BRIDGE

CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

other party acquiring an interest pendente lite. It is no defence
to the debt that the creditor has become a bankrupt ; and if an
assignee, after notice, permits a pending suit to proceed in the
name of the bankrupt for its recovery, he is bound by any judgment that may be rendered. This is a sufficient protection for
the debtor.
The motion to dismiss is denied, but that to affirm
Granted.

BRIDGE COMPANY v.

UNITED

STATES.

1. Congress, in the exercise of its power over the navigable waters of the United
States, which is derived from the commerce clause of the Constitution, gave,
by resolution (is/ca, p. 473), its assent that a bridge across the Ohio at Cincinnati might be constructed in accordance with the terms of a charter conferred by State laws; but in case the free navigation of the river should at
any time be substantially and materially obstructed by the contemplated
bridge, the right to withdraw such assent, or to direct the necessary modifications and alterations, was reserved. While the bridge was erecting, in
compliance with the provisions of law, Congress, by statute (i/i-a, p. 473),
declared that it should be unlawful to proceed therewith, unless certain
specified changes should be made. The company made them, and coinpleted the bridge according to the altered plan.
HIld, 1. That in view of
the legislation of Congress the resolution is the paramount law by which
the rights involved are to be deterinined, and that the company, by accepting its provisions, became subject to all the limitations and reservations of
power which Congress deemed fit to impose. 2. That the withdrawal by
Congress of its assent is, for the purposes of this case, equivalent to a positive enactment that, notwithstanding State legislation, the further maintenance of the bridge according to the plan first prescribed was unlawful.
3. That Congress, by requiring changes and modifications to which the
company conformed, incurred no liability to the latter.
2. Congress could withdraw its assent whenever it determined that in regard to
the construction of the bridge other requirements than those originally
prescribed were essential to secure due protection to the navigation of the
river.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
On the 5th of Febrttary, 1868, the General Assembly of
Kentucky passed an act to incorporate the Newport and Cin-

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE

CO. V. UNITED STATES.

cinnati Bridge Company, with power to build a bridge across
the Ohio River between Newport and Cincinnati. This charter provided " that the said bridge shall be constructed so as
not to obstruct the navigation of the Ohio River further than
the laws of the United States authorize."
On the 3d of April, in the same year, the General As.sembly of Ohio enacted a statute authorizing the creation
and organization of corporations to build bridges across the
same river.
This act, in order that the bridges to be built
might not obstruct navigation, provided that they should
be erected "in accordance with the provisions of an act
of Congress approved July 14, 1862, entitled 'An Act to
establish certain post-roads,' or of any act that Congress may
hereafter pass on the same subject." Its eleventh section is
as follows: " SE CT. 11. That any such company may fix or change the span
and altitude of any bridge which it may erect and construct across
the Ohio River: ]Provided, that the span of any such bridge be not
less than three hundred feet in the clear over the main channel,
and not less than two hundred and twenty feet in the clear in one
of the next adjoining spans, and the height of the bridge in the
centre of the span over the main channel shall not be less than
one hundred feet above the surface of the water at low water,
measuring for such elevation to the bottom chord of the bridge,
and such height above extreme high-water mark as may be provided in any act of Congress now in force, or which may hercafter
be passed ; but this section shall not apply to any bridge built with
a draw, in accordance with the provision of an act of Conaress
approved July 14, 1862, entitled ' An Act to establish certain postroads,' or any act that Congress may hereafter pass upon the
subject."

On the same day this act was passed, the Newport and Cincinnati Bridge Company was organized under it in Ohio to
build a bridge between Cincinnati and Newport. Afterwards,
on the 16th of April, 1868, the Kentucky and Ohio companies,
pursuant to provisions in their respective charters, were consolidated, and became one corporation, with the general powers
which the divisional companies originally possessed.

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

The material provisions of the act of July 14, 1862, c. 167,
entitled " An Act to establish certain post-roads " (12 Stat.
569), are as follows :
" SECT. 3. And be it ,further enacted, that it shall be lawihl
for any other railroad company or companies whose line or lines
of road may now or shall hereafter be built to the Ohio River
above the mouth of the Big Sandy River, in accordance with the
terms of the charter or charters of such company or companies, to
build a bridge across said river for the more perfect connection of
any such roads, and for the passage of trains thereof, under the
limitations and conditions hereafter provided.
" SECT. 4. And be it frtther enacted, that any bridge erected
under the privileges of this act may, at the option of the company
or companies building the same, be built either as a drawbridge,
with a pivot or other form of draw, or with unbroken or continuous spans: Provided, that if the said bridge shall be made with
unbroken and continuous spans, it shall not be of less elevation
than ninety feet above low-water mark over the channel of the said
river, nor in any case less than forty feet above extreme'iigh
water, as understood at the point of location, measuring for such
elevation to the bottom chord of the bridge. Nor shall the span of
such bridge covering the main channel of the river be less tian
three hundred feet in length, with also one of the next adjoining
spans of not less than two hundred and twenty feet in length, and
the piers of said bridge shall be parallel with the current of the
river as near as practicable: And provided also, that if qny
bridge built under this act shall be constructed as a drawbridge,
the same shall be constructed with a span over the main channel of the river, as understood at the time of the erection of the
bridge, of' not less than three hundred feet in length, and said
span shall not be less than seventy feet above low-water mark,
measuring to the bottom chord of the bridge, and one of the next
adjoining spans shall not be less than two hundred and twenty feet
in length ; aind also that there shall be a pivot draw constructed in
every such bridge at an accessible and navigable point, with s)ans
of not less than one hundred feet in length on each side of the
central or first pier of the draw : And provided also, that said
draw shall always be opened promptly, upon reasonable signal, for
the passage of boats whose construction may not, at the time, admit
of their passing under the permanent spans of said bridge, except
that said draw shall not be required to be opened when engines or

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED STATES.

trains are passing over said bridge, or when passenger trains are
due; but in no ease shall unnecessary delay occur in the opening
of said draw after the passage of said engines or trains."
On the 3d of March, 1869, Congress passed a resolution
entitled " A resolution giving the assent of the United States
to the construction of the Newport and Cincinnati bridge." 15
Stat. 347. It is as follows: esolved by the Senate and Ihouse of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, that the consent
of Congress be, and the same is hereby, given to the erection of a
bridge over the Ohio River fiom the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, to
the city of Newport, Kentucky, by the Newport and Cincinnati
Bridge Company, a corporation chartered and organized under the
laws of each of the States of Kentucky and Ohio: Jrovided, that
said bridge is built with ai unbroken or continuous span of not
less than four hundred feet in the clear, from pier to pier, over the
main channel of the river, and is built in all other respects in
accordance with the conditions and limitations of an act entitled
An Act to establish certain post-roads,' approved July foturteenth,
eighteen hundred and sixty-two. That said bridge, when completed in the manner specified in this resolution, shall be deemed
and taken to be a legal structure, and shall be a post-road for the
transmission of the mails of the United States ; but Congress reserves the right to withdraw the assent hereby given in ease the
fiee navigation of said river shall at any time be substantially aind
materially obstructed by any bridge to be erected under the authority of this resolution, or to direct the necessary modifications
and alterations of said bridge."
After the passage of this resolution, the consolidated company
began the erection of a drawbridge with a pivot draw, and
expended a large amount of money in the undertaking, btt
before it was completed, Congress passed the act of March 3,
1871, c. 121, the fifth section of which (16 id. 572) is as follows:
" SECT. 5. That it shall be unlawihl for the Newport and Cincimnnati Bridge Company, or any other company or person, to proceed in the erection of the bridge now being constructed over the
Ohio River, from the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, to the city of Newport, Kentucky, and the approaches thereto, unless the said bridge
shall be so constructed that the channel span of four hundred feet,
as now located, shall have under said span a clear headway at low

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

water, of one hundred feet below any point of said channel span,
and in such case no draw shall be required in said bridge; all the
other spans of said bridge, which cover the Ohio River to lowwater mark, shall have a clear headway of not less than seventy
feet above low-water mark; and the ot'her spans of the said bridge,
extending to each shore, may be made of less elevation than seventy
feet above low-water mark, to accommodate a regular grade for the
approaches to said bridge. And when the fbregoing requirements
shall have been complied with by the said Newport and Cincinnati
Bridge Company, the location of said bridge, its structures and
approaches, shall thereupon be deemed to be legalized, and declared
to be lawful structures, and shall be recognized and known as a
post-route. The plans for changes in such bridge made necessary
by this act shall be submitted by said company to the Secretary of
War for his approval. And in the event of the bridge company
making the changes provided for in this act, it shall be lawful for
the said company, after they shall have made the changes in said
bridge, and the approaches thereto, as herein provided, to file their
bill in equity, against the United States in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Ohio, and full jurisdiction
is hereby conferred upon said court to determine: First, whether
the bridge, according to the plans on which it has progressed, at
the passage of this act, has been constructed so as substantially to
comply with the provisions of law relating thereto ; and, second,
the liability of the United States, if any there be, to the said company, by reason of the changes by this act required to be made, and
if the said court shall determine that the United States is so liable,
and that said bridge was so being built, then the said court shall
further ascertain and determine the amount of the actual and
necessary cost and expenditures reasonably required to be incurred
in making the changes in the said bridge and its approaches, as
hereby authorized or required, in excess of the cost of building said
bridge and approaches according to the plan proposed before the
changes required by this act to be made. And the said court is
hereby further authorized and required to proceed therein to final
decree, as in other cases in equity. And it shall be lawful for
either party to the said suit to appeal from the final decree of the
said Circuit Court to the Supreme Court of the United States, as in
other cases, and the Supreme Court shall thereupon proceed to
hear and determine the said case, and make a final decree therein ;
and thereupon, if such decree shall be in ftvor of said company,
the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States shall, oat of aiy

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE

CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

moneys in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, pay to the said
company such sum of money as shall by the said Supreme Com't
be so decreed to be paid to the said company: Provided,nevertheless, that no money shall be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury
to the said company until the Supreme Court of the United States,
upon appeal taken as aforesaid, shall render a final decree in the
case in favor of said company."
The company promptly yielded to these new requirements,
and, having completed its bridge on the altered plan, brought
in the court below this suit in equity against the United States
to recover the increased cost. After hearing, the court dismissed the bill, and from that decree this appeal was taken.
Mr. William Xll Ramsey for the appellant.
Tlh]eAttorney-General and the Solicitor-General for the
United States.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question which presents itself is, whether, on
the face of the several acts of Congress, any liability rests on
the United States to pay the bridge company the cost of the
change that was directed in the plan of its bridge. It cannot
be denied that but for the act of 1871 a bridge built according
to the original plan would have been a lawful structure which
the company could have maintained until Congress withdrew
its assent, or required alterations to be made. The paramount
power of regulating bridges that affect the navigation of the
navigable waters of the United Stafes is in Congress. It comes
from the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and
Willson v. Black Bird Creec Marsh Co.,
among the States.
2 Pet. 245 ; State of Pennsylvania v. Wheeling, c.Bridge Co.,
18 How. 421; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713; The Clinton Bridge, 10 id. 454; Railroad Company v. Fuller, 17 id.
560; Pound v. Turek, 95 U. S. 459; Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96
id. 379. That the Ohio is one of the navigable rivers of the
United States must be conceded. It forms a boundary of six
States, and the commerce upon its waters is very large.
No question can arise in this case upon what the States have
done, for both Ohio and Kentucky required the company to

BRIDGE

CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

comply with the regulations of Congress. Neither are we
called on to determine what would have been the rights of the
company if in the original license no power of future control
by Congress bad been reserved. The resolution on which
the company relies contains this distinct provision " But
Congress reserves the right to withdraw the assent hereby
given in ease the free navigation of said river shall at any time
be substantially and materially obstructed by any bridge to be
erected under the authority of this resolution, or to direct the
necessary modifications and alterations of said bridge." An
examination of the legislation of Congress in reference to the
bridging of streams shows this to have been at that time a new
provision. It had appeared but once before, and then in the
act of Feb. 19, 1869, c. 37 (15 Stat. 272), passed at the same
session of Congress, authorizing a bridge across the Conneeticut at Middletown.
The first enactment by Congress on this general subject is
found in sects. 6 and 7 of the act of Aug. 31, 1852, c. 111, making appropriations for the Post-Office Department (10 Stat.
112), which declared the bridge across the Ohio at Wheeling
then existing to be a lawful structure. This act simply gave
the bridge company leave to maintain a bridge already built,
and reserved no power of future control. Next followed, ten
years after, the act of July 14, 1862, e. 167 (12 id. 569),
which legalized a bridge then in the course of construction
across the Ohio at Steubenville, and contained the general provisions as to bridging the Ohio above the mouth of the Big
Sandy, referred to in the resolution of March 3, 1869. In
this act, also, there Was no reservation of power by Congress.
The next was the act of Feb. 17, 1.865, c. 38 (13 id. 431),
by which the act of July 14, 1862, was amended so as to
authorize the erection of a bridge across the Ohio at Louisville.
In tiis, too, there was no reservation of power, but specific
directions were given as to the height of the bridge, the number and location of draws, and the length of spans, and it was
expressly provided that all should be so constructed as not to
interrupt navigation. The same day another act was passed,
e. 39 (id. 431). by which a bridge across the Ohio between
Cincinnati and Covington, then being built in accordance with

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED STATES.

the laws of Ohio and Kentucky, was declared to be a lawful
structure, and no power reserved. There was no further legislation of this character until the act of July 25, 1866, c. 246
(14 Stat. 244), which authorized eight bridges across the
Mississippi at and above St. Louis, and one across the Missouri. This act provided that, " in case of any litigation arising from any obstruction or alleged obstruction to the free
navigation of said river, the cause may be tried before the District Court of the United States of any State in which any portion of said obstruction or bridge touches ; " and sect. 13 was as
follows: " That the right to alter or amend this act, so as to prevent or remove all material obstructions to the navigation of
said river by the construction of bridges, is hereby expressly
reserved." The act of Feb. 27, 1867, c. 98 (14 id. 412),
legalized the Clinton bridge across the Mississippi, and by the
act of Feb. 21, 1868, c. 10 (15 id. 37), the act of July 25,
1866, was extended so as to include a bridge over the Mississippi at La Crosse. By the act of July 6, 1868, c. 134 (id.
82), a bridge across Black River in Ohio was authorized.
Afterwards, by the act of July 20, 1868, c. 179 (id. 121), two
other bridges were authorized across the Missouri. In all
these acts the power of alteration and amendment was reserved
in the exact language employed in the act of 1866.
This brings the history of congressional legislation on the
subject of bridging the public waters of the United States down
to the session of Congress when the resolution in favor of the
Newport and Cincinnati Bridge Company was passed, and when,
as has already been seen, the peculiar form of reservation which
appears in that resolution was for the first time introduced.
Two licenses were granted at that session, - one by the act of
Feb. 19, 1869, c. 37 (id. 272), to cross the Connecticut, and
the other by the resolution now in question, and both contained this reservation. On the same day the resolution was
adopted Congress passed the act of March 3, 1869, c. 139 (id.
336), to legalize the bridge across the East River, between New
York and Brooklyn, in which " power at any time to alter,
amend, or repeal" was in express terms and without any
limitation reserved.
From this it seems to us clear that the peculiar language of

BRIDGE

CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

the reservation now in question was intended to have a special
signification. It had been considered enough before to provide
that, " to prevent or remove all material obstructions to navigation," the "right to alter or amend," expressed in the usual
form, be reserved. But when power was given to build below
the Big Sandy a bridge such as had before only been built
above, it was deemed expedient, in the interest of commerce,
to be more specific, and by reserving the power to withdraw
the assent of Congress to what might prove to be an obstruction to navigation, to imply at least a reservation of power to
make that fiulawful which, while the assent continued, would
be lawful. That this is what was intended by the language
used may fairly be inferred from earlier legislation on the same
general subject. Thus, as early as by the act of March 2, 1805,
c. 30 (2 Stat. 330), Congress, in authorizing the grant of leave
to a bridge company to build a bridge across a mill-pond and
marsh in the navy-yard at Brooklyn, N. Y., provided, "that
if at any future time it shall appear to the President of the
United States that the property of the United States is injured
by such bridge, he may revoke the permission granted by him
for erecting the same." Afterwards, by the act of March 3, 1855,
c. 198 (10 id. 675, 680), the Secretary of the Navy was authorized to permit another bridge company to connect its bridge
with the navy-yard at Kittery, Me., and to have a right of way
through the yard to the bridge, but it was provided that the
bridge and the right of way might be discontinued at any time
by the Secretary. It surely could not be claimed that if, under
the power reserved in these cases, the President had revoked
the permission given in respect to the bridge at the Brooklyn
yard, or the Secretary had discontinued that at Kittery, the
United States would be either legally or morally bound to make
good the loss sustained by the companies, or either of them, on
that account. And the reason is, that the language in which
the power reserved was expressed clearly implied that all the
risks of revocation and discontinuance were to be assumed by
those to whom the grants thus limited were made. So here,
in assenting to an untried experiment, and one which might
prove to be materially detrimental to the navigation of an inportant stream, Congress thought proper to reserve the right to

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE Co. v. UNITED STATES.

withdraw its assent, - revoke its p~rmission, - if what might
possibly happen should, in fact, come as the consequence of
the new authority which was granted. To " withdraw assent "
is the same as to "1revoke permission," and what would be implied from one form of expression will be, under like circumstances, from the other. It is true, in the case of the navy-yards,
Congress had absolute jurisdiction, and the States were excluded
altogether. But the power of Congress in respect to legislation
for the preservation of inter-state commerce is just as free from
State interference as any other subject within the sphere of its
legislative authority. The action of Congress is supreme, and
overrides all that the States may do. When, therefore, Congress in a proper way declares a bridge across a navigable river
of the United States to be an unlawful structure, no legislation
of a State can make it lawful. Those who act on State authority alone necessarily assume all the risks of legitimate congressional interference. In the present case, both the Ohio and
Kentucky divisional companies were, by express provisions in
their respective charters, subjected to this paramount controlling power. The consolidated company was, therefore, prohibited from obstructing navigation more than the laws of the
United States authorized, and was required to build its bridge
in accordance with the provisions of the act of 1862, or any
other law that Congress might thereafter pass on the subject.
Hence the resolution of 1869 became, by the operation of both
congressional and State enactments, the law on which the rights
of the company depend. It was the paramount license for the
erection and maintenance of the bridge; and the company, by
accepting its provisions, became subject to all the limitations
and reservations of power which Congress saw fit to impose.
From this we conclude that the withdrawal by Congress of
its assent to the maintenance of the bridge, when properly
made, is, for all the purposes of this case, equivalent to a positive enactment that from the time of such withdrawal the
further maintenance of the bridge shall be unlawful, notwithstanding the legislation of the several States upon the subject.
If modifications are directed, assent is, in legal effect, withdrawn, unless the required changes are made.
It is contended, however, that under the terms of the reser-

BRIDGE

CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

[.
[Sup.

Ct.

vation the assent of Congress could not be withdrawn until it
had been in some way judicially ascertained that the bridge,
as authorized, either did in fact, or would if built, substantially and materially obstruct free navigation. Such, we think,
is not the fair meaning of the language employed. In State of
Pennsylvaniav. The TV eelinq, &e. Bridge Co. (13 How. 518), it
was judicially settled in this court that a bridge as constructed

did illegally interfere with navigation'; but when afterwards
Congress, in the exercise of its constitutional authority to regulate commerce, legalized the structure by a legislative enactment, the court held (18 How. 421) that this act of legislative
power removed the objection to the further continuance of the
bridge, because, in the opinion of the legislative department of
the government, the obstruction which had been erected was no
more than those interested in navigation should submit to for
the general good. It is to be observed that the question now
under consideration is not whether the bridge company has
failed to comply with the requirements of the resolution, but
whether those requirements are all that the due protection of
free navigation demands. The first is undoubtedly a proper
subject for judicial inquiry, but the last, as we think, belongs
to the legislature. Congress, which alone exercises the legislative power of the government, is the constitutional protector
of foreign and inter-state commerce. Its supervision of this
subject is continuing in its nature, and all grants of special
privileges, affecting so important a branch of governmental
power, ought certainly to be strictly construed. Nothing will
be presumned to have been surrendered unless it was manifestly
so intended. Every doubt should be resolved in favor of the
government. As Congress can exercise legislative power only,
all its reservations of power, connected with grants that are
made, must necessarily be legislative in their character. In
the present case the reservation is of power to withdraw the

assent which was given, and to direct the necessary modifications and alterations. This was to be done in case the free
navigation of the river should at any time be substantially and
materially obstructed under the authority which was granted.
It was originally a proper subject of legislative inquiry whether
the resolution made sufficient provision for the protection of

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE: CO. v. UNIrED

xTA'rS.

commerce. There is nothing to indicate that any different
inquiry was to be instituted to determine whlbether the assent
that had been given should be withdrawn, and as the withdrawal involved an act legislative in its character, the necessary
presumption is that the inquiry on which it was to be predicated
would be legislative also. No provision is made for instituting
proceedings to have the question determined judicially, and
even if the courts should determine that the bridge (lid substantially and materially obstruct navigation, Congress could
not be compelled to withdraw its assent to the further continuance of the structure. This is evident from the J1Vlreliaq
Bridge Case, where, as has been seen, congressional assent to
a substantial obstruction was recognized as suffleient to prevent
the execution of a decree of this court requiring the abatement
of what, but for this asseint, would have been, in the judgment
of the court, a public nuisance. The xwithdrawal of assent,
therefore, has been left to depend on the judgment of Congress
in the exercise of its legislative discretion. For this purpose
Congress must make its own inquiries, and determine for itself
whether the obstruction that has been authorized is so material
and so substantial as to justify, under all the circumstances of
the case, an exercise of the power which was reserved as a
condition of the original grant made.
It is next insisted that if in the judgment of Congress the
public good required the bridge to be removed, or alterations
to be made in its structure, just compensation must be made
the company for the loss incurred by what was directed. It is
true that one cannot be deprived of his property without due
process of law, and that private property cannot be taken for
public use without just compensation. In the present case the
bridge company asked of Congress permission to erect its
bridge. In response to this request permission was given, but
only on condition that it might be revoked at any time if the
bridge was found to be detrimental to navigation. This condition was an essential element of the grant, and the company
in accepting the privileges conferred by the grant assumed all
risks of loss arising from any exercise of the power which Congress saw fit to reserve. What the company got from Congress was the grant o a franchise, expressly made defeasible ,t
voL, xv.

31

BRIDEu CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

will, to maintain a bridge across one of the great highways of
commerce. This franchise was a species of property, but from
the moment of its origin its continued existence was dependent
on the will of Congress, and this was declared in express terms
on the face of the grant by which it was created. In the use
of the franchise thus granted, the company might, and it was
expected would, acquire property. The property thus acquired
Congress could not appropriate to itself by a withdrawal of its
assent to the maintenance of the bridge that was to be built,
but the franchise, by express agreement, was revocable whenever in the judgment of Congress it could not be used without
substantial and material detriment to the interest of navigation.
A withdrawal of the franchise might render property acquired
on the faith of it, and to be us ed in connection with it, less

valuable ; but that was a risk which the company voluntarily
assumed when it expended its money under the limited license
which alone Congress was willing to give. It was optional
with the company to accept or not what was granted, but having accepted, it must submit to the control which Congress, in
the legitimate exercise of the power that was reserved, may
deem it necessary for the common good to insist upon.
We are aware that this is a power which may be abused,
but it is one Congress saw fit to reserve. For protection
against unjust or unwise legislation, within the limits of recog-

nized legislative power, the people must look to the polls and
not to the courts. It would be an abuse of judicial power for
the courts to attempt to interfere with the constitutional discretion of the legislature.
What has been done seems to have been with due regard to
the rights of all concerned. The Constitution made it the
duty of Congress to protect all commerce which extends beyond State lines against obstruction by or under the authority
of the States. Two States had been applied to for leave to
bridge an important national river. They gave the leave, but
made it subject to the constitutional control of Congress.
Congress, when applied to, assented to what was wanted, but
in express terms reserved to itself the power to revoke what
had been done, or require alterations to be made, in case experience proved that the structure which was to be put up

Oct. 1881.]

BIUDGE

CO. v.

UNITED

STATES.

substantially and materially interfered with navigation. Under this authority work was at once begun. The next year,
by the act of July 10, 1870, c. 240, sect. 5 (16 Stat. 227),
making large appropriations for the improvement of rivers
and harbors, the Secretary of War was required to detail three
engineers to examine all the bridges erected or in the process
of erection across the Ohio, and report to the next Congress
whether, in their opinion, such bridges, or any of them, as
constructed or proposed to be Constructed, did or would interfere with free and safe navigation ; and if they did or would so
interfere, to report what extent of space and elevation above
water would be required to prevent obstruction, and an estimate of the cost of changing the bridges built, and in the process of building, so as to conform to what was recommended.
At the next session the act was passed which required the
Newport and Cincinnati Company to alter its bridge, and
allowed this suit to be brought for the purpose of determining
whether any liability for pecuniary damages had been incurred
by the United States to the company for what was done. In
this way Congress recognized fully the obligation resting on
every government, when it is guilty of a wrong, to make reparation. Exemption from suit does not necessarily imply
exemption from liability. Here Congress gave the courts
jurisdiction to determine whether a wrong had been done,
and, if so, to award compensation in money by the payment of
the cost of what had been improperly required. In our opinion Congress did no more than it was authorized to do, and
there is no liability resting on the United States to answer in
damages.
It is next insisted that by the terms of the statute authorizing the suit the liability of the United States is established,
if it shall be determined that the bridge, as far as it had progressed, was " constructed so as to substantially comply with
the provisions of law relating thereto." We do not so understand the statute. The language is as follows: " Full jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon said court to determine: first,
whether the hridge, according to the plans on which it has progressed, at the passage of this act, has been constructed so as
substantially to comply with the provisions of law relating

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sul). Ct.

thereto; and, second, the liability of the United States, if any
there be, to the said company, by reason of the changes by
this act required to be made, and if the said court shall determine that the United States is so liable, and that said bridge
was so being built, then the said court shall further ascertain
and determine the amount of the actual and necessary cost and
expenditures," &c.
The rule of damages has been fixed by the statute. As to
that the court has no discretion*beyond ascertaining the excess
of cost. But before damages can be given, it must appear
both that the United States was, in law, liable, and that the
bridge had been constructed in accordance with the requirements of the law, down to the time the change of plan was
directed. That the liability of the United States was not
made to depend entirely on the fact that the law in respect to
the form of the structure had been complied with is apparent,
because if such had been the intention of Congress it would
have been entirely unnecessary to submit the second question
for determination. But the second is as clearly submitted as
the first. Damages are not to be given if either is found in
favor of the United States. No matter whether the United
States was, in law, liable or not, if the bridge had not been
constructed so as substantially to comply with the law, there
could be no recovery. That is expressly declared. If, however, it had been properly built, the determination of the
question of legal liability became important, and that, in our
opinion, depended entirely on the right of Congress, under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, to require the
change without making just compensation in money.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS

did not sit in this case, nor take

any part in deciding it.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, MR. JUSTICE FIELD,

and MR. Jus-

'rIcE BRADLEY dissented.
I dissent from the decree of tile
as
I
cannot agree to all the grounds On
court in this case, and
which my brother Field dissents, I will state very briefly the
MR. JUSTICE MILLER.

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE

CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

reasons which have seemed to me to require the reversal of the
decree of the Circuit Court.
Congress gave its assent in the most solemn form, by the
resolution of 1869, to the erection of a bridge over the Ohio
River by the appellant company, the character of which was
described in the resolution. It reserved the right to withdraw
the assent thus given in case the free navigation of the river
should at any time be substantially and materially obstructed
by any bridge to be erected under the authority of this resolution, or to direct necessary modifications and alterations of said
bridge. The Circuit Court finds that up to the third day of
March, 1871, the bridge company had proceeded in the erection
of their bridge, " in all respects constructing the same so as
substantially to comply with the provisions of the law relating
thereto."
On that day Congress passed the act under which this suit is
brought; and it is upon the construction of this act in connection with the resolution of 1869 that the decision of this case
must turn.
It will be observed that the resolution reserved to Congress a right to interfere and assert its power only in case the
bridge of the appellant should at any time sulstantially and
materially obstruct the free navigation of the river; 'and, in
that event, the reservation was that Congress might withdraw
the assent so given to the erection of the bridge, or direct the
necessary modifications and alterations of said bridge. It is
not necessary to inquire whether Congress could do both these
things or not, for it did not, as I understand the language of
the act of March 3, 1871, c. 121, withdraw or intend to withdraw its assent previously given.
It did exercise the alternative power given by the joint resolution, and "direct the necessary modifications and alterations
of said bridge."
The legislation by which this is done is the fifth and last
section of an act making appropriations for the service of the
Post-Office Department.
It is important to observe that it contains no declaration
that the bridge, as then constructed or in process of construction,
would either partially or substantially obstruct the navigation

BRIDGE CO. v. UNITEID STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

of the Ohio River, nor does this court base its decree on the
existence of that fact. Nor do counsel in the argument before
us insist that this was proved, or that it was a necessary condition to the exercise of the power which Congress assumed in
passing the statute requiring alterations in construction of the
bridge, costing over $200,000.
Why did not Congress declare as a reason for the exercise
of this power that the bridge as originally authorized by it
was or would be an obstruction to navigation ? and why did it
not content itself with making that declaration and withdrawing its assent, as it would then have a right to do?
The best answer to this question, the most reasonable one
to be made, and the one most consistent with the evidence
in this record, is that either the fact did not exist, or was
not so apparent, that Congress was willing to found any action
on it.
But Congress, with this view of that question, and entertaining also a just view of its powers and obligations as regards the
appellant and the bridge, determined to exercise such power as
it had, for the purpose of changing the structure from a drawbridge, to a bridge so high above the water that no draw was
necessary.
It dfd this; but in the same section which prescribed this
change and forbade the company to proceed in any other mode
of construction, it provided equitable relief for the injury
which this somewhat arbitrary act of power inflicted on the
Bridge Company.
I repeat that it was competent for Congress to have declared
that the bridge, as it was in process of construction, had proved
to be a substantial and material obstruction to the free navigation of the river, and for that reason the assent of Congress to
its erection was withdrawn. Or that it would be such an obstruction unless certain modifications of the plan were made,
which Congress could prescribe, and require them to be made.
But it did neither. It based no action on the assumption that
the bridge was or would be an obstruction to navigation; but
it determined to change the bridge from a low bridge with a
draw, to a high bridge without a draw. The difference in
these two is well known to every one who. has travelled over

Oct. 1881.]

BIDGE Co.

v. UNITED STATES.

our Western rivers, and I myself am familiar wilth no less than
ten drawbridges across the Mississippi built under acts of
Congress, which are not substantial or material obstructions to
the navigation of that great river.
Congress, therefore, never intended to act on the reservation
contained in the resolution. No reference is made to that
resolution in the act of 1871 requiring this total change of
plan.
Nothing is more reasonable, therefore, than that Congress,

resortino to its high prerogative of requiring a structure which
would not only be no ubstantial or viaterial obstruction to
navigation, -words well understood, - but one which would
impose no delay in passing it, nr-1interfere in the slightest
possible manner with navigation, should see that equity and
jusLice required compensation for the loss inflicted by this
change.
It did see this, and provided for the situation. Until the
structure was completed, no one could tell the cost of the
changes required. When completed, the safest tribunal, as
Congress thought, to determine this was a court. And that
the court might not be restricted by the rigid rules of a court
of law, it referred the matter to a court of equity, with instructions to proceed as in other cases in equity. It required the
court to determine " the actual and necessary costs and expenditures reasonably required to be incurred in making the
changes ordered," and it instructed the Secretary of the Treasury to pay the amount so found.
It required the court to ascertain, " first, whether the bridge,
according to the plans on which it has progressed at the passage of this act, has been constructed so as to substantially
comply with provisions of law relating thereto." The court
found that the bridge was in conformity to law, including, of
course, the joint resolution giving the assent of Congress.
" Second, the liability, if any there be, of the United States to
said company by reason of the changes by this .act required."
The whole argument of the opinion of the court is founded
on the potentiality of this, " if any there be." And the whole
scheme and purpose of the joint resolution, its assent with
qualified power of w ithdraNwal, the failure of Congress to

BRIDGE Co. v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

declare the existence of the condition on which this right of
withdrawal was to be exercised, the fact that the law required
the court to find whether the appellant had proceeded according to law, and that the court found it had so proceeded;
the great loss which the appellant was compelled to bear, and
the reference of the whole matter to a court of equity, are all
ignored, that we may throw ourselves back on the general and
absolute power of Congress, over navigable waters, to defeat
this eminently just claim for losses, growing out of the exercise
of that power. It is impossible for ne to believe that Congress
went through all this tedious legal machinery to have the court
decide upon its riq]ht to exercise such a power without responsibility. It is not the habit of that body to refer intentionally
the question of its constitutional power to the courts of the
country.
Nor is such construction of the words "if any there be " necessary. There were two contingencies in which Congress
might have acted, as it did, without incurring any just obligation to make compensation. One of these was that the
bridge might not have been built in conformity to the terms
of the joint resolution, and in that event the company was
in no condition to complain of the action of Congress requiring a change. The act required this fact to be ascertained by the court, and it evidently meant that no damages
should be awarded unless it was found that the law was complied with.
Congress might, also, while declining to ascertain for itself
whether the bridge, as authorized, was likely to prove a substantial and material obstruction to navigation, have made
compensation for the change they ordered to depend upon the
existence or non-existence of that fact, and left it to the courtto determine.
This court refuses to inquire into this latter question, and
notwithstanding the fact, which the court was expressly required to find, is found in favor of the appellant, it proceeds on
what I think is a fallacious view of the statute, namely, that
Congress intended to refer to the court the question of its constitutional power to change the character of the bridge, alnd it
decides in favor of that power, thus disregarding the whole

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED

STATIN.

structure of the two acts on which the right to compensation
is based.
I think Congress intended to waive that question, and in
favor of justice and fair dealing to pay for the losses incurred
under the yery aet which gave the compensation, if it was
found that the bridge, as far as it had progressed, was in conformity to law, and would not be a substantial and material
obstruction to navigation if completed on that plan.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD. I am not able to agree with the majority of the court in their judgment in this case, nor in the
reasons assigned for it. Their opinion proceeds upon a theory
of the power of Congress over bridges crossing navigable waters
to which I cannot assent. Its power to authorize the construetion of such bridges not being conferred in express terms by
the Constitution, must, if it exist, be deduced from the power
to regulate commnerce with foreign nations and among the several States. This latter power authorizes Congress to prescribe
rules by which commerce in its various forms may be conducted
between our people and those of other countries, and between
the people of different States; and also to adopt measures to
facilitate and increase it. When the Constitution wvas adopted,
commerce with foreign nations and even between the several
States was carried on principally by means of vessels. Its regulation, therefore, required such control over our harbors, bays,
and navigable streams connecting them or different States, as
might be necessary to keep navigation free from unnecessary
obstructions; and might legitimately extend to making such
improvements as would facilitate the passage of vessels, render
their anchorage safe, and expedite the discharge of their cargoes and the landing of their passengers and crews. To this
extent its power over navigable waters goes, under the commercial clause; no further. Unless, therefore, the free navigation of the public waters is impeded by what a State may
do or permit, Congress cannot interfere with its action. And
what is meant by their free navigation I shall hereafter explain. The doctrine of a paramount power in Congress over
bridges crossing navigable streams -either to authorize their
construction, or regulate them, that is, control them when con-

BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

structed - derives no support from its power to protect the free
navigation of such streams. If a bridge, for example, built
under the law of a State, should cross a navigable stream, at so
high a point, and in such a way, as in no manner to obstruct
its free navigation, Congress could not interfere with the structure. Its permission would not authorize the building, nor its
command authorize the removal, of the bridge. And while
Congress may declare that bridges of particular height and
dimensions shall not be deemed an obstruction to the free navigation of the streams, it cannot interfere with bridges of a
different size and character, unless they prove to be an impediment to such navigation.
Of course, should Congress undertake the construction of a
road for the postal service, or other national purposes, it might
authorize the erection of a bridge over navigable streams, to
connect the road on opposite sides. But it is not of such
works, or of bridges connecting them, that we are speaking;
but of bridges built under the law of a State, and of the power
which Congress has to interfere with and control them.
This view of the limits of the power of Congress will be
inore clearly apparent, if we consider it in connection with the
construction of docks, wharves, and piers. Some of our bays
and harbors are miles in width. Such is the size of the bays
of New York and of San Francisco; and some of the streams
upon which piers and wharves are built, like the Mississippi
and the Hudson, are over a mile in width. The several States
own the soils under tide-waters within their limits. Speaking
on this subject with reference to lands under the tide-waters of
the bay of San Francisco, this court said: " Upon the admission
of California into the Union upon equal footing with the original States, absolute property in, and dominion and sovereignty
over, all soils under the tide-waters within her limits passed to
the State, with the consequent right to dispose of the title to
any part of said soils in such manner as she might deem proper,
subject only to the paramount right of navigation over the
waters, so far as such navigation might be required by the
necessities of commerce with foreign nations or among the sevoral States, the regulation of which was vested in the general
Weber v. Jlarbor oinmissioners, 18 Wall. 57.
governinent."

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED STATE-;.

The same doctrine was previously asserted in Pollard's Lessee
v. R-agan, 3 How. 212; in Mlartin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367 : in
Munford v. Wardwell, 6 Wall. 423, 436; and subsequently in
Mc(Cready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 891. Tie State of California,
exercising her right of disposition of such soils, granted in 1851
to the city of San Francisco a large tract of land covered by
the tide-waters of the bay ; and since then the tract has been
filled up, and wharves, piers, streets, and blocks of buildings of
the most permanent and costly character have been constructed
upon it. The bay being miles in width, its free navigation is
in no way impeded by the new blocks of buildings and streets,
where vessels once floated and cargoes were discharged.
Now, the control of Congress over the bay is as complete
and unrestricted as over the navigable streams of the State.
Could it in the exercise of its commercial power, that is, in its
control over navigation, direct the destruction of the wharves,
the buildings, and streets, which have been built where, in
1850, the tide-waters of the bay flowed ? I doubt whether
any jurist could be found who would hazard his reputation by
giving an affirmative answer. And why not? Simply because until the free navigation of the bay for purposes of commerce is impeded, Congress has no power to interfere with the
buildings and wharves constructed.
There are wharves and piers constructed, under State authority, at New York City, where the waters of the Hudson
once flowed. There are wharves and piers in all our bays and
harbors which are built in their waters. But as these structures do not interfere with the free navigation of the river in
the one case, nor of the bays and harbors in the other cases,
no judge or jurist has evor ventured to assert a power in Congress to order their removal at its pleasure; and simply because the right of interference on its part does not arise until
the free navigation of the waters is obstructed. On what possible ground, then, can Congress order the removal of bridges
built over navigable streams, under authority of the States,
when they do not interfere with the free navigation of the
streams? With the most careful consideration I can give to
the subject I am unable to find any. To me it seems clear
that no such arbitrary power exists.

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

The power of the State over its internal commerce must also
be considered in treating of this subject. While the Constitution vests in Congress the power to regulate commerce
among the several States, it leaves with each the regulation of
its internal commerce. " Comprehensive," says Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, " as the word ' among' is, it may be very properly
restricted to that commerce which concerns more States than
one," and." the completely internal commerce of a State, then,
may be considered as reserved for the State itself." Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 195. The jurisdiction of the State over
the navigable waters within its limits, so far as may be necessary for the regulation of its internal commerce, is as complete
as the jurisdiction of Congress over them for the regulation of
inter-state or foreign commerce. On this subject we said, in
County qf Mobile v. Kimball : " The States have as full control
over their purely internal commerce as Congress has over conmerce among the several States and with foreign nations ; and
to promote the growth of that internal commerce, and insure
its safety, they have an undoubted right to remove obstructions
from their harbors and rivers, deepen their channels, and improve theni generally, if they do not impair their free navigation, as permitted under the laws of the United States, or
defeat any system for the improvement of their navigation
provided by the general government. Legislation of the
States, for the purposes and within the limits mentioned, does
not infringe upon the commercial power of Congress." 102
U. S.691, 699.
It follows, I think, from what has been said, that the position of the majority of the court, as to the paramount power
of Congress over bridges crossing navigable streams, is not tenable. Congress cannot invade the rights of a State, nor can a
State impede the exercise of the just powers of the Federal
government. The conclusion I draw is, that a bridge constructed by the authority of a State, if it does not interfere
with the free navigation of the stream, is a lawful structure,
and can neither be taken nor destroyed by Congress or by the
State, except as other private property may be thus taken, that
is, for public purposes upon making just compensation.
It must also be borne inmind that the power to regulate

Oct. 1881.]

Pi)-RmoE

Co. V. UNITED STATES.

commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,
extends to such commerce on land as well as to tlat on navigable waters. There are highways on land in every State, on
which a far greater commerce, both inter-state and foreign, is
conducted, than that which is borne upon its navigable waters.
Congress can require that this commerce shall be as free from
nnnecessary obstruction as that on navigable waters connecting
two or more States or leading to the sea. There is nothing in
the Constitution which in any respect distinguishes the regula-tion it may exercise in either case. Its power, in all its extent and with all its limitations, is the same in both. Tie fact
that navigable waters are natural highways, and roads, railways, and canals are of artificial construction, does not affect
the power. That is one of regulation of inter-state and foreign
commerce by whatever channels conducted. If bridges crossing natural highways cannot be constructed without the consent of Congress, because it is vested with the power' to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the States, for like
reason bridges cannot be constructed witlhout such consent
over artificial highways on land. The argument for the necessity of the consent in the one case is equally good in the other,
and is equally unsound in both. In nearly every county of
every State, bridges hlave been constructed under State authority over railways, - the great highxways of commerce in modern
times, - and it has never been suggested thlat the consent of
Congrcss to tlheir construction was at all necessary.
Nor do I find in the previous decisions of this court any
recognition of a power in Congress to authorize the construetion of bridges over navigable streams within or borderinog on
the States, in the sense that its permission will justify their
construction, and that without it such construction would be
unlawful, - excepting, of course, bridges whieh are parts of
works undertaken for national purposes, -or
of a power to
regulate then, that is, to control them, after they are constructed. There are expressions in the opinions of the judges
in the Wheeling Bridge Case, in the 18th of Howard, that,
under the power to regulate commerce, Congress may declare
what slall and shall not be deemed in judgment of law an
obstruction to navigation.
But these expressions, in their

BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

generality, were not called for by the case before the court.
That only called for a determination of the question whether
a structure adjudged by the court to be unlawful as an obstruction to the navigation of the river could afterwards be legalized by Congress. The court held that it could be legalized,
which amounted to no more than declaring that it should not
thereafter be treated as interfering with the public right of
navigation of the river, so far as that right was under the
protection of Congress. This is a very different thing from
asserting a power to declare that a structure, lawful when
erected, and in no way interfering with the navigation of the
river, is an unlawful structure, removable without compensation to the owner. I cannot admit that there is any such
arbitrary power under our government. I find no warrant for
it in the Constitution ; on the contrary, all the guarantees
which that instrument contains for the security of property
negative its existence. Yet out of this assertion of a power
to legalize a structure, which without such sanction would be
deemed an obstruction to navigation, has grown up the doctrine of an independent power in Congress to authorize the
construction of bridges over navigable streams without the permission of the States, and to control them when constructed.
In this we are furnished with a striking illustration of the
facility with which power is assumed from expressions, loosely
or inadvertently used, apparently recognizing its existence.
From the use of the word "assent" to the erection of a bridge
over a navigable river, or the declaring of one already erected
a lawful structure, the transition has been easy and natural to
the assumption of an affirmative power in Congress to authorize, independently of the action of the States, the construction
of such bridges, and to control them. From the authorities
cited, and the reasons assigned, it is evident that Congress possesses no such power. In the Wheeling Bridge Case, Mr.
Justice Nelson, who delivered the prevailing opinion said:
" The bridge had been constructed under an act of the legislature of the State of Virginia; and it was admitted that act
conferred full authority upon the defendants for the erection,
subject only to the power of Congress in the regulation of
comuerce." 18 How. 430. Mr. Justice McLean, while dis-

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE

CO. v. UNITED STATES.

senting from the asserted power of Congress to declare a
bridge to be a lawful structure, which had been adjudged by
the court to be a public nuisance as an obstruction to navigation, spoke with emphasis against the existence of any authority in Congress to construct bridges, and, of course, to authorize
their construction, and his views do not appear to have met
with any dissent from the other judges. " If," said he, " under
the commercial power, Congress may make bridges over navigable waters, it would be difficult to find any limitation of
such a power. Turnpike-roads, railroads, and canals might on
the same principle be built by Congress. And if this be a
constitutional power, it cannot be restricted or interfered with
by any State regulation.
So extravagant and absorbing a
Federal power as this bas rarely, if ever, been claimed by any
one. It would, in a great degree, supersede the State governments by the tremendous authority and patronage it would
exercise. But ifthe power be found in the Constitution, no
principle is perceived by which it can be practically restricted.
This dilemma leads us to the conclusion that it is not a constitutional power."
Such, also, has been the uniform doctrine of the Supreme

Courts of several States declared by judges, some of whom
were justly distinguished for their learning and ability. Thus,
in The People v. Rensselaer P Saratoga Railroad Co., in
the Supreme Court of New York, Chief Justice Savage, in
delivering its opinion, said :" I think I may safely say that a
power exists somewhere to erect bridges over waters which are
navigable, if the wants of society require them, provided such
bridges do not essentially injure the navigation of the waters
which they cross. Such power certainly did exist in the State
legislatures, before the delegation of power to the Federal
govermnent by the Federal Constitution. It is not pretended
that such a power has been delegated to the general government, or is conveyed under the power to regulate commerce
and navigation ; it remains, tlien, in the State legislatures, or
it exists nowhere. It does exist, because it has not been surrendered any farther than such surrender may be qualifiedly
implied ; that is, the power to erect bridges over navigable
streams must be considered so far surrendered as may be neces-

BnIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.

sary for a free navigation upon those streams."

[SUP. CL.
15 Wend.

(N. Y.) 113, 131.
If weight is to be given to these authorities, and to the
reasons on which they rest, it must follow that the sovereignty
and juirisdiction of the States over their navigable waters,

which were as absolute upon the adoption of the Constitution
as over their roads, still continue ; except that they are to be
so exercised as not to obstruct the free navigation of the
waters, -so
far as such navigation may be required in the
prosecution of inter-state and foreign commerce.
And by
" free navigation " is not meant a navigation entirely clear of
obstructions. In the sense in which these terms are used by
European jurists, the navigation of a river is free, when it is
not entirely interrupted, and not embarrassed by oppressive
duties exacted by riparian States. In this country, the navigation of a river is deemed to be free, when it is kept open for
vessels cleared of such physical obstructions as would retard
their passage beyond what is required for the necessary transit
ovei the strean, and is exempt from exactions and delays other
than for the enforcement of quarantine and health laws ; and
such occasional tolls as may be levied to meet the expenses of
improving its navigation.
The delays attendant upon the
necessary transit of persons and property, or the enforcement
of quarantine and health laws, or the eactiLon in exceptional
eases of tolls, are not deemed to be inconsistent with the free
navigation of the river in the legal sense of those terms.
Thus, bridges with draws of sufficient width for the passage
of vessels are allowed on rivers in Europe, like the Rhine,
whose navigation is declared to be free. So, in this country,
such bridges do not destroy the free character of the navigation, any more than ferries, though, like them, they may cause
more or less delay to vessels. In Palmer v. Commissioners of
Cuyamoya County, application was made to the Circuit Court
of the United States, sitting in Ohio, for an injunction to prevent the construction of a drawbridge over the Cuyahoga
River, on the ground that it would obstruct the navigation of
the river and injure the property of the plaintiff in its vicinity.

It was founded upon the fourth article of the ordinance of
1787 respecting the Northwestern Territory, which declares

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED STATES.

"that the navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and St.
Lawrence, and the carrying places between the same, shall be
common highways and forever free, as well to the inhabitants
of said Territory, as to the citizens of the United States, and
those of any other States that may be admitted into the
Confederacy, without any tax, impost, or duty therefor." The
court, refusing the injunction, said that this provision "'does
not prevent a State from improving the navigableness of these
waters, by removing obstructions, or by dams and locks so
increasing the depth of the water as to extend the line of navigation. Nor does the ordinance prohibit the construction of
any work on the river, which the State may consider important
to commercial intercourse. A dam may be thrown over the
river, provided a lock is so constructed as to permit boats to
pass, with little or no delay, and without charge. A temporary delay, such as passing a lock, could not be considered as
And again
an obstruction prohibited by the ordinance."
1 A drawbridge across a navigable water is not an obstruction. As this could not be a work connected with the navigation of the river, no toll, it is supposed, could be charged for
the passage of boats. But the obstruction wolid be only
momentary, to raise the draw; and as such a work may be
very important in a general intercourse of the community, no
doubt is entertained as to the power of the State to make the
bridge."
In the Wheeling Bridye Case, the bridge was held to be an
unlawful obstruction because it entirely prevented the passage
of steam vessels with high chimneys ; and the court ordered
that it should be elevated in a manner, and to an extent indicated, so as to afford a free passage for the steamers; or that
soine other plan should be adopted by a day designated which
would relieve the navigation from obstruction. Upon a suggestion that the obstruction to the navigation might be avoided
by making a draw in the bridge, or in some other manner
equally convenient to the public and less expensive than by
elevating it, the matter was referred to an engineer; and upon
his report the company was allowed to make an attempt to
obviate the obstruction by improving another channel of the
river and constructing a draw in the bridge over it. Some
VOn. XV.

32

BRIDGIE CO. V. UNITED qTATES.

[811P. Ot.

slight delay would be caused by the draw, and an increased distance would have to be run in passing the new channel; but
the court (lid not consider these circumstances as constituting
a material objection to the plan. See also Cooley, Const. Lim.,
pp. 591-594, and authorities there cited.
The considerations to which I have referred and the authorities cited lead to a ready solution of the questions raised by the
case at bar.
The construction of a bridge over the Ohio River was anthorized by the legislation of Kentucky and Ohio. The legislation of Kentucky, adopted in 1868, provided that the bridge
" should be so constructed as not to obstruct the navigation of
the Ohio River further than the laws of the United States
authorize." The legislation of Ohio, adopted the same year,
authorized the construction of a bridge " either with a single
span or with a draw," as the company (incorporated for that
purpose) might determine ; but in either case, in order that
said bridge might not obstruct the navigation of said river, the
same should be built in accordance with the act of Congress of
July 14, 1862, or of any act that Congress might thereafter pass
on the subject ; which, of course, meant before the bridge was
built. The only regulation of Congress to which the erection
of the bridge was made subject by the States, was such as had
been prescribed or might be prescribed previously to the execution of the work. The bridge was not surrendered to any further disposition or control of the general government. The
companies organized under the laws of the two States for the
construction of the bridge were authorized to consolidate themselves into one company. They were consolidated under the
name of the Newport and Cincinnati Bridge Company.
On the 3d of March, 1869, Congress passed a resolution
giving its consent to this company to erect a bridge over the
Ohio River from Cincinnati to Newport, provided it be built
with an unbroken or continuous span of not less than four hundred feet in the clear from pier to pier, over the main channel
of the river, and in all other respects in accordance with the
conditions and limitations of an act entitled "An Act to establish certain post-roads," approved July 14, 1862 ; and the resolution declared that the bridge, when completed in the manner

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE

CO. v. UNITED STATES.

specified, should "be deemed and taken to be a legal structure,"
and should be " a post-road for the transmission of the mails of
the United States." It also had this clause: " B u t Congress
reserves the right to withdraw the assent hereby given, in ease the
free navigation of said river shall at any time be substantially
and materially obstructed by any bridge to be erected under the
authority of this resolution, or to direct the necessary modifications and alterations of said bridge."
The act of July 14, 1862, provided that any bridge erected
under it might, at the option of the company building the
same, be constructed either as a drawbridge with a pivot, or
other form of draw, or with unbroken or continuous spans ; and
specified the width of the spans and the elevation of the
bridge.
iuMarch, 1869, the company commenced the construction of
a bridge across the river according to a plan, which met all the
conditions imposed by the legislation of the States and of Congress, and the work was prosecuted until March, 1871, when it
was nearly completed, the actual cost then incurred being about
$807,000. The whole cost, when completed at contract prices,
would have been about $1,110,000. On the 3d of March of
that year, while the company was in the prosecution of the
work, Congress passed an act declaring that it would be unlawful for the company or any other person to proceed with the
erection of the bridge without making various alterations, ineluding a wider span and a higher elevation, which should be
submitted to the Secretary of War for his approval.
The company immediately suspended work, adopted a new
plan, submitted it to the Secretary of War, obtained his approval, and then proceeded with the bridge and completed it.
The additional work, and the necessary changes in that already
done, required by the act of Congress, caused an additional
expenditure of over $300,000. The act also provided that, in
the event the company made the changes, it should be lawful
for it to file a bill in equity against the United States, in the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of Ohio, which should
have jurisdiction to determine, first, whether the bridge, according to the plans on which it had progressed at the passage of
the act, had been constructed so as substantially to comply

BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.

LSup. Ct.

with the provisions of law relating thereto; and, second, the
liability of the United States, if any there were, to the company, by reason of the changes required; and if the court
should determine that the United States were so liable, and
that the bridge was so being built, then the court should further ascertain and determine the amount of the actual and
necessary cost and expenditures reasonably required to be
incurred in making the changes in the bridge and its approaches, in excess of the cost of building the bridge and
approaches according to the original plan. The court was
further authorized and required to proceed therein to final
decree as in other cases in equity.
Under this act the present bill was filed, and it was clearly
shown at the hearing that when the act was passed the bridge
had been constructed substantially in compliance with all the
provisions of law in relation thereto; that so far as constructed
it did not materially obstruct the navigation of the river, and
would not have done so had it been completed according to the
original plan. Yet the court below held, and this court sustains its ruling, that for the enormous expenditures forced upon
the company the United States are in no way responsible.
This court thus, in effect, decides that the power of Congress
over all structures crossing navigable streais is absolute ; and
that it can change or remove them at its pleasure, without
regard to their effect upon the free navigation of the streams,
and without compensation to the owners.
I do not think that the assent of Congress to the erection of
the bridge was at all essential to its character as a lawful
structure. That depended upon the legislation of Kentucky
and Ohio, and upon the contingency of the bridge not interfering with the free navigation of the river. The assent of Congress, as already stated, only removed all ground of complaint
of the structure as interfering with the public right of navigation, so far as that right was under the protection of the Federal government. No one could afterwards complain that the
bridge, if built in conformity with the directions specified, constituted a public nuisance, because interrupting the free navigation of the river as secured under the laws of Congress, and
proceed to obtain its abatement. The authority of the States

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED

STATPS.

to build it, coupled with the assent of Congress, if constructed
in the manner prescribed, placed the work, whilst in the process of erection and when completed, beyond the reach of legal
proceedings for its abatement or modification. It could not,
when completed, be taken for public purposes by the general
government, nor be materially changed in its form and strueture whilst in the process of erection, under compulsion of the
legislation of Congress, without compensation to its owners.
The legislative declaration, made when it was nearly completed, that its further construction would be unlawful without
a change of plan, which necessitated very costly alterations, or
an abandonment of the bridge, was a taking from its owners of
a portion of their work as effectually as its absolute appropriation. If not, in the strict constitutional sense, a taking of private property for public uses, it was an enforced expenditure
of labor and materials by the company, not required by the
work undertaken or the conditions on which assent to its construction had been given; and for such labor and materials the
government should, on every principle of justice, indemnify
the company. A legislative decree connanding such an expenditure is within the spirit, if not the letter, of the constitutional provisions which inhibit depriving one of his property
without due process of law, and taking it from him without
compensation. The wrong inflicted is as great in the one way
as in the other. As the provisions were designed to secure the
individual from the arbitrary spoliation of his property, their
purpose could be readily evaded if a special act could exact for
the protection of his property an expenditure of money or labor, which was neither exacted when the property was acquired,
nor permitted by the terms of its acquisition.
This View was taken by the Court of Appeals of Virginia,
in Crenshaw v. Slate River Comalwny, reported in 6th Rlandolph. There it was held that after a mill had been established and a dam erected according to a law granting to the
mill-owner the use of the water for grinding, a subsequent act
of the legislature, which imposed on him the burden of erecting locks through his dam, keeping them in repair, and giving
them attendance so as to admit the passage of boats, and on
his failure, vested in a company the power to abate the dam as

BIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

a nuisance, without full indemnification and equivalent for the
injury thus done to his vested rights, was contrary to the Constitution of the State, and void, as a taking of private property
for a public use without compensation.
There are many ways of taking property other than by occupation or appropriation, which are within the constitutional
inhibition. If its beneficial use and enjoyment are prevented
under the sanction of law, it is taken from him as effectually
as though the title were condenmed. Such is the purport of
the decision in ])_nPlelly v. Green Bay Conpany (13 Wall.
166), a decision which has attracted much attention from its
enlarged views of the redress afforded by the constitutional
provision for injuries to property effected under authority of
law, which permanently and materially impair its value. It
was there held that the backing of the water of a river in Wisconsin by a dam authorized by law, so as to overflow tile land
of an individual, thus destroying its usefulness to him, was a
taking of the property within the meaning of the Constitution.
Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering the opinion of the court, very
justly observed that "it would be a very curious and unsatisfactory result, if in construing a provision of constitutional
law, always understood to have been adopted for protection
and security to the rights of the individual as against the government, and which has received the commendation of jurists,
statesmen, and commentators, as placing the just principles of
the common law on that subject beyond the power of ordinary
legislation to change or control them, it shall be held that if
the government refrains from the absolute conversion of real
property to the uses of the public, it can destroy its value
entirely, can inflict irreparable and permanent injury to an
extent, - can, in effect, subject it to total destruction without
making any compensation, because, in the narrowest sense of
that word, it is not taken for the public use. Such a construction would pervert the constitutional provision into a restriction upon the rights of the citizen, as those rights stood at the
common law, instead of the government, and make it an authority for invasion of private right under the pretext of the
public good, which had no warrant in the laws or practices of
our ancestors."

Oct.

1881.]

BIDGE Co. v. UNITED

STATES.

It is not necessary, however, in order to charge the government with the expenditures forced upon the company, to rely
upon this provision of the Constitution, further than to show
the general spirit which should control the government in its
legislation affecting the property of individuals. There is a
general principle of justice pervading our laws, and the laws of

all free governments, which requires that whoever unlawfully
and wrongfully imposes upon another the necessity of an unusual expenditure of money or labor or materials for the protection and preservation of his property, shall make complete
indemnity for the expenditure. The principle applies as fully
to the acts of the government as to those of individuals; and
wherever suits can be brought in the tribunals of the country,
such indemnity can be enforced. Here the government waives
exemption from suit which its sovereign character gives, and
submits the question of its liability to the judgment of its tribumals, thus admitting a readiness to iudemnify the owners of
the bridge, if it has disregarded its pledge and dealt unfairly
with them in the premises.
The resolution of Congress giving its consent to the erection
of the bridge specified irs character and form, and the right to
withdraw the consent or to direct necessary modifications and
alterations of the bridge was reserved to be exercised only in
ease the free navigation of the river should at any time be substantially and materially obstructed by the bridge. The reservation clause is to be read as though written thus: " But
Congress reserves the right to withdraw the assent hereby
given [or to direct the necessary modifications and alterations
of said bridge] in case the free navigation of said river shall at
any time be substantially and materially obstructed by any
bridge to be erected under the authority of this resolution."
The right to withdraw the assent or to direct alterations was
thus made to depend upon the same contingency ; and the resolution amounts to a pledge of the government, that neither
should be done unless the contingency happened. Congress
said to the constructing company in substance thus 1"You are
empowered by the States of Kentucky and Ohio to build a
bridge over the Ohio River, of certain height and dimensions,
provided it be so constructed as not to obstruct the navigation

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

of the river further than the present laws of the United States
authorize, and in accordance with the act of July 14, 1862.
Now, we consent to the erection of the bridge, that is, we
declare that, if constructed in the manner prescribed, it shall
not be deemed an obstruction to the free navigation of the
river; but we reserve the right to withdraw this assent, or to
direct alterations to the bridge, if hereafter the free navigation
of the river should be substantially and materially obstructed
by it."
The general government, through Congress, thus bound
itself not to interfere with the construction of the bridge, nor
with the bridge when completed, except on the contingency of
its proving a material obstruction to the free navigation of the
river. Such contingency had not occurred when the act directing the alterations was passed ; it has never occurred. So the
proofs in the case show, and independently of this circumstance, whether or not the contingency had occurred, was not
a fact to be arbitrarily determined by the legislature. It was
to be ascertained judicially upon proofs and after hearing the
parties, like any other disputed fact upon the establishment of
which rights of property depend. This doctrine, as well as
other positions advanced in this opinion, is well illustrated by
the case of Commonwealth v. The Proprietors of New Bedford
Bridge, 2 Gray (Mass.), 339. There the act chartering the
corporation authorized the building over a navigable stream in
Mfassachusetts of a toll-bridge with two suitable draws, which
were to be at least thirty feet wide, - one on the west side of
the river in the channel way, and the other on the east side in
the most suitable place there. A bridge with such draws was
accordingly built. A subsequent act of the legislature required the corporation to make and maintain, in lieu of one
of these two draws, a new draw of not less than sixty feet in
width,- the westerly abutment of which was to be eight
feet further to the eastward than the westerly abutment of
the existing draw. The bridge proprietors, not making the
changes required, were indicted for obstructing the navigation
of the river by their bridge. They justified under their act of
incorporation. In deciding upon their liability the court held
that the original act of incorporation, when accepted, consti-

Oct. 1881.]

I3DGE CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

tuted a contract between them and the State, by the terms of
which both parties were equally bound; that the proprietors
could not, without the consent of the legislature, escape or
evade any of the duties or obligations imposed upon or assumed
by them under the act; nor could the legislature, without the
assent of the proprietors, in any way affect or impair the original terms of the charter by annexing new conditions or inposing additional duties onerous in their nature or inconsistent
with a reasonable construction of the contract; that by its
terms the proprietors were to erect " suitable draws, which
were to be not less than thirty feet wide; " and that the question whether the draws already made were suitable, that is,
constructed so as not unreasonably or unnecessarily to obstruct
or impede the navigation of the river, was not a question to be
determined absolutely by the legislature or by the proprietors,
when disputed between the parties. "1Like all other matters
involving a controversy concerning public duty and' private
rights," said the court, '' it is to be adjudged and settled in the
regular tribunals where questions of law and fact are adjudicated on fixed and established principles, and according to the
forms and usages best adapted to secure the impartial adininistration of justice." The same doctrine is also well illustrated
in the case of MVfayor of Baltinore v. Connellsville &. Pittsburg] Railroad Co., decided in the Circuit Court of the United
States by the late Mr. Justice Grier. The charter of the Pittsburg and Connellsville Railroad Company, a corporation of
Pennsylvania, contained the following provision, viz. : " If the
said company shall at any time misuse or abuse any of the privileges herein granted, the legislature may resume all and singular the rights and privileges hereby granted to such corporation."
Under this clause the legislature passed an act, in 1864, revoking
and resuming all the rights and privileges granted to the company, so far as it authorized the construction of a line southwardly or eastwardly from Connellsville. But the court held
that when the right to revoke was to be exercised only in ease
the corporation should misuse or abuse its privileges, the fact
of such misuse, if denied by the corporation, should be establisied by competent proceedings; and that an act declaring a
revocation without the establishmelnt of such fact was unconsti

BRIDGE CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

tutional. In giving its opinion Mr. Justice Grier said: "If in
the act of incorporation the legislature retains the absolute and
unconditional power of revocation for any or no reason; if it
be so written in the bond, the party accepting a franchise on
such conditions cannot complain if it be arbitrarily revoked;
or if this contract be that the legislature may repeal the act
whenever in its opinion the corporation has misused or abused
its privileges, then the contract constitutes the legislature the
arbiter and judge of the existence of that fact. But the case
before us comes within another category. The contract does
not give an unconditional right to the legislature to repudiate
its contract, nor is the legislature constituted the tribunal to
adjudge the question of fact as to the misuse or abuse." 4 Am.
Law Reg. N. s. 750.
A consciousness seems to have pervaded Congress that it
was disregarding its pledge to the company, when it directed
tie alterations which proved so expensive, before the contingency mentioned had happened; and that it might turn out
that the bridge completed as designed would not substantially
and materially obstruct the free navigation of the river; and
that, in that case, it would be justly chargeable with the coinmission of an injury to the company. For this reason, I think
we may assuLe it intended that tie court should award compensation to the owners for the alterations made, if, upon
proof, it appeared that, so far as the bridge had been construtted, when they were required, the provisions of tile law
relating thereto had been substantially complied with ; and it
should also appear that, if completed as originally designed, the
bridge would not have substantially and materially obstructed
the free navigation of the river. Congress did not intend that
heavy expenditures should be imposed by its will upon the
company without at the same time offefing, if they were illegally exacted, to reimburse them. Congress intended to be
just, and I cannot resist the conclusion, that the court, in its
decision, has defeated its intentions.
lI\{. JUSTICE BIRADLEY. I dissent from the judgment of the
court ill this case, and will briefly state my reasons. Uhe central
reason is, that the bridge, as it stood, nearly completed when the

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE Co. v. UNITED

STATES.

act of March 3, 1871, c. 121, directing it to be taken down or
altered, was passed, was a lawful structure, and in the lawful
possession of the appellants as their private property; and, being
such, I think that Congress could not constitutionally require its
demolition, or reconstruction, without providing for compensation to the owners. By virtue of its plenary power to regilate
commerce among the several States, as well as with foreign
nations, Congress may undoubtedly require the removal of all
nuisances and unlawful obstructions in the navigable rivers of
the United States, without giving compensation to any persons
who may be incidentally affected. It also has the power to
improve the navigation of such rivers; but in making or authorizing improvements, other than the removal of unlawful
obstructions, it cannot take private property without complying with that clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution which declares, " Nor shall private property be taken for
publlic use without just compensation." This proposition would
be conceded where property taken for that purpose consists of
lands, houses, buildings, or other structures standing on the
natural banks of a river ; but I think that it is equally true
where erections are made on the margin of a river, or where a
bridge is constructed across it, in accordance with the laws of
the State and with the consent of Congress. Such structures
are lawful and are private property, entitled to the constitutional protection. That which is lawful is not a nuisance,
and cannot be prostrated or removed as such without compensation.
I should not have much difficulty in holding, if it were
necessary to the decision of the case, that such structures made
in conformity with the laws of the State, if not prohibited by
any act of Congress, and not materially interfering with navigation, would be equally lawful, and entitled to the protection
of the Constitution. Trhere is a vast amount of property (if
this sort in this country. The wharves which have been extended below low-water mark, the flats covered by shallow
water which have been reclaimed, and the many bridges which
have been erected over navigable streams, are nearly all of this
class. Navigation has rarely been materially interfered with
in these works, the States themselves being deeply interested

BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

in preserving it free from obstruction. It would be strange if
Congress could destroy this species of property without any
compensation whatever.
But the bridge in question had not only the sanction of the
States of Kentucky and Ohio, which it was intended to connect,
but it had also the sanction of an act of Congress.

If that of

the States was not sufficient to make it a lawful structure, that
of Congress, in addition, certainly made it so. I cannot' yield
to the argument that the reservation in the resolution of
1869 made the bridge any the less lawful than it would have
been if no such reservation had been made. After authorizing
the bridge to be erected in the manner it was, the resolution
went on to say "1that the said bridge, when completed in the
manner specified in this resolution, shall be deemed and taken
to be a legal structure, and shall be a post-road for the transmission of the mails of the United States ; " then comes the
reservation referred to, as follows : " But Congress reserves the
right to withdraw the assent hereby given in case the free navigation of said river shall at any time be substantially and
materially obstructed by any bridge to be erected under the
authority of this resolution, or to direct the necessary modifications and alterations of said bridge."
The power thus
reserved was merely declaratory of the power which Congress
would have had without reserving it ; but there is no stipulation or condition that it might be exercised without providing
for compensation to the proprietors of the bridge ; and inasmuch as the bridge became a lawful structure, * was, in fact,
expressly declared such by the resolution of 1869, -it
cannot
be presumed that this reserved power was to be exercised in
any other than the constitutional mode. Hence, when the act
of 1871 required the bridge to be taken down, and constructed
on a different plan, if constructed at all, we should expect what
we find was done, that provision would, be made in the same
law for ascertaining the damages to which the appellants would
be put by the alteration, and for the payment thereof out of
the treasury of the United. States. It is true that the law
required the tribunal to which the matter was referred to ascertain the liability of the United States, "if any there be;"
thus qualifying the provision for compensation by a prelimi-

Oct. 1881.]

FRENCH v. GAPEN.

nary inquiry as to the government's liability. This inquiry
was probably directed to be made from the fact that doubts
may have existed in the minds of some members of the
legislative body whether the reservation referred to did not
exonerate the United States from any obligation to make colnpensation. In my opinion it did not. I think, therefore, that
the appellant was entitled to a decree in its favor, and that

the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill should be
reversed.

Faioxcn v. GAPEN.
SPEARS v. GAPEN.
The legislation of the State of Indiana touching the water-power of the Wabash
and Eric Canal, and the rights of certain parties thereto acquired under that
legislation, considered.
Ield, 1. That the contractor who, pursuant to his bid
under the act of Jan. 9, 1842 (ifma, p. 510), performed the work, acquired, until
be should be fully paid therefor, a property right in the rents of the waterpower which he rendered available, and the State became a trustee to collect
fu, p. 514) the mill-owner
and pay them to him. 2. That by his contract (i '/i
secured, without payment of rent, the right to draw water to his mill from
the canal, as long as the latter yielded a surplus beyond the amount required
for navigation and for furnishing the earlier leases. 3.. That the title to the.
property, which the State conveyed to the board of trustees of the canal, was
subject to the rights so acquired and secured. 4. That where, by a decree
rendered in a suit whereto the board and the holder of the certificates of
stock provided for in the conveyance of the State to the trustees were parties, the part of the canal to which those rights attached was sold and the
fund brought into court, the contractor and the mill-owner can intervene in
order that their respective rights, either upon the fluid or against the purchaser, may be ascertained and determined.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for

the District of Indiana.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.

The cases were argued by M3r. John Morris, Ji-.

Ralph

Hill, and Mr. Samuel Shellabarqcr for the appellants, and
by -M'. Solomon Claypool and ir. R. S. Taylor for the appellees.

