Oct. 1881.]

Ex

PARTE SLAYTON.

appearance as an appellant in this court, nor did anything to
make himself an actor in reference to his own appeal, until
March 23, 1882, the day before the cause was called for hearing. Under these circumstances we must decline to consider
his appeal. Grigsby v. Purcell, 99 U. S. 505. Rule 9 of this
court requires every plaintiff in error or appellant, on docketing his cause, to have the appearance of counsel entered; and
Rule 10, that he secure the costs. Cross-appeals must be prosecuted like other appeals. Every appellant, to entitle himself
to be heard on his own appeal, must appear here as an actor in
his own behalf by having the appearance of counsel entered
and giving the security required by the rules. Otherwise,
if he is here as appellee on the appeal of his adversary, he
will be heard only in support of the decree as it was entered
below. If he asks affirmative relief beyond what he got below,
he must enter himself in this court in due time as the prosecutor of his own appeal, even though his adversary has docketed
the case against him.
Decree affirmed. The appeal of Wilcox dismissed for want
of prosecution.

Ex

PARTE SLAYTON.

The owner of a vessel may, before le or it is sued, institute appropriate proceetings in a court of competent jurisdiction, to obtain the benefit of the limitation

of liability provided for by sects. 4284 and 4285 of the Revised Statutes.

PETITION for a writ of prohibition.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Alfred Russell for the petitioner.
Mr. J. H. AcGowan, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We are of opinion that, notwithstanding Admiralty Rules
Nos. 54, 55, 56, and 57 of this court, the owner of a vessel may
institute appropriate proceedings, in a court of competent juris-

Ex

PARTE SLAYTON.

[Sup. Ct.

diction, to obtain the benefit of the limitation of liability provided for by sects. 4284 and 4285 of the Revised Statutes, without waiting for a suit to be begun against him or his vessel for
the loss out of which the liability arises. As was said at this
term in The Scotland (supra, p. 24), our rules were not intended
to prevent an owner from availing himself of any other remedy
or process which the law itself entitled him to adopt, but to
aid him in bringing into concourse those having claims against
him arising from the acts of the master or crew.
Section 4284 expressly allows the owner to institute appropriate proceedings in any court, that is to say, any court of
competent jurisdiction, for the purpose of apportioning among
the proper parties the sum for which h6 is liable. Sect. 4285
provides, that it shall be deemed a sufficient compliance on his
part with the requirements of the act if lie shall transfer all his
interest in the vessel and freight to a trustee, appointed by the
court for the persons who may prove to be legally entitled
thereto. Any court, therefore, which gets actual possession of
the things to be transferred, and about which the concourse of
claimants is to be had, is a court of competent jurisdiction to
try the questions that will properly arise upon the apportionment to be made. Even though he should institute proceedings before he or his vessel is sued, the courts will either follow
our rules as far as practicable, or do something which is equivalent, to obtain jurisdiction of the thing about which the litigation is to be had. No monition can properly issue either under
the operation of our rules, or otherwise, until this jurisdiction
of the thing has been in some way secured.
On looking into the return of the district judge in this case
we find that the proceedings were instituted by the owner of
the steamer " Alpena " in the district where the port is situated,
to which the steamer was bound, at the time the loss occurred,
on one of her regular trips between Grand Haven, Mich.,
and Chicago, Ill. ; that the steamer lies sunk in Lake Michigan ; that some portions of the wreck were washed ashore in
Michigan between Grand Haven and Chicago ; that on filing
the petition an order was entered by the court appointing a
trustee, such as was provided for in the statute, and requiring
the owner to transfer to him all its right, title, and interest to

Oct. 1881.]

Ex PARTE SLAYTON.

whatever remained of the steamer, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the pending freight; that such a transfer was made,
and freight, admitted to be pending, amounting to $196, actually paid over, and that when this was done the monition
issued. It is true the return does not expressly show that the
remnants of the wreck, scattered on the shores of the lake, have
actually been gathered together and brought within the northern district of Illinois ; but it is stated that the transfer has
been made and the freight-money paid over. This is not
denied. Such being the case, we cannot say the court (upon
the showing here made) has not acquired jurisdiction of the
thing about which the litigation arises, to wit, the fund to be
apportioned among th'e parties who may prove to be legally
entitled thereto. It has the freight-money in its possession,
and its trustee is in a condition to gather up the remnants of
the vessel if it has not already been done. The jurisdiction of
the court is not dependent at all on the amount, but on the
rightful possession of that which is to be divided.
We cannot, on an application for a writ of prohibition, determine what shall be the effect of any judgment of the District
Court while exercising its rightful jurisdiction, neither are we
to determine in this form of proceeding what persons, or what
classes of persons, are entitled to the fund in hand. All these
are questions to be settled in some other way than by prohibitiug the court from proceeding under the jurisdiction it has
acquired by getting possession, in an appropriate manner, of
that which, according to the claim of the owner, represents the
extent of his liability, or that of his vessel. Whether it does
so or not is to be settled between the parties when the case is
tried. With the possession and control of the property the
court has jurisdiction.
Petition denied.

