BLENNEIRASSETT V. SHERMAN.

BLENNERI-ASSETT

[Sup. Ct.

V. SHERMAN.

1. A mortgage of his entire estate, executed by an insolvent mortgagor to a
creditor, who knows of his insolvency, and who, for the purpose of giving
him a fictitious credit, actively conceals the mortgage, withholds it fron)
record, and represents him as having a large estate and unlimited credit, by
which means he is enabled to contract other debts which he cannot pay, is
void at common law.
2. A mortgage executed by an insolvent with intent to give a preference to a
creditor, who has reasonable cause to believe him to be insolvent, and knows
that it is made in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act, and who,
for the purpose of evading them, actively conceals it and withholds it
from record for two months, is void, although executed more than two
months before the filing of a petition in bankruptcy by or against the
mortgagor.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Iowa.
The bill in this case was filed Jan. 26, 1875. The suit was
brought to foreclose a mortgage executed by Allen, lately of
the city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois, to Allen, Stephens,
& Co., of the city of New York, a firm composed of Allen,
the mortgagor, and Stephens and Blennerhassett. The bill of
complaint set out the mortgage in full, as follows: "NEW YOUR, 18 Nov., 1874.-I hereby acknowledge the receipt of four hundred and sixty-five thousand four hundred and
seventy-six and 88-100 dollars of advance to the Cook County National Bank, of Chicago, for my account, sarnc being made by Allen,
Stephens, & Co. in money, paper, and indorsements. I have arranged with them for additional advances. In consideration thereof
I hereby grant and convey to Allen, Stephens, & Co., by way of
mortgage and security for such advances, all my real estate of every
kind and description, and wherever situated.
" B. F. ALIEN."
This instrument was duly acknowledged by Allen before a

notary public in the city of New York, and delivered to the
complainants, Stephens and Blennerhassett. It was not recorded until Jan. 19, 1875. On that day it was filed for
record in Cook County, Illinois, and on the next day in Polk
County, Iowa.

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNERHASSETT

V. SHEIRMAN.

The bill charged "that in consideration of said security the
complainants had further advanced to said Allen in money and
valuable securities, and become personally liable by indorsement of securities for said Allen, in the further sum of four
hundred and thirty-four thousand five hundred and twentythree dollars and twelve cents, making a total amount of advancements and indorsements on account of said security of'
the sun of $900,000, paid and advanced by your orators, and
for which they became liable as indorsers." The bill then
gave a description of the real estate which complainants claimed
was covered by the mortgage, and prayed for an account of the
moneys advanced by the complainants to Allen, and the moneys
paid by them on account of the liabilities incurred and the
amounts intended to be secured by the mortgage, and for a
foreclosure of the same, and general relief.
On Feb. 8, 1875, the mortgage mentioned in the bill'was
assigned by Allen, Stephens, & Co. to the Charter Oak Life
Insurance Company of Hartford, Conn., and on April 17 that
company, leave of the court having been obtained allowing it
to intervene and become a party complainant, filed a supplemental bill, in which the assignment of the mortgage was
averred. A petition in bankruptcy was filed Feb. 23, 1875,
against Allen in the United States District Court for the District of Iowa. He was adjudged a bankrupt April 22, and on
July 1 following Hoyt Sherman was appointed assignee of his
estate.
On Aug. 7, 1875, Stephens and Blennerhassett, and the
Charter Oak Life Insurance Company, filed their bill of review, in which they prayed that Hoyt Sherman, the assignee
of Allen, might be made a party defendant. Allen was
retained as a defendant on account of a claim of homestead
which he set up to certain of the property covered by the
mortgage.
.In this bill, which is called in the record " a bill of revivor and
consolidated bill," the complainants averred, that prior to the
(late of the mortgage Allen had applied to Stephens and Blennerhassett, as copartners in the firm of Allen, Stephens, & Co.,
in behalf of the Cook County National Bank,to make to the
bank, upon his credit and responsibility, certain large advances

BLENNERPIASSETT V. SHERM]VAN.

[Sup. Ct.

of money, commercial paper, and indorsements, and that in
pursuance of such application Allen, Stephens, & Co. did
make such advances to the amount of $465,476 prior to the
date of the mortgage, and that after its date " they continued
to make advances of money and valuable securities to the said
Cook County National Bank, at the request of said Allen,
and between the said date of the 18th of November, 1874, and
the date of the suspension of payment by the said Cook County
National Bank, as hereinafter set forth, in addition to the said
sum of four hundred and sixty-five thousand four hundred and
seventy-six 88-100 dollars, ascertained and acknowledged to
have been received at the date of said mortgage, the said Allen,
Stephens, & Co. advanced in the aggregate the sum of two
million seven hundred and twenty-two thousand two hundred
and eighty-four and 29-100 dollars.
" That said Cook County National Bank from time to time,
between said dates, to wit, between the said eighteenth day of
November, 1874, and the eighteenth day of January, 1875, made
remittances to the said firm of Allen, Stephens, & Co., on account
of said advances, which remittances were made in currency and
in bills receivable, on which currency was realized, and all of
which was applied on account, and was sufficient to extinguish
and did extinguish wholly the amount so advanced prior to the
date of the execution of said mortgage, but was wholly inadequate to pay the amount advanced subsequent to said date.
That the balance due on account of said advances and in excess of the credits and remittances aforesaid, on the said eighteenth day of January, 1875, and still due and unpaid, is the
sum of nine hundred thousand dollars."
Sherman, the assignee, filed his answer to this bill, in
which he averred that the advances made by Allen, Stephens,
& Co. prior to the date of the mortgage were made to Allen
on his own individual account and for his own use, and not to
the Cook County National Batik, but denied that such advances amounted to the sum of $465,476, " or anything like
that amount." He admitted the execution of the mortgage,
but charged that on and prior to its date Allen was largely
indebted to persons and banks in New York City and to the
Cook County National Bank; that he was insolvent, his liabil--

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNEIUISSETT V. SHERMAN.

ities were more than $1,500,000, and exceeded his assets by at
least $600,000 ; that the Cook County National Bank was embarrassed and unable to pay its debts ; and that all these facts
were then well known to Stephens and Blennerhassett. That
they, desiring to take advantage of the necessities of Allen,
and desiring to extort from him a mortgage on his real estate
in Iowa and elsewhere, in fraud of his other creditors, falsely
represented to him that he was largely indebted to the firm of
Allen, Stephens, & Co., for advances theretofore made to the
Cook County National Bank for his account, " and that if he,
Allen, would execute to said firm an agreement or mortgage as
hereinbefore mentioned, said firn o' Allen, Stephens, & Co.
would advance, or procure to be advanced, to him an amount
that would be sufficient to enable him and the said Cook
County National Bank to go on with their business, and that
they would continue to make such advances till he and the
said bank had gotten over their crippled financial condition,
and were able to go on with their business without such assistance; and that if he, the said Allen, would do so, that the
same should not be put upon record, and should not in any
manner be uttered or published; that it should be held by
said Stephens and Blennerhassett, and should be kept from
the knowledge of all the general creditors of said Allen, and of
said Allen, Stephens, & Co. ; that the only use they would make
of it would be as a justifieation to their depositors for making
such advances to said Allen, and then only in ease any question
should be made with them, the said Stephens and Blennerhasset, by such depositors in regard thereto; and that it should
in no way or manner have any force or validity, even between
the said parties thereunto, unless the said Allen, Stephens,
& Co. should advance to said Allen funds suficient to enable
him and the said Cook County National Bank to go on with
their business, as above stated, and then that it should be held
by them, the said Stephens and Blennerhassett, and in no way
used without the consent of the said Allen.
" They further declared to Allen that if he refused to execute said mortgage they would at once cease to make advances
to him or the Cook County National Bank, and would take no
steps to protect the drafts drawn by the Cook County National

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

. Sup. Ct.

Bank on New York, which would cause its suspension. That
Allen being in great need of money, and relying on the representations of Stephens and Blennerhassett, and believing that
if be could procure the aid which they promised he could sustain the Cook County National Bank and pay off his debts, and
fearing lest Stephens and Blennerhassett would carry out their
threats, executed said mortgage."
The answer averred that Allen, Stephens, & Co., on and
before Jan. 18, 1875, refused to make the advances, upon the
making of which alone said mortgage was to have any validity
or effect, even between the parties thereto, and said firm in
other respects failed to comply with the promises made, upon
the faith of which the said mortgage was executed. That in
consequence of the refusal and failure of Stephens and Blennerbassett to comply with their promises, Allen and the Cook
County National Bank were compelled to and did suspend
payment, and to quit business and go into liquidation, and so
it was averred that the said mortgage became null and void.
The answer denied that, after the execution of the mortgage,
Allen, Stephens, & Co. continued to make advances to the
Cook County National Bank ; denied that there was due from
Allen or the Cook County National Bank to Allen, Stephens,
& Co. the sum of $900,000, and averred that Allen and the
Cook County National Bank had paid and delivered to Allen,
Stephens, & Co., in money and securities, sufficient to satisfy
all the advances of said firm to Allen and the Cook County
National Bank, if any such were made.
It was further averred in the answer as follows :" That on and prior to the eighteenth day of November,
1874, the date of said pretended mortgage, the said Allen
and the said Cook County National Bank was each insolvent and unable to pay their debts; that said firm of Allen,
Stephens, & Co., as well as the several members thereof, had,
at and prior to such date, reasonable cause to believe said
Allen and said bank were each insolvent; that said firm fraudulently procured said Allen to execute and deliver said pretended mortgage, knowing it was made to and would give said
firm a preference over the other creditors of said Allen, and
that it was made in fraud of the provisions of the bankrupt

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

law, and the more effectually to perpetrate such fraud on the
general creditors of said Allen at the time said mortgage was
executed and delivered, and said Stephens and Blennerhassett,
for themselves and said firm, agreed to cnceal the same, not
to publish the same or put the same on record; and in pursuance of such agreement they did, with intent to defraud the
general creditors of said Allen, keep the same in their possession for two months after it was executed, and until the nineteenth day of January, 1875, and until they had positive
knowledge that the said Allen and the said Cook County Bank
would be compelled to suspend, when said pretended mortgage,
or a copy thereof, was fraudulently, and for the purpose of
creating an illegal preference in their favor, filed for record in
the recorders' offices in the different counties in Iowa and
Illinois wherein the real estate of said Allen is situated. That
while said mortgage was, as aforesaid, secretly kept by said
Stephens and Blennerhassett, it had no effect or validity as
against the other creditors of said Allen, and that as to them
(if valid between the parties to it, which this respondent denies) it only took effect at and from the time the same was
filed for record, which was within the two months next prior
to the filing of the petition in bankruptcy against the said
Allen, and on which he was adjudged a bankrupt as aforesaid ; and that the same is fraudulent and void under and
by virtue of the provisions of the national bankrupt law and
the amendments thereto, and that the same is now a cloud
upon the said real estate then owned by said Allen, the title of
which has passed to your orator as the assignee of said bankrupt, and it ought by the decree of this honorable court to be
so declared, and said cloud removed."
The complainants filed the general replication to this answer.
Afterwards, on Jan. 17, 1876, an amendment was filed to
the said "consolidated bill," in which it was averred that, by
the application of money collected by Allen, Stephens, & Co.
from collateral securities held by them to secure the amount
due them from the Cook County National Bank, the amount
of such indebtedness had been reduced to the sum of $784,000,
by reason whereof the said firm of Allen, Stephens, & Co. had
no longer any beneficial interest in said mortgage, but the

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

entire and absolute interest in and ownership of said mortgage
was held and owned by the Charter Oak Life Insurance Company.
Sherman, as assignee of Allen, filed his cross-bill against
Stephens, Blennerhassett, and the Charter Oak Life Insurance Company, alleging the invalidity of said mortgage on
substantially the same grounds as those set up in the answer,
and praying that the mortgage mentioned in the original bill
might be declared fraudulent and void, and that the cloud
upon the title to the real estate of the bankrupt, Allen, created by the registry of the same, might be removed. The
defendants to the cross-bill filed their answer thereto, to which
Sherman, the assignee, filed the general replication.
It is unnecessary to state the pleadings in greater detail.
Proofs were taken ; and upon final hearing the Circuit Court
dismissed the original bill and made a decree in accordance
with the prayer of the cross-bill, declaring the mortgage to be
null and void, and cancelling the same. The appeal of the
complainants brings up this decree for our consideration.
The defendants in the court below contended that the mnortgage was void, because First, It was procured by fraud and used without the consent of Allen, and was given and received to hinder, delay, and
defraud his creditors.
Second, It was concealed and kept from the records from its
date until Jan. 19, 1875, and until after Allen failed, and that
such concealment gave him and the Cook County National
Bank a delusive and fictitious credit, thereby enabling him,
under the semblance of being the owner of a large amount of
unincumbered real estate, to deceive and mislead other persons
to give him credit which would otherwise have been withheld,
by reason of which he did contract debts after the giving
of this mortgage, now remaining unpaid, of a greater amount
than the value of the real estate covered by this mortgage.
Many of these debts were contracted by Allen, Stephens, &
Co. upon the representations of W. A. Stephens and H. Blennerhassett, members of said firm, while they held this"mortgage
in concealment ; that his real estate was a vast property and
was uninceumbered.

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNERHASSETT

V. SHERMIAN.

Third, This mortgage was a fraudulent preference under
the provisions of sects. 5128, 5129, and 5130a of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, under the title of bankruptcy
then in force.
Fourth, If the instrument was valid, it was given to secure
a debt of Allen, and not a debt of the Cook County National
Bank, and that he did not then, nor does he now, owe Allen,
Stephens, & Co. anything.
Fifth, If the advances were made by Allen, Stephens, & Co.
to the Cook County National Bank, such advances would create no valid debt against the said bank under sect. 5202 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States ; and being no debt
there can be no mortgage.
Sixth, The instrument is not a legal mortgage, for the reason
that it describes neither debt nor real estate.
The case was argued by lL'. C. C. Nourse and Mr. A. P.
fyde for the appellants, and by Mr. J. S. Polk and Mr. L. IL
Bisbee for the appellees.
Mn. JUSTICE WooDs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
After an attentive consideration of the evidence in this
case, much of which is conflicting and irreconcilable, we have
reached the conclusion that the mortgage, which is the basis
of the suit, is fraudulent and void at common law, because it
was accepted by Allen, Stephens, & Co., and used by them to
hinder, delay, and defraud the creditors of Allen, the mortgagor, and that it is also void under that section of the Bankrupt Act now embodied in the Revised Statutes of the United
States as sect. 5128.
We shall state the grounds of our conclusion as succinctly
as the case will admit. We are relieved from any discussion
of the question of the insolvency of Allen, the mortgagor, by
the admissions of counsel for the appellants. They concede,
and, in our judgment, the evidence abundantly shows, that he
was insolvent not only at the date of the mortgage, on Nov.
18, 1874, but also at the date of its registration, on Jan. 19,
1875. It is conceded that at the same dates the Cook County
National Bank was also insolvent. We may add to this con-

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

cession, what is perfectly clear from the evidence, that the
insolvency of both Allen and the bank was actual and absolute; that their assets were largely insufficient to pay their
debts.
In order to a clear understanding of the controversy between
the parties, it will be necessary to state generally the financial
history of Allen and of the firm of Allen, Stephens, & Co.,
of which he was the senior member prior to the date of the
mortgage.
Allen commenced business as a private banker in Des
Moines, Iowa, in 1856, and soon began dealing in Iowa lands.
lIe bought claims, made entries, and located them mainly in
Polk County, Iowa. The real estate of which he was seised at
the date of this mortgage had cost him $ 42,616, and that of
which he was seised on Jan. 18, 1875, had cost him $240,794.
Hle continued his business as a banker in Des Moines up to
a short time before the proceedings in bankruptcy were instituted against him. On Oct. 31, 1867, lie was appointed by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ioxw a
receiver in the case of Marie I1oward v. The City of Davenport,
then pending in that court, and as such there came into his
hands five hundred and forty-one bonds of $1,000 each of the
Chicago, Rock Island, & Pacific Railroad Company, and between
$90,000 and $100,000 in cash. The bonds bore seven per cent
interest per annum, which Allen collected as it fell due, amounting to $37,870 per annum. He continued the custodian of this
entire fund until May, 1873.
In 1868, according to his evidence, which is corroborated by
his books, his assets amounted to $1,641,017, and his liabilities,
including his indebtedness as receiver, amounted to $1,466,131,
leaving an excess of assets over liabilities of $174,886. Of
these assets $150,000 were invested in his house and furniture,
in addition to the cost of the land, one hundred and thirty
acres, on which his house stood.
It is, therefore, apparent that at the time mentioned he had
little or no available capital of his own with which to carry on
business. This state of his affairs caused him to succumb to
the temptation to use the trust assets in his possession as receiver. Towards the close of the year 1868 lie had deposited

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

a part of the Chicago, Rock Island, & Pacific Railroad bonds
(which we shall call, for the sake of brevity, Rock Island
bonds), which belonged to this trust fund, with Gilman Son
& Co., bankers in the city of New York, and borrowed upon
them, as collateral security, the sum of $55,000. At this
time Blennerhassett was the confidential clerk of Gilman
Son & Co.
On Nov. 2, 1868, Blennerhassett left that firm and became
a partner in the banking-house of George Opdyke & Co., in
which Stephens was already a partner. At the solicitation of
Blennerhassett, Allen, on Dec. 19, 1868, changed his account
from Gilman Son & Co. to George Opdyke & Co. During the
years 1869, 1870, and 1871, it is made clear by the letters of
Allen to Opdyke & Co., which appear in the record, that lie
was pressed for money and embarrassed. During this time he
was speculating largely in the stock of the Chicago, Rock
Island, & Pacific Railroad Company, and had used through
Opdyke & Co. a large part of the Rock Island bonds, which
belonged to the receiver fund in his possession.
In the fall of 1871 Stephens and Blennerhassett began negotiations with Allen with a view to a partnership between the
three to carry on the business of banking in the city of New
York, which resulted in the creation of the partnership of
Allen, Stephens, & Co., which began business on Jan. 1, 1872.
It was agreed that Allen should furnish the capital on which
the partnership was to do business. The amount named was
$50,000.
At this time Allen was largely insolvent, and neither Stephens nor Blennerhassett had any means. Allen never contributed any money or property to the partnership capitar.
Stephens and Blennerhassett were not reqnired by the partnership articles to pay anything, and they paid nothing. The
firm, therefore, started without any capital whatever; two of
the partners had no property, and the other owed more than
he could pay.
The complainant, the Charter Oak Life Insurance Company,
at once made a large deposit with the new firm, and in a few
days their deposits amounted to more than $200,000. With
the funds thus placed in their hands they paid the over-drafts

BLENNERHASSETT

V. SHERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

of Allen on Gilman Son & Co., and received from them the
securities which had been deposited with them by Allen,
namely, 168 Rock Island bonds of $1,000 each, certificates of
3,050 shares of stock of National State Bank of Des Moines,
and of 960 shares of First National Bank of Des Moines.
It is unnecessary to trace minutely the shifts and devices to
which Allen resorted to keep afloat. They are fully shown by
the record. On Oct. 7, 1872, it appears from a letter addressed
to him by Stephens for the firm of Allen, Stephens, & Co., that
he was indebted to the firm in the sun of $379,000, and the
security held by the firm was 416 Rock Island bonds. That
these were the bonds which belonged to the fund of which he
was receiver, the record leaves no doubt. He so testifies; and
there is no conflicting testimony, and his possession of so large
an amount of these bonds is not otherwise accounted for.
He at various times pledged all the bonds which belonged to
the receiver fund. They all passed through the bands of New
York brokers as collateral security for loans made to him. In
Jauary, 1873, all the Rock Island bonds held by him as receiver
were in the hands of a broker in New York, held by him as
security for advances made to Allen. This broker continued
to borrow upon them for Allen until July 1, 1873, when he
commenced selling, and continued to sell them until October,
1873, before which nearly all were disposed of, some of them at
quite low prices.
During the months of February, March, and April, 1873,
Allen paid the broker who negotiated these loans for him the
sum of $43,000 extra interest over and above seven per cent
on the loans.
° Before May, 1873, it fairly appears from the evidence that
Allen's losses had entirely consumed the receiver fund. In the
month just mentioned he was ordered to pay into court by the
middle of July the 541 bonds of $1,000 each, which had come
into his hands as receiver, or their equivalent in money. The
residue of the fund, amounting to about $300,000, was to be
paid in May of the following year. He was in a desperate
strait, and resorted to desperate means to save himself. On
May 30, 1873, he purchased $275,000 of the stock of the Cook
County National Bank of Chicago, Illinois, which gave him the

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNERtI ASSETT V. SHERMAN.

control of the bank. Ile paid for a large part of this stock by
his checks on the bank, and the residue by a check oil Allen,
Stephens, & Co.
Having thus obtained the control of the Cook County Bank,
which had a deposit of $1,300,000, he paid the $541,000 demanded of him as a part of the receiver fund, mainly by his
checks on the bank. At this time the larger part of the
receiver's bonds had been sold and their proceeds applied to
the payment of moneys borrowed by him in New York on
the pledge of the bonds.
In the fall of 1873 he bought an interest in the New York
State Loan and Trust Company. His purchases of stock in
that institution amounted to nearly $200,000. He paid for
this stock by giving his notes and a check on the Cook County
Bank. His object in making this purchase, as lie states it, was
to get control of the institution, and be enabled thereby " to
carry his assets until lie could realize on them." In other
words, he bought the stock on credit with a view to get in his
hands the cash assets of the Trust Company.
During the panic of September, 1873, the Cook County
Bank lost $100,000 by the purchase of worthless drafts drawn
by one Badger. The bank suspended a short time, but sooni
resumed.
During the fall of 1873, the private bank of Allen at Des
Moines, and the National State Bank of Des Moines, in which
lie was a large stockholder, were both overdrawn with the
house of Allen, Stephens, & Co. They were both hard pressed
for money.
In January, 1874, Allen sold, through the house of Allen,
Stephens, & Co., to the Charter Oak Life Insurance Company,
bills receivable, " in the shape of mortgag'es," drawn from his
private bank in Des Moines, to the amount of $114,000. This
money all passed through the books of his private bank ;lt
Des Moines.
In May, 1874, the house of Allen, Stephens, & Co. made a
loan of $400,000 to two men of the name of Iussey and Gisbourne, and took for security a deed of trust to Stephens upon
a silver mine, called the Mono mine, in Utah Territory. The
Charter Oak Life Insurance Company took one-third of this

BLENNERIASSETT V. SU[IERIMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

loan off the hands of Allen, Stephens, & Co. The mine proved
worthless, and the entire loan was a total loss, taking from
Allen, Stephens, & Co. $266,666. This largely exceeded all
the profits made by the firm since it commenced business, and
left it insolvent.
In October, 1874, it was arranged between Allen and the
Charter Oak Life Insurance Company, the negotiation therefor
having been carried on through Allen, Stephens, & Co., that
lie should make his twelve notes for $25,000, payable in five
years from date, and deliver the same to the company, and
secure the same by pledge of mortgage notes, stocks, and
bonds. The company was to advance to Allen $300,000 on
the notes so secured. Allen, on Oct. 24, 1874, made his notes
accordingly, and delivered them to Allen, Stephens, & Co. for
the company, and the company sent $300,000 of its paper to
Allen, Stephens, & Co. to be used for his benefit. His notes
were secured by the pledge of mortgage notes, amounting to
$277,041; by Cook County Bank stock, $70,000; New York
State Loan and Trust Company stock, $100,000; National
State Bank of Des Moines stock, $30,000; and county bonds,
$500 ; amounting in all to $478,000.
On the same day Allen, for himself, executed to Allen,
Stephens, & Co. a paper-writing, in which he authorized them,
in case lie became indebted to them for loans or advances, or
liabilities assumed by them for him, to sell, without notice
to him, any property, things in action, collateral securities belonging to him and held by them, or to hypothecate the same
and use their proceeds towards the payment of such indebtedness and the interest. On the same dqv he, as president of
the Cook County Bank, executed and delivered to Allen,
Stephens, & Co. a similar paper.
Between the date of his appointment as receiver, and Oct.
24, 1874, Allen had sustained, great losses. In 1871 he had
lost by stock speculations in New York City $200,000.
ie
had lost $50,000 by a subscription to the Canada Southern Railroad. He built for a church society at Des Moines a church
edifice, in which was tied up the sum of $60,000, and which
afterwards resulted in a loss of $50,000. In 1878 and 1874 he
bad lost $200,000 as a member of the firm of B. F. Murphy &

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

Co., and $75,000 as a member of the firm of H. M. Bush & Co.,
and $30,000 in the firm of Lewis & Stephens. In swamp, coal,
Ie lost in corn specuand mountain lands he lost $61,000.
lations in Chicago and in property in the towns of South
Evanston, Ill., and Sheffield, Ind,, $92,000. Ile sunk $35,000
in the stock of the Toledo, Wabash, and Western Railroad
Company, and lost $30,000 in the firm of A. T. Andreas &
Co., and $10,000 invested in the Grand Pacific Hotel in Chicago. Besides his residence and furniture at Des Moines,
which cost him $150,000, he had invested in a residence in
Chicago $50,000. His actual losses amounted to over a million dollars, and he had $200,000 invested in unproductive real
estate. It is true so inveterate a speculator sometimes made a
fortunate venture, but his losses were greatly in excess of his
gains.
The mortgage on which this suit is founded was given on
Nov. 18, 1874. On that day the firm of Allen, Stephens, &
Co. was insolvent, and Stephens and Blennerhassett must have
known it. Their profits, since Jan. 1, 1872, when the partnership was formed, lind not exceeded $200,000. They began
with no capital. Both Stephens and Blennerhassett had drawn
out their share of the profits. Allen's share remained, which
was one-third, and amounted to about $66,000. The loss of
the firm in the Mono mine loan was $266,000, leaving a deficit
of $200,000. As already stated, it is conceded that at the date
of the mortgage both Allen and the Cook County Bank
were insolvent. But they were not merely insolvent, but
irretrievably so.
On that day Allen 6wed the depositors in his private bank
at Des Moines $736,783, he owed the Cook County Bank
$557,943, the Charter Oak Life Insurance Company $300,000,
the Newark Savings Institution of Newark, N. J., $200,000,
making an aggregate of $1,794,726. At the same time, placing a liberal estimate on the value of his assets, they did
not exceed $800,000, leaving a deficit of $994,727, which
other smaller items of indebtedness shown by the record
would swell to more than a million dollars, the excess of
his liabilities above his assets. The condition of the Cook
County Bank on the same day may be approximately ascervoL xv.

8

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

tained from the following facts: On Nov. 18, 1874, its books
showed its indebtedness to be $1,891,620. The receiver of
the bank testifying on Aug. 26, 1876, said that he had admitted and given certificates for claims against the bank to
the amount of $803,035, that other claims had been presented
to the amount of $915,000, for which receiver's certificates had
not been given, and that the amount collected from its assets
was $92,000. The cash on hand when the receiver took possession was $4,000.
Such was the condition of the firm of Allen, Stephens, & Co.,
Allen, and the Cook County Bank when the mortgage in suit
was executed.
There are several propositions of fact which, in our opinion,
the evidence satisfactorily shows. A statement and discussion
of the evidence which sustains them would extend this opinion
beyond reasonable limits, and would not be profitable.
First, Allen when he gave the mortgage, and Stephens and
Blennerhassett when they took it, knew that both he and
the Cook County Bank were insolvent. A large part of the
correspondence between Stephens and Blennerhassett and the
firm of Allen, Stephens, & Co. on the one hand, and Allen on
the other, commencing before the partnership of Allen, Stephens, & Co. was formed, down to the date of the mortgage, is
to be found in the record. The record also contains the correspondence between the firm and the Cook County Bank, and
many letters written by the firm, in the interest of Allen, and
much correspondence between Stephens and Blennerhassett.
This evidence shows that both he and the Cook County Bank
were on the verge of suspension from the time when lie was
compelled to replace the bonds intrusted to him as receiver,
down to the date of the mortgage in November, 1874, and the
suspension of payment by him and the bank in January, 1875.
It also brings home to Stephens and Blennerhassett the knowledge of the desperate shifts and devices to which he and the
bank were driven to meet their engagements, and keep the fact
of their utter bankruptcy froni the knowledge of the public. It
is impossible that men of much less business experience and
intelligence than they are shown to be should know what
they (lid of the resources and practices of Allen and the

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNERHASSETT v. SHERMAN.

Cook County Bank, and not have known of the insolvency
of both.
Notice of his insolvency was also brought home to Stephens
and Blennerhassett by their knowledge of the fact that he had
appropriated to his own schemes and speculations a fund which,
principal and interest, amounted to over $800,000, committed
to his custody as a trustee and receiver. The evidence that
they knew of the fact of his appointment as receiver, the
amount of the fund which came to his hands, and the appropriation of the fund to his own uses is conclusive.
During the sixty days which elapsed between the date of the
mortgage and its registration, the proofs of the insolvency of
Allen and the Cook County Bank accumulated, and Stephens
and Blennerhassett knew that the insolvency was hopeless and
irretrievable.
Second, The record shows that the mortgage covered all the
property of Allen. His personal property had long been exhausted, and his real estate was all that remained which was
not pledged for his debts.
Third, In order that the credit of Allen and the Cook County
Bank might not be impaired, the mortgage was purposely withheld from record, and activQly concealed by Stephens and
Blennerhassett until after the suspension of both Allen and
the Cook County Bank on Jan. 18, 1875.
Blennerhassett testifies that after its execution he disposed
of the mortgage as follows: " I put it in our safe, and kept it
there until December 1, when I gave it in a sealed parcel to
A. N. Denman. I said to Dennman something like this: 'Here is
a sealed package which contains instructions and valuable documents; you will go to Chicago, take quarters at some hotel
there, and remain there, never leaving the hotel for any great
length of time ; and should a telegram come, you are to open
that parcel and obey instructions.' "
The instructions directed Denman, when ordered by telegram to act, to have the mortgage recorded in Chicago, and
then catch the first train for Des Moines, Iowa, and have it
recorded there, &c.
On Jan. 18, 1875, Allen and the Cook County Bank both
suspended. On the next day Allen, Stephens, & Co. sent a

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

[SLIP.

Ct.

telegram to Denman at Chicago, as follows: "Open your
instructions and act." Denman opened his instructions and
followed them. He filed the mortgage for record in Chicago
on January 19, and in Des Moines on January 20.
Fourth, While the mortgage was thus kept from the record
and from public knowledge, Stephens and Blennerhassett were
busily engaged in sustaining the credit of Allen and the Cook
County Bank, and, to accomplish their end, falsely and fraudulently represented him to be a man worth over a million of
dollars, and of unlimited credit, and the Cook County Bank to
be sound and good.
Fifth, That by means of these representations of Stephens
and Blennerhassett, and the concealment of the mortgage, and
the withholding of it from the record, the creditors of Allen
and the Cook County Bank were misled and deceived, and in
consequence thereof they did, between the date and the registration of the mortgage, deposit large sums of money in Allen's
private bank at Des Moines, and in the Cook County Bank,
and, at the instance of Stephens and Blennerhassett, discounted
the paper of Allen and the Cook County Bank to a large
amount, and that such deposits and discounts, though due, still
remain unpaid.
Sixth, That the mortgage was made by Allen, who was insolvent, with a view to give a preference to the firm of Allen,
Stephens, & Co., the firm being a creditor of Allen individually,
and the firm and all its members having reasonable cause to
believe him to be insolvent, and knowing that the mortgage
was made in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt Act, and
it was withheld from the record and actively concealed for the
period of two months preceding the failure of Allen and the
filing of the petition in bankruptcy against him, for the purpose of protecting it from assault as a preference void under
the provisions of the Bankrupt Act.
There is a large mass of evidence in the record, which in
our opinion establishes the truth of the foregoing propositions
beyond controversy. The new debts which were contracted
by Allen and the Cook County Bank, after the date of the
mortgage and before its registration, on the strength of the
representations of Stephens nd Blennerhassett, and the fact

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

that Allen's property appeared to be unincumbered, amounted
to a larger sum than the value of the real estate covered by the
mortgage.
By the aid of the means thus obtained, Stephens and Blennerbassett were able to stave off the suspension of Allen and
the Cook County Bank for a period of exactly two months
after the date of the mortgage.
They, doubtless, supposed
this lapse of time would render the mortgage proof against
any attack by an assignee in bankruptcy of his estate. He
and the bank were then allowed to fail, and the mortgage was
placed on record.
Upon this state of facts we are of opinion that the mortgage
was a fraud upon the creditors of Allen, and, therefore, void
at common law and without regard to the provisions of the
Bankrupt Act.
It is not to be disputed that, except as forbidden by the
bankrupt law, a debtor has the right to prefer one creditor
over another, and that the vigilant creditor is entitled to the
advantage secured by his watchfulness and attention to his
own interests. Neither can it be denied that the mere failure
to record a mortgage is not a ground for setting it aside for
the benefit of subsequent creditors who have acquired no specific lien on the property described in the mortgage.
But where a mortgagee, knowing that his mortgagor is insolvent, for the purpose of giving him a fictitious credit actively
conceals the mortgage which covers his entire estate and withholds it from the record, and while so concealing it represents
the mortgagor as having a large estate and unlimited credit,
and by these means others are induced to give him credit, and
he fails and is unable to pay the debts thus contracted, the
mortgage will be declared fraudulent and void at common law,
whether the motive of the mortgagee be gain to himself or
advantage to his mortgagor.
It is not enough, in order to support a settlement against
creditors, that it be made for a valuable consideration. It
must be also bona fide. If it be made with intent to hinder,
delay, or defraud them, it is void as against them, although
there may be in the strictest sense a valuable or even an adequate consideration. Twyne's Case, 3 Rep. 80; Holmes v.

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Penney, 3 Kay & J. 90; Gragg v. Martin, 12 Allen (Mass.),
498; Brady v. Briseoe, 2 J. J. Marsh. (Ky.) 212; Bozman v.
Draughan, 3 Stew. (Ala.) 243; 17arm ers' Banc v. Douglass,
11 Smed. & M. (Miss.) 469; Bunn v. Ahl, 29 Pa. St. 387; Root
v. Reynolds, 32 Vt. 139; IKempner v."Churchill, 8 Wall. 362;
Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 200.
As long ago as the case of Hungeiford v. Earle (2 Vern.
261), it was held that " a deed not at first fraudulent may
afterwards become so by being concealed or not pursued, by
which means creditors are drawn in to lend their money."
This doctrine has been repeatedly reaffirmed. Hildreth v.
Sands, 2 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 35; Scrivenor v. Scrivenor, 7 B.
Mon. (Ky.) 374; Banc of the United States v. IIousman,
6 Paige (N. Y.), 526.
In Coates v. Gerlach (44 Pa. St. 43), a deed of land had
been made directly by a husband to his wife. The deed bore
date March 23, 1857, but was not filed for record until Dec. 2,
1857. On Jan. 21, 1858, the husband, professing to act for
his wife, sold the land to a third party.' The creditors of the
husband attached the unpaid part of the purchase-money in
the bands of the vendees, and between them and the wife a
contest arose on the question which had the better right to the
proceeds of the sale. Touching this controversy, Mr. Justice
Strong, delivering the opinion of the court, said: " There is
another aspect of the case not at all favorable to the wife. It
is that she withheld the deed of her husband from record until
Dec. 2, 1857. In asking that a deed void at law should be
sustained in equity, she is met with the fact that she asserted
no right under it, in fact concealed its existence until after her
husband had contracted the debts against which she now seeks
to set it up. There appears to have been no abandonment of
possession by the husband. Even if the deed was delivered
on the day of its date, the supineness of the wife gave to. tie
husband a false credit, and equity will not aid her at the expense of those who have been misled by her laches."
So in Hilliard v. Cagle (46 Miss. 309), it was held that a
deed of trust in the nature of a mortgage, valid on its face, and
not made or received with any intent to defeat existing or future
creditors, may nevertheless be held to be fraudulent and void

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

as to all creditors, existing and future, by evidence aliunde,
showing the conduct of the parties in their dealings in reference to the deed. The principal circumstance relied on in
this case to avoid the deed was the fact that the grantor retained possession of the property and the deed was withheld
from record, and the mortgagor was thereby enabled to contract debts upon the presumption that the property was unincumbered. The court declared that " the natural and logical
effect of the agreement and assignment, and the conduct of the
parties thereto, was to mislead and deceive the public, and
induce credit to be given to the mortgagor, which he could
not have obtained if the truth had been known, and, therefore,
the whole scheme was fraudulent as to subsequent creditors,
as much so as if it had been contrived from that motive and
for that object."
In the case of Gill v. Griffith & Schley (2 Md. Ch. 270),
the court decided that a party cannot be permitted to take
a bill of sale or mortgage of chattels from another for his ownii
security, leave the mortgagor in possession and ostensibly
the owner, and -t his request and to keep the public from a
knowledge of its existence withhold it from record for an indefinite period, renewing it periodically, and then receive the
benefit of it by placing the last renewal upon record, to the
prejudice of others whom the possession and ostensible ownership of that very property by the mortgagor have induced to
confide in him. The mortgage which was in controversy in
Upon appeal, the
this case was, therefore, declared void.
court of appeals affirmed the decree for the reasons assigned
by the Chancellor. See note of the reporter at the end of the
case.
So in the case of Ilafner v. Irwin (1 ied. (N. C.) L. 490),
which grew out of the making of a deed of trust by one Dwight
to the plaintiff Hafner, to secure certain creditors named
thereon, it was said :" There was evidence tending to show that it was a condition of this instrument, and as understood between the parties
thereto, that it should not be registered nor put in use, but
kept a secret from the world until after the 20th of February
ensuing the date .... There was also evidence tending to

120

BLENNERHASSETT V. SHERMAN.

[Sup. CL.

show that it was a further part of the agreement between the
parties that the transaction should be kept secret, at all events

until the debtor should escape beyond the reach of the process
of his creditors. . . . We need not and cannot lay down as
a rule of law that those who take securities from a debtor

about to abscond must apprise creditors of his intention to
place himself beyond their reach, under penalty of forfeiting
such securities; but we feel ourselves justified in holding that,
when secrecy is part of the consideration of such securities,
the securities are contaminated thereby, and ought not to be
regarded as given onaide."
In HIildebnrn v. Brown (17 B. Mon. (Ky.) 779), a mortgage
was executed by one Sherrod to the plaintiffs, which they
withheld from record. Commenting on that fact, the court
said: -

"The petition of appellants avows that the arrangement
between their agents and Sherrod was to withhold the mortgage from registration, for the purpose of sustaining the latter

in business, and ' not to record the same unless there was danger of Sherrod's failure.' . . . The effect of the arrangement,

though it may not have originated in any actual fraudulent or
evil purpose, was to secrete from the public eye the true condition of the debtor, and thereby enable him, under the semblance of being the owner of unincumbered real estate, to
deceive and mislead other persons by inducing them, upon the
faith of his supposed unembarrassed condition, to give him
credit which would otherwise have been withheld. Such contrivances or acts, though not designed to perpetrate an actual
fraud upon other persons, have an inevitable tendency that
way, and are obviously opposed to the general policy of the
law requiting the public registration of all liens and incumbrances upon property permitted to be retained and claimed
by debtors.
"If not directly within that class of acts which the law
denominates constructive frauds, it approximates so nearly to
it that the party avowing himself a participant in such transaction ought not to receive the countenance or aid of the
Chancellor in enforcing any lien or claim growing out of it
as against a third person."

Oct. 1881.]

BLENNERHASSETT

V. SHERMAN.

Neslin v. Wells (104 U. S. 428) arose in the Territory of
Utah, where the law permitted, but did not require, the registration of mortgages, but where there was a general custom to
record such instruments. Neslin, the vendor of land, took
from Smith, his vendee, a mortgage to secure a part of the
purchase-money, but did not file it for record until after a subsequent mortgage executed by the vendee on the same land, to
one Kerr, had been filed for record, Kerr having no notice,
actual or constructive, of the prior mortgage to Neslin. It
was held by the court, Mr. Justice Matthews delivering its
opinion, that, "under the circumnstances of the case, there arose
a duty on the part of Neslin, the vendor, to record his purchase-money mortgage, towards all who might become subsequent purchasers for value in good faith, a breach of which in
respect to Kerr, the subsequent mortgagee, without notice,
constituted such negligence and laches as in equity requires
that the loss which in consequence thereof must fall on one of
the two, shall be borne by him by whose fault it was occasioned."
See also Worseley v. De Mattos, 1 Burr. 467, and Tarbaec
v. Jarbury, 2 Vern. 510.
The principles upon which these decisions are based are, in
our opinion, conclusive of this case. None of the cases cited
disclose such a premeditated and contrived purpose to deceive
and defraud other creditors of the mortgagor as appears in
this. We are of opinion, therefore, that the mortgage executed by Allen to Allen, Stephens, & Co., on Nov. 18, 1874,
which the complainants in this case seek to foreclose, is a
fraud upon the creditors of Allen, and void at common law.
We further declare that a mortgage executed by an insolvent debtor, with intent to give a preference to his creditor,
who has reasonable cause to believe him to be insolvent, and
knows it to be made in fraud of the provisions of the Bankrupt
Act, and who, for the purpose of evading the provisions of that
act, actively conceals and withholds it from record for two
months, is void under the Bankrupt Act, notwithstanding the
fact that it was executed more than two months before the
filing of a petition in bankruptcy by or against the mortgagor.
If the mortgage had been executed within the period of two

MCCORMICK v. KNOX.

[Sup. Ct.

months next before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, it
would have been void under the letter of the Bankrupt Act.
Where all the other circumstances necessary to render it
void concur, the device of concealing it until the two months
have elapsed cannot save it. It is, notwithstanding the lapse
of time, a fraud on the policy and objects of the bankrupt law,
and is void as against its spirit.
The conduct of the nortgagees in this case shows them to
be without claim to the consideration of a court of equity.
On the contrary, it clearly appears to be the duty of the court
to take care that they shall not reap the fruits of their fraudulent practices. Their assignee of the mortgage, the Charter
Oak Life Insurance Company, stands in no stronger position.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GrAY

did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

McCoRMIcK v. KNox.
A., whose debt was secured by deed of trust on lands, purchased tbem when, in
default of payment, they were offered at a public sale by the trustee, and on
taking a deed therefor entered into possession thereof, lie subsequently paid
off a prior lieu. On a bill filed by a junior incumbraneer, the court granted
the latter the right to redeem on his paying to A. the debt and the money
expended in discharging the older ineunibraace, with interest, and also the
amount paid for taxes, repairs, and insurance, less the rents and profits while
A. was in possession. Held, that the decree is correct.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The pleadings and evidence in this case disclose the following
state of facts: Prior to Oct. 3, 1871, R. W. Bruff was the owner in fee of
certain real estate in the city of Washington. On the day
just mentioned he executed to Albert J. Meyer his promissory
note of that date for $5,000, payable in five years, and secured
it by a deed of trust on the property, with power of sale, to
one Winier as trustee. On June 29, 1872, Bruff conveyed the
property to Mary J. Wheeler, who on July 1, 1872, for his
APPEAL

