Oct. 1881.]

MARSlI V. MCPHERSON.

709

against the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, a purchaser
for valuable consideration, having notice, it may be, of the
existence of the mortgages to Richardson and Stevenson, but
without notice of any facts which in equity would subordinate
to them the rights acquired by the sheriff's sale to Fulkerson.
For these reasons the decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmned.

MARSH V. MCPHERSON.
1. The recital in the contract (irfa, p. 711), that the vendors "hereby deliver
said machines at the places named in the list" to the vendee, passes to hiiii
the title and right of possession, but does not prove a delivery of actual
possession.
2. If the machines were not delivered at the stipulated time and places, or were
not then in a proper condition, proof that they were subsequently delivered,
or that the vendee, after accepting them, permitted the vendors to make the
requisite repairs and additions thereto, is admissible to reduce his damages
for a breach of the contract.
3. In case of a total failure by the vendors to perform the contract, the vendee is
entitled to recover the amount wherewith lie, ait the time of the breach,
could have purchased machines of equal value; if those delivered were
defective, the measure of his damages is the actual cost of supplying the

deficiency.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
ERROt
District of Nebraska.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Jefferson -f. Broady for the plaintiffs in error.
M1b' John L. Webster for the defendant in error.

MR. JusTIcE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought Jan. 15, 1878, by John McPherson,
against James S. Marsh and Elisha C. Marsh, to recover
damages for the breach of a contract under seal for the sale
of certain real and personal property. On Oct. 16, 1877, a
written agreement was entered into, by which he, in consideration of their covenants, agreed to sell and convey to them certain described real estate in Nebraska, and, in addition thereto,

one-half the stock of goods in a store belonging to him, on a

MARSH V. MCPHERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

parcel of the real estate. They covenanted on their part to
pay for the real estate as follows: For one parcel, $18,190.37,
in combined reapers and mowers and self-rakers, known as the
Valley Chief, to be taken, those designated as No. 1 at $175 each,
and No. 2 at $170 each, to be delivered, eighty-six machines of
No. 1, and twenty of No. 2, at certain named points in different
parts of the State and in Kansas, "all the said machines to be
delivered in good condition, and free of all incumbrances, of
taxes, and of charges for freight, each machine to have two
smooth sickles and one sickle-edge sickle." In the agreement,
the freight on each machine from the manufactory at Lewisburg, Penn., was estimated at $25, and in all cases when
it fell below that sum the difference was to be accounted
for and paid. The store property was to be paid for in cash
and notes, and the remainder of the real estate at $3,600, in
machines of another description at $175 each, " to be delivered
in good condition, free of incumbrances," as before in respect
to the others, at certain other named places, being eleven machines at Beatrice, Neb., and the remainder of this lot on
board of cars at the factory at Lewisburg, consigned to him or
to his order.
At the time of the execution of this agreement, the machines,
it is alleged by the plaintiff in his petition, were in the possession of the agents of the defendants at the various points ; that
they were in bad condition, and subject to incumbrances and
charges ; that the defendants failed and refused to deliver them,
although he had fully performed his covenants, by conveying the
real estate and delivering the goods ; and that the machines, in
the condition required by the contract, were worth the agreed
value of $21,775. To recover this amount, with an additional
sum for an ascertained difference of freight, the suit was
brought in the State court. By reason of the citizenship of
the parties, it was, on the petition of the defendants, removed
for trial into the Circuit Court.
The defendants, in their answer, admit the execution of the
agreement set out in the petition, but allege that it was fully
executed, fulfilled, and superseded by a subsequent agreement
in writing between the parties, indorsed on it, and dated Nov. 5,
1877, in the words following, to wit: -

Oct. 1881.]

MARSH V. MCPHEIRSON.

"'BROWNVILLE, NEBRASKA, November 5th, 1877.
"The above contract is this day executed by the said parties
thereto as follows: The within-named real estate is conveyed by
said first party (McPherson) to said second parties (Marsh and
Marsh) ; also one-half of said stock of goods at an invoice in the
sum of four thousand and two hundred and forty-three and 10-100
dollars, making price of the half, four thousand two hundred and
forty-three and 10-100 ($4,243.10) dollars, is delivered by McPherson to said parties, Marsh and Marsh.
"The said second parties, Marsh and Marsh, hereby acknowledge
payment of all said machines named in the list within named, aggregating eighty-six nunber ones, twenty number twos, and hereby
deliver all thereof to said first party at the places named in said
within list (except there is two instead of one at Do mbrag,. and
three instead of four at Wahoo, which change is consented to by
the parties) free and clear of all liens, charges, or taxes, up to and
including taxes for the year 1878, as per within contract. Said
second parties also hereby deliver to said first party eleven of
said machines within named, called Marsh number four, as provided for within and on the within-named terms therefor, at
Beatrice. On this, eleven machines, number four, there is two
hundred and seventy-five dollars freight in favor of said second
parties, to whom said first party shall account therefor as hereinafter stated.
The balance of $259.63 on the said list of number ones and number twos, and the said eleven number fours, amounting to $1,925,
is applied on the purchase price of said lands in Sonora Island,
leaving balance of $1,415.37, for which said second parties shall
deliver, as provided for within, eight of said machines number tour
on board the cars in Pennsylvania, at place within named, leaving
still a balance on said purchase price of island real estate of $U-.37
in fovor of said first party, to whom the second parties shall account. As soon as the amount due said first party on freights of
said number ones and twos are hscertainod, the same, with the said
$275 due second parties, and said $15.37 due said first party, shall
be settled and adjusted by the parties. Said eight number fours to
be delivered within thirty days after notice to second parties. Said
second parties hereby warrant that said eighty-six number ones
and twenty number twos and eleven number fours are now at the
places above named in condition for delivery as above and within
provided for, and that said eight number fours shall be delivered

MARSH V. MCPHERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

iis above stated, and shall stand good to said first party for any
breaches or failures of such warranty and promise.
"On said store goods one thousand dollars is paid to said first
p)arty, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, and the balance
shall be paid according to the within contract.
" JOHN MCPnIERSON.

"JAMEs S. iMARsn.
" E. C. MARISH."
On the contract is the following indorsement by the plaintiff:"Received of said second parties, Marsh and Marsh, in full payment and settlement of said balance due fbr said store goods, after
said payment of one thousand dollars, the fbllowing described notes
of this date, made by James S. Marsh, to my order, to wit, one for
$1,056.44, one fbr $915.72, one for $685.47, and one for $585.47, in
all four several promissory notes for said amounts, all due December 1, 1877, with interest at ten per cent per annum after maturity.
"November 7, 1877.
"JOHN McPHERsoN.
(Signed)
"Witness: Wm. H. Hoovxn."
The defendants also allege performance of the contract, and
aver that the said transactions between the plaintiff and them
were neither sales of his lands and goods nor of their machines,
"but were barters of the property of one in exchange for the
property of the others, in which the prices fixed were largely
in excess of cash prices, so much so that neither would have
bought the property of the other for cash at such prices, and
that the naming of the prices in the transaction was nothing
more than a matter of convenience in executing the exchange."
They further aver as to the eight Marsh No. 4 reapers to
be delivered on board cars at .Lewisburg, Penn.., three had
been delivered, and that as to the remainder, they have been
ready and willing to do so, on the order of the plaintiff, but
that he has neglected to do so, but that they hold the same
for him.
The answ'er also contains the following : " Defendants admit that after the making of said agreement
in November, 1877, defendants told plaintiff that they (the

Oct. 1881.]

MARSH V. MCPHERSON.

defendants) would visit each of the points named in said writing where said machines then were, and at which places they
were delivered as stated in said writing, and if any agents
were not settled with, or any liens or charges were claimed
against any of said machines, would make settlement with
their said agents then and theretofore having charge of said
agricultural machines, and would pay off and discharge all
unpaid claims and liens of any and every kind and sort upon
each and all of said machines,'and put in good repair each and
all of the said machines, so as to have the same conform to
the conditions of said agreement and warranty in writing, but
deny that they ever so stated until after said writing of
November, 1877, or that they told plaintiff that they would do
so at once, but aver that they stated that they would do so in
a reasonable time to have them so repaired and in good condition for the first season and time for selling reapers and
mowers ; which season, defendants aver, was the latter part of
the spring of 1878, continuing from thence through the summer
of 1878, and aver that said promise was to so repair and fit
up said reapers and mowers ready for the harvest of small
grains in the year 1878, and for the sales for such harvest,
which time commenced about May, 1878, and continued during such harvest ; all of which was agreed to between the parties hereto as satisfactory, as making good the warranty of
defendants in said agreement dated Nov. 5, 1877, all of which
said promises these defendants have fully performed and complied with, and have previous to said time and previous to the
commencement of the reaper and mower trade for 1878, and
previous to April, 1878, visited each of the points named in
said writing, dated Oct. 6, 1877, where said machines then
were, and made settlements with their agents then and there
having charge of said agricultural machines, where settlements
had not already and heretofore been made with such agents,
and paid off and discharged all claims and liens of every, kind
and sort upon each and all of said machines, and put in good
condition and repair each and all of said machines, wherever
any such claim or liens were unpaid, and wherever any of said
machines were not in good condition or were out of repair, and
had all said machines as aforesaid discharged of all claims and

MARSH V. MCPHERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

liens of any and every sort, and in good repair and condition
for the 1878 market, in due time for such market and pursuant
to such promise."
The cause was tried by jury, and there was a verdict for
the plaintiff. Judgment was rendered thereon, to reverse
which this writ of error is prosecuted.
There are thirty-three assignments of error, based on exceptions to the rulings of the court upon questions of evidence,
and upon instructions to the jury, either given, or asked and
ref used; but it will not be necessary to refer to them in
detail.
The chief issues between the parties, raised by the pleadings
and maintained in evidence, were, whether there had been a
delivery of possession of the machines by Marsh and Marsh to
McPherson, and whether there had been a breach of the wvarranty, that they were in a good condition at the places named,
and free from all liens and charges.
Upon the point whether there had in fact been a delivery of
actual possession by the defendants to the plaintiff, of all or of
any of the machines, there seems to be some confusion. The
bill of exceptions, of course, and properly, does not set out all
the evidence, but the court, in its general charge, stated to the
jury, " that the plaintiff admits that all the machines had been
delivered to him." From the context, it would appear that
the contract of Nov. 5, 1877, is treated as an admission to that
effect, as to all machines that were in fact at the places named,
without respect to their condition ; based, no doubt, upon the
expression contained in the instrument, by which it is declared
that said second parties, Marsh and Marsh, hereby acknowledge payment of all said machines, &c., and hereby deliver all
thereof to said first party at the places named in said within
list, &c., free and clear of all liens, charges, or taxes, &c. The
contract undoubtedly had the effect to pass the title to the
machines from Marsh and Marsh to McPherson, and the right
of possession ; but whether the purchaser obtained actual possession could not be conclusively inferred from the contract
merely. If the declaration in that instrument of the fact of
delivery could have that effect, it would be equally conclusive
that they were free of incumbrances, for that is also stated in

Oct. 1881.]

MARSH v. McPHERSON.

the same connection. It might have been that the machines
were in the places mentioned in the contract and in the condition required; yet the defendants might have refused to deliver actual possession ; if so, they would, of course, be liable
in damages.
The bill of exceptions recites that "during the trial, evidence
having been admitted tending to prove that many of the nachines named in the contracts copied in the pleadings were not
in as good condition as called for in the said contracts, and
were not supplied with all the pieces specified in the contracts,
and that in some instances the whole machine was missing, and
what the values of such deficient or impaired machines in the
condition in which they then were and the difference in their
values, in such condition, and the condition called for by the
contract, and also on the part of the defendants that defendants had made repairs on some machines and supplied deficiencies and missing machines since the commencement of this
action, and the value thereof," the court, at the request of the
plaintiff, gave to the jury the following instruction: " The jury is instructed that they are not permitted to take
into account or make any allowance or reductions from the
damages of the plaintiff for repairs of any kind made upon the
machines or supplies furnished for them after Nov. 5, 1877, all
such acts on their part being without authority ; and the plaintiff is entitled to recover the full measure of his damages as if
no such repairs had ever been made."
This charge is clearly erroneous. In the first place, it assumes the fact that the acts referred to, of making repairs and
furnishing supplies, were without authority. It cannot be denied that, if authorized, they would have to be considered ; and
whether authorized or not was, at least, one of the questions of
fact involved in the issues to be tried, on which it was the duty
of the jury to pass. For the defendants had set up in their
answer what they claimed to be an agreement with the plaintiff, by which they were to have until the spring of 1878 in
which to make good their warranty as to the condition of the
machines. Whether this agreement for an extension of time,
not acted on, could be pleaded as a bar to the action for a
breach of the contract, is not the question. It was, if proved,

MARSH v. MCPHERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

and if repairs were actually made in pursuance of it, certainly
good as proof that they were made with the consent and authority of the plaintiff. And as the bill of exceptions recites
that evidence was offered to maintain the issues, by both parties, it is not to be assumed that there was none in support of
this claim.
But independently of this alleged agreement, it was certainly
competent for the defence to show that, after the date of the
second contract, the machines were put in the good condition
required by it, and were then delivered to and accepted by the
plaintiff; for if he accepted the machines after the time when
they should have been delivered, or if, after receiving them, he
permitted repairs to be made or supplies to be furnished, and
accepted the benefit of them, le certainly cannot claim that lie
has been damaged by a breach of the contract to the same extent as if nothing had been done to make good his loss.
It is a rule of law, without exception so far as we are aware,
that any circumstance, otherwise competent in evidence to reduce the damages, may be proven on the trial for that purpose,
although it may not have come into existence until after the
commencement of the action.
The court, also, at the request of the plaintiff, gave to the
jury the following charges:10. "The jury is instructed that the plaintiff is entitled to
recover for any machines which were not at the places named
at the time of the making of the contract of Nov. 5, 1877, the
price of said machines as fixed in the contract; and if you find
that the defendants failed to deliver any of the machines to be
delivered at Lewisburg, Penn., after demand made by plaintiff,
the plaintiff is entitled to recover the contract price of such
machines." And, also, 11. " On such machines as were delivered to the plaintiff, lie is entitled to recover for any defects
in quality or condition, and the measure of his damages is the
difference between the value of such machines in the condition
in which they then were and the contract price."
And refused to give, on the request of the defendants, the
following:The jury are instructed that if they find there was any
breach of the warranty named in the contract of Nov. 5, 1877,

Oct. 1881.],

MARSI v. MCPHERSON.

that the measure of damages for such breach is the lifferenee
in the value of such machines as they actually were and as they
were warranted to be, less the benefit to the property by what
the defendants have done to make good such warranty."
During the trial the defendants offered to prove the market
value of such machines in good condition for cash, and the difference between that and the value of the machines in the
condition in which they were delivered; but this offer was
rejected.
In its general charge, the court stated the rule of damages
very clearly and correctly, in the following language: " The
extent of the damages in this case will be the difference that
it would cost to put the machines in good condition, so as to
comply with the contract, and also the value of those that were
not then at the time and place stated in the contract." Standing alone, this instruction would have been unexceptionable.
But in the rulings noted above, in giving the tenth and eleventh instructions, asked by the plaintiff, and refusing to give
that asked by the defendants, and in rejecting the evidence
offered on the point, there was substantial error.
The price fixed in the contract, at which the plaintiff agreed
to take the machines, whether the transaction is viewed as an
exchange of property, at assumed valuations, or as a purchase
and sale for money, is not conclusive, between the parties,
upon the questiou of damages, recoverable for a breach. If
there had been a total failure on the part of the defendants
to comply with the contract, and they had refused to deliver
any of the machines specified, the damages to the plaintiff
would have been the amount of money with which, at the time
of the breach, he could have supplied himself by purchase from
others, with the same number of similar articles of' equal value.
If the market price had in the mean time advanced, the recovery would be for more, or, if it had fallen, it would be for less,
than the contract price ; the rule to measure the loss, in such
eases, being the difference between the contract and the market
price. The same rule applies where the breach is partial and
not total; and to make good the warranty as to condition, the
cost of repairs; aid, as to freedom from liens, the cost of removing them, if that be the difference in actual value, between

FLANDERS V. SEELYE.

[Sup. Gt.

the article as warranted and the article as delivered, is all that
can be properly recovered as damages, unless in exceptional
cases of special damage. Whatever that difference, in the actual circumstances of the case, is shown to be, is the true rule
and measure of damages. Where the articles delivered are not
what the contract calls for, as in the case of defective machines,
the measure of the vendee's damages is what it would cost to
supply the deficiency, without regard to the contract price.
Benjamin v. Hillard, 23 How. 149, 167.
For these errors, the judgment of the Circuit Court will be
reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to grant a.
new trial; and it is
So ordered.

FLANDERS

o. SEELYE.

Cotton seized under color of the act of March 1.2, 1863, c. 20, was by A., the deputy general agent of the treasury, consigned, subject to freight and charges,
to B., supervising special agent of the treasury at New Orleans. It was there
received by a firm who paid the charges on A.'s order, to hold "the amount
against the cotton." Shortly thereafter A. directed B. to deliver the cotton
to C., the claimant, upon his giving a bond of indemnity. C. gave the required bond, to save harmless the government, the seizing agent, and the officers and agents of the treasury, on account of the seizure and detention of
the cotton, and, on paying freight and charges, lie, by order of B., received
the cotton. Ile subsequently sued the firm for the amount so paid, and recovered judgment, which a member of the firm paid, and then brought this
action against A. for the money. Held, 1. That A., being neither a party nor
a privy to the suit of C. against the firm, and it not appearing that notice
of its pendency was ever given to him or any agent of the government, lie
is not bound by the judgment there rendered. 2. That the court below having in this action given a certificate of probable cause, as provided by sect.
089, Rev. Stat., it appears that A. could have successfully defended the suit
brought by C., and been protected by the bond given by the latter.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. N. Ogden for the defendant in error.

