Ex

PARTE MASON.

[Sup. Ct.

only to show facts, from which an agreement to do so might
be inferred, but an actual settlement based upon such an understanding. The allegations in the petition, in our opinion, do
not constitute such a bar to the recovery sought, and the denurrer interposed should not, therefore, have been sustained.
For this error, the judgment of the Court of Claims will be
reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings in
accordance with law; and it is
So ordered.

Ex

PARTI

MASON.

1. Where, by a general military court-martial, a person then in the military service of the United States was found guilty of an offence, and sentenced to
be discliarged from that service, and be imprisoned at hard labor in the
penitentiary, - Held, that lie cannot, under a habeas corpus, be discharged
from imprisonmient if the court had jurisdiction to try him for the offence
and was authorized to render the sentence whereof lie complains. Sed qure,
can this court order in his behalf the issue of that writ?
2. A., it soldier of the army, while on duty in 1882 at the jail in Washiigton
City, maliciously attempted to kill a prisoner who was, by the authority
of the United States, there confined. No application was made for the
delivery of A. to the civil authorities, but lie was, oni a charge of having
violated the sixty-second Article of Wilr, tried by a general court-martial,
and sentenced to be imprisoned in the penitentiary for the term of eight
years, and to be dishonorably discharged from the service, with the forfeiture of his pay and allowance due and to become due. Held, 1. That. the
fifty-eighth and fifty-ninth Articles of War have ito application to the ease.
2. That the act being a breach of military discipline as well as a crime
against society, the court-martial had jurisdiction to try A., and to pronounce the sentence, inasmuch as lie was, by the statute in) force itl the
District of Columbia, subject, on con viction, to imprisonen t fbr that period
in the penitentiary, and the court could, in its discretion, inflict the other
penalties.

of haleas corptus and a certiorari.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

PETITION for a writ

Mr. James M. Lyddy for the petitioner.
Mr. Asa Bird Gardner,contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

This is a petition for a writ of habeas corpus to release John

Oct. 1881.]

Ex PARTE MASON.

A. Mason, the petitioner, from confinement in the Albany
penitentiary under a sentence by a general court-martial. The
facts are these: Mason was a sergeant in Battery B of the
Second Regiment of Artillery, in the army of the United
States. He was tried by a general court-martial on the charge
of violating the sixty-second Article of War, in that "having
been ordered with his battery from Washington Barracks for
guard duty at the United States jail, in the city of Washington,
D. C., and having arrived at said jail for said duty," he " did
thereupon, with intent to kill Charles J. Guitean, a prisoner
then confined under the authority of the United States in said
jail, wilfully and maliciously discharge his musket, loaded with
ball-cartridge, at said Guiteau, through a window of said jail,
into a cell then occupied by the said Guiteau." Upon a trial
duly had he was found guilty of the charge accordin)g to the
specification, and sentenced "to be dishonorably discharged
from the service of the United States, with the loss of all pay
and allowances . . .due and to become due to him, and then
to be confined at hard labor in such penitentiary as the proper
authorities may direct for eight years." The Albany penitentiary was designated in due form as the place of confinement
under this sentence.
A question which presents itself at the outset is whether
this court has jurisdiction to issue such a writ as is asked, inasmuch as it has no power to review the judgments of courtsmartial. Upon this question there is not entire unanimity of
opinion among the members of the court, and we purposely
withhold any decision at this time in respect to it. We all
agree, however, that if a writ might issue, there could be no
discharge under it if the court-martial bad jurisdiction to
try the offender for the offence with which he was charged,
and the sentence was one which the court could, under the law,
pronounce.
The sixty-second Article of War, under which Mason was
tried, is as follows : "All crimes not capital, and all disorders and neglects, which
officers and soldiers may be guilty of, to the prejudice of good
order and military discipline, though not mentioned in the folegoing Articles of War, are to be taken cognizance of by a general,

Ex

PARTE MASON.

[Sup. Ct.

or a regimental, garrison, or field officers' court-martial, according
to the nature and degree of the offence, and punished at the discretion of the court."
The offence charged in this case was clearly one to the prejudice of good order and military discipline.
The offender was a soldier in the army of the United States.
As such, according to the specifications of the charge made
against him, he was ordered on guard duty at the United States
jail, in Washington, and while on duty he wilfully and maliciously discharged his musket, with intent to kill a prisoner
confined in the jail under the authority of the United States.
The gravamen of the military offence is that, while standing
guard as a soldier over a jail in which a prisoner was confined,
the accused wilfully and maliciously attempted to kill the
prisoner. Shooting with intent to kill is a civil crime, but
shooting by a soldier of the army standing guard over a prison,
with intent to kill a prisoner confined therein, is not only a
crime against society, but an atrocious breach of military discipline. While the prisoner who was shot at was not himself
connected with the military service, the soldier who fired the
shot was on military duty at the time, and the shooting was in
direct violation of the orders under which he was acting. It
follows that the crime charged, and for which the trial was
had, was not simply an assault with intent to kill, but an
assault by a soldier on duty with intent to kill a prisoner confined in a jail over which he was standing guard.
In our opinion the fifty-eighth and fifty-ninth Articles of
War have no application to the6 case. The fifty-eighth is as
follows: "In time of war, insurrection, or rebellion, larceny, robbery, burglary, arson, mayhem, manslaughter, murder, assault and battery
with an intent to kill, wounding, by shooting or stabbing, with intent to commit murder, rape, or assault and battery with an intent
to commit rape, shall be 1)unishable by the sentence of a general
court-martial, when committed by persons in the military service of
the United States, and the punishment in any such case shall not
be less than the punishment provided for the like offence by the
laws of the State, Territory, or District in which such offence may
have been committed."

Oct. 1881.]

Ex

PARTE

MASON.

The object and purpose of this article were elaborately considered in Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509. As it is to
operate only in thne of war, it neither adds to nor takes from
the powers which courts-martial have under the sixty-second
article in time of peace.
Article 59 is as follows:
"When any officer or soldier is accused of a capital crime, or of
any offence against the person or property of any citizen of the
United States, which is punishable by the laws of the land, the
comnmanding oflicer, and the officers of the regiment, troop, battery,
company, or detachment, to which the person so accused belongs,
are required, except in time of war, upon application duly made by
or on behalf of the party injured, to use their utmost endeavors to
deliver him over to the civil magistrate, and to aid the officers of'
justice in apprehending and securing him, in order to bring him
to trial. If, upon such application, any officer refuses or wilfully
neglects, except in time of war, to deliver over such accused person
to the civil magistrates, or to aid the officers of justice in apprehending him, he shall be dismissed from tie service."
It is not pretended that any application was ever made under
this article for the surrender of Mason to the civil authorities
for trial. So far as appears, the person injured by the offence
committed was satisfied to have the offender dealt with by the
military tribunals. The choice of the tribunal by which he is
to be tried has not been given to the offender. Ile has offended
both against the civil and the military law. As the proper
steps were not taken to have him proceeded against by the civil
authorities, it was the clear duty of the military to bring him
to trial under that jurisdiction. Whether, after trial by the
court-martial, he can be again tried in the civil courts is a question we need not now consider. It is enough if the court-martial had jurisdiction to proceed, and what has been done is
within the powers of that jurisdiction.
It is objected that the sentence is in excess of what the law
allows. The ninety-seventh Article of War is as follows : "No person in the military service shall, under the sentence of a
court-martial, be punished by confinement in a penitentiary, unless
the offence of which he may b convicted would, by some statute
of the United States or by some statute of the State, Territory, or

Ex

PARTE

MASON.

[Sup. Ct.

District in which such offence may be committed, or by the common
law, as the same exists in such State, Territory, or District, subject
such convict to such imprisonment."
Under this article, when the offence is one not recognized by
the laws regulating civil society, there can be no punishment
by confinement in a penitentiary. The same is true when the
offence, though recognized by the civil authorities, is not punishable by the civil courts in that way. But when the act
charged as " conduct to the prejudice of good order and military discipline" is actually a crime against society which is
punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary, it seems to us
clear that a court-martial is authorized to inflict that kind of
punishment. The act done is a civil crime, and the trial is for
that act. The proceedings are had in a court-martial because
the offender is personally amenable to that jurisdiction, and
what he did was not only criminal according to the laws of the
land, but prejudicial to the good order and discipline of the
army to which he belonged. The sixty-second article provides
that the offender, when convicted, shall be punished ait the
discretion of the court, and the ninety-seventh article does no
more than prohibit the court from sentencing him to imprisonment in a penitentiary in a case where, if he were tried for
the same act in the civil courts, such imprisonment could not
be inflicted.
It is also claimed that the sentence is in excess of the jurisdiction of the court, because in addition to imprisonment in
the penitentiary for the full term allowed by the laws of the
District of Columbia for the offence of an assault with intent
to kill, it subjects the offender to a dishonorable discharge from
the army and a forfeiture of his pay and allowances. As has
already been said, under the sixty-second article the punishment is to be at the discretion of the court. The ninetyseventh article only limits this discretion as to imprisonment in
the penitentiary, and it has been nowhere provided that the
punishment may not in other respects be greater than the civil
courts could inflict.
" Cases arising in the land or naval forces " are expressly
excepted from the operation of the Fifth Amendment of the

Oct. 1881.]

WUPRTS v. HOAGLAND.

Constitution, which provides that "no person shall be held to
answer a capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury." The limitation as to
"actual service in time of war or public danger" relates only
to the militia. Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65.
Petition denied.

WURTS v. HOAGLAND.
IRON COMPANY v. HOAGLAND.
1 The time within which a writ of error rrust be served, in order that it may
operate as a sitpersedeas, must be computed front the date of the judgment
which is the subject of review.
2. The writ of error did not in either of these eases operate as a sq)ersedeas, as
the required bond wits filed Oct. 27, 1881, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of New Jersey was affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals
July 18, 1881, and the record remitted Aug. 31, 1881.

RULE to show cause why an attachment should not issue
against the defendant in error, for having sued out executions
upon the judgments below after supersedeas bonds in due form
and approved security had been filed within the prescribed time.
Mr. Theodore Little in support of the rule.
Mr. Jehiel G. Shipman, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The controversy in these cases arose out of an assessment of
benefits for the drainage of lands in New Jersey. It was decided by the Supreme Court of that State, Dec. 1, 1880. -The
Court of Errors and Appeals affirmed the judgment on the
18th of July, 1881, and the record was remitted Aug. 31, 1881.
()n receiving the remittitur on that day, the Supreme Court
entered a rule ordering it to be filed and the cause to be proceeded with according to law. Writs of error from this court
to the Supreme Court of New Jersey were allowed and bonds
approved Oct. 27, 1881, and on the following day were filed in
the clerk's office of the latter court. The writs of error were
properly directed to the Supreme Court, because at that time

