Oct. 18dl1.]

HAMMOCK V. LOAN AND TtusT Co.

HAMMOCK v. LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.
1. A judge of a Circuit Court in Illinois cannot, in vacation, appoint a receiver
of a railroad corporation. The possession of a receiver so appointed is ndt
that of the court.
2. Section 40 of chapter 37, Rev. Stat. Ill., 1874 (p. 332), is to be construed as if

there was no comma between the words

"

to hear and determine motions"

Punctuation is no part of a
and the words "to dissolve injunctions."
statute.
3. The legislation of Illinois, giving the right to redeem mortgaged lands sold
under decree, does not embrace the real estate of a railroad corporation
mortgaged in connection with its franchises and personal property. Its
real estate, personalty, and franchises, so mortgaged, should be sold as an
entirety, and without the right of redemption given by statute.
4. The chattel-mortgage statute is inapplicable to an ordinary railway mortgage.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
To secure the payment of its bonds, aggregating the sum of
$660,000, and issued for the purpose of raising money as
well for its mining and manufacturing business, as for the
completion and maintenance of its road, the Chester and
Tamnaroa Coal and Railroad Company, an Illinois corporation, executed, on the twelfth day of April, 1871, a deed of
trust containing such conditions and provisions as are usually
inserted in railway mortgages. It embraced the entire road
of the grantor, then made or thereafter to be constructed,
from Chester, in Randolph County, to Tauaroa, in Perry
County, together with the right of way, and all the real and
personal property then owned or subsequently acquired, and
used or appropriated for railroad purposes ; also, its privileges
and franchises for holding, operating, and maintaining the
road, together with any income derived from the property, not
applied to the construction and repair of the road, the conduct
of the business of the company, its current expenses, or the
purchase of equipments, tools, and machinery. Subsequently,
the mortgagor company was consolidated with the Chester and
Iron Mountain Railroad Company, the consolidated company
taking the name of the Iron Mountain, Chester, and Eastern
Railroad Company.
From the first day of October, 1874, until the fifth day of

HlAMMOCK v. LOAN AND TaUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

June, 1876, the railroad and other property included in the
mortgage was in the possession of D. C. Barber, as receiver, in
a creditor's suit instituted by one Maxwell in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois. On
the last-named day, in conformity with a stipulation signed by
the attorneys in that suit, Barber was discharged as receiver,
without being required to render an account of his acts, and
the bill of Maxwell was dismissed at his costs. The present
transcript does not show the grounds upon which Barber was
appointed receiver, perhaps for the reason, disclosed in an affidavit, that the bill filed by Maxwell was not to be found among
the files of his suit.
On the day succeeding Barber's discharge as receiver, Hammock, assignee of two judgments (aggregating less than
14,000), with returns of no property, against the Iron Mountain, Chester, and Eastern Railroad Company, and suing in
behalf of himself and such judgment creditors as might unite
with him, presented his bill in equity to the judge of the Circuit Court of Perry County, Illinois, in vacation, "at Chambers," in Washington County, Illinois, praying the appointment
of a receiver of the railroad company and its effects, with
authority to hold and administer the same under the direction
of the court, and out of the net income arising therefrom to

pay the judgments held by complainant and others. The only
grounds assigned in the bill for a receiver are, the indebtedness
of the company, the returns against it of nulla ona, its insol vency, and its refusal to pay the judgments outstanding against
it.
The judge, without notice to the company, appointed
Thomas M. Sams receiver, and made an order requiring the
railroad company, its officers, servants, and agents, to deliver
to him all of its property and effects of every kind, upon his
presenting the certificate of the clerk of the court that he,
Samns, had filed his bond as receiver, in the penal sum of
$15,000, with certain named sureties (Barber, then recently
the receiver im Maxwell's suit, being one of them), conditioned
that he would account for all property and effects coming to
his hands, as receiver, under the order and direction of the court.
By the terms of the order, Sams was authorized *to use and
operate the railroad, and pay all expenses incurred in its opera-

Oct. 1881.]

HAMMOCK v. LOAN AND TRUST CO.

tion as far back as Oct. 1, 1874, nearly two years prior to his
appointment. The bill of Hammock, with the foregoing order
indorsed thereon, was filed in the clerk's office on the 7th of
June, 1876, and Sams, having executed the required bond, took
possession of the railroad and all the property and effects df
the company.
On the thirteenth day of June, 1.876, the Farmers' Loan
and Trust Company-without knowledge, as we infer from
the record, of the suit in the State Court - commenced proceedings in the court below for the foreclosure of the beforementioned mortgage, and to obtain a decree for the sale of all
the property embraced by it, in satisfaction of the interest and
principal of the bonds thereby secured, the whole amount of
which had, under the terms of the mortgage, become due by
reason of the continued default of the company in meeting the
interest ias it matured. The bill (verified under date of Juno
2, 1876) and the supplemental bill charged that the consolidated company was insolvent; that its entire property was
inadequate for the payment of the mortgage debt; that divers
persons, by defaults and collusions with Barber, late receiver,
had obtained judgments against the company, and had levied,
or were about to levy, upon its rolling-stock and other movable
property, with the intent to deprive the trustee and those it
represented of the benefit of their security ; that the company
itself was a party to that fraudulent collusion; that the bill
of Maxwell had been dismlissed, and Barber, as receiver, discharged, to the end that such levies might be made; that these
facts bad only then come to complainant's knowledge; and
that, if time was taken to give notice of an application for an
injunction and a receiver, great and irreparable loss would
ensue to the trustee, and those whose interests it represented.
Upon the filing of the original and supplemental bill the
Federal court appointed a receiver, wit direction to take possession of the mortgaged property, and, at the same time,
issued au injunction against judgmenit creditors interfering with
or taking possession of it. A few days thereafter the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company filed in the office of the clerk of the
Perry Circuit Court its petition to be made a party defendant
in the suit of Hammock, also its answer and cross-bill therein,

H-AMMrOCK V. LOAN AND TRUST Co.

[Sup. Ct.

and its petition, accompanied by proper bond, for the removal
of the suit into the Circuit Court of the United States. An
application was subsequently made by the complainant to the
judge of the State court, in vacation, to discharge Sauis, as
receiver, upon the ground, among others, that he was illegally
appointed in the vacation of court. That motion was denied;
and thereupon the company made an application, based upon
the before-mentioned papers, to the judge, in vacation, to be
admitted as a party to Hammock's suit. But in reference to
that application the judge declined to take action, upon the
ground that he could not legally do so in the vacation of his
court.
On the nineteenth day of July, 1876, the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company, having filed a certified transcript of the proceedings in the Ilamniock suit, including copies of all the foregoing papers, moved the Federal court to take jurisdiction of
that suit. That motion - Mr. Justice Davis and the district
judge concurring -was sustained, and an order made that the
Hammock suit proceed in that court as if originally commenced
there, and be consolidated with the mortgage suit. It was
further ordered that Sams surrender to the receiver of the
Federal court all property in his hands, as receiver, and pay
over all funds by him in that capacity collected. That order
was immediately executed, and thenceforward the mortgaged
property was in the actual and exclusive custody of the Federal
court by its receiver.
At the November Term, 1876, of the State court a motion
was made by Hammock to strike from the files of his suit the
answer, cross-bill, and the petition for the removal of the cause,
previously filed therein by the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, upon the ground that they had been so filed without
leave of court, and because that company was not a party to
the suit. That motion was sustained on the fourth day of
May, 1877, and all of those papers were stricken from the files.
Nothing occurred in the progress of the consolidated cause
which need be referred to, except that the court, in response to
a suggestion by the attorney-general of the State, and by consent of parties (all the judgment creditors interested in Hammock's suit having appeared, in some form, in the consolidated

Oct. 1881.]

HAMMocK V. LOAN AND TnIuST Co.

cause, saving, however, all questions as to the jurisdiction of
the Federal court), an order was made, under which the receiver surrendered to county collectors the rolling-stock and
personal property of the company in his hands to be levied on
and sold. It was levied on and sold for State, county, school,
and other taxes assessed in Randolph and Perry Counties upon
the property in the receiver's hands for the years 1873 to 1876,
inclusive. That portion sold in Randolph County brought
$6,053.92, which, after deducting costs of sale, satisfied in full
the taxes due in that county on the real and personal estate of
the railroad company, and all of the tax on its capital stock,
except $999.93. The sale in Perry County netted the sum of
$5,165, which satisfied in full the taxes due and collectible in
that county on the company's real and personal estate, and all
of the capital-stock tax, except $852.39.
A final decree was made on the eleventh day of January,
1878, for the sale of the mortgaged property, including the franchises of the company, as an entirety, to satisfy the principal
and interest due on the bonds, then amounting to $940,625.40.
The sale was directed to be made "without appraisement and
without reference, and not subject to any law or laws of Illinois allowing redemption from mortpage sales, but absolutely
without redemption." Henry C. Cole became the purchaser
of the entire property at the sun of $50,000. The sale was
subsequently confirmed and a deed made to the purchaser,
who was let into possession on the twenty-sixth day of April,
1878.
On the seventeenth day of October, 1878, the Wabash,
Chester, and Western Railroad Company, an Illinois corporation, to which had been conveyed by Cole, after the confirmation of his purchase, the railroad and other property sold under
the foregoing decree, represented to the court below, by petition,
that Hammock and other judgment creditors, parties to the consolidated cause, had then recently caused Sams, still pretending
to be the legal receiver of the property sold in the foreclosure
suit, to advertise the same for sale, without redemption, under
an order or decree of the Perry Circuit Court, made in Hammock's suit after the execution of the final decree in the foreclosure suit, to wit, on the eleventh day of May, 1878; and
VoL. xv.

6

HAMMOCK

v. LOAN

AND

TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

that, unless restrained, such sale would be had in disregard of
the decree of the Federal Court. Upon this petition a temporary injunction was issued, and Hammock, Sams, and others
were required to show cause why they should not be attached
for contempt of court.
Upon final hearing the temporary injunction of Oct. 17,
1878, was, by an order entered on the seventeenth day of Jannary, 1879, perpetuated, and Sams, Hamnmoek, and their associates were enjoined from taking any steps in execution of the
decree of the Circuit Court of Perry County, from selling
any part of the railroad property theretofore sold under the
decree of the court below, and from interfering with it in any
manner.
The present transcript embraces two appeals, one from the
several orders and the final decree under which the mortgaged
property was sold, and the other from the final order or decree
of Jan. 17, 1879.
The case was argued by Mr. fames If. lidsall for the appellants, and by M'. Robert -. Williams for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating

the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Whether the State court or the Circuit Court of the United
States first acquired control and possession of the property conveyed in trust by the Chester and Tamaroa Coal and Railroad
Company, is the first question to which our attention will be
directed. If, when seized under the order of the Federal court,
it was in the custody of the State court, by its receiver, then,
it is claimed, that all the proceedings in the former, so far at
least as their regularity and validity depended upon possession
of the property, were in violation of the established principles
governing courts of concurrent jurisdiction in their relations to
each other. Peck v. enness, 7 How. 612; Taylor v. Carryl,
20 id. 583; Freeman v. tlowe, 24 id. 450; IIagan v. Lucas, 10
Pet. 400.
' The solution of this question, it must be conceded, depends
upon the authority which the judge of the State could lawfully
exercise in vacation ; for if, under the laws of the State, he
had no power in vacation to appoint a receiver of the property

Oct. 1881.]

HAMMOCK v. LOAN AND TuiusT Co.

and effects of a railroad company, the order under which Sams
took possession was a nullity, and his custody was not that of
the court which lie assumed to represent. Counsel for appellants admits that, except to the extent expressly permitted by
statute, the judge of the State court could not exercise any
judicial functions in vacation. Such, beyond question, is the
established doctrine of the Supreme Court of Illinois. In Blair
v. Reading (99 Ill. 600), the court said: " It is a fundamental
principle that courts can exercise judicial functions only at
such times and places as are fixed by law, and that the judges
of courts can enter no orders in vacation, except, such as are
expressly authorized by statute." In Devine v. People (100
id. 290), the language of the court was that "judges can exercise no judicial functions in vacation, except such as they are
especially authorized to do by statute." Keith v. Kellogg, 97
id. 147.
It is stated by counsel, and our examination verifies the
correctness of the statement, that in the few cases in which the
statutes of Illinois make special provision for the appointment
of a receiver, the power is conferred upon the court, and not
upon the judge thereof. Rev. Stat. Ill., 1874, sect. 25, p. 290;
id., sect. 24, p. 553; id., sect. 88, p. 613.
But the action of the judge of the State court is attempted
to be sustained under the forty-ninth section of chapter 37 of
the Revised Statutes of Illinois, enacted in 1874 (p. 332),
which is in these words: " S-ECT. 49. Powers ofjudges in vacation: The several judges of
said courts [judges of the Circuit Courts, and of the Superior Court
of Cook County] shall have power, in vacation, to hear and determine motions, to dissolve injunctions, stay or quash executions, to
make all necessary orders to carry into effect any decree previously
rendered, including the issuance of necessary writs therefor, to
order the issuance of writs of certiorari,to permit amendments in
any process, pleading, or proceeding in law or equity. Any order
so made shall be signed by the .judge making it, and filed and entered of record by the clerk of the court in which the proceeding is
had, and from the date of such filing shall have like force and effect
as if made at a regular term of such court.

The pendency of a term

of court in another county than that in which the suit is pending,

]HAMMOCK v. LOAN AND TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

or about to be commenced by the same judge, shall not prevent the
granting of such order. L. 1871-72, p. 504, sects. 1, 2."
The succeeding section (sect. 50) provides that "11no such
order shall be granted in vacation unless the party applying
therefor shall give the opposite party, or his attorney of record, reasonable notice of his intended application."
We are of opinion that the authority of a judge, in vacation,
to appoint a receiver of a railroad corporation cannot be derived from the foregoing section. This precise question has
not, that we are aware, been determined in the Supreme Court
of Illinois. But what fell from that learned tribunal in the
cases already cited leads us to believe that when the question
is directly presented it will be determined in accordance with
the view we have just expressed.
In the argument before us attention was called to the fact
that between the words in sect. 49, "to hear and determine
motions," and the words "to dissolve injunctions," there appears a comma ; and that was, to some extent, relied on as
showing that a judge in vacation could hear and determine
motions of every kind, not simply those relating to matters
specially defined in that section. While the comma after the
word "motions," if any force be attached to it, would give the
section a broader scope than it would otherwise have, that circumstance should not have a controlling influence. Punctua-

tion is no part of the statute.

Lord Kenyon, C. J., in Doe v.

Martin (4 T. R. 65), said that courts in construing acts of Parliament or deeds should read them with such stops as will give
effect to the whole. Sedgwick's Constr. Stat. and Const. Law
(2d ed.), 223, note a; Bouvier's Law Die. 347, 402. The general rule is well illustrated in Barrington's Statutes (4th ed.),
438, note x; Price v. Price, 10 Ohio St. 316; Cushing, &e.
v. Worriek, 9 Gray (Mass.), 382; Geiqer's Estate, 65 Pa. St.
311; and Hamilton v. Steamer R. B. -Hamilton, 16 Ohio St.
428. In the last case it was said: " But for the punctuation,
as it stands, there could be little doubt but that this was the
meaning of the legislature. Courts will, however, in the construction of statutes, for the purpose of arriving at the real
meaning and intention of the law-makers, disregard the pune-

Oct. 1881.]

HAMMrOCK

V. LOAN AND TRUST CO.

tuation, or repunctuate, if need be, to render the true meaning
of the statute." Apart from the general rule upon this subject,
there are reasons why the punctuation of sect. 49 should not
control its interpretation. It will be observed that at the close
of that section is a reference to the laws of Illinois passed at
the session 1871-72 of the General Assembly, indicating that
sect. 49 was, in part at least, founded upon an existing or previous statute. One of the rules prescribed by the revision of
1874 for the construction of statutes is that " the provisions of
any statute, so far as they are the same as those of any previous
statute, shall be construed as a continuation of such prior provisions, and not as a new enactment." Rev. Stat. Ill., 1874,
p. 1012, sect. 2. Turning then to the previous law,-the act of
March 7, 1872, - we find no comma after the word " motions,"
but the statute reads, " to hear and determine motions to dissolve injunctions," &e. Sess. Laws, Ill., 1871-72, p. 504. We
are not prepared to hold that the power of a judge in vacation
to appoint a receiver of a corporation, charged with important
public duties, was conferred by the introduction of a comma
into the Revised Statutes of a State, where the established
doctrine is that no judicial functions can be exercised by a
judge, in vacation, except where expressly or specially authorized by statute.
But if, as the argument of counsel would imply, a judge, in
vacation, may, by virtue of the powers conferred by sect. 49,
hear and determine every matter presented by way of motion,
and not simply motions relating to the dissolution of injunctions, to staying or quashing executions, to orders carrying
into effect decrees previously rendered, to writs of certiorari,or
amendments in process, pleading, or proceedings in law and in
equity,-which are the subjects specifically referred to in that
section, - we are satisfied that an application to dispossess
those in control of a railroad corporation, whose road is declared by the Constitution of the State to be a public highway,
and to place its entire property in the hands of a receiver, is
not, within the meaning of the statute, a motion which may be
heard and determined by the judge out of term time. It is
rather a proceeding involving the exercise of the highest diseretion, and embracing a very wide field of judicial investigatiou

HAIIOCK v. LOAN AND TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and inquiry. The injustice which may result from the exercise
of such a power in vacation is well illustrated in this case by the
fact that, while the judge of the State court did not doubt his
power, out of term time, to oust those in the control of a public
corporation, and appoint a receiver, with authority to carry on
the business of a carrier of freight and passengers, he could
not, under his view of the statute, determine, in vacation, an
ordinary motion to become a party to the suit, made by the
trustee in a first mortgage or deed of trust covering the entire
property and franchises in question.
It results from what has been said that the seizure of the
property by the receiver of the Federal court was not an interference with the possession of the State court, nor in derogation of its authority. The property was not, inany legal sense,
then in the custody of the State court, or of any officer by it
appointed. It was, when seized by order of the Federal court,
in the custody of one who assumed, without lawful authority,
to represent the State court, but who in fact proceeded under
a void order of a judge in vacation.
The Circuit Court of the United States, having thus lawfully
acquired possession of the property, prior to any action in
reference to it by the State court, the former had the right to
retain possession for all the purposes of the suit for foreclosure
of the mortgage of the 12th of April, 1871. Under the final
decree of foreclosure it was, as we have seen, sold in satisfaction of the mortgage debt, leaving nothing to be applied on the
claims of Hammock and other judgment creditors.
We proceed now to inquire whether, in the orders or decrees
under which the property has been disposed of, any error has
been committed to the prejudice of the substantial rights of
appellants. On their behalf it is suggested that the decree
was erroneous, in that it required the sale of the real estate,
covered by the mortgage, to be made absolutely and without
the right of redemption allowed by the local statutes in decretal
sales of mortgaged lands. The question is one of great importance, and has received, upon our part, all the consideration
which it demands.
By the statutes of Illinois, in force when the mortgage was
maae, real estate, taken in execution, if susceptible of division,

Oct. 1881.]

HAMocK v. LOAN AND TRUST CO.

is required to be sold in such quantities as may be necessary to
satisfy the execution and costs. Rev. Stat. Ill., 1869 (Gross
ed.), p. 397, sect. 11. And it is made the duty of the sheriff
or other officer, selling lands or tenements, by virtue of an execution, to give to the purchaser, or purchasers, a certificate, in
writing, describing the lands or tenements purchased, and the
sum paid therefor, or, if purchased by the plaintiff in the execution, the amount of his bid, and the time whcn, if the propcrty be not redeemed, the purchaser will be entitled to a deed.
Id., p. 380, sect. 15.
It is further provided that the defendant, his heirs, executors, administrators, or grantees, might, within twelve months
from the sale of his lands or tencments, under execution, redeem the same by paying to the officer who sold it, for the
benefit of the purchaser, the saui of money which may have
been paid on the purchase, or the amount given or bid, if purchased by the plaintiff in the execution, together with interest
thereon at the rate of ten per centumn from the time of sale.
Id., sect. 16. The right was given to any judgment creditor,
after the expiration of twelve, and within fifteen, months froni
the sale, to redeem the property, by paying the amount paid by
the purchaser,- such payment entitling him to have a resale
under the execution upon his own judgment. Id., sects. 17, 18.
This right, given to judgment creditors, could be exercised as
to the whole, or any part, of the lands or tenements sold, provided the redemption is made in the like distinct quantities, or
parcels, in which the same are sold. Id., sect. 19.
If the lands or tenements so sold are not redeemed by the
defendant, or by a judgment creditor, within fifteen months
from the sale, it is the duty of the officer making it to execute
a deed to the purchaser. Id., sect. 25.
The provision in reference to redemption from mortgage
sales is that, " where lands shall be sold under and by virtue
of any decree of a court of equity for the sale of mortgaged
lands, it shall be lawful for the mortgagor of such lands, his
heirs, executors, administrators, or grantees, to redeem the same
in the manner prescribed for the redemption of lands sold by
virtue of executions issued upon judgments at corn mon law ; and
judgment creditors may redeem lands soid" under any such

HAMMOCK V. LOAN AND TUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

decree, in the same manner as igprescribed for the redemption
of lands in like manner sold upon executions upon judgments
issued at common law." Id., p. 382, sect. 27.
The history of the right of redemption, as given by the laws
of Illinois, may be traced in Statutes of 1825, p. 151; Rev.
Stat., 1829, p. 85; id., 1833, p. 374; id., 1845, p. 302. When
originally conferred as to sales of land under execution, there
were no railroads in that State, and very few, if any, when
it was first (in 1845) extended to decretal sales of mortgaged
lands.
In Brine v. Insurance Company (96 U. S.627), we held that
the right of redemption given by the Illinois statutes constituted a rule of property which the Federal court, sitting in
equity in that State, is bound to recognize and enforce. The
property there in controversy was a lot of ground in the city
of Chicago, which had been owned by a private person, who
conveyed it in trust to secure a loan of money by an insurance
company.
When the mortgage by the Chester and Tamaroa Coal and
Railroad Company was made, there was in force a general
statute, passed in 1855, conferring upon any railroad company
organized or incorporated under the laws of Illinois the power
to mortgage all or any portion of its property and franchises to
secure the payment of money borrowed to aid in the construetion, completion, or operation of its road. Gross ed., p. 553;
Laws of Ill., 1855, p. 304.
And by the State Constitution adopted in 1870, railroads
thereafter constructed were declared to be public highways,
free to all for the transportation of their persons and property
thereon, under such regulations as should be prescribed by law.
Art. 11, sect. 12.
The question is, therefore, presented for the first time in
this court, whether the statutoxy provisions giving the right to
redeem as well lands or tenements sold under execution as
mortgaged lands sold under decrees of courts of equity, has
any application to the real estate of a railroad corporation,
which, with its franchises and personal property, is mortgaged,
as an entirety, to secure the payment of money borrowed for
railroad purposes.'

Oct. 1881.]

JlIAIocK v. LOAN AND TRUST CO.

Undoubtedly in all such cases the chief value of the real
estate comes from the right or franchise to hold and use it, in
connection with the personal property of the corporation, for
railroad purposes. It is equally true, not only that the bonds,
to secure which the mortgage is given, could not be negotiated
in the markets of the country did not the mortgage embrace as
an entirety the franchises and all the real and personal property of the corporation used for railroad purposes, but that a
sale of the real estate, franchises, and personal property, separately, might, in every case, prove disastrous to all concerned,
and defeat the ends for which the corporation was created,
with authority to establish and maintain a public highway.
It is, nevertheless, contended by counsel that, as the statute
attaches to decretal sales of mortgaged lands the right of redemption, that right exists as well in cases of mortgages, covering the entire property and franchises of a railroad corporation,
as where the land is owned and used by private persons for exclusively private purposes.
to that result the argument would
In other words, -for
lead, - the court, in decreeing the sale of the mortgaged property and franchises of a railroad corporation, has no discretion,
if the corporation or its judgment creditors so demand, except
to order the sale of the real estate separately, in parcels when
susceptible of division, and subject to redemption, leaving the
franchises and personal property to be sold absolutely and without redemption. Thus, one person might become the purchaser
of the real estate, another of the franchise, and still others of
the personal property. If the railroad company should redeem
the real estate, it could not employ it to any valuable end; for,
its franchise to be a corporation and to use its real estate for railroad purposes, will have been sold to another, and there is no
right under the statute to redeem the franchise, it not being
real estate, but rather a power or privilege, partaking more or
less of sovereignty, and which may not be exercised without a
special grant. 1 Redfield on Law of Railways, 94. Consequences equally injurious would flow even from the sale, as an
entirety, of the real and personal property and franchises of the
corporation, if the right was reserved to the company, or its
creditors, to redeem the realty. Individuals or associations

HAMMOCK V. LOAN AND TRUST Co.

[Sup. Ct.

desiring railroad property would not purchase when they could
not know, until the expiration of fifteen months from the confirmation of the sale, whether they were to have all for which
they might bid. During that period of uncertainty the property would necessarily depreciate in value for the want of
repairs and betterments essential to its preservation. A construction of the statute which leads to such results ought not
to be adopted, if it can be avoided. And we think it can be
without contravening the spirit of the statute or the public
policy which suggested its enactment.
We are of opinion that mortgaged real estate, to which is
attached the right of redemption, is such and such only as
could at law be levied upon and sold on execution. The right
does not extend to real estate of a public corporation, mortgaged with its franchise to acquire, hold, and use property for
public purposes, and whose chief value depends upon its being
so used and appropriated. The difference between real estate,
so acquired, held, and used, and real estate which may, at law,
be sold under execution, is well illustrated in Gue v. Tide
Water Canal Co., 24 How. 257. In that case it appeared that
an execution was levied upon a house and lot, sundry canal
locks, a wharf-boat, and several lots, the property of the canal
company, chartered under the laws of Maryland for the construction of a canal from Havre de Grace, in that State, to the
Pennsylvania line. The property so levied upon was admitted
to be necessary to the uses and working of the canal, which
was a public improvement, and a great thoroughfare of trade.
It was of little value apart from the franchise to take tolls, and
if sold separately under execution, the franchise to take tolls,
said Mr. Chief Justice Taney, speaking for the court, would
not have passed to the purchaser. It was consequently ruled
that the real estate there in controversy could not be seized
and sold under fierifacias, and, consistently with the rights of
stockholders and creditors, could not be sold separately from
the franchise from which was derived its chief value.
The laws of the State of Illinois having permitted the Chester and Tamaroa Coal and Railroad Company to mortgage its
franchises and property as an entirety, it was, we think, tihe
duty of the court to decree the sale, as an entirety, of the

Oct. 1881.]

HAIMOCK v. LOAN AND TRUST Co.

whole property, so mortgaged, without reference to the local
Real estate, thus
statutes upon the subject of redemption.
mortgaged with the franchises of the company, is of necessity
relieved from the operation of that statute. There may possibly be cases in which real estate, of an ordinary kind, owned
and mortgaged by a railroad corporation, cannot be sold by
decree of court, except subject to the right of redemption; as
when it is not used for necessary railroad purposes, or when it
is mortgaged separately from its franchises and other property.
What may be the operation of the statute in such cases we
do not now decide. All that we do decide is, that, by the
laws of Illinois, the real estate, franchises, and other property
of a railroad corporation, mortgaged as an entirety, may be
sold, as an entirety, under the decree of a court of equity, without any right of redemption in the mortgagor or in judgment
creditors as to such real estate.
The construction we have given to the statute is not inconsistent with the provision of the State Constitution which
declares that " the rolling-stock and all other movable property, belonging to any railroad company or corporation in
Illinois, shall be considered personal property, and shall be
liable to execution and sile in the same manner as personal
property of individuals ; and the General Assembly shall pass
no law exempting any such property from execution and sale."
Art. 11, sect. 10.
When the mortgage of April 12, 1871, was executed, there
was no levy upon the movable property of the company, and
consequently the rights of the mortgagee were superior to
the lien arising from a subsequent levy, by execution, upon the
movable property. The State Constitution did not forbid the
creation, by mortgage, of such superior lien.
So far from that section militating against the construction
we have given the statute, it rather fortifies it. It furnishes a
strong implication that the right to levy an execution upon the
movable property of a railroad corporation was intended to be
restricted to that kind of corporate property. It is a partial
modification of the general rule that the property of a railroad
corporation, used for necessary railroad purposes, cannot be
seized and sold under an execution at law.

HAMIOCK v. LOAN AND

TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

The next question to be considered relates to the distribution of the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property.
The argument, upon this branch of the case, in behalf of
the appellants, briefly stated, is this: That by the laws of
the State in force when the mortgage of April 12, 1871, was
executed, a mortgage of personal property, certified by a justice of the peace in the justice's district in which the mortgagor resides, and recorded in the recorder's office of the
couity where the mortgagor resides, shall, " if bona fide, be
good and valid from the time it is so recorded, for a space of
not exceeding two years, notwithstanding the property mortgaged or conveyed by deed of trust may be left in possession
of the mortgagor, provided that such conveyance shall provide for the possession of the property so to remain with the
mortgagor," Gross ed., 1869, p. 67; that more than two years
having expired, after the execution of the mortgage of April
property
12, 1871, and before the suit for foreclosure, -the
mortgaged remaining in the possession of the railroad company until seized in Hammock's suit, - the judgment creditors,
by virtue of their suit in the State court, acquired a lien, at
least upon the rolling-stock and other movable property covered by the mortgage, superior to an:r claim on the part of the
mortgagee and those it represented; and that since the personal property was surrendered and the proceeds of its sale applied in discharge of taxes upon the real and personal property
and capital stock of the corporation, the court upon principles
of equity should have appropriated to* the judgment creditors
so much of the proceeds of the decretal sale as was equal to the
taxes on real estate paid from the proceeds of the sale of personal property by the collectors.
We are of opinion that the statutory provisions in regard to
chattel mortgages (Gross ed., p. 66) do not embrace mortgages
by a railroad corporation, in connection with its real estate and
franchises, of its personal property used and appropriated for
railroad purposes. The statute provides a mode by which
possession of the mortgagor of personal property should not
defeat the mortgage, viz. the acknowledgment and record of
the mortgage. The acknowledgment is required to be made
before a justice of the justice's district in which the mortgagor

Oct. 1881.]

HAMrMOCK V. LOAN AND TRUST CO.

resides, and recorded in the recorder's office of the county
where he resides. These directions are wholly inapplicable to
a railroad company, whose line of road might pass through
several justices' districts and extend through several counties.
And, if the construction contended for be sound, a railway
mortgage security, so far as the personalty of the corporation
is concerned, would cease to be of any value after the expiration of two years from its execution, unless the mortgagor,
before the expiration of that time, takes possession of it, - the
authority to do which, in advance of the maturity of the mortgage debt, and when there has been no default of the corporation in meeting its interest, would render the negotiation of the
mortgage bonds difficult if not impossible. Clearly the chattelmortgage statute has nothing to do with the present case.
What we have said renders it unnecessary to consider the
other branches of the proposition last stated, and disposes of
all questions of importance upon the merits, arising on the
appeal from the final decree ordering a sale of the mortgaged
property, and directing a disposition of the proceeds arising
therefrom.

We have seen that the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company,
in vacation, filed in the clerk's office of the State court a petition to be made a party to the creditor's suit of Hammock,

with an answer and cross-bill, and also a petition for the removal of that suit into the Federal court, accompanied by the
required bond ; and that the judge of the State court, in vacation, declined to act upon the petition to be made a party,
or to recognize the right of removal. Whether the cause was,
under these circumstances, properly docketed in the court
below as one legally removed under the act of Congress, or
whether the Federal court exceeded its authority in the final
order of injunction, made on the seventeenth day of January,
1879, upon the petition of the Wabash, Chester, and Western
Railroad Company, are questions about which there is a difference of views among those members of the court who heard
the cause and participated in its decision. We, therefore, forbear to make any expression of opinion upon them. And it is
not at all important to the parties that we should do so. The
object of the suit in the State court was to reach the property

LEIINBEUTER

V. IIOLTHAUS.

[Sup. Ct.

of the railroad company, and from it, or from the income to be
derived therefrom, obtain satisfaction of the judgments against
the corporation. Whether that suit was or not, under the act
of Congress, legally removed into the Federal court, the entire
property, we have seen, passed lawfully into the custody of
the latter court, and by proceedings therein, to which the
judgment creditors were parties, and by which they are concluded- it has been all sold, and the proceeds adjudged to be
rightfully distributed in satisfaction of the mortgage debt. It
would, consequently, serve no valuable purpose for the appellants, were it now decided that the suit commenced in the State
court was not legally removed into the Federal court, or that
the order of Jan. 17, 1879, was beyond the power of that court
to make.
The decrees appealed from are, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

LEFINBEUTER V. HOLTHAUS.
1. Letters-patent granted by the United States are, as against an infringer, prima
facie evidence of the novelty and utility of the device or invention for which

they were granted.
2. Letters-patent No. 8814, granted Nov. 30, 1875, to Joseph Leinbeuter and
Casper Claes for a design for show-cases are valid.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The bill, filed by Joseph Lehnbeuter and Casper Claes,
charged Arnold Holthaus and Anton Holthaus with infringing design patent No. 8814 for show-cases, granted to the
complainants jointly, and dated Nov. 30, 1875.
The answer denied that the complainants were the first
inventors of the design patented; denied its utility, and the
alleged infringement. To sustain these denials all the testimony offered by the defendants was directed.

