Oct. 1881.]

t ]THE
"S. C. TRYON."

court below vacating its allowance of the appeal, must be denied, and that the supersedeas which followed in law from the
acceptance of the bond by the Chief Justice is in force. Such
was our ruling in Draperv. Davis (supra), on a similar motion
at the last term.
The questions presented by the other branch of the motion
to dismiss are important, and have not been directly settled, as
we think, by any decision yet made by this court. Their further consideration is postponed until the case is heard on its
merits.

THE "S.

C. TRYON."

1. The findings of fact which, in admiralty cases in the Circuit Court, the act of
Feb. 16,1875, c. 77 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 315), requires are in the nature of a special
verdict, and constitute a part of the record. The law arising thereon will
therefore be determined here, although no exception thereto was taken.
2. A bill of exceptions is required to reserve for review the' rulings below upon
questions of law during the progress of the trial.
3. The court in this case, while refusing to dismiss the appeal, grants a motion
to affirm the decree, it appearing from the record that the appeal was
taken for delay.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Maryland, with which is
united a motion to affirm.
The Merchants' Steamship Company, of Charleston, South
Carolina, as owner of the steamship " Falcon," filed its libel
in the District Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland, in a cause of collision, civil and maritime, against
the schooner " S. C. Tryon," and obtained a decree. The
claimants thereupon appealed to the Circuit Court, which
found the following facts: About 4.30 P. M. on Saturday, the 8th of November, 1870,
the steamer " Falcon," then owned by the libellant, being
properly officered and manned, and in every way fitted for her
voyage, left the port of Baltimore on a voyage to Charleston,
South Carolina, with a valuable cargo of merchandise on
board.

THE "S.

C. TRYON."

[Sup. Ct.

About 9.45 P. TvI.on said 8th of November, the said steamer
was proceeding on her proper course, S. by E. I E., down the
Chesapeake Bay, about eight miles above Cove Point, at the
rate of nine miles an hour. All of her lights required by law
were properly hung, burning brightly, and visible the prescribed distances. Her second mate, a competent licensed
pilot, was in charge of her, standing in the pilot-house, with
the man at the wheel.
An able seaman and competent helmsman was at her wheel;
a sufficient and competent crew were on duty; two other able
seamen were vigilantly occupied as lookouts, stationed far forward in the bow, in the position most advantageous therefor.
About the time last mentioned both of the lookouts saw,
and one of them immediately reported, a red light about one
point over the port bow of the steamer.
The second mate of said steamer looked with his glasses,
saw the said red light in the direction in which it had been
reported, and satisfied himself that it was on board a sailingvessel, a mile and a half or two miles off, coining up the bay
with a fair wind.
The man at the wheel then also saw it. It turned out afterwards to be the red light on board of the schooner "S. C.
Tryon," coining up the bay, as the second mate supposed.
The night was starlight; there was a seven-knot breeze from
the southward; fair for said schooner; and there was no necessity for her, then or thereafter, to change her course. If
there had been no change in the course of either vessel, they
would have passed each other in safety, each on the port side
of the other.
As a matter of precaution, however, the helm of said steamer
was immediately ported, until she fell off to S., a change of
11 points in her course, and causing said schooner to bear
about 21 points over the port bow of said steamer. The second mate and lookouts of said steamer continued to watch the
light of said schooner, seeing all the time only her red light,
and said steamer was kept on her new course, about 1- points
farther to the westward than her original course, until said
vessels were about a mile apart; only the red light of said
schooner was then visible; although no further change of course

Oct. 1881.]

THE "S.

C.

TnYON."

on the part of said steamer seemed then to be necessary, as a
matter of further precaution her heln was again ported a little.
When the said vessels were three or four hundred yards
from each other, about to pass each other in safety, sufficiently
far apart not to justify even the apprehensions of danger, the
said schooner, being still to the port of said steamer, and showing only her red light, suddenly, and without any justification
therefor, put her helm hard a-starboard, and exhibited to said
steamer both of her side lights.
As soon as her green light was visible to those on board of
said steamer, it was seen by both lookouts of said steamer, and
by one or them immediately reported to the second mate of
said steamer.
The helm of said steamer was thereupon immediately put
hard a-port, and in a few seconds thereafter her engines were
stopped; but said vessels were then so near together that there
was not sufficient time to reverse said engines, and the how of
said schooner struck said steamer about midships on her port
side, cutting her down to the water's edge, and damaging her
so seriously that in about ten minutes she sunk, with all her
cargo on board, in water six fathoms deep.
The collision was entirely the result of want of proper care,
skill, and seamanship on the part of those in charge of said
schooner, and the improper change in her course made in consequence thereof.
Those in charge of said steamer did all in their power to
keep out of the way of said schooner to prevent said collision,
and to lessen the consequences thereof.
The libellant and the petitioners, and those in whose behalf
petitions have been filed, sustained damages by said collision
largely exceeding the amount of the stipulation filed for said
schooner.
The court found the following conclusions of law It was the duty of the steamer vigilantly to watch the
movements of the schooner from the time she or either of her
lights was visible to those on board of said steamer, and to take
proper measures to keep out of the way of said schooner.
It was the duty of the schooner not to change her course so
as to baffle the efforts of the steamer to keep out of her way.

THE* "S. C. TRYON."

[Sup. Ct.

It was the duty of the steamer, even after the schooner had
improperly changed her course, to do all she could to prevent
a collision, and to lessen the consequences of one, if unavoidable.
The court rendered a decree in favor of the libellant, and
the claimants appealed to this court.
Mr. John ff. Thomas and Mr. George Leiper Thomas for
the appellee, in support of the motions.
There was no opposing counsel.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
A bill of exceptions is not necessary to give this court. jurisdiction of an appeal in admiralty under the provisions of the
act of Feb. 16, 1875, c. 77 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 315). That act expressly provides that the review here shall extend to the determination of the questions of law arising upon the record, and
to such rulings of the court, excepted to at the time, as may
be presented by a bill of exceptions, prepared as in actions at
law. At law a bill of exceptions is only used to put into the
record that which would not appear without. The findings
which the statute requires must be stated by the court. These,
therefore, become part of the record without any action of the
parties, and errors of law arising on them need not be presented by exceptions. They are in the nature of a special
verdict, as to which the inquiry is always open in the reviewing
court, whether, when taken in connection with everything else
that appears, it is sufficient to support the judgment.
The motion to dismiss must, therefore, be overruled, but on
looking into the record we are satisfied the appeal was taken
for delay. The only question presented arises on the findings
of fact. From these it appears that the collision was due
solely to an unjustifiable change of course by the schooner
when the vessels were in close proximity, which baffled the
steamer in her efforts to pass in safety. It is so well settled
that a steamer is not liable for the consequences of a collision
occurring in this way, that we do not deem it proper to retain
the cause for further consideration.
Motion to affirm granted.

