BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF SCARSDALE v. McCREARY

83

Per Curiam

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF SCARSDALE ET AL. v. McCREARY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT
No. 84-277.

Argued February 20, 1985-Decided March 27, 1985

739 F. 2d 716, affirmed by an equally divided Court.

Marvin E. Frankel argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs was Marc D. Stern.
Marvin Schwartz argued the cause for respondents and
filed a brief for respondents Scarsdale Creche Committee
et al. Vincent K. Gilmore filed a brief for respondents
McCreary et al.*
PER CURIAM.

The judgment is affirmed by an equally divided Court.
JUSTICE POWELL

took no part in the decision of this case.

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the American
Civil Liberties Union et al. by Burt Neuborne, Charles S. Sims, Norman
Dorsen, and Steven R. Shapiro; for the American Jewish Committee et al.
by Samuel Rabinove; and for the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith
et al. by Ruti G. Teitel, Meyer Eisenberg, Justin J. Finger, and Jeffrey
P. Sinensky.
Solicitor General Lee, Acting Assistant Attorney General Willard, and
Deputy Solicitor General Bator filed a brief for the United States as
amicus curiae urging affirmance.
Steven Frederick McDowell filed a brief for the Catholic League for
Religious and Civil Rights as amicus curiae.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Syllabus

471 U. S.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. LOCKE ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEVADA
No. 83-1394.

Argued November 6, 1984-Decided April 1, 1985

Section 314 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976
(FLPMA) establishes a federal recording system that is designed to rid
federal lands of stale mining claims and to provide federal land managers with up-to-date information that allows them to make informed
land management decisions. Section 314(b) requires that mining claims
located prior to FLPMA's enactment be initially recorded with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) within three years of the enactment,
and § 314(a) requires that the claimant, in the year of initial recording
and "prior to December 31" of every year after that, file with state
officials and the BLM a notice of intention to hold a claim, an affidavit of
assessment work performed on the claim, or a detailed reporting form.
Section 314(c) provides that failure to comply with either of these requirements "shall be deemed conclusively to constitute an abandonment"
of the claim. Appellees, who had purchased mining claims before 1976,
complied with the initial recording requirement but failed to meet
on time their first annual filing requirement, not filing with the BLM
until December 31. Subsequently, the BLM notified appellees that
their claims had been declared abandoned and void due to their tardy
filing. After an unsuccessful administrative appeal, appellees filed an
action in Federal District Court, alleging that § 314(c) effected an unconstitutional taking of their property without just compensation and denied
them due process. The District Court issued summary judgment in
appellees' favor, holding that § 314(c) created an impermissible irrebuttable presumption that claimants who fail to make a timely filing intended
to abandon their claims. Alternatively, the court held that the 1-day
late filing "substantially complied" with § 314(a) and the implementing
regulations.
Held:
1. Section 314(a)'s plain language-"prior to December 31'-read in
conjunction with BLM regulations makes clear that the annual filings
must be made on or before December 30. Thus, the BLM did not act
ultra vires in concluding that appellees' filing was untimely. Pp. 93-96.
2. Congress intended in § 314(c) to extinguish those claims for which
timely filings were not made. Specific evidence of intent to abandon is
made irrelevant by § 314(c); the failure to file on time, in and of itself,
causes a claim to be lost. Pp. 97-100.

