OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Per Curiam.

BUSBY

ET AL.

v. HARRIS, JUDGE,

370 U. S.

ET AL.

ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 728, Misc. Decided May 28, 1962.
Certiorari granted; judgment of Court of Appeals vacated and case
remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the proceedings
as moot.

Petitioners pro se.
Solicitor General Cox, Assistant Attorney GeneralMarshall, Harold H. Greene and Howard A. Glickstein for
respondents.
PER CURIAM.

Upon the Solicitor General's suggestion of mootness
and upon an examination of the entire record, the motion
for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and the petition
for writ of certiorari are granted. The judgment of the
Court of Appeals is vacated and the case is remanded to
that court with directions to dismiss the proceedings upon
the ground that the case is moot.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

GALLEGOS v. COLORADO.
Opinion of the Court.

GALLEGOS v. COLORADO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF COLORADO.

No. 475. Argued April 9, 1962.-Decided June 4, 1962.
Petitioner, a 14-year-old boy, and another juvenile followed an elderly
man to a hotel, got into his room on a ruse, assaulted and overpowered him, stole $13 from his pockets and fled. Picked up 12
days later by police, petitioner immediately admitted the assault
and robbery. Over two weeks later, he was convicted in a juvenile
court of "assault to'injure" and was committed'to the State Industrial Schoo for an indeterminate period. Subsequently the victim
died, and petitioner was charged with first degree murder. At his
trial in a state court, a jury found him guilty. The crucial evidence introduced at the trial was a formal confession which petitioner had signed before his victim died, before petitioner had been
brought before a judge, and after he had been held for five days
without seeing a lawyer, parent, or other friendly adult, although
his mother had attempted to see him. Held: On the totality of
the circumstances in this case, the formal confession on which petitioner's conviction may have rested was obtained in violation of
due process, and the judgment sustaining his conviction is reversed.
Pp. 49-55.
145 Colo. 53, 358 P. 2d 1028, reversed.

Charles S. Vigil argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioner.
J. F. Brauer, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of Colorado, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the
brief were Duke W. Dunbar,Attorney General, and Frank
E. Hickey, Deputy Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner, a child of 14, and another juvenile followed
an elderly man to a hotel, got into his room on a ruse,

assaulted him, overpowered him, stole $13 from his
pockets, and fled.

All this happened on December 20,

