OCTOBER TERM, 1985

Per Curiam

474 U. S.

LAKE COAL CO., INC. v. ROBERTS & SCHAEFER CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT
No. 84-1240. Argued October 15, 1985-Decided December 3, 1985
Held: The parties' motion requesting decision of the questions presented
in the petition for certiorari despite settlement of the underlying causes
of action is denied; the Court of Appeals' judgment is vacated; and the
case is remanded for dismissal of the cause as moot.
751 F. 2d 386, vacated and remanded.

Ronald G. Polly argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs was Gene Smallwood, Jr.
C. Kilmer Combs argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
PER CURIAM.

The motion of the parties requesting the Court to decide
the questions presented in the petition for writ of certiorari
despite complete settlement of the underlying causes of
action is denied. See DeFunis v. Odegaard, 416 U. S. 312
(1974).
The judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit is vacated, and the case is remanded to
the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Kentucky with instructions to dismiss the cause as moot.

UNITED STATES v. RIVERSIDE BAYVIEW HOMES, INC.

121

Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. RIVERSIDE BAYVIEW
HOMES, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT
No. 84-701.

Argued October 16, 1985-Decided December 4, 1985

The Clean Water Act prohibits any discharge of dredged or fill materials
into "navigable waters"-defined as the "waters of the United States"unless authorized by a permit issued by the Army Corps of Engineers
(Corps). Construing the Act to cover all "freshwater wetlands" that are
adjacent to other covered waters, the Corps issued a regulation defining
such wetlands as "those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface
or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and
that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions." After respondent
Riverside Bayview Homes, Inc. (hereafter respondent), began placing
fill materials on its property near the shores of Lake St. Clair, Michigan,
the Corps filed suit in Federal District Court to enjoin respondent from
filling its property without the Corps' permission. Finding that respondent's property was characterized by the presence of vegetation
requiring saturated soil conditions for growth, that the source of such
soil conditions was ground water, and that the wetland on the property
was adjacent to a body of navigable water, the District Court held that
the property was wetland subject to the Corps' permit authority. The
Court of Appeals reversed, construing the Corps' regulation to exclude
from the category of adjacent wetlands -and hence from that of "waters
of the United States"-wetlands that are not subject to flooding by adjacent navigable waters at a frequency sufficient to support the growth of
aquatic vegetation. The court took the view that the Corps' authority
under the Act and its implementing regulations must be narrowly construed to avoid a taking without just compensation in violation of the
Fifth Amendment. Under this construction, it was held that respondent's property was not within the Corps' jurisdiction, because its semiaquatic characteristics were not the result of frequent flooding by the
nearby navigable waters, and that therefore respondent was free to fill
the property without obtaining a permit.
Held:
1. The Court of Appeals erred in concluding that a narrow reading of
the Corps' regulatory jurisdiction over wetlands was necessary to avoid
a taking problem. Neither the imposition of the permit requirement

