HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.

81

Syllabus.

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 870. Argued May 10, 11, 1943.-Decided June 21. 1943.
1. Where a defendant is convicted on two counts of an indictment and
the sentences are ordered to run concurrently, it is unnecessary on
review to consider the validity of the sentence on both of the counts
if the sentence on one of them is sustainable. P. 85.
2. Pursuant to Executive Order No. 9066, promulgated by the President on February 19, 1942 while the United States was at war with
Japan, the military commander of the Western Defense Command
promulgated an order requiring, inter alia, that all persons of Japanese ancestry within a designated military area "be within their
place of residence between the hours of 8 p. m. and 6 a. m." Appellant, a United States citizen of Japanese ancestry, was convicted
in the federal District Court for violation of this curfew order.
Held:
(1) By the Act of March 21, 1942, Congress ratified and confirmed
Executive Order No. 9066, and thereby authorized and implemented
such curfew orders as the military commander should promulgate
pursuant to that Executive Order. P. 91.
(2) It was within the constitutional authority of Congress and
the Executive, acting together, to prescribe this curfew order as an
emergency war measure. P. 92.
In the light of all the facts and circumstances, there was substan.
tial basis for the conclusion, in which Congress and the military commander united, that the curfew as applied was a protective measure
necessary to meet the threat of sabotage and espionage which would
substantially affect the war effort and which might reasonably be
expected to aid a threatened enemy invasion. P. 95.
(3) The curfew order did not unconstitutionally discriminate
against citizens of Japanese ancestry. P. 101.
(a) The Fifth Amendment contains no equal protection clause
and it restrains only such discriminatory legislation by Congress
as amounts to a denial of due process. P. 100.
(b) The curfew order as applied, and at the time it was applied,
was within the boundaries of the war power. P. 102.

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Counsel for Parties.

320 U. S.

(c) The adoption by the Government, in the crisis of war and of
threatened invasion, of measures for the public safety, based upon
the recognition of facts and circumstances which indicate that a group
of one national extraction may menace that safety more than others,
is not to be condemned as unconstitutional merely because in other
and in most circumstances racial distinctions are irrelevant. P. 101.
(d) An appropriate exercise of the war power is not rendered invalid by the fact that it restricts the liberty of citizens. P. 99.
(4) The promulgation of the curfew order by the military commander was based on no unconstitutional delegation of legislative
power. P. 102.
The essentials of the legislative function are preserved when
Congress provides that a statutory command shall become operative upon ascertainment of a basic conclusion of fact by a designated representative of the Government. The Act of March 21,
1942, which authorized that curfew orders be made pursuant to
Executive Order No. 9066 for the protection of war resources from
espionage and sabotage, satisfies those requirements. P. 104.
Affirmed.
RESPONSE to questions certified by the Circuit Court

of Appeals upon an appeal to that court from a conviction in the District Court upon two counts of an indictment charging violations of orders promulgated by the
military commander of the Western Defense Command.
This Court directed that the entire record be certified so
that the case could be determined as if brought here by

appeal. See 46 F. Supp. 657.
Messrs. Frank L. Walters and HaroldEvans, with whom

Messrs. Osmond K. Fraenkel, Arthur G. Barnett, Edwin
M. Borchard,Brien McMahon, and William DraperLewis
were on the brief (Mr. Alfred J. Schweppe entered an appearance), for Hirabayashi.

Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Messrs. Edward J.
Ennis, Arnold Raum, John L. Burling, and Leo Gitlin
were on the brief, for the United States.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed by Messrs. Arthur Garfield Hays, Osmond K. Fraenkel,and A. L. Wirin on behalf

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

of the American Civil Liberties Union; by Mr. A. L. Wirin
on behalf of the Japanese American Citizens League; and
by Mr. Jackson H. Ralston on behalf of the Northern
California Branch of the American Civil Liberties Union,-in support of Hirabayashi; and by Messrs. Robert
W. Kenny, Attorney General of California, I. H. Van
Winkle, Attorney General of Oregon, Smith Troy, Attorney General of the State of Washington, and Fred E.
Lewis, Chief Assistant and Acting Attorney General of
the State of Washington, on behalf of those States,urging affirmance.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Appellant, an American citizen of Japanese ancestry,
was convicted in the district court of violating the Act of
Congress of March 21, 1942, 56 Stat. 173, which makes
it a misdemeanor knowingly to disregard restrictions made
applicable by a military commander to persons in a military area prescribed by him as such, all as authorized by
an Executive Order of the President.
The questions for our decision are whether the particular restriction violated, namely that all persons of Japanese ancestry residing in such an area be within their
place of residence daily between the hours of 8:00 p. m.
and 6:00 a. In., was adopted by the military commander
in the exercise of an unconstitutional delegation by Congress of its legislative power, and whether the restriction
unconstitutionally discriminated between citizens of
Japanese ancestry and those of other ancestries in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
The indictment is in two counts. The second charges
that appellant, being a person of Japanese ancestry, had
on a specified date, contrary to a restriction promulgated
by the military commander of the Western Defense Command, Fourth Army, failed to remain in his place of resi-

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

dence in the designated military area between the hours
of 8:00 o'clock p. m. and 6:00 a. m. The first count
charges that appellant, on May 11 and 12, 1942, had, contrary to a Civilian Exclusion Order issued by the military
commander, failed to report to the Civil Control Station
within the designated area, it appearing that appellant's
required presence there was a preliminary step to the exclusion from that area of persons of Japanese ancestry.
By demurrer and plea in abatement, which the court
overruled (46 F. Supp. 657), appellant asserted that the
indictment should be dismissed because he was an American citizen who had never been a subject of and had never
borne allegiance to the Empire of Japan, and also because
the Act of March 21, 1942, was an unconstitutional delegation of Congressional power. On the trial to a jury it
appeared that appellant was born in Seattle in 1918, of
Japanese parents who had come from Japan to the United
States, and who had never afterward returned to Japan;
that he was educated in the Washington public schools
and at the time of his arrest was a senior in the University
of Washington; that he had never been in Japan or had
any association with Japanese residing there.
The evidence showed that appellant had failed to report
to the Civil Control Station on May 11 or May 12, 1942,
as directed, to register for evacuation from the military
area. He admitted failure to do so, and stated it had at
all times been his belief that he would be waiving his rights
as an American citizen by so doing. The evidence also
showed that for like reason he was away from his place
of residence after 8:00 p. m. on May 9, 1942. The jury
returned a verdict of guilty on both counts andappellant
was sentenced to imprisonment for a term of three months
on each, the sentences to run concurrently.
On appeal the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
certified to us questions of law upon which it desired in-

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

structions for the decision of the case. See § 239 of the
Judicial Code as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 346. Acting under the authority conferred upon us by that section we
ordered that the entire record be certified to this Court so
that we might proceed to a decision of the matter in controversy in the same manner as if it had been brought here
by appeal. Since the sentences of three months each imposed by the district court on the two counts were ordered
to run concurrently, it will be unnecessary to consider
questions raised with respect to the first count if we find
that the conviction on the second count, for violation of
the curfew order, must be sustained. Brooks v. United
States, 267 U. S.432, 441; Gorin v. United States, 312
U. S. 19, 33.
The curfew order which appellant violated, and to
which the sanction prescribed by the Act of Congress has
been deemed to attach, purported to be issued pursuant
to an Executive Order of the President. In passing upon
the authority of the military commander to make and
execute the order, it becomes necessary to consider in
some detail the official action which preceded or accompanied the order and from which it derives its purported
authority.
On December 8, 1941, one day after the bombing of
Pearl Harbor by a Japanese air force, Congress declared
war against Japan. 55 Stat. 795. On February 19, 1942,
the President promulgated Executive Order No. 9066. 7
Federal Register 1407. The Order recited that "the successful prosecution of the war requires every possible protection against espionage and against sabotage to national-defense material, national-defense premises, and
national-defense utilities as defined in Section 4, Act of
April 20, 1918, 40 Stat. 533, as amended by the Act of
November 30, 1940, 54 Stat. 1220, and the Act of August
21, 1941, 55 Stat. 655." By virtue of the authority vested

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

in him as President and as Commander in Chief of the
Army and Navy, the President purported to
"authorize and direct the Secretary of War, and the Military Commanders whom he may from time to time designate, whenever he or any designated Commander deems
such action necessary or desirable, to prescribe military
areas in such places and of such extent as he or the appropriate Military Commander may determine, from
which any or all persons may be excluded, and with respect to which, the right of any person to enter, remain
in, or leave shall be subject to whatever restrictions the
Secretary of War or the appropriate Military Commander
may impose in his discretion."
On February 20, 1942, the Secretary of War designated
Lt. General J. L. DeWitt as Military Commander of the
Western Defense Command, comprising the Pacific Coast
states and some others, to carry out there the duties prescribed by Executive Order No. 9066. On March 2, 1942,
General DeWitt promulgated. Public Proclamation No. 1.
7 Federal Register 2320. The proclamation recited that
the entire Pacific Coast "by its geographical location is
particularly subject to attack, to attempted invasion by
the armed forces of nations with which the United States
is now at war, and, in connection therewith, is subject to
espionage and acts of sabotage, thereby requiring the
adoption of military measures necessary to establish safeguards against such enemy operations." It stated that
"the present situation requires as a matter of military
necessity the establishment in the territory embraced by
the Western Defense Command of Military Areas and
Zones thereof"; it specified and designated as military
areas certain areas within the Western Defense Command; and it declared that "such persons or classes of
persons as the situation may require" would, by subsequent proclamation, be excluded from certain of these

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

areas, but might be permitted to enter or remain in certain others, under regulations and restrictions to be later
prescribed. Among the military areas so designated by
Public Proclamation No. 1 was Military Area No. 1, which
embraced, besides the southern part of Arizona, all the
coastal region of the three Pacific Coast states, including
the City of Seattle, Washington, where appellant resided.
Military Area No. 2, designated by the same proclamation, included those parts of the coastal states and of Arizona not placed within Military Area No. 1.
Public Proclamation No. 2 of March 16, 1942, issued
by General DeWitt, made like recitals and designated
further military areas and zones. It contained like provisions concerning the exclusion, by subsequent proclamation, of certain persons or classes of persons from these
areas, and the future promulgation of regulations and
restrictions applicable to persons remaining within them.
7 Federal Register 2405.
An Executive Order of the President, No. 9102, of March
18, 1942, established the War Relocation Authority, in
the Office for Emergency Management of the Executive
Office of the President; it authorized the Director of War
Relocation Authority to formulate and effectuate a program for the removal, relocation, maintenance and supervision of persons designated under Executive Order No.
9066, already referred to; and it conferred on the Director
authority to prescribe regulations necessary or desirable
to promote the effective execution of the program. 7
Federal Register 2165.
Congress, by the Act of March 21, 1942, provided: "That
whoever shall enter, remain in, leave, or commit any act
in any military area or military zone prescribed, under
the authority of an Executive order of the President, by
the Secretary of War, or by any military commander
designated by the Secretary of War, contrary to the restrictions applicable to any such area or zone or contrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

to the order of the Secretary of War or any such military
commander, shall, if it appears that he knew or should
have known of the existence and extent of the restrictions
or order and that his act was in violation thereof, be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be liable" to
fine or imprisonment, or both.
Three days later, on March 24, 1942, General DeWitt
issued Public Proclamation No. 3. 7 Federal Register
2543. After referring to the previous designation of military areas by Public Proclamations Nos. 1 and 2, it recited
that ". . . the present situation within these Military
Areas and Zones requires as a matter of military necessity
the establishment of certain regulations pertaining to all
enemy aliens and all persons of Japanese ancestry within
said Military Areas and Zones . . ." It accordingly declared and established that from and after March 27, 1942,
"all alien Japanese, all alien Germans, all alien Italians,
and all persons of Japanese ancestry residing or being
within the geographical limits of Military Area No.
1 . . . shall be within their place of residence between the
hours of 8:00 P. M. and 6:00 A. M., which period is hereinafter referred to as the hours of curfew." It also imposed certain other restrictions on persons of Japanese
ancestry, and provided that any person violating the
regulations would be subject to the criminal penalties
provided by the Act of Congress of March 21, 1942.
Beginning on March 24, 1942, the military commander
issued a series of Civilian Exclusion Orders pursuant to the
provisions of Public Proclamation No. 1. Each such order
related to a specified area within the territory of his command. The order applicable to appellant was Civilian Exclusion Order No. 57 of May 10, 1942. 7 Federal Register
3725. It directed that from and after 12:00 noon, May 16,
1942, all persons of Japanese ancestry, both alien and nonalien, be excluded from a specified portion of Military Area
No. 1 in Seattle, including appellant's place of residence,

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

and it required a member of each family, and each individual living alone, affected by the order to report on May 11
or May 12 to a designated Civil Control Station in Seattle.
Meanwhile the military commander had issued Public
Proclamation No. 4 of March 27, 1942, which recited the
necessity of providing for the orderly evacuation and resettlement of Japanese within the area, and prohibited all
alien Japanese and all persons of Japanese ancestry from
leaving the military area until future orders should permit.
7 Federal Register 2601.
Appellant does not deny that he knowingly failed to
obey the curfew order as charged in the second count of
the indictment, or that the order was authorized by the
terms of Executive Order No. 9066, or that the challenged
Act of Congress purports to punish with criminal penalties
disobedience of such an order. His contentions are only
that Congress unconstitutionally delegated its legislative
power to the military commander by authorizing him to
impose the challenged regulation, and that, even if the
regulation were in other respects lawfully authorized, the
Fifth Amendment prohibits the discrimination made between citizens of Japanese descent and those of other
ancestry.
It will be evident from the legislative history that the
Act of March 21, 1942M, contemplated and authorized the
curfew order which we have before us. The bill which
became the Act of March 21, 1942, was introduced in the
Senate on March 9th and in the House on March 10th
at the request of the Secretary of War who, in letters to
the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Military Affairs
and to the Speaker of the House, stated explicitly that its
purpose was to provide means for the enforcement of
orders issued under Executive Order No. 9066. This
appears in the committee reports on the bill, which set
out in full the Executive Order and the Secretary's letter.
88.Cong. Rec. 2722, 2725; H. R. Rep. No. 1906, 77th Cong.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

2d Sess.; S. Rep. No. 1171, 77th Cong., 2d Sess. And each
of the committee reports expressly mentions curfew orders as one of the types of restrictions which it was deemed
desirable to enforce by criminal sanctions.
When the bill was under consideration, General DeWitt
had published his Proclamation No. 1 of March 2, 1942,
establishing Military Areas Nos. 1 and 2, and that Proclamation was before Congress. S. Rep. No. 1171, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess., p. 2; see also 88 Cong. Rec. 2724. A letter
of the Secretary to the Chairman of the House Military
Affairs Committee, of March 14, 1942, informed Congress
that "General DeWitt is strongly of the opinion that the
bill, when enacted, should be broad enough to enable the
Secretary of War or the appropriate military commander
to enforce curfews and other restrictions within military
areas and zones"; and that General DeWitt had "indicated that he was prepared to enforce certain restrictions
at once for the purpose of protecting certain vital national
defense interests but did not desire to proceed until enforcement machinery had been set up." H. R. Rep. No.
1906, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 3. See also letter of the
Acting Secretary of War to the Chairman of the Senate
Military Affairs Committee, March 13, 1942, 88 Cong.
Rec. 2725.
The Chairman of the Senate Military Affairs Committee explained on the floor of the Senate that the purpose of the proposed legislation was to provide means of
enforcement of curfew orders and other military orders
made pursuant to Executive Order No. 9066. He read
General DeWitt's Public Proclamation No. 1, and statements from newspaper reports that "evacuation of the
first Japanese aliens and American-born Japanese" was
about to begin. He also stated to the Senate that "reasons for suspected widespread fifth-column activity
among Japanese" were to be found in the system of dual
citizenship which Japan deemed applicable to American-

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

born Japanese, and in the propaganda disseminated by
Japanese consuls, Buddhist priests and other leaders,
among American-born children of Japanese. Such was
stated to be the explanation of the contemplated evacuation from the Pacific Coast area of persons of Japanese
ancestry, citizens as well as aliens. 88 Cong. Rec. 272226; see also pp. 2729-30. Congress also had before it
the Preliminary Report of a House Committee investigating national defense migration, of March 19, 1942,
which approved the provisions of Executive Order No.
9066, and which recommended the evacuation, from military areas established under the Order, of all persons of
Japanese ancestry, including citizens. H. R. Rep. No.
1911, 77th Cong., 2d Sess. The proposed legislation provided criminal sanctions for violation of orders, in terms
broad enough to include the curfew order now before us,
and the legislative history demonstrates that Congress
was advised that curfew orders were among those intended, and was advised also that regulation of citizen
and alien Japanese alike was contemplated.
The conclusion is inescapable that Congress, by the Act
of March 21, 1942, ratified and confirmed Executive Order No. 9066. Prize Cases, 2 Black 635, 671; Hamilton
v. Dillin, 21 Wall. 73, 96-97; United States v. Heinszen
& Co., 206 U. S. 370, 382-84; Tiaco v. Forbes, 228 U. S.
549, 556; Isbrandtsen-Moller Co. v. United States, 300
U. S. 139, 146-48; Swayne & Hoyt, Ltd. v. United States,
300 U. S. 297, 300-03; Mason Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 302
U. S. 186, 208. And so far as it lawfully could, Congress authorized and implemented such curfew orders as
the commanding officer should promulgate pursuant to
the Executive Order of the President. The question then
is not one of Congressional power to delegate to the President the promulgation of the Executive Order, but
whether, acting in coperation, Congress and the Executive have constitutional authority to impose the cur-

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion. of the Court.

320 U.S.

few restriction here complained of. We must consider
also whether, acting together, Congress and the Executive
could leave it to the designated military commander to
appraise the relevant conditions and on the basis of that
appraisal to say whether, under the circumstances, the
time and place were appropriate for the promulgation of
the curfew order and whether the order itself was an appropriate means of carrying out the Executive Order for
the "protection against espionage and against sabotage"
to natioiial defense materials, premises and utilities. For
reasons presently to be stated, we conclude that it was
within the constitutional power of Congress and the executive arm of the Government to prescribe this curfew
order for the period under consideration and that its promulgation by the military commander involved no unlawful delegation of legislative power.
Executive Order No. 9066, promulgated in time of war
for the declared purpose of prosecuting the war by protecting national defense resources from sabotage and espionage, and the Act of March 21, 1942, ratifying and confirming the Executive Order, were each an exercise of the
power to wage war conferred on the Congress and on the
President, as Commander in Chief of the armed forces,
by Articles I and II of the Constitution. See Ex parte
Quirin, 317 U. S. 1, 25-26. We have no occasion to consider whether the President, acting alone, could lawfully
have made the curfew order in question, or have authorized others to make it. For the President's action has
the support of the Act of Congress, and we are immediately
concerned with the question whether it is within the constitutional power of the national government, through
the joint action of Congress and the Executive, to impose
this restriction as an emergency war measure. The exercise of that power here involves no question of martial
law or trial by military tribunal. Cf. Ex parte Milligan,4
Wall. 2; Ex parte Quirin, supra. Appellant has been

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

tried and convicted in the civil courts and has been subjected to penalties prescribed by Congress for the acts
committed.
The war power of the national government is "the
power to wage war successfully." See Charles Evans
Hughes, War Powers Under the Constitution, 42 A. B. A.
Rep. 232, 238. It extends to every matter and activity
so related to war as substantially to affect its conduct and
progress. The power is not restricted to the winning of
victories in the field and the repulse of enemy forces. It
embraces every phase of the national defense, including
the protection of war materials and the members of the
armed forces from injury and from the dangers which
attend the rise, prosecution and progress of war. Prize
Cases, supra; Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268, 30314; Stewart v. Kahn, 11 Wall. 493,506-07; Selective Draft
Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366; McKinley v. United States, 249
U. S. 397; United States v. Macintosh, 283 U. S. 605, 62223. Since tne Constitution commits to the Executive
and to Congress the exercise of the war power in all the
vicissitudes and conditions of warfare, it has necessarily
given them wide scope for the exercise of judgment and
discretion in determining the nature and extent of
the threatened injury or danger and in the selection
of the means for resisting it. Ex parte Quirin, supra,
28-29; cf. Prize Cases, supra, 670; Martin v. Mott, 12
Wheat. 19, 29. Where, as they did here, the conditions
call for the exercise of judgment and discretion and for
the choice of means by those branches of the Government
on which the Constitution has placed the responsibility
of war-making, it is not for any court to sit in review of
the wisdom of their action or substitute its judgment for
theirs.

The actions taken must be appraised in the light of the
conditions with which the President and Congress were
confronted in the early months of 1942, many of which,

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

since disclosed, were then peculiarly within the knowledge
of the military authorities. On December 7, 1941, the
Japanese air forces had attacked the United States Naval
Base at Pearl Harbor without warning, at the very hour
when Japanese diplomatic representatives were conducting negotiations with our State Department ostensibly for the peaceful settlement of differences between
the two countries. Simultaneously or nearly so, the Japanese attacked Malaysia, Hong Kong, the Philippines,
and Wake and Midway Islands. On the following day
their army invaded Thailand. Shortly afterwards they
sank two British battleships. On December 13th, Guam
was taken. On December 24th and 25th they captured
Wake Island and occupied Hong Kong. On January 2,
1942, Manila fell, and on February 10th Singapore,
Britain's great naval base in the East, was taken. On
February 27th the battle of the Java Sea resulted in a
disastrous naval defeat to the United Nations. By the
9th of March Japanese forces had established control over
the Netherlands East Indies; Rangoon and Burma were
occupied; Bataan and Corregidor were under attack.
Although the results of the attack on Pearl Harbor were
not fully disclosed until much later, it was known that
the damage was extensive, and that the Japanese by their
successes had gained a naval superiority over our forces
in the Pacific which might enable them to seize Pearl
Harbor, our largest naval base and the last stronghold of
defense lying between Japan and the west coast. That
reasonably prudent men charged with the responsibility
of our national defense had ample ground for concluding
that they must face the danger of invasion, take measures
against it, and in making the choice of measures consider
our internal situation, cannot be doubted.
The challenged orders were defense measures for the
avowed purpose of safeguarding the military area in
question, at a time of threatened air raids and invasion

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

by the Japanese forces, from the danger of sabotage and
espionage. As the curfew was made applicable to citizens
residing in the area only if they were of Japanese ancestry,
our inquiry must be whether in the light of all the facts
and circumstances there was any substantial basis for
the conclusion, in which Congress and the military commander united, that the curfew as applied was a protective
measure necessary to meet the threat of sabotage and
espionage which would substantially affect the war effort
and which might reasonably be expected to aid a threatened enemy invasion. The alternative which appellant
insists must be accepted is for the military authorities to
impose the curfew on all citizens within the military area,
or on none. In a case of threatened danger requiring
prompt action, it is a choice between inflicting obviously
needless hardship on the many, or sitting passive and
unresisting in the presence of the threat. Ve think that
constitutional government, in time of war, is not so powerless and does not compel so hard a choice if those charged
with the responsibility of our national defense have reasonable ground for believing that the threat is real.
When the orders were promulgated there was a vast
concentration, within Military Areas Nos. 1 and 2, of installations and facilities for the production of military
equipment, especially ships and airplanes. Important
Army and Navy bases were located in California and
Washington. Approximately one-fourth of the total
value of the major aircraft contracts then let by Government procurement officers were to be performed in the
State of California. California ranked second, and Washington fifth, of all the states of the Union with respect
to the value of shipbuilding contracts to be performed.1
IState Distribution of War Supply and Facility Contracts-June
1940 through December 1941 (issued by Office of Production Management, Bureau of Research and Statistics, January 18, 1942); Ibid.Cumulative through February 1943 (issued by War Production
Board, Statistics Division, April 3, 1943).

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

In the critical days of March 1942, the danger to our
war production by sabotage and espionage in this area
seems obvious. The German invasion of the Western
European countries had given ample warning to the world
of the menace of the "fifth column." Espionage by persons in sympathy with the Japanese Government had
been found to have been particularly effective in the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor.2 At a time of threatened
Japanese attack upon this country, the nature of our inhabitants' attachments to the Japanese enemy was consequently a matter of grave concern. Of the 126,000
persons of Japanese descent in the United States, citizens and non-citizens, approximately 112,000 resided in
California, Oregon and Washington at the time of the
adoption of the military regulations. Of these approximately two-thirds are citizens because born in the United
States. Not only did the great majority of such persons
reside within the Pacific Coast states but they were concentrated in or near three of the large cities, Seattle, Portland and Los Angeles, all in Military Area No. 1.There is support for the view that social, economic and
political conditions which have prevailed since the close
of the last century, when the Japanese began to come to
this country in substantial numbers, have intensified their
solidarity and have in large measure prevented their assimilation as an integral part of the white population.'
In addition, large numbers of children of Japanese par2

See "Attack upon Pearl Harbor by Japanese Armed Forces," Report of the Commission Appointed by the President, dated January
23, 1942, S. Doc. No. 159, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 12-13.
3Sixteenth Census of the United States, for 1940, Population, Second Series, Characteristics of the Population (Dept. of Commerce):
California, pp. 10, 61; Oregon, pp. 10, 50; Washington, pp. 10, 52.
See also H. R. Rep. No. 2124, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 91-100.
' Federal legislation has denied to the Japanese citizenship by n.'-uralization (R. S. § 2169; 8 U. S. C. § 703; see Ozawa v. United Statea,
260 U. S. 178), and the Immigration Act of 1924 excluded them from

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

entage are sent to Japanese language schools outside the
regular hours of public schools in the locality. Some of
these schools are generally believed to be sources of Japanese nationalistic propaganda, cultivating allegiance to
Japan! Considerable numbers, estimated to be approximately 10,000, of American-born children of Japanese
parentage have been sent to Japan for all or a part of their
education."
Congress and the Executive, including the military
commander, could have attributed special significance,
in its bearing on the loyalties of persons of Japanese descent, to the maintenance by Japan of its system of dual
citizenship. Children born in the United States of Japanese alien parents, and especially those children born
before December 1, 1924, are under many circumstances
deemed, by Japanese law, to be citizens of Japan." No
admission into the United States. 43 Stat. 161, 8 U. S. C. § 213.
State legislation has denied to alien Japanese the privilege of owning
land. 1 California General Laws (Deering, 1931), Act 261; 5 Oregon Comp. Laws Ann. (1940), § 61-102; 11 Washington Rev. Stat.
Ann. (Remington, 1933), §§ 10581-10582. It has also sought to prohibit intermarriage of persons of Japanese race with Caucasians.
Montana Rev. Codes (1935), § 5702. Persons of Japanese descent
have often been unable to secure professional or skilled employment
except in association with others of that descent, and sufficient employment opportunities of this character have not been available.
Mears, Resident Orientals on the American Pacific Coast (1927), pp.
188, 198-209, 402-03; H. R. Rep. No. 2124, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.,
pp. 101-38.
5 Hearings before the Select Committee Investigating National Defense Migration, House of Representatives, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., .pp.
11702, 11393-94, 11348.
o H. R. Rep. No. 1911, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 16.
Nationality Law of Japan, Article I and Article 20, § 3, and Regulations (Ordinance No. 26) of November 17, 1924,-aii printed in
Flournoy and Hudson, Nationality Laws (1929), pp. 382, 384-87.
See also Foreign Relations of the United States, 1924, vol. 2, pp.
411-13.

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
320 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

official census of those whom Japan regards as having thus
retained Japanese citizenship is available, but there is
ground for the belief that the number is large.8
The large number of resident alien Japanese, approximately one-third of all Japanese inhabitants of the country, are of mature years and occupy positions of influence
in Japanese communities. The association of influential
Japanese residents with Japanese Consulates has been
deemed a ready means for the dissemination of propaganda and for the maintenance of the influence of the
Japanese Government with the Japanese population in
this country.9
As a result of all these conditions affecting the life of
the Japanese, both aliens and citizens, in the Pacific Coast
area, there has been relatively little social intercourse between them and the white population. The restrictions,
both practical and legal, affecting the privileges and opportunities afforded to persons of Japanese extraction
residing in the United States, have been sources of irritation and may well have tended to increase their isolation,
and in many instances their attachments to Japan and its
institutions.
Viewing these data in all their aspects, Congress and
the Executive could reasonably have concluded that these
conditions have encouraged the continued attachment of
members of this group to Japan and Japanese institutions.
8 Statistics released in 1927 by the Consul General of Japan at San
Francisco asserted that over 51,000 of the approximately 63,000
American-born persons of Japanese parentage then in the western

part of the United States held Japanese citizenship. Mears, Resident
Orientals on the American Pacific Coast, pp. 107-08, 429.

A census

conducted under the auspices of the Japanese government in 1930
asserted that approximately 47% of American-born persons of Japanese parentage in California held dual citizenship.
Second-Generation Japanese Problem (1934), p. 142.
9 H. R. Rep. No. 1911, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 17.

Strong, The

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

These are only some of the many considerations which
those charged with the responsibility for the national
defense could take into account in determining the nature
and extent of the danger of espionage and sabotage, in
the event of invasion or air raid attack. The extent of
that danger could be definitely known only after the event
and after it was too late to meet it. Whatever views we
may entertain regarding the loyalty to this country of
the citizens of Japanese ancestry, we cannot reject as
unfounded the judgment of the military authorities and
of Congress that there were disloyal members of that population, whose number and strength could not be precisely and quickly ascertained. We cannot say that the
war-making branches of the Government did not have
ground for believing that in a critical hour such persons
could not readily be isolated and separately dealt with,
and constituted a menace to the national defense and
safety, which demanded that prompt and adequate measures be taken to guard against it.
Appellant does not deny that, given the danger, a curfew was an appropriate measure against sabotage. It is
an obvious protection against the perpetration of sabotage
most readily committed during the hours of darkness. If
it was an appropriate exercise of the war power its validity is not impaired because it has restricted the citizen's
liberty. Like every military control of the population
of a dangerous zone in war time, it necessarily involves
some infringement of individual liberty, just as does the
police establishment of fire lines during a fire, or the
confinement of people to their houses during an air
raid alarm-neither of which could be thought to be an
infringement of constitutional right. Like them, the
validity of the restraints of the curfew order depends on
all the conditions which obtain at the time the curfew is
imposed and which support the order imposing it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

But appellant insists that the exercise of the power is
inappropriate and unconstitutional because it discriminates against citizens of Japanese ancestry, in violation
of the Fifth Amendment. The Fifth Amendment contains no equal protection clause and it restrains only such
discriminatory legiilation by Congress as amounts to a
denial of due process. Detroit Bank v. United States,
317 U. S. 329, 337-38, and cases cited. Congress may hit
at a particular danger where it is seen, without providing
for others which are not so evident or so urgent. Keokee
Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224, 227.
Distinctions between citizens solely because of their
ancestry are by their very nature odious to a free people
whose institutions are founded upon the doctrine of equality. For that reason, legislative classification or discrimination based on race alone has often been held to be a
denial of equal protection. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U.
S. 356; Yu Cong Eng v. Trinidad, 271 U. S. 500; Hill v.
Texas, 316 U. S. 400. We may assume that these considerations would be controlling here were it not for the fact
that the danger of espionage and sabotage, in time of war
and of threatened invasion, calls upon the military authorities to scrutinize every relevant fact bearing on the loyalty of populations in the danger areas. Because racial
discriminations are in most circumstances irrelevant and
therefore prohibited, it by no means follows that, in dealing with the perils of war, Congress and the Executive are
wholly precluded from taking into account those facts
and circumstances which are relevant to measures for our
national defense and for the successful prosecution of the
war, and which may in fact place citizens of one ancestry
in a different category from others. "We must never forget, that it is a constitution we are expounding," "a constitution intended to endure for ages to come, and, consequently, to be adapted to the various crises of human

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

affairs." McCulloch v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, 407, 415.
The adoption by Government, in the crisis of war and of
threatened invasion, of measures for the public safety,
based upon the recognition of facts and circumstances
which indicate that a group of one national extraction
may menace that safety more than others, is not wholly
beyond the limits of the Constitution and is not to be condemned merely because in other and in most circumstances racial distinctions are irrelevant. Cf. Clarke v.
Deckebach, 274 U. S. 392, and cases cited.
Here the aim of Congress and the Executive was the
protection against sabotage of war materials and utilities
in areas thought to be in danger of Japanase invasion and
air attack. We have stated in detail facts and circumstances with respect to the American citizens of Japanese ancestry residing on the Pacific Coast which support
the judgment of the war-waging branches of the Government that some restrictivo measure was urgent. We
cannot say that these facts and circumstances, considered in the particular war setting, could afford no ground
for differentiating citizens of Japanese ancestry from other
groups in the United States. The fact alone that attack
on our shores was threatened by Japan rather than another enemy power set these citizens apart from others
who have no particular associations with Japan.
Our investigation here does not go beyond the inquiry
whether, in the light of all the relevant circumstances preceding and attending their promulgation, the challenged
orders and statute afforded a reasonable basis for the
action taken in imposing the curfew. We cannot close
our eyes to the fact, demonstrated by experience, that in
time of war residents having ethnic affiliations with an
invading enemy may be a greater source of danger than
those of a different ancestry. Nor can we deny that
Congress, and the military authorities acting with its

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

authorization, have constitutional power to appraise the
danger in the light of facts of public notoriety. We need
not now attempt to define the ultimate boundaries of the
war power. We decide only the issue as we have defined
it-we decide only that the curfew order as applied, and
at the time it was applied, was within the boundaries of
the war power. In this case it is enough that circumstances within the knowledge of those charged with the
responsibility for maintaining the national defense afforded a rational basis for the decision which they made.
Whether we would have made it is irrelevant.
What we have said also disposes of the contention that
the curfew order involved an unlawful delegation by Congress of its legislative power. The mandate of the Constitution that all legislative power granted "shall be vested
in Congress" has never been thought, even in the administration of civil affairs, to preclude Congress from resorting to the aid of executive or administrative officers in
determining by findings whether the facts are such as to
call for the application of previously adopted legislative
standards or definitions of Congressional policy.
The purpose of Executive Order No. 9066, and the
standard which the President approved for the orders authorized to be promulgated by the military commanderas disclosed by the preamble of the Executive Order-was
the protection of our war resources against espionage and
sabotage. Public Proclamations Nos. 1 and 2 by General
DeWitt, contain findings that the military areas created
and the measures to be prescribed for them were required
to establish safeguards against espionage and sabotage.
Both the Executive Order and the Proclamations were
before Congress when the Act of March 21, 1942, was
under consideration. To the extent that the Executive
Order authorized orders to be promulgated by the military
commander to accomplish the declared purpose of the

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

Opinion of the Court.

Order, and to the extnt that the findings in the Proclamations establish that such was their purpose, both have
been approved by Congress.
It is true that the Act does not in terms establish a
particular standard to which orders of the military commander are to conform, or require findings to be made as
a prerequisite to any order. But the Executive Order,
the Proclamations and the statute are not to be read in
isolation from each other. They were parts of a single
program and must be judged as such. The Act of March
21, 1942, was an adoption by Congress of the Executive
Order and of the Proclamations. The Proclamations
themselves followed a standard authorized by the Executive Order-the necessity of protecting military resources
in the designated areas against espionage and sabotage.
And by the Act, Congress gave its approval to that standard. We have no need to consider now the validity of
action if taken by the military commander without conforming to this standard approved by Congress, or the
validity of orders made without the support of findings
showing that they do so conform. Here the findings of
danger from espionage and sabotage, and of the necessity
of the curfew order to protect against them, have been
duly made. General DeWitt's Public Proclamation No.
3, which established the curfew, merely prescribed regulations of the type and in the manner which Public Proclamations Nos. 1 and 2 had announced would be prescribed
at a future date, and was thus founded on the findings of
Proclamations Nos. 1 and 2.
The military commander's appraisal of facts in the light
of the authorized standard, and the inferences which he
drew from those facts, involved the exercise of his informed judgment. But as we have seen, those facts, and
the inferences which could be rationally drawn from them,
support the judgment of the military commander, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

the danger of espionage and sabotage to our military
resources was imminent, and that the curfew order was
an appropriate measure to meet it.
Where, as in the present case, the standard set up for
the guidance of the military commander, and the action
taken and the reasons for it, are in fact recorded in the
military orders, so that Congress, the courts and the public are assured that the orders, in the judgment of the
commander, conform to the standards approved by the
President and Congress, there is no failure in the performance of the legislative function. Opp Cotton Mills
v. Administrator, 312 U. S. 126, 142-46, and cases cited.
The essentials of that function are the determination by
Congress of the legislative policy and its approval of a
rule of conduct to carry that policy into execution. The
very necessities which attend the conduct of military operations in time of war in this instance as in many others
preclude Congress from holding committee meetings to
determine whether there is danger, before it enacts legislation to combat the danger.
The Constitution as a continuously operating charter
of government does not demand the impossible or the impractical. The essentials of the legislative function are
preserved when Congress authorizes a statutory command
to become operative, upon ascertainment of a basic conclusion of fact by a designated representative of the Government. Cf. The Aurora, 7 Cranch 382; United States
v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1, 12. The present
statute, which authorized curfew orders to be made pursuant to Executive Order No. 9066 for the protection of
war resources from espionage and sabotage, satisfies those
requirements. Under the Executive Order the basic
facts, determined by the military commander in the light
of knowledge then available, were whether that danger
existed and whether a curfew order was an appropriate
means of minimizing the danger. Since his findings to

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

DOUGLAS,

105

J., concurring.

that effect were, as we have said, not without adequate
support, the legislative function was performed and the
sanction of the statute attached to violations of the curfew order. It is unnecessary to consider whether or to
what extent such findings would support orders differing
from the curfew order.
The conviction under the second count is without constitutional infirmity. Hence we have no occasion to review the conviction on the first count since, as already
stated, the sentences on the two counts are to run concurrently and conviction on the second is sufficient to sustain
the sentence. For this reason also it is unnecessary to
consider the Government's argument that compliance
with the order to report at the Civilian Control Station
did not necessarily entail confinement in a relocation

center.

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

concurring:

While I concur in the result and agree substantially
with the opinion of the Court, I wish to add a few
words to indicate what for me is the narrow ground of
decision.
After the disastrous bombing of Pearl Harbor the military had a grave problem on its hands. The threat of
Japanese invasion of the west coast was not fanciful but
real. The presence of many thousands of aliens and citizens of Japanese ancestry in or near to the key points
along that coast line aroused special concern in those
charged with the defense of the country. They believed
that not only among aliens but also among citizens of
Japanese ancestry there were those who would give aid
and comfort to the Japanese invader and act as a fifth
column before and during an invasion.1 If the military

I Judge

Fee stated in United States v.Yasui, 48 F. Supp. 40, 44-45,

the companion case to the present one, "The areas and zones outlined
in the proclamations became a theatre of operations, subjected in

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DOUGLAS, J.,

concurring.

320 U. S.

were right in their belief that among citizens of Japanese
ancestry there was an actual or incipient fifth column,
we were indeed faced with the imminent threat of a dire
emergency. We must credit the military with as much
good faith in that belief as we would any other public
official acting pursuant to his duties. We cannot possibly
know all the facts which lay behind that decision. Some
of them may have been as intangible and as imponderable
as the factors which influence personal or business decisions in daily life. The point is that we cannot sit in
judgment on the military requirements of that hour.
Where the orders under the present Act have some relation to "protection against espionage and against sabotage," our task is at an end.
Much of the argument assumes that as a matter of
policy it might have been wiser for the military to have
dealt with these people on an individual basis and through
the process of investigation and hearings separated those
who were loyal from those who were not. But the wisdom or expediency of the decision which was made is not
for us to review. Nor are we warranted where national
survival is at stake in insisting that those orders should
not have been applied to anyone without some evidence
of his disloyalty. The orders as applied to the petitioner
are not to be tested by the substantial evidence rule.
Peacetime procedures do not necessarily fit wartime needs.
It is said that if citizens of Japanese ancestry were generally disloyal, treatment on a group basis might be justified. But there is no difference in power when the numlocalities to attack and all threatened during this period with a full
sdale invasion. The danger at the time this prosecution was instituted was immincnt and immediate. The difficulty of controlling
members of an alien race, many of whom, although citizens, were
disloyal with opportunities of sabotage and espionage, with invasion
imminent, presented a problem requiring for solution ability and
devotion of the highest order."

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

ber of those who are finally shown to be disloyal or suspect
is reduced to a small per cent. The sorting process might
indeed be as time-consuming whether those who were
disloyal or suspect constituted nine or ninety-nine per
cent. And the pinch of the order on the loyal citizens
would be as great in any case. But where the peril is
great and the time is short, temporary treatment on a
group basis may be the only practicable expedient whatever the ultimate percentage of those who are detained
for cause. Nor should the military be required to wait
until espionage or sabotage becomes effective before it
moves.
It is true that we might now say that there was ample
time to handle the problem on the individual rather than
the group basis. But military decisions must be made
without the benefit of hindsight. The orders must be
judged as of the date when the decision to issue them was
made. To say that the military in such cases should
take the time to weed out the loyal from the others would
be to assume that the nation could afford to have them
take the time to do it. But as the opinion of the Court
makes clear, speed and dispatch may be of the essence.
Certainly we cannot say that those charged with the defense of the nation should have procrastinated until investigations and hearings were completed. At that time
further delay might indeed have seemed to be wholly incompatible with military responsibilities.
Since we cannot override the military judgment which
lay behind these orders, it seems to me necessary to concede that the army had the power to deal temporarily
with these people on a group basis. Petitioner therefore
was not justified in disobeying the orders.
But I think it important to emphasize that we are
dealing here with a problem of loyalty not assimilation.
Loyalty is a matter of mind and of heart not of race. That
indeed is the history of America. Moreover, guilt is per-

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Douams, J., concurring.

320 U. S.

sonal under our constitutional system. Detention for
reasonable cause is one thing. Detention on account of
ancestry is another.
In this case the petitioner tendered by a plea in abatement the question of his loyalty to the United States.
I think that plea was properly stricken; military measures of defense might be paralyzed if it were necessary
to try out that issue preliminarily. But a denial of that
opportunity in this case does not necessarily mean that
petitioner could not have had a hearing on that issue in
some appropriate proceeding. Obedience to the military
orders is one thing. Whether an individual member of
a group must be afforded at some stage an opportunity
to show that, being loyal, he should be reclassified is a
wholly different question.
There are other instances in the law where one must
obey an order before he can attack as erroneous the classification in which he has been placed. Thus it is commonly held that one who is a conscientious objector has no
privilege to defy the Selective Service Act and to refuse
or fail to be inducted. He must submit to the law. But
that line of authority holds that after induction he may
obtain through habeas corpus a hearing on the legality of

his classification by the draft board.' Whether in the
present situation that remedy would be available is one
2

See United States v. Powell, 38 F. Supp. 183; Application of Greenberg, 39 F. Supp. 13; United States v. Baird, 39 F. Supp. 392; Micheli
v. Paullin,45 F. Supp. 687; United States v. Embrey, 46 F. Supp. 916;
In re Rogers, 47 F. Supp. 265; Ex parte Stewart, 47 F. Supp. 410;
United States v. Smith, 48 F. Supp. 842; Ex parte Robert, 49 F.
Supp. 131; United States v. Grieme, 128 F. 2d 811; Fletcher v.
United States, 129 F. 2d 262; Drumheller v. Berks County Local
Board No. 1, 130 F. 2d 610, 612. For cases arising under the Selective Draft Act of 1917, see United States v. Kinkead, 250 F. 692; Ex
parte McDonald, 253 F. 99; Ex parte Cohen, 254 F. 711; Arbitman v.
Woodside, 258 F. 441; Ex parte Thieret, 268 F. 472, 476. And see

10 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 827.

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

MURPHY, J., concurring.

of the large and important issues reserved by the present
decision. It has been suggested that an administrative
procedure has been established to relieve against unwarranted applications of these orders. Whether in that
event the administrative remedy would be the only one
available or would have to be first exhausted is also reserved. The scope of any relief which might be afforded-whether the liberties of an applicant could be
restored only outside the areas in question-is likewise a
distinct issue. But if it were plain that no machinery was
available whereby the individual could demonstrate his
loyalty as a citizen in order to be reclassified, questions of
a more serious character would be presented. The United
States, however, takes no such position. We need go no
further here than to deny the individual the right to defy
the law. It is sufficient to say that he cannot test in that
way the validity of the orders as applied to him.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

concurring:

It is not to be doubted that the action taken by the
military commander in pursuance of the authority conferred upon him was taken in complete good faith and in
the firm conviction that it was required by considerations
of public safety and military security. Neither is it
doubted that the Congress and the Executive working together may generally employ such measures as are necessary and appropriate to provide for the common defense
and to wage war "with all the force necessary to make it
effective." United States v. Macintosh, 283 U. S. 605,
622. This includes authority to exercise measures of control over persons and property which would not in all
cases be permissible in normal times.'
I Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47; Debs v. United States,
249 U. S. 211; United States v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 315 U. S. 289,
305; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 250 U. S. 135; Da-

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MuRPHY, J., concurring.

320 U. S.

It does not follow, however, that the broad guaranties
of the Bill of Rights and other provisions of the Constitution protecting essential liberties are suspended by the
mere existence of a state of war. It has been frequently
stated and recognizcd by this Court that the war power,
like the other great substantive powers of government,
is subject to the limitations of the Constitution. See
Ex parte Milligan,4 Wall. 2; Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146, 156; Home Building & Loan
Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 426. We give great deference to the judgment of the Congress and of the military authorities as to what is necessary in the effective
prosecution of the war, but we can never forget that there
are constitutional boundaries which it is our duty to uphold. It would not be supposed, for instance, that public elections could be suspended or that the prerogatives
of the courts could be set aside, or that persons not charged
with offenses against the law of war (see Ex parte Quirin,
317 U. S. 1) could be deprived of due process of law and
the benefits of trial by jury, in the absence of a valid declaration of martial law. Cf. Ex parte Milligan, supra.
Distinctions based on color and ancestry are utterly
inconsistent with our traditions and ideals. They are
at variance with the principles for which we are now waging war. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that for
centuries the Old World has been torn by racial and religious conflicts and has suffered the worst kind of anguish because of inequality of treatment for different
groups. There was one law for one and a different law
for another. Nothing is written more firmly into our law
than the compact of the Plymouth voyagers to have just
kota Central Tel. Co. v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 163; Highland V.
Russell Car Co., 279 U. S. 253; Selective Draft Law Cases, 245

U. S. 366.

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

MURPHY, J., concurring.

and equal laws. To say that any group cannot be assimilated is to admit that the great American experiment has failed, that our way of life has failed when confronted with the normal attachment of certain groups to
the lands of their forefathers. As a nation we embrace
many groups, some of them among the oldest settlements
in our midst, which have isolated themselves for religious
and cultural reasons.
Today is the first time, so far as I am aware, that we
have sustained a substantial restriction of the personal
liberty of citizens of the United States based upon the
accident of race or ancestry. Under the curfew order
here challenged no less than 70,000 American citizens
have been placed under a special ban and deprived of
their liberty because of their particular racial inheritance.
In this sense it bears a melancholy resemblance to the
treatment accorded to members of the Jewish race in Germany and in other parts of Europe. The result is the
creation in this country of two classes of citizens for the
purposes of a critical and perilous hour-to sanction discrimination between groups of United States citizens on
the basis of ancestry. In my opinion this goes to the
very brink of constitutional power.
Except under conditions of great emergency a regulation of this kind applicable solely to citizens of a particular racial extraction would not be regarded as in accord
with the requirement of due process of law contained in
the Fifth Amendment. We have consistently held that
attempts to apply regulatory action to particular groups
solely on the basis of racial distinction or classification
is not in accordance with due process of law as prescribed
by the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. Cf. Yick Wo
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369; Yu Cong Eng v. Trinidad,
271 U. S. 500, 524-28. See also Boyd v. Frankfort, 117
Ky. 199, 77 S. W. 669; Opinion of the Justices, 207 Mass.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MuPH Y, J., concurring.

320 U. S.

601, 94 N. E. 558. It is true that the Fifth Amendment,
unlike the Fourteenth, contains no guarantee of equal
protection of the laws. Cf. Currinv. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1,
14. It is also true that even the guaranty of equal protection of the laws allows a measure of reasonable classification. It by no means follows, however, that there
may not be discrimination of such an injurious character in the application of laws as to amount to a denial
of due process of law as that term is used in the Fifth
Amendment. 2 I think that point is dangerously approached when we have one law for the majority of our
citizens and another for those of a particular racial
heritage.
In view, however, of the critical military situation
which prevailed on the Pacific Coast area in the spring
of 1942, and the urgent necessity of taking prompt and
effective action to secure defense installations and military operations against the risk of sabotage and espionage, the military authorities should not be required to
conform to standards of regulatory action appropriate to
normal times. Because of the damage wrought by the
Japanese at Pearl Harbor and the availability of new
weapons and new techniques with greater capacity for
speed and deception in offensive operations, the immediate possibility of an attempt at invasion somewhere
along the Pacific Coast had to be reckoned with. However desirable such a procedure might have been, the
military authorities could have reasonably concluded at
2 For instance, if persons of an accused's race were systematically
excluded from a jury in a federal court, any conviction undoubtedly
would be considered a violation of the requirement of due process

of law, even though the ground commonly stated for setting aside
convictions so obtained in state courts is denial of equal protection
of the laws. Cf. Glasser v. United States, 315 U. S. 60, with Smith
v. Texas, 311 U. S. 128.

HIRABAYASHI v. UNITED STATES.
81

MusRr', J., concurring.

the time that determinations as to the loyalty and dependability of individual members of the large and widely
scattered group of persons of Japanese extraction on the
West Coast could not be made without delay that might
have had tragic consequences. Modern war does not
always wait for the observance of procedural requirements
that are considered essential and appropriate under normal conditions. Accordingly I think that the military
arm, confronted with the peril of imminent enemy attack and acting under the authority conferred by the
Congress, made an allowable judgment at the time the
curfew restriction was imposed. Whether such a restriction is valid today is another matter.
In voting for affirmance of the judgment I do not wish
to be understood as intimating that the military authorities in time of war are subject to no restraints whatsoever,
or that they are free to impose any restrictions they may
choose on the rights and liberties of individual citizens
or groups of citizens in those places which may be designated as "military areas." While this Court sits, it has
the inescapable duty of seeing that the mandates of the
Constitution are obeyed. That duty exists in time of
war as well as in time of peace, and in its performance we
must not forget that few indeed have been the invasions
upon essential liberties which have not been accompanied
by pleas of urgent necessity advanced in good faith by
responsible men. Cf. Mr. Justice Brandeis concurring
in Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357, 372.
Nor do I mean to intimate that citizens of a particular
racial group whose freedom may be curtailed within an
area threatened with attack should be generally prevented from leaving the area and going at large in other
areas that are not in danger of attack and where special
precautions are not needed. Their status as citizens,
though subject to requirements of national security and

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
RumTE,

J., concurring.

320 U. S.

military necessity, should at all times be accorded the
fullest consideration and respect. When the danger is
past, the restrictions imposed on them should be promptly
removed and their freedom of action fully restored.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring:

I concur in the Court's opinion, except for the suggestion, if that is intended (as to which I make no assertion),
that the courts have no power to review any action a military officer may "in his discretion" find it necessary to
take with respect to civilian citizens in military areas or
zones, once it is found that an emergency has created
the conditions requiring or justifying the creation of the
area or zone and the institution of some degree of military control short of suspending habeas corpus. Given
the generating conditions for exercise of military authority and recognizing the wide latitude for particular
applications that ordinarily creates, I do not think it is
necessary in this case to decide that there is no action a
person in the position of General DeWitt here may take,
and which he may regard as necessary to the region's or
the country's safety, which will call judicial power into
play. The officer of course must have wide discretion
and room for its operation. But it does not follow there
may not be bounds beyond which he cannot go and, if
he oversteps them, that the courts may not have power
to protect the civilian citizen. But in this case that question need not be faced and I merely add my reservation
without indication of opinion concerning it.

