OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

ILLINOIS STEEL CO. v. BALTIMORE & OHIO
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE APPELLATE COURT OF ILLINOIS, FIRST

DISTRICT.

No. 99. Argued December 16, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.
1. A state court decision interpreting clauses of a uniform bill of lading prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission under
authority of the Interstate Commerce Act, in a suit by a carrier to
recover charges for an interstate shipment, is reviewable here by
certiorari under Jud. Code § 237 (b). P. 511.
2. The consignor of an interstate shipment upon a uniform bill of
lading stipulated that charges were "to be prepaid" and also signed
the "non-recourse" clause. Because of the manner in which the
shipment was handled by the consignee upon delivery, a higher
rate than that specified in the bill of lading became applicable.
Held that the carrier was not entitled to recover the additional
charges from the consignor. P. 515.
With respect to the charges here, the prepayment clause did
not, either by its design or by the intention of the parties, curtail
the operation of the "non-recourse" clause. P. 515.
3. A carrier may insure collection of unanticipated freight charges by
demandingr pursuant to § 7 of the conditions of the uniform bill of
lading, the consignor's guarantee of all charges. P. 515.
316 Ill. App. 516, 46 N. E. 2d 144, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 721, to review a judgment which

reversed a judgment for the defendant in a suit to recover
freight charges. Leave to appeal to the highest court of
the State was denied by that court.
Mr. PaulR. Conaghan for petitioner.
Mr. Francis R. Cross, with whom Mr. George E. Hamilton was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Decision in this case turns on the proper interpretation
to be given to several clauses of the uniform bill of lading

ILLINOIS STEEL CO. v. B. &. 0. R. CO.
508

509

Opinion of the Court.

approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission as authorized by §§ 1 (6), 12 and 15 (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, 49 U. S. C. §§ 1 (6), 12, 15 (1),
which make it the duty of interstate rail carriers to adopt
and observe the form and substance of bills of lading
approved by the Commission. Matter of Bills of Lading,
52 I. C. C. 671, 685, 686; 64 I. C. C. 347, 351-352; 64
I. C. C. 357; 66 I. C. C. 63; 167 I. C. C. 214; 172 I. C. C.
362; 245 I. C. C. 527.
Petitioner was the consignor upon through bills of
lading of a number of rail shipments of sulphate of ammonia for export. The shipments were from Gary, Indiana to Baltimore, Maryland over the lines of connecting
railroads, of which respondent was the terminal carrier.
Each bill of lading ' contained a clause, inserted by petitioner, the consignor, in conformity to instructions appearing on the bill, and providing that freight was "to
be prepaid"; and also the so-called non-recourse clause
which petitioner signed and which read: "If this shipment
is to be delivered to the consignee without recourse on the
consignor, the consignor shall sign the following statement: The carrier shall not make delivery of this shipment
without payment of freight and all other lawful charges.
(See Section 7 of conditions.)" ' Petitioner at shipment
paid the freight charges specified in the bills of lading,
which were computed at the export freight rate. The
bills of lading included a receipt for specified sums paid
I Specimen forms of the uniform bills of lading, prescribed for interstate rail shipments during the period when the shipments concerned
in this action were made, may be found in Consolidated Freight Classification No. 7 (1932) pp. 52-56.
2 § 7 of the conditions of the bill of lading, so far as relevant, is set
out at page 512, infra. The parties have stipulated that the nonrecourse clause contained in the bills of lading in this case were in
the form quoted in the text. The form approved by the Commission
varies slightly in details immaterial here. See Consolidated Freight
Classification No. 7, supra, p. 52.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

to the carrier "to apply in prepayment of the charges.":
The record does not disclose who was the owner of the
sulphate, or what further relations existed between consignor and consignee.
The parties concede that upon delivery of the shipments
at Baltimore, the consignee did not handle the sulphate
as required by the provisions of the export tariff, and that
the delivery or the method of handling subjected the shipments to the higher domestic freight rate. The parties
have also stipulated that respondent is entitled to recover
from petitioner, additional freight charges to the extent
of the difference between the export rate and the higher
domestic rate, unless recovery is barred by the clauses of
the bills of lading to which we have referred.
Respondent brought the present suit in the Illinois
Superior Court to recover the additional freight due upon
the shipments. The Superior Court gave judgment for
petitioner, which the Illinois Appellate Court reversed,
316 Ill. App. 516, 46 N. E. 2d 144, and the Illinois Supreme
Court denied leave to appeal. We granted certiorari,
post, p. 721, the interpretation of the uniform bill of lading
in the circumstances of this case being a question of public
importance.
Pursuant to Congressional authority, the Interstate
Commerce Commission has prescribed uniform forms of
bills of lading, including that involved in this case. Matter of Bills of Lading, supra. In promulgating them, the
Commission has stated that it was doing so in the interest
of uniformity and to prevent discriminations. 52 I. C. C.
671, 676-677, 678; 64 I. C. C. 357, 363, 364. It has found
that the prescribed forms are just and reasonable, 52
I. C. C. 671, 740, and that any other would be unreasonable, 64 1.C.C. 357, 360-361, 364.
The construction of the clauses of a bill of lading,
adopted by the Commission and prescribed by Congress
for interstate rail shipments, presents a, federal question.

ILLINOIS STEEL CO. v. B. & 0. R. CO.
508

511

Opinion of the Court.

Georgia, F. & A. Ry. Co. v. Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S.
190, 194-195; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Martin,
283 U. S. 209, 212-213. Such has been the consistent ruling of this Court where the question presented concerned
the conditions in bills of lading affecting the liability of
the carrier such as are required by the Carmack Amendment, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 20 (11). Georgia,F. & A.
Ry. Co. v. Blish Milling Co., supra; Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. Harold, 241 U. S. 371; St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry.
Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S. 592; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Texas Packing Co., 244 U. S. 31, 34; American Railway
Express Co. v. Lindenburg, 260 U. S. 584; Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co. v. Martin, supra; cf. Peyton v. Railway Express Agency, 316 U. S. 350.
Since the clauses of the uniform bill of lading govern
the rights of the parties to an interstate shipment and
are prescribed by Congress and the Commission in the
exercise of the commerce power, they have the force of
federal law and questions as to their meaning arise under
the laws and Constitution of the United States. Hence
we have jurisdiction to review their determination by the
state courts, in a suit by the carrier to recover freight
charges. Judicial Code § 237 (b), 28 U. S. C. § 344 (b);
Pittsburgh,C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577,
581-583; New York Central & H. R. R. Co. v. York &
Whitney Co., 256 U. S. 406, 408; cf. Sola Electric Co. v.
Jefferson Co., 317 U. S. 173, 176-177; Peyton v. Railway
Express Agency, supra;Southern Railway Co. v. Prescott,
240 U. S. 632, 639-640.
The shipments by petitioner being in interstate commerce, the rail freight rates are those stated in the tariffs
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission. They
cannot be lawfully released by the carrier or altered by
others who have assumed the duty to pay them. See
Midstate HorticulturalCo. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., ante,
p. 356; Pittsburgh,C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Fink, supra,

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

581-583. The tariffs do not prescribe who is to pay the
freight charges, but subject to the prohibition against unlawful discrimination and the limitations imposed by the
uniform bill of lading, the parties to the shipment, as between themselves, are free to stipulate who shall pay them.
See Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Central Iron Co., 265
U. S. 59, 65-67.
Section 7 of the conditions of the uniform bill of lading
provides that the owner or consignee shall pay the freight
and all other lawful charges upon the transported property, and except in those instances where it may be lawfully authorized to do so, that no railroad carrier shall deliver or relinquish, at destination, possession of the property covered by the bill of lading until all tariff rates and
charges have been paid. Cf. § 3 (2) of the Interstate
Commerce Act, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 3 (2). But it
further provides that "The consignor shall be liable for the
freight and all other lawful charges, except that if the consignor stipulates, by signature, in the space provided for
that purpose on the face of this bill of lading that the carrier shall not make delivery without requiring payment of
such charges and the carrier, contrary to such stipulation,
shall make delivery without requiring such payment, the
consignor (except as hereinafter provided 3) shall not be
liable for such charges. .

.

. Nothing herein shall limit

the right of the carrier to require at time of shipment the
prepayment or guarantee of the charges. .
8

The exception, inapplicable here, is in the case where a consignee,

other than the consignor, is an agent with no beneficial title in the
goods, and has notified the carrier of these facts. In such a ease the
consignee is not "liable for transportation charges . . . (beyond those

billed against him at the time of delivery for which he is otherwise
liable) which may be found to be due after the property has been
delivered to him," but the consignor is liable for such charges. Cf.
§ 3 (2) of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, 49 U. S. C.

§ 3 (2).

ILLINOIS STEEL CO. v. B. & 0. R. CO.
508

513

Opinion of the Court.

Under these provisions, if the non-recourse clause is not
signed by the consignor, he remains liable to the carrier
for all lawful charges. The carrier is free to demand payment in advance by the consignor, or it may decline to
make delivery to the consignee until the freight charges
are paid or guaranteed, or if delivery is made to the consignee without payment, the consignee is also liable for
all freight charges. But if the non-recourse clause is
signed by the consignor and no provision is made for prepayment of freight, delivery of the shipment to the consignee relieves the consignor of liability, see Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Central Iron Co., supra, 66, n. 3, and
acceptance of the delivery establishes the liability of the
consignee to pay all freight charges. Pittsburgh,C., C.
& St. L. Ry. Co. v. Fink, supra; New York Central &
H. R. R. Co. v. York & Whitney Co., supra.
In the light of these long-established rules of liability
the facts of the present case raise only a single question,
whether the stipulation in the bills of lading for the prepayment of freight restricts the operation of the nonrecourse clause so that, despite its presence in the bills
of lading, recourse may be had to petitioner for charges
in addition to those which it prepaid at shipment, the
additional charges arising only by reason of events which
occurred on or after the delivery of the shipments to the
consignee.
The Illinois Appellate Court thought, and respondent
argues here, that this liability was imposed on the consignor only because the prepayment clause was so in conflict with the non-recourse clause as to nullify the latter
and thus revive the obligation which, in the absence of
that clause, rests on the consignor to pay all lawful charges
on his shipments. The question is whether there is such
a conflict as to require this result. For we must assume
that both clauses were intended by the parties to have
some effect, and hence, unless unavoidably in conflict, they

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

must, so far as they reasonably may, be reconciled so that
each will have some scope for operation.
The obvious purpose and effect of the non-recourse
clause is to relieve the shipper from liability for freight
charges, upon delivery to the consignee. Such a purpose is consistent With an intention that in case of prepayment of a portion of the freight charge, the carrier
should, after delivery, look solely to the consignee for
the remainder of the charge. Since, by the uniform bill
of lading, the parties to a rail shipment are left free to
relieve the consignor from liability by their contract, such
an arrangement would be within their competence and
would release the consignor from liability to the extent
of the unpaid freight charges.
It could not be said that by agreeing to pay a part
of the charges in advance, the consignor has agreed to
pay more, or that the non-recourse clause would cease
to be effective as to the unpaid charges because the consignor had paid or undertaken to pay some of them.
The words of § 7 of the conditions of the bill of lading
are to the effect that if the consignor stipulates that the
carrier shall not deliver "without requiring payment of
such charges" and the carrier makes delivery, the consignor "shall not be liable for such charges." In this context, "such charges" are the lawful charges which the
consignor has not paid or stipulated to pay in advance.
We discern no policy underlying the uniform bill of
lading or in the provisions of § 7 which would deny the application of the non-recourse clause where the consignor
has stipulated for advance payment of some but less than
all of the lawful charges. And no plausible reason is advanced why an agreement by the consignor to pay a part
of the lawful charges should be deemed to deprive him
of the benefit of the non-recourse clause beyond the
amount he has undertaken to pay.

ILLINOIS STEEL CO. v. B. & 0. R. CO.
508

515

Opinion of the Court.

We think that the same considerations point here to
the reconciliation of the conflict which the Illinois court
thought to exist in this case. For in the present circumstances we cannot say that the prepayment clause contemplated payment by the consignor of the additional
charges demanded at the domestic tariff rate and hence
we find no irreconcilable conflict between the prepayment
and non-recourse clauses.
Petitioner's stipulation was that the freight charges
were "to be prepaid" and the bill of lading acknowledged
receipt of specified sums "to apply in prepayment of the
charges." Hence the stipulation was for an obligation
to be performed in advance of the transportation or at the
most in advance of delivery to the consignee. This obligation could not have contemplated payment of more than
all the lawful charges upon the consignor's shipment as
tendered and transported in conformity to the billing. No
more could prepayment be made, before either shipment
or delivery, of a charge which might never be incurred,
and which could be, only after the transportation was
completed and delivery made to the consignee.
It is familiar experience, as in this case, that undercharges may occur which could not be subject to prepayment either because they are not lawful charges on the
shipment as tendered and billed, or because they depend
upon events occurring after the transportation has been
completed. In either case we conclude that the reasonable construction of the prepayment clause is that, with
respect to these charges, it did not, either by its design
or by the intention of the parties, curtail the operation
of the non-recourse clause, so as to deprive petitioner, the
consignor, of the immunity from liability for which it was
entitled to stipulate by the non-recourse clause. See
Chicago Great Western Ry. Co. v. Hopkins, 48 F. Supp.
60. This construction does not leave the carrier unprotected with respect to the collection of unanticipated

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

320 U.S.

freight charges, for it may always insure their collection
by demanding the consignor's guarantee of all charges,
pursuant to § 7 of the conditions of the uniform bill of
lading, a provision which presupposes that the prepayment of freight clause is not as broad as the authorized
guarantee.
In the special circumstances of this case we have no
occasion to consider the broader contention of petitioner
that the prepayment clause contemplated an undertaking
upon its part to pay only the amount of freight charges
specified on the face of the bill of lading, whether or not
they were computed at the lawful rate on the shipments as
tendered and billed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in

the result.

DIXIE PINE PRODUCTS CO. v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THN
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 84. Argued December 14, 15, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.
1. A taxpayer who kept his books on the accrual basis deducted on
his income tax returns for 1937 state taxes assessed against him
during the taxable year. He was contesting in the state courts his
liability for the taxes, was later adjudged exempt therefrom, and
never actually paid them. Held that, under the Revenue Act of
1936, the deduction was properly disallowed. P. 519.
2. The Board of Tax Appeals applied the correct rule of law in this
case, and the court below properly refused to disturb its determination. Dobson v. Commissioner, ante, p. 489. P. 519.
134 F. 2d 273, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 720, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 45 B. T. A. 286,
which sustained the Commissioner's determination of a
tax deficiency.

