220

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

320 U.S.

451, to issue writs of habeas corpus in aid of its appellate
jurisdiction. Cf. Ex parte Peru, 318 U. S. 578, 582-3.
That jurisdiction is discretionary, id. 584; Bowen v.
Johnston, 306 U. S. 19, 27, and this Court does not, save
in exceptional circumstances, exercise it in cases where
an adequate remedy may be had in a lower federal court,
Ex parte Current,314 U. S. 578; Ex parte Spaulding, 317
U. S. 593; Ex parte Hawk, 318 U. S. 746, or, if the relief
sought is from the judgment of a state court, where the
petitioner has not exhausted his remedies in the state
courts, Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103, 115; Ex parte
Botuvineki, 314 U. S. 586; Ex parte Davis, 317 U. S. 592,
318 U. S. 412; Ex parte Williams, 317 U. S. 604. Refusal
of the writ, without more, is not an adjudication on the
merits and is to be taken as without prejudice to an application to any other court for the relief sought.

UNITED STATES EX REL. McCANN v. ADAMS,
WARDEN, ET AL.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 371.

Decided November 8, 1943.

The petition to the District Court for a writ of habeas corpus adequately raised the issue, not previously adjudicated, whether, in a
prosecution in the District Court which resulted in a judgment of
conviction, the petitioner had intelligently-with full knowledge of
his rights and capacity to understand them-waived his right to
the assistance of counsel and to trial by jury; and, in the circumstances, the petitioner was entitled to an opportunity to establish

his claim. P. 221.
136 F. 2d 680, reversed.

PLTION for a writ of certiorari to review the affirmance of an order denying an application for a writ of
habeas corpus.

Gene McCann, pro se.

U. S. EX REL. McCANN v. ADAMS.
220

Opinion of the Court.

Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Tom C. Clark, and Mr. OscarA. Provost were on the brief
for respondents.
PER CURIAM.

This proceeding is a sequel to Adams v. U. S. ex rel.
McCann, 317 U. S. 269. We there reversed an order of
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit discharging the present relator from custody. We did so
because we held that, if his waiver was the exercise of
an intelligent choice made with the considered approval
of the trial court, he could as a matter of law waive his
right to a jury trial without being represented by counsel.
After the case went back to the Circuit Court of Appeals
on mandate and further steps not necessary here to
recount were taken, the relator filed a petition for a writ
of habeas corpus in the District Court which, with supporting affidavits, adequately raised the issue whether in
fact he intelligently-with full knowledge of his rights
and capacity to understand them-waived his right to the
assistance of counsel and to trial by jury. That issue,
as appears from our former opinion, was explicitly withdrawn from consideration on the habeas corpus proceedings previously before the Circuit Court of Appeals. 126
F. 2d 774. That issue, now fairly tendered by the petition
for habeas corpus below, has never been adjudicated on
its merits by the lower courts. But it is no longer within
the bosom of the trial court. Nor can it be disposed of
on the appeal of his conviction, for the claim rests on
materials dehors the trial proceedings. It is a claim
which the relator should be allowed to establish, if he
can. We cannot say that, in the light of the supporting
affidavits, the petition for a writ, of habeas corpus was
palpably unmeritorious, and should have been dismissed
without more. We are compelled therefore to accede to
the Government's consent to a reversal of the order of the

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

320 U. S.

Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the order denying the
application for the writ of habeas corpus.
The motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and
the petition for certiorari are therefore granted and the
judgment is reversed for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Petitioner's applications for
other relief are denied.
So ordered.
HUNTER COMPANY, INC. v. McHUGH, COMMISSIONER OF CONSERVATION, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 25. Argued October 18, 19, 1943.-Decided November 8, 1943.
1. The only order of the State Commissioner of Conservation which
was before the state courts in this case having been superseded
by later orders, the cause has become moot so far as it is concerned with the original order; and this Court, in reviewing on
appeal the judgment of the highest court of the State, is not free to,

and will not, adjudicate the constitutionality of the later orders,
where the state court has had no opportunity to pass upon their
validity under state law or the Federal Constitution. P. 226.
2. A State has constitutional power to regulate production of oil and
gas so as to prevent waste and to secure equitable apportionment
among landholders of the migratory gas and oil underlying their
land, fairly distributing among them the costs of production and of
the apportionment. P. 227.
3. Upon the record in this case, Act No. 157 of the Louisiana Acts of
1940 can not be held invalid on its face. P. 228.
Dismissed.
APPEAL from a judgment, 202 La. 97, 11 So. 2d 495,
which, reversing a decision of a lower state court, sustained
the constitutional validity, as applied to the appellant, of
an order promulgated by the State Commissioner of Conservation under authority of a state statute providing for
regulation of the production of oil and gas.

