476

OCTOBER TERM, 1943
Statement of the Case.

320 U. S.

BRADY, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 26. Argued October 19, 1943.-Decided December 20, 1943.
1. Upon review here of a state court decision under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, the question whether the evidence was
sufficient to justify submission of the case to the jury is for the determination of this Court. P. 479.
.2. Only by a uniform federal rule as to the sufficiency of the evidence
may litigants under the federal Act receive similar treatment in
all States. P. 479.
3. Where in a suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act the
evidence is such that a verdict for the defendant is the only reasonable conclusion, the trial court should determine the proceeding by
non-suit, directed verdict, or otherwise in accordance with the
applicable practice without submission to the jury, or by judgment
non obstante veredicto. P. 479.
4. The rule as to when a directed verdict is proper is applicable to
questions of proximate cause. P. 483.
5. Evidence in this case under the Federa Employers' Liability Act
held insufficient to warrant submission of the case to the jury.
P. 480.
(a) That the derailer was not equipped with a light was not
evidence of negligence of the carrier. P. 480.
(b) Relative to misuse of the derailer, there was no evidence
from which the jury could find negligence on the part of employees
of the carrier other than the decedent. P. 481.
(c) The degree of care which it must exercise did not require
the carrier to guard against a car striking the derailer from an
unexpected direction. P. 483.
(d) Liability of the carrier can not be predicated on the existence of the defective rail, since the rail was suitable for ordinary
use, was not the proximate cause of the accident, and misuse of the
derailer was not a danger reasonably to be anticipated. P. 482.
222 N. C. 367, 23 S. E. 2d 334, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 319 U. S. 777, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the plaintiff in an action under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act.

BRADY v. SOUTHERN RY. CO.
476

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Welch Jordan and D. E. Hudgins, with whom
Messrs Julius C. Smith and C. Clifford Frazier were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Sidney S. Alderman, with whom Messrs. Russell M.
Robinson, S. R. Prince, H. G. Hedrick, and W. T. Joyner
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case arose under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act.' Certiorari to the Supreme Court of North Carolina
was sought and granted to consider the retroactivity of
the last amendment to the Act in conjunction with the
contention that there was error in the ruling which held
the case improperly submitted to the jury by the trial
court. 319 U. S. 777. Our conclusion makes it unnecessary to consider the former problem.
The decedent, Earle A. Brady, was a brakeman. At
the time of his death he was employed in that capacity in
interstate commerce by the respondent, Southern Railway Company. The accident occurred during a switching movement in Virginia. The freight train upon which
decedent was acting as brakeman came north over a main
line and passed a switch which led into a storage track
running south parallel to and on the east of the main line.
There were four other members of the crew-the engineer,
the fireman, the flagman and the conductor.
After the entire train passed the switch, it was stopped
and backed into the storage track to permit another northbound train to go through on the main line and to pick
up twelve cars at the south end of the storage track. After the other train passed, decedent's train, without picking up the storage track cars, pulled out on to the main
line, backed southwardly beyond a vehicular grade cross235 Stat. 65, as amended; 36 Stat. 291; and 53 Stat. 1404.

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

ing which passed over the main line and the storage track
about one-eighth of a mile south of the switchpoints, left
the caboose and all the cars except the four nearest the
engine on the main line and returned north for the purpose
of again backing into the storage track to pick up the storage track cars. After coupling these cars on to the four
next to the engine, the intended movement was to pull out
again on the main line, back the train southwardly to the
cars left on the main line, couple up all the cars and proceed on the journey to the north.
As the engine and four cars backed slowly into the storage track, the decedent was riding the southeastern step of
the rear car, a gondola. It was 6:30 A. M. on Christmas
morning and so dark the work was carried on by lantern
signals. The trucks hit the wrong end of a derailer, located three or four car lengths from the switch, which was
closed so as to prevent cars on the storage track from drifting accidentally onto the main line.2 The contact derailed
the cars and. threw decedent to instant death under the
wheels.
Damages were sought for the alleged negligence of the
carrier in failing to furnish a reasonably safe place to work
by reason of defects in the track and derailer and, we assume since it was submitted to the jury and passed upon
by the Supreme Court of North Carolina, 222 N. C. at 370,
23 S. E. 2d 334, 337, by the act of some other employee in
improperly closing the derailer after the beginning and
2A derailer is a small but heavy iron device attached to a rail which
opens and closes over the rail by a lever, so as to derail or turn off the
track cars approaching the closed derailer from the expected direction.
When the derailer is open trains may pass in either direction without
interference. A train or car approaching a closed derailer from the
unexpected or wrong direction may successfully roll over the obstruction but more probably they, too, would be derailed. The apparatus
is not designed when closed to safely permit the passage of cars from
the unexpected direction.

BRADY v. SOUTHERN RY.CO.
476

Opinion of the Court.

before the fatal phase of the switching movement. Further there was a charge of negligence in failing to provide
a light or other warning to indicate the dangerous position

of the derailer.

A judgment for $20,000 was obtained in

the Superior Court which was reversed in the state Supreme Court on the ground of the failure of the evidence to
support the jury's verdict.
There is thus presented the problem of whether suffi-

cient evidence of negligence is furnished by the record to
justify the submission of the case to the jury. In Employers' Liability cases, this question must be determined by
this Court finally. Through the supremacy clause of the
Constitution, Art. VI, we are charged with assuring the
act's authority in state courts. Only by a uniform federal
rule as to the necessary amount of evidence may litigants
under the federal act receive similar treatment in all states.
Western & Atlantic R. Co. v. Hughes, 278 U. S. 496, 498;
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472,474.
Cf. United Gas Co. v. Texas, 303 U. S. 123, 143. It is true
that this Court has held that a state need not provide in
F. E. L. A. cases any trial by jury according to the requirements of the Seventh Amendment. Minneapolis & St.
Louis R. Co. v. Bombolis, 241 U. S. 211. But when a
state's jury system requires the court to determine the
sufficiency of the evidence to support a finding of a federal
right to recover, the correctness of its ruling is a federal
question. The weight of the evidence under the Employers' Liability Act must be more than a scintilla before the
case may be properly left to the discretion of the trier of
fact-in this case, the jury. Western & Atlantic R. Co. v.
Hughes, supra;Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Groeger, 266
U. S. 521, 524. Cf. Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90, 94;
Commissioners v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278, 284. When the
evidence is such that without weighing the credibility of
the witnesses there can be but one reasonable conclusion
as to the verdict, the court should determine the proceed-

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

ing by non-suit, directed verdict or otherwise in accordance
with the applicable practice without submission to the
jury, or by judgment notwithstanding the verdict. By
such direction of the trial the result is saved from the mischance of speculation over legally unfounded claims. Galloway v. United States, 319 U. S. 372; Pence v. United
States, 316 U. S. 332; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Groeger,
266 U. S. 521, n. 1; Anderson v. Smith, 226 U. S. 439;
Coughran v. Bigelow, 164 U. S. 301, 307; Gunning v.
Cooley, 281 U. S. 90, 93, note; Seaboard Air Line v. Padgett, 236 U. S. 668, 673; Parks v. Ross, 11 How. 362, 373.
See IX Wigmore on Evidence (3d ed., 1940), §§ 2494
et seq.
An examination of the proven facts to determine
whether they are sufficient to permit a verdict by the jury
for the decedent's estate based upon reason is of no doctrinal importance. Every case varies. However, the
soundness of the judgment entered in the state Supreme
Court depends upon an appraisal of the evidence and, as
to this, there is a difference of opinion here. Our conclusion is that there is failure to show in the record any
negligence of the carrier from not putting a light on the
derailer or by the action of other employees than decedent
in closing the derailer.
As to the light, it is nowhere shown that it was customary or even desirable in the operation of this or any other
railroad to equip derailers with such a signal. Apparently
lights on a derailer are not used on storage tracks where,
as at the place of the accident, an automatic block system
functions.
Nor do we find any evidence upon which a jury could
find negligence of other employees of the carrier in setting
the derailer without warning the decedent. On the first
backward movement into the storage track, the engineer
and fireman were in the engine cab at the front of the
train. There is no evidence that either left that posi-

BRADY v. SOUTHERN RY. CO.
476

Opinion of the Court.

tion until after the accident. As the entire train passed
the derailer then without incident and again upon its exit
from the storage track to return to the main line to cut
the train, there is no suggestion that the derailer was not
open during that part of the movement. As petitioner
states, "during switching operations it is the usual rule
and custom for the derailer to be kept off the track until
the switching operation is completed." This time the
switch was closed between the movement just referred to
and the return of the engine and four cars to the storage
track to pick up the cars waiting transportation.
The evidence shows without contrary intimation that
on the first movement into the storage track the twelve
cars to be picked up later were south of the crossing and
therefore more than an eighth of a mile from the switch.
"When the cars or the train was backed into the pass track
to let the northbound train pass, I [the conductor] threw
the switch and the derailer and then came back to the
crossing to await the other movement-to keep from hitting an automobile." "When that movement was madewhen they backed out on the main line-I was at this
crossing, protecting the crossing. In the backing up
movement I protected the crossing and then they cut out
the four cars. The engine came over the crossing; cut off
somewhere five or six cars south of the crossing. I was not
up north of the engine when they cut the cars out. I was
back up here. I rode the caboose car back. When they
came on down I stayed on the caboose car and Mr. Brady
stayed where the four or five cars were. He cut those out.
I didn't see him. I was checking on those cars. I had left
the caboose. I was not far from those twelve cars so
I left the caboose to check up on the cars. While I was
over there I heard the blast of the locomotive engine. I
didn't see how the cars were derailed-left the track-nor
did I see where Mr. Brady was at that time." Obviously
the conductor, in order to get near the twelve stored cars,

OGJ1OBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

hopped the caboose at the crossing as it backed up on the
main line.

The flagman testified that the conductor came

back and watched the crossing after the train first backed
into the storage track. The flagman also testified that on
leaving the caboose after the second train passed he, the
flagman, went south to check up on the twelve stored cars
and never touched either the switch or the derailer.
The undisputed testimony as to the significant movements of the decedent, Brady, as given by the engineer,
follows:
"When we backed into the pass or storage track the first
time and got in there to wait for No. 30 to go by, I saw Mr.
Brady close the switch and the derailer. Mr. Brady gave
me the signal to come back out. He set the derailer not to
derail and opened the switch for me to come out and I
came on out. Then I pulled out and back down south on
the northbound track beyond the crossing. Mr. Brady
was on the four cars and I saw him get off these four
cars. He rode back north on these four cars 'til he got
north of the switch. He got off the car and throwed the
switch and got back and signaled me back. From the time
I came out of the switch until I came back in there I never
seen anybody else in there, other than Mr. Brady."
With the record evidence as to the action of the crew in
this condition, it appears obvious that there is nothing
to show negligence by any of the other servants of the
carrier.
We now turn to the third instance of alleged negligence.
This is the existence to the knowledge of the carrier of a
rail, opposite the derailer, so worn on top and sides that
in the opinion of qualified experts it permitted the thrust
of the east wheels of the car, as they rose over the "wrong
end" of the derailer, to force the flange on the west wheels
over the defective rail and so to derail the cars, when no
such derailment would have occurred, "nine times out of

BRADY v. SOUTHERN RY. CO.
476

Opinion of the Court.

ten, if the best type" rail was in use. There is no evidence of the unsuitability of the rail for ordinary use.
Such evidence, we assume, would justify a finding for
petitioners, if the defective rail was the proximate cause
of the derailment and the backing of the train improperly
over the closed derailer a danger reasonably to be anticipated. As to the likelihood of cars passing over the wrong
end of derailers, one witness with ten years' experience as
a brakeman testified that he recalled three or four instances. Another, the Superintendent of the railroad with
22 years' experience said, "It happens very frequently.
I would say yes, I have seen it 25 to 50 times." The rule
as to when a directed verdict is proper, heretofore referred
to, is applicable to questions of proximate cause. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Toops, 281 U. S.351; St. LouisSan Francisco Ry. Co. v. Mills, 271 U. S.344, 348; New
York CentralR. Co. v. Ambrose, 280 U. S.486; Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. Tindall, 47 F. 2d 19; Texas Gulf Sulphur
Co. v. Portland Gas Light Co., 57 F. 2d 801. Cf. Story
Parchment Co. v. PatersonCo., 282 U. S.555, 566.
The Supreme Court of North Carolina was of the view
that striking a derailer from the unexpected direction
"was so unusual, so contrary to the purpose" of the derailer that provision to guard against such a happening
was beyond the requirement of due care. With this we
agree. Bare possibility is not sufficient. Milwaukee &
St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Kellogg, 94 U. S.469, at 475:
"But it is generally held, that, in order to warrant a finding
that negligence, or an act not amounting to wanton wrong,
is the proximate cause of an injury, it must appear that
the injury was the natural and probable consequence of the
negligence or wrongful act, and that it ought to have been
foreseen in the light of the attending circumstances."
Events too remote to require reasonable prevision need
not be anticipated. It was so held as to an intervening

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLAcK, J., disenting.

320 U. S

embargo after a delay in transit which was caused by
negligence. The Malcolm Baxter, 277 U. S. 323, 334. Cf.
Northern Ry. Co. v. Page, 274 U. S. 65, 74; St. Louis-San
FranciscoRy. Co. v. Mills, supra. Liability arises from
negligence not from injury under this Act. And that
negligence must be the cause of the injury. Tiller v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S. 54, 67. Here the
rail was sufficient for ordinary use, and the carrier was
not obliged to foresee and guard against misuse of the
derailer, even though the misuse occurred as often as
the evidence indicated. It was the wrongful use of the
derailer that immediately occasioned the harm. Decedent
had first closed and then opened the derailer on the first
movement. He signalled the train to back into the storage
track just before the fatal accident. Although this misuse
of the derailer was an act of negligence, it is mere speculation as to whether that negligence is chargeable to the
decedent or another. Without this unexpected occurrence, the adequacy of the rail vis-&-vis a properly used
derailer is unquestioned. It was entirely disconnected
from the earlier act of the carrier in placing the weak rail
in the track. The mere fact that with a sound rail the
accident might not have happened is not enough. The
carrier's negligence must be a link in an unbroken chain
of reasonably foreseeable events.'
Affrmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting:

Twelve North Carolina citizens who heard many witnesses and saw many exhibits found on their oaths that the
railroad's employees were negligent. The local trial judge
sustained their finding. Four members of this Court
agree with the local trial judge that the jury's conclusion
was reasonable. Nevertheless five members of the Court

' See e. g., The Squib Case, 2 W. BI. 892. Cf. 1 Cooley on Torte
(4th Ed., 1932) § 50, n. 25, and collection of caes.

BRADY v. SOUTHERN RY. CO.
476

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

purport to weigh all the evidence offered by both parties
to the suit, and hold the conclusion was unreasonable.
Truly, appellate review of jury verdicts by application of
a supposed norm of reasonableness gives rise to puzzling
results.'
Although I do not agree that the "uniform federal rule"
on directed verdicts announced by the Court correctly
states the law, I place my dissent on the ground that,
whatever rule be applied, petitioner sufficiently alleged
and proved at least two separate acts of negligence attrib-

utable to the respondent railroad but for which the decedent Brady would probably have escaped death. The
first was the act of one of respondent's trainmen in negli-

gently closing the derailer; the second, the act of respondent's maintenance crew in negligently keeping a defective rail opposite that derailer. Proof of either was
sufficient in itself to support a jury verdict against respondent under the terms of the Federal Employers' Liability Act
I For an enlightening exposition of the uncertainties generated by
excessive judicial use of the norm of reasonableness, see Jackson, Trial
Practice in Accident Litigation (1930), 15 Cornell Law Quarterly, 194
et seq. It was the writer's opinion that there was "a persistent,
insidious, and plausible tendency toward uncertainty in everything
that legal reasoning touches," and that this tendency was "easier to
illustrate than to describe." Had today's decision then been available,
it could well have been added to the several decisions which were used
as illustrations. Likewise the criticism which the writer directed at
these illustrative decisions is exactly applicable to what the Court
today, by applying a legal doctrine misnamed "proximate cause," has

done to the Federal Employers' Liability Act. For what it has done
is to choose "between two lines of public policy. It could not think in
the simple terms of the statutory command; it reverted to the complex
legal reasoning involving a combination of principles and depending
upon multiplied conditions which the statute tried to supersede."
2"Every common carrier by railroad while engaging in commerce
between any of the several States or Territories . . .shall be liable

in damages to any person suffering injury while he is employed by such

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

320 U.S.

Negligence in closing derailer. A contributing cause
to decedent's death was that the derailer was in a closed
position at the time the engineer backed the engine and
four cars into it. That the derailer should have been open
is not disputed. The evidence was sufficient to show that
the employee who negligently closed the derailer must
have been either the flagman, the conductor, or the decedent. The flagman expressly denied that he closed the
derailer, but the conductor made no such denial. Petitioner, although deprived of decedent's testimony, did produce evidence from which the jury could find that it was
not decedent who closed it. Testimony established that
decedent knew of the existence and location of the derailer,
that he was an experienced brakeman, and that he would
be aware of the danger of riding a freight car over a closed
derailer. From these facts the jury could find that decedent thought the derailer was open since he would not
likely have signalled the train over a closed derailer at the
peril of his own safety and protection. Cf. Atchison, T.
& S. F. Ry. Co. v. Toops, 281 U. S. 351, 356. A similar inference is not justified as regards the flagman and conductor for the evidence shows that at the time of the accident both were a half mile away and therefore were not
imperiled by the decedent's signalling back the train and
were not in a position to have prevented the signal.'
carrier in such commerce, or, in case of the death of such employee, to
his or her personal representative . . .for such injury or death resulting in whole or in part from the negligence of any of the officers, agents,
or employees of such carrier, or by reason of any defect or insufficiency,
due to its negligence, in its cars, engines, appliances, machinery, track,
roadbed .... or other equipment." 35 Stat. 65, as amended; 53
Stat. 1404; U. S. C., Title 45, § 51.
aUncontradicted testimony showed that both the flagman and the
conductor were under the duty to operate the derailer in switching
operations when the train was long. Here the train was four hundred
yards in length. The conductor admitted that he had operated the
derailer once during the switching operation, and that he had been

BRADY v. SOUTHERN RY. CO.
476

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

Having thus brought forth evidence that one of respondent's employees negligently closed the derailer and
that decedent was not that employee, petitioner had
proved a case for the jury. I cannot agree with the view
apparently adopted by the Court that the petitioner was
required to pin the negligence on a particular one of decedent's fellow employees. No such burden is imposed
by the Federal Act. It provides merely that a railroad
is liable "for . . . death resulting in whole or in part from
the negligence of any of the . . . employees." (Italics
supplied.) I
Negligence in keeping defective rail opposite derailer.
There was evidence to show that the rail of the pass track
opposite the derailer had been used for twenty-six years:
that the top of the rail was decayed, rusty, badly worn,
and thin; that with bare fingers metal slivers could easily
be picked from both sides of the rail; and that some of the
cross ties were old, not properly supported by ballast, and
sloped toward the defective rail. Petitioner then offered
expert evidence, contradicted by respondent's expert evidence, that the derailment would not have occurred but
for this defective rail. The Court declines to give any
effect whatever to all of this evidence on two stated
grounds: (1) That the rail was suitable for ordinary use
and the backing of the train improperly over the closed
derailer was not "a danger reasonably to have been anticipated"; (2) That the "weak rail" was not the "proximate
cause" of the death.
It is difficult to imagine how, except by sheer guessing,
or by drawing upon some undisclosed superior fund of
wisdom, the Court reaches the conclusion that respondent
in a place where he could have closed it before the engine and four
cars backed into it. Not one of the conductor's fellow employees
testified as to what the conductor was doing at the time when the
derailer must have been closed.
' See Note 2, supra.

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
BLAcK,

J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

need not have foreseen that trains would be backed over
the wrong end of closed derailers. The evidence of railroad men who had worked on railroads showed it was
foreseeable. Doubtless judges know more about formal
logic and legal principles than do brakemen, engineers,
and divisional superintendents. I am not so certain that
they know more about the danger of keeping a defective
rail immediately opposite a derailer. The Divisional
Superintendent of the Southern Railway Company, put
on the stand by the respondent, testified that trains backed
over closed derailers "very frequently." He himself had
seen it happen "on 25 to 50 occasions." And undisputed
evidence, including photographs, showed that respondent
had foreseen this likelihood to the extent that the top of
the derailer had a special groove to hold the flange of a
wheel as it passed over the back of the derailer. That a
train would ordinarily not be backed over a closed derailer
except for the personal negligence of the train crew is not
determinative of the issue of foreseeability. The standard
of reasonable conduct may require the defendant to protect the plaintiff against "that occasional negligence which
is one of the ordinary incidents of human life and therefore
And the mere fact that the
to be anticipated. . . .
negligence of the respondent in placing the weak rail in
the track occurred several years before the accident does
not establish that the subsequent injury was not foreseeable. The negligent conduct of respondent not only
consisted of "placing the weak rail in the track"; it also
consisted of keeping the "weak rail" there.
Nor is it easy to comprehend why the defective rail was
not the "proximate cause" of the injury. It was the last
"link in an unbroken chain of reasonably foreseeable
events" which cost the employee his life. Surely this rail
5Restatement of Torts § 302, Comment 1. See also Prosser on Torts

(1941) § 37, p. 243.

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER.
Syllabus.

476

was the "proximate cause" if those words be used to mean
an event which contributes to produce a result, which is
the meaning Congress intended when it made railroads
liable for the injury or death of an employee "due to" or
"resulting in whole or in part from" the railroad's negligence.' The record shows that two expert witnesses with
many years of railroad experience testified that the accident was caused by the defective rail. That one of these
witnesses on cross-examination stated the derailment
would not have occurred "nine times out of ten" if there
had been a sound rail hardly justifies a directed verdict
against petitioner. The fact of causation is no different
from any other fact and does not have to be proved with
absolute certainty; ninety per cent certainty should suffice
to make it an issue for the jury. That a sound rail would
have given the deceased nine chances out of ten to escape
death should be enough to give his family and the community the protection which the Act contemplates.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

and MR.

concur in this opinion.

DOBSON v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
NO. 44.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 8, 1943.-Decided December 20, 1943.
1. The Tax Court was not required by any statute, applicable regulation, or principle of law to treat as taxable income of the taxpayer a
recovery-in respect of a loss (on a sale of stock) deducted and
Note 2, atpra.
*Together with No. 45, Dobson v. Commissioncrof Internal Revenue,
No. 46, Estate of Collins v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and
No. 47, Harwick v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, also on writs
of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
O See

