CRESCENT EXPRESS LINES v. U. S.
Counsel for Parties.

CRESCENT EXPRESS LINES, INC. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 65.

Argued November 19, 1943.-Decided December 6, 1943.

1. Upon an application for a certificate authorizing operations as a
common carrier under the "grandfather clause" of the Motor Carrier
Act, the Interstate Commerce Commission issued a certificate more
limited than that indicated in its earlier "compliance order." Held
that the applicant was not deprived of any procedural right.
P. 404.
2. Under the "grandfather clause" of the Motor Carrier Act, the
Interstate Commerce Commission issued a common carrier certificate limited to "special operations," "non-scheduled door-to-door
service," "irregular routes," and "transportation of not more than
six persons in any one vehicle." Held authorized by the Act and
supported by the evidence. P. 405.
3. The limitation of the certificate to "transportation of not more
than six persons in any one vehicle" is not inconsistent with the
proviso of § 208 of the Motor Carrier Act forbidding restriction of
the right of a carrier to add equipment. Pp. 406, 409.
4. It was the intent of Congress to limit applicants under the "grandfather clause" to the type of equipment and service previously
offered. P. 410.
49 F. Supp. 92, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of a District Court of three judges

dismissing the complaint in a suit to set aside an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. George H. Rosen for appellant.
Mr. E. M. Reidy, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Messrs. Walter J. Cummings, Jr. and Daniel W.
Knowlton were on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce
Commission, appellee. The cause was submitted by Mr.
Henry P. Goldstein for the Mountain Transit Corporation, and by Mr. James F. X. O'Brien for the Hudson
Transit Lines, Inc., appellees.

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE REaD delivered the opinion of the Court.
This appeal brings here for review a judgment of a
district court I upholding an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, specifying limitations in a certificate proposed to be issued to appellant as a common
carrier.
The order bears the limitations upon its face, as
follows:
"The service to be rendered by applicant, as authorized by the order of which this is a part, in interstate or
foreign commerce as a common carrier by motor vehicle
of passengers and their baggage, in special operations, in
non-scheduled door-to-door service, limited to the transportation of not more than six passengers in any one vehicle, but not including the driver thereof, and not including
children under ten years of age who do not occupy a seat
or seats, during the season extending from June 1 to
October 1, inclusive, over irregular routes,"
between New York, N. Y., and points in Sullivan and
Ulster Counties, New York.
Following the enactment of the Motor Carrier Act of
1935,49 Stat. 543, 49 U. S. C. §§ 301 et seq., the appellant's
predecessor, a partnership, made timely application for a
certificate of public convenience and necessity under the
grandfather clause of the Act, 49 U. S. C. § 306 (a).
As appears from the application and the evidence, the
appellant's operations began in 1928 when Herman Trevax purchased a seven-passenger sedan and began carrying passengers to summer resorts in the mountains of New
York State. Between 1930 and 1933, three others purchased cars, joined Trevax in this business and opened
an office in New York. All this was prior to the critical
date of June 1, 1935, fixed by § 306 (a) to determine the
-28 U. S. C. §§ 47, 47a.

CRESCENT EXPRESS LINES v. U. S.
401

Opinion of the Court.

eligibility of applicants for certificates because of their
former (grandfather) operation.
The partners advertised "7 Passengers Cars Leaving
Daily to All Parts of the Mountains," "From Your Home
to Your Hotel." An affidavit stated that the partners
would "transport people to hotels located in all roads and
by-roads." The owners of several resort hotels stated that
the applicant had supplied cars for carrying guests between
their hotels and New York City. Former passengers described the convenience of the service and from their descriptions of the trips, it appears that the routes followed
were irregular and taken to fit the needs of each passenger.
The firm owned no buses of any kind.
On June 20, 1938, the Commission issued an order that
it would, on compliance with conditions not here pertinent,
grant a certificate authorizing Crescent to operate
''as a common carrier by motor vehicle of passengers and
their baggage, over the regular route, between fixed termini, and to and from intermediate and off-route points,
during the season extending from the 1st of June to the
1st of October, inclusive,"
between New York City and named towns in Sullivan and
Ulster Counties, New York, by way of New Jersey.
Protests were filed by several competing carriers, who
considered the compliance order too broad. On September
14, 1938, the parties were notified that the objections had
been deemed sufficient to warrant referring the case back
to the field force for further investigation. An informal
hearing, which the applicant did not attend, was held on
December 1, 1938.
The Commission then deferred determination of the
applicant's rights until the decision of a number of test
cases involving carriers performing a similar service. See
Sullivan County Highway Line Application, 21 M. C. C.
717, reconsidered, 30 M. C. C. 133; Irving Nudelman Ap-

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

plication, 22 M. C. C. 275, reconsidered, 28 M. C. C. 91. In
the meantime, the partners sold their business to the present appellant, which was substituted before the Commission by order of October 31, 1940. On September 2,
1941, the second order, providing for a more limited
certificate, quoted at the beginning of this opinion, was
issued.
(1) Appellant contends that the changes to which it
objects in the last order as compared with the earlier
were made without proper hearing or evidence. This
argument proceeds upon the assumption that the earlier
conclusions, as embodied in the 1938 order, endow appellant with something akin to a right to receive ultimately a certificate embodying the terms of the order.'
However, under § 306 the Commission was directed to
issue the certificates to applicants under the grandfather
clause without further proof of convenience or necessity
and without further proceedings. Its routine practice
was to refer the application to its field force for investigation.' The applicant appeared before this examiner
prior to the first order of the Commission. The compliance order was made upon the application, the supporting
affidavits and questionnaire. The mass of applications
forced this summary procedure.' The compliance order
gave opportunity to the applicant or other parties in
interest to protest its conclusions. The order remains
' These preliminary orders are spoken of as compliance orders.
Such a descriptive word is applicable because the orders direct the
issue of a certificate in accordance with the terms of the compliance
order, if no objection is filed and if the applicant complies with the
statutory and regulatory requirements of security for protection of
the public, rates, fares, charges and tariffs. 49 U. S. C.§§ 315-317.
a51st Annual Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
pp. 70-72.
' 51st Annual Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission, pp.
67, 68, 71; 55th Annual Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission, p. 110. See Gregg Cartage Co. v. United States, 316 U. S.74, 84.

CRESCENT EXPRESS LINES v. U.S.
401

Opinion of the Court.

under the control of the Commission. § 321 (b). This
application was treated in the foregoing manner.
Nothing inimical to the applicant on the protests of its
competitors developed from the hearing of December 1,
1938. Applicant protested in writing the order of September 2, 1941, filed a brief in support of its protest and
upon the refusal of Division 5 on March 17, 1942, to allow
the protest, renewed it before the entire Commission
where it was again denied July 13, 1942. At no time
has appellant offered to present additional evidence of
operations prior to June 1, 1935. It seems plain to us
that appellant has been afforded ample opportunity to
present its application with all supporting data. In view
of these facts, we do not find it necessary to resolve a
question as to whether or not appellant had actual notice
of the meeting of December 1, 1938.
(2) A further contention of appellant is that the record
"does not support the Commission in restricting the appellant to door-to-door service over irregular routes in nonscheduled operations," which were described as special
operations. As the district court's interpretation of the
order, that "door-to-door service" allowed the appellant
to transport passengers from their office or station in the
city as well as from the passengers' residences to the mountains and vice versa, is not challenged, that provision requires no further examination. Evidently from the advertisement quoted on p. 403, supra, both of these types
of business were sought.
The objection of appellant to "irregular routes" appears
to be that only special or charter operations entitle a motor
carrier to a certificate for irregular routes. § 307. Therefore if appellant's operations are scheduled operations between fixed termini, as appellant also contends, the order
ought to require a regular route. However, we think the
evidence is clear that prior to the critical date, June 1, 1935,
the operations of appellant were special and non-sched-

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S.

uled. Consequently the insertion of the privilege for
irregular routes was correct.
In answer to the inquiry as to whether special or charter operations were conducted prior to June 1, 1935, appellant answered, "no special operations." ' However, the
record shows a number of instances where passengers made
individual arrangements for their transportation to and
from the mountains. No schedule of arrival or departure
appears in the record. Instead of publishing arrivals and
departures, routes, stops, et cetera, the advertisements referred to daily trips and asked prospective customers to arrange for reservations. There was convincing evidence
that applicant's service prior to June 1, 1935, was special
and non-scheduled.
The evidence also is plain that the appellant did not
operate between fixed termini. A map was filed with the
application showing not a single destination in the mountains but numerous ones, which are described by appellant
in its application as follows:
"Applicant obtains its traffic in the Boroughs of Manhattan and Bronx, New York, and transports said traffic
to the Counties of Sullivan and Ulster, in the State of New
York. On return trips the applicant obtains its traffic in
and about Woodbourne, New York, more specifically
within a radius of twenty (20) miles from Woodbourne,
New York, and transports such traffic to the five boroughs
of New York City."
(3) Finally, appellant urges that it is beyond the power
of the Commission to limit its operations to "transportation of not more than six passengers in any one vehicle."
oThe Commission construes "charter" to refer to one contractor
taking over all the vehicle for a trip or trips and "special" to transportation services on week-end, holidays or other special occasions
when the carrier assembles the passengers and sells individual tickets.
Re Fordham Bue Corp., 29 M. C. C. 293, 297,41 F. Supp. 712.

CRESCENT EXPRESS LINES v. U. S.
401

Opinion of the Court.

The freedom is claimed to use buses or other multiple
passenger type of conveyance.
Section 208 of the Act, 49 Stat. 543, 552, 49 U. S. C.
§ 308, provides, with reference to grandfather clause
carriers,
"That no terms, conditions, or limitations shall restrict
the right of the carrier to add to his or its equipment and
facilities over the routes, between the termini, or within
the territory specified in the certificate, as the development of the business and the demands of the public shall
require." '
The scope of the Commission's authority under this
section depends upon the meaning given to the word,
"business." The appellant argues that it would be engaged in the same business if, in lieu of using sevenpassenger sedans, it undertook to haul larger numbers of
passengers in buses. But the special advantage to the
public inherent in the use of small vehicles operating as
occasion demands from door-to-door rather than between
terminals, sets off th, appellant's business from the service
provided by regular lines operating heavier equipment.
Irving Nudelman Application, 28 M. C. C. 91, 95-6.
The limitation to six passengers in one load is less restrictive than limitation to a particular type of vehicle
6The bill as drafted by the Federal Coordinator of Transportation
did not contain the proviso. S. Doc. No. 152, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., pp.
47 and 357. The addition was explained by Senator Wheeler, the
Chairman of the Interstate Commerce Committee, as follows: "Section
208 (a), page 26, as amended, permits the Commission to attach to
all certificates, whether granted under the grandfather clause or otherwise, reasonable terms, conditions, and limitations. In order to meet
criticisms that the effect of these provisions would be to check the
natural growth of operations if every increase in facilities required
authorization by the Commission, the committee has amended section
208 (a) . . ."

79 Cong. Rec. 5654.

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

since it allows the carrier to employ sedans, open cars,
station wagons, or any other suitable motor vehicle. 28
M. C. C. at 96. This allows flexibility in equipment while
continuing the same business. 22 M. C. C. 285. The line
between six-passenger and larger scale operation must be
drawn somewhere, and the Commission has fixed it where
the appellant conducted its business on June 1, 1935.
The Crescent partnership gave some indication that it
appreciated these special differences when in 1938 it proposed to change its name to Crescent Cadillac Service, "for
the sake of a better business name," thus emphasizing the
commercial significance of the sedan-type vehicle. It
appears from the application that Crescent owned no
buses; it operated nothing but sedans. To authorize the
appellant to change to the business of carrying passengers
by bus would alter the position in the transportation
system which it occupied on June 1, 1935. Noble v.
UnitedStates, 319 U. S. 88.'
If the holder of a grandfather certificate for this distinctive door-to-door service could develop his operations
so that they would be substantially those of a bus line, the
ability of the Commission to carry out its duties of regulation in the public interest would be seriously impaired.
Since § 308 requires the Commission to specify the service to be rendered, this could not be done without power
also to specify the general type of vehicle to be used. We
7The Noble case was a contract carrier application under 49 U. S. C.
§ 309. Under subsection (b) the Commission was required to specify
in the permit the "business of the contract carrier covered thereby."
We held that it was proper to limit the permit so that only shippers
who "operate food canneries or meat packing businesses," in particular
localities, might be served. This limitation corresponded to the type
of trade previously enjoyed by the carrier. The carrier contended for
a limitation only as to commodities. The proviso in § 309 (b),
applicable in the Noble case, covers substantially the same ground as
the proviso in § 308 dealt with in the present opinion.

CRESCENT EXPRESS LINES v. U. S.
401

Opinion of the Court.

agree with the Commission that the proviso is a prohibition against a limitation on the addition of more vehicles
of the authorized type, not a prohibition of the specification of the type. See Irving Nudelman Application, 28
M. C. C. 91.8
We are of the view that the power of the Commission
to limit the certificate as it proposes to do is in accord with
the purposes of the Motor Carrier Act. When Congress
provided for certificates to cover all carriers which were
already in operation, it did not throw open the motor
transportation system to more destructive competition
than that already existing. The right to certificates was
limited to those then in bona fide operation "over the
route or routes or within the territory for which application is made." 49 U. S. C. § 306.
The statute, we have said, contemplated "substantial
parity" between future and prior operations. Alton R.
Co. v. United States, 315 U. S. 15, 22. "As the Act is
remedial and to be construed liberally, the proviso defining
exemptions is to be read in harmony with the purpose of
the measure and held to extend only to carriers plainly
within its terms." McDonald v. Thompson, 305 U. S.
263, 266; Gregg Cartage Co. v. United States, 316 U. S.
74, 83. Consequently we held in United States v. Maher,
307 U. S. 148, that operations over irregular routes did
not provide the requisite continuity to support an application for regular service between fixed termini, even
when the highway between the fixed termini had been occasionally used for part of the distance in the irregular
route operations.
8 Numerous instances of limitation of type are given in the Nudelman opinion. The rule of the Nudelman case has been applied in

Rubin and Greenfield Application, 33 M. C. C. 383, and Greenberg
Application, 33 M. C.C. 725. See also Davidson Transfer &Storage
Co. Application, 32 M. C.C. 777.

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

320 U. S.

When the Commission requires the applicant under the
grandfather clause to limit its future operations to the
type of equipment and service previously offered, it acts
within its power and in accord with the purpose of Congress to maintain motor transportation facilities appropriate to the needs of the public. S. Rep. No. 482, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess. If there is a need for a different type of
service for this transportation, applications may be filed
under § 307.

Affirmed.

ESTATE OF ROGERS ET AL. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 66. Argued November 18, 19, 1943.-Decided December 6, 1943.
1. The value of property in respect of which a decedent exercised
by will a general power of appointment, held, under § 302 (f) of
the Revenue Act of 1926, includible in his gross estate for the purpose of the federal estate tax, without deduction for any property
appointed to persons who (under the will of the creator of the
power) would have come into enjoyment of other interests in the
property had the power not been exercised. P. 413.
2. Whether under § 302 (f) there has been a "passing" of property
by a testamentary exercise of a general power of appointment is a
federal question, once state law has made clear that the appointment had legal validity and brought into being new interests in
property. P. 414.
3. Helvering v. Grinnell, 294 U. S. 153, distinguished. P. 415.
135 F. 2d 35, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

320 U. S. 210, to review the reversal of a

decision of the Board of Tax Appeals which determined

that there was an overpayment of estate tax.
Mr. John W. Drye, Jr.for petitioners.

