356

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

MIDSTATE HORTICULTURAL CO., INC. v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 40.

Argued October 21, 22, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.

An action by a carrier to recover from a shipper the full amount of
transportation charges for shipments over its own and connecting
carriers' lines is subject to the three years' limitation of § 16 (3) (a)
of the Interstate Commerce Act; and the limitation cannot be extended by an express agreement between the carrier and shipper
entered into prior to the expiration of the period. P. 358.
21 Cal. 2d 243, 131 P. 2d 544, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

319 U. S. 735, to review the affirmance of

a judgment (124 P. 2d 902) for the carrier in an action
against a shipper to recover the amount of transportation
charges.
Mr. Theo. J. Roche, with whom Messrs. Hiram W.
Johnson, Theodore H. Roche, and James Farraherwere
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John Dickinson, with whom Messrs. William F.
Zearfaus,John B. Prizer,and FredericD. McKenney were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE, RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The case is here on certiorari to the Supreme Court of
California. Respondent sued to recover the full amount
of freight charges on twenty-one carloads of grapes
shipped by petitioner over its own and connecting carriers'
lines from California to stated destinations in New York
and New Jersey. The ultimate question is whether the
action was brought in time under § 16 (3) (a) of the Interstate Commerce Act. This provided:

MIDSTATE CO. v. PENNA. R. CO.
356

Opinion of the Court.

"All actions at law by carriers subject to this Act for
recovery of their charges, or any part thereof, shall be
begun within three years from the time the cause of
action accrues, and not after." I
In the application presented by this record, the question
turns on whether the section's limitation can be waived by
express agreement made before the period ends. The
agreement was made, at petitioner's request, three days
before the term expired for suing on account of the first
shipment. By its terms, in consideration of respondent's
forbearance to sue for a specified time, petitioner undertook not to "plead in any such suit the defense of any gen149 U. S. C. § 16 (3) (a), 43 Stat. 633. Other pertinent parts
of § 16, as it was in force when this cause of action arose, were as
follows:
"(3) (b) All complaints against carriers subject to this Act for the
recovery of damages not based cn overcharges shall be filed with the
commission within two years from the time the cause of action accrues,
and not after, subject to subdivision (d).
"(c) For recovery of overcharges action at law shall be begun or
complaint filed with the commission against carriers subject to this
Act within three years from the time the cause of action accrues,
and not after, subject to subdivision (d), except that if claim for the
overcharge has been presented in writing to the carrier within the

three-year period of limitation said period shall be extended to include
six months from the time notice in writing is given by the carrier
to the claimant of disallowance of the claim, or any part or parts
thereof, specified in the notice.
"(d) If on or before expiration of the two-year period of limitation in subdivision (b) or of the three-year period of limitation in
subdivision (c) a carrier subject to this Act begins action under subdivision (a) for recovery of charges in respect of the same transportation service, or, without beginning action, collects charges in respect of
that service, said period of limitation shall be extended to include
ninety days from the time such action is begun or such charges are
collected by the carrier."
As to the section's legislative history, including changes made since
this suit arose, see note 15 infra.

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

eral or special statute of limitations." 2 Two months later,
but within the extended time, petitioner finally declined
to pay and respondent began this action.'
In all stages of the litigation petitioner has contended
that the statute prohibits maintenance of the action, notwithstanding its agreement. Respondent has taken the
contrary view, as have the California District Court of
Appeal, one judge dissenting (124 P. 2d 902), and the
California Supreme Court (21 Cal. 2d 243, 131 P. 2d 544).
We think petitioner's position must be sustained. In
short this is that the agreement is invalid as being contrary to the intent and effect of the section and the Act.
In classical statement, the question has been posed as
whether the section operates, with the lapse of time, to
2After various recitals including one fixing the time within which the
deferred suit might be brought, the agreement provided:
"Now therefore in consideration of the forbearance of The Pennsylvania Railroad Company to bring such a suit against the Mid
State Horticultural Company, Inc. prior to October 28, 1935, the
said Mid State Horticultural Company, Inc. hereby agrees that if and
when The Pennsylvania Railroad Company may find it necessary to
bring such an action, it, the said Mid State Horticultural Company,
Inc., will not plead in any such suit the defense of any general or
special statute of limitations ... "
sThe following additional facts reveal more of the full character

of the controversy:
In accordance with petitioner's diversion orders, respondent delivered the shipments to Jerome Distributing Company in October
and November, 1932. Jerome gave respondent its checks to cover
the freight and received receipted freight bills, which it used to obtain a settlement of accounts with petitioner the latter says it would not

have made without them. The checks were dishonored on presentment for payment. Thereafter respondent sought without success

to collect from Jerome. It sued and obtained a judgment which it
could not satisty bccause of Jerome's insolvency.
The time fcr suing on account of the first shipment expired October
28, 1935. Seme time before this, respondent apparently threatened
to sue petitioner and the latter requested time to investigate. Respondent acceded, and on October 25, 1935,' petitioner executed the

agreement not to plead the statute.

MIDSTATE CO. v. PENNA. R. CO.
356

359

Opinion of the Court.

extinguish the right which is the foundation for the claim
or merely to bar the remedy for its enforcement;

4

and in

this case, consistently with the pattern, the debate has
moved back to whether the cause of action is one created
by the statute or one arising from the common law, with
the attributed consequence in the one case that the bar is
absolute and invariable by any act of the parties, in the
other that it may be waived by contract or otherwise."
Petitioner urges that the carrier's common law right to
collect transportation charges from the shipper, which was
strictly contractual, no longer exists, but has been replaced
with one prescribed by the Act. This, it says, now fixes
the character and dimensions of the carrier's recovery, including the time within which it may be had.

Respondent

however insists the Act has not superseded, but has merely
modified its common law contractual right; and in this
respect it asserts a distinction between cases, like this one,
in which the carrier seeks the full amount of the transportation charges and others in which the suit is for only
'The inquiry traditionally is cast in this mold regardless of whether

the ultimate question concerns such varied problems as the propriety
of invoking the lex fori rather than the lex loci, of waiving the defense

or estopping the defendant from asserting it, or of extending the period
of limitation after it has once lapsed. See, e. g., Story, Conflict of Laws
(8th ed.) § 582; Beale, Conflict of Laws (1935) §§ 604, 605; Goodrich,
Conflict of Laws (1927) §§ 85, 86; Ailes, Limitation of Actions and

the Conflict of Laws, 31 Mich. L. Rev. 474; Bement v. Grand Rapids
& IndianaRy. Co., 194 Mich. 64,160 N. W. 424; Gauthierv. Atchison,
T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 176 Wis. 245, 186 N. W. 619; McLearn v. Hill, 276
Mass. 519, 177 N. E. 617; Danzer & Co. v. Gulf & Ship Island R. Co.,

268 U. S. 633.
5

Characteristically the inquiry follows this course too, however diverse the ultimate questions, in actions under wrongful death statutes,
the Federal Employers' Liability Act, or directors' liability statutes,
whether the limitation is imposed in the act creating the liability or a
different one. See note 4 supra and cf. Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S. 451.
6 Compare, e. g., Bement v. Grand Rapids & Indiana Ry. Co., 194
Mich. 64, 160 N. W. 424, with McLearn v. Hill, 276 Mass. 519, 177

N. E. 617.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 194.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S

a part of themT or in which the shipper sues the carrier
to recover excess charges paid or damages for the charging
of unreasonable rates.8
We do not think the decision should turn on refinements
over whether the residuum of freedom to contract which
the Act leaves to the parties or the quantum of restriction
it imposes I constitutes the gist of the action. Origin of
the right is not per se conclusive whether the limitation
of time "extinguishes" it or "merely bars the remedy"
with the accepted alternative consequences respecting
waiver. Source is merely evidentiary, with other factors,
of legislative intent whether the right shall be enforceable
in any event after the prescribed time, which is the ultimate question."0 The test of creation may aid when origin
is clear.1 It is not conclusive when the source is hybrid,
as is true of the carrier's contract, which has become a
complex or resultant of the former freedom of contract
and statutory restrictions. It does not follow from the
survival of the common law elements, as respondent maintains, that Congress did not intend the limitation to be
absolute. And this seems impliedly conceded when the
debate shifts, as it has, to whether the policy of interstate
commerce legislation contemplates the one result or the
other. This is the controlling question. Respecting it
I E. g., Wisconsin Bridge & Iron Co. v. Illinois Terminal Co., 88 F.
2d 459 (C. C. A.); cf. Button v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co.. 1 F. 2d
709 (C. C. A.); Galveston, H. & S. A. RV. Co. v. Webster Co., 27 F.
2d 765 (D. C.).
8 E. g., A. J. PhillipsCo. v. Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co., 236 U. 8.
662; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Wolf, 261 U. S. 133.
' Cf. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Central Iron & Coal Co., 265
U. S. 59; Alton R. Co. v. Gillarde, 379 Ill. 308; PennsylvaniaR. Co. v.
Lord & Spencer, 295 Mass. 179, 3 N. E. 2d 213; Galveston, H. & S. A.
Ry. Co. v. Webster Co., 27 F. 2d 765 (D. C.).
10Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S. 451, 454; see also Gregory v. Southern
Pacific Co., 157 F. 113 (C. C. D. Ore.); Osborne v. Grand Trunk Ry.
Co., 87 Vt. 104, 88 A. 512.
11Ibid.

MIDSTATE CO. ty. PENNA. R. CO.
356

Opinion of the Court.

the consistent patterns of legislation followed in the Act
and of judicial decision in treating problems of time limitation and related questions arising under it furnish the
more persuasive indicia of Congress' intention.
Section 16 is an integral part of the Interstate Commerce Act and of the comprehensive scheme of regulation
it imposes. The Act is affected throughout its provisions,
with the object not merely of regulating the relations of
carrier and shipper inter se, but of securing the general
public interest in adequate, nondiscriminatory transportation at reasonable rates. 2 Accordingly, in respect to
many matters concerning which variation in accordance
with the exigencies of particular circumstances might be
permissible, if only the parties' private interests or equities
were involved, rigid adherence to the statutory scheme
and standards is required. This "obviously may work
hardship in some cases, but it embodies the policy which
has been adopted by Congress in the regulation of interstate commerce in order to prevent unjust discrimination." Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S.
94,97.
With setting in such a statute, § 16 expresses the specific
policy of the Act with reference to the assertion of stale
claims. On the section's face, this policy is one of uniformity and equality of treatment, as between carrier and
shipper. The section contains not one, but several limitations. All are of short duration.'
They apply to various kinds of relief allowed in relation to matters governed
by the Act. These include proceedings before the Commission and in the courts, by both shippers and carriers.
The several provisions are cast in uniform terms."' Not
12 Cf. Pittsburgh, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577;
Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mazue//, 237 U. S.94; Arkansas Fertilizer Co. v. United States, 193 F. 667 (Commerce Court).
1
3 The uniform period is now two years. Cf. note 15 infra.
" All follow the formula "within years, but not after." Re-

spondent rightly says the formula itself, particularly as it includes

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

all were brought into the section at the same time. But
the legislative history shows a constant tendency toward
making them uniform in time and the purpose of placing
the carrier and the shipper on equal terms in this respect.15
Upon the face of the section nothing suggests that the
limitations are to be given other than identical effects, except as the language specifies variations. In particular,
contrary to respondent's contention, there is no indication
"and not after," is not conclusive, since it has received different constructions in respect to the present issue. Thus, the phrase appeared
in the earliest English general statutes of limitations, cf. 7 Chitty's
English Statutes (6th ed.) 618-619, 619-625; and is found frequently
in state statutes without having the effect to outlaw waivers. Cf.
Bewley v. Power, Hayes & Jones Exch. Rep. 368 (1833); Crane v.
Abel, 67 Mich. 242, 34 N. W. 658; In re Estate of King. 94 Mich. 411,
54 N. W. 178; Dickson v. Slater Steel Rig Co., 138 Okla. 238, 280 P. 817.
On the other hand, special statutes employing the phrase have received
opposing constructions. Cf. the state wrongful death statute involved in The Harrisburg,119 U. S. 199. See generally 132 A. L. R.
292 et seq.
1
5For the succession of enactments by which § 16 (3) assumed its
present form see 34 Stat. 590; 41 Stat. 491-2; 43 Stat. 633; 54 Stat.
912-13; cf. 49 U. S. C. A. § 16 (3), Historical Note. Briefly, § 16 (3)
(a) was enacted first as part of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat.
491-2. Previously state statutes supplied limitations upon carriers'
suits for their chaiges, elf. Button v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 1 F.
2d 709, and upon certain shippers' suits against carriers (not based
upon an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission), cf. Louisiana & Western R. Co. v. Gardiner,273 U. S. 280. Concurrently from
1906 the Hepburn Act (34 Stat. 590) supplied limitations upon shippers' assertion of claims for damages before the Interstate Commerce
Commission and in suits to enforce its orders. Section 16 (3) assumed substantially its present form in the Act of June 7, 1924, 43
Stat. 633; althcugh after this acticn was brought the Transportation
Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 912-13, rcduced the period for carriers' suits from
three to two years, to make it conform finally w;th the time allowed
shippers for testing the rep-onableness of the cairier's rate, etc. From
1920 to 1940 this conormity had been ,chieved by extending the time
for shippers' proceedings where the carrier in due season began suit to
recover its charges. Cf. 43. Stat. 633, § 16 (3) (d).

MIDSTATE CO. v. PENNA. R. CO.
356

Opinion of the Court.

that, in applying the section, the carrier shall be given an
advantage not allowed to the shipper or one, in some instances, when the carrier is plaintiff, which it cannot enjoy
in: others. Rather, the section's terms, particularly in subdivision (a)," their uniformity in all the limitations, its
legislative history, and its setting in a statute designed
certainly as much for the shipper's as for the carrier's benefit and in so many respects to avoid discriminatory practices and effects, all point to uniform construction of the
limitations imposed. And this, we think, is the effect of
the decisions which have construed them or predecessor
provisions."
With a single exception, PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Susque-

hanna Collieries Co., 23 F. 2d 499 (D. C.), the federal
courts have not decided squarely whether an agreement
such as is presented here is valid. In that suit to recover
demurrage charges the court sustained and gave effect to
the contract. But we think this is contrary to the general
course of decision which has construed the section and
predecessor limitations.
With the one exception, the decisions have fixed the
pattern, in respect to a variety of issues relating to application of the limitations, that lapse of the statutory period
"not only bars the remedy but destroys the liability."
That is true of this Court's decisions "'and those of the
inferior federal courts.' It is true of suits by shippers
16 The subdivision applies a single limitation to "all actions at law
by carriers," whether "for recovery of their charges, or any part thereof." (Emphasis added.) Cf. note 1 supra.
17Cf. note 15 supra.

18 Cf., e. g., A. J. Phillips Co. v. Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co., 236
U. S. 662; United States ex rel. Louisville Cement Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Comm'n, 246 U. S. 638; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v.
Wolf, 261 U. S. 133; William Danzer & Co. v. Gulf & Ship Island R.
Co., 268 U. S. 633.
10 Cf. Wisconsin Bridge & Iron Co. v. Illinois Terminal Co., 88 F
2d 459 (C. C. A.); Button v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 1 F. 2d 709

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

against carriers and of suits by carriers against shippers.20
It is true with respect to every limitation imposed by § 16,
unless that of subdivision (a) in favor of the carrier is to
be excepted when its suit is for the full amount of its
charges, though not when it is for only part of them. 1
The purport of the decisions is that Congress intended,
when the period has run, to put an end to the substantive
claim and the corresponding liability. The cause of action, the very foundation for relief, is extinguished. Thus,
in A. J. Phillips Co. v. Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co., this
Court held the objection to the timeliness of the shipper's
suit properly was raised by demurrer, and said that "the
lapse of time . . . destroys the liability . . . whether

complaint is filed with the Commission or suit is brought
in a court of competent jurisdiction." 236 U. S. 662, 667.
And it assigned as a reason for this view "the requirements
of uniformity which, in this as in so many other instances
must be borne in mind in construing the Commerce Act,"
including the carrier's obligations to adhere to the legal
rate, make only lawful refunds, and refrain from discriminating among shippers "by silence or by express waiver, to
preserve to the Phillips Company a right of action which
the statute required should be asserted within a fixed
period." Ibid. In United States ex rel. Louisville Cement Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 246 U. S. 638,
the conception of the Phillips case was applied to proceedings before the Commission, as the Phillips opinion had
forecast. The Court held that the limitation goes to the
Commission's jurisdiction, so that on the one hand it has
no power to act when the time has expired, on the other
mandamus will lie to compel exercise of the jurisdiction
(C. C. A.); PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. CarolinaPortlandCement Co., 16 F.
2d 760 (C. C. A.).
20 Cf. notes 18, 19 supra.
21 Cf. note 7 supra.

MIDSTATE CO. v. PENNA. R. CO.
356

Opinion of the Court.

when the period has not passed.2 The other decisions cited
above give effect to this pattern in various applications.
Respondent attempts to avoid the conclusion to which
the pattern points by urging that when the choice of extending the period is the carrier's rather than the shipper's,
opportunities for discrimination disappear; and the policy
otherwise embedded in § 16 does not require enforcement
of its terms. Rather, it says, to enforce them would violate the very policy upon which the Phillips case based
the carrier's immunity to suit after the period. And further to support this view, especially as it requires distinguishing results favorable to the carrier from those adverse
to it, it is said the legislative history of the incorporation
into §16 of the limitation upon the carrier's recovery of its
full charges requires it to be given a different effect from
that given all other limitations created by the section.
The argument is ingenious, but not convincing. In the
absence of explicit direction, it cannot be assumed or inferred that Congress intended to adopt one policy for the
carrier and another for the shipper, to give the former an
absolute shield, the latter one penetrable by all the devices
and occasions which interrupt or extend the period of an
ordinary general statute of limitations. Still less can it be
implied that Congress intended the identical provision,
subdivision (a), to work one way when the carrier sues
only for part, another when it sues for the whole of its
charges. That it is prohibited to discriminate among
shippers, in applying the section's limitations, does not
mean that in adopting them Congress intended to discriminate against all shippers in favor of the carrier. Nor
does it mean the carrier may discriminate among shippers
when it sues for all, but may not do so when it sues for only
part of its charges. The fallacy is in assuming, first, that
the section reflects only the Act's general policy against
2 The latter was the particular result in the case, since the court
found the period had not run prior to beginning of the proceeding.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

discrimination in respect to rates, rebates, etc.; and, second, that this would be made effective by treating the limitation as absolute to cut off the carrier's liability, but
variable when the shipper's is involved. Neither assumption is true.
That the section does involve the statute's general policy
against discrimination is clear from the opinion in the
Phillipscase and others cited. But this is true only so far
as that policy is consistent with the particular policy laid
down by the section, naxmely, that of strictly limiting the
time within which claims may be asserted, as likewise appears from the decisions. In the Phillips case, there was
no apparent clash between the two policies. Nor in this
case is there more than an apparent one.
It is true the effect of holding the period invariable will
be, when it has run, to relieve the shipper entirely of paying; and thus the carrier, by agreeing not to sue until later,
may in effect allow the shipper a preference. But it has
this within its control. And the same effect may follow
when the amount unpaid is only a part of the total charge.
It may follow in any case, whether the suit is for all or
merely part, since the carrier, without agreement, may
neglect or fail to sue and thus in effect allow the preference. Likewise, when the shipper sues, the carrier may
suffer judgment by confession or default and so, in effect,
accomplish the "preference," if the amount claimed is
more than is rightfully due the shipper. When it is that
and no more, allowing the carrier to escape by pleading the
bar of the statute has the effect of permitting it to inflict
a discrimination, as respondent concedes the statute
requires.
The concession destroys its case. The consequences for
discrimination are the same, whether the carrier or the

MIDSTATE CO. v. PENNA. R. CO.
356

Opinion of the Court.

shipper sues, since in the one case it may create a preference by foregoing suit, in the other by failing to defend.
And it is as much an answer, in the one case as in the other,
that the carrier's failure to assert its rights would violate
its duty to collect. 3 That duty, and the results of failure
to discharge it, may be the same, regardless of whether the
carrier sues or defends, depending upon whether the
amount claimed is rightfully due.
The paramount policy of § 16 is to secure promptness in
collection. That policy would not be promoted by construing the period as variable when it works to bar the
carrier's claim but invariable when the shipper sues. Nor
does a legislative history which discloses a purpose to put
carrier and shipper in equal position with reference to limitations of time sustain an inference that they are to be
given effects favorable only to the carrier.
We are not unihindful of the hardship to respondent in
the special circumstances, though petitioner asserts it
would suffer equal hardship if the decision were the other
way. Nor do we ignore the strong equitable considerations which, in relation to other types of legislation not so
permeated with provisions and policies for protecting the
general public interest, might move against denying effect
to such an agreement. But this case boils down to an old
adage about sauce and geese, which need not be given
citation.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MCf. A. J. Phillips Co. v. Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co., 236 U. S.
662, 667-668; Arkansas Fertilizer Co. v. United States, 193 F. 667,
671 (Commerce Court).

