CARTER v. KUBLER.
238

Syllabus.

of duty, and all the attendant circumstances." Alabama
Water Service Co. v. Harris,supra, 519. In the Harris
case the court further emphasized the wide scope of allowable punitive damages by saying that a jury's award is
not to be disturbed if, "allowing all presumptions in favor
of" it, the court is not "clearly convinced it is so excessive
as to demand the interposition of this court." Ibid. Considering these general principles of Alabama law, we are
unable to say that-under petitioner's complaint evidence
could not be introduced at a trial justifying a jury verdict
for actual and punitive damages exceeding $3,000. Nor
can this controversy as to jurisdictional amount be decided
on the assumption "that a verdict, if rendered for that
amount, would be excessive and set aside for that reasona statement which could not, at any rate, be judicially
made before such a verdict was in fact rendered." Barry
v. Edmunds, supra, 565.
The judgment of dismissal is reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings.
Reversed.
CARTER v. KUBLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 18. Argued October 13, 1943.-Decided November 8, 1943.
The conciliation commissioner, making a reappraisal of the debtor's
property pursuant to § 75 (s) (3) of the Bankruptcy Act, erred
in basing the valuation partly on evidence obtained by his personal
investigation without the knowledge or consent of the parties;
but, in the circumstances of this case, the error was cured upon
review in the District Court, which reexamined all the competent
evidence introduced at the hearing before the commissioner and
thereupon modified the latter's valuation. P. 246.
131 F. 2d 222, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 753, to review the affirmance, upon
appeal by the debtor, of a judgment modifying an order of
a conciliation commissioner.

Mr. Elmer McClain for petitioner.
Mr. T. W. Kimber for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The narrow issues presented by this case are whether
it was error under § 75 (s) (3) of the Bankruptcy Act I for
a conciliation commissioner to fix a valuation partly on the
basis of his personal investigation and, if so, whether that
error was cured on review by the District Court.
Petitioner, the farmer debtor, was adjudicated a bankrupt under § 75 (s). After a $5,800 appraisal of his farm
had been approved by a conciliation commissioner, petitioner was permitted to retain possession of the property
for the statutory three-year period. At the end of that
time, he petitioned the District Court for a reappraisal
of the property for redemption purposes, pursuant to § 75
(s) (3).2 The judge then referred the matter to the same
conciliation commissioner who had approved the original
appraisal and directed that he "have a reappraisement of
the farm made and that the secured creditor be afforded
an opportunity to present evidence as to the present fair
value of such farm and that the conciliation commissioner
1 11 U. S.

C. § 203 (s) (3).

pertinent portion of § 75 (a) (3) provides that "upon request
of any secured or unsecured creditor, or upon request of the debtor,
the court shall cause a reappraisal of the debtor's property, or in its
discretion set a date for hearing, and after such hearing, fix the value
2 The

of the property, in accordance with the evidence submitted, and the
debtor shall then pay the value so arrived at into court . . . and
thereupon the court shall, by an order, turn over full possession and title
of said property, free and clear of encumbrances to the debtor."

CARTER v. KUBLER.
243

Opinion of the Court.

determine the correct appraised value and fix a reasonable time within which the debtor shall redeem the farm
from the mortgage lien, failing in which a public sale is
ordered."
Pursuant to this order, the conciliation commissioner
held hearings to determine the fair and reasonable value
of the farm in question. Respondent, the secured mortgage holder, called five witnesses whose estimates of the
value of the farm ranged from approximately $29,000 to
$33,000. The values given by petitioner's five witnesses
were from $6,500 to $12,000. All but one of these witnesses were subjected to cross-examination. Subsequently, the conciliation commissioner made the following finding: "After hearing the testimony given by the
several witnesses, and studying the briefs furnished by the
defendant and the plaintiff, and upon a personal investigation by the conciliation commissioner of the value of
said farm, I hereby fix the value of said farm at $150 per
acre [approximately $25,000 for the entire farm]." The
commissioner did not indicate when or under what circumstances his personal investigation had been made.
Petitioner then requested the District Court to review
and reverse the commissioner's order allowing him to redeem the farm on payment of $25,000. Included in the
specification of errors was the claim that the valuation was
erroneous and void "because made and fixed by the conciliation commissioner upon a personal investigation . .. made outside of and independent of the
hearings ... at which personal investigation neither
the petitioner herein nor his counsel was afforded opportunity to offer counter evidence or to cross-examine
concerning the evidence adduced by said personal investigation." The District Court, after reviewing the entire
testimony introduced at the hearing before the commissioner and after reading the briefs submitted by the parties, concluded that the commissioner's estimate was too

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

high and reduced the valuation to $20,000. It does not
appear that the District Court made any use or mention
of the commissioner's personal investigation in arriving at
this valuation or that any evidence was utilized other
than that properly introduced at the hearing before the
commissioner.
Petitioner renewed his objection to the personal investigation in his appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The
latter, however, merely stated that there was no abuse
of judicial discretion by the District Court in fixing the
valuation at $20,000 and that there was no reversible error.
131 F. 2d 222. We granted certiorari, limited to the question of the propriety of the commissioner's personal investigation, because of an asserted conflict with Moser v.
Mortgage Guarantee Co., 123 F. 2d 423.
We are of the opinion that the conciliation commissioner erred in fixing the value of the property partly upon
his personal investigation, but that, under the circumstances of this case, such error was cured inasmuch as the
District Court reexamined all the evidence properly introduced at the hearing before the commissioner and
thereupon modified the latter's valuation.
Section 75 (s) (3) makes clear the impropriety of the
conciliation commissioner's action. If the District Court
conducts a hearing to determine the value of the property
or if the conciliation commissioner is authorized to hold
such a hearing, the statute provides that the valuation
shall be fixed "in accordance with the evidence submitted"
at the hearing. The statute confers no authority on
either the judge or the commissioner to act personally as
an appraiser or to conduct his own factual inquiry absent
the knowledge and consent of the parties to the hearing.
The valuation must thus be determined solely from
the evidence adduced at the hearing and the use of evidence obtained in any other manner is improper. Moser
v. Mortgage Guarantee Co., supra; Equitable Life As-

CARTER v. KUBLER.
243

Opinion of the Court.

surance Society v. Deutschle, 132 F. 2d 525. And the
parties are entitled to a valuation based on a strict adherence to this orderly procedure. John Hancock Mutual
Life Ins. Co. v. Bartels, 308 U. S. 180; Borchard v. California Bank, 310 U. S. 311.
Moreover, once a hearing has been ordered, § 75 (s) (3)
necessarily guarantees that it shall be a fair and full hearing. The basic elements of such a hearing include the
right of each party to be apprized of all the evidence upon
which a factual adjudication rests, plus the right to examine, explain or rebut all such evidence. Tested by that
standard, the personal investigation by the conciliation
commissioner cannot be justified. It was apparently
made without petitioner's knowledge or consent and no
opportunity was accorded petitioner to examine or rebut
the evidence obtained in the course of such investigation.
The use of this evidence was therefore inconsistent with
the right to a fair and full hearing. Moser v. Mortgage
GuaranteeCo., supra,Wigmore on Evidence, § 1169 (3rd
edition) .'
The irregularity of the commissioner's personal investigation, however, appears to have been cured by the
District Court's review and modification of the commissioner's valuation. Order 47 of the General Orders in
Bankruptcy,' which is applicable to the review of the
commissioner's valuation,5 provides in effect that the
commissioner's findings of fact shall be accepted by the
3

See also Atlantic & Birmingham Ry. Co. v. Cordele, 125 Ga. 373,
54 S. E. 155; Ralph v. Southern Ry. Co., 160 S. C. 229, 158 S. E. 409;
Denver Omnibus & Cab Co. v. J. R. Ward Auction Co., 47 Colo.
446, 107 P. 1073; Elston v. McGlauflin, 79 Wash. 355, 140 P. 396;
Anderson v. Leblang, 125 Misc. 820, 211 N. Y. S. 613.
' 11 U. S. C. following § 53.
6Sec. 75 (s) (4) of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. § 203 (s) (4);
Order 50 (11) of the General Orders in Bankruptcy, 11 U. S. C. following § 53; Equitable Life Assurance Society v. Carmody, 131 F. 2d 318,
322; Rait v. Federal Land Bank, 135 F. 2d 447, 450.

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320U. 8.

judge "unless clearly erroneous." Order 47 further provides that "the judge after hearing may adopt the report
or may modify it or may reject it in whole or in part or
may receive further evidence or may recommit it with
instructions."
Had the District Court done no more than summarily
affirm and adopt without change the commissioner's finding of a $25,000 value, the defect upon which that finding
rested would not have been cured and petitioner would
have been deprived of the fair hearing to which he was
entitled. Moser v. Mortgage GuaranteeCo., supra. But
here the commissioner's error was brought to the judge's
attention by petitioner and we cannot assume that the
judge was unmindful of this objection. The District
Court disregarded the commissioner's $25,000 valuation,
heard argument by counsel, made an independent and
complete review of the conflicting evidence introduced at
the hearing before the commissioner, and fixed the valuation at $20,000 "under the evidence before me." All of
this was authorized by Order 47 inasmuch as the commissioner's personal investigation made his finding as to value
"clearly erroneous."
It is thus apparent that the error of which petitioner
complains was cured by the District Court. Since none
of the evidence procured by the commissioner through his
personal investigation was included in the record certified
to the judge, it cannot be said that the judge's $20,000
valuation was in any way grounded on such improper
evidence. Petitioner had full opportunity to examine
and rebut all the evidence utilized by the judge in fixing
this valuation.
This procedure, furthermore, gave petitioner the full
and fair hearing guaranteed to him by Congress. If the
conciliation commissioner is properly authorized to conduct a reappraisal hearing and commits an error which
can be and is corrected by the District Court on appeal,

CONSUMERS CO. v. KABUSHIKI KAISHA. 249
Statement of the Case.

243

the hearing contemplated by § 75 (s) (3) has been had.
A party is not entitled to a trial de novo as of right on the
review in the District Court, Equitable Life Assurance
Society v. Carmody, 131 F. 2d 318, and none was requested
by petitioner. Nor is there any requirement that the
judge must reverse and remand the case to the commissioner for further hearings or for his considered judgment
based solely on the competent evidence. To so hold
would render nugatory the discretionary power given the
judge by Order 47 to receive further evidence himself or
to modify or reject, in whole or in part, the commissioner's
findings on appeal. In addition, it would make mandatory what is at most a discretionary power of the judge
under § 75 (s) (3) to authorize a hearing before the
commissioner.
The judgment below is accordingly
Affirmed.
CONSUMERS IMPORT CO. ET A. v. KABUSHIKI
KAISHA KAWASAKI ZOSENJO ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 32.

FOR THE

Argued October 21, 1943.-Decided November 8, 1943.

1. For damage to cargo by fire not caused by the "design or neglect"
of the shipowner, the Fire Statute extinguishes claims against the

vessel as well as claims against the owner. P. 253.
2. That the contracts of affreightment were signed "for master" does
not require a different result. P. 252.
3. There was in this case no waiver of immunity under the Fire
Statute. P. 254.
4. The Etna Maru,33 F. 2d 232, to the extent that it conflicts herewith,
is disapproved. P. 256.
133 F. 2d 781, affirmed.

CERTIORAIM, 319 U. S. 734, to review the affirmance of a
decree (39 F. Supp. 349) which, in a suit by cargo claim-

