OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U.S.

III.
The effect of the decision of this Court today is to strike
down as unconstitutional an important provision of the
workmen's compensation laws of at least eleven states.
For more than half a century the power of the states to
regulate their domestic economic affairs has been narrowly
restricted by judicial interpretation of the federal Constitution. The chief weapon in the arsenal of restriction,
only recently falling into disrepute because of overuse.
is the due process clause. The full faith and credit clause,
used today to serve the same purposes, is no better suited
to control the freedom of the states. The practical question now before us can be decided by the states in many
ways and most of the states which have expressed themselves seem ready to dispose of the problem as has Louisiana. Our notions of policy should not permit the Constitution to become a barrier to free experimentation by the
states with the problems of workmen's compensation.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur in this opinion.

and MR.

ATLANTIC REFINING CO. v. MOLLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 56.

Argued December 7, 1943.-Decided December 20, 1943.

Section 15 of an Act of March 3, 1899, makes it unlawful "to tie up or
anchor vessels or other craft in navigable channels in such a manner
as to prevent or obstruct the passage of other vessels or craft."
Held:
1. An exception to § 15 is recognized where literal compliance with
its terms would create a danger to navigation which a departure from
its terms could avoid or lessen. P. 466.

ATLANTIC REFINING CO. v. MOLLER.
462

463

Opinion of the Court.

2. The circumstances in which a vessel in this case was twice
anchored in a navigable channel during a fog warranted an exception
to § 15 in each instance. P. 467.
134 F. 2d 1000, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 319 U. S. 737, to review the reversal of a de-

cree which, in a suit in admiralty arising out of a collision,
awarded damages to the libellant and dismissed a crosslibel, 40 F. Supp. 641. The reviewing court found statutory negligence on the part of the libellant's vessel, and
ordered a division of the damages.
Mr. Otto Wolff, Jr. for petitioner.
Mr. J. Harry La Brum, with whom Mr. Leonard J. Matteson was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
While lying at anchor in the channel of the Delaware
River the tanker "Bohemian Club," owned by the petitioner, was struck by the motor vessel "Laura Maersk,"
owned by the respondent. Damage to each vessel resulted, for which the respective owners sought recovery in
this admiralty proceeding. The District Court found that
the collision was caused by the excessive rate of speed at
which the "Laura Maersk" was proceeding down the channel, rendered judgment for the full amount of damages
inflicted upon the "Bohemian Club," and dismissed the
cross-libel of respondent against the "Bohemian Club."
40 F. Supp. 641. The Circuit Court of Appeals approved
the District Court's finding that the "Laura Maersk" was
negligent but concluded, with one judge dissenting, that
the "Bohemian Club" was also negligent, and reversed
with directions that the rule of divided damages be
applied. 134 F. 2d 1000. See The Schooner Catharinev.
Dickinson, 17 How. 170, 177-178; The North Star, 106
U. S. 17, 20. The Circuit Court's conclusion that the

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

"Bohemian Club" was negligent rested upon its interpretation of the following portion of § 15 of an Act
of March 3, 1899: "It shall not be lawful to tie up
or anchor vessels or other craft in navigable channels
in such a manner as to prevent or obstruct the passage
of other vessels or craft." ' We granted certiorari because
of an alleged conflict among the circuits as to the proper
interpretation to be given this Act.2
The findings of both courts show that the accident happened under the following circumstances. At about 7:30
A. M. the "Bohemian Club," 435 feet long, was proceeding northward on the east side of the channel of the Delaware River when she encountered a dense fog. Unable
to move without endangering herself and other vessels,
and unable to obtain anchorage within a distance of five
miles, she dropped anchor along her course in the channel. At this point the channel was approximately 1,200
feet wide, and northbound vessels were required to use
the 400 feet adjacent to the channel's eastern boundary.
Under the circumstances, the safest course of conduct for
the "Bohemian Club" was to anchor where it did. About
10 A. M. the fog lifted slightly and the Master discovered
a large steel buoy about 150 feet to the northeast of the
vessel. The tide was then ebb, and was flowing away
from the buoy, but was due to change to flood shortly.
Fearing that this change might cause the vessel to foul
the buoy, the Master had the anchor lifted, the engines
put slow ahead, and the rudder put hard right. In less
1 30 Stat. 1152; U. S. C. Title 33, § 409. The Act imposes penal
sanctions for violations of § 15. See §§ 16-18. However this section
has been interpreted as establishing a standard of care applicable in
ordinary negligence actions for damages. See Otto Marmet Coal Co. v.

Fieger-Austin Dredging Co., 259 F. 435; The William C. Atwater, 110
F. 2d 644; The Southern Cross, 93 F. 2d 297.

2 See, for example, The City of Norfolk, 266 F. 641; The A. P. Skidmore, 115 F. 791; The Socony No. 9,74 F. 2d 233.

ATLANTIC REFINING CO. v. MOLLER.
462

465

Opinion of the Court.

than five minutes, however, the fog again dropped, and the
vessel was again anchored. This time, apparently because she had been carried by the tide, the "Bohemian
Club" lay somewhat south and west of her original position so that she partially obstructed the western part of
the channel used by southbound vessels. There was,
however, ample room in the western part of the channel
for a southbound vessel to pass the "Bohemian Club";
in fact, since the western part of the channel was twice as
wide as the eastern part, there was more space for southbound vessels to pass than there had been for northbound
vessels to pass when the "Bohemian Club" was anchored
in the eastern part of the channel. There are no findings
that the Master of the "Bohemian Club" had any reason
to believe that his vessel constituted a more dangerous obstruction to river traffic in general 8 in her second position
than in her original position. In compliance with the statutory requirement imposed on vessels which are compelled to anchor in the fog, the "Bohemian Club's" fog bell
was rung rapidly for five seconds at minute intervals;'
and, in addition, lookouts were stationed on the bridge
and forecastle. Despite these precautions the "Laura
Maersk," southbound at what both courts agreed was an
unreasonable speed, crashed into the "Bohemian Club"
about one hour and fifteen minutes after she anchored the
second time.
'The opinion of the Circuit Court emphasizes the fact that the

"Bohemian Club" did not obstruct southbound traffic in her first
position but did obstruct this traffic in her second position. Since,
however, the "Bohemian Club" obstructed the northbound traffic in
her first position, this fact could not be material unless there was
evidence that her Master should have anticipated that the volume of
southbound traffic would be heavier than that of northbound traffic.
No finding on this question is disclosed by the record.
4Article 15, Navigation Rules for Harbors, Rivers, and Inland
Waters; 30 Stat. 99; U. S. C. Title 33, § 191 (2) (d).

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

The question for decision is whether the Circuit Court
correctly held that the action of the "Bohemian Club" in
anchoring in the channel at the point of the collision was
unlawful under § 15 of the Act of March 3, 1899. The
command of § 15 forbidding vessels to "anchor . . .in
navigable channels" has uniformly been interpreted not
to be absolute." An exception to the duty required by this
section has been recognized where literal compliance with
its terms would create a danger to navigation which could
be avoided or reduced by violation of its terms. See The
Socony No. 9, 74 F. 2d 233, 234. As a practical matter
an opposite construction would defeat the plain purpose
of § 15 to maintain and promote the safety of navigation.
It would, in addition, be out of harmony with Article 27
of the general Navigation Rules for Harbors, Rivers, and
Inland Waters, which requires that "in obeying and construing these rules due regard shall be had to all dangers of
navigation and collision, and to any special circumstances
which may render a departure from the . . .rules necessary in order to avoid immediate danger."' Cf. The
Cayuga, 14 Wall. 270, 275, 276. Furthermore Article 15
of these general Rules, above referred to, contemplated
that under some circumstances vessels may be compelled
to anchor in foggy weather, and prescribed sound signals
which vessels so anchored must use.
In the instant case the Circuit Court of Appeals recognized that the duty imposed by § 15 is not absolute and
held that, under the circumstances, the act of the "Bohemian Club" in anchoring on the east side of the channel
was lawful. The Court felt compelled, however, to hold
that the act of anchoring on the west side was unlawful
under § 15. We think this section does not require such a
. I The Europe, 190 F. 475, 479; The Caldy, 153 F. 837, 840; see also
the cases cited in Note 2, supra.
630 Stat. 102, U. S. C. Title 33, § 212.

COMMISSIONER v. HEININGER.
Syllabus.

462

holding. Whether anchored on the east or the west side
of the channel the "Bohemian Club" would, within the
literal terms of the section, "obstruct the passage of other
vessels." The District Court found that when the fog enveloped the "Bohemian Club" for the second time, "the
least dangerous course" was to anchor on the west side of
the channel; and this finding was not disturbed by the
Circuit Court. Under a proper construction of § 15,
therefore, the circumstances which necessitated both the
first and second anchorings of the "Bohemian Club" were
equally sufficient to warrant an exception to the duty
which it requires. Whether the act of lifting anchor and
moving to the western part of the channel to avoid the
danger of the buoy constituted negligence is a question
wholly outside § 15. Since the holding of the Circuit
Court rested upon an erroneous interpretation and application of this section, its judgment must be reversed.
Reversed.
COMMISSIONER

OF INTERNAL REVENUE
HEININGER.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 63. Argued November 12, 1943.-Decided December 20, 1943.
1. Attorney's fees and other legal expenses, reasonable in amount,
incurred by a taxpayer (a licensed dentist engaged in selling artificial dentures by mail) in resisting issuance by. the Postmaster
General of a "fraud order" which would destroy his business, and
in connection with subsequent proceedings on judicial review, the

final result of which was unsuccessful for the taxpayer, held, in
computing income tax under the Revenue Acts of 1936 and 1938,
deductiblp under § 23 (a) as "ordinary and necessary" expenses of

the business.

P. 472.

2. The policy of 39 U. S. C. §§ 259 and 732, which authorize the

Postmaster General to issue fraud orders, will not be frustrated by
allowance of the deduction. P. 474.

