680

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

320 U.S.

make infringement of what otherwise is not. The less
legal rights depend on someone's state of mind, the better.
The practical issue is whether we will leave such a combination patent with little value indeed or whether we will
give it value by projecting its economic effects to elements
not by themselves a part of its legal monopoly. In these
circumstances I think we should protect the patent owner
in the enjoyment of just what he has been granted-an
abstract right in an abstruse combination-worth whatever such a totality may be worth. I see no constitutional
or statutory authority for giving it additional value by
bringing into its monopoly all or any of the unpatentable
parts.
For these reasons I agree with the Court that no case
of infringement could have been made out had the issue
been raised when it was timely. But I agree with the
views of the doctrine of res adjudicataexpressed by MR.
JUsTI E ROBERTS and for that reason join the dissent.
MERCOID CORPORATION v. MINNEAPOLISHONEYWELL REGULATOR CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 58 and 59. Argued December 9, 10, 1943.-Decided January
3, 1944.
An owner of a combination patent may not so use it as to control
competition in the sale of an unpatented device, even though the
unpatented device may be the distinguishing part of the invention;
and a court of equity will grant or withhold relief accordingly. Mer-

coid Corp. v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., ante, p. 661. P. 684.
133 F. 2d 811, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 319 U. S. 739, to review a decree which reversed in part and affirmed in part a decree of the District
Court, 43 F. Supp. 878, in a patent infringment suit.

MERCOID CORP. v. HONEYWELL CO.
680

681

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George L. Wilkinson for petitioner.
Mr. Will Freeman, with whom Messrs. W. P. Bair and
George H. Fisher were on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are companion cases to Mercoid Corp. v. MidContinent Investment Co., ante, p. 661. One suit was instituted by petitioner, the other by respondent. Petitioner
sought a declaratory judgment to the effect that the
Freeman 'patent No. 1,813,732 was invalid and that petitioner did not infringe it, that respondent had used the
Freeman patent in violation of the anti-trust laws, that
respondent be restrained from threatening petitioner and
its customers with infringement suits, that an accounting
be had and treble damages awarded. Respondent in its
bill sought a decree sustaining the validity of the Freeman
patent and declaring that petitioner had infringed and
contributed to the infringement of its claims. In the
latter action petitioner filed a counterclaim praying for
substantially the same relief as in its earlier bill. After
issues were joined the causes were consolidated and tried
together. The District Court said that the Freeman
patent was valid and that Mercoid was guilty of contributory infringement. But it held that Minneapolis-Honeywell was using the patent as a means of controlling an
unpatented device contrary to the rule of Morton Salt Co.
v. G. 8. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488. Accordingly, it dismissed both complaints. 43 F. Supp. 878. On appeal
the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the patent claims
in issue were valid and that Mercoid had infringed them.
But it disagreed with the District Court that respondent
had sought to extend the scope of the patent in violation
of the anti-trust laws. Accordingly, it reversed the judgment of the District Court dismissing respondent's bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S.

and affirmed it as respects the relief claimed by petitioner.
133 F. 2d 811.
The Freeman patent, as found below, covers it system of
hot air furnace control which requires three thermostats
for its operation. A room thermostat starts the stoker.
Another thermostat (or limit switch) breaks the stoker
circuit when the air in the furnace reaches a predetermined
temperature, irrespective of the fact that the room
thermostat may still call for heat. This second thermostat operates to prevent unsafe conditions due to overheating. The third thermostat is also in the furnace. It
controls a fan which forces hot air from the furnace to the
rooms. It does not permit the fan to start until the air
in the furnace reaches a specified degree of heat. But at
that point it starts the fan which continues to run, even
though the limit switch has stopped the stoker, so long as
the furnace is hot and the room thermostat calls for heat.
The District Court found that the Freeman patent was
a combination patent on a system of furnace control which
requires those three thermostats for its operation and that
it was not a patent on "either the fan switch or the limit
switch or both of them." That finding was not disturbed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, which held that Freeman's "advance in the art" was the arrangement of
thermostatic switches, subject to furnace heat to secure
in connection with other parts the "sequence of operations" which we have described.
Minneapolis-Honeywell has licensed five of its manufacturing competitors under the Freeman patent. The
licensees are granted a non-exclusive right under the
patent to make, use and sell a "combination furnace control" which is defined as a thermostatic switch usable for
a Freeman installation and designed in one unit to control the fan and limit circuits. Royalty payments to
Minneapolis-Honeywell are based on the sales of the combination furnace controls, although the Circuit Court of
Appeals found that the only Minneapolis-Honeywell con-

MERCOID CORP. v. HONEYWELL CO.
680

683

Opinion of the Court.

trol "which gets protection as a result of the licenses is the
control usable only for a Freeman type installation."
Each licensee is required to insert in its catalogues or
other sales literature and to attach to each combination
furnace control sold a notice to the effect that the control
includes a license for one installation of the Freeman
heating system. The licenses establish minimum prices
for the sale of the controls; and those prices must not be
cut by the licensees through the inclusion of "extras" or
through the reduction of charges for services. Price lists
are attached governing sales to manufacturers, jobbers,
wholesalers, and dealers. Equal terms to all licensees
are provided. Minneapolis-Honeywell tried on several
occasions to induce Mercoid to take a license. Being
unsuccessful it brought its present suit.
Neither the petitioner nor the respondent sells or installs
the Freeman system in furnaces; that is to say, they do not
practice the invention. They are competitors in supplying the switch to control the fan and limit circuits employed in such systems. That switch or combustion furnace control is unpatented 1 and respondent concedes that
it is "less than the complete claimed invention." But, as
we have said, the Circuit Court of Appeals took the view
that that control provides "the sequence of operations
which is the precise essence of Freeman's advance in the
art." And the accused device has, according to the Circuit Court of Appeals, "no other use than for accomplishing the sequence of operations of the Freeman patent."
The Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that although the
combustion furnace control was unpatented, it served "to
distinguish the invention" and to mark the "advance in
the art" achieved by the Freeman patent. It accordingly
1 There is some suggestion that this device is patented. But according to the District Court any such patent "is owned by some
person other than Minneapolis-Honeywell and Mercoid, so that as
to them and so far as this case is concerned, it is an unpatented device."

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

held that the patent laws permit and the anti-trust laws do
not forbid the control over the sale and use of the unpatented device which Minneapolis-Honeywell sought to
achieve through its licensing agreements. We do not
agree, even though we assume the patent to be valid.
The fact that an unpatented part of a combination
patent may distinguish the invention does not draw to it
the privileges of a patent. That may be done only in the
manner provided by law. However worthy it may be,
however essential to the patent, an unpatented part of a
combination patent is no more entitled to monopolistic
protection than any other unpatented device. For as we
pointed out in Mercoid v. Mid-Continent Investment Co.,
supra, a patent on a combination is a patent on the assem-

bled or functioning whole, not on the separate parts. The
legality of any attempt to bring unpatented goods within
the protection of the patent is measured by the anti-trust
laws not by the patent law. For the reasons stated in
Mercoid v. Mid-Continent Investment Co., supra, the
effort here made to control competition in this unpatented
device plainly violates the anti-trust laws, even apart from
the price-fixing provisions of the license agreements. It
follows that petitioner is entitled to be relieved against the
consequences of those acts. It likewise follows that respondent may not obtain from a court of equity any decree
which directly or indirectly helps it to subvert the public
policy which underlies the grant of its patent. Morton
Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger Co., 314 U. S. 488, 494; B. B.
Chemical Co. v. Ellis, 314 U. S. 495.
The judgment is reversed and the causes axe remanded
to the District Court for proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER, and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concur in the re-

sult on the authority of Morton Salt Co. v. G. S. Suppiger
Co., 314 U. S. 488.

