OCTOBER TERM, 1943.

698

Statement of the Case.

320 U. S

within ยง 1 (22). Is not insistence on such an empty formalism a reversion to seventeenth century pleading which
required talismanic phrases, as for instance that a seller
could not be held to warrant that he sold what he purported to sell unless the buyer pleaded warrantizandovendidit or barganizasset? On the other hand, if the Court
with all the facts before it does not think the Yonkers
branch is a part of the railway operations of the New York
Central, now is the time to say so.
MR. JUSTICE REED and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join in this
opinion.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. PACE.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 117. Argued December 13, 1943.--Decided January 10, 1944.
1. Under the Act creating the Board of Tax Appeals for the District
of Columbia, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia has
power to review decisions of the Board conformably to the equity
practice, that is, on both the facts and the law, subject to the rule
that findings of fact are treated as presumptively correct and are
accepted unless clearly wrong. P. 702.
2. Upon review of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals for the District of Columbia, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
had power to set aside a finding by the Board that the domicile of a
decedent was in the District of Columbia, which the court found to
be clearly wrong, and to find that the domicile was in Florida.
P. 703.
3. The provisions for review in the Act creating the Board of Tax
Appeals for the District of Columbia were not superseded by Rule
52 of the Rules of Civil Procedure. P. 702.
77 U. S. App. D. C. 332, 135 F. 2d 249, affirmed.

post, p. 726, to review the reversal of a deciof Tax Appeals for the District of
Board
sion of the
Columbia sustaining an inheritance tax.
CERTIORARI,

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. PACE.
698

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Glenn Simmon, with whom Messrs. Richmond
B. Keech and Vernon E. West were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Elmer E. Hazard, with whom Messrs. George H.
Happ and Martin F. O'Donoghue were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Charles F. Pace came to the District of Columbia in
1913 from Florida, where he had theretofore been domiciled. His only purpose in coming was to enter the
federal service. He became Financial Clerk of the Senate
and served continuously until his death in the District in
1940. During these twenty-seven years he lived in boarding houses and in rented apartments and owned no real
property in the District. At all times he maintained
his registration and qualification to vote in the State of
Florida and exercised that right either in person or by
absentee ballot. His will, made in 1937, recited that he
was "of the City of Washington, D. C." It was probated
in Florida, and ancillary letters were granted in the District to the respondent executrix. District authorities,
upon the premise that Pace was domiciled in the District, assessed an inheritance tax upon the transfer of
certain jointly owned bank deposits within the District.
Respondents paid the tax under protest and then appealed
the assessment to the Board of Tax Appeals of the District
on the ground that decedent was domiciled in Florida at
the time of his death. The Board of Tax Appeals after
hearing argument determined that decedent was domiciled
in Florida, and ordered refund of the tax paid. The District appealed to the Court of Appeals, but before hearing
this Court decided District of Columbia v. Murphy, 314
U. S.441. The District thereupon moved to remand the

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

case to the Board of Tax Appeals for reconsideration in
the light of the intervening decision. The motion was
granted. Upon reconsideration the Board re-adopted the
findings theretofore made but concluded that the decedent
had not overcome the presumption, arising from maintaining a home in the District, that he was domiciled
therein, and reversed its former ruling.
The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia reversed. It accepted and applied our decision in District
of Columbia v. Murphy and, weighing the facts in the
light of its principles, concluded that the decedent was
domiciled in Florida at the time of his death. The evidence before the Board of Tax Appeals took a wide range,
and we do not think it is necessary to recite it in detail.
As is usual in cases of contested domicile, it gave rise to
conflicting inferences, and a decision either way would be
supported by substantial evidence. Whether the Board's
determination or that of the Court of Appeals should be
deemed correct would depend upon the weight to be given
to many different items of evidence, the credibility to be
given to testimony, and the inferences to be drawn from
many admitted events. We did not take this case to
determine where Mr. Pace was domiciled. But the
scope of review of decisions by the Board of Tax Appeals
of the District of Columbia is important to the administration of the District's tax laws, and since that question
was not reached or decided in District of Columbia v.
Murphy, we granted certiorari in this case.
Congress has seen fit in certain of the District's tax
statutes to make liability dependent upon domicile. In
the District, where a large proportion of the population
owe their presence to Government service and have the
strongest motives for retaining their political connections
with and domicile in the enfranchised community from
which they came, this test of taxability is bound to give
rise to innumerable and difficult conflicts. These the

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. PACE.
698

Opinion of the Court.

Board of Tax Appeals is authorized in the first instance
to resolve.
The provisions for review of Board of Tax Appeals
decisions present complexities almost as baffling as the
test of taxability itself. Section 4 (a) of the Act creating
the Board of Tax Appeals for the District of Columbia
provides that its decisions may be reviewed by the Court
of Appeals and that upon such review the court "shall have
the power to affirm, or if the decision of the Board is not
in accordance with law, to modify or reverse the decision of
the Board, with or without remanding the case for hearing,
as justice may require." 52 Stat. 371, D. C. Code (1940)
ยง 47-2404 (a). Had this been all, a strong case would be
made for applying the rule of finality applicable to the
Federal Board of Tax Appeals, now the Tax Court of the
United States. Dobson v. Commissioner, ante, p. 489.
However, the same organic act contains another and qualifying provision that is not to be found in the acts creating
the Tax Court: "The findings of fact by the Board shall
have the same effect as a finding of fact by an equity court
or a verdict of a jury." 52 Stat. 371, D. C. Code (1940)
ยง 47-2404 (a). Since findings of fact by an equity court
and the verdict of a jury have from time immemorial been
subject to different rules of finality it is puzzling to know
what the draftsmen of this section meant by including
both in the one rule for reviewing Board of Tax Appeals
findings.
This statute was enacted in May, 1938. The law at
that time as to the review of findings of fact in equity was,
as stated by Mr. Justice Brandeis for the Court, "in equity,
matters of fact as well as of law are reviewable . . ."

Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658, 675.
Findings of fact by the trial judge of course were presumptively correct and were accepted by reviewing courts unless
clearly wrong. Butte & Superior Copper Co. v. ClarkMontana Realty Co., 249 U. S. 12,30. This rule, however,

702

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S

did not deny power to the Circuit Court of Appeals to
review facts, but rather went to the weight to be accorded
to the findings of a lower court and had special pertinence
where credibility of witnesses was involved. This Court
had a well-settled rule that "when two courts have reached
the same conclusion on a question of fact, their finding
will not be disturbed unless it is clear that their conclusion
was erroneous." Baker v. Schofield, 243 U. S. 114, 118.
Such a rule would have no support in reason if the second
court could not make its findings as a result of its own
judgment.
The statute therefore authorizes review of findings of
fact of the Board of Tax Appeals of the District of Columbia, subject to the admonition that they are to be
undisturbed unless clearly wrong, if the findings are given
the effect of findings of fact by an equity court. If the
effect of the jury verdict, provided for in the same sentence, is to prevail, the review is much more restricted.
The question as to which of the inconsistent provisions
shall govern arises in a local statute confined in its operation to the District of Columbia. "We will not ordinarily
review decisions of the United States Court of Appeals,
which are based upon statutes so limited or which declare
the common law of the District." Del Vecchio v. Bowers,
296 U. S. 280, 285. Cf. American Security & Trust Co.
v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S. 491; United Surety Co.
v. American Fruit Product Co., 238 U. S. 140. Where a
local statute contains a conflict on its face as patent and as
irreconcilable as this, where either choice seems equally
supportable, we cannot say that the Court of Appeals
commits error in assuming its review of the Board of Tax
Appeals decision to be entitled to the scope of a review
of an equity court.
After the Board of Tax Appeals statute, Federal Rule
of Civil Procedure No. 52 was adopted, effective September 1, 1938. It provided as to all actions tried upon the

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. PACE.
698

Opinion of the Court.

facts without a jury: "Findings of fact shall not be set
aside unless clearly erroneous, and due regard shall be
given to the opportunity of the trial court to judge of the
credibility of the witnesses." This general rule, even if
it were thought to modify the previous rule as to review
of findings of fact in equity cases, would hardly supersede
a special statutory measure of review applicable to a
special and local tribunal.
We conclude, therefore, that the Court of Appeals has
power to review decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals
as under the equity practice in which the whole case, both
facts and law, is open for consideration in the appellate
court, subject to the long-standing rule that findings of
fact are treated as presumptively correct and are accepted
unless clearly wrong. The Court of Appeals therefore
had power to set aside the determination of the Board of
Tax Appeals if convinced, as it was, that the Board was
clearly wrong. We are not called upon to separate factual
from legal grounds of decision and to determine if reversal
of the Board of Tax Appeals by the Court of Appeals
could stand on questions of law alone. The judgment
therefore is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE

RUTLEDGE

part in the consideration or decision of this case.

took no

