OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

HILL, ADMINISTRATOR, v. HAWES

320 U. S.
ET AL.,

TRUSTEES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 4. Argued December 6, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.
1. Rule 10 of the Rules of the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia, limiting to 20 days the time within which
an appeal may be taken to that court from a judgment of the District Court of the United.States for the District of Columbia, sustained. P. 522.
The statutory power of the court to adopt the rule (Act of July
30, 1894, amending Act of Feb. 9, 1893) was not altered by the
Judicial Code (1911), or the Act of Feb. 13, 1925, or the Rules of
Civil Procedure.
2. The clerk of the District Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia having failed upon entry of judgment to notify the
parties as required by Rule 77 (d) of the Rules of Civil Procedure,
the judge at the same term ordered the judgment vacated and entry
of a new judgment, of which notice was sent in compliance with the
rules. Held that the time for appeal began to run from the
date of the entry of the second judgment. P. 523.
76 U. S. App. D. C. 308, 132 F. 2d 569, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 753, to review a judgment dismissing an appeal as out of time.

Mr. Henry Lincoln Johnson, Jr., with whom Mr. Thurman L. Dodson was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John B. Gunion for Francis L. Hawes, Trustee,

respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents important questions respecting the
rule-making power of the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia touching appeals to that
court and the powers of the District Court of the United

HILL v. HAWES.
Opinion of the Court.

520

States for the District of Columbia to vacate its
judgments.
Rule 10 of the Rules of the Court of Appeals, as it
stood when applied in this case, was:
"No . . . judgment . . . of the District Court of the

United States for the District of Columbia, or of any justice thereof, shall be reviewed by the Court of Appeals,
unless the appeal shall be taken within 20 days after the
• . . judgment . . . complained of shall have been made
,1
or pronounced ....

In the instant case a judge of the District Court, after a
hearing on a complaint and answer, on May 7, 1940, signed
a judgment dismissing the complaint. The clerk noted
the judgment in the docket. This entry, pursuant to
Rule 79 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, made the
judgment effective at the date of entry. (See Rule 58.)
The twenty-day period for appeal expired May 27 but
no notice of appeal was filed until June 3. Rule 77 (d)
of the Rules of Civil Procedure imposed on the clerk the
duty, immediately upon the entry of the judgment, to
send notice of such entry, in the way specified by Rule 5,
but it is agreed that no such notice was sent.
June 6 the petitioner filed a motion to enter judgment
and to direct the clerk to notify the parties. The reasons
stated in support of the motion were that the clerk had
failed to enter the day or the month of the judgment as
required by the rules of court and had failed to notify
the parties. The motion was not acted on until June 24,
when the court denied it.
In the meantime, on June 13, the trial judge ordered the
judgment of May 7 vacated "for the reason that the clerk
failed under Rule 77 (d) of the Rules of Civil Procedure
to serve a notice of the entry of judgment by mail on the
plaintiff . . . and to make a note in the docket of the
Februay 1, 1941, the rule was amended to substitute a period
of 30 days for the 20 days theretofore provided.
2

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

mailing." The same day the judge signed and filed a second judgment in the same terms as that of May 7, which
was duly noted in the docket. The petitioner filed a no.
tice of appeal from this judgment on June 14. The respondent moved to dismiss the appeal as taken out of
time. The court below granted the motion and dismissed
the appeal.2
The petitioner urges that the rule of the court below
fixing 20 days as the period within which appeal may be
taken is contrary to law and that, even though the rule
is valid, the appeal was timely because taken within 20
days of the judgment finally entered.
First. We hold that Rule 10 of the Court of Appeals is
within the competence of that court. The court was established by the Act of February 9, 1893,1 which, in § 6,
empowered it to "make such rules and regulations as may
be necessary and proper for the transaction of the business to be brought before it, and for the time and method
of the entry of appeals." The Act of July 30, 1894,'
amended § 6 to read that the court might make "such
rules and regulations as may be necessary and proper for
the transaction of its business and the taking of appeals
to said court." Both of these statutes were later than the
Act of March 3, 1891,' which created circuit courts of appeals and provided for appeals to such courts within six
months after the entry of judgment. The Judicial Code
adopted March 3, 1911,1 did not alter or enlarge the provisions of the Act of March 3, 1891, supra.
In Ex parteDante,228 U. S. 429, decided April 28, 1913,
this court affirmed the validity of Rule 10. This decision
necessarily imports that the statute conferring power on
132 F. 2d 569; 76 U. S.App. D. C.308.
Sc. 74, 27 Stat. 434.
2

'c. 172, 28 Stat. 160.
5 c. 517, § 11, 26 Stat. 826,829.

36 Stat. 1087.

HILL v. HAWES.
520

Opinion of the Court.

the Court of Appeals to set the time for appeal was not
superseded by the legislation creating and defining the
jurisdiction of circuit courts of appeals. No reference is
made to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in § 8 (c) of the Act of February 13,
1925, which reduced to three months the time within
which to take appeals to the circuit courts of appeals.!
The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure have not altered
statutory provisions respecting the time for taking appeals
from district courts. It follows that the court below possesses the statutory power to set the time within which an
appeal from the District Court must be taken.
Second. It goes without saying that the District Court
could not extend the period fixed by Rule 10. The respondent urges that the vacation of the judgment of May
7, arid the entry of a new judgment on June 13, amounted
merely to an attempted extension of the time for appeal;
that judgment was duly entered and became final on May
7; that the clerk's neglect to comply with Rule 77 (d) in
the matter of notice does not affect its validity or its finality, and that the notice of appeal of June 14 was consequently out of time and the court below properly dismissed
the appeal on that ground. We cannot agree.
It is true that Rule 77 (d) does not purport to attach
any consequence to the failure of the clerk to give the prescribed notice; but we can think of no reason for requiring
the notice if counsel in the cause are not entitled to rely
upon the requirement that it be given. It may well be
that the effect to be given to the rule is that, although the
judgment is final for other purposes, it does not become
final for the purpose of starting the running of the period
for appeal until notice is sent in accordance with the rule.
The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure permit the amendment or vacation of a judgment for clerical mistakes or
c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 940.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

errors arising from oversight or omission and authorize the
court to relieve a party from a judgment or order taken
against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect. (See Rule 60 (a) (b).) These rules do
not in terms apply to the situation here present, as the
court below held. But we think it was competent for the
trial judge, in the view that the petitioner relied upon the
provisions of Rule 77 (d) with respect to notice, and in the
exercise of a sound discretion, to vacate the former judgment and to enter a new judgment of which notice was
sent in compliance with the rules. The term had not expired and the judgment was still within control of the
trial judge for such action as was in the interest of justice
to a party to the cause.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the court below for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting:

I do not understand that the Court rests its decision
on the ground that Rule 77 (d) of the Rules of Civil Procedure makes notice of entry prerequisite to the finality
of the judgment for purposes of appeal. If it does, most
else that is said is unnecessary to the decision. In any
case what is said seems to me to be untenable in principle
and without support in authority.
To say that a district court can rightly extend the prescribed time for taking an appeal by the reentry, pro
forma, of a final judgment after the time to appeal from
it has expired, is to disregard considerations of certainty
and stability which have hitherto been considered of first
importance in the appellate practice of the federal courts.
It is to sanction the regulation of the time for appeal by
courts, contrary to the appeal statute, and without support in law or any rule of court. Rule 60, which permits

HILL v. HAWE9.
520

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

amendment of the judgment or relief of a party from it,
in circumstances not here present, gives no warrant for
enlarging the time for appeal by reentry of a judgment
which is not amended and from no part of which any
party has been relieved.
In the federal courts there is no right to appeal save as
it is granted by Congress or a rule of court which is authorized by Congress and has the force of law. See Heike
v. United States, 217 U. S. 423, 428; Ex parte Dante, 228
U. S. 429, 432. It is in the public interest, and it is the
very purpose of limiting the period for appeal, to set a
definite and ascertainable point of time when litigation
shall be at an end unless within that time application for
appeal has been made; and if it has not, to advise prospective appellees that they are freed of the appellant's
demands. Matton Steamboat Co. v. Murphy, 319 U. S.
412,415.
That purpose is defeated if judges may enlarge the time
for appeal beyond the period prescribed by law, whether
by an order purporting directly to extend it or by reentry,
without change, of a judgment which has already become
final. It is for that reason that this Court has consistently
ruled that no federal judge or court possesses the power
to extend the time for appeal beyond the statutory period
by any form of judicial action which falls short of a reconsideration of the provisions of the judgment in point
of substance so as to postpone its finality.
The decisions are numerous and diligence of court and
counsel has revealed no exceptions. Credit Company v.
Arkansas Central Ry. Co., 128 U. S. 258, is representative
of the unbroken current of authority. There, in dismissing an appeal as untimely the Court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Bradley, said at page 261: "The attempt made,
in this case, to anticipate the actual time of presenting
and filing the appeal, by entering an order nunc pro tunc,
does not help the case. When the time for taking an

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

320 U.S.

appeal has expired, it cannot be arrested or called back
by a simple order of court. If it could be, the law which
limits the time within which an appeal can be taken
would be a dead letter."
At the last term of Court we held that the reentry of
its final judgment by a state appellate court, with only
formal changes not affecting any matter adjudicated,
did not enlarge the time to appeal to this Court. Department of Banking v. Pink, 317 U. S. 264. And at the same
term we held that a motion to amend a final judgment
would not toll the time for appeal unless the amendments
proposed were of substance rather than form, Leishman v.
Associated Electric Co., 318 U. S. 203, 205-6-an inquiry
which presupposed that reentry of the judgment without
formal change could not enlarge the time. To the same
effect are Pfister v. Northern Illinois Finance Corp., 317
U. S. 144, 149-51; Zimmern v. United States, 298 U. S.
167. And in Wayne Gas Co. v. Owens-Illinois Glass Co.,
300 U. S. 131,137, this Court, citing In re Stearns & White
Co., 295 F. 833; Bonner v. Potterf, 47 F. 2d 852, 855;
United States v. East, 80 F. 2d 134, 135, declared that
where it appears that a rehearing has been granted only
for the purpose of extending the time of appeal the
appeal must be dismissed-a statement equally applicable
to the reentry of the judgment solely for that purpose.
Petitioner, by the exercise of the diligence required by
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure could have learned
of the entry of the judgment against him and have taken
a timely appeal. His case is not hard enough to afford
even the proverbial apology for our saying that federal
judges, by the re6ntry of a judgment for no other purpose,
are free to make a dead letter of the statutory limit of the
period for appeal.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

concurs.

