CONSUMERS CO. v. KABUSHIKI KAISHA. 249
Statement of the Case.

243

the hearing contemplated by § 75 (s) (3) has been had.
A party is not entitled to a trial de novo as of right on the
review in the District Court, Equitable Life Assurance
Society v. Carmody, 131 F. 2d 318, and none was requested
by petitioner. Nor is there any requirement that the
judge must reverse and remand the case to the commissioner for further hearings or for his considered judgment
based solely on the competent evidence. To so hold
would render nugatory the discretionary power given the
judge by Order 47 to receive further evidence himself or
to modify or reject, in whole or in part, the commissioner's
findings on appeal. In addition, it would make mandatory what is at most a discretionary power of the judge
under § 75 (s) (3) to authorize a hearing before the
commissioner.
The judgment below is accordingly
Affirmed.
CONSUMERS IMPORT CO. ET A. v. KABUSHIKI
KAISHA KAWASAKI ZOSENJO ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 32.

FOR THE

Argued October 21, 1943.-Decided November 8, 1943.

1. For damage to cargo by fire not caused by the "design or neglect"
of the shipowner, the Fire Statute extinguishes claims against the

vessel as well as claims against the owner. P. 253.
2. That the contracts of affreightment were signed "for master" does
not require a different result. P. 252.
3. There was in this case no waiver of immunity under the Fire
Statute. P. 254.
4. The Etna Maru,33 F. 2d 232, to the extent that it conflicts herewith,
is disapproved. P. 256.
133 F. 2d 781, affirmed.

CERTIORAIM, 319 U. S. 734, to review the affirmance of a
decree (39 F. Supp. 349) which, in a suit by cargo claim-

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

ants, exonerated the owner and bareboat charterer of the
vessel from liability for damage by fire.
Mr. T. Catesby Jones, with whom Messrs. D. Roger
Englar, Ezra G. Benedict Fox, and Thomas H. Middleton
were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. George C. Sprague for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioners, Consumers Import Company and others,
hold bills of lading covering several hundred shipments
of merchandise. The shipments were damaged or destroyed by fire or by the means used to extinguish fire on
board the Japanese ship Venice Maru on August 6, 1934,
on voyage from Japan to Atlantic ports of the United
States. Respondent Kabushiki Kaisha Kawasaki Zosenjo owned the Venice Maru and let her to the other respondent, Kawasaki Kisen Kabushiki Kaisha, under a
bareboat form of charter. The latter was operating her
as a common carrier.
Damage to the cargo is conceded from causes which are
settled by the findings below, which we decline to review."
Upwards of 660 tons of sardine meal in bags was stowed
in a substantially solid mass in the hold. In view of its
susceptibility to heating and combustion it had inadequate ventilation. As the ship neared the Panama Canal,
fire broke out, resulting in damage to cargo and ship. The
cause of the fire is found to be negligent stowage of the fish
meal, which made the vessel unseaworthy. The negligence was that of a person employed to supervise loading
to whom responsibility was properly delegated and who
was qualified by experience to perform the work. No
negligence or design of the owner or charterer is found.
IThe facts are considered at length in the opinion of the Court of
Appeals, 133 F. 2d 781.

CONSUMERS CO. v. KABUSHIKI KAISHA. 251
249

Opinion of the Court.

The cargo claimants filed libels in rem against the ship
and in personam against the charterer for breach of contracts of carriage. The owner joined the charterer in a
proceeding in admiralty to decree exemption from or limitation of liability. Stipulation and security were substituted for the ship in the custody of the court.2 The
District Court applied the so-called "Fire Statute" to exonerate the owner entirely and the charterer and the
ship in all except matters not material to the issue here.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, taking a view of
the statute in conflict with that of the Fifth Circuit in
The Etna Maru, 33 F. 2d 232. To resolve the conflict we
granted certiorari expressly limited to the question, "Does
the Fire Statute extinguish maritime liens for cargo damage, or is its operation confined to in personam liability
only?" I
The Fire Statute reads: "No owner of any vessel shall
be liable to answer for or make good to any person any
loss or damage, which may happen to any merchandise
whatsoever, which shall be shipped, taken in, or put on
board any such vessel, by reason or by means of any fire
happening to or on board the vessel, unless such fire is
caused by the design or neglect of such owner."'
The
statute also provides that a charterer such as we have here
stands in the position of the owner for purposes of limitation or exemption of liability."
2

Admiralty Rule 51.

The Alien Property Custodian on July 30, 1942, vested in himself
all property in the United States of respondent Kawasaki Kisen Kabushiki Kaisha. Vesting Orders 77 and 80, 7 Federal Register 7048,
70-9. On March 15, 1943, he vested in himself all property of Tokyo
Marine & Fire Insurance Co. Ltd., a Japanese corporation which advanced cash collateral to the surety who became such in the ad
interim stipulation. Vesting Order 10S4, S Federal Register 3647.
8319 U. S. 734.
'Act of March 3, 1851, § 1, now 46 U. S. C. § 182, formerly R. S.
§ 4282.
5Act of March 3, 1851, § 5, now 46 U. S. C. § 186.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

Since "neglect of the owner" means his personal negligence, or in case of a corporate owner, negligence of its
managing officers and agents as distinguished from that
of the master or subordinates,6 the findings below take the
case out of the only exception provided by statute.
Apart from this inapplicable exception the immunity
granted appears on its face complete. But claimants
contend that because their eontracts of affreightment were
signed "for master" they became under maritime law
ship's contracts, independently of any owners' contracts,
and that the ship itself stands bound to the cargo though
the owner may be freed. It seems unnecessary to examine
the validity, of the claim that apart from the statute
claimants under the circumstances would have a lien on
the vessel, or to review the historical development of the
fiction that the ship for some purposes is treated as a jural
personality apart from that of its owner. If we assume
that the circumstances are appropriate otherwise for such
a lien as claimants assert, it only brings us to the question whether the Fire Statute cuts across it as well as other
doctrines of liability and extinguishes claims against the
vessel as well as against the owner.
The provision here in controversy is § 1 of the Act of
March 3, 1851. Despite its all but a century of existence,
the contention here made has never been before this Court.
Sections 3 and 4 of the same Act in other circumstances
provided limitations of liability, and as to them a question was considered by this Court in The City of Norwich,
118 U. S. 468, 502 (1886), stated thus: "It is next contended that the act of Congress does not extend to the
exoneration of the ship, but only exonerates the owners
by a surrender of the ship and freight, and, therefore, that
the plea of limited liability cannot be received in a pro6 Walker

v. TransportationCo., 3 Wall. 150; Craig v. Continental
Ins. Co., 141 U. S. 638, 647; Earle & Stoddart v. Ellerman's Wilson
Line, 287 U. S. 420, 424.

CONSUMERS CO. v. KABUSHIKI KAISHA. 253
29

Opinion of the Court.

ceeding in rem." The Court rejected the contention
and held that when the owner satisfied the limited
obligation fixed on him by statute, owner and vessel were
both discharged. The Court said that "To say that an
owner is not liable, but that his vessel is liable, seems to
us like talking in riddles." The riddle after more than
half a century repeated to us in different context does not
appear to us to have improved with age.

In the meantime, with the exception of The Etna Maru,
the lower federal courts have uniformly construed the
statutes as exonerating the ship as well as the owner.'
We would be reluctant to overturn an interpretation supported by such consensus of opinion among courts of admiralty, even if its justification were more doubtful than
this appears.!
Petitioners say, however, that such of these decisions as
are not distinguishable were "ill-considered." We think
that the better reason as well as the weight of authority
refutes petitioners. To sustain their contention would
deny effect to the Fire Statute as an immunity and convert it into a limitation of liability to the value of the ship.
This is what Congress did in other sections of the same
Act 9and elsewhere," which suggests that it used different
language here because it had a different purpose to accomplish. Congress has said that the owner shall not
4"answer
for" this loss in question. Claimant says this
means in effect that he shall answer only with his ship.
But the owner would never answer for a loss except with

I Dill v. The Bertram, Fed. Cas. 3910; Keene v. The Whistler, Fed.
-Cas. 7645; The Rapid Transit, 52 F. 320; The Salvore, 60 F. 2d 683;
The Older, 65 F. 2d 359; The President Wilson, 5 F. Supp. 684; see
Earle & Stoddart v. Ellerman'8 Wilson Line, 287 U. S. 420, 427, n. 3;
The Buckeye State, 39 F. Supp. 344, 346-47.
8See United States v. Ryan, 284 U. S. 167, 174; Missouriv. Ross, 299
U. S. 72, 75.
*§§ 2, 3, Act of March 3, 1851.
19

Harter Act of February 13. 1893, 46 U. S. C. §§ 190-96.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

his property, since execution against the body was not at
any time in legislative contemplation. There could be
no practical exoneration of the owner that did not at the
same time exempt his property. If the owner by statute
is told that he need not "make good" to the shipper, how
may we say that he shall give up his ship for that very
purpose? It seems to us that Congress has, with the exception stated in the Act, extinguished fire claims as an
incident of contracts of carriage, and that no fiction as to
separate personality of the ship may revive them. There
may, of course, be a waiver of the benefits of the Fire
Statute, but none is present in this case.
Claimants urge that the statute as construed goes beyond any other exemption from liability for negligence allowed to a common carrier, and that it should therefore
be curtailed by strict construction. We think, however,
that claimants' contention would result in a frustration of
the purpose of the Act.
At common law the shipowner was liable as an insurer
for fire damage to cargo.11 We may be sure that this legal
policy of annexing an insurer's liability to the contract of
carriage loaded the transportation rates of prudent carriers to compensate the risk. Long before Congress did so,
England had separated the insurance liability from the
carrier's duty.u To enable our merchant marine to compete, Congress enacted this statute."' It was a sharp de-

l New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How.
344, 381. The Act of March 3, 1851, followed soon after and probably
was enacted in consequence of this decision. See The Great Western,
118 U. S. 520, 533.
2 This Court has heretofore pointed out that the Act of March 3,
1851 was patterned on English statutes, including Act of 7 George II,
c. 15, passed in 1734, and 26 George III, c. 86 (1786). See Norwich
Co. v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104, 117 et seq.; The Main v. Wiliams, 152
U. S. 122, 124.
13 Senator Hamlin reported the bill from the Committee on Commerce on January 25, 1851 and said, "This bill is predicated on what

CONSUMERS CO. v. KABUSHIKI KAISHA. 255
249

Opinion of the Court.

parture from the concepts that had usually governed the
common carrier relation, but it is not to be judged as if
applied to land carriage, where shipments are relatively
multitudinous and small and where it might well work
injustice and hardship. The change on sea transport
seems less drastic in economic effects than in terms of
doctrine. It enabled the carrier to compete by offering a
carriage rate that paid for carriage only, without loading
it for fire liability. The shipper was free to carry his own
fire risk, but if he did not care to do so it was well known
that those who made a business of risk-taking would issue
him a separate contract of fire insurance. Congress had
simply severed the insurance features from the carriage
features of sea transport and left the shipper to buy each
separately. While it does not often come to the surface
of the record in admiralty proceedings, we are not unaware
that in commercial practice the shipper who buys carriage
from the shipowner usually buys fire protection from an
insurance company, thus obtaining in two contracts what
once might have been embodied in one. The purpose
of the statute to relieve carriage rates of the insurance
burden would be largely defeated if we were to adopt an
interpretation which would enable cargo claimants and
is now the English law, and it is deemed advisable by the Committee
on Commerce that the American marine should stand at home and
abroad as well as the English marine." 23 Cong. Globe 332.
On Fcbruary 26, 1851, speaking to the bill, Senator Hamlin said:
"These are the provisions of the bill. It is true that the changes are
most radical from the common law upon the subject; but they are
rendered necessary, first, from the fact that the English common law
system really never had an application to this country, and, second,
that the English Government has changed the law, which is a very
strong and established reason why we should place our commercial
marine upon an equal footing with hers. Why not give to those who
navigate the ocean as many inducements to do so as England has done?
Why not place them upon that great theatre where we are to have the
great contest for the supremacy of the commerce of the world? That
is what this bill seeks to do, and it asks no more." 23 Cong. Globe 715.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U. S.

their subrogees to shift to the ship the risk of which Congress relieved the owner. This would restore the insurance burden at least in large part to the cost of carriage
and hamper the competitive opportunity it was purposed
to foster by putting our law on an equal basis with that of
England.
Our conclusion is that any maritime liens for claimants'
cargo damage are extinguished by the Fire Statute. In so
far as the decision in The Etna Maru conflicts, it is
disapproved, and the judgment of the court below is

Affirmed.
MERCHANTS NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON, EXECUTOR, v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 30. Argued October 19, 1943.-Decided November 15, 1943.
1. Section 303 (a) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1926, which allows
deduction for estate tax purposes of amounts bequeathed to or for
the use of charities, was validly implemented by Treasury Regulations 80 (1934 ed.), Arts. 44 and 47, which provide that, where a
trust is created for both charitable and private purposes, the charitable bequest, to be deductible, must have at the testator's death
a value "presently ascertainable, and hence severable from the interest in favor of the private use," and further, to the extent that
there is a power in a private donee or trustee to divert the property
from the charity, "deduction will be limited to that portion, if any,
of the property or fund which is exempt from an exercise of such
power." P. 260.
2. Under a trust created by will, the income was to be paid to the
testator's widow for life, and on her death all but a specified amount
of the principal was to go to designated charities. The trustee was
authorized, in his discretion, to invade the corpus for the "comfort,
support, maintenance, and/or happiness" of the widow, and was
directed to exercise that discretion with liberality towards the widow
and to consider her "welfare, comfort and happiness prior to claims

