CALIFORNIA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

CALIFORNIA ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
NO. 20. APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.*

Argued December 6, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.

The Maritime Commission, upon finding that waterfront terminals in
the San Francisco Bay area were engaged in preferential and unreasonable practices-resulting from excessive free time and noncompensatory demurrage charges-in violation of §§ 16 and 17 of
the Shipping Act of 1916, as amended, prescribed schedules of
maximum free time and minimum demurrage charges. The State
and a municipality, which operated terminals but which were not
common carriers by water, challenged the validity of the order as
applied to them. Held:
1. The order was proper under § 17 which authorizes the Commission, when it finds unjust and unreasonable a regulation or practice relating to or connected with the receiving, handling, storing,
or delivering of property, to "determine, prescribe, and order enforced a just and reasonable regulation or practice." P. 584.
2. It was proper to fix minimum demurrage charges which would
reflect the cost of the service. P. 583.
3. The phrase "other person subject to this Act"--defined in
§ 1 as "any person not included in the term 'common carrier by
water,' carrying on the business of forwarding or furnishing wharfage,
dock, warehouse, or other terminal facilities in connection with a
common carrier by water"--includes the State and the municipality.
P. 585.
4. Regulation of the activities and instrumentalities here involved-whether activities and instrumentalities of private or public
agencies-was within the power of Congress under the Commerce
Clause. P. 586.
46 F. Supp. 474, affirmed.
APPEALS from decrees of a District Court of three judges
refusing to set aside an order of the Maritime Commission,

2 U. S. M. C. 588.
*Together with No. 22, Oakland v. United States et al., also on
appeal from the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

Mr. Lucas E. Kilkenny, Deputy Attorney General of
California, with whom Mr. Robert W. Kenny, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellants in No. 20. Mr.
TV. Reginald Jones for appellant in No. 22.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Shea, and Messrs. Valentine Brookes and K. Norman Diamond were on the brief, for the United States
and the United States Maritime Commission, appellees.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The United States Maritime Commission found that
terminals along the commercial waterfront in the Port of
San Francisco were engaged in preferential and unreasonable practices in that they allowed excessive free time and
made non-compensatory charges for their services, all
in violation of §§ 16 and 17 of the Shipping Act of 1916,
as amended.' Accordingly, the Commission ordered the
cessation of these proscribed practices, and in order to assure lawful practices it prescribed schedules of maximum
1 Section 16, so far as here relevant, provides: "That it shall be

unlawful for any common carrier by water, or other person subject
to this Act, either alone or in conjunction with any other person,
directly or indirectly-First. To make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular person, locality,
or description of traffic in any respect whatsoever, or to subject any
particular person, locality, or description oT traffic to any undue or
unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever."
c. 451, 39 Stat. 734, c. 581, 49 Stat. 1518, 46 U. S. C. § 815.
The pertinent portion of § 17 reads: "Every such carrier and every
other person subject to this Act shall establish, observe, and enforce
just and reasonable regulations and practices relating to or connected
with the receiving, handling, storing, or delivering of property.
Whenever the commission finds that any such regulation or practice is unjust or unreasonable it may determine, prescribe, and order
enforced a just and reasonable regulation or practice." c. 451, 39
Stat. 734, Ex. Ord. No. 6166, c. 858, 49 Stat. 1987, 2016, 46 U. S. C.

§ 816.

CALIFORNIA v. UNITED STATES.
577

Opinion of the Court.

free time periods and of minimum charges to reflect the
actual cost of services. 2 U. S. M. C. 588. Two of the
terminal operators in the San Francisco Bay area were the
State of California and the City of Oakland. They
brought these proceedings to set aside the Commission's
order in so far as it applied to them. A district court of
three judges denied relief. 46 F. Supp. 474. The case is
here on direct appeal under § 31 of the Shipping Act (c.
451, 39 Stat. 738, Ex. Ord. No. 6166, c. 858, 49 Stat. 1987,
2016, 46 U. S. C. § 830) in connection with the Urgent Deficiencies Act of 1913 (c. 32, 38 Stat. 220, 28 U. S. C.
§§ 47 and 47a) and the Judiciary Act of 1925 (c. 229, 43
Stat. 938, 28 U. S. C. § 345 (4)). California and Oakland
denied the power of the Commission to issue the kind of
order that it did, and in any event they urged that the
authority under which the Commission acted does not or,
if it does, cannot constitutionally cover their operations.
The legal issues depend for their solution upon an understanding of the situation to which the Commission addressed itself-the circumstances as the Commission
found them and the appropriate way of dealing with
them. What follows is a rapid summary of a voluminous
record.
Through its Board of State Harbor Commissioners,
California provides facilities for the handling of freight
and passengers on the San Francisco waterfront, under a
statute which prohibits the Board from making charges
beyond the cost of furnishing such facilities and administering them. California Harbors and Navigation Code
§§ 3080, 3084. Pier and office space is assigned by the
Board to various steamship lines, and charges fixed by
the Board are collected by these assignees for the Board.
Except at two piers, the assignees handle the cargo, but
the Board employs a staff of men to check all cargo and
vessel movements and collect its charges. Oakland,
through its Board of Port Commissioners, operates

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S.

piers and terminals which, like those of California, are designed to accommodate vessels in coastwise, intercoastal,
offshore, and foreign trade. Whether the facilities are
operated by the City directly or leased to another, the
City prescribes and collects the charges.
In thus providing facilities for water-borne traffic, Oakland and California have for many years competed with
privately-owned terminals in San Francisco Bay. Cutthroat competition ensued, with the inevitable chaos following abnormally low rates. In an attempt to remedy
the situation, the California Railroad Commission investigated the operations of terminals in San Francisco Bay,
and, more particularly pertinent for present purposes, the
prevalent discrimination among users of the terminal services. The conclusions from this inquiry were embodied in
an order issued by the Railroad Commission in 1936. 40
Calif. R. R. Comm. Decisions 107. But publicly-owned
terminals, and therefore those of California and Oakland,
are not subject to the jurisdiction of the Railroad Commission. Since these public bodies operated the major
portion of the dock facilities in the area, the Railroad
Commission naturally found it impossible to order adjustments in the practices of the private terminals unless
the competing public bodies agreed to make similar adjustments. The order of the Commission was so conditioned. California and Oakland acceded to the recommendations in some respects but failed to do so as to
practices now to be described.
When cargo is brought to a wharf for shipment or removed to a wharf from a ship, it is the custom to allow a
period of "free time" during which the cargo may rest
on the wharf without charge. The length of the free
time is fixed, broadly speaking, by determining the period
reasonably necessary for the shipper to assemble or to
remove his goods and for the ship to load or to discharge.
When cargo is left on the wharf beyond the free time

CALIFORNIA v. UNITED STATES.
577

Opinion of the Court.

period, a charge called "wharf demurrage or storage" is
assessed. The Railroad Commission recommended free
time periods shorter than was the practice of California
and Oakland, and wharf demurrage charges greater in
many instances than those collected by them. These
recommendations California and Oakland rejected. This
impasse, due to the immunity of California and Oakland
from state regulation, was followed by the proceedings
before the United States Maritime Commission which resulted in the order now before us. Extended hearings
were held before the Commission's examiner, at which
the principal witnesses were officials of the Board and
Oakland and an expert of the Railroad Commission.
After full submission of the controversy, the examiner
made his report and findings. On exceptions to some of
his findings, the issues were again thoroughly canvassed
before the Commission, and on September 11, 1941, it
made its order.
The Commission found that there was a marked lack
of uniformity in the free time periods allowed by the
various terminals, and that to the extent that appellants'
free time allowances were greater than those recommended by the Railroad Commission they were unreasonable and led to discrimination against those persons who
did not and could not use extended free time. After consideration of the cost studies submitted by its experts as
well as of the data introduced by appellants, the Commission further found that appellants' demurrage charges
were less than the cost of the services and the carrying
charges of the facilities which furnished them. It concluded that unless those who took advantage of wharf
storage supplied revenue sufficient to meet the cost of the
service, the burden would be shifted to those who paid
appellants for other terminal services, such as docking
of vessels, loading and unloading, and transportation
privileges over and through the terminals. Accordingly,

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

the Commission ordered appellants to cease and desist
from allowing greater periods of free time than those
found reasonable by the Railroad Commission, and to
abstain from collecting wharf demurrage and storage
rates less than those prescribed by the California authority
for private terminals.2
Having found violations of §§ 16 and 17, the Commission was charged by law with the duty of devising appropriate means for their correction. It could have issued an
order generally prohibiting further preferential and unreasonable practices, leaving the parties to translate such
a generality into concreteness and to devise their own
remedies. The Commission chose to do otherwise. It
can hardly be suggested that the protection of the national interest in interstate and foreign commerce or even
the convenience of the parties would, as a matter of sensible and economic administration, limit the Commission
to such negative means of dealing with the evils revealed
on this record in one of our greatest ports. Cf. Phelps
Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313 U. S. 177, 194. Explicit
formulation of duties owed by a business subject to legal
regulation is desirable if indeed not necessary. Only thus
can it avoid the hazards of uncertainty whether its attempted compliance with an undefined requirement of
law is in fact compliance. Neither industry nor the community which it serves is benefited by the explosion of
intermittent lawsuits for determining the relative rights
2 The City of Oakland asks this Court to determine whether the
Maritime Commission properly found that § 15 of the Shipping Act
required Oakland to submit certain lease agreements for the Commission's approval. c. 451, 39 Stat. 733, Ex. Ord. No. 6166, c. 858,
49 Stat. 1987, 2016, 46 U. S. C. § 814. The Commission's order
does not appear to require such filing. If this be an inadvertent or
clerical omission, since Oakland's objection is founded on its basic
contention that it is not subject to the Shipping Act, we need not
further consider this subsidiary question.

CALIFORNIA v. UNITED STATES.
577

Opinion of the Court.

of conflicting interests. What more natural for the Commission, having found disobedience of the law against discriminatory and unreasonable practices, than to define the
outer bounds of practices that would not be unreasonable
nor discriminatory." And so the Commission fixed a
schedule of maximum free time and another schedule for
avoiding discrimination through non-compensatory
charges. It acted on authoritative information and fully
canvassed testimony in fixing the minimum charges that
would reflect cost. It was proper to choose the cost standard, because just as unreasonably long free time tends to
be parasitic on rates for other services, non-compensatory
demurrage results in the same mischief. Cf. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 305 U. S. 507,524.
Appellants' objection is that while §§ 17 and 1S specifically give the Commission rate-making power over common carriers by water,4 no such power is given over those
Booth S. S. Co. v. United States, 29 F. Supp. 221, is an object
lesson. In that case, the order of the Maritime Commission as to
the charges to be imposed after free time was in general terms. Attempted compliance with that order led to conflict, and the Commission found it necessary to undertake new proceedings and to issue
a new, more definite order.
"The following are the rate provisions in §§ 17 and 18. Section
17: "That no common carrier by water in foreign commerce shall
demand, charge, or collect any rate, fare, or charge which is unjustly
discriminatory between shippers or ports, or unjustly prejudicial to
exporters of the United States as compared with their foreign competitors. Whenever the commission finds that any such rate, fare, or
charge is demanded, charged, or collected it may alter the same to the
extent necessary to correct such unjust discrimination or prejudice
and make an order that the carrier shall discontinue demanding, charging, or collecting any such unjustly discriminatory or prejudicial rate,
fare, or charge." Section 18: "That every common carrier by water
in interstate commerce shall establish, observe, and enforce just and
reasonable rates, fares, charges, classifications, and tariffs, and just
and reasonable regulations and practices relating thereto .... Whenever the commission finds that any rate, fare, charge, classification,

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

who, like California and Oakland, are not common carriers
by water. We fully agree that no rate-making power such
as the Commission has been given over water carriers is
conferred over other persons subject to the Shipping Act.
But the order of the Commission, though it pertains to
demurrage charges, is not an exercise of conventional ratemaking. By § 17 all those who are subject to the Act are
under a duty to "establish, observe, and enforce just and
reasonable regulations and practices relating to or connected with the receiving, handling, storing, or delivering
of property." When the Commission finds a breach of
this duty, the same section authorizes it to "determine,
prescribe, and order enforced a just and reasonable regulation or practice." The withholding of rate-making
power for services other than water carriage does not
qualify the unlimited grant to the Commission of the
power to stop effectively all unjust and unreasonable
practices in receiving, handling, storing or delivering
property. Finding a wrong which it is duty-bound to
remedy, the Maritime Commission, as the expert body
established by Congress for safeguarding this specialized
aspect of the national interest, may, within the general
framework of the Shipping Act, fashion the tools for so
doing. Cf. United States Navigation Co. v. Cunard S. S.
Co., 284 U. S. 474, 487; Merchants Warehouse Co. v.
United States, 283 U. S. 501, 513. The only way to correct
the preferential and unreasonable results of non-compensatory charges was to require compensatory charges. All
that the Commission did was to translate that requirement
from a generality into dollars and cents. That the phrase
tariff, regulation, or practice, demanded, charged, collected, or observed by such carrier is unjust or unreasonable, it may determine,
prescribe, and order enforced a just and reasonable maximum rate,
fare, or charge, or a just and reasonable classification, tariff, regulation, or practice." c. 451, 39 Stat. 735, Ex. Ord. No. 6166, c. 858, 49
Stat. 1987, 2016, 46 U. S. C. § 8f7.

CALIFORNIA v. UNITED STATES.
577

Opinion of the Court.

"regulation or practice" extends to such discrimination as
that which resulted from non-compensatory demurrage
charges is amply demonstrated by the application of the
concept "practice" in comparable situations under the
Interstate Commerce Act. Adams v. Mills, 286 U. S. 397,
409: Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 305 U. S.
507, 524.
We have disposed of the only serious question raised.
The numerous other questions call for only summary
treatment.
Since Oakland and California are not common carriers
by water they are subject to the authority of the Commission only if they come within the designation "other
person subject to this Act" as defined in § 1 of the Shipping
Act. c. 451, 39 Stat. 728, c. 152, 40 Stat. 900, 46 U. S. C.
§ 801. The phrase covers "any person not included in
the term 'common carrier by water,' carrying on the business of forwarding or furnishing wharfage, dock, warehouse, or other terminal facilities in connection with a
common carrier by water." And "person" "includes corporations, partnerships, and associations . .. " We need
not waste time on useless generalities about statutory construction in order to conclude that entities other than
technical corporations, partnerships and associations are
"included" among the "persons" to whom the Shipping
Act applies if its plain purposes preclude their exclusion.
The crucial question is whether the statute, read in the
light of the circumstances that gave rise to its enactment
and for which it was designed, applies also to public
owners of wharves and piers. California and Oakland
furnished precisely the facilities subject to regulation
under the Act, and with so large a portion of the nation's
dock facilities, as Congress knew (53 Cong. Rec. 8276),
owned or controlled by public instrumentalities, it would
have defeated the very purpose for which Congress framed
the scheme for regulating waterfront terminals to exempt

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

those operated by governmental agencies. We need not
rest on inference to avoid a construction that would have
such dislocating consequences. The manager of the bill
which became the Shipping Act of 1916, speaking on the
floor of the House, left no doubt that the legislation was
designed to prevent discrimination no less by public than
by private owners. 53 Cong. Rec. 8276. And whatever
may be the limitati(,ms implied by the phrase "in connection with a common carrier by water" which modifies
the grant of jurisdiction over those furnishing "wharfage,
dock, warehouse, or other terminal facilities," there can
be no doubt that wharf storage facilities provided at shipside for cargo which has been unloaded from water carriers
are subject to regulation by the Commission. Finally,
it is too late in the day to question the power of Congress
under the Commerce Clause to regulate such an essential
part of interstate and foreign trade as the activities and
instrumentalities which were here authorized to be regulated by the Commission, whether they be the activities
and instrumentalities of private persons or of public
agencies. United States v. California, 297 U. S. 175,
184-5.
Due consideration has been given to other objections,
referring to the sufficiency of the evidence before the Commission, the adequacy of its findings, and its competence,
but they require no discussion.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I dissent. I pass the contentions of the appellants respecting the power of Congress to regulate the State's activities under consideration, the scope of the term "person" as used in the Shipping Act, and the alleged absence
of any grant of power to the Commission to fix minimum
rates for water carriers or others. This for the reason
that, in my opinion, Congress has withheld from the Coin-

CALIFORNIA v. UNITED STATES.
577

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

mission authority to fix or regulate the rates or charges
of those furnishing wharfage facilities.
The Shipping Act of 1916, in all parts here relevant, has
remained as it was originally adopted, though amended
in other respects by later legislation. In § 1,1 after defining carriers by water, which are the primary subject
of its regulatory provisions, the Act adds:
"The term 'other person subject to this Act' means any
person not included in the term 'common carrier by
water,' carrying on the business of forwarding or furnish-ing wharfage, dock, warehouse, or other terminal facilities
in connection with a common carrier by water."
Section 16 ' provides:
"That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier by
water, or other person subject to this Act, either alone or
in conjunction with any other person, directly or indirectly"First. To make or give any undue or unreasonable
preference or advantage to any particular person, locality,
or description of traffic in any respect whatsoever, or to
subject any particular person, locality, or description
of traffic to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or
disadvantage in any respect whatsoever."
[Italics
supplied.]
Section 17,' in pertinent part, provides:
"No common carrierby water in foreign commerce shall
demand, charge, or collect any rate, fare, or charge which
is unjustly discriminatory between shippers or ports, or
unjustly prejudicial to exporters of the United States as
compared with their foreign competitors. Whenever the
commission finds that any such rate, fare, or charge is demanded, charged, or collected it may alter the same to the
extent necessary to correct such unjust discrimination
146 U. S. C. 801.
2 46 U. S. C. 815.
3 46 U. S. C. 816.

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBEMST,

J., dissenting.

320 U. S.

or prejudice and make an order that the carrier shall discontinue demanding, charging, or collecting any such unjustly discriminatory or prejudicial rate, fare, or charge.
[Italics supplied.]
"Every such carrier and every other person subject to
this Act shall establish, observe, and enforce just and reasonable regulations and practices relating to or connected
with the receiving, handling, storing, or delivering of
property. Whenever the commission finds that any such
regulation or practice is unjust or unreasonable it may
determine, prescribe, and order enforced a just and reasonable regulation or practice." [Italics supplied.]
Section 18,' so far as relevant, is:
"Every common carrier by water in interstate commerce shall establish, observe, and enforce just and reasonable rates, fares, charges, classifications, and tariffs,
and just and reasonable regulations and practices relating thereto and to the issuance, form, and substance of
tickets, receipts, and bills of lading, the manner and
method of presenting, marking, packing, and delivering
property for transportation, the carrying of personal, sample, and excess baggage, the facilities for transportation,
and all other matters relating to or connected with the
receiving, handling, transporting, storing, or delivering
of property." [Italics supplied.]
The Commission concedes, as it must, that whereas the
Act definitely deals with the rates of water carriers, and
places those rates under the regulatory jurisdiction of the
Commission, it contains no such specific mandate to the
Commission concerning the rates or charges of wharfingers. It must equally be conceded that the order of the
Commission under review does establish minimum rates
and charges for services rendered by those maintaining and
operating wharves used by water carriers. In the absence of specific authority in this behalf, the Commission
turned to that portion of § 16 which prohibits not only
water carriers but other persons subject to the Act from
'146 U. S. C. 817.

CALIFORNIA v. UNITED STATES.
577

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

granting preferences or practicing discrimination, and that
portion of § 17 which comprehends both water carriers and
other persons subject to the Act and enjoins just and reasonable regulations and practices respecting receiving,
handling, storage or delivery of property.
The oversimplified argument in support of this position
is that a rate or charge is, in a broad sense, a regulation or
practice. The difficulty with the argument is that, in the
Interstate Commerce Act, and elsewhere, Congress has always sharply distinguished, as it did in the present Act, between rates and charges on the one hand, and regulations
and practices on the other. The legislative history of the
Shipping Act indicates that Congress well understood that
states and municipalities, in order to encourage the flow
of commerce through their ports, had established public
wharves and that Congress intended that, as respects such
public facilities, preferences and discriminations should
not be permitted. But there is nothing in the legislative
history to indicate that, in the teeth of the plain words of
the statute as enacted, Congress had in mind conferring
power to regulate the rates and charges for such publicly
owned facilities; much less that if a state or its agency
deemed it advisable and in the public interest to operate
such facilities at low rates, to encourage the flow of commerce through its ports, the Commission could put a floor
under its rates and compel it in effect to aid competing private enterprise.
Little need be, or can be, added to the clearly expressed
words of the statute. It speaks for itself, and I think the
court ought not to permit the use of a prohibition against
practices to be availed of to write additional provisions
into the section dealing with rates and charges.
The attempt to bolster this process, on the part of the
Commission, by reference to the decisions of this court
seems to me futile. The Commission and the Government rely principally upon Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
ROBERTS,

J, dissenting.

320 U. S.

United States, 305 U. S. 507. That case obviously not
only fails to support the order but seems to me to be an
authority against it. The case arose under the Interstate
Commerce Act. It dealt with a practice of carriers which
was to maintain warehouses in respect of which low cost
storage was afforded to persons who would ship over the
carrier's lines. In essence the practice of warehousing
at such low rates operated as a rebate or discrimination
in the carrier's transportation rate favoring any shipper
who would use the carrier's lines and disfavoring those who
would not, or could not, do so. Here we are not concerned
with water carriers' rates, fares or charges. The Commission's order is directed at services rendered by privately
and publicly owned wharves, applicable to all seeking to
avail themselves of the services which are proffered to all
alike. If any discrimination by the appellants as between
shippers were pointed out it may well be that the Commission might order the discontinuance of such discrimination. That is not this case. The Commission purports
to order the discontinuance of a discrimination but, in
reality, orders a rise in the level of rates applicable without discrimination to all those who can and do use the
proffered services. Its order is a thinly veiled attempt to
cloak a rate order under the guise of a regulation. I think
it plain that Congress granted no such power.
I would reverse the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, and MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY join in this dissent.

