540

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

320 U. S.

They could calculate appeal periods from the date of that
entry. Now they must risk the possibility that at an
undeterminable later date one of the parties will convince
the court that a formal order should be entered and that
the time for appeal will start from that date. No reason of law or policy suggests itself in support of such
uncertainty.
Judged by the fixed and simple practice of the court
below in entering its final judgments, this appeal cannot
be considered timely.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join
in this dissent.
WALTON, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. SOUTHERN
PACKAGE CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 159. Argued December 17, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.
A night watchman for a manufacturing plant which shipped a substantial portion of its product in interstate commerce, held covered
by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as one engaged in an
"occupation necessary to the production" of goods for interstate
commerce. P. 542.
194 Miss. 573, 11 So. 2d 912, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 726, to review the reversal of a judgment for the petitioner in a suit to recover overtime compensation and liquidated damages under the Fair Labor
Standards Act.

Mr. Chas. F. Engle submitted for petitioner.
Mrs. Elizabeth Hulen, with whom Messrs. William
H. Watkins and P. H. Eager, Jr. were on the brief, for
respondent.
By special leave of Court, Mr. Robert L. Stern, with
whom Solicitor General Fahy, Messrs. Douglas B. Maggs,

WALTON v. SOUTHERN PACKAGE CORP. 541
540

Opinion of the Court.

Irving J. Levy, and Joseph I. Nachman, and Miss Bessie
Margolin were on the brief, for the Administrator of the
Wage and Hour Division, U. S. Department of Labor, as
amicus curiae, urging reversal.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit brought against the respondent by an
employee, Fred Walton, in a Mississippi state court to
recover overtime compensation and liquidated damages
as authorized by ยง 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act
of 1938.1 Walton died before the case was tried and the
suit was revived by his administratrix, the petitioner here.
A judgment for the petitioner rendered by the trial court
was reversed by the Mississippi Supreme Court' on the
ground that Walton had not been employed in the production of goods for interstate commerce or in "any process or occupation necessary to the production thereof,"'
and therefore was not covered by the Act. We granted
certiorari because this interpretation of the Act raised a
federal question of importance and because of the claim
by petitioner that the interpretation was in conflict with
our decision in A. B. Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S.
517.
The case was tried on an agreed statement of facts
which in brief summary showed:
The respondent operated a plant in Mississippi in
which veneer was manufactured from logs. A substantial portion of the manufactured product was destined
for shipment in interstate commerce. Walton worked
at the plant as a night watchman. His work week ex152 Stat. 1069; U. S. C. Title 29, ยง 216 (b).
2 194 Miss. 573, 11 So. 2d 912.
OSection 3 (j) of the Act provides that, "An employee shall be
deemed to have been engaged in the production of goods if such
employee was employed in producing . . . such goods, or in any
process or occupation necessary to the production thereof." 52 Stat.
1061; U. S. C. Title 29, ยง 203 (j).

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

ceeded the maximum hours prescribed by the Fair Labor
Standards Act during the period in question. His duties
were to make hourly rounds of the plant, punch the
nightwatchman's clocks at various stations on the plant,
and report any fires and trespassers. The fire insurance
company which insured the plant's buildings, machinery,
and fixtures required respondent to have a night watchman as a condition to granting reduced premium rates.
Respondent's desire to obtain these reduced rates was
the primary reason why Walton was employed. The
plant was not operated at night while Walton was on duty
and he did not physically assist in the manufacture or
shipment of veneer.
In holding that these facts fell short of proving that
Walton's work was "necessary to the production" of
respondent's goods, the Mississippi Supreme Court particularly emphasized that Walton had no other duties
to perform in addition to his regular duties as a night
watchman; that he engaged in no manual activities connected with production; that he was not specially employed to protect goods assembled for manufacture or
awaiting shipment in interstate commerce; and that no
goods were manufactured during the hours he was on
guard. Under our decision in the Kirschbaum case,
supra,no one of these facts standing alone, nor all of them
together, can support the Court's conclusion that the
nature of Walton's employment left him without the Act's
protection. His duty was to aid in protecting the building, machinery, and equipment from injury or destruction
by fire or trespass. The very fact that a fire insurance
company was willing to reduce its premiums upon conditions that a night watchman be kept on guard is evidence that a watchman would make a valuable contribution to the continuous production of respondent's goods.
"The maintenance of a safe, habitable building is indispensable to that activity." A. B. Kirschbaum Co. v.
Walling, supra, 524. The relationship of Walton's employment to production was therefore not "tenuous" but

UNITED STATES v. LAUDANI.
540

Counsel for Parties.

had that "close and immediate tie with the process of
production for commerce" which brought him within the
coverage of the Act. Ibid., 525.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the Mississippi Supreme Court for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, considering himself bound

by

the decision in Kirschbaum v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517,
concurs in the result.

UNITED STATES v. LAUDANI.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 71. Argued December 16, 1943.-Decided January 3, 1944.
The Kickback Act of June 13, 1934, which provides that "whoever"
shall induce any person employed on any federally financed work "to
give up any part of the compensation to which he is entitled under
his contract of employment, by force, intimidation, threat of procuring dismissal from such employment, or by any other manner whatsoever," shall be subject to the penalty therein prescribed, held
applicable to a company foreman who had authority to hire and discharge subordinates whom he, on his own behalf and for his own
benefit, compelled to surrender a portion of their wages. P. 547.
134 F. 2d 847, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 720, to review the reversal of a conviction of violation of the federal Kickback Act.

Mr. Chester T. Lane, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, and
Messrs. Edward G. Jennings, W. Marvin Smith, Douglas
B. Maggs, and Irving J. Levy were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. Harold Simandl submitted for respondent.

