228

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U. S.

Consolidated Gas Corp., 300 U. S. 55, 76-7; Pattersonv.
Stanolind Oil & Gas Co., 305 U. S. 376, 379, and cases
cited. On this appeal, absent from the record any operative order implementing Act No. 157, we cannot say that
the application of the Act can be enjoined as invalid on
its face, for we cannot say that no order could be made by
the Commissioner which would apportion the production
and distribute the costs of production and of the apportionment in a manner which would be consonant both with
the requirements of the statute and the Federal Constitution, compare Pattersonv. Stanolind Oil & Gas Co., supra,
with Thompson v. Consolidated Gas Corp., supra. It
will be time enough to consider the constitutionality of
any particular apportionment and distribution of costs
when we have before us the specific provisions of an order
directing them which has been subjected to the scrutiny
of the state court. See BandiniPetroleum Co. v. Superior
Court, supra.
The appeal will be dismissed for want of a properly
presented substantial federal question.
So ordered.
MEREDITH ET AL. v. WINTER HAVEN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 42. Argued October 22, 1943.-Decided November 8, 1943.
1. Where a federal court has jurisdiction of a case, though solely by
diversity of citizenship, the difficulties of ascertaining what the state
courts may thereafter determine the state law to be do not in themselves afford a sufficient ground for declining to exercise the jurisdiction. P. 234.
So held in respect of a suit instituted in a federal district court in
Florida, the decision of which was concerned solely with the extent
of the liability of a Florida municipality upon its refunding bonds.
2. In the absence of some recognized public policy or defined principle
guiding the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred, which would in

MEREDITH v. WINTER HAVEN.
228

Opinion of the Court.

exceptional cases warrant its non-exercise, it has from the first been
deemed to be the duty of the federal courts, if their jurisdiction is
properly invoked, to decide questions of state law whenever necessary
to the rendition of judgment. When such exceptional circumstances
are not present, denial of that opportunity by the federal courts,
merely because the answers to the questions of state law are difficult
or uncertain or have not yet been given by the highest court of the
State, would thwart the purpose of the jurisdictional act. P. 234.
134 F. 2d 202, reversed.

CmIrMOaRI, 319 U. S. 736, to review a judgment which,
in a suit based on diversity of citizenship, directed dismissal without prejudice to the plaintiff's right to proceed

in the state court.
Messrs. D. C. Hull and John L. Graham, with whom
Messrs. Erskine W. Landis and J. Compton French were

on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Giles J. Pattersonfor respondents.
MR. CHMF JUSTICE STo E delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners sought a judgment granting equitable relief

in the District Court below, whose jurisdiction rested
solely on diversity of citizenship. The question is
whether the Circuit Court of Appeals, on appeal from the
judgment of the District Court, rightly declined to exercise its jurisdiction on the ground that decision of the
case on the merits turned on questions of Florida constitutional and statutory law which the decisions of the Florida
courts had left in a state of uncertainty.

Petitioners brought this suit in the District Court for
Southern Florida, alleging by their bill of complaint that
they are owners and holders of General Refunding Bonds
issued in 1933 by respondent, the City of Winter Haven,

Florida; that by their terms the bonds are callable by the
city on any interest date on tender of their principal

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

amount and accrued interest, including a specified amount
(depending on the date of call) of the interest payable
upon the deferred-interest coupons attached to the bonds;
that the city is about to call and retire the bonds without
providing for payment of the deferred-interest coupons.
The bill of complaint prayed a declaration that this could
not lawfully be done and an injunction restraining the
city from doing it.
In the event that the court should determine that the
obligation of the deferred-interest coupons is unenforceable, then it was prayed that the court declare that petitioners are entitled to enforce the obligation for payment, principal and interest, of the amount of the original
bonded indebtedness of the city which was refunded by
the General Refunding Bonds now held by petitioners,
and that the court enjoin the city and its officials, respondents here, from failing or refusing to pay the interest due
on such refunded bonds, as provided by the resolution of
the city commissioners authorizing the issue and sale of
the General Refunding Bonds in 1933*
The District Court granted respondents' motion to
dismiss the complaint on the grounds that it failed to
state a cause of action and that the questions of law
involved had been determined adversely to petitioners by
the Supreme Court of Florida. The Court of Appeals,
without passing on the merits, reversed and directed that
the cause be dismissed without prejudice to petitioners'
right to proceed in the state courts to secure a determination of the questions of state law involved. 134 F.
2d 202.
The Court of Appeals agreed with petitioners that the
bill of complaint presented a justiciable controversy requiring determination, that they were entitled to a judgment declaring the law of Florida with respect to the
validity of the deferred-interest coupons, and that if
petitioners' contentions were sustained they were entitled

MEREDITH v. WINTER HAVEN.
228

Opinion of the Court.

to a declaration in their favor and an injunction implementing the declaration. But upon an examination of
the Florida decisions the court concluded that the applicable law of Florida was not clearly settled and stable,
but was quite the contrary, citing Sullivan v. Tampa,
101 Fla. 298, 134 So. 211; Columbia County Commissioners v. King, 13 Fla. 451; State ex rel. Nuveen v. Greet,
88 Fla. 249, 102 So. 739; Humphreys v. State ex rel. Palm
Beach Co., 108 Fla. 92,145 So. 858; Alta-Cliff Co. v. Spurway, 113 Fla. 633, 152 So. 731; Lee v. Bond-Howell Lumber Co., 123 Fla. 202,166 So. 733; and Andrews v. Winter
Haven, 148 Fla. 144, 3 So. 2d 805. It expressed doubt as
to what the Florida law, applicable to the facts presented,
now is or will be declared to be, and in view of this uncertainty, since no federal question was presented and the
jurisdiction was invoked solely on grounds of diversity
of citizenship, it thought that petitioners should be required to proceed in the state courts.
Although the opinion below refers to the suit as one for
a declaratory judgment, the declaration of rights prayed,
as is usually the case in suits for an injunction, is an indispensable prerequisite to the award of one or the other of
the forms of equitable relief which petitioners seek in the
alternative. Hence, so far as we are concerned with the
necessity and propriety of a determination by a federal
court of questions of state law, the case does not differ
from an ordinary equity suit in which, both before and
since Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, federal courts
have been called upon to decide state questions in order
to render a judgment.
The facts as presented by the amended bill of complaint
and the motion to dismiss raise two issues of state law, one
and possibly both of which must be decided if petitioners
are to have the benefit which they seek of the jurisdiction
conferred on district courts in diversity cases. The first
question arises from the fact that the Refunding Bonds of

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

1933 were issued without a referendum to the freehold
voters of the city. Article IX, ยง 6 of the Florida constitution provides that municipalities "shall have power to
issue bonds only after the same shall have been approved
by a majority of the votes cast in an election," in which
a majority of the freeholders of the municipality shall
participate, but dispenses with this requirement in the
case of "refunding" bonds. The question is whether,
under the applicable decisions of the Florida courts, the
provision for deferred-interest coupons could rightly be
included in the obligation of the Refunding Bonds of 1933
without a referendum. If it be decided that the provision
could not be included and that the coupons are invalid, the
second question is whether petitioners, as holders of
refunding bonds, are entitled, under ยง 20 of the resolution
of the city commissioners authorizing the Refunding
Bond issue, to recover the principal and interest of an
equivalent amount of the bonds refunded. This question,
unlike the first, so far as appears, has not been passed upon
by the Florida courts.
Several decisions of the Supreme Court of Florida have
declared that where bonds tobe refunded contain no provision for deferred-interest coupons, refunding bonds
containing such coupons would impose "new and additional or more burdensome terms" (Outman v. Cone, 141
Fla. 196, 199, 192 So. 611, 613) which may not be included
in refunding bonds unless they are approved by referendum in accordance with Article IX, ยง 6. Outman v.
1"Section

20. That if any clause, section, paragraph or provision

of this resolution or of the General Refunding Bonds hereby authorized
be declared unenforcible by any Court of final jurisdiction, it shall
not affect or invalidate any remainder thereof, and if any of the bonds
hereby authorized be adjudged illegal or unenforcible in whole or in
part, the holders thereof shall be entitled to assume the position of
holders of a like amount of the indebtedness hereby provided to be
refunded and as such enforce their claim for payment."

MEREDITH v. WINTER HAVEN.
228

Opinion of the Court.

Cone, supra;Taylor v. Williams, 142 Fla. 402, 195 So. 175;
Andrews v. Winter Haven, supra.
As appears from the amended bill of complaint, after the
present suit was begun the Supreme Court of Florida decided the case of Andrews v. Winter Haven, supra. This
case involved the same issue of Refunding Bonds as is
here in question. The Florida court held that the deferredinterest coupons are invalid; that the purported obligation of the invalid coupons is severable from the obligations to pay the principal of the bonds and current interest
on the other coupons, which obligations are valid and enforceable; and that the bonds are subject to call upon
tender of the stipulated principal and interest without
including any amount purporting to be payable on the
deferred-interest coupons.
It is the contention of petitioners that the Andrews
case is not controlling because it, as well as Outman v.
Cone, supra,and Taylor v. Williams, supra, which it cited
and followed, is inconsistent with earlier decisions of the
Supreme Court of Florida antedating the Refunding
Bonds of 1933, particularly Sullivan v. Tampa, supra;
State v. Miami, 103 Fla. 54, 137 So. 261; State v. Special
Tax School District, 107 Fla. 93, 144 So. 356; Bay County
v. State, 116 Fla. 656, 157 So. 1; State v. Citrus County,
116 Fla. 676, 157 So. 4; State v. Sarasota County, 118
Fla. 629, 159 So. 797. Petitioners also insist that, in
deciding the Andrews case, the attention of the Supreme
Court of Florida was not directed to the doctrine which it
had earlier announced in Columbia County Commissioner8v. King, upra,and in State ex rel. Nuveen v. Greer,
supra, that by the law of Florida a contract is governed
by the laws declared at the time the contract was made,
and that consequently the court did not apply the doctrine. And finally it is said that the weight of the Outman and Andrews cases as precedents is impaired by
the fact that although they appear on the record to be

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

adversary litigations they were not in fact vigorously
contested.
While the rulings of the Supreme Court of Florida in the
Andrews case must be taken as controlling here unless it
can be said with some assurance that the Florida Supreme
Court will not follow them in the future, see Wichita
Royalty Co. v. City National Bank, 306 U. S. 103, 107;
Fidelity Trust Co. v. Field, 311 U. S. 169,177-178; West v.
American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 311 U. S. 223, 236,
we assume, as the Court of Appeals has indicated, that
the Supreme Court of the State may modify or even set
them aside in future decisions. But we are of opinion
that the difficulties of ascertaining what the state courts
may hereafter determine the state law to be do not in themselves afford a sufficient ground for a federal court to decline to exercise its jurisdiction to decide a case which is
properly brought to it for decision.
The diversity jurisdiction was not conferred for, the
benefit of the federal courts or t6 serve their convenience.
Its purpose was generally to afford to suitors an opportunity in such cases, at their option, to assert their rights
in the federal rather than in the state courts. In the absence of some recognized public policy or defined principle
guiding the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred, which
would in exceptional cases warrant its non-exercise, it has
from the first been deemed to be the duty of the federal
courts, if their jurisdiction is properly invoked, to decide
questions of state law whenever necessary to the rendition
of a judgment. Commonwealth Trust Co. v. Bradford,
297 U. S. 613, 618; Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
270 U. S. 378, 387; Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260
U. S. 226, 234-235; McClellan v. Carland,217 U. S. 268,
281-282. When such exceptional circumstances are not
present, denial of that opportunity by the federal courts
merely because the answers to the questions of state law
are difficult or uncertain or have not yet been given by

MEREDITH v. WINTER HAVEN.
228

Opinion of the Court.

the highest court of the state, would thwart the purpose of
the jurisdictional act.
The exceptions relate to the discretionary powers of
courts of equity. An appeal to the equity jurisdiction
conferred on federal district courts is an appeal to the
sound discretion which guides the determinations of
courts of equity. Beal v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., 312
U. S. 45, 50. Exercise of that discretion by those, as well
as by other courts having equity powers, may require
them to withhold their relief in furtherance of a recognized,
defined public policy. Di Giovanni v. Camden Insurance Assn., 296 U. S. 64, 73, and cases cited. It is for
this reason that a federal court having jurisdiction of the
cause may decline to interfere with state criminal prosecutions except when moved by most urgent considerations, Spielman Motor Co. v. Dodge, 295 U. S. 89, 95; Beal
v. Missouri Pacific R. Co., supra, 49-51; Douglas v. Jeannette, 319 U. S. 157; or with the collection of state taxes or
with the fiscal affairs of the state, Matthews v. Rodgers, 284
U. S. 521; Stratton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 284
U. S. 530; GreatLakes Dredge & Dock Co. v. Huffman, 319
U. S. 293; or with the state administrative function of prescribing the local rates of public utilities, Central Kentucky Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 290 U. S. 264, 271
et seq. and cases cited; or to interfere, by appointing a
receiver, with the liquidation of an insolvent state bank
by a state administrative officer, where there is no contention that the interests of creditors and stockholders will
not be adequately protected, Pennsylvania v. Williams,
294 U. S. 176; Gordon v. Ominsky, 294 U. S. 186; Gordon
v. Washington, 295 U. S. 30; cf. Kelleam v. Maryland Casualty Co., 312 U. S. 377, 381. Similarly it may refuse to
appraise or shape domestic policy of the state governing
its administrative agencies. Railroad Commission v.
Rowan & Nichols Oil Co., 311 U. S. 570; Burford v. Sun Oil
Co., 319 U. S. 315. And it may of course decline to ex-

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

ercise the equity jurisdiction conferred on it as a federal
court when the plaintiff fails to establish a cause of action.
Cavanaugh v. Looney, 248 U. S. 453; Gilchrist v. InterboroughRapid Transit Co., 279 U. S. 159. So too a federal
court, adhering to the salutary policy of refraining from
the unnecessary decision of constitutional questions, may
stay proceedings before it, to enable the parties to litigate
first in the state courts questions of state law, decision
of which is preliminary to, and may render unnecessary,
decision of the constitutional questions presented. Railroad Commission v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496; cf.
Thompson v. Magnolia Petroleum Co., 309 U. S. 478.
It is the court's duty to do so when a suit is pending in
the state courts, where the state questions can be conveniently and authoritatively answered, at least where
the parties to the federal court action are not strangers
to the state action. Chicago v. Fieldcrest Dairies, 316
U. S. 168. In thus declining to exercise their jurisdiction
to enforce rights arising under state laws, federal courts
are following the same principles which traditionally have
moved them, because of like considerations of policy, to
refuse to give an extraordinary remedy for the protection
of federal rights. United States ex rel. Greathouse v.
Dern, 289 U. S. 352,359-361; see VirginianRy. Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515, 551-552 and cases cited; cf.
Securities & Exchange Comm'n v. United States Realty
Co., 310 U. S. 434,455 et seq.
But none of these considerations, nor any similar one,
is present here. Congress having adopted the policy of
opening the federal courts to suitors in all diversity cases
involving the jurisdictional amount, we can discern in
its action no recognition of a policy which would exclude
cases from the jurisdiction merely because they involve
state law or because the law is uncertain or difficult to
determine. The decision of this case is concerned solely
with the extent of the liability of the city on its Refund-

MEREDITH v. WINTER HAVEN.
228

Opinion of the Court.

ing Bonds. Decision here does not require the federal
court to determine or shape state policy governing administrative agencies. It entails no interference with
such agencies or with the state courts. No litigation is
pending in the state courts in which the questions here
presented could be decided. We are pointed to no public
policy or interest which would be served by withholding
from petitioners the benefit of the jurisdiction which Congress has created with the purpose that it should be
availed of and exercised subject only to such limitations as
traditionally justify courts in declining to exercise the jurisdiction which they possess. To remit the parties to the
state courts is to delay further the disposition of the litigation which has been pending for more than two years
and which is now ready for decision. It is to penalize
petitioners for resorting to a jurisdiction which they were
entitled to invoke, in the absence of any special circumstances which would warrant a refusal to exercise it.
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, supra,did not free the federal
courts from the duty of deciding questions of state law
in diversity cases. Instead it placed on them a greater
responsibility for determining and applying state laws
in all cases within their jurisdiction in which federal law
does not govern. Accepting this responsibility, as was
its duty, this Court has not hesitated to decide questions
of state law when necessary for the disposition of a case
brought to it for decision, although the highest court of
the state had not answered them, the answers were difficult, and the character of the answers which the highest
state courts might ultimately give remained uncertain.
Wichita Royalty Co. v. City National Bank, upra; West
v. American Telephone & Telegraph Co., supra, 236-237;
Fidelity Trust Co. v. Field, supra, 177-180; Siz Companies v. Joint Highway District, 311 U. S. 180, 188;
Stoner v. New York Life Ins. Co., 311 U. S. 464; Palmerv.
Hoffman, 318 U. S. 109, 116-118. Even though our de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U. S.

cisions could not finally settle the questions of state law

involved, they did adjudicate the rights of the parties
with the aid of such light as was afforded by the materials
for decision at hand, and in accordance with the applicable
principles for determining state law. In this case, as in
those, it being within the jurisdiction conferred on the federal courts by Congress, we think the plaintiffs, petitioners
here, were entitled to have such an adjudication.
The judgment will be reversed and the cause remanded
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further proceedings in
conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON are of the
opinion that the judgment should be affirmed for the reasons stated in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
134 F. 2d 202.

BELL v. PREFERRED LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THU
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 17. Argued October 12, 13, 1943.-Decided November 8, 1943.
1. Where both actual and punitive damages are recoverable under a
complaint invoking the jurisdiction of the federal district court on
the ground of diversity of citizenship, each must be considered to the
extent claimed in determining whether the jurisdictional amount is
involved. P. 240.
2. A complaint in a federal district court, invoking jurisdiction on the
ground of diversity of citizenship, alleged that the plaintiff had been
induced to purchase a certificate of insurance through fraudulent
misrepresentations by the defendants' agent as to the value, and
claimed $200,000 as actual and punitive damages. The record
showed that the plaintiff had paid $202.35 on the certificate, which
had a maximum potential value of $1,000. Held:
(1) Whether the decision be controlled by the law of Alabama,
where the certificate was issued and mailed, or by the law of South

