OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Syllabus.

320 U. S.

Switchmen's case, we believe that Congress left the socalled jurisdictional controversies between unions to agencies or tribunals other than the courts. We see no reason
for differentiating this jurisdictional dispute from the
others. Whether different considerations would be applicable in case an employee were asserting that the Act
gave him the privilege of choosing his own representative
for the prosecution of his claims is not before us.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

and MR.

JUSTICE REED are of

the

view that the Court should entertain jurisdiction of the
present controversies for the reasons set out in the dissent
in Switchmen's Union v. NationalMediation Board, ante,
p. 307.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION v.
C. M. JOINER LEASING CORPORATION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 24. Argued October 18, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.
1. The transactions involved in this case were not simply sales and
assignments of interests in land, but by the nature of the offers were
within the terms "investment contracts" and "any interest cr
instrument commonly known as a 'security,'" and were therefore
sales of "securities" within the meaning of § 2 (1) of the Securities
Act of 1933. P. 351.
2. The ejusdem generis rule and the maxim expressio wiius e:;'
exclusio alterius are subordinate to the doctrine that courts will
construe the details of an Act in conformity with its dominating
general purpose, will read text in the light of context, and, so far as
the meanings of the words fairly permit, will interpret the text so
as to carry out in particular caseb the generally expressed legislative
policy. P. 350.

S. E. C. v. JOINER CORP.
344

Opinion of the Court.

3. The transactions were not beyond the scope of the Act merely because the offerings were of leases and assignments which under state
law conveyed interests in real estate. P. 352.
4. In a civil action a preponderance of the evidence is sufficient to
establish that what were being sold were "securities" under the Act.
P. 355.
133 F..2d 241, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 755, to review the affirmance of a
judgment denying an injunction in a suit instituted by the
Commission to restrain violations of the Securities Act of
1933.
Mr. John F. Davis, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Messrs. Richard S. Salant, Milton V. Freeman, and
Louis Loss were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. David A. Frank for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Securities and Exchange Commission brought this
action in District Court to restrain respondents from further violations of §§ 5 (a) and 17 (a) (2) and (3) of the
Securities Act of 1933.1 The District Court denied relief
and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed upon a construction of the statute which excludes from its operation
all trading in oil and gas leases. 133 F. 2d 241. As this
presents a question important to the administration of the
Act we granted certiorari.2
Respondents and one Johnson, a defendant against
whom a decree was taken by consent, engaged in a campaign to sell assignments of oil leases. The underlying
leases, acreage from which was being sold, are not in the
record. They required, as appears from the assignments,
annual rental in case of delayed drilling of $1 per year.
148 Stat. 74, 15 U. S. C. § 77e (a) and § 77q (a), (2), (3).
2318

U. S. 755.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

It also seems that these leases were granted by the landowners on an agreement that a test well would be drilled
by the lessees. One Anthony blocked up leases on about
4,700 acres of land in McCulloch County, Texas, in consideration of drilling a test well. Defendant Joiner testified that he acquired 3,002 of these acres for "practically
nothing except to drill a well." Anthony was a driller
and agreed to do the drilling which the Joiner Company
undertook to finance, expecting to raise most of the funds
for this purpose from the resale of small parcels of acreage. The sales campaign was by mail addressed to upwards of 1,000 prospects in widely scattered parts of the
country and actual purchasers, about fifty in number, were
located in at least eighteen states and the District of
Columbia. Leasehold subdivisions offered never exceeded twenty acres and usually covered two and a half
to five acres. The prices ranged from $5 to $15 per acre.
The largest single purchase shown by the record was $100,
and the great majority of purchases amounted to $25 or
less. All buyers were given the opportunity to pay these
sums in installments, and some did so.
The sales literature nowhere mentioned drilling conditions which the purchaser would meet or costs which he
would incur if he attempted to develop his own acreage.
On the other hand, it assured the prospect that the Joiner
Company was engaged in and would complete the drilling
of a test well so located as to test the oil-producing possibilities of the offered leaseholds. The leases were offered
on these terms: "You may have ten acres around one or
both wells at $5 per acre cash payable by August 1st, 1941
and $5 per acre additional payable November 1st, 1941 or
thirty days after both wells are completed." Other language in the advertising literature emphasized the character of the purchase as an investment and as a participation
in an enterprise.8
8

The following are extracts from letters signed by the Joiner Company and by Joiner: "We are pleased to report our Concho County

S. E. C. v. JOINER CORP.
344

347

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court made findings of what amounted to
fraud, and the Circuit Court of Appeals approved, saying, "the evidence would justify stronger findings of
fraud."' However, both courts refused injunction bewell drilling at approximately 2510 feet in a very good formation.
We are sending out 800 feet of 8'h inch casing to be run in the McCulloch County well tomorrow. Both wells should be completed
during next month ... This offer goes to you who now have a lease
around one or both of these locations, and also to you who have at
some time invested in a lease or leases around some well that the C. M.
Joiner Interests have drilled. . . we are submitting this proposition
to you in language that will appeal only to business people who are
interested in making an investment where they have a good chance
for splendid returns on the investment." "There has nothing happened to either of these wells that would lessen the prospects for
the opening of a new oil field ....

We feel that if we are to get

the law of average that one or both these wells should be producers.
I know you would like the thrill that comes to those owning a lease
around a producing well.... ifyou send in an order for twenty
acres . . . you will get ten acres Free in the next block of acreage

we drill which is most likely to be in Concho County, Texas. You
will really be in the oil business." "Remember, if you do not make
money on your investment it will be impossible for us to make money.
....Fortunes made in oil go to those who invest. We believe you
should invest here, and now I"
There is also on the circulars and selling letters the following statement:
"Because these securities are believed exempted from registration
they have not been registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission; but such exemption, if available, does not indicate that the
Securities have been either approved or disapproved by the Commistion or that the Commission has considered the accuracy or completeness of the statements in this communication."
The origin of this is uncertain from the evidence. Joiner says he
"got it" from the Commission. What weight, if any, should be given
under the circumstances to this characterization of what was being
sold as "securities" is not clear. They had to be securities to be exempt securities under the Act. 15 U. S. C. §77c.
' The nature of the misrepretentations is not material to the question here. They related generally to the location of the properties in
respect of producing territory.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

cause, as the Court of Appeals stated, it could "find simply
sales and assignments of legal and legitimate oil and gas
leases, i. e., sales of interests in land." It was thought that
these assignments could not be proved to be "securities" or
"investment contracts" under § 2 (1) of the Act.
Undisputed facts seem to us, however, to establish the
conclusion that defendants were not, as a practical matter,
offering naked leasehold rights. Had the offer mailed by
defendants omitted the economic inducements of the proposed and promised exploration well, it would have been
a quite different proposition. Purchasers then would
have been left to their own devices for realizing upon their
rights. They would have anticipated waiting an indefinite
time, paying delayed drilling rental meanwhile until some
chance exploration proved or disproved the productivity
of their acres. Their alternative would have been to test
their own leases at a cost of $5,000 or more per well.'
But defendants offered no such dismal prospect. Their
proposition was to sell documents which offered the purchaser a chance, without undue delay or additional cost,
of sharing in discovery values which might follow a current exploration enterprise. The drilling of this well was
not an unconnected or uncontrolled phenomenon to which
salesmen pointed merely to show the possibilities of the offered leases. The exploration enterprise was woven into
these leaseholds, in both an economic and a legal sense;
the undertaking to drill a well runs through the whole
transaction as the thread on which everybody's beads were
strung. An agreement to drill formed the consideration
upon which Anthony was able to collect leases on 4,700
acres. It was in return for assumption of this agreement
'Joiner's well was to cost over $5,000. The estimated average cost
of drilling wells in West Central Texas is about S10,000.' See table
reproduced in House Hearings on H. Res. 290 and H. R. 7372, 76th
Cong., 3d Sess. (1939) Pt. I, p. 350.

S. E. C. v. JOINER CORP.
344

Opinion of the Court.

that Joiner got 3,002 of the acres, leaving Anthony about
1,700 acres for his trouble. And it was his undertaking
to drill the well which enabled Joiner to finance it by the
sale of acreage. By selling from 1,000 to 2,000 acres at
from $5 to $15 per acre, he could fulfill his obligation to
drill the well, recoup his incidental expenses and those
of the selling intermediaries, and have a thousand acres
left for the gamble, with no investment of his own; and if
he sold more, he would have a present profit. Without
the drilling of the well, no one's leases had any value, and
except for that undertaking they had been obtained at
no substantial cost. The well was necessary not only to
fulfill the hopes of purchasers but apparently even to
avoid forfeiture of their leases.
Whether, as the dissenting Judge below suggests, the
assignee acquired a legal right to compel the drilling of
the test well is a question of state law which we find it unnecessary to determine. The terms of the offering as
quoted above, either by itself or when read in connection
with the agreement to drill as consideration for the original leases, might be taken to embody an implied agreement to complete the wells. But at any rate, the acceptance of the offer quoted made a contract in which payments
were timed and contingent upon completion of the well
and therefore a form of investment contract in which the
purchaser was paying both for a lease and for a development project.
It is clear that an economic interest in this well-drilling
undertaking was what brought into being the instruments
that defendants were selling and gave to the instruments
most of their value and all of their lure. The trading in
these documents had all the evils inherent in the securities
t'ansactions which it was the aim of the Securities Act
to end.

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

It is urged that the definition of "security" which controls the scope of this Act ' falls short of including these
transactions. Respondents invoke the "ejusdem generis
rule" to constrict the more general terms substantially to
the specific terms which they follow. And they invoke the
ancient maxim "expressio unius est exclusio alterius" to
exclude sales of leasehold subdivisions by the acre because
the statute expressly includes sales of leasehold subdivisions by undivided shares.
Some rules of statutory construction come down to us
from sources that were hostile toward the legislative
process itself and thought it generally wise to restrict the
operation of an act to its narrowest permissible compass.'
However well these rules may serve at times to aid in deciphering legislative intent, they long have been subordinated to the doctrine that courts will construe the details
of an act in conformity with its dominating general pur6Section 2 (1) of the Act, 15 U. S. C. § 7T (1), provides:
"The term 'security' means any note, stock, treasury stock, bond,
debenture, evidence of indebtedness, certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agreement, collateral-trust certificate, preorganization certificate or subscription, transferable share, investment
contract, voting-trust certificate, certificate of deposit for a security,
fractional undivided interest in oil, gas, or other mineral rights, or, in
general, any interest or instrument .commonly known as a 'security,'
or any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim
certificate for, receipt for, guarantee of, or warrant or right to subscribe

to or purchase, any of the foregoing."
7In the first edition of Statutes and Statutory Construction by
Sutherland he no doubt expressed the impression gleaned from extensive
reading of cases when he wrote in the preface (1890): "The natural
tendency and growth of the law is towards system and towards certainty, towards modes of operation at once practical and just, by the
process of its intelligent judicial administration; but this process is impaired by overwork and legislative interference." In the third edition
(1943) Horack observes in the preface: "The third edition reflects the
growing acceptance of statutes as a creative element in the law rather
than, as Sutherland suggested in the first edition, as 'legislative
interference'."

S. E. C. v. JOINER CORP.
344

Opinion of the Court.

pose, will read text in the light of context and will interpret
the text so far as the meaning of the words fairly permits
so as to carry out in particular cases the generally expressed legislative policy.8
In the Securities Act the term "security" was defined to
include by name or description many documents in which
there is common trading for speculation or investment.
Some, such as notes, bonds, and stocks, are pretty much
standardized and the name alone carries well-settled
meaning. Others are of more variable character and were
necessarily designated by more descriptive terms, such as
"transferable share," "investment contract," and "in general any interest or instrument commonly known as a
security." We cannot read out of the statute these general descriptive designations merely because more specific
ones have been used to reach some kinds of documents.
Instruments may be included within any of these definitions, as matter of law, if on their face they answer to the
name or description. However, the reach of the Act does
not stop with the obvious and commonplace. Novel, uncommon, or irregular devices, whatever they appear to be,
are also reached if it be proved as matter of fact that they
were widely offered or dealt in under terms or courses of
dealing which established their character in commerce as
"investment contracts," or as "any interest or instrument
commonly known as a 'security.'" The proof here seems
clear that these defendants' offers brought their instruments within these terms.

IThis Court has refused to follow the "ejusdem generis" rule, even
in criminal cases, where its application seemed to conflict with the general purpose of an act. United State. v. Gilliland, 312 U. S. 86, 93;
Prussian v. United State8, 282 U. S. 675, 679; and Gooch v. United
States, 297 U. S. 124, 128; see also Helvering v. Stockholnu Enskilda
Bank, 293 U. S. 84, 88-89.
It has also treated the maxim "expressio unius est exclusio alterius"
as but an aid to construction. United State8 v. Barnes, 222 U. S. 513,
519; Springer v. Philippine Islands, 277 U. S. 189, 206; Neuberger v.

Commisiner, 311 U. S. 83,88.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

It is urged that because the definition mentions "fractional undivided interest in oil, gas or other mineral
rights," it excludes sales of leasehold subdivisions by parcels. Oil and gas rights posed a difficult problem to the
legislative draftsman. Such rights were notorious subjects
of speculation and fraud, but leases and assignments were
also indispensable instruments of legitimate oil exploration and production. To include leases and assignments
by name might easily burden the oil industry by controls
that were designed only for the traffic in securities. This
was avoided by including specifically only that form of
splitting up of mineral interests which had been most
utilized for speculative purposes. We do not think the
draftsmen thereby immunized other forms of contracts
and offerings which are proved as matter of fact to answer
to such descriptive terms as "investment contracts" and
"securities."
Nor can we agree with the court below that defendants'
offerings were beyond the scope of the Act because they
offered leases and assignments which under Texas law
conveyed interests in real estate.' In applying acts of this
general purpose, the courts have not been guided by the
nature of the assets back of a particular document or
offering." The test rather is what character the instru9Downman v. Texas, 231 U. S. 353; Texas Co. v. Daugherty, 107
Tex. 226, 176 S. W. 2d 717; Railroad Commission v. Rowan & Nichols
Oil Co., 310 U. S. 573, 579.
10 One's cemetery lot is not ordinarily thought of as an investment
and is most certainly real estate. But when such interests become the
subjects of speculation in connection with the cemetery enterprise, ecurts
have held conveyances of these lots to be securities. Matter of Waldstein, 160 Misc. 763, 291 N. Y. S. 697; Holloway v. Thompson, 42 N. E.
2d 421 (Ind. App.). For other instances where purported sales of
property have been held "investment contracts" see Securities &
Exchange Comm'n v. Crude Oil Corp., 93 F. 2d 844 (interest in oil
royalties sold as bill of sale for specified number of barrels of oil);
Securities & Exchange Comm'n v. Tung Corporation,32 F. Supp. 371;

Securities & Exchange Comm'n v. Bailey, 41 F. Supp. 647 (land bearing

S. E. C. v. JOINER CORP.
344

Opinion of the Court.

ment is given in commerce by the terms of the offer, the
plan of distribution, and the economic inducements held
out to the prospect. In the enforcement of an act such
as this it is not inappropriate that promoters' offerings
be judged as being what they were represented to be.
Finally it is urged that we must interpret with strictness
the scope of this Act because violations of it are crimes."
Some authority is cited and a great array could be assembled to support the general proposition that penal
statutes must be strictly construed. An almost equally
impressive collection can be made of decisions holding
that remedial statutes should be liberally construed.
What, then, shall we say of the construction of a section
like this which may be the basis of either civil proceedings
of a preventive or remedial nature or of punitive proceedings, or perhaps both?
Different courts have given different answers to the
general question.12 Since 1911, all states except Nevada
have enacted some type of "Blue Sky Law." While the
laws are not uniform, they generally contain both civil and
criminal sanctions, and all have the dominating purpose
to prevent and punish fraudulent floating of securities."
The weight of authority is committed to a liberal construction," ' although some courts tend toward strict construetung trees, to be developed by seller); Securities & Exchange Comm'n
v. Payne, 35 F. Supp. 873 (silver foxes); Prohaskav. Hemmer-Miller
Development Co., 256 IMI. App. 331 (farm land, to be paid for with
proceeds of crops raised by vendor); Kerst v. Nelson, 171 Minn. 191,
213 N. W. 904 (land to be cultivated as a vineyard by a third party);
Stevens v. Liberty Packing Corp., 111 N. J. Eq. 61, 161 A. 193 (rabbits).
1115 U. S. C. § 77t.
2" See 3 Sutherland on Statutory Construction (3d ed. 1943) § 5703.
U Smith, State Blue Sky Laws and the Federal Securities Act, 34
Michigan Law Review 1135.
14 See note 10 eupra; Wagner v. Kelso, 195 Iowa 959, 193 N. W. 1;
Wigington v. Mid-Continent Royalty Co., 130 Kan. 785, 288 P. 749;
People v. Montague, 280 Mich. 610, 274 N. W. 347; State v. Hofacre,

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

tion," and some have seemed to differentiate according to
the use being made of the statute, inclining to a strict
construction when a criminal penalty is being imposed
and a more liberal one when civil remedies are being
applied."
But this Court, as early as 1820, speaking through Chief
Justice Marshall, said: "The rule that penal laws are to
be construed strictly, is perhaps not much lest old than
construction itself. . .
It is said, that notwithstanding
this rule, the intention of the law maker must govern in
the construction of penal, as well as other statutes. This
is true. But this is not a new independent rule which
subverts the old. It is a modification of the ancient
maxim, and amounts to this, that though penal laws are
to be construed strictly, they are not to be construed so
strictly as to defeat the obvious intention of the legislature. The maxim is not to be so applied as to narrow the
words of the statute to the exclusion of cases which those
words, in their ordinary acceptation, or in that sense in
which the legislature has obviously used them, would
comprehend." United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat.
76, 95.
206 Minn. 167, 288 N. W. 13; State v. Pullen, 58 R. I. 294, 192 A. 473;
Kadane v. Clark, 135 Tex. 496, 143 S. W. 2d 197; Klatt v. Guaranteed
Bond Co., 213 Wis. 12, 250 N. W. 825.
In Texas itself, oil and gas leases have been held by the Supreme
Court to be securities within the state act, notwithstanding the fact
that the act expressly includes only "any interest in or under" such
leases. Kadane v. Clark, supra.
1" Westenhaver v. Dunnavant, 225 Ala. 400, 143 So. 823; Somers v.
Commercial Finance Corp., 245 Mass. 286, 139 N. E. 837; New Amsterdam Casualty Co. v. Hyde, 148 Ore. 229, 34 P. 2d 930, 35 P. 2d
980; Miller v. Stuart, 69 Utah 250, 253 P. 900.
18 See 3 Sutherland on Statutory Construction (3d ed. 1943) § 7104
and cases cited in note 8 thereunder.

S. E. C. v. JOINER CORP.
344

Opinion of the Court.

This rule in substance was repeated in United States v.
Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, 396, which said also: "The rule of
strict construction is not violated by permitting the words
of the statute to have their full meaning, or the more
extended of two meanings, as the wider popular instead of
the more narrow technical one; but the words should be
taken in such a sense, bent neither one way nor the other,
as will best manifest the legislative intent." The principle has been followed in United States v. Corbett, 215
U. S. 233, 242; Donnelley v. United States, 276 U. S. 505,
512; United States v. Giles, 300 U. S. 41, 48.
In the present case we do nothing to the words of the
Act; we merely accept them. It would be necessary in
any case for any kind of relief to prove that documents
being sold were securities under the Act. In some cases
it might be done by proving the document itself, which
on its face would be a note, a bond, or a share of stock. In
others proof must go outside the instrument itself as we
do here. Where this proof is offered in a civil action, as
here, a preponderance of the evidence will establish the
case; if it were offered in a criminal case, it would have to
meet the stricter requirement of satisfying the jury beyond
reasonable doubt.
We hold that the court below erred in denying an injunction under the undisputed facts of this case and its findings. The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE RoBERTs is of the opinion that the judg-

* ment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DouGLAs took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

