COLORADO v. KANSAS.
3868

Counsel for Parties.

appellee, is obviously not confiscation of its property. Cf.
General American Tank Car Corp. v. Terminal Co., 308
U. S. 422, 428; Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v. United
States, supra. The Commission's order is sustained and
the judgment of the District Court setting it aside is

reversed.
Reversed.

COLORADO v. KANSAS

ET AL.

BILL IN EQUITY.

No. 5, original. Argued October 11, 12, 1943.-Decided December
6, 1943.
In a suit involving use of the waters of the Arkansas River, brought
by Colorado against Kansas and a Kansas user, held:
1. Colorado is entitled to an injunction against further prosecution of suits by the Kansas user against Colorado users. P. 391.
2. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, made no allocation between
the States of the waters of the river. P. 391.
3. Kansas is not entitled on the record to an apportionment in
second-feet or acre-feet. P. 391.
4. In controversies involving the relative rights of States, the
burden on the complaining State is much heavier than that generally required to be borne by private parties, and this Court will
intervene only where a case is fully and clearly proved. P. 393.
5. Kansas' allegations that Colorado's use has materially increased since the decision in Kansas v. Colorado, and that the increase has worked a serious detriment to the substantial interests
of Kansas, are not sustained by the -evidence. P. 400.
6. Relief other than the restraint of further prosecution of
suits by the Kansas user against Colorado users is denied to both
States. P. 400.

ORIGINAL suit in equity by Colorado against Kansas and
the Finney County (Kansas) Water Users' Association.

Messrs. Gail L. Ireland, Attorney General of Colorado,
Jean S. Breitenstein, and Henry C. Vidal, with whom
Messrs. Arthur C. Gordon and A. W. McHendrie were on
the brief, for complainant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

Messrs. W. E. Stanley and Eldon Wallingford, Assistant
Attorney General of Kansas, with whom Mr. A. B.
Mitchell, Attorney General, was on the brief, for defendants.
Solicitor General Fahy, on behalf of the United States,
and Messrs. Walter R. Johnson, Attorney General of
Nebraska, and Paul F. Good, on behalf of that State, filed
briefs as amici curiae, suggesting the elimination, from
the form of final decree proposed by the Special Master,
of language relating to state ownership of waters of the
Arkansas River.
MR. JusTiCE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit is the latest of a series of litigations between
Kansas, or her citizens, and Colorado, or her citizens, concerning their respective rights to the beneficial use of the
waters of the Arkansas River.
The river has its origin in central Colorado, and is a
mountain torrent for 130 miles to a point near Canon City
where it enters a foothill region ending near Pueblo.
Thence it traverses the high plains of eastern Colorado and
western Kansas. In the areas mentioned the stream is
non-navigable.
In 1901 Kansas brought suit against Colorado in this
court for an injunction restraining the latter from diverting, or permitting anyone under her authority to divert,
waters of the river within Colorado, and for general relief.
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46.1 Kansas in her bill alleged that the waters of the river had been used for irrigation in her western counties and that, after establishment
of these uses, Colorado began systematically to appropriI The court overruled a demurrer to the bill and required Colorado
to answer. Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125.

COLORADO v. KANSAS.
383

385

Opinion of the Court.

ate and divert them between Canon City and the Kansas
state line for irrigating non-riparian arid lands; that, by
1891, all the natural flow, and much of the flood waters,
had been appropriated in Colorado so that the average
flow had been greatly reduced and the natural flow completely cut off.
Colorado replied that the stream was not continuous
except at times of flood; that, in a state of nature, its bed
east of Pueblo was frequently dry; that Colorado and her
citizens had diverted and used only the perennial flow
above Canon City and what had been done in effect conserved water for delivery into Kansas. She denied she
had substantially diminished the flow of the river at the
state line. She asserted she was entitled to consume the
entire flow; but alleged that, in any view, her total appropriations did not amount to an infringement of Kansas'
rights calling for judicial interference.
The court denied Kansas' contention that she was entitled to have the stream flow as it flowed in a state of
nature. It denied Colorado's claim that she could dispose
of all the waters within her borders, and owed no obligation to pass any of them on to Kansas. It declared that
as each State had an equality of right each stood before the
court on the same level as the other; that inquiry was not
confined to the question whether any portion of the river
waters were withheld by Colorado but must include the
effect of what had been done upon the conditions in the
respective States; and that the court must adjust the dispute on the basis of equality of rights to secure, so far as
possible, to Colorado, the benefits of irrigation, without
depriving Kansas of the benefits of a flowing stream. The
measure of the reciprocal rights and obligations of the
States was declared to be an equitable apportionment of
the benefits of the river. The court added that, before
the developments in Colorado consequent upon irrigation

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

were to be destroyed or materially affected, Kansas must
show not merely some technical right but one which
carried corresponding benefits.
On examination of the proofs, the court concluded that
diversions authorized by Colorado embraced more water
than the total flow at Canon City. It found, however,
that no clear showing was made as to what surplus water,
if any, was contributed by the tributaries below that point
or as to the proportion of the diverted water returned to
the river by seepage. The opinion described the diversions in each State, analyzed the use made of the water
and the benefits derived from it in each, considered population tables and agricultural statistics bearing upon the
growth of the communities adjacent to the river in each,
and stated conclusions, now material, as follows: That
the result of Colorado's appropriations had been beneficial
reclamation of many acres; that, while the influence of
Colorado's diversions had been of perceptible injury to
portions of the Arkansas valley in Kansas, yet to the great
body of the valley the diminution of flow had worked
little, if any, detriment- that regarding the interests of
both States, and the right of each to receive benefit
through irrigation and otherwise from the waters of the
stream, the court was noc satisfied that Kansas had made
out a case entitling it to a decree. The court added that
if depletion by Colorado continued to increase there would
come a time when Kansas might justly say that there was
no longer an equitable distribution of benefits and might
rightly call for relief against Colorado and her citizens.
Accordingly the bill was dismissed without prejudice to
future action by Kansas. The taking of evidence ended
June 16, 1905, and the decision of the court was announced
May 13, 1907.
October 30, 1909, the Finney County Water Users' Association, which maintained the so-called Farmers' Ditch
in Kansas, applied to a Kansas court for adjudication

COLORADO v. KANSAS.
383

Opinion of the Court.

of priorities as between various Kansas users of the river
water. One of the defendants, the United States Irrigating Company, removed the cause to the United States
District Court. A consent decree was entered May 16,
1911, which provided for the allocation and rotation of use
amongst certain, but not all, of the Kansas ditches, including the Farmers' Ditch. It was, however, provided that
the settlement should remain binding upon the parties
only until the adjudication of other litigation next to be
noticed.
August 27,1910, United States Irrigating Company sued
Graham Ditch Co. and others holding Colorado priorities,
in the United States District Court for Colorado, to obtain
an adjudication of priorities as between Kansas users and
Colorado users. The Finney County Association was denied leave to intervene. Evidence was taken, but the
suit was settled by a contract of February 19, 1916. By
this settlement, the Colorado defendants agreed to recognize priorities as of August 27, 1910, for all the Kansas
ditches in Finney County except the Farmers' Ditch; not
to apply for, or claim, priorities for storage purposes on the
Purgatoire River, a tributary of the Arkansas, or below
the mouth of the Purgatoire, of a date earlier than August 27, 1910; and to pay the costs of suit and an additional sum to the Kansas interests. The Kansas ditches
agreed to accept the priority date of August 27, 1910, and
the quantities of water specified in the contract, as a definition and determination of their rights. The defendants
complied with the terms of the contract.
The Finney County Association declined to become a
party to the contract and, on November 27, 1916, brought
suit in the United States District Court for Colorado
against the same defendants for relief like that sought in
the United States Irrigating Company's suit. January
29, 1923, the Finney County Association brought a second
suit in the same court against other Colorado defendants

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

for similar relief. January 24, 1928, Colorado filed the
present bill against Kansas and the Finney County
Association.
After formal recitals, the bill refers to our earlier decision, states that, in reliance upon it, money has been spent
in the improvement of the irrigation systems in Colorado,
recites the prior and the pending private litigation against
Colorado appropriators, alleges that the establishment of
an interstate priority schedule sought in the pending suits
would disrupt and destroy Colorado's administration of
the waters of the Arkansas basin and result in conflict of
state authority, asserts that no proper settlement of the
relative rights of the States can be obtained in suits by
Kansas appropriators against Colorado appropriators, outlines other injury to Colorado threatened by prosecution
of the pending cases to judgment, and prays that the Finney County Association be enjoined from further pressing
those suits, that Kansas and her citizens be enjoined from
litigating, or attempting to litigate, the relative rights of
the two States and their citizens to the waters of the river
on claims similar to those made by the Association in its
pending suits, and that the rights of Colorado and her
citizens as determined by the judgment in Kansas v. Colorado be protected.
Kansas' answer admits some allegations of the bill and
denies others, sets forth her alleged rights in the waters of
the river, recites appropriations by Kansas residents and
citizens, diversions by Colorado citizens under appropriations junior in time and inferior in right to those made in
Kansas, and asserts that, since the filing of the complaint
in Kansas v. Colorado, Colorado users have largely increased their appropriations and diversions, and threaten
further to increase them, to the injury of Kansas users.
She prays that the court protect and quiet her rights and
those of her citizens and residents, including the Finney

COLORADO v. KANSAS.
383

389

Opinion of the Court.

County Association, to their appropriations, that the rights
of her citizens and residents to divert water from the river
for irrigation be decreed in second feet and that Colorado,
her officers, agents, and citizens be perpetually enjoined
from diverting any waters from the river or its tributaries
in Colorado until the rights of Kansas, her citizens and
residents, are satisfied.
The Finney County Association filed an answer admitting and denying averments of the bill and affirmatively
praying that Colorado and her citizens be enjoined from
diverting water from the river until the Association's
right to 250 second feet is satisfied. The issues were made
up by Colorado's reply.
Pursuant to our order, evidence was taken by a Commissioner. Thereupon the cause was referred to a Master with leave to take additional evidence, and direction,
in the light of all the evidence, to state findings of fact,
conclusions of law, and to recommend a form of decree.
The evidence consists of some seven thousand typewritten
pages of testimony and 368 exhibits covering thousands of
pages.
The Master states that the "evidence is voluminous and
conflicting on many of the material issues of fact," but
his report contains no discussion or analysis of the proofs.
Apart from formal recitals, the report consists of fourteen
findings of fact,-more properly conclusions of fact,-nine
conclusions of law, and a recommended form of decree.
Each party has filed exceptions.
Three questions emerge from the pleadings. (1) Is
Colorado entitled to an injunction against the further
prosecution of litigation by Kansas users against Colorado users? (2) Does the situation call for allocation of
the waters of the basin as between Colorado and Kansas
in second feet or acre feet? (3) Has Kansas proved that
Colorado has substantially and injuriously aggravated

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

conditions which existed at the time of her earlier
suit?
The Master concluded that the first question should be
answered in the affirmative. Kansas has not excepted to
the conclusion or to the corresponding provisions of the
proposed decree.
Bearing upon the second question, the Master found
that "the average annual natural flow of the river and its
tributaries" is 1,240,000 acre feet, and the "average annual dependable and fairly continuous water supply and
flow" 1,110,000 acre feet. He recommends that the dependable flow be allocated 925,000 acre feet to Colorado and 185,000 acre feet to Kansas, 150,000 thereof between April 1 and October 1, and 35,000 between October
1 and April 1 of each year-that is, five-sixths to Colorado and one-sixth to Kansas. He submits a form of decree embodying this allocation and adjusting required
deliveries in the same proportions upward or downward in
accordance with annual flows in excess of, or less than, the
stated average annual dependable flow. He has not attempted to define flood waters or the extent to which they
are unusable by either State, and suggests no provision
whereby their occurrence may be taken into account in defining Colorado's obligation to deliver water to Kansas.
The form of decree requires measurement of flow by
gauges, one at Canon City and the other at the mouth of
the Purgatoire, and deliveries to Kansas prorated to the
total of the flows at those points.
Both States except to these features of the decree as
ambiguous and impossible of administration. Kansas,
while asserting that the award to her is inadequate, professes her willingness to accept the recommended allocation, but insists that the decree require Colorado to deliver
the quantity of water awarded to Kansas when and as demanded by her. Colorado asserts that the recommended
decree-much more Kansas' proposed amendment-

COLORADO v. KANSAS.
383

Opinion of the Court.

would entail serious and unjustified damage to her interests, if indeed compliance with its terms were possible.
In respect of the third question, the Master finds:
"There has been since the taking of testimony in the
case of Kansas against Colorado cited in 206 U. S. 46, in
1907, a material increase in the river depletion by Colorado of the water supply of the Arkansas River, which
has been consumed and used by Colorado users for irrigation purposes and which has diminished the flow of the
water into the State of Kansas and that by reason thereof
there have been injuries to the substantial interests in
Kansas."
No exception is taken to the Master's recommendation
that an injunction issue against further prosecution of
the Finney County Association suits against Colorado
users. In our view such an injunction is appropriate, and
should be granted.
Colorado urges that our decision in Kansas v. Colorado,
supra,amounted to an allocation of the flow of the Arkansas River between the two States. We cannot accept this
view. In that case Kansas labored under a burden of proof
applicable in litigation between quasi-sovereign states, of
which more hereafter The dismissal of her bill resulted
from the conclusion that she had failed to sustain the
burden. But from the decision then rendered it follows
that unless Kansas can show a present situation materially
different from that disclosed in the earlier case she cannot
now obtain relief.
The prayer of Kansas for an apportionment in second
feet or acre feet cannot be granted. In our former decision we ruled that Kansas was not entitled to a specific
share of the waters as they flowed in a state of nature,
that it did not then appear that Colorado had appropriated more than her equitable share of the flow, and that
if Kansas were later to be accorded relief, she must show
additional takings working serious injuries to her sub-

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
,Opinion of the Court.

320 U.S.

stantial interests. This was in accord with other decisions
in similar controversies.!
The reason for judicial caution in adjudicating the
relative rights of States in such cases is that, while we have
jurisdiction of such disputes," they involve the interests
of quasi-sovereigns, present complicated and delicate questions, and, due to the possibility of future change of conditions, necessitate expert administration rather than
judicial imposition of a hard and fast rule. Such controversies may appropriately be composed by negotiation
and agreement, pursuant to the compact clause of the
federal Constitution. We say of this case, as the court
has said of interstate differences of like nature, that such
mutual accommodation and agreement should, if possible,
be the medium of settlement, instead of invocation of our
adjudicatory power.'
It follows that the Master erred in attempting to divide
what he designated as the "average annual dependable"
water supply of the Arkansas River in Colorado into frac2S the cases in notes 3,4 and 6 infra. In New Jersey v. New York,
283 U. S. 336, 347, the prayer of Pennsylvania for such an allocation
was denied. Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419, is not an exception.
As it happened, the doctrine of appropriation had always prevailed
in each of the States there concerned and furnished the most appropriate and accurate measure of their respective rights of appropriation
of the flow of the Laramie River. It was, therefore, possible in enforcing equitable apportionment, to limit the amount of water which
Colorado might, without injury to Wyoming's interests, divert to
another water shed, to an amount not exceeding the unappropriated
flow.
' Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S.
46, 95, 96.
4See Washington v. Oregon, 214 U. S.205, 218; Minnesota v. Wisconain,252 U. S.273, 283; New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S.296, 313.
Compare the Colorado River Compact of Nov. 24, 1922, authorized
by Act of August 19, 1921, 42 Stat. 171, and dismissed in Arizona v.
California, 292 U. S. 341, 345; and compare Hinderlider v. La Plato

River Co., 304 U. S.92.

COLORADO v. KANSAS.
383

393

Opinion of the Court.

tions and awarding those fractions to the States respectively. Such a controversy as is here presented is not to
be determined as if it were one between two private
riparian proprietors or appropriators.'
The lower State is not entitled to have the stream flow
as it would in nature regardless of need or use.' If, then,
the upper State is devoting the water to a beneficial use,
the question to be decided, in the light of existing conditions in both States, is whether, and to what extent, her
action injures the lower State and her citizens by depriving
them of a like, or an equally valuable, beneficial use.7
We come now to the vital question whether Kansas has
made good her claim to relief founded on the charge that
Colorado has, since our prior decision, increased depletion
of the water supply to the material damage of Kansas'
substantial interests. The question must be answered in
the light of rules of decision appropriate to the quality of
the parties and the nature of the suit.
In such disputes as this, the court is conscious of the
great and serious caution with which it is necessary to
approach the inquiry whether a case is proved. Not
every matter which would warrant resort to equity by one
citizen against another would justify our interference with
the action of a State, for the burden on the complaining
State is much greater than that generally required to be
borne by private parties. Before the court will intervene the case must be of serious magnitude and fully and
clearly proved.' And in determining whether one State
5 Kansas v.

Colorado, supra, 100.
v.
6Kansas Colorado, supra, 85, 101-102; Connecticut v. Massachusetts, 282 U. S. 660, 669-670; Washington v. Oregon, 297 U. S. 517,
523, 526.
7Cases cited in Note 8.
8Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, 520-521; New York v. New
Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, 309; North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 365,
374; Connecticut v. Massachusetts, 282 U. S. 660, 669; Alabama v.
Arizona, 291 U. S. 286, 292; Washington v. Oregon, 297 U. S. 517, 522.

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

is using, or threatening to use, more than its equitable
share of the benefits of a stream, all the factors which
create equities in favor of one State or the other must be
weighed as of the date when the controversy is mooted.
On this record there can be no doubt that a decree such
as the Master recommends, or an amendment or enlargement of that decree in the form Kansas asks, would inflict
serious damage on existing agricultural interests in Colorado. How great the injury would be it is difficult to
determine, but certainly the proposed decree would
operate to deprive some citizens of Colorado, to some
extent, of their means of support. It might indeed result
in the abandonment of valuable improvements and actual
migration from farms. Through practice of irrigation,
Colorado's agriculture in the basin has grown steadily for
fifty years. With this development has gone a large investment in canals, reservoirs, and farms. The progress
has been open. The facts were of common knowledge.
The controversy was litigated in 1901. Kansas was
denied relief in 1907. The dispute between appropriators
in the two States was brought into court in 1910 and
settled in 1916. The Finney County Association sued
Colorado appropriators in 1916 and 1923. Even if
Kansas' claims of increased depletion and ensuing damage
are taken at face value, it is nevertheless evident that
while improvements based upon irrigation went forward
in Colorado for twenty-one years, Kansas took no action
until Colorado filed the instant complaint in 1928.
These facts might well preclude the award of the relief
Kansas asks. But, in any event, they gravely add to
the burden she would otherwise bear, and must be weighed
in estimating the equities of the case.'
The Master concludes that there has been a material
increase in depletion by Colorado, a consequent diminution
9 Washington v. Oregon,297 U. S. 517, 526.

COLORADO v. KANSAS.
383

Opinion of the Court.

of flow across the state line, and injury to the substantial
interests of Kansas. His report does not state what he
considers material; or the extent of the diminution of flow;
or the interests of Kansas which have been injured and
the extent of the injury. We must, therefore, turn to the
evidence to resolve the issues.
Kansas asserts that since the decision of Kansas v. Colorado, supra, Colorado has increased her consumptive use
of the water of the Arkansas River by an annual average of
between 300,000 and 400,000 acre feet. Witnesses so testified and, to support their conclusions, submitted elaborate
calculations and analyses exhibiting the alleged total water
supply of the river basin in Colorado and the alleged
amount of water passing in the bed of the stream across
the state line. A witness submitted tables covering the
period 1895-1930 from which he deduced an average yearly
water supply of 1,240,000 acre feet and an average annual
dependable supply of 1,110,000 acre feet. He presented
figures to show that Colorado's consumptive use had increased to the extent of an annual average of 300,000 acre
feet. He reached this result by using estimated flow across
the state line between 1895 and 1908 and measured flow
between 1908 and 1930, during which period a gauging station was maintained at Holly near the line. Measurements
indicate that, during the latter period, the average annual
state line flow was 260,700 acre feet."0 If, as claimed, this
flow remained after an additional average annual depletion of 300,000 acre feet by Colorado, the average annual
flow in the earlier period, 1895 to 1908, would necessarily
have been greater by 300,000, or would have averaged
560,700 acre feet. The witness' own exhibit shows that he
assumed an average annual state line flow for the period
10In computing average annual flows, flood waters are included in
the reckoning. As later shown, such annual averages do not represent

the quantities of water usable by diversion ditches for irrigation.

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

1895-1899 of 300,000 acre feet, for 1900-1904, of 470,000
acre feet, and, for 1905-1909, of 454,000 acre feet, or an
annual average over the total period, 1895-1909, of 408,000
acre feet. On his own estimates the claimed average annual depletion of 300,000 acre feet could not have taken
place. Moreover, the force of this evidence is weakened by
Kansas' allegations in Kansas v. Colorado, supra. In her
bill in that case she alleged Colorado had totally destroyed
the normal flow of the river exclusive of floods whereas she
now asserts that the flow at the time of the earlier suit was
such that Colorado has been able to deplete it on an annual
average of 300,000 acre feet.
The records of Colorado's consumption and ditch diversions, and the Colorado and Kansas exhibits showing
the divertible and usable state line flow, rebut such an increase as Kansas asserts. Kansas' expert witness himself testified that the diversion records show no material
change in Colorado diversions since 1905 and that if acreage in Colorado has expanded under the ditches on the
main stem of the river it has done so because of an improved duty of water; that, during the period, the river
gains due to return flow have increased, the consumptive
use of water has declined, and relatively the stream flows
have improved.
The Kansas ditches are capable of diverting water only
up to 2,000 c. f. s. When the flow is greater the excess
cannot be diverted and used. It is admitted that the
character of the flow of the river in Colorado is variable
from year to year, from season to season, and from day to
day, and the main river below Canon City may be almost
without water one day, run a flood the next day, and, on
the following day, be in practically its original condition.
Thus it appears that both in Colorado and in Kansas
there may at one time be flood water unavailable for direct diversion and, at another, not enough water to supply
the capacity of diversion ditches. The critical matter is

COLORADO v. KANSAS.
383

Opinion of the Court

the amount of divertible flow at times when water is most
needed tor irrigation. Calculations of average annual
flow, which include flood flows, are, therefore, not helpful
in ascertaining the dependable supply of water usable for
irrigation. That supply has, in Colorado, been supplemented by the extensive use of reservoirs for storage of
flood waters and winter flows not usable or needed for irrigation. Though western Kansas affords sites for similar
storage reservoirs, but one small basin has been constructed in that State. On the other hand, the storage in
Colorado, and the release of stored water to supplement
the natural flow of the stream in times of need, operates
by seepage and return to the channel to stabilize and improve the fluw at thp state line and, to that extent, benefits irrigation in Kansas.
Kansas relies heavily upon the increase of irrigated
acreage in Colorado since our decision in 1907. The testimony in the earlier case was closed in 1905. The then
latest available census-for 1902--reported 300,115 acres
under irrigation in the Arkansas basin in Colorado In
its opinion the court referred to this figure. The next
census-for 1909-gives the Colorado acreage as 464,236.
The later reports disclose an addition of less than 5,000
acres between 1909 and 1939. Thus a total of about
170,000 additional acres has been put under irrigation
since 1902. On its face this record would seem to indicate a large increase of consumptive use by Colorado, but
the acreage under irrigation does not afford a reliable
measure of actual consumption. When first turned in,
the water is rapidly absorbed by the sub-soil with consequent high consumption. By continued irrigation the
sub-soil becomes saturated, the water table rises, and water, in increasing quantities, flows back to the stream.
Ultimately consumption falls well below diversion. The
returned water again may be diverted and again supply
return flows. Since the decision in the earlier case, studies

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

of return flows have been made which indicate a steady
reduction in the quantity of water consumed per acre of
irrigated land.
Practically all of the affected Kansas ditches are in three
western counties. Tables taken from the United States
census show that, in 1899, acreage irrigated in these counties was 6% of that irrigated in the Colorado basin. In
1909 it was 7%, in 1929, 9.7%, and, in 1939, 10.7%. It
seems that Colorado cannot have depleted the usable supply passing into Kansas if acreage under irrigation is any
measure of depletion.
Whatever may be said of the practices of Colorado since
1905, Kansas is not entitled to relief unless she shows they
clearly have entailed serious damage to her substantial interests and those of her citizens. It is not necessary to
quote the findings of this court made in the earlier case.
We need only say they disclose that some ditches in western Kansas had been abandoned for lack of available water
and all ditches were suffering from shortages of flow. The
court pointed out that Colorado had authorized diversions
in excess of the flow at Canon City. And the record in the
present case indicates that, except for seepage and return
flow, the appropriations Colorado has authorized from the
basin, as a whole, exceed the available dependable flow of
the stream and its tributaries, and this appears to have
been true also in 1901. It appears, nevertheless, that,
since 1904, an increased quantity of usable water has
passed the state line, for it is testified by Kansas' expert
witness that, between 1895 and 1902, no divertible water
passed the line and none between 1903 and 1907, except in
1903 and 1905, whereas in each year since 1908 divertible
water has crossed the state line in varying quantities and,
in most years, in substantial amounts.
Kansas, however, insists that 414,000 acres in western
Kansas are susceptible of successful irrigation, and much
of this land would have been irrigated had Colorado not

COLORADO v. KANSAS.
383

Opinion of the Court.

deprived Kansas of her equitable share of the flow. The
evidence is that the acreage now irrigated in Kansas lies
close to the river and along the river bottom. The land
claimed to be susceptible of irrigation extends many miles
from the bed of the river. We are asked to speculate as
to how much of this land would have been put under
irrigation under more favorable circumstances.
As has been pointed out, despite Colorado's alleged increased depletion, the acreage under irrigation in western
Kansas through existing ditches has steadily increased,
over the period 1895-1939, from approximately 15,000
acres to approximately 56,000 acres. Moreover, the arid
lands in western Kansas are underlaid at shallow depths
with great quantities of ground water available for irrigation by pumping at low initial and -maintenance cost.
There is persuasive testimony that farmers who could be
served from existing ditches have elected not to take water
therefrom but to install pumping systems because of lower
cost.
Again, there is serious question whether lands which are
not riparian may divert the water from the stream for
irrigation. In the earlier suit Kansas asserted, 1 and the
court held," that the common law prevailed in Kansas and
governed the rights of riparian owners. It is true that the
rule as to riparian rights has been expanded by the common law of Kansas to permit a riparian proprietor reasonable use of the waters of a stream for irrigation.'3

But

such use is subject to the rights of other riparian owners
to a like reasonable use. What is reasonable must, in each
instance, be determined in the light of total supply and
total need of all riparian owners." It is also true that,
beginning in 1886, Kansas, by statute, recognized appro11206 U. S. 51, 52, 58, 59, 60, 61.
12Ibid., 95, 99, 102, 104.
13 Campbell v. Grimea, 62 Kan. 503, 64 P. 62.
" Clark v. Allaman, 71 Kan. 206,80 P. 571.

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

priation for irrigation. But there is doubt whether the
privilege is not restricted to riparian owners in some portions of the State. The Supreme Court of Kansas has
held that, where a title originates in a grant antedating
the Act of 1886, the right of appropriation is limited by
the common law as to riparian rights, which are rights of
property derived from the original patent or deed in the
line of title." It seems that title to much of the land
along the Arkansas Valley in western Kansas was originally granted or patented prior to 1886. The brief and
argument of Kansas, while referring to the statutes of
the State authorizing appropriation, make no reference to
the Kansas decisions and no showing with respect to the
right of non-riparian owners to appropriate waters against
objection by other such owners.
The official census figures submitted bearing upon population of the western counties of Kansas, and the agricultural production in them, give no support to a claim
that the inhabitants have suffered for lack of arable and
productive land. Generally speaking, the population has
steadily increased and the agricultural production has also
risen throughout the period in question.
All these considerations persuade us that Kansas has
not sustained her allegations that Colorado's use has materially increased, and that the increase has worked a
serious detriment to the substantial interests of Kansas.
A decree should be entered enjoining the further prosecution of the Finney County Association's suits, and dismissing the prayers of both States for other relief. The
parties may submit such a decree.

15 Frizdl v. Bindley, 144 Kan. 84, 58 P. 2d 95.
147 Kati. 40, 75 P. 2d 273.

Cf. Smith v. Miller,

