GENERAL COMMITTEE v. M.-K.-T. R. CO. 323
297

Syllabus.

The right to select representatives with whom carriers
must bargain was created by the Act and the remedy sought
here arises under that law. Since the cause of action
"had its origin and is controlled by" the Railway Labor Act,
it arises under it. Peyton v. Railway Express Agency, 316
U. S. 350; Mulford v. Smith, 307 U. S. 38,46; Turner Lumber Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 271 U. S. 259, 261;
Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Rice, 247 U. S. 201.
Since the Court declines federal jurisdiction, it is useless to discuss either the merits or the other procedural
questions such as jurisdiction in equity to grant the injunction requested, the power to vacate the order of the
Mediation Board or the effect of the Norris-La Guardia
Act.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join in
this dissent.
GENERAL COMMITTEE OF ADJUSTMENT OF
THE BROTHERHOOD OF LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEERS FOR THE MISSOURI-KANSAS-TEXAS
RAILROAD v. MISSOURI-KANSAS-TEXAS RAILROAD CO. Er AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 23. Argued October 14, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.
Between a labor organization which was the duly designated bargaining representative for the craft of engineers employed by certain
carriers, and another which was the duly designated bargaining
representative for the craft of firemen employed on the same lines,
a dispute arose relative to the calling of men for emergency service
as engineers. Efforts to settle the dispute having failed, the matter
was submitted to the National Mediation Board, and a mediation
agreement between the Firemen and the carriers resulted. The
Engineers then brought an action in the federal District Court for
a declaratory judgment that the agreement was in violation of the
Railway Labor Act and that the Engineers should be declared to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Counsel for Parties.

320 U. S.

the sole representative of the craft of engineers with the exclusive
right to bargain for them. The carriers in their answer prayed that
the court declare the respective rights of the parties. The Firemen,
though challenging the jurisdiction of the court, in the alternative
asked that the agreement be declared void. Hcid that the is.sues
tendered were not justiciable and that the District Court was without jurisdiction to resolve the controversy. P. 327.
1. Thc ease involves no right which under the Railway Labor
Act is enforcible by the courts; and therefore the action is not one
"arising under any law regulating commerce" and not within the
original jurisdiction of thc District Court under Jud. Code § 24 (8).
P. 337.
In view of the pattern of the Railway Labor Act and its history,
the command of the Act should be explicit and the purpose to afford
a judicial remedy plain before an obligation enforcible in the courts
should be implied. P. 337.
2. The District Court was without power to enter a declaratory
decree for the benefit of any of the parties. P. 337.
132 F. 2d 91, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 319 U. S. 736, to review a judgment which
modified and affirmed a decree dismissing the complaint
in an action for a declaratory judgment.
Messrs. John W. Madden, Jr.and Harold N. McLaughlin, with whom Mr. Clarence E. Weisell was on the brief,

for petitioner.
Mr. Lucian Touchstone, with whom Messrs. Allen Wight

and C. S. Burg were on the brief, for the Missouri-KansasTexas Railroad Co., et al.; and Mr. Harold C. Heiss, with
whom Messrs. Russell B. Day and T. D. Gresham were
on the brief, for the General Grievance Committee of the

Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen,-

respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. Robert L. Stern filed

a brief on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
urging reversal.

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. M.-K.-T. R. CO. 325
323

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DoUGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves a dispute under the Railway Labor
Act concerning the authority of two railroad Brotherhoods
to represent certain employees in collective bargaining
with the defendant-carriers. The petitioner (hereinafter
called the Engineers) is a committee of the Brotherhood
of Locomotive Engineers which has been and is the duly
designated bargaining representative for the craft of engineers employed by the carriers. The third-party defendant (hereinafter called the Firemen) is a committee of
the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen
which has been and is the duly designated bargaining representative for the craft of firemen on the same lines.
Each craft has long had an agreement with the carriers
concerning rules, rates of pay, and working conditions.
The agreement with the Engineers states that the right
to make and interpret contracts, rules, rates and working
agreements for locomotive engineers is vested in that committee. The agreement with the Firemen contains a similar provision concerning members of that craft. Both
agreements also contain rules governing the demotion of
engineers to be firemen, the promotion of firemen to be
engineers, and return of demoted engineers to their former
work.'

For many years the two Brotherhoods had an

Generally speaking, employees hired under collective bargaining
agreements as firemen immediately begin to acquire seniority as such.

After a certain period firemen are required to take an engineer's
examination. Vacant positions as engineers are filled from the list
of those who have passed the qualifying tests. When it is necessary to reduce the force of working engineers those with the lowest
seniority are dropped and they resume their positions as firemen in
accordan-e with the seniority in that craft. As a result, firemen with

a lower seniority are moved down the ladder of jobs. Thus the most
junior firemen are deprived of work and furloughed until their services
are needed. When a vacancy occurs in the engineers' ranks or when
the work of engineers increases, all move up the ladder of jobs again.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

agreement which established rules and regulations on
these subjects and which provided machinery for resolving
disputes which might arise between them. This agreement was cancelled in 1927. The present dispute arose
since that time and relates to the calling of engineers for
emergency service. In general the Engineers and the
carriers had a working arrangement providing (1) that,
excepting'Smithville, Texas, the senior available demoted
engineer whose home terminal was at the place where the
service was required or the man assigned to the particular
run as fireman, if he had greater seniority as engineer,
would be chosen when it was necessary to call an engineer
for emergency service; (2) that the regulation of the engineers' working lists was to be handled by the Engineers'
local chairman, not by the management; and (3) that at
Smithville, emergency work would be performed by advancing the assignment of engineers in the so-called
"pool," ' instead of calling in emergency engineers. These
arrangements were not satisfactory to the Firemen. After
protest to the carriers and after a failure of the Brotherhoods to resolve their dispute the matter was submitted
to the National Mediation Board for mediation. The
Engineers did not participate. The Firemen and the carriers entered into the Mediation Agreement of December
12, 1940, the validity of which is here challenged. The
effect of that agreement was in general to eliminate the
preference previously given to engineers of the home terminal and the special arrangement at Smithville in favor
of the pool engineers. It also changed the practice respecting the handling of the engineers' working lists' Engineers are generally assigned in order of seniority to regular runs
(both passenger and freight), then to pool freight service (which rotates irregular runs among the pool members on a first in first out
basis), and then to extra boards of engineers from which assignments
are made as positions are available. If no engineer in those categories is available, the senior available qualified engineer working as
a fireman is called as an "emergency" engineer.

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. M.-K.-T. R. CO. 327
323

Opinion of the Court.

thereafter the assignments would be handled by the management assisted by the local chairmen of the two groups.
After making the agreement the carriers gave notice to
the Engineers that they were cancelling previous arrangements with that Brotherhood.
The Engineers then brought this action for a declaratory judgment (48 Stat. 955, 28 U. S. C. § 400) that the
agreement of December 12, 1940, was in violation of the
Railway Labor Act (44 Stat. 577, 48 Stat. 1185, 45 U. S. C.
§ 151) and that the Engineers should be declared to be the
sole representative of the locomotive engineers with the
exclusive right to bargain for them. The carriers in their
answer prayed that the court declare the respective rights
of the parties. And the Firemen, though challenging
the jurisdiction of the court, in the alternative asked that
the agreement of December 12, 1940, be declared valid.
The District Court dismissed the petition, holding that
the carriers had a right to contract with either of the crafts
with reference to the problems in question. The Circuit
Court of Appeals held that both crafts were interested in
the subject matter of the dispute, that neither craft had
an exclusive right to bargain concerning the matters in
issue, that the representatives of both crafts should confer
and if possible agree, and that the agreement of December
12, 1940, might be terminated by the carriers if not
acquiesced in by the Engineers. 132 F. 2d 91.
The case is here on a petition for certiorari which we
granted because of the importance of the problems raised
by the assumption of jurisdiction over such controversies
by the federal courts.
The bulk of the argument here relates to the merits of
the dispute. But we do not intimate an opinion concerning them. For we are of the view that the District
Court was without power to resolve the controversy.
It is our view that the issues tendered by the present
litigation are not justiciable-that is to say that Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

by this Act has foreclosed resort to the courts for enforcement of the claims asserted by the parties.
The history of this legislation has been traced in earlier
cases coming before this Court. See PennsylvaniaR. Co.
v. RailroadLabor Board, 261 U. S. 72; PennsylvaniaSystem Federation v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 267 U. S. 203;
Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks,
281 U. S. 548; Virginian Ry. Co. v. Systeom Federation
No. /0, 300 U. S.515. The present Act is the product
of some fifty years of evolution.' For many years the
3The first of seven statutes enatted during this period was the

Arbitration Act of 18S8, 25 Stat. 501. This act provided for the
voluntary arbitration of disputes and authorized the President to set
up investigating committees. It was superseded in 1898 by the Erdman Act (30 Stat. 424) which provided machinery for arbitration and
also introduced for the first time the policy of mediation. The mediators wcre the chairman of the Interstate Commerce Ccmmission and
the United States Commissioner of Labor. Next came the Newlands
Act of 1913 (38 Stat. 103) which established a permanent Board of
M,,diation and Conciliation. Under both the Edman .nd Newlands
acts, mediation was to be ermployed first, and upon failure of'that the
media',ors were to attempt to have the parties arbitrate. In 1916
passed the Adamson Act (39 Stat. 721) in settlement of a
dispute over the eight-hour day. That act provided for an eighthour day for train operators and a commission to enforce it. Upon
return of the railroads to private ownership, the Esch-Cummins law
was passed. See Title III of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat.
4:G. This act diffcred from the earlier legislation by providing for
public represcntation on a newly created Railroad Labor Board, by
permitting the Board to investigate all disputes of its own initiative,
-;nd by placing the primuary burden of Fettlement of disputes on direct
negotiations between the parties. In 1926 Congress passed the first
R:ti,'ay Labor Act (44 Stat. 577) which was amended in 1934, 48
Stat. llS5. See Alderman, The History of Federal Lislation Dealing
with Mochi:lery for Settling Disputes Concerning Wages and Working
Conditions of EmployccT of Interstate Railroads (1938); The Railway La:or Act nnd the_ National Mediation Board (1940), pp. 7-8,
i7-76; Fisher, Ihdutrial Disputes (1940), pp. 154-86; Johnson,
Government Regulation of Transportation (1938), pp. 190-206;
Parmee,, The M,7odern Raiiway (1940), pp. 420-35; Spencer, The

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. M.-K.-T. R. CO. 329
323

Opinion of the Court.

only sanctions under the various Congressional enactments in this field were publicity and public opinion.
A conspicuous example concerns the Railroad Labor
Board, constituted under the Transportation Act of
1920. It had important functions to perform. But
this Court held in the FederationNo. 90 case (267 U. S.
203) that the Board's decisions were not supported
by any legal sanctions. The parties to the labor controversies covered by the Act were not "in any way to be
forced into compliance with the statute or with the judgments pronounced by the Labor Board, except through the
effect of adverse public opinion." Id., p. 216. The 1926
Act (44 Stat. 577) made a basic change in the pattern of
the railway labor legislation which had preceded.' Conciliatory means were adhered to; provisions for mediation
and arbitration were adopted; and the use of that machinery on a voluntary basis was encouraged.' But Congress
also supported its policy with the imposition of some
rules of conduct for breach of which the courts afford a
sanction. Thus Congress stated in § 2, Third of the 1926
Act that the choice by employees of their collective bargaining representatives should be free from the carriers'
coercion and influence. That "definite statutory prohibition of conduct which would thwart the declared purpose" of the Act was held by this Court in the Clerks case
to be enforcible in an appropriate suit. 281 U. S. 548,
568. As stated by Chief Justice Hughes in that case:
"Freedom of choice in the selection of representatives
on each side of the dispute is the essential foundation of
National Railroad Adjustment Board (1938), pp. 1-16; Witte, The
Government in Labor Disputes (1932), pp. 238-44; Wolf, The Railroad Labor Board (1927), pp. 1-13; Garrison, The National Railroad Adjustmept Board: A Unique Administrative Agency, 46 Yale
L. J. 567.
' The Railway Labor Act and the National Mediation Board (1940),
pp. 1-8.
*S. Rep. No. 222, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

the statutory scheme. All the proceedings looking to
amicable adjustments and to agreements for arbitration
of disputes, the entire policy of the Act, must depend for
success on the uncoerced action of each party through its
own representatives to the end that agreements satisfactory to both may be reached and the peace essential to
the uninterrupted service of the instrumentalities of interstate commerce may be maintained. There is no impairment of the voluntary character of arrangements for the
adjustment of disputes in the imposition of a legal obligation not to interfere with the free choice of those who
are to make such adjustments. On the contrary, it is of
the essence of a voluntary scheme, if it is to accomplish its
purpose, that this liberty should be safeguarded. The
definite prohibition which Congress inserted in the Act
can not therefore be overridden in the view that Congress
intended it to be ignored. As the prohibition was appropriate to the aim of Congress, and is capable of enforcement, the conclusion must be that enforcement was contemplated." 281 U. S. p. 569.
Thus what had long been a "right" of employees enforcible
only by strikes and other methods of industrial warfare
emerged as a "right" enforcible by judicial decree. The
right of collective bargaining was no longer dependent on
economic power alone.
Further protection was accorded that right by the
amendments which were added in 1934. Thus § 2, Ninth
provided machinery strengthening the representation provisions of the Act. H. Rep. No. 1944, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 2. That new provision gave the National Mediation
Board an adjudicatory function in the settlement of representation disputes. It provided for a reference to that
Board of representation disputes arising among a carrier's employees. It charged the Board with the "duty"
upon the request of either party to the dispute to investigate the controversy and to certify the name or names

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. M.-K.-T. R. CO. 331
323

Opinion of the Court.

of the designated and authorized representatives of the
employees. And Congress added the command that
"Upon receipt of such certification the carrier shall treat
with the representative so certified as the representative
of the craft or class for the purposes of this Act." It was
that specific command for disobedience of which this Court
held in the Virginian Ry. Co. case (300 U. S. 515) that
courts would provide a remedy. That result was reached
over the objection that § 2, Ninth stated a policy but
created no rights or duties enforcible by judicial decree.
This Court reviewed the history of §2, Ninth-its purpose
and meaning. It concluded that the provision in question was "mandatory in form and capable of enforcement
by judicial process." Id., p. 545. It observed that if the
provision were construed as being precatory only, its addition to the Act was "purposeless"; that only a requirement of "some affirmative act on the part of the employer"
would add to the 1926 Act. Id., p. 547. The Court accordingly concluded that the command of § 2, Ninth could
not have been intended to be without legal sanction.
Other similar statutory commands or prohibitions were
provided by Congress. The right of the majority of a
craft or class to determine who shall be the craft or class
representative (§ 2, Fourth); the right of the employees
to designate as their representative one who is not an employee of the carrier (§ 2, Third); the prohibition against
"yellow dog" contracts (§ 2, Fifth) are illustrative.'
Moreover, administrative machinery was provided for the
adjudication of certain controversies. Congress established the National Railroad Adjustment Board for the
settlement of specific types of disputes or grievances between employees and the carrier. § 3. And Congress
gave the courts jurisdiction to entertain suits based on
the awards of the Adjustment Board. §3, First (p). That
6Criminal penalties were added by § 2, Tenth for the wilful violation
of certain provisions of the Act including the three just mentioned.

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

feature of the Act, as well as § 2, Ninth which placed on
the Mediation Board definite adjudicatory functions,
transferred certain segments of railway labor problems
from the realm of conciliation and mediation to tribunals
of the law. The new administrative machinery plus the
statutory commands and prohibitions marked a great advance in supplementing negotiation and self-help with
,pecific legal sanctions in enforcement of the Congressional policy.
But it is apparent on the face of the Act that while Congress dealt with this subject comprehensively, it left the
solution of only some of those problems to the courts or
to administrative agencies. It entrusted large segments
of this field to the voluntary processes of conciliation,
mediation, aiPd arbitration. Thus by § 5, First, Congress
provided that either party to a dispute might invoke the
services of the Mediation Board in a "dispute concerning
changes in rates of pay, rules, or working conditions not
adjusted by the parties in conference" and any other "dispute not referable" to the Adjustment Board and "not
adjusted in conference between the parties or where conierences are ref used.'" Beyond the mediation machinery
furnished by the Board lies arbitration. § 5, First and
Third. § 7. In case both fail there is the Emergency
Board which may be established by the President under
§ 10. In short, Congress by this legislation has freely employed the traditional instruments of mediation, conciliation and arbitration. Those instruments, in addition to
the available economic weapons, remain unchanged in
large areas of this railway labor field. On only certain
phases of this controversial subject has Congress utilized
The Mediation Board aio has power of :,nterprcta ion of mediation
agreements. § 5, Second. It lkewie ha duties with respect to the
akbitratiou of disputes. See § 5, Third. Mcdiotivn is the Board's

"most important task." Eighth Annual Report, National Mediation

1Board (1942) p. 4.

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. M.-K.-T. R. CO. 333
323

Opinion of the Court.

administrative or judicial machinery and invoked the compulsions of the law. Congress was dealing with a subject
highly charged with emotion. Its approach has not only
been slow; it has been piecemeal. Congress has been
highly selective in its use of legal machinery. The delicacy of these problems has made it hesitant to go too fast
or too far. The inference is strong that Congress intended
to go no further in its use of the processes of adjudication
and litigation than the express provisions of the Act
indicate.
That history has a special claim here. It must be kept
in mind in analyzing a bill of complaint which, like the
present one, seeks to state a cause of action under the Railway Labor Act and asks that judicial power be exerted in
enforcement of an obligation which it is claimed Congress
has created.
The Engineers assert that the carriers had no right under the Act to negotiate with the Firemen on the subject
of emergency engineers and that the Mediation Agreement
of December 12, 1940, is therefore void. They rely on § 2,
Fourth of the Act and on § 2, First and Ninth." Sec. 2,
Fourth states that "Employees shall have the right to
organize and bargain collectively through representatives
of their own choosing." But that great right, which Congress in 1926 at last supported with legal sanctions, is not
challenged here. The Engineers and the Firemen are the
collective bargaining agents for their respective crafts and
are acknowledged as such. Their authority so to act is not
8 Respondents in support of their prayers for declaratory relief rely
not only on the implications from these and other sections of the Act
but also on the proviso clause of § 1, Fifth to the effect "That no occupational classification made by order of the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be construed to define the crafts according to which railway employees may be organized by their voluntary action, nor shall

the jurisdiction or powers of such employee organizations be regarded
as in any way limited or defined by the provisions of this Act or by the
orders of the Commission."

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

challenged. Nor is it apparent how the majority rule provision of § 2, Fourth is involved here. It states that "The
majority of any craft or class of employees shall have the
right to determine who shall be the representative of the
craft or class for the purposes of this Act." But concededly the Engineers represent a majority of the craft of
engineers and the Firemen a majority of the firemen's
craft. The principle of majority representation is not
challenged. Nor does § 2, Second make justiciable what
otherwise is not. It provides that "All disputes between
a carrier or carriers and its or their employees shall be considered, and, if possible, decided, with all expedition, in
conference between representatives designated and authorized so to confer, respectively, by the carrier or carriers and by the employees thereof interested in the dispute." As we have already pointed out, § 2, Ninth, after
providing for a certification by the Mediation Board of the
particular craft or class representative, states that "the
carrier shall treat with the representative so certified as the
representative of the craft or class for the purposes of this
Act." That command of § 2, Ninth was enforced in the
Virginian Ry. Co. case. But § 2, Second, like § 2, First,'
merely states the policy which those other provisions
buttress with more particularized commands.
It is true that the present controversy grows out of
an application of the principles of collective bargaining
and majority rule. It involves a jurisdictional disputean asserted overlapping of the interests of two crafts. It
necessitates a determination of the point where the au9 Sea. 2, First provides: "It shall be the duty of all carriers, their officers, agents, and employees to exert every reasonable effort to make
and maintain agreements concerning rates of pay, rules, and working
conditions, and to settle all disputes, whether arising out of the application of such agreements or otherwise, in order to avoid any interruption
to commerce or to the operation of any carrier growing out of any dis-

pute between the carrier and the employees thereof."

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. M.-K.-T. R. CO. 335
323

Opinion of the Court.

thority of one craft ends and the other begins or of the
zones where they have joint authority. In the Clerks case
and in the Virginian Ry. Co. case the Court was asked to
enforce statutory commands which were explicit and unequivocal. But the situation here is different. Congress
did not attempt to make any codification of rules governing these jurisdictional controversies. It did not undertake a statement of the various principles of agency which
were to govern the solution of disputes arising from an
overlapping of the interests of two or more crafts. It established the general principles of collective bargaining
and applied a command or prohibition enforcible by judicial decree to only some of its phases. The contention,
however, is that the rule which Congress intended to govern can be found from the implications of the Act. Thus
it is argued that the reasons which support the holding in
the VirginianRy. Co. case that the right of majority craft
representation is exclusive also suggest that Congress intended to write into the Railway Labor Act a restriction
on the rules and working conditions concerning which the
craft has the right to contract. It is pointed out that if
the jurisdiction of a craft within which the exclusive right
may be exercised is not limited, then disputes between
unions may defeat the express purposes of the Act. In
that connection reference is made to the statement of
this Court in the Virginian Ry. Co. case (300 U. S. p. 548)
that the Act imposes upon the carrier "the affirmative duty
to treat only with the true representative, and hence the
negative duty to treat with no other." That expresses the
basic philosophy of § 2, Ninth. But the decision does not
imply, as is argued here, that every representation problem arising under the Act presents a justiciable controversy. It does not suggest that the respective domains
for two or more overlapping crafts should be litigated in
the federal district courts.

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. S.

It seems to us plain that when Congress came to the
question of these jurisdictional disputes, it chose not to
leave their solution to the courts. As we have already
pointed out, Congress left the present problems far back in
the penumbra of those few principles which it codified.
Moreover, it selected different machinery for their solution. Congress did not leave the problem of inter-union
disputes untouched. It is clear from the legislative history of § 2, Ninth that it was designed not only to help
free the unions from the influence, coercion and control
of the carriers but also to resolve a wide range of jurisdictional disputes between unions or between groups of
employees.' H. Rep. No. 1944, supra, p. 2; S. Rep. No.
1065, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 3. However wide may be the
range of jurisdictional disputes embraced within § 2,
Ninth,'1 Congress did not select the courts to resolve them.
To the contrary, it fashioned an administrative remedy
and left that group of disputes to the National Mediation
Board. If the present dispute falls within § 2, Ninth, the
administrative remedy is exclusive." If a narrower view
of § 2, Ninth is taken, it is difficult to believe that Congress
10 This is made clear by Commissioner Eastman, the draftsman of
the 1934 amendments, in his testimony at the hearings. See Hearings,
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, House of Representatives, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., on H. R. 7650, pp. 39-41, 45, 57-58, 59.
n It is apparently ,he view of the National Mediation Board that § 2,
Ninth was designed to cover ony those disputes entailing an election
by employees of their representatives. See Brotherhood of Railroad
Trainmen v. National Mediation Board, 135 F. 2d 780, 782. In an
election case the Board may have to make a preliminary determination
as to the eligibility of voters involving the type of problem presented
here. See Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen v. National Mediation
Board, 88 F. 2d 757. dealing with the question whether brakemen having seniority as conductors could vote in the conductors' election.
12 Whether judicial power may ever be exerted to require the Mediation Board to exercise the "duty" imposed upon it under § 2, Ninth
and, if so, the type or types of situations in which it may be invoked
present questions not involved here.

GENERAL COMMITTEE v. M.-K.-T. R. CO. 337
323

Opinion of the Court.

saved some jurisdictional disputes for the Mediation
Board and sent the parties into the federal courts to resolve the others. Rather the conclusion is irresistible
that Congress carved out of the field of conciliation,
mediation and arbitration only the select list of problems
which it was ready to place in the adjudicatory channel.
AU else it left to those voluntary processes whose use Congress had long encouraged to protect these arteries of
interstate commerce from industrial strife. The concept
of mediation is the antithesis of justiciability.
In view of the pattern of this legislation and its history
the command of the Act should be explicit and the purpose to afford a judicial remedy plain before an obligation enforcible in the courts should be implied. Unless
that test is met the assumption must be that Congress
fashioned a remedy available only in other tribunals.
There may be as a result many areas in this field where
neither the administrative nor the judicial function can be
utilized. But that is only to be expected where Congress
still places such great reliance on the voluntary process of
conciliation, mediation and arbitration. See H. Rep. No.
1944, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 2. Courts should not rush in
where Congress has not chosen to tread.
We are here concerned solely with legal rights under
this federal Act which are enforcible by courts. For
unless such a right is found it is apparent that this is not
a suit or proceeding "arising under any law regulating
commerce" over which the District Court had original
jurisdiction by reason of § 24 (8) of the Judicial Code,
28 U. S. C. § 41 (8). Cf. Puerto Rico v. Russell & Co.,
288 U. S. 476, 483; Gully v. FirstNational Bank, 299 U. S.
109; Peyton v. Railway Express Agency, 316 U. S. 350,
352. When a court has jurisdiction it has of course "authority to decide the case either way." The Fairv. Kohler
Die Co., 228 U. S. 22, 25. But in this case no declaratory
decree should have been entered for the benefit of any of

338

OCTOBER TERM, 1943.
Statement of the Case.

320 U.S.

the parties. Any decision on the merits would involve the
granting of judicial remedies which Congress chose not to

confer.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE RFD are of the
view that the Court should entertain jurisdiction of the
present controversy for the reasons set out in the dissent
in Switchmen's Union v. National MediationBoard, ante,
p. 307.
GENERAL COMMITTEE OF ADJUSTMENT OF THE
BROTHERHOOD OF LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEERS
FOR THE PACIFIC LINES OF SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. ET AL.
NO. 27.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

Argued October 14, 15, 1943.-Decided November 22, 1943.
Upon the authority of General Committee of Adjustment v. MissouriKansas-Texas R. Co., ante, p. 323, and Suitchmen's Union v. National Mediation Board, ante, p. 297, held that the questions in this
case-arising out of a so-called jurisdictional controversy between
labor unions-are not justiciable issues under the Railway Labor
Act and the District Court was without power to resolve them.

P. 343.
132 F. 2d 194, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 319 U. S. 736, on cross-petitions to review a
judgment which modified and affirmed a decree determining on the merits a suit for a declaratory judgment.
*Together with No. 41, General Grievance Committee of the
Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen v. General Com-

mittee of Adjustment of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers
for the Pacific Lines of Southern Pacific Co. et al, also on certiorari
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

