OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Syllabus.

273 U.S.

"The legislature may pass laws prescribing the qualification of practitioners of medicine in this state, and to
punish persons for malpractice, but no preference shall
ever be given by law to any schools of medicine."
The limitation of the provision is obviously directed to
the qualifications of those to be admitted to the practice of
their profession in the state and has nothing to do with
the qualifications of those who are to be allowed to practice in a state hospital or to participate in an educational
enterprise conducted by the state. Cf. Germany v. The
State, 62 Tex. Cr. Rep. 276; Ex parte Gerino, 143 Cal.
412; Harrisv. Thomas (Tex. Civ. App.), 217 S. W. 1068.
The action of the board does not violate rights or immunities guaranteed by either the state or the Federal Constitution.
Judgment affirmed.
TYSON AND BROTHER- UNITED THEATRE
TICKET OFFICES, INCORPORATED, v. BANTON,

DISTRICT ATTORNEY,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT O' NEW YORK

No. 261.

Argued October 6, 7, 1926.-Decided February 28, 1927.

1. Sections 167 and 172, c. 590, N. Y. Ls. 1922, the former declaring
that the price of or charge for admission to theatres, places of
amusement or entertainment, or other places where public exhibitions, games, contests or performances are held, is a matter
affected with a public interest, and the latter forbidding the resale
of any ticket or other evidence of the right of entry to any
theatre, etc., at a price in excess of fifty cents in advance of
the price printed on the face of such ticket or other evidence
of the right of entry, contravene the Fourteenth Amendment.
Pp. 429, 445.
2. The validity of the declaration (§ 167) that the price of admission is a matter "affected with a public interest," is in this
case necessarily involved in determining the question directly

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Syllabus.

presented, viz., the validity of the price restriction on resales
of tickets. P. 429.
3. The right of the owner to fix a price at which his property shall
be sold or used is an inherent attribute of the property itself,
and, as such, within the protection of the Due Process of Law
clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. P. 429.
4. The power to regulate property, services or business can be
invoked only under special circumstances; and it does not follow
that because the power may exist to regulate in some particulars
it exists to regulate in others or in all. P. 430.
5. The authority to regulate the conduct of a business or to require
a license, comes from a branch of the police power which may be
quite distinct from the power to fix prices. P. 430.
6. The power to fix prices does not exist in respect of merely
private property or business, but exists only where the business
or the property involved has become "affected with a public
interest." P. 430.
7. A business is not affected with a public interest merely because
it is large or because the public are warranted in having a feeling
of concern in respect of its maintenance. Nor is the interest
meant such as arises from the mere fact that the public derives
benefit, accommodation, ease or enjoyment from the existence
or operation of the business; and while the word has not always
been limited narrowly as strictly denoting "a right," that synonyma
more nearly than any other expresses the sense in which it is
to be understood. P. 430.
8. Characterizations of businesses as "quasi public, not strictly
private," and the like, while well enough as a basis for upholding
police regulations in respect of the conduct of particular businesses,
cannot be accepted as equivalents for the description "affected
with a public interest," as that phrase is used in the decisions
of this Court as the basis for legislative regulation of prices.
P. 430.
9. A declaration of the legislature that a business is affected with a
public interest is not conclusive upon the judiciary in determining
the validity of a regulation fixing prices in the business. P. 431.
10. The language of an opinion (Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 126)
must be limited to the case under consideration. P. 433.
11. A business or property, in order to be affected with a public
interest, must be such or be so employed as to justify the conclusion that it has been devoted to a public use and its use thereby,
in effect, granted to the public. P. 434.

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Argument for Appellant.

273 U. S.

12. Each of the decisions of this Court upholding governmental
price regulation, aside from cases involving legislation to tide over
temporary emergencies, has turned upon the existence of conditions, peculiar to the business under consideration, which bore
such a substantial and definite relation to the public interest
as to justify an indulgence of the legal fiction of a grant by the
owner to the public of an interest in the use. P. 438.
13. A theatre, though a license may be required, is a private enterprise; the license is not a franchise putting the proprietor under
a duty to furnish entertainment to the public and admit all who
apply. P. 439.
14. The contention that, historically considered, places of entertainment may be regarded as so affected with a public interest as to
justify legislative regulation of their charges, is rejected. P. 441.
15. A statutory provision fixing the prices at which theatre tickets
may be resold can not be sustained as a measure for preventing
fraud, extortion, and collusive arrangements between theatre managers and ticket brokers. P. 442.
16. Constitutional principles, applied as they are written, must be
assumed to operate justly and wisely as a general thing, and they
may not be remolded by lawmakers or judges to save exceptional
cases of inconvenience, hardship, or injustice. P. 445.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court denying a
temporary injunction in a suit brought by the appellant,
a licensed ticket-broker corporation in New York, to restrain the District Attorney of New York County and the
State Comptroller from forfeiting the license, forfeiting
the bond accompanying the same, and prosecuting criminal proceedings, under the state law, because of the
appellant's failure to conform to a provision thereof limiting the prices at which it may resell tickets, which it challenges as invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Mr. James Marshall
was on the brief, for appellant.
The business of a ticket broker is lawful and cannot
be prohibited. Theatre tickets are property in the constitutional sense. People ex rel. Tyroler v. Warden of

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Argument for Appellant.

City Prison, 157 N. Y. 116; People ex rel. Fleischmann
v. Caldwell, 64 App. Div. 46; aff'd 168 N. Y. 671; People
v. Marks, 64 Misc. Rep. 679; Collister v. Hayman, 183
N. Y. 250; Matter of Newman, 109 Misc. Rep. 622;
People v. Weller, 237 N. Y. 320.
It is unreasonable to suggest that the price of theatre
tickets is "affected with a public interest" when this is
not true of the prices of necessaries of life and wages.
The limitations on the power of the Legislature to fix
the price of commodities or of services, or to limit the
right to contract with regard to them, were stated in
People v. Budd, 117 N. Y. 15, aff'd sub nom. Budd v.
New York, 143 U. S. 517; People v. Weller, 237 N. Y.
322; Adkins v. Childrens Hospital, 261 U. S. 525; Adair
v. United States, 208 U. S. 174; Coppage v. Kansas, 236
U. S. 14. Distinguishing, Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 322;
Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135; Brown Holding Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170; and Levy Leasing Co. v. Siegel,
258 U. S. 242. Other applicable decisions are, Adams v.
Tanner, 244 U. S. 590; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S.
578; Carrollton v. Bazette, 159 Ill. 283; People ex rel.
Moskowitz v. Jenkins, 202 N. Y. 53; People ex rel. Tyroler
v. Warden, 157 N. Y. 116; Collister v. Hayman, 183 N. Y.
250; Producers Transp. Co. v. R. R. Comm'rs, 251 U. S.
230; Pub. Util. Comm. v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570; Frost v.
R. R. Comm., 271 U. S. 583.
Power tq fix the price of theatre tickets was denied in
People v. Newman, 109 Misc. Rep. 622; Ex parte Quarg,
149 Cal. 79; People v. Steele, 231 Ill. 340; Chicago v.
Powers, 231 Ill. 531; People v. Weiner, 271 Ill. 74; Chicago v. Netcher, 183 Ill. 104; People ex rel. Cort v.
Thompson, 283 Ili.' 87. Opinion of the Justices, 247
Mass. 589, was merely an advisory opinion.
Neither the business of conducting a theatre nor that of
a ticket broker is affected with a public interest. Wolff
Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522; 267 U. S.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Argument for Appellee.

273 U. S.

552; Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286; National Bank v.
Mechanics Nat. Bank, 94 U. S. 438; Rensselaer Glass
Factory v. Reid, 5 Cowen 608; Gray v. Bennet, 3 Metc.
522; Dunham v. Gould, 16 Johns. 367; Houghton v. Page,
2 N. H. 42; Mason v. Callender, 2 Minn. 350; Kermot
v. Ayer, 11 Mich. 181; Adriance v. Brooks, 13 Tex. 279.
Such cases as Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; and German
Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389, proceed upon
the principle that an emergency existed. See Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 293, and Adkins v.
Childrens Hospital, supra. Terminal Taxicab Co. v. District of Columbia, 241 U. S. 252, distinguished. See also
Yellow Taxicab Co. v. Gaynor, 82 Misc. Rep. 94; Schmidinger v. Chicago, 226 U. S. 578; Burns Baking Co. v.
Bryan, 264 U. S. 505; People ex rel. Armstrong v. Warden,
183 N. Y. 226. That even a theatre, and a fortiori, those
who are engaged in the business of selling tickets entirely
outside of the theatre, do not come within the purview of
the doctrine on which the State relies, is apparent from
the decisions in Collister v. Hayman, 183 N. Y. 250;
People ex rel. Burnham v. Flynn, 189 N. Y. 160; Aaron v.
Ward, 203 N. Y. 355, and Wolcott v. Shubert, 217 N. Y.
212. People v. King, 110 N. Y. 418 distinguished. People ex rel. Cort v. Thompson, 283 Ill. 87.
Mr. Felix C. Benvenga, with whom Messrs. Robert D.
Petty and Edwin B. McGuire were on the brief, foi,
appellee Banton.
The Court of Appeals of the State of New York has
upheld the statute in its entirety, People v. Weller, 237
N. Y. 316; aff'g 207 App. Div. 337, and this Court has
upheld it in part, Weller v. New York, 268 U. S. 319.
The statute was passed in 1922. During 1923, at least
three states passed statutes relating to the sale of tickets
to places of amusement. Illinois, L. 1923, p. 323; New
Jersey, L. 1923, p. 143, ch. 71; Connecticut, L. 1923, ch.

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Argument for Appellee.

48. During 1924, while a similar bill was pending in
the Massachusetts Senate, the Justices of the Supreme
Judicial Court, in a carefully considered advisory opinion, in which People v. Weller, supra, was cited with
approval, advised the Senate that the bill before it was
constitutional. Opinion of the Justices, 247 Mass. 589.
Thereafter, an act was passed, containing the substantial
features of the proposed bill. See Ls. Massachusetts,
1924, c. 497, p. 551. The conception of different lawmaking bodies that the business of selling theatre tickets
so far affects the public welfare as to require legislative
regulation, cannot have been accidental and without
cause. German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389.
Their determination, after investigation, must have
great weight. McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138; Radice v. New
York, 264 U. S. 292; Jones v. Portland, 245 U. S. 217;
Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135; Armour v. North Dakota,
240 U. S. 510; People ex rel. Durham v. La Fetra, 230
N. Y. 429; Schieffelin v. Hylan, 236 N. Y. 254. In determining whether local conditions justify state legislation, this Court should not only give great weight to the
estimate of the state Legislature as to the existence of
evils, but should give a cumulative effect to the recognition of the courts of the same state that those evils
exist. Green v. Frazier, 253 U. S. 233; Jones v. Portland, 245 U. S. 217; People v. Newman, 109 Misc. Rep.
622; People v. Weller, supra. To concede that the only
cure for the evil is some remedy initiated by the managers of the theatres is to admit that the State is powerless to promote the general welfare of the people and to
accomplish the purposes for which governments are
founded. People ex rel. Durham v. La Fetra, supra;
People v. Weller, supra.
The extent to which regulation may reasonably go
depends upon the nature of the business--whether it is

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

273 U. S.

"affected with a public interest "; the fact that it closely
touches a great many people, and that it may afford opportunities for imposition and oppression, as in cases of
monopoly and the like. The business of conducting a
theatre, though in one sense private, is not "strictly"
private; it is a business that is "affected with a public
interest," People v. King, 110 N. Y. 418; Aaron v. Ward,
203 N. Y. 351; People v. Weller, 237 N. Y. 322; People
ex rel. Cort Theatre Co. v. Thompson, 283 Ill. 87; Opinion of the Justices, 247 Mass. 589. It is because the business is affected with a public interest that governmental
regulation is justified. As the population becomes more
congested in great cities, as the hours of labor become
shorter, the necessity of affording recreation, amusement
and education to the inhabitants becomes more imperative. Therefore, the theatre becomes more essential to
the welfare of the public; it becomes more "affected with
a public interest." People v. Weller, supra; 37 Harvard
L. R. 1127. Historically considered, theatres may be
regarded as so affected. The Attic Theatre, Haigh, [3d
ed.] p. 4, 330; Theatre of the Greeks, Donaldson, 309;
15 Amer. Cyc. 685; 26 Ency. Brit. [11th ed.] 736; Law
of the Theatre, Wandell, p. 3. And in the United States,
theatres have been subject to governmental regulation
from earliest times, Opinion of the Justices, supra; People ex rel. Cort v. Thompson, supra; Cecil v. Green, 161
Ill. 265. The modern trend is shown by 19 R. C. L. 722.
See also Egan v. San Francisco, 165 Cal. 576; Los Angeles
v. Dodge, 51 Cal. App. 492; Schieffelinv. Hylan, 236 N. Y.
254; People ex rel. Cort v. Thompson, supra.
If the business of conducting a theatre is a business
affected with a public interest, that of reselling theatre
tickets is also affected. Opinion of the Justices, supra;
People v. Weller, supra. Assuming that the business may
not, in its origin, have been affected with a public interest,
yet because of the abuses which have grown up in con-

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Argument for Appellee.

nection with it, it has become so affected. German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, supra. Although the mere declaration by a legislature that a business is affected with
a public interest is not conclusive of the question whether
its attempted regulation on that ground is justified, yet
the indication by the legislature of its own purposes may
certainly, in some degree, guide the courts in their consideration of the validity of the legislative assertion of
power. People v. Weller, supra; Block v. Hith, supra;
Opinion of the Justices, supra. The general principle is
that a state legislature may, under its police power, regulate prices and charges; that the extent to which regulation may reasonably go depends upon the nature of the
business--whether it is "affected with a public interest ";
the fact that it touches a great many people, and that it
may afford opportunities for imposition and oppression,
as cases of monopoly and the like. Munn v. Illinois, 94
U. S. 113; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Brass v.
Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391; German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis,
233 U. S. 389; Block v. Hirsh, supra; Brown v. Feldman,
256 U. S. 170; Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262
U. S. 522. Since Munn v. Illinois (1876), this method of
regulation has been familiar in all American courts, and
many kinds of business carried on without special franchises or privileges have been treated as public in character, and declared subject to legislative control. Ratcliff
v. Stockyards Co., 74 Kan. 1; Opinion of the Justices,
supra, and many cases cited therein. The illustrations
given in the cases cited show that the doctrine of the
Munn case has not only been adhered to, but has been
expanded and advanced to meet conditions as they arose.
Burdick, Law of the Constitution, § 272; Producers
Transp. Co. v. R. R. Comm., 251 U. S. 228; People ex rel.
Durham v. La Fetra, supra; Frost v. R. R. Comm., 271
U. S. 589; People v. King, 110 N. Y. 418; Aaron v. Ward,
203 N. Y. 351; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3, dissent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

When evils are admitted, great discretion should be allowed the legislature in devising remedies. If it has been
demonstrated by experience that a remedy is not sufficient
to check the evil, then certainly the legislature can, under
the police power, adopt a new and more drastic remedy.
Power to adopt new remedies when old remedies fail is
illustrated by the legislation as to lotteries, carrying concealed weapons and regulating the sale of intoxicating
liquors. Ford v. State 85 Md., 465; Noble State Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Collisterv. Hayman, supra. The
Legislature was under a duty to pass the present statute
and fix a rate. Its inaction would have been a confession
that it was powerless to secure to its citizens the blessings
of freedom and to promote the general welfare. People
ex rel. Durham v. La Fetra 230 N. Y. 429; People v.
Schweinler Press, 214 N. Y. 395; State v. Harper, 148
Wis. 57; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133.
Mr. Robert P. Beyer, Deputy Attorney General of New
York, with whom Mr. Albert Ottinger,Attorney General,
was on the brief, for appellee Murphy.
MR. JUsTIcE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant is engaged in the business of reselling tickets
of admission to theatres and other places of entertainment in the City of New York. It employs a large number of salesmen, messenger boys and others. Its expenses
are very large, and its sales average approximately 300,000
tickets per annum. These tickets are obtained either
from the box office of the theatre or from other brokers
and distributors. It is duly licensed under § 168, c. 590,
New York Laws, 1922, and has given a bond under § 169
of that chapter in the penal sum of $1,000 with sureties,
conditioned, among other things, that it will not be guilty
of any fraud or extortion. See Weller v. New York, 268
U. S. 319, 322.

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Opinion of the Court.

Section 167 of chapter 590 declares that the price of or
charge for admission to theatres, etc., is a matter affected
with a public interest and subject to state supervision in
order to safeguard the public against fraud, extortion, exorbitant rates and similar abuses. Section 172 forbids
the resale of any ticket or other evidence of the right of
entry to any theatre, etc., "at a price in excess of fifty
cents in advance of the price printed on the face of such
ticket or other evidence of the right of entry," such printing being required by that section. Both sections are
reproduced in the margin.*
This suit was brought to enjoin respondents from proceeding either at law or in equity to enforce the last
named section, and from revoking plaintiff's license, enforcing by suit or otherwise the penalty of the bond or
prosecuting criminally appellant or any of its officers or
agents for reselling or attempting to resell any ticket or
other evidence of the right of entry to any theatre, etc.,
at a price in excess of fifty cents in advance of the printed
§ 167. Matters of Public Interest. It is hereby determined and
declared that the price of or charge for admission to theatres, places
of amusement or entertainment, or other places where public exhibitions, games, contests or performances are held is a matter affected
with a public interest and subject to the supervision of the state for
the purpose of safeguarding the public against fraud, extortion, exorbitant rates and similar abuses.
§ 172. Restriction as to Price. No licensee shall resell any such
ticket or other evidence of the right of entry to any theatre, place of
amusement or entertainment, or other place where public exhibitions,
games, contests or performances are given at a price in excess of fifty
cents in advance of the price printed on the face of such ticket or
other evidence of the right of entry. Every person, firm, or corporation who owns, operates or controls a theatre, place of amusement or
entertainment, or other place where public exhibitions, games, contests or performances are held shall, if a price be charged for admission thereto, print on the face of each such ticket or other evidence of
the right of entry the price charged therefor by such person, firm or
corporation.
*

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

price. The bill alleges threats on the part of appellees
to enforce the statute against appellant, to forfeit its
license, enforce the penalty of its bond and institute criminal prosecutions against appellant, its officers and agents.
It is further alleged that the terms of the statute are so
drastic and the penalties for its violation so great [imprisonment for one year or a fine of $250 or both] that appellant may not resell any ticket or evidence of the right
of entry at a price beyond that fixed by the statute even
for the purpose of testing the validity of the law; and that
appellant will be compelled to submit to the statute
whether valid or invalid unless its suit be entertained,
and thereby will be deprived of its property and liberty without due process of law and denied the equal
protection of the law, in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the federal Constitution. Following the
rule frequently announced by this court, that "equitable
jurisdiction exists to restrain criminal prosecutions under
unconstitutional enactments, when the prevention of such
prosecutions is essential to the safeguarding of rights of
property," we sustain the jurisdiction of the district court.
Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 143, and cases there
cited.
The case was heard below by a statutory court of three
judges and a decree rendered denying appellant's prayer
for a temporary injunction and holding the statute assailed to be valid and constitutional. The provision of
the statute in question also has been upheld in a judgment
of the New York state court of appeals, People v. Weller,
237 N. Y. 316, brought here on writ of error. That case,
however, directly involved only § 168, requiring a license,
and although it was insisted that § 172 restricting prices
should also be considered, upon the ground that the two
provisions were inseparable, this court held otherwise, sustained the validity of the license section and declined to

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Opinion of the Court.

pass upon the other one. Weller v. New York, 268 U. S.
319, 325.
Strictly, the question for determination relates only to
the maximum price for which an entrance ticket to a
theatre, etc., may be resold. But the answer necessarily
must be to a question of greater breadth. The statutory
declaration (§ 167) is that the price of or charge for admission to a theatre, place of amusement or entertainment
or other place where public exhibitions, games, contests or
performances are held, is a matter affected with a public
interest. To affirm the validity of § 172 is to affirm this
declaration completely, since appellant's business embraces the resale of entrance tickets to all forms of entertainment therein enumerated. And since the ticket broker
is a mere appendage of the theatre, etc., and the price of
or charge for admission is the essential element in the
statutory declaration, it results that the real inquiry is
whether every public exhibition, game, contest or performance, to which an admission charge is made. is clothed
with a public interest, so as to authorize a law-making
body to fix the maximum amount of the charge, which its
patrons may be required to pay.
In the endeavor to reach a correct conclusion in respect
of this inquiry, it will be helpful, by way of preface, to
state certain pertinent considerations. The first of these
is that the right of the owner to fix, a price at which
his property shall be sold or used is an inherent attribute
of the property itself, Case of the State Freight Tax, 15
Wall. 232, 278, and, as such, within the protection of the
due process of law clauses of the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments. See City of Carrolltonv. Bazzette, 159 Ill.
284, 294. The power to regulate property, services or
business can be invoked only under special circumstances;
and it does not follow that because the power may exist
to regulate in some particulars it exists to regulate in
others or in all.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

The authority to regulate the conduct of a business or to
require a license, Comes from a branch of the police power
which may be quite distinct from the power to fix prices.
The latter, ordinarily, does not exist in respect of merely
private property or business, Chesapeake & Potomac Tel.
Co. v. Manning, 186 U. S. 238, 246, but exists only where
the business or the property involved has become "affected with a public interest." This phrase, first used by
Lord Hale 200 years ago, Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113,
126, it is true, furnishes at best an indefinite standard, and
attempts to define it have resulted, generally, in producing
little more than paraphrases, which themselves require
elucidation. Certain properties and kinds of business it
obviously includes, like common carriers, telegraph and
telephone companies, ferries, wharfage, etc. Beyond
these, its application not only has not been uniform, but
many of the decisions disclose the members of the same
court in radical disagreement. Its full meaning, like that
of many other generalizations, cannot be exactly defined;it can only be approximated.
A business is not affected with a public interest merely
because it is large or because the public are warranted in
having a feeling of concern in respect of its maintenance.
Nor is the interest meant such as arises from the mere fact
that -the public derives benefit, accommodation, ease or
enjoyment from the existence or operation of the business;
and while the word has not always been limited narrowly
as strictly denoting "a right," that synonym more nearly
than any other expresses the sense in which it is to be
understood.
The characterizations in some decisions of businesses as
"quasi public," People v. King, 110 N. Y. 418, 428, "not
'strictly' private," Aaron v. Ward, 203 N. Y. 351, 356,
and the like, while well enough for the purpose for which
they were employed, namely, as a basis for upholding
police regulations in respect of the conduct of particular

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Opinion of the Court.

businesses, cannot be accepted as equivalents for the
description "affected with a public interest," as that
phrase is used in the decisions of this court as the basis for
legislative regulation of prices. The latter power is not
only a more definite and serious invasion of the rights of
property and the freedom of contract, but its exercise
cannot always be justified by circumstances which have
been held to justify legislative regulation of the manner
in which a business shall be carried on.
And, finally, the mere declaration by the legislature
that a particular kind of property or business is affected
with a public interest is not conclusive upon the question
of the validity of the regulation. The matter is one
which is always open to judicial inquiry. Wolff Co. v.
Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522, 536.
In the Wolff case, this court held invalid the wage fixing
provision of the compulsory arbitration statute of Kansas
as applied to a meat packing establishment. The power
of a legislature, under any circumstances, to fix prices or
wages in the business of preparing and selling food was
seriously doubted, but the court concluded that, even if
the legislature could do so in a public emergency, no such
emergency appeared, and, in any event, the power would
not extend to giving compulsory continuity to the business by compulsory arbitration. In the course of the
opinion (p. 535), it was said that business characterized
as clothed with a public interest might be divided into
three classes:
"(1) Those which are carried on under the authority of
a public grant of privileges which either expressly or
impliedly imposes the affirmative duty of rendering a
public service demanded by any member of the public.
Such are the railroads, other common carriers and public
utilities.
"(2) Certain occupations, regarded as exceptional, the
public interest attaching to which, recognized from earliest

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

times, has survived the period of arbitrary laws by Parliament or Colonial legislatures for regulating all trades and
callings. Such are those of the keepers of inns, cabs and
grist mills. State v. Edwards,86 Me. 102; Terminal Taxicab Co. v. District of Columbia, 241 U. S. 252, 254.
"(3) Businesses which though not public at their inception may be fairly said to have risen to be such and have
become subject in consequence to some government regulation. They have come to hold such a peculiar relation
to the public that this is superimposed upon them. In the
language of the cases, the owner by devoting his business
to the public use, in effect grants the public an interest in
that use and subjects himself to public regulation to the
extent of that interest although the property continues to
belong to its private owner and to be entitled to protection
accordingly." Citing the Munn case and others.
If the statute now under review can be sustained as
valid, it must be in virtue of the doctrine laid down in the
third paragraph; and it will aid in the effort to reach a
correct conclusion in that respect if we shall first consider
the principal decisions of this court where that doctrine
has been applied. The leading, as well as the earliest,
definite decision dealing with a business falling within
that class is Munn v. Illinois, supra, which sustained the
validity of an Illinois statute fixing the maximum charge
to be made for the use of elevators and warehouses for the
elevation and storage of grain.
As ground for that decision the opinion recites, among
other things, that grain came from the west and northwest
by water and rail to Chicago where the greater part of it
was shipped by vessel to the seaboard and some of it by
railway to eastern ports; that Chicago had been made the
greatest grain market in the world; and that the business
had created a demand for means by which the immense
quantity of grain could be handled or stored and these
had been found in grain elevators. In this way the largest

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

433

Opinion of the Court.

traffic between the country north and west of Chicago and
that lying on the Atlantic coast north of Washington, was
in grain passing through the elevators at Chicago. The
trade in grain between seven or eight of the great states of
the west and four or five of those lying on the sea-shore,
formed the largest part of the interstate commerce in
these states. The elevators in Chicago were immense
structures, holding from 300,000 to 1,000,000 bushels at
one time. Under these circumstances, it was said that the
elevators stood in the very "gateway of commerce" and
took toll from all who passed; that their business certainly
tended to a common charge and had become a thing of
public interest and use; that every bushel of grain for its
passage paid a toll, which was a common charge; and,
finally, that if any business could be clothed "with a
public interest, and cease to be jurisprivati only," this had
been made so by the facts.
There is some general language in the opinion which,
superficially, might seem broad enough to cover cases like
the present one. It was said, for example (p. 126):
" Property does become clothed with a public interest
when used in a manner to make it of public consequence,
and affect the community at large." Literally, that would
include all the large industries and some small ones; but
in accordance with the well settled rule the words must be
limited to the case under consideration. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155
U. S. 461, 474. Indeed, the language quoted is qualified
immediately by a statement of the general rule, that"When, therefore, one devotes his property to a use in
which the public has an interest, he, in effect, grants to
the public an interest in that use, and must submit to be
controlled by the public jor the common good, to the
extent of the interest he has thus created."
The significant requirement is that the property shall
be devoted to a use in which the public has an interest,
42847-27-28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

which simply means, as in terms it is expressed at page
130, that it shall be devoted to "a public use." Stated in
another form, a business or property, in order to be
affected with a public interest, must be such or be so
employed as to justify the conclusion that it has been
devoted to a public use and its use thereby, in effect,
granted to the public. See Louisville &c. R. R. Co. v.
West Coast Co., 198 U. S. 483, 500. The subsequent
elevator and warehouse cases, Budd v. New York, 143
U. S. 517, and Brass v. Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391, while presenting conditions of less gravity, rest upon the authority
of the Munn case. The differences among the three cases
are in matters of degree.
In Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., &c., 183
U. S. 79, 85, Mr. Justice' Brewer, speaking on that point
for himself and two other members of the court, said
that, tested by the Munn case, the stock yards of the
company, situated in one of the gateways of commerce
and so located that they furnished important facilities
to all seeking transportation of cattle, were subject to
governmental price regulation. But the majority of the
court, without referring to this view, assented to a reversal upon a ground specifically stated (pp. 114-115);
and the authority of the case must be limited by the
terms of that statement.
German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389, carries the doctrine further and marks the extreme limit to
which this court thus far has gone in sustaining price
fixing legislation. There the court said that a business
might be affected with a public interest so as to permit
price regulation although no public trust was impressed
upon the property and although the public might not
have a legal right to demand and receive service; and it
was held that fire insurance was such a business. Mr.
Justice McKenna, speaking for the court, pointed out
that in an insurance business each risk was not individual;

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Opinion of the Court.

that "there can be standards and classification of risks,
determined by the law of averages," and, while there
might be variations, that rates are fixed and accommodated to such standards. Discussing the question whether
the business was affected with a public interest so as to
justify regulation of rates, it was then said (p. 406):
"And we mean a broad and definite public interest. In
some degree the public interest is concerned in every
transaction between men, the sum of the transactions constituting the activities of life. But there is something
more special than this, something of more definite consequence, which makes the public interest that justifies
regulatory legislation."
The business of common carriers, transmission of intelligence, furnishing water and light, gas and electricity,
were cited as examples, and the Munn, Budd and Brass
cases reviewed. The fact that the contract of fire insurance was personal in character, it was said, did not
preclude regulation, and in that connection it was pointed
out that insurance companies were so regulated by state
legislation as to show that the law-making bodies of the
country, without exception, regarded the business of insurance as so far affecting the public welfare as to invoke
and require governmental regulation. And it was then
said (p. 412-413):
"Accidental fires are inevitable and the extent of loss
very great. The effect of insurance-indeed, it has been
said to be its fundamental object-is to distribute the
loss over as wide an area as possible. In other words,
the loss is spread over the country, the disaster to an
individual is shared by many, the disaster to a community shared by other communities; great catastrophes
are thereby lessened, and, it may be, repaired. In assimilation of insurance to a tax, the companies have been
said to be the mere machinery by which the inevitable
losses by fire are distributed so as to fall as lightly as

436

OCTOBER TERMI, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

possible on the public at large, the body of the insured,
not the companies, paying the tax."
And again (p. 413):
"Contracts of insurance, therefore, have greater public
consequence than contracts between individuals to do or
not to do a particular thing whose effect stops with the
individuals."
And again (p. 414):
"We have shown that the business of insurance has
very definite characteristics, with a reach of influence
and consequence beyond and different from that of the
ordinary businesses of the commercial world, to pursue
which a greater liberty may be asserted. The transactions of the latter are independent and individual, terminating in their effect with the instances. The contracts
of insurance may be said to be interdependent. They
cannot be regarded singly, or isolatedly, and the effect of
their relation is to create a fund of assurance and credit,
the companies becoming the depositories of the money
of the insured, possessing great power thereby and charged
with great responsibility."
Answering the objection that the reasoning of the
opinion would subject every act of human endeavor and
the price of every article of human use to regulation, it
was said (p. 415):
"And both by the expression of the principle and the
citation of the examples we have tried to confine our
decision to the regulation of the business of insurance, it
having become ' clothed with a public interest,' and therefore subject 'to be controlled by the public for the
common good.'"
This observation fairly may be regarded as a warning
at least to be cautious about invoking the decision as a
precedent for the determination of cases involving other
kinds of business. And this view is borne out by a general consideration of the case. The decision proceeds

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Opinion of the Court.

upon the ground that the insurance business is to be distinguished from ordinary private business; that an insurance company, in effect, is an instrumentality which
gathers funds upon the basis of equality of risk from A
great number of persons-sufficiently large in number to
cause the element of chance to step out and the law of
averages to step in as the controlling factor,-and holds
the numerous amounts so collected as a general fund to
be paid out to those who shall suffer losses. Insurance
companies do not sell commodities;-they do not sell
anything. They are engaged in making contracts with
and collecting premiums from a large number of persons,
the effect of their activities being to constitute a guaranty
against individual loss and to put a large number of individual contributions into a common fund for the purpose
of fulfilling the guaranty. In this fund all are interested,
not in some vague or sentimental way, but in a very real,
practical and definite sense. It was from the foregoing
and other considerations peculiar to the insurance business
that the court drew its conclusion that the business was
clothed with a public interest.
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332 (involving the Adamson
law), Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135, and Marcus Brown
Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170 (the rental cases), are
relied upon to sustain the statute now under review. But
in these cases the statutes involved were of a temporary
character, to tide over grave emergencies, Adkins v.
Children'sHospital,261 U. S. 525, 551-552, the emergency
in the New case being of nation-wide extent; and it is
clear that, in the opinion of this court, at least the business of renting houses and apartments is not so affected
with a public interest as to justify legislative fixing of
prices unless some great emergency exists. Block v.
Hirsh, supra, p. 157; Chastleton Corp. v. Sinclair, 264
U. S. 543, 548. And even with the emergency, the stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

utes "went to the verge of the law." Penna. Coal Co. v.
Mahon, 260 U. S. 393, 416.
Nor is the sale of ordinary commodities of trade affected
with a public interest so as to justify legislative price
fixing. This court said in Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court,
supra, p. 537:
"It has never been supposed, since the adoption of the
Constitution, that the business of the butcher, or the
baker, the tailor, the wood chopper, the mining operator
or the miner was clothed with such a public interest that
the price of his product or his wages could be fixed by
State regulation. It is true that in the days of the early
common law an omnipotent Parliament did regulate
prices and wages as it chose, and occasionally a Colonial
legislature sought to exercise the same power; but nowadays one does not devote one's property or business to
the public use or clothe it with a public interest merely
because one makes commodities for, and sells to, the
public in the common callings of which those above
mentioned are instances."
See also, United States v. Bernstein, 267 Fed. 295, 296.
From the foregoing review it will be seen that each of
the decisions of this court upholding governmental price
regulation, aside from cases involving legislation to tide
over temporary emergencies, has turned upon the existence of conditions, peculiar to the business under consideration, which bore such a substantial and definite
relation to the public interest as to justify an indulgence
of the legal fiction of a grant by the owner to the public
of an interest in the use.
Lord Hale's statement that when private property is
"affected with a public interest, it ceases to be juris
privati only," is accepted by this court as the guiding
principle in cases of this character. That this phrase was
not intended by its author to include private undertakings,
like those enumerated in the statute now under consid-

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Opinion of the Court.

eration, is apparent when we consider the connection in
which it was used. It occurs in Lord Hale's manuscript,
De PortibusMarts, 1 Harg. Law Tracts, 78, in which the
three-fold rights of the proprietor, the public and the
king in ports are considered. It first is pointed out that
no man can erect a public port without the king's license,
though if he set up a port for his private advantage he
may take what rates he and his customers can agree upon.
But, it is said, if the king or the subject have a public
wharf, to which all persons must come, because it is the
wharf only licensed by the king, or there is no other wharf
in that port, arbitrary and excessive charges cannot be
made. For it is then affected with a public interest and
ceases to be juris privati only; "as if a man set out a
street in new building on his own land, it is now no longer
b'are private interest, but it is affected with a public
interest."
It is clear that, as there announced, the rule is confined
to conveniences made public because the privilege of
maintaining them has been granted by government or
because there has arisen what may be termed a constructive grant of the use to the public. That this is what
Lord Hale had in mind is borne out, and the question
now under consideration is illuminated, by the illustration, which he evidently conceived to be pertinent, of a
street opened to the public, in which case the assumed
grant and resulting public right of use is very apparent.
A theatre or other place of entertainment does not meet
this conception of Lord Hale's aphorism or fall within
the reasons of the decisions of this court based upon
it. A theatre is a private enterprise, which, in its relation to the public, differs obviously and widely, both in
character and degree, from a grain elevator, standing at
the gateway of commerce and exacting toll, amounting to
a common charge, for every bushel of grain which passes
on its way among the states; or stock yards, standing in

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

like relation to the commerce in live stock; or an insurance company, engaged, as a sort of common agency, in
collecting and holding a guaranty fund in which definite
and substantial rights are enjoyed by a considerable portion of the public sustaining interdependent relations in
respect of their interests in the fund. Sales of theatre
tickets bear no relation to the commerce of the country;
and they are not interdependent transactions, but stand,
both in form and effect, separate and apart from each
other, "terminating in their effect with the instances."
And, certainly, a place of entertainment is in no legal
sense a public utility; and, quite as certainly, its activities are not such that their enjoyment can be regarded
under any conditions from the point of view of an
emergency.
The interest of the public in theatres and other places
of entertainment may'be more nearly, and with better
reason, assimilated to the like interest in provision stores
and markets and in the rental of houses and apartments
for residence purposes; although in importance it falls
below such an interest in the proportion that food and
shelter are of more moment than amusement or instruction. As we have shown, there is no legislative power to
fix the prices of provisions or clothing or the rental charges
for houses or apartments, in the absence of some controlling -emergency; and we are unable to perceive any
dissimilarities of such quality or degree as to justify a
different rule in respect of amusements and entertainments.
A theatre ticket may be in the form of a revocable
license or of a contract. If the former, it may be revoked
at the will of the proprietor; if the latter, it may be made
non-transferable or otherwise conditioned. A theatre, of
course, may be regulated so as to preserve the public
peace, insure good order, protect public morals, and the
like. A license may be required, but such a license is

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

Opinion of the Court.

n6t a franchise which puts the proprietor under the duty
of furnishing entertainment to the public or, if furnished,
of admitting everyone who applies. See Collister v. Htiyman, 183 N. Y. 250, 253. How far the power of the
legislature may be exerted to prevent discriminating selection by the proprietor of his patrons upon the basis of
race, color, creed, etc., People v. King, 110 N. Y. 418, need
not be determined; for in any event such power and the
other powers of regulation just enumerated fall far short
of the one here invoked to fix prices.
The contention that, historically considered, places of
entertainment may be regarded as so affected with a public interest as to justify legislative regulation of their
charges, does not seem to us impressive. It may be true,
as asserted, that, among the Greeks, amusement and instruction of the people through the drama was one of
the duties of government. But certainly no such duty devolves upon any American government. The most that
can be said is that the theatre and other places of entertainment, generally have been regarded as of high value
to the people, to be encouraged, but, at the same time,
regulated, within limits already stated. While theatres
have existed for centuries and have been regulated in a
variety of ways, and while price fixing by legislation is
an old story, it does not appear that any attempt hitherto
has been made to fix their charges by law. This is a fact
of some significance in connection with the historical
argument, and, when set in contrast with the practice in
respect of inn-keepers and others, whose charges have
been subjected to legislative regulation from a very early
period, it persuasively suggests that by general legislative
acquiescence theatres, historically, have been regarded
as falling outside the classes of things which should be
thus controlled. It will not do to say that this failure
of legislative bodies to act in the matter has been due
to the absence of complaints on the part of the public,

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

for it hardly is probable that a privilege as ancient and
as amply exercised as that of complaining about prices in
general, has not been freely indulged in the matter of
charges for entertainment. Indeed, it is judicially recorded that, as long ago as 1809, there was a riot in the
Royal Theatre, London, for the purpose of compelling a
reduction in prices of admission. In deciding a case growing out of the disturbance, Clifford v. Brandon, 2 Campb.
358, 368, the court summarily disposed of the claim that
people had a right to express their disapprobation of high
prices in such a tumultuous manner, by saying that "the
proprietors of a theatre have a right to manage their
property in their own way, and to fix what prices of admission they think most for their own advantage," and
that any person who did not approve could stay away.
If it be within the legitimate authority of government
to fix maximum charges for admission to theatres, lectures
(where perhaps the lecturer alone is concerned), baseball,
football and other games of all degrees of interest, circuses, shows (big and little), and every possible form of
amusement, including the lowly merry-go-round with its
adjunct, the hurdy-gurdy, Commonwealth v. Bow, 177
Mass. 347, it is hard to see where the limit of power in
respect of price fixing is to be drawn.
It is urged that the statutory provision under review
may be upheld as an appropriate method of preventing
fraud, extortion, collusive arrangements between the management and those engaged in reselling tickets, and the
like. That such evils exist in some degree in connection
with the theatrical business and its ally, the ticket broker,
is undoubtedly true, as it unfortunately is true in respect
of the same or similar evils in other kinds of business.
But evils are to be suppressed or prevented by legislation
which comports with the Constitution, and not by such
as strikes down those essential rights of private property
protected by that instrument against undue governmental

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

443

Opinion of the Court.

interference. One vice of the contention is that the statute itself ignores the righteous distinction between guilt
and innocence, since it applies wholly irrespective of the
existence of fraud, collusion or extortion (if that word
can have any legal significance as applied to transactions
of the kind here dealt with-Commonwealth v. O'Brien
& others, 12 Cush. 84, 90), and fixes the resale price as
well where the evils are absent as where they are present.
It is not permissible to enact a law which, in effect,
spreads an all-inclusive net for the feet of everybody
upon the chance that, while the innocent will surely be
entangled in its meshes, some wrong-doers also may be
caught.
What this court said in Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S. 590,
594, in the course of its opinion holding invalid a statute
of Washington penalizing the collection of fees for securing employment, is apposite:
"Because abuses may, and probably do, grow up in
connection with this business, is adequate reason for hedging it about by proper regulations. But this is not
enough to justify destruction of one's right to follow a
distinctly useful calling in an upright way. Certainly
there is no profession, possibly no business, which does
not offer peculiar opportunities for reprehensible practices; and as to every one of them, no doubt, some can
be found quite ready earnestly to maintain that its suppression would be in the public interest. Skillfully directed agitation might also bring about apparent condemnation of any one of them by the public. Happily
for all, the fundamental guaranties of the Constitution
cannot be freely submerged if and whenever some ostensible justification is advanced and the police power
invoked."
The evil of collusive alliances between the proprietors
of theatres and ticket brokers or scalpers seems to have
been effectively dealt with in Illinois by an ordinance

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

which required (1) that the price of every theatre ticket
shall be printed on its face and (2) that no proprietor,
employee, etc., of a theatre shall receive or enter into
any arrangement or agreement to receive more. This
ordinance was sustained as valid by the state supreme
court in The People v. Thompson, 283 Ill. 87, 97; and
that decision is cited here in support of the present statute. But the important distinction between that case and
this is that the ordinance did not forbid the resale of the
ticket by a purchaser of it for any price he was able to
secure, or forbid the fixing of any price by the proprietor
which he thought fit, provided that price was printed on
the face of the ticket.
That court had held in the earlier case of The People v.
Steele, 231 Ill. 340, 344, that the business of conducting a
theatre was a private one; that the legislature had the
power to regulate it as a place of public amusement and
might require a license; that the legislature had the same
power to regulate such a business as it had to regulate any
other private business, and no more. And an act which
prohibited the resale of tickets for more than the price
printed thereon was held to be invalid as an arbitrary and
unreasonable interference with the rights of the ticket
broker. It was distinctly held that the intending purchaser of the ticket had no right to buy at any price
except that fixed by the holder; that the manager might
fix the price arbitrarily, and raise or lower it at his will;
that having advertised a performance, he was not bound
to give it, and having advertised a price, he was not bound
to sell at that price; and that the business of dealing in
theatre tickets and the right to contract with regard to
them were entitled to protection. To the same effect, see
Ex parte Quarg, 149 Cal. 79.
This doctrine was reaffirmed in the Thompson case, but
held to have no application to the ordinance there considered and not to be inconsistent with the holding (p. 97)

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

that the manager of a place of public entertainment might
"be compelled to treat patrons impartially by putting an
end to an existing system by which theatre owners and
ticket scalpers are confederated together to compel a portion of the public to pay a different price from others."
It should not be difficult similarly to define and penalize
in specific terms other practices of a fraudulent character,
the existence or apprehension of which is suggested in
brief and argument. But the difficulty or even the impossibility of thus dealing with the evils, if that should be
conceded, constitutes no warrant for suppressing them by
methods precluded by the Constitution. Such subversions
are not only illegitimate but are fraught with the danger
that, having begun on the ground of necessity, they will
continue on the score of expediency, and, finally, as a mere
matter of course. Constitutional principles, applied as
they are written, it must be assumed, operate justly and
wisely as a general thing, and they may not be remolded
by lawmakers or judges to save exceptional cases of inconvenience, hardship or injustice.
We are of opinion that the statute assailed contravenes
the Fourteenth Amendment and that the decree must be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMEs, dissenting.

We fear to grant power and are unwilling to recognize
it when it exists. The States very generally have stripped
jury trials of one of their most important characteristics
by forbidding the judges to advise the jury upon the facts
(Graham v. United States, 231 U. S. 474, 480), and when
legislatures are held to be authorized to do anything considerably affecting public welfare it is covered by apologetic phrases like the police power, or the statement that
the business concerned has been dedicated to a public use.
The former expression is convenient, to be sure, to conciliate the mind to something that needs explanation: the
fact that the constitutional requirement of compensation

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

273 U. S.

when property is taken cannot be pressed to its grammatical extreme; that property rights may be taken for
public purposes without pay if you do not take too much;
that some play must be allowed to the joints if the machine is to work. But police power often is used in a wide
sense to cover and, as I said, to apologize for the general
power of the legislature to make a part of the community
uncomfortable by a change.
I do not believe in such apologies. I think the proper
course is to recognize that a state legislature can do whatever it sees fit to do unless it is restrained by some express
prohibition in the Constitution of the United States or of
the State, and that Courts should be careful not to extend such prohibitions beyond their obvious meaning by
reading into them conceptions of public policy that the
particular Court may happen to entertain. Coming down
to the case before us I think, as I intimated in Adkins v.
Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, 569, that the notion
that a business is clothed with a public interest and has
been devoted to the public use is little more than a fiction
intended to beautify what is disagreeable to the sufferers.
The truth seems to me to be that, subject to compensation
when compensation is due, the legislature may forbid or
restrict any business when it has a sufficient force of public opinion behind it. Lotteries were thought useful adjuncts of the State a century or so ago; now they are believed to be immoral and they have been stopped. Wine
has been thought good for man from the time of the
Apostles until recent years. But when public opinion
changed it did not need the Eighteenth Amendment, notwithstanding the Fourteenth, to enable a State to say that
the business should end. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623.
What has happened to lotteries and wine might happen to
theatres in some moral storm of the future, not because
theatres were devoted to a public use, but because people
had come to think that way.

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

STONE, J., dissenting.

But if we are to yield to fashionable conventions, it
seems to me that theatres are as much devoted to public
use as anything well can be. We have not that respect for
art that is one of the glories of France. But to many
people the superfluous is the necessary, and it seems to me
that Government does not go beyond its sphere in attempting to make life livable for them. I am far from
saying that I think this particular law a wise and rational
provision. That is not my affair. But if the people of
the State of New York speaking by their authorized voice
say that they want it, I see nothing in the Constitution
of the United States to prevent their having their will.
MR. JusTIce. BRANDEIS concurs in this opinion.

MIR. JusTicE STONE, dissenting.
I can agree with the majority that "constitutional
principles, applied as they are written, it must be assumed, operate justly and wisely as 4 general thing, and
they may not be remolded by lawmakers or judges to
save exceptional cases of inconvenience, hardship, or injustice." But I find nothing written in the Constitution,
and nothing in the case or common law development of
the Fourteenth Amendment, which would lead me to conclude that the type of regulation attempted by the State
of New York is prohibited.
The scope of our inquiry has been repeatedly defined
by the decisions of this Court. As was said in Munn v.
Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 132, by Chief Justice Waite, "For
us the question is one of power, not of expediency. If no
state of circumstances could exist to justify such a statute,
then we may declare this one void, because in excess of
the legislative power of the state. But if it could, we
must presume it did. Of the propriety of legislative interference within the scope of legislative power, the legisla-

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
STONE, J., dissenting.

273 U.S.

ture is the exclusive judge." The attitude in which we
should approach new problems in the field of price regulation was indicated in German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389, 409: "Against that conservatism of
the mind, which puts to question every new act of regulating legislation and regards the legislation invalid or
dangerous until it has become familiar, governmentstate and National-has pressed on in the general welfare; and our reports are full of cases where in instance
after instance the exercise of the regulation was resisted
and yet sustained against attacks asserted to be justified
by the Constitution of the United States. The dread of
the moment having passed, no one is now heard to say
that rights were restrained or constitutional guarantees
impaired." Again, in sustaining the constitutionality of
a zoning ordinance under the Fourteenth Amendment,
this Court has recently said, "Regulations, the wisdom,
necessity and validity of which, as applied to existing conditions, are so apparent that they are now uniformly sustained, a century ago, or even half a century ago, probably would have been rejected as arbitrary and oppressive." Village of Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272
U. S. 365.
The question with which we are here concerned is much
narrower than the one which has been principally discussed by the Court. It is not whether there is constitutional power to fix the price which theatre owners and
producers may charge for admission. Although the statute in question declares that the price of tickets of admission to places of amusement is affected with a public
interest, it does not purport to fix prices of admission.
The producer or theatre proprietor is free to charge any
price he chooses. The statute requires only that the sale
price, whatever it is, be printed on the face of the ticket,
and prohibits the licensed ticket broker, an intermediary

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

STONE,

J., dissenting.

in the marketing process, from reselling the ticket at an
advance of more than fifty cents above the printed price.'
Nor is it contended that this limit on the profit is unreasonable. It appears affirmatively that the business is
now being carried on profitably by ticket brokers under
this very restriction. But if it were not, there could be
judicial relief without affecting the constitutionality of
the measure. In these respects, the case resembles Munn
v. Illinois, supra, where the attempt was not to fix the
price of grain but to fix the price of the service rendered
by the proprietors of grain elevators in connection with
the transportation and distribution of grain, the cost of
which entered into the price ultimately paid by the consumer. The statute there, as the statute here, was designed in part to protect a large class of consumers from
'Turning to the broader question, the public importance of theatres
has been manifested in regulatory legislation in this country from the
earliest times. Beale, Innkeepers, § 325n; Cecil v. Green, 161 Ill. 265,
268. In New York, physical construction of theatres with respect to
fire escapes, exits and seating is regulated, Village Law, § 90, par. 25;
licenses to produce shows are required, Town Law, § 217; Sunday
entertainments of certain kinds, Penal Code, § 2145, cf. People v.
Hoym, 20 How. Prac. 76; Neuendorfi v. Duryea, 6 Daly 276; discrimination because of race or color, Penal Code, § 514, People v.
King, 110 N. Y. 418, or against persons wearing United States uniforms, Penal Code, § 517; appearance of children under fourteen upon
the stage, People v. Ewer, 141 N. Y. 129; admission of children under
sixteen, Penal Code, § 484; presentation of certain types of exhibitions, Penal Code, §§ 831, 833; or immoral shows and exhibitions,
Penal Code, § 1140a; or plays in which a living character represents
the Deity, Penal Code, § 2074; are all prohibited. Section 3657, Page,
Ohio Gen. Code, empowering municipalities to require licensing of
theatrical exhibitions and theatre ticket selling and § 12600-2 et seq.
regulating physical construction, etc., are typical of present day statutes. This Court has upheld legislation regulating admissions to public entertainments, Western Turf Association v. Greenberg, 204 U. S.
359; and providing for censorship of motion pictures, Mutual Film
Corp. v. Ohio IndustrialCommission, 236 U. S. 230.
42847'-27----29

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

273 U. S.

exorbitant prices made possible by the strategic position
of a group of intermediaries in the distribution of a product from producer to consumer.
There are about sixty first class theatres in the borough
of Manhattan. Brokers annually sell about two million
tickets, principally for admission to these theatres. Appellant sells three hundred thousand tickets annually.
The practice of the brokers, as revealed by the record,
is to subscribe, in advance of the production of the play
and frequently before the cast is chosen, for tickets covering a period of eight weeks. The subscriptions must be
paid two weeks in advance and about twenty-five per cent.
of the tickets unsold may be returned. A virtual monopoly of the best seats, usually the first fifteen rows, is
thus acquired and the brokers are enabled to demand
extortionate prices of theatre goers. Producers and
theatre proprietors are eager to make these advance sales
which are an effective insurance against loss arising from
unsuccessful productions. The brokers are in a position
to prevent the direct purchase of tickets to the desirable
seats and to exact from the patrons of the successful productions a price sufficient to pay the loss of those which
are unsuccessful, plus an excessive profit to the broker.
It is undoubtedly true as a general proposition that one
of the incidents of the ownership of property is the power
to fix the price at which it may be disposed. It may be
also assumed that as a general proposition, under the
decisions of this Court, the power of state governments
to regulate and control prices may be invoked only in
special and not well defined circumstances. But when
that power is invoked in the public interest and in consequence of the gross abuse of private right disclosed by
this record, we should make searching and critical examination of those circumstances which in the past have
been deemed sufficient to justify the exercise of the power,
before concluding that it may not be exercised here.

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

STONE,

J., dissenting.

The phrase "business affected with a public interest"
seems to me to be too vague and illusory to carry us very
far on the way to a solution. It tends in use to become
only a convenient expression for describing those businesses, regulation of which has been permitted in the past.
To say that only those businesses affected with a public
interest may be regulated is but another way of stating
that all those businesses which may be regulated are
affected with a public interest. It is difficult to use the
phrase free of its connotation of legal consequences, and
hence when used as a basis of judicial decision, to avoid
begging the question to be decided. The very fact that
it has been applied to businesses unknown to Lord Hale,
who gave sanction to its use, should caution us against
the assumption that the category has now become complete or fixed and that there may not be brought into it
new classes of business or transactions not hitherto
included, in consequence of newly devised methods of
extortionate price exaction.
The constitutional theory that prices normally may
not be regulated rests upon the assumption that the
public interest and private right are both adequately protected when there is "free" competition among buyers
and sellers, and that in such a state of economic society,
the interference with so important an incident of the
ownership of private property as price fixing is not
justified and hence is a taking of property without due
process of law.
Statutory regulation of price is commonly directed
toward the prevention of exorbitant demands of buyers
or sellers. An examination of the decisions of this Court
in which price regulation has been upheld will disclose
that the element common to all is the existence of a
situation or a combination of circumstances materially
restricting the regulative force of competition, so that
buyers or sellers are placed at such a disadvantage in the

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

273 U. S.

bargaining struggle that serious economic consequences
result to a very large number of members of the community. Whether this situation arises from the monopoly
conferred upon public service companies or from the circumstance that the strategical position of a group is such
as to enable it to impose its will in matters of price upon
those who sell, buy or consume, as in Munn v. Illinois,
supra; or from the predetermination of prices in the
councils of those who sell, promulgated in schedules of
practically controlling constancy, as in German Alliance
Ins. Co. v. Kansas, supra, or from a housing shortage
growing out of a public emergency as in Block v. Hirsh,
256 U. S. 135; Marcus Brown Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S.
170; Levy Leasing Co. v. Siegel, 258 U. S. 242; cf. Chastleton Corp. v. Sinclair, 264 U. S. 543, the result is the
same. Self interest is not permitted to invoke constitutional protection at the expense of the public interest and
reasonable regulation of price is upheld.
That should be the result here. We need not attempt
to lay down any universal rule to apply to new and
unknown situations. It is enough for present purposes
that this case falls within the scope of the earlier decisions
and that the exercise of legislative power now considered
was not arbitrary. The question as stated is not one of
reasonable prices, but of the constitutional right in the
circumstances of this case to exact exorbitant profits
beyond reasonable prices. The economic consequence of
this regulation upon individual ownership is no greater,
nor is it essentially different from that inflicted by regulating rates to be charged by laundries, Oklahoma Operating Co. v. Love, 252 U. S. 331 (semble), by anti-monopoly laws, Sunday laws, usury statutes, Griffith v. Connecticut, 218 U. S. 563; Workmen's Compensation Acts, New
York Central R. R. v. White, 243 U. S. 189; the zoning
ordinance upheld in Village of Euclid v. Ambler Realty
Co., supra; or state statutes restraining the owner of land

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

453

SromNE, J., dissenting.

from leasing it to Japanese or Chinese aliens, upheld in
Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197; Webb v. O'Brien,
263 U. S. 313; or state prohibition laws upheld in Mugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; or legislation prohibiting option
contracts for future sales of grain, Booth v. Illinois, 184
U. S. 425, or invalidating sales of stock on margin or for
"futures," Otis v. Parker,187 U. S. 606; or statutes preventing the maintenance of pool parlors, Murphy v. California, 225 U. S. 623, or in numerous other cases in which
the exercise of private rights has been restrained in the
public interest. Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S.
104; CentralLumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157;
St. Louis Poster Advertising Co. v. St. Louis, 249 U. S.
269; Terminal Taxicab Co. v. Dist. of Columbia, 241 U. S.
252; Mutual Loan Co. v. Martell, 222 U. S. 225; Schmidinger v. Chicago, 226 U. S. 578; cf. Green v. Frazier,253
U. S. 233; National Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U. S. 71;
Clark v. Nash 198 U. S. 361. Nor is the exercise of the
power less reasonable because the interests protected are
in some degree less essential to life than some others.
Laws against monopoly which aim at the same evil and
accomplish their end by interference with private rights
quite as much as the present law are not regarded as arbitrary or unreasonable or unconstitutional because they
are not limited in their application to dealings in the bare
necessities of life.
The problem sought to be dealt with has been the subject of earlier legislation in New York and has engaged the
attention of the legislators of other states.2 That it is
'An earlier crdinance of New York City, substantially similar to
the present act, was construed in People v. Newman, 109 Misc. 622,
overruled by People v. Weller, 237 N. Y. 316. Section 1534 Penal
Code, makes it a misdemeanor for brokers to sell tickets on the street.
Acts & Resolves of Mass. 1924, c. 497, controlling resale of tickets
with maximum brokerage charges similar to the New York statute
was approved in Opinion of Justices,247 Mass. 497. Conn. Pub. Acts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
SANFORD,

J., dissenting.

273 U. S.

one involving serious injustice to great numbers of indi-

viduals who are powerless to protect themselves cannot be
questioned. Its solution turns upon considerations of
economics about which there may be reasonable differences of opinion. Choice between these views takes us
from the judicial to the legislative field. The judicial
function ends when it is determined that there is basis for
legislative action in a field not withheld from legislative
power by the Constitution as interpreted by the decisions
of this Court. Holding these views, I believe the judgment below should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS join in

this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD, dissenting.

I regret that I cannot agree with the opinion of the
Court in this case. My own view is more nearly that
expressed by Mr. Justice Stone. Shortly stated, it is this:
The case, I think, does not involve the question whether
the business of theatre owners offering their separate
entertainments is so affected with a public interest that
the price which they themselves charge for tickets is subject to regulation by the legislature, but the very different
question whether the business of ticket brokers who intervene between the theatre owners and the general public in
the sale of theatre tickets is affected with a public interest,
and may, under the circumstances disclosed in this case, be
1923, c. 48; New Jersey Laws 1923, c. 71; Cal. Penal Code, § 526,
make it a misdemeanor to sell tickets in excess of the printed price.
The California Act was declared unconstitutional in Ex parte Quarg,
149 Cal. 79. A similar statute in Illinois was held invalid, People v.
Steele, 231 Ill. 340. A license ordinance of ticket peddlers was also
declared invalid in California. Ex parte Dees, 46 Cal. App. 656.
Those enactments are clearly more drastic than the New York statute.
A Chicago ordinance prohibiting secret alliances and profit sharing
between proprietors and scalpers was upheld. People v. Thompson,
283 Ill. 87. See also, Laws of Ill. 1923, p. 322.

TYSON & BROTHER v. BANTON.
418

SANFORD, J., dissenting.

regulated by the legislature to the extent of preventing
them from selling tickets at more than a reasonable advance upon the theatre prices. The facts stated by Mr.
Justice Stone are substantially those found by the District
Court. They show, as I think, clearly, that the ticket
brokers, by virtue of arrangements which they make with
the theatre owners, ordinarily acquire an absolute control
of the most desirable seats in the theatres, by which they
deprive the public of access to the theatres themselves for
the purpose of buying such tickets at the regular prices,
and are enabled to exact an extortionate advance in prices
for the sale of such tickets to the public.
In Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 132-although there
was no holding that the sale of grain was in itself a business affected with a public interest which could be regulated by the legislature-it was held that the separate
business of grain elevators, which " stood in the very gateway of commerce" in grain, "taking toll" from all who
passed and tending to a common charge, had become, by
the facts, clothed "with a public interest" and was subject to public regulation limiting the charges to a reasonable toll. So, I think, that here-without reference to the
character of the business of the theatres themselves-the
business of the ticket brokers, who stand in "the very
gateway" between the theatres and the public, depriving
the public of access to the theatres for the purchase of
desirable seats at the regular prices, and exacting toll from
patrons of the theatres desiring to purchase such seats, has
become clothed with a public interest and is subject to
regulation by the legislature limiting their charges to
reasonable exactions and protecting the public from extortion and exorbitant rates. See People v. Weller, 207 App.
Div. 337, 343, and 237 N. Y. 316, 331, in which the constitutionality of this statute was sustained by the New
York courts; and Opinion of the Justices to the Senate,
247 Mass. 589, 598. And in Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court,
262 U. S. 522, 535, it was recognized that a business,

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

although not public at its inception, might become clothed
with a public interest justifying some government regulation, by coming "to hold such a peculiar relation to the
public that this is superimposed" upon it. This, I think,
is the case here.
PAN AMERICAN PETROLEUM AND TRANSPORT

COMPANY

ET A.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 305. Argued October 4, 5, 1926.-Decided February 28, 1927.

1. The evidence sustains findings that the making of the leases and
contracts involved herein was dominated by the Secretary of the
Interior, acting collusively with the representative of the two defendant oil companies; that the Secretary of the Navy took no
active part in the negotiations; and that the leases and contracts
were procured by corruption and fraud. P. 498.
2. The finding that the Secretary of the Navy signed the documents
under misapprehension and without full knowledge of their contents
is not sustained. An opposite finding is required by the record.
P. 498.
3. In a suit by the United States to annul contracts made throuih its
officials with private corporations, the bona fides of which had been
investigated by a committee of the Senate, statements made to the
committee by the companies' representative, who voluntarily appeared in defense of their interests, showing that he gave money to
one of the officials who dominated the procurement and participated in the execution of the contracts, were admissible against the
defendant corporations in proof of fraud. P. 498.
So held where he who made the statements was the representative of both companies in procuring the contracts; was at that
time president of one company and chairman of the board of
directors of the other, having been its president also; controlled
both companies through stock ownership; and was chairman of
both boards of directors when he testified.

