L. & N. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

315

and it does not appear that in respect of most of them
there was even an attempt to comply. See and compare
Green v. Menominee Tribe, 233 U. S. 558, 568; Lease of
Indian Lands for Grazing Purposes, 18 Op. Atty. Gen.
235, 237; Indian Contact, Id., 497.
We agree with the conclusions of the court of first
instance, but are of opinion that the dismissal should
have been not upon the merits, but without prejudice
to a suit if properly brought. The decrees of both courts,
therefore, are erroneous, and the cause must be remanded
to the court of first instance with directions to dismiss
the bill, on the ground that the suit was brought by
counsel without authority, but without prejudice to the
bringing of any other suit hereafter by and with the authority of the alleged Pueblo of Santa Rosa. Other
grounds appearing from the record, which would lead to
the same result, we pass without consideration.
Decree reversed.
LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 61.

Argued January 6, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. A land-grant-aided railroad under a duty to carry government
troops at not to exceed fifty per cent. of the compensation charged
private parties for like transportation must allow the government

the benefit of this reduction from reduced party rates which are
offered the public. P. 323.
2. Where the railroad has accepted the usual transportation request
in issuing tickets for government transportation, it cannot avoid
the land-grant reduction from a reduced rate offered the public
upon the ground that by the tariff the rate was allowable only for
cash paid in advance. P. 323.

59 Ct. Cls. 886, affirmed.
42847--27-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

from a judgment of the Court of. Claims rejecting a claim of the Railroad on account of transportation
of men of the army and navy.
APPmAL

Mr. Benjamin Carter for the appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant owns and operates a system of railroads
among which are two land-grant aided lines. During the
period from 1911 to 1917 there were transported for the
Government over these lines upon transportation requests
large numbers of officers and enlisted men of the United
States army and navy. Individual passenger rates to
the public during that time were in force, and in addition certain party rates open to the public by which ten
or more passengers were entitled to reduced rates. Some
of the rate tariffs provided for cash payments when tickets
were issued and that there should be no land-grant
deductions made from such party rates. In other tariffs
no such provisions were made. As initial carrier, appellant presented its bills on proper forms to the disbursing
officers of the Government. In some of the bills individual rates with land-grant deductions were charged
where ten or more persons had been transported in troop
movement; and in others party rates without land-grant
deductions were charged, depending upon which was the
lower rate. The accounting officers of the Government
in all these cases applied party rates with land-grant
deductions. To these rulings appellant filed protests,
and this suit to recover the amounts involved followed.

L. & N. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
321

Opinion of the Court.

The court below denied appellant's right of recovery.
59 C. Cls. 886.
Appellant's contentions are (1) that the Government
in transporting troops has no right to avail itself of party
rates but that these are restricted to passengers traveling
on private account and (2) that if the Government avail
itself of the party rates it must pay cash in advance in
accordance with the tariff provisions.
It is not disputed that in virtue of valid acts of Congress (for example, see c. 115, 36 Stat. 243, 256) appellant's land-grant aided lines were bound to carry officers
and men of the army and navy at a rate, in the words
of the law, "not to exceed fifty per centum of the compensation for such government transportation as shall
at that time be charged to and paid by private parties
to any such company for like and similar transportation"
and that such amounts must "be accepted as in full for
all demands for such service." That the party rates,
being open to private parties, were open to the Government with a deduction of 50% under this express provision of the statute, does not admit of doubt.
Nor is there any merit in the contention that the Government may avail itself of the rate only by paying cash
in advance. Appellant issued the tickets and sent in
its bills therefor without asking for cash payments. It
thereby waived the requirement, if any existed, for payment in cash. Moreover, as the court below pointed out,
the Government from the very nature of things cannot
be required to deal for transportation on a cash basis.
It is not to be supposed that station agents generally are
familiar with the land-grant legislation or the limits of
the various land-grant lines so as to be able readily to
make the necessary computations. But, in any event,
the well settled practice of the Government is to issue
requisitions for transportation, and to require the rendition of bills therefor to be examined and audited by its

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

accounting officers. This method was recognized and
accepted by appellant in the present case. See Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. United States, 58 C. Cls. 622, 631.
Judgment affirmed.
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 82. Argued January 6, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
A claim for profits anticipated from the performance of a contract
with the Government cannot be based on delays caused by changes
made by the Government, when under the contract itself the remedy
for such delays was to be an extension of time to the contractor, and
when the contract was terminated by a supplemental agreement
expressly releasing all claims for such profits. P. 325.
60 Ct. Cls. 201, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims disallowing in part a claim under a contract to make Very
pistols for the Government.

Mr. Raymond M. Hudson for the appellant.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Assistant Attorney General Galloway were on the brief for the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought to recover upon a contract between appellant and the United States 'to manufacture a
large number of Very pistols. It was stipulated in the
contract that the Government might terminate it in whole
or in part at any time and in that event certain enumerated payments were to be made, not including, however,
prospective profits upon uncompleted articles. The contract provided that upon written notice the Government

