236

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

can not be calculated as part of the recovery in a cancellation case, and as just compensation, under the decision in the Seaboard Air Line case, 261 U. S. 299, must
include interest on the amount due from the time of cancellation, interest must be allowed here. The Government
argues that, as this contract was made after the power
of cancellation was given by the statute, its provision for
the cancellation must be regarded as written into the contract, Russell Motor Car Company v. United States, 261
U. S. 514; College Point Boat Corporation v. United
States, 267 U. S. 12; that, when so written in, cancellation
is part of the risk run under the contract, and, therefore,
that interest on the amount due under the contract can
not be collected, because of lack of specific agreement for
it under § 177 of the Judicial Code. This exact point
has never been decided by the Court. Several especially
set cases are now pending in which this is the sole issue
raised. As the case must go back for further consideration, we prefer to leave the point undecided and to await
the argument in those cases, which will probably be disposed of before the issue here will be ready for further
consideration by the Court of Claims in this case.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is reversed and
remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.
DE FOREST RADIO TELEPHONE COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 142. Argued January 20, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
A license to make and use a patented article does not depend on formal language, and, as a defense to a subsequent suit for infringement, a license may be inferred from the patent owner's words and
acts indicative of his consent, with a reservation of his right to
compensation. P. 241.
60 Ct. Cls. 1034, affirmed.

DE FOREST CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the petition in a suit to recover damages for
alleged unlawful use of patented articles by the United
States.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby for the appellant.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Claims dismissing the petition of the appellant, on the 4th
of May, 1925. This was before the effective date of the
Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, by which
direct appeals from the Court of Claims under §§ 242 and
243 of the Judicial Code were repealed and the review by
certiorari was substituted.
The De Forest Radio Telephone & Telegraph Company
filed its petition in the Court of Claims against the United
States, seeking to recover for an alleged unlawful use by
the Government of certain patented vacuum tubes or
audions, used in radio communication. The suit was
brought under the Act of June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat.
851, as amended by the Act of July 1, 1918, c. 114, 40 Stat.
704, 705. The Act of 1910 provided that whenever an
invention described in and covered by a patent of the
United States should thereafter be used by the Government without license of the owner or lawful right to use it,
the owner could recover reasonable compensation for the
use in the Court of Claims, provided that the United
States could avail itself of all defenses, general or special,
which might be pleaded by any other defendant charged
with infringement. The amending Act of 1918 enlarged
the scope of the Act by providing that the recovery by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

owner should include compensation for patented inventions used or made by or for the United States.
The petition showed, that the two patents involved in
the suit were granted to De Forest and by him were duly
assigned to the appellant, the company bearing his name,
and that that company executed and delivered to the
Western Electric Company a written instrument conveying certain rights in the patents, which were subsequently
conveyed to the American Telephone & Telegraph Company. This contract was set out in the petition. In consideration of one dollar and other good and valuable considerations, it granted a license to make, use, install, operate and lease, and to sell or otherwise dispose of to others
for sale, installation and operation, apparatus and systems
embodying or made or operating in accordance with the
invention. It purported to give this license for the full
terms of the patents and for all transferable rights of the
De Forest Company in the inventions, except such as were
expressly reserved by that company. The reservations
included nonassignable rights for the purpose of making
the articles in question for, and selling them to, the United
States Government for its use. The instrument further
provided that the Western Company and the De Forest
Company might respectively institute and conduct suits
against others for any of the patents within the fields in
which each respectively possessed rights, but that all such
suits should be conducted at the expense of the party
bringing them, that party to retain any judgment recovered in any such suits.
Paragraph 12 of the instrument provided that the Westerm Company might transfer to others, in whole or in
part, the rights granted by the instrument, and might
assign rights thereunder, or grant licenses, to various persons, firms or corporations for the several uses to which
the inventions were applicable. The petition further

DE FOREST CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236

Opinion of the Court.

alleges that the United States, being engaged in war,
informed the American Telephone & Telegraph Company
that it desired to have large numbers of the audions made
promptly for it by the General Electric Company and
others; and that the American Telephone & Telegraph
Company replied by writing to the Chief Signal officer of
the Army that it would not do anything to interfere with
the immediate manufacture of the audions, provided it
were understood and agreed that the Telephone & Telegraph Company "waived none of its claims under any
patents or patent rights owned by it on account of said
manufacture, and that all claims under patent rights and
all patent questions be reserved and later investigated,
adjusted and settled by the United States." The plan was
accepted by the United States, and the orders for said
audions were thereafter given by the United States to the
General Electric Company and the Moorhead Laboratories, Inc., who made them and delivered them to the
Government, which used them.
The petition further alleged, that, for the purpose of assisting the United States to obtain said audions promptly,
pursuant to the orders given, the American Telephone &
Telegraph Company furnished information, drawings
and blueprints to th6 General Electric Company, and permitted representatives and experts of the United States
and of said General Electric Company to witness and
study the manufacture of said audions by the Telephone
& Telegraph Company, all to the end that the audions
might be the more promptly made and delivered to the
United States for use in the war in which it was then
engaged.
After the filing of the petition in the suit, it was
amended by an averment that, after the audions were
made and used by the United States, negotiations were
carried on between it and the American Telephone Company, and that the latter company executed a release to

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

the United States and all manufacturers acting under its
orders of all claims for compensation for the making and
use of the audions, and that the release included "all
claims which had arisen or might thereafter arise, for
royalties, damages, profits or compensation for infringement of any or all letters patent owned or controlled by
the Telephone & Telegraph Company, whether expressly
recited therein or not, for the manufacture or use prior
thereto, and for use by the United States occurring thereafter."
The petition was demurred to, the demurrer was sustained and the petition dismissed. It is conceded by the
parties that, on the face of the petition, with the contracts
which were made exhibits, the De Forest Company and
the American Telephone & Telegraph Company had each
the right to license to the United States the making and
use of these audions, and that, if either did so license
them, it would be a complete defense to a claim by the
other for damages for the tort of infringement.
The sole question, therefore, which the Court of Claims
considered, and decided against the appellant, was whether
on the facts recited in the petition the American Telephone & Telegraph Company had in fact given a license
to the United States to have made and to use these
audions, covered by the patents. In other words, was the
claim which the American Telephone & Telegraph Company had against the United States for the manufacture
and use of the audions, based on a contract, or was it
based on a tort? If it was the former, it was a full defense
to any claim by the De Forest Company. If it was the
latter, the De Forest Company was entitled to recover
under the Act of 1918.
The appellant says that the necessary effect of the allegations of its petition is, that the Telephone Company
said to the United States, in answer to the United States'
notice that it wished to make and use the audions, "You

DE FOREST CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

236

will be infringing my rights. I shall not stop you but I
notify you that I shall hold you for such infringement,"
and therefore that the subsequent acts of the United
States and its manufacturers were torts. We think a different construction should be given the allegations. The
agreement by the Telephone Company that it would not
do anything to interfere with the immediate making of
the audions for the United States, interpreted in the light
of its subsequent action in assisting the United States to a
prompt making of the audions for its use, in furnishing the
needed information and drawings and blueprints for such
manufacture, and in giving to the experts of the United
States and its manufacturers the opportunity to witness
and study the manufacture of audions by the Telephone
Company, to the end that the audions might be more
promptly manufactured and delivered to the United States
for use in the war, made such conduct clearly a consent to
their manufacture and use, and a license, and this without
any regard to the effect of the subsequent release by the
Telephone & Telegraph Company of compensation for
such manufacture and use. No formal granting of a
license is necessary in order to give it effect. Any language used by the owner of the patent, or any conduct on
his part exhibited to another from which that other may
properly infer that the owner consents to his use of the
patent in making or using it, or selling it, upon which the
other acts, constitutes a license and a defense to an action
for a tort. Whether this constitutes a gratuitous license,
or one for a reasonable compensation, must of course depend upon the circumstances; but the relation between
the parties thereafter, in respect of any suit brought, must
be held to be contractual and not based on unlawful invasion of the rights of the owner. Concede that if the owner
had said, "If you go on and infringe my patent, I shall
not attempt to enjoin you, but I shall subsequently sue
you for infringement," the tort would not be waived42847-7

1

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

that is not this case. Here the circumstances show clearly
that what the Company was doing was not only fully consenting to the making and using by the United States of
the patent, but was aiding such making and using and, in
doing so, was licensing it, only postponing to subsequent
settlement what reasonable compensation, if any, it might
claim for its license. The case of Henry v. Dick, 224 U. S.
1, in its main point was overruled in the Motion Picture
Patents Company v. Universal Film Company, 243 U. S.
502; but that does not shake the authority of the language
of the Court in the following passage (p. 24):
"If a licensee be sued, he can escape liability to the
patentee for the'use of his invention by showing that the
use is within his license. But if his use be one prohibited
by the license, the latter is of no avail as a defense. As
a license passes no interest in the monopoly, it has been
described as a mere waiver of the right to sue by the
patentee," citing Robinson on Patents, §§ 806 and 808.
In this case the language used certainly indicated the
purpose of the Telephone Company not to seek an injunction against infringement, and not to sue for damages
therefor, but only to sue or seek for an amicable settlement by payment of just compensation. Such action by
the Telephone Company was a license, and constituted a
complete defense against a suit for infringement by the
De Forest Company.
Judgment affirmed.
HELLMICH, COLLECTOR, v. MISSOURI PACIFIC
RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO TEE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT

No. 507.

Argued January 18, 1927.--Decided February 21, 1927.

1. Messages transmitted for a railroad company by a telegraph company under a contract entitling each, in its business, to the "free"

