OKLAHOMA GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
Counsel for Parties.

OKLAHOMA NATURAL GAS COMPANY v.
OKLAHOMA.

SAME v. SAME

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLA OMA.

Nos. 154, 187.

Submitted January 3, 10, 1927-Decided February
21, 1927.

1. At common law, and by the rule in the federal courts, dissolution
of a corporation abates a litigation in which it is a necessary party.
P. 259.
2. A motion to substitute one corporation for another on the ground
that the latter has been dissolved and that its assets and obligations
have devolved upon the other, should not be allowed, though consented to by the opposite party to the suit, in the absence of a full
showing of the facts relating to the dissolution, its purpose and
effect. P. 261.
3. Liquidating trustees, if appointed under the state statute governing the dissolution of the corporation, should appear on the motion
for substitution in this court. P. 261.
Motions denied.

MoTIONS to substitute the Oklahoma Natural Gas Cor-

poration for the plaintiff in error, the Oklahoma Natural
Gas Company.
Mr. Lawrence H. Cake, in behalf of Mr. David A. Richardson, for the plaintiff in error, in support of the motion.
Messrs. George F. Short, Attorney General, and J. Berry
King, Assistant Attorney General, for the State of Oklahoma.

Mr. E. S. Ratliff for the Corporation Commission of
Oklahoma.
42947 °-27-

17

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

MR. CHmIF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These are motions for substitution of a new party
appellant in each cause. The motions are joined in by
the counsel of record for the defendants in error and
by the plaintiff in error. They show that the Oklahoma Natural Gas Company was a corporation of
the State of Oklahoma organized in the Indian Territory in October, 1906, to have existence for twenty
years, and that its charter would have expired by
legal limitation in October, 1926; that about September 15, 1926, after the writs of error in these cases
were allowed, the Oklahoma Natural Gas Company
was reorganized, the resulting corporation being named
the Oklahoma Natural Gas Corporation, organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Delaware; that
the reorganized corporation took over all the contracts,
franchises, property and assets of the Oklahoma Natural
Gas Company and assumed all the debts, liabilities and
obligations of that company, including the liability and
obligation to make the refund to the patrons of the Oklahoma Natural Gas Company involved in this action if
it should finally be held that the Oklahoma Natural Gas
Company itself had been obligated to make such refunds;
that the Oklahoma Natural Gas Corporation assumed the
performance of the public service theretofore performed
by the Oklahoma Natural Gas Company; that the new
corporation became and is the successor in law and in
fact of the Oklahoma Natural Gas Company; that the
latter company was by decree of the District Court of
Tulsa County, Oklahoma, duly and legally dissolved as
a corporation, and that, even if the decree had not been
rendered, it would have been dissolved by expiration of
the time limit in its charter in October, 1926. It is said
that the reorganized corporation both by its assumption

OKLAHOMA GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
257

Opinion of the Court.

thereof and by law is liable for the refunds or discounts
involved herein, if the order requiring them is valid,
and that the State of Oklahoma looks to and will look
to the reorganized corporation for the payment of the
same if the order is finally affirmed. The counsel for the
old company, the Attorney General of Oklahoma and the
counsel for the Corporation Commission of Oklahoma,
all sign the motion.
There is no specific provision in our rules for the substitution as a party litigant of a successor to a dissolved
corporation. It is well settled that at common law and
in the federal jurisdiction a corporation which has been
dissolved is as if it did not exist, and the result of the
dissolution can not be distinguished from the death of
a natural person in its effect. Mumma v. Potomac Company, 8 Pet. 281; National Bank v. Colby, 21 Wall. 609;
Pendleton v. Russell, 144 U. S. 640; Bank of United
States v. McLaughlin, Fed. Case No. 928; Greeley v.
Smith, Fed. Cases 5748; Walters v. Western & Atlantic
Railroad Co., 69 Fed. 679; Marion Phosphate Company
v. Perry, 74 Fed. 425; Board of Councilmen of the City
of Frankfort v. Deposit Bank of Frankfort, 120 Fed. 165;
United States v. Spokane Mill Company, 206 Fed. 999.
See also Edison Co. v. Westinghouse, 34 Fed. 232 and
Edison Co. v. United States Lighting Co., 52 Fed. 300.
It follows therefore that, as the death of the natural person abates all pending litigation to which such a person
is a party, dissolution of a corporation at common law,
abates all litigation in which the corporation is appearing either as plaintiff or defendant. To allow actions to
continue would be to continue the existence of the corporation pro hac vice. But corporations exist for specific
purposes, and only by legislative act, so that if the life
of the corporation is to continue even only for litigating
purposes it is necessary that there should be some statutory authority for the prolongation. The matter is

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

really not procedural or controlled by the rules of the court
in which the litigation pends. It concerns the fundamental law of the corporation enacted by the State which
brought the corporation into being.
This corporation is said to have been created before
Oklahoma became a state by the law of Indian Territory,
so we may presume that the corporation law of the State
of Oklahoma since enacted, Oklahoma Statutes, 1921, c.
34, Article V, sec. 5361, has full application. Shulthis v.
McDougal, 225 U. S. 561, 571-572. It provides:
"Unless other persons are appointed by the court, the
directors or managers of the affairs of such corporation at
the time of its dissolution are trustees of the creditors and
stockholders or members of the corporation dissolved, and
have full power to settle the affairs of the corporation,
and to collect and pay debts and divide among the stockholders the property which remains after the payment of
debts and necessary expenses; and for such purposes may
maintain or defend actions in their own names by the style
of the trustees of such corporation dissolved, naming it;
and no action whereto any such corporation is a party shall
abate by reason of such dissolution."
We have found no Oklahoma case that construes this,
provision with reference to the question now before the
Court. The language of the section would seem to indicate that as there is to be no abatement the Oklahoma
Natural Gas Company for litigating purposes is still in
being and continues to be a party before this Court.
The showing made for the motion is that the Oklahoma
Natural Gas Company was by a decree of the district
court of Tulsa County, Oklahoma, duly and legally dissolved as a corporation. There is nothing to indicate why
the company was dissolved. We may assume but we do
not know that it was in anticipation of its dissolution by
force of law and that the proceeding was undertaken in
order to transfer its assets, its obligations and its liabilities
to another corporation which is averred to be a corpora-

UNITED STATES v. RITTERMAN.
257

Syllabus.

tion of another State, to wit, of Delaware, although the
seal which is attached to the consent of the Oklahoma
Natural Gas Corporation by its president and secretary
and accompanies the motion, shows that it was incorporated not in Delaware but in Maryland.
The motion is signed by counsel for the plaintiff in
error, the Oklahoma Natural Gas Company. He does
not explain how he continues to represent plaintiff in
error, if in fact it has ceased to be, as he represents to
this Court.
In the absence of a fuller showing as to just what the
proceeding was in the district court of Tulsa County in
respect to the dissolution of the old company, and in view
of the provisions of the Oklahoma statute, we think it
unwise to grant the motion for substitution, even though
with the consent of the defendants in error. It may be
that with the disclosure of all the facts and circumstances
we may find that what was done with the consent of all
the parties to this suit is in fact a novation which we can
make effective. United States v. City Bank, 19 How.
385; Ex parte Railroad, 95 U. S. 221, 222.
We are not advised as to whether, at the time of the
dissolution of the corporation by time, liquidating trustees
of the old company were appointed under the statute. If
they were, then they should appear in this proceeding.
The motions to substitute are denied, without prejudice
to a renewal on a fuller showing.
Motions denied.
UNITED STATES v. RITTERMAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 669.

Argued January 19, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. The crime of smuggling as defined by § 593(a) of the Tariff Act of
1922 is consummated if dutiable merchandise is clandestinely

