OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

FRED T. LEY & COMPANY INC. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 125. Argued January 14, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
In a suit to recover the cost of public liability insurance paid under
a building contract allowing reimbursement for such insurance "as
the contracting officer might approve or require," a finding by the
Court of Claims that there was no evidence that the expenditure
was required or approved will not be reviewed by this Court.
P. 387.
60 Ct. Cls. 654, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim for money expended for liability insurance
in connection with building operations under a government contract.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Messrs. William B.
King and George R. Shields were on the brief, for appellant.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Assistant Attorney General Galloway were on the brief for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellant entered into a contract with the government
for the construction of certain army cantonment buildings
at Camp Devens, Massachusetts, upon a cost-plus basis.
The contract provided for the reimbursement of the contractor for all expenditures made in performance of the
contract, including the cost of "such bonds, fire, liability
and other insurance as the Contracting Officer [might]
approve or require; . . ." Appellant brought suit in
the Court of Claims to recover the cost of public liability
insurance effected by it in connection with the perform-

LEY & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
386

Opinion of the Court.

ance of its contract. That court found that the evidence
failed to show that the liability insurance in question
was ever required or approved by the contracting officer
of the government or any person representing him or
performing his duties, and gave judgment for the government. 60 Ct. Cls. 654.
On appeal to this Court, Jud. Code, §§ 242 and 243,
before the amendment of 1925, appellant seeks to avoid
the effect of this finding by pointing out that all the contracts for the construction of army cantonments during
the late war were identical in form and that recovery has
been allowed for the cost of public liability insurance in
connection with the construction of Camp Zachary
Taylor, Kentucky, in Mason & Hanger Co. v. United
States, 56 Ct. Cls. 238; affirmed, 260 U. S. 323; and of
Camp Grant, Illinois, in Bates & Rogers Const. Co. v.
United States, 58 Ct. Cls. 392. It is urged that the
records in those cases show a blanket approval by the
government of the expenditures made for liability insurance in the construction of all the army cantonments.
But the Court of Claims specifically found that there was
no evidence that the present expenditure was required or
approved. By that finding we are concluded. Luckenbach Steamship Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 533;
Rogers v. United States, 270 U. S. 154, 162. Moreover,
in Mason & Hanger v. United States, supra, the court's
finding was that the contracting officer had merely
approved the particular insurance involved in that suit.
In Bates & Rogers Const. Co. v. United States, supra,
the court based its decision upon a stipulation that the
case should be controlled by the decision of this Court
in the Mason case. No substantial question is presented
by the appeal.
Judgment affirmed.

