VAJTAUER v. COMM'R OF IMMIGRATION. 103
Syllabus.

100

open the way for evasion. Obviously the face or par
value of the stock transferred is to be determined by an
inspection of the instrument which alone fixes par value,
namely, the corporate charter. The statements in the
certificate of incorporation as amended and not those appearing on the face of the stock certificates control. It
follows that the measure of the tax here was the actual
par value of the stock transferred and that a recovery
of the excess tax paid should have been allowed.
This conclusion is not inconsistent with the decision
in United States v. Isham, 17 Wall. 496, urged in support
of the assessment as made. There, in applying a documentary tax, the form and terms of the instrument controlled in determining whether the instrument was subject to the tax. Compare Malley v. Bowditch, 259 Fed.
809; Danville Building Ass'n. v. Pickering,294 Fed. 117;
Haverty Furniture Co. v. United States, 286 Fed. 985;
Merchants' Warehouse Co. v. McClain, 112 Fed. 787;
Granby Mercantile Co. v. Webster, 98 Fed. 604. But
here the tax was levied on the transfer rather than on
any particular document and applies to transfers not
evidenced by a writing. It is measured by evidence
extrinsic to any document to which the stamp is affixed,
found only in the corporate charter.
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES

EX

REL.

VAJTAU-ER v. COMMIS-

SIONER OF IMMIGRATION.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 111.

Argued November 24, 29, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. Want of due process in proceedings for the deportation of an alien
is not established by showing merely that the decision was erroneous or that incompetent evidence was received and considered.

P, 106,

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

2. Insofar as concerns proofs, an order of deportation is upheld, in
habeas corpus, if there was some evidence to support it and no
error so flagrant as to convince a court of the essential unfairness
of the trial. P. 106.
3. Statements of an alien tending to show that he belonged to an
excluded class at time of entry may be used in deportation proceedings, whether made before or after his admission. P. 110..
4. Evidence of identity of an alien with the author of seditious pamphlets and speeches may be found in a similarity of names, appellations, nativity, etc. P. 111.
5. The silence of the alien without sufficient explanation, when called
upon to testify, may be persuasive evidence against him, even as
to incriminating matters, when they are not privileged. P. 111.
6. The privilege against self-incrimination may be waived if not
timely asserted. P. 113.
15 Fed. (2d) 127, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court dismissing a writ of habeas corpus.
Mr. Walter H. Pollak, with whom Messrs Isaac Shorr
and Carol Weiss King were on the brief, for the appellant.
Solicitor General Mitchell for the appellee.
MR. JUSTCE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Vajtauer, appellant, was arrested in deportation proceedings on a warrant issued April 4, 1924, by the
Assistant Secretary of Labor, charging that Vajtauer, an
alien, had entered the United States, December 1, 1923,
in violation of the Act of October 16, 1918, c. 186, 40
Stat. 1012, as amended by the Act of June 5, 1920, c. 251,
41 Stat. 1008, printed so far as relevant in the margin.
'The following classes are excluded from admission:
"(a) Aliens who are anarchists;
"(b) Aliens who advise, advocate, or teach, or who are members of
or affiliated with any organization, association, society, or group, that
advises, advocates, or teaches, opposition to all organized government;
"(c) Aliens who believe in, advise, advocate, or teach, or who are
members of or affiliated with any organization, association, society or
group, that believes in, advises, advocates, or teaches: (1) the overthrow by force or violence of the Government of the United States
or of all forms of law.,

VAJTAUER v. COMM'R OF IMMIGRATION. 105
103

Opinion of the Court.

The particular violations of the statute alleged were that
prior to or at the time of his entry, appellant (1) believed
in and advocated the overthrow of the government of the
United States or all forms of law; (2) wrote, published,
circulated or had in his possession for circulation written
or printed matter advocating opposition to all organized
government; (3) wrote, published, circulated or had in
his possession for circulation written or printed matter
advocating the overthrow by force or violence of the government of the United States or of all forms of law.
After a hearing before an immigration inspector, and
a review of all the proceedings by the Board of Review,
the Secretary of Labor, upon the recommendation of that
board, ordered deportation. While in the custody of the
Commissioner of Immigration at the Port of New York,
the alien assailed the legality of his detention in a petition for a writ of habeas corpus which was issued by the
District Court for southern New York. Upon the return
of the writ and after a hearing, that court dismissed the
writ, remanded appellant to the custody of the Commissioner and stayed deportation pending an appeal. 15
Fed. (2d) 127. The case comes here on direct appeal, on
the ground that appellant was denied rights guaranteed by
the Fifth Amendment of the federal Constitution. § 238
Jud. Code, prior to the amendment of February 13, 1925.
"(d) Aliens who write, publish, or cause to be written or published,
or who knowingly circulate, distribute, print, or display, or knowingly
cause to be circulated, distributed, printed, published, or displayed,
or who knowingly have in their possession for the purpose of circulation, distribution, publication, or display, any written or printed
matter, advising, advocating, or teaching, opposition to all organized
government, or advising advocating or teaching: (1) the overthrow
by force or violence of the Government of the United States or of all
forms of law, . .. "
Section 2 provides for the deportation of those who at any time
after entering this country are found to have been at the time of
entry members of the excluded class.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

The constitutional questions assigned are (1) that the
deportation order was unsupported by any substantial
evidence and consequently appellant was denied a fair
hearing and deprived of his liberty without due process;
(2) that the action of the immigration authorities in
drawing certain inferences from his refusal to answer
questions asked, deprived him of the protection against
self incrimination accorded by the Fifth Amendment.
Deportation without a fair hearing or on charges unsupported by any evidence is a denial of due process which
may be corrected on habeas corpus. Cf. Chin Yow v.
United States, 208 U. S. 8; Kwock Jan Fat v. White,
253 U. S. 454. But a want of due process is not established by showing merely that the decision is erroneous,
Chin Yow v. United States, supra, 13, or that incompetent evidence was received and considered. See Tisi v.
Tod, 264 U. S. 131, 133. Upon a collateral review in
habeas corpus proceedings, it is sufficient that there was
some evidence from which the conclusion of the administrative tribunal could be deduced and that it committed
no error so flagrant as to convince a court of the essential
unfairness of the trial. Tisi v. Tod, supra.
The ultimate question presented by this record, therefore, is whether the warrant of deportation was supported
by any evidence that the alien when he entered the
United States advocated opposition to all organized government or the overthrow of the United States government by force and violence, within the meaning of the
statute. This requires a review of the evidence.
At the hearing before the immigration authorities on
May 14, 1924, appellant, who was represented by counsel, was sworn as a witness, gave his name as Emanuel
Vajtauer and his occupation as "Doctor of Psychology,"
and editor of the "Spravedlvost," a Bohemian newspaper published in Chicago. He testified that he resided
in Illinois; that he entered the United States on Decem-

VAJTAUER v. COMM'R OF IMMIGRATION. 107
103

Opinion of the Court.

ber 1, 1923; and that he was a citizen of Czechoslovakia
by birth. After answering other preliminary questions,
he was then asked: "Why did you come to the United
States?" Appellant's attorney then stated: "I will advise the alien not to answer any further questions until
the evidence upon which the warrant is based will be
presented here." - Appellant then stated that he would
follow his attorney's advice, and gave no further testimony. The Immigration Inspector introduced in evidence, a pamphlet, stated by him to bear the name of
Dr. E. M. Vajtauer as author. An interpreter testified
that it was Dr. Vajtauer's study of the Russian Revolution. The title, as printed in the record, was "Revolution and the Dictatorship of the Proletariat, by Dr.
E. Dajtauer, written in Moscow in the Spring of 1920."
Translations of certain passages from the pamphlet by
the interpreter were spread upon the record. Some of
these excerpts merely gave an account of the Russian
Revolution and the revolutionists' own justification for
their overthrow of the Russian government. Others,
printed in the margin, purported on their face to advocate the overthrow of government by revolution or force. 3
'It was argued here that the objection took this form because
counsel at the hearing labored under the misapprehension that the
former rules which entitled an alien at the beginning of the hearing
to inspect the warrant of arrest and all the evidence on which it was
issued, were still in force. These rules had been changed before the
first hearing of May 14, 1924. Even if counsel was unaware of the
changes at that time, the hearing was not resumed until August 27,
1924, when the government's case was closed. Counsel declined an
invitation to have the alien testify in his own behalf or to permit his
examination although all the evidence on which the warrant was based
had been presented. No reason for his not testifying was given.
*" Only when you kill the bourgeois-capitalist, only then you will
be free. By this kind of primitive logic it is usually necessary to
lead the revolting soldier, in order that he should not unnecessarily
sacrifice himself and others.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.

108

273 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Inspector also placed in evidence a newspaper
published by the Slovak Labor Socialist Federation of
America, containing a report of a speech stated in the
record to have been made by a Dr. Vajtauer, the editor
of the Bohemian daily, "Spravedlvost." In this address
the causes and effects of the world war and of the revolutionary movements in Europe were described from the
"During the attack, the revolution must be merciless. It must
destroy the old system, not leaving even a single stone unturned.
"The people, who suffered too long, will knock to the ground the
socialist traitors and bourgeois, and will punish with death any
attempt of resistance. They have a right to do that! Others have
killed millions of their brothers previously. The lowest, the most
suffering class of people has seized the rule into its own hands. It
took away every chance of the murderers for further oppression and
crime. It dictates quietly to the farmer vampires. It carries on the
dictatorship of the proletariat!
"This is the first problem of the proletarian dictatorship, and that
is to capture the murderers and traitors of the people, the imperialists,
militarists, capitalists, bourgeoisie and social-democrats and prevent
them from committing any further crimes.
"Should the Bohemian worker have as much courage as the Russian
worker has, he would see quickly the necessity of seizing the rule of
factory into his own hands and expel/ the owner of the factory who
has no right to own the property of the factory. The plant, which
is to supply the needs of the people, belongs to the people, and must
be run only by the people, only by the working people. The means
of production are not a private property, they are the people's property. Private property is only a masked loot of people's property.
The government, which recognizes private property, is the government which recognizes the looting the people, and how the robbers
are treated? They are treated so that they are not given chance to
loot. The robber should be locked up, irons should be put on his
wrists, and guard placed to watch him ....
*X

*

*

"

(

"Revolution is a sudden expansion of the people which suddenly
abolishes the injustice piled for centuries. The proletarian dictatorship is an armed guard of liberties gained by revolution."

VAJTAUER v. COMM'R OF IMMIGRATION. 109
103

Opinion of the Court.

viewpoint of the proletariat. The speaker predicted a
much fiercer revolutionary struggle in this country than
that which took place in Europe and the concluding paragraphs, printed in the margin,' suggest at least that the
speaker advocated such a revolution. Other documentary evidence received consisted of an abridged report of
the "Fourth Congress of the Communist International,
Meetings held at Petrograd and Moscow, November 7 and
December 3, 1922," containing a statement purported to
have been made by a Dr. Vajtauer, Czechoslovakia, on
Czechoslovakian affairs.
4 " Pointing out the proletariat of America, the speaker said, that
when the time comes when the American proletariat, which have
tasted a bit of the capitalistic luxuries, will find itself deprived of
these luxuries, then the American proletariat will be much more revolutionary than that of Europe, it is hard to preach revolution to the
full stomach, but once this stomach is empty it revolts, and seeks the
means to obtain the -supplies. The speaker pictured the American
proletariat as a mole, which got hold of a bone thrown from the
capitalistic table, to satisfy the hunger of this mole. He predicted
much fiercer revolutionary struggle in this country than that which
took place in Europe, much more blood will be shed in this country
than was shed in Europe.
"Toward the end of his speech, the speaker predicted that the
next large war will be between the European countries and America,
because America being a creditor, would in due time demand the
payment of debt from debtors, and these being poor, would try to
repudiate the American debt, this naturally would lead to war, and
it would be up to the proletariat to stop the war of this kind, because
the proletariat once more would be asked to supply the army. The
speaker pointed out the Communistic government of Russia as an
example for the proletariat of the other countries of the world, further he said, that there is a probability of another great war and this
war may be the war between the United States Proletariat countries
of Europe, against the capitalistic America, and then the proletariat
of America would find itself in the position either to fight the proletariat of Europe, or else fight against its own capitalists, and it is up
to the conscientious leaders of the proletariat to prepare the workers
for this fatal moment,"

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

Under instructions of his attorney, appellant refused
to answer further questions calculated to establish his
identity with the author of the painphlet and with the
Dr. Vajtauer who made the address reported in the newspaper article and the Dr. Vajtauer who addressed the
Congress of the Communist International.
A point much argued before us was whether § 23 of the
Immigration Law of May 26, 1924, c. 190, 43 Stat. 165,
which took effect before the hearing was closed, placed on
appellant the burden of proving that he was not a member
of a class of aliens excluded from entering the United
States by the Immigration laws. Section 23 provides in
part: "and in any deportation proceeding against any
alien the burden of proof shall be upon such alien to show
that he entered the United States lawfully." It was
plausibly urged that the language of the statute as well
as its legislative history indicates that this clause relates only to the proof of the regularity of the alien's
entry with respect to time, place, manner and the like,
and not to his membership in an excluded class. But we
find it unnecessary to consider this question, as we think
that the record taken as a whole and without the aid
of any statutory presumption presents some evidence
supporting the deportation order.
We disregard the Moscow address as having no substantial bearing on appellant's membership in an excluded
class. But the extracts from the pamphlet and the report
of the Chicago speech, taken together, are at least some
evidence tending to show that the author of them advised
and advocated opposition to all organized government and
the overthrow of the United States government by violence, and therefore could, as an alien, be excluded from
admission into the United States by the provisions of § 1
of the Act of June 5, 1920, supra,or if admitted, deported
if found to have been a member of an excluded class at
the time of entry (§ 2). Statements made before or after

VAJTAUER v. COMM'R OF IMMIGRATION. 111
103

Opinion of the Court.

entry may be taken to indicate that he was subject to
exclusion at the time of entry.
The only other issue on which the government was
required to present evidence, assuming that the burden
of proof rested on it, was the identity of the appellant,
admittedly an alien, with the author of the pamphlet and
the address. The similarity of names; the fact that each
was known as "Doctor"; that a Dr. Vajtauer, also of
Czechoslovakia, as was appellant, addressed the Fourth
Congress of the Communist International on Czechoslovakian affairs in Moscow where the pamphlet was written, and that after the arrival of appellant in the United
States and his proceeding to Chicago, a Dr. Vajtauer, who
was editor of the Bohemian daily paper, "Spravedlvost,"
as was appellant, made a public address in Chicago, discussing the Russian revolution and suggesting the possibilities of a similar revolution here, all taken together
admit of the inference that the appellant and the author
of the pamphlet and speech were one and the same person.
This inference was strengthened when the appellant, confronted by this record, stood mute.
"Conduct which forms a basis for inference is evidence.
Silence is often evidence of the most persuasive character." Bilokumsky v. Tod, 263 U. S. 149, 153-4. Appellant as a witness was called upon to testify whether he
was the author of the pamphlet and the Chicago speech,
facts within his knowledge. If the author, he was in a
position to challenge or explain away if possible any
unfavorable inference which might be drawn from the
passages read into the record. His silence without explanation other than that he would not testify until the
entire evidence was presented, was in itself evidence that
he was the author. In addition, it fortified the inferences
drawn from the pamphlet and speech by the immigration
authorities.
Attention is directed to the fact that the refusal to
testify was based upon a supposed right of the witness

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

not to be called upon to testify until all the evidence in
support of the warrant was presented, and it is said that
if silence is induced by a person's "doubts of his rights or
by a belief that his security will be best promoted by his
silence; then no inference of assent can be drawn from
that silence." Citing Comm. v. Kenny, 12 Metc. 235,
237; People v. Pfanschmidt, 262 Ill. 411, 449. But these
cases merely apply the rule that no inference may be
drawn from silence where there is no duty to speak, a
rule which is not applicable where the witness is sworn
and under a legal duty to give testimony which is not
privileged. Undoubtedly, inferences from silence should
be cautiously drawn, Bilokumsky v. Tod, supra, but the
weight to be given to silence is for the tribunal conducting
the trial.
It is said also that the evidentiary effect of silence was
limited by the decision in Bilokurnsky v. Tod, supra, to
a refusal to testify as to non-incriminating facts only.
Although the inference from silence in that case pertained
to non-incriminating facts, there was no intimation there
that inferences could not be drawn from a failure to
testify to incriminating matters which are not privileged.
Here as in that case the objection to drawing the inference
can have force only insofar as there was a denial of the
constitutional immunity.
It is insisted that answers to the questions put to appellant at the hearings which were held in Chicago might
have tended to incriminate him under the Illinois Syndicalism Law, Ill. R. S. 1925, c. 38, §§ 587-593, which condemns as a felony the advocacy or publication of matter
advising crime or violence or other unlawful means of
accomplishing the reformation or overthrow of the government. Assuming that the constitutional immunity
against self-incrimination may be violated as well by
inferences drawn from silence with respect to incriminating matters as by testimony which the witness is compelled to give, still it is necessary to inquire whether the

WAGGONER ESTATE v. WICHITA COUNTY. 113
103

Syllabus.

appellant here has brought himself within the protection
of the immunity.
Throughout the proceedings before the immigration
authorities, he did not assert his privilege or in any
manner suggest that he withheld his testimony because
there was any ground for fear of self-incrimination. His
assertion of it here is evidently an afterthought. It is
for the tribunal conducting the trial to determine what
weight should be given to the contention of the witness
that the answer sought will incriminate him, Mason v.
United States, 244 U. S. 362, a determination which it
cannot make if not advised of the contention. Cf. In re
Edward Hess & Co., 136 Fed. 088; Ex parte Irvine, 74
Fed. 954, 960. The privilege may not be relied on and
must be deemed waived if not in some manner fairly
brought to the attention of the tribunal which must pass
upon it. See In re Knickerbocker Steamboat Co., 139
Fed. 713; United States v. Skinner, 218 Fed. 870, 876;
United States v. Elton, 222 Fed. 428, 435. This conclusion makes it unnecessary for us to consider the extent to
which the Fifth Amendment guarantees immunity from
self-incrimination under state statutes or whether this case
is to be controlled by Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; Brown
v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 608; compare United States v.
Saline Bank, 1 Pet. 100; Ballmann v. Fagin, 200 U. S.
Judgment affirmed.
186, 195.
WAGGONER ESTATE ET AL. v. WICHITA COUNTY
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 52. Argued December 3, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. Under Judicial Code § 238, before the Act of February 13, 1925,
a decree of the District Court in a suit wherein its jurisdiction was
based on the sole ground that substantial constitutional questions
were involved, was appealable directly to this Court. P. 116.
42847°-27-8

