McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.

135

Syllabus.

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 28.

Argued December 5, 1924.-Decided January 17, 1927.

1. Deputies, with authority to execute warrants, may be appointed
by the Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate, under a standing order of
the Senate, such appointments being sanctioned by practice and by
acts of Congress fixing the compensation of the appointees and
providing for its payment. P. 154.
2. Such deputy may serve a warrant of attachment issued by the
President of the Senate and addressed only to the Sergeant-atArms, in pursuance of a Senate resolution contemplating service
by either. P. 155.
3. A warrant of the Senate for attachment of a person who ignored
a subpoena from a Senate committee, is supported by oath within
the requirement of the Fourth Amendment when based upon the
committee's report of the facts of the contumacy, made on the
committee's own knowledge and having the sanction of the oath of
office of its members. P. 156.
4. Subpoenas issued by a committee of the Senate to bring before it
a witness to testify in an investigation authorized by the Senate,
are as if issued by the Senate itself. P. 158.
5. Therefore, in case of disobedience, the fact that the subpoena, and
the contumacy, related only to testimony sought by a committee,
is not a valid objection to a resolution of the Senate, and warrant
issued thereon, requiring the defaulting witness to appear before the
bar of the Senate itself, then and there to give the desired
testimony. P. 158.
6. Each house of Congress has power, through its own process, to
compel a private individual to appear before it or one of its committees and give testimony needed to enable it efficiently to exercise a legislative function belonging to it under the Constitution.
P. 160.
7. This has support in long practice of the houses separately, and in
repeated Acts of Congress, all amounting to a practical construction
of the Constitution. Pp. 161, 167, 174.
8. The two houses of Congress in their separate relations have not
only such powers as are expressly granted them by the Constitution, but also such auxiliary powers as are necessary and appro-

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

273 U. S.

priate to make the express powers effective, but neither is invested
with "general" power to inquire into private affairs and compel
disclosures. P. 173.
9. A witness may rightfully refuse to answer where the bounds of the
power are exceeded or the questions are not pertinent to the matter
under inquiry. P. 176.
10. A resolution of the Senate directing a committee to investigate
the administration of the Department of Justice-whether its functions were being properly discharged or were being neglected or
misdirected, and particularly whether the Attorney General and
his assistants were performing or neglecting their duties in respect
of the institution and prosecution of proceedings to punish crimes
and enforce appropriate remedies against the wrongdoers, specific
instances of alleged neglect being recited,--concerned a subject on
which legislation could be had which would be materially aided by
the information which the investigation was calculated to elicit.
P. 176.
11. It is to be presumed that the object of the Senate in ordering
such an investigation is to aid it in legislating. P. 178.
12. It is not a valid objection to such investigation that it might
disclose wrong-doing or crime by a public officer named in the
resolution. P. 179.
13. A resolution of the Senate, directing attachment of a witness who
had disobeyed a committee subpoena to such an investigation, and
declaring that his testimony is sought with the purpose of obtaining
"information necessary as a basis for such legislative and other
action as the Senate may deem necessary and proper," supports
the inference, from the earlier resolution, of a legislative object.
The suggestion of "other action" does not overcome the other
part of the declaration and thereby invalidate the attachment
proceedings. P. 180.
14. In view of the character of the Senate as a continuing body, and
its power to continue or revive, with its original functions, the committee before which the investigation herein involved was pending,
the question of the legality of the attachment of the respondent as
a contumacious witness did not become moot with the expiration of
the Congress during which the investigation and the attachment
were ordered. P. 180.
299 Fed. 620, reversed.

APPEAL from a final order of the District Court, in
habeas corpus, discharging the respondent, Mally S.

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Argument for Appellant.

Daugherty, from the custody of John J. McGrain, Deputy
Sergeant at Arms of the Senate, by whom he had been
arrested, as a contumacious witness, under a warrant of
attachment, issued by the President of the Senate in pursuance of a Senate resolution.
Mr. George W. Wickersham, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, with whom Attorney General Stone
and Mr. William T. Chantland, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, were on the brief, for the appellant.
Each House of Congress has power to conduct an investigation in aid of its legislative functions, to compel
attendance before it of witnesses and the production of
books and papers which may throw light upon the subject
of inquiry; subject, of course, to protection against the
invasion of such privileges as those against unreasonable
searches and seizures, self-incrimination and the like.
This power is for the purpose of aiding each House more
fitly to discharge its legislative duties. The investigation
ordered by the Senate resolution of March 1st was of that
character; and the court below erred in the construction
it put upon the resolution and in holding the entire proceeding void. For many years it has been the practice
of both Houses of Congress to conduct investigations into
matters of public interest within the general domain of
federal jurisdiction, and to summon witnesses to appear
and give testimony and produce books and papers bearing upon the questions under investigation. See §§ 102
and 104, Revised Statutes. The power of the respective
Houses to compel the attendance and testimony of witnesses in order to secure information necessary or useful
to enable them to perform their legislative functions was
thus recognized by law, and defiance of that power made
punishable as a crime against the United States. This
was without impairing in the slightest the right of a House
to employ the power regarding contempt to compel obedi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellant.

273 U. S.

ence to its orders. In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661. The
power of each House was asserted from the beginning, not
because it was exercised by the House of Commons in
England, but because it is "necessary or proper for carrying into execution" the powers vested by the Constitution
in Congress, and each House thereof.
In December, 1859, the Senate, by resolution, appointed
a committee to inquire into the facts concerning the invasion and seizure of the armory and arsenal at Harper's
Ferry and to report facts and recommend legislation, the
committee to have power to send for persons and papers.
In February, 1860, a resolution was adopted directing the
Sergeant-at-Arms to take into his custody the body of
Thaddeus Hyatt, and to have the same forthwith before
the bar of the Senate to answer as for a contempt of its
authority. Pursuant to this resolution, Hyatt was
brought before the bar, and a resolution was adopted,
after a long debate, by a vote of 44 ayes and 10 noes,
directing him to be committed by the Sergeant-at-Arms
to the common jail of the District of Columbia, to be
kept in close custody until he should signify his willingness to answer the questions propounded by the Senate.
Con. Globe, 1st Sess. 36th, pp. 1102, 1105. In upholding the existence of the power, the Senate did not divide
on sectional lines, and the vote was overwhelmingly in
support of the asserted power.
The question seems never to have been squarely decided
in this Court. In some cases, the point was expressly
reserved for future decision; in others there are expressions of opinion strongly favoring the existence of the
power. Kilbournv. Thompson, 103 U.S. 168. SeeBurnham v. Morrissey, 14 Gray, (Mass.) 226; Anderson v.
Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204.
The Massachusetts court in the above case did not
reach its conclusions from any analogy to the privileges
of Parliament, nor from any residuum of power left in

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Argument for Appellant.

the legislature because not taken away by the state constitution. The power was recognized as necessary to the
functions expressly delegated to the legislature by the
constitution. The same principle is equally applicable
to each House of Congress under the Constitution of the
United States:
The point was reserved, in Harrimanv. Interstate Commerce Comm., 211 U. S. 407, and Henry v. Henkel, 235
U. S. 219. Kilbour v. Thompson, supra, and Interstate
Commerce Comm. v. Brimson. 154 U. S. 447, seem slightly
hostile to such a power. Marshall v. Gordon, 243 U. S.
521, 543, contains an argumentative dictum in favor of
the right. See the instances of legislative action cited,
with approval, on the margin of the report. Cf. Hinds'
Precedents, Vol. 3: 21, 24.
A final proof that the express constitutional grant of
certain judicial powers to Congress, or a House thereof,
does not negative the implication of further powers of
that nature, (See Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. at p. 232,)
exists in the fact that the Constitution expressly forbids
the exercise of the parliamentary judicial power of passing bills of attainder. Art. I, § 9. Where there are both
express grants and express prohibitions, the application of
the principle expressio unius is self-contradictory, and so
the field is left clear for ordinary implication with no bias
ab initio against it.
The matter in the Kilbourn case was a settled debt, an
executed transaction, one that should not be undone by
legislative but only by judicial act, if at all, and which
was being considered in the District Court which was the
proper forum of the bankruptcy proceedings. In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661, is of value here chiefly for the presumption of validity conceded to the Senate's resolution.
The opinion shows that the usual presumption of validity
of legislative acts applies to the resolution of a single
House, indicates a qualification on the KiIbourn case, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellant.

273 U. S.

disposes of the District Court's point in the present case,
that a legislative purpose was not expressly averred in the
original resolution but only in the one directing Daugherty's arrest. It also shows that that case is not to be
distinguished on the ground that the proceedings were
under the statute, but that the Senate could have proceeded directly.
In Marshall v. Gordon, 243 U. S. 521, "the contempt
relied upon was not intrinsic to the right of the House to
preserve the means of discharging its legislative duties"
(p. 546). That is to say, while the right to punish contempts obstructing legislation was upheld, the letter sent
by Marshall was not deemed to amount to an obstruction.
The rule to be derived from these contempt cases may
be summarized thus: in addition to the express power to
"punish its members for disorderly behavior," Constitution, Art. I, § 5, each House has an implied power to
punish outsiders for contempts, Anderson v. Dunn, supra;
but no such power is implied in aid of a proceeding outside
the jurisdiction of the House, Kilbourn v. Thompson,
supra; however, a presumption of validity attaches to a
resolution of either House, just as to legislation of both
Houses jointly, so that all doubts are to resolved in its
favor, In re Chapman, and an investigation of a public
officer or department is therefore presumed legislative in
purpose and therefore valid until the contrary is shown,
Marshall v. Gordon, semble.
The power rests upon the well-settled rule of unexpressed power necessary or proper to the exercise of express powers, being recognized by the Courts as necessarily
a part of the constitutional grant. The leading case of
course is McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316. That
the principle of that case justifies the implication in
favor of either House of Congress having power to punish
contempts, is recognized in Marshall v. Gordon, p. 537.
Multiplication of the cases following McCulloch v. Maryland, or of the practical arguments to show that the

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Argument for Appellant.

gathering of information by the compulsion of contempt
proceedings is appropriate, if not imperative, for legislation under modern conditions, seems unnecessary.
A similar question arises where boards or commissions
exercising delegated legislative power seek to compel testimony and the production of documents in the aid of its
exercise. Harrimanv. Interstate Commerce Comm., 211
U. S. 407, and the language of the majority opinion is
qualified by Smith v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 245
U. S. 33. While the cases last cited are not controlling,
they indicate a trend away from the idea expressed in the
earlier cases and the opinion in the court below, that testimony can be compelled only in an investigation into a
specific breach of existing law-a judicial inquiry. Furthermore, the case for a House of Congress investigating
by its own committee is much stronger than that of an
administrative body acting under delegated powers.
The question of the power of either House to compel
testimony in aid of legislation has not been decided
adversely in any of the inferior federal courts. See Ex
ParteNugent, Fed. Cas., 10375 (1848) ; In re Pacific Railway Comm., 32 Fed., 241; Henry v. Henkel, supra; and
207 Fed. 805; Briggs v. Mackeller, 2 Abbott's Practice,
N. Y., 30; United States v. Sinclair, 52 Wash L. Rep. 451
[July, 1924].
A number of state court decisions have upheld the existence of the power here contended for. Briggs v. Maokellar, 2 Abbott's Practice, N. Y., 30 (1835); People v.
Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463 (1885); Matter of Barnes, 204 N. Y.
108 (1912); Burnham v. Morrissey, 14 Gray 226; State
v. Guilbert, 75 Ohio St. 1, distg.; State v. Brewster, 89
N. J. L. 658 (1916); In re Falvey, 7 Wis. 630 (1858);
Ex parte Parker, 74 S. C. 466 (1906).
It is submitted that the District Court's distinction
between the rule which obtains in States where the whole
legislative power is vested in the legislature and those

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellant.

273 U. S.

where all powers not expressly granted are reserved to
the people, is wholly unsound in its application to the
The rule
powers of Congress under the Constitution.
finally worked out by the courts and expressed by Chief
Justice White in Marshall v. Gordon, supra, is based upon
the doctrine of the grant by the Constitution of all powers
necessary or proper to the use of the powers expressly
granted. Each House has power to do whatever is customarily required to enable it intelligently to participate
in the making of laws. Such implied power cannot be
reserved to the States, respectively, or to the people, for
it can only be exercised by the House itself. If it be not
vested in such House, it exists nowhere. That it does
exist in each House, and constantly has been exercised for
nearly a century past, is abundantly demonstrated.
The English cases dealing with the powers of the House
of Commons to compel testimony and punish for contempt of its process are interesting as furnishing an historical background but are not otherwise of great importance, their authority having been rejected by the Supreme
Court (Kilbourn v. Thompson, supra,) disregarded in
Massachusetts and rejected in New York, both of which
uphold the power (Burnham v. Morrissey, supra, People
v. Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463, 473,) and rejected in Ohio which
denies it (State v. Guilbert, supra,) Regina v. Paty, 2 Ld.
Raym., 1105; Murray's case, 1 Wils. 299; Brass Crosby's
Case, 3 Wils., 188; Rex v. Flower, 8 T. R., 314; Burdett
v. Abbott, 14 East, 1; Stockdale v. Hansard,9 Ad. & E. 1;
Stockdale v. Hansard,11 Ad. & E. 253; Case of Sheriff of
Middlesex, 11 Ad. & E. 273.
Colonial Cases: Beaumont v. Barrett,1 Moo. P. C., 59;
Kielley v. Carson, 4 Moo. P. C., 63; Fenton v. Hampton,
11 Moo. P. C. 347; Doyle v. Falconer,L. R., 1 P. C., 328;
Ex parte Dansereau, XIX Lower Canada Jurist, 210;
Ex parte Brown, 5 B. & S., 280.
The investigation ordered by the Senate, in the course
of which the testimony of Appellee and the production of

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Argument for Appellant.

books and records of the bank of which he is president
were required, was legislative in its character. The investigation of the Attorney General's office was the exact
action ordered. It is impossible to separate the person
occupying that office, and his assistants, from the office;
and the resolution of March 1st directed the committee
to investigate circumstances and facts concerning the
alleged failure of the Attorney General to prosecute and
defend cases wherein the Government of the United
States was interested, and to inquire into his activities and
those of his assistants in the Department, which would
in any manner tend to impair their efficiency or influence
as representatives of the Government. The resolution of
April 26th, by which the issuance of a warrant was ordered to bring the body of the Appellee before the bar
of the Senate, then and there to answer questions pertinent to the matter under inquiry, is predicated upon a
recital that "the appearance and testimony of the said
M. S. Daugherty is material and necessary in order that
the committee may properly execute the functions imposed upon it and may obtain information necessary as
a basis for such legislative and other action as the Senate
may deem necessary and proper." See Chapman case, 166
U. S. 661; People v. Keeler, supra; Kilbourn v. Thompson, supra;In re Falvey, supra; People v. Webb, 5 N. Y.
Supp., 855; People v. M lliken, 185 N. Y. 35; Matter of
Barnes, supra;
The Department of Justice is one of the great executive
branches of the Government. It is created by statute
(Rev. Stats., Title VIII). The duties of the Attorney
General and his assistants are in great measure defined by
law. Annually Congress, with the concurrence of both
Houses, appropriates large sums of money to be expended
for the purpose of enforcing the law or defending the
Government against claims in the courts, under the direction of the Attorney General and his assistants. Can it

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

273 T. S.

possibly be said that the discovery of any facts showing
the neglect or failure of the Attorney General or his assistants properly to discharge the duties imposed upon
them by law cannot be and would not naturally be used
by Congress as the basis for new legislation safeguarding
the interests of the Government and making more improbable in the future the commission of any illegal or
improper acts which might be shown to have been committed in the past? Appellee by refusing to appear in
response to either subpoena and be sworn to testify, can
only succeed in this case by establishing that the entire
proceeding was void as beyond the constitutional powers
of the Senate. Questions as to the materiality or relevancy of evidence are for later consideration.
Messrs. Arthur I. Vorys and John P. Phillips, with
whom Mr. Webb I. Vorys was on the brief, for the
appellee.
The arrest is the result of an attempt of the Senate to
vest its committee with judicial power in a case which
is not among those specifically enumerated. The court
must determine the nature of the power which the Senate
is attempting to exercise, and is not concluded by any
post litem avowal made after the summons was issued,
served and resisted, and after a court of competent jurisdiction had enjoined the exercise of the power. In Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, In re Chapman, 166
U. S. 661, and Marshall v. Gordon, 243 U. S. 521, this
court examined the resolutions under which the investigations were being conducted and found that they were
sufficient to exhibit the nature of the investigations and
the purpose of the investigators. But the court is not
limited to the formal words of this resolution, for it is
the fact which is determinative and which this court must
find. What the Senate intends to do and in fact is doing
determines the character of its proceeding. It can not

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Argument for Appellee.

be said that, as the Senate has not declared what it intends to do at the conclusion of the investigation, therefore the investigation is not judicial and not executive,
and consequently it must be legislative in character. Nor
that, as the Senate at the end of the investigation can do
nothing in a judicial or executive capacity, therefore it
must be assumed that its action, if any, will be in a legislative capacity.
The preamble of Senate Resolution No. 157, which
clearly indicates its purpose, was stricken out upon final
passage of the resolution, not because the purpose of the
Senate had changed in any particular but because the
Senate did not desire to condemn the Attorney General
without a trial. Throughout the debate upon the resolution the idea recurs constantly that the Attorney General
is to be placed on trial. There is no suggestion of legislative action, or in fact of any action other than the
ascertainment of facts with respect to the charges of
malfeasance in office of Harry M. Daugherty and the
publication of the same for the purpose of forcing him to
resign. Only twice during the whole debate was there
any pretense that the investigators were to engage in
anything other than a trial of Mr. Daugherty.
The committee has assumed all of the functions of
prosecutor, judge and jury with apparently none of the
customary rules governing evidence and procedure. The
court, however, need go no further than the resolution
which, in apt words, reposes in the investigating committee judicial duties, and judicial duties alone. The personal cast of the resolution, the inability of the committee
to do anything except to try the facts concerning the
charges contained in the resolution and the total inability
of the Senate to use the findings of the investigating committee for any purpose other than to pillory Harry M.
Daugherty before the American people, clearly demonstrate that the proceeding is an attempt to usurp the
42847'-27-10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

273 U. S.

judicial function. Of most important significance, is the
fact that the first hint of any pretense that this inquisition was being conducted for legislative purposes was the
ex post facto recital of a "basis for such legislation and
other action" in the resolution of April 26, 1924, authorizing a warrant for the arrest of the appellee. This afterthought was inserted after the proceeding and injunction
in the Fayette County Court and when the Senate knew
that the validity of its resolution had been challenged in
that proceeding on the ground that it conferred judicial
authority. The Senate of the United States cannot override the constitutional rights of a private citizen by a
mere additional word or gesture.
The Senate when acting in its legislative capacity has
no power to arrest in order to compel testimony; the Senate can compel testimony only in cases where it has
judicial power specifically granted by the Constitution.
Any argument which begins with an assertion that citizens owe a duty to give testimony and thereupon asserts
that Congress, or a branch thereof, may enforce this duty
by its own processes, will result in nullifying the express
division of powers among the three branches of government.
At the time our Constitution was adopted the process
of arrest resided solely in the judiciary. Marshall v.
Gordon, 243 U. S. 521, 533. In England the power to
arrest and punish was retained by the House of Commons because of ancient privilege and prescription
and not because of legislative right. The power of arrest
has never been accorded to inferior legislative or administrative bodies. In the few instances in which such an attempt has been made, the power has been denied whenever it has been challenged in the courts. Langenberg v.
Decker, 131 Ind. 471; Re Sims, 54 Kans. 1; Kielley v.
Carson, 4 Moore P. C. 63; Fentonv. Hampton, 11 Moore

MlcGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Argument for Appellee.

P. C. 347; Ex Parte Dansereau,19 Lower Canada Jurist,
210.
This Court has never decided that the Congress, or
either branch of it, has power, in its legislative capacity,
to cause the arrest of a witness in order to compel him to
testify. The intimations of the learned jurists to the
contrary are so plain that it is impossible to piece out
what opposing counsel have called "expressions strongly
favoring the existence of the power." Kilbourn, v.
Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; Interstate Commerce Comm.
v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661;
Harrimanv. Interstate Commerce Comm., 211 U. S. 407;
Marshall v. Gordon, supra; Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S. 616; Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 237 U. S.
434; Federal Trade Comm. v. American Tobacco Co.,
264 U. S. 298; Ex parte Nugent, Fed. Cas. 10375; Re
Pacific Ry. Comm., 32 Fed. 250; Smith v. Interstate
Commerce Comm., 245 U. S. 33.
Congress, under the Federal Constitution, has only
those powers which are granted to it, but many of the
state legislatures differ from the English Parliament only
in the degree of their powers, having all powers not expressly or impliedly denied by the state constitutions.
From this it follows that the same canons of interpretation do not apply to the state legislatures and the national Congress. People v. Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463; Ex
Parte Parker, 74 S. C. 466; Burnham v. Morrissey, 14
Gray (Mass.) 226; Whitcomb's Case, 120 Mass. 118.
Those who have contended that the power to compel testimony is a legislative power have urged it as a necessity.
The proponents of this argument resort to the famous
definition and amplification of the word "necessary" of
Mr. Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 306. The reasoning is fallacious and circuitous.
Marshall was considering the power of the United States
to establish a national bank. He referred to Clause 18

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

273 U. S.

of Article I, § 8 of the Constitution, in which Congress
was given power to make laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the powers expressly given. He was not implying a grant of power
which, because it might be convenient, or appropriate
in the exercise of another power, would therefore be permitted to override the constitutional guaranties of the
private citizen,. In the cases which have followed and
adopted Mr. Chief Justice Marshall's definition, no case
has implied such a grant from convenience so as to override the express guaranties of the Bill of Rights contained in the first ten Amendments. Not even when Congress is given an express power can that power be exercised in derogation of the express guaranties of individual liberty. Interstate Commerce Comm. v. Brimson,
154 U. S. 447. If Congress has no such power where there
is a specific grant, certainly Congress cannot destroy personal guaranties through any implied grant incidental to
the general power to enact laws. The only satisfactory
determination of the substantive question in this case
should be that the power to arrest a recusant witness is
a judicial process and confined to the jurisdiction of the
courts, and that the Senate has no power to arrest a recusant witness except in the cases in which the constitution gives the Senate judicial power.
If Congress has power to compel the production of
evidence, to aid Congress in formulating further legislation, then Congress, both Houses concurring, must declare
its purpose, and the demand for the information. The
Senate cannot legislate, and the Senate cannot compel
testimony relating to proposed legislation which the Senate alone has in mind. Const., Art. I, § 1; See State v.
Guilbert, 75 0. S. 1.
If a witness may be compelled to testify in order to
aid the Senate in the formulation of legislation, then it
must be shown what legislation the Senate has in view

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Argument for Appellee.

and that the evidence sought is pertinent to the subjectmatter of legislation under consideration, and the testimony of the witness can be compelled only through judicial process of the court. In order to justify the compulsory discovery of evidence it must appear for what
purpose the testimony is sought and the materiality of
the evidence must be affirmatively shown. Federal Trade
Comm. v. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S. 298; Hale v.
Henkel, 201 U. S. 43. Matter of Barnes, 204 N. Y. 108;
United States v, Searles, 25 Wash. L. Rep. 384.
Senate Resolution No. 157 not only does not show
what subjects of legislation were in contemplation, but
does show the purpose of the investigation, namely, to
determine as to the alleged guilt of Harry M. Daugherty.
There is nothing in the tecord to show what proposed
subject-matters of legislation were under consideration,
and in no way can it be seen that the testimony of the
appellee or the books and records of the bank and the
accounts of the bank's customer could furnish information
that would be useful in framing any legislation shown to
have been in the mind of the Senate or of any member
thereof.
The warrant issued by the president pro tempore of the
Senate was not supported by oath or affirmation as
required by the Federal Constitution. Even a bench warrant must be supported by oath. No arrest or attachment
for contempt can issue from any court where the contempt is constructive or outside of the presence of the
court without a supporting affidavit.
The arrest of Mr. Daugherty is illegal for the reason
that it was made under a warrant to bring him forcibly
before the Senate to answer the Senate's questions before
he had been subpoenaed by the Senate and had refused
to obey the Senate.
This Court will respect the jurisdiction and order of
the state court, and will make no order which may

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

effectuate a violation of the injunction or conflict with
the purpose and spirit of the injunction.
The law does not provide for any deputy Sergeant-atArms. If there were such a officer, this warrant could
not be executed by him because it is directed to the
Sergeant-at-Arms and not to a deputy.
MR. JusFc, VAw DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is an appeal from the final order in a proceeding
in habeas corpus discharging a recusant witness held in
custody under process of attachment issued from the
United States Senate in the course of an investigation
which it was making of the administration of the Department of Justice. A full statement of the case is necessary.
The Department of Justice is one of the great executive
departments established by congressional enactment and
has charge, among other things, of the initiation and
prosecution of all suits, civil and criminal, which may
be brought in the right and name of the United States
to compel obedience or punish disobedience to its laws,
to recover property obtained from it by unlawful or
fraudulent means, or to safeguard its rights in other
respects; and also of the assertion and protection of its
interests when it or its officers are sued by others. The
Attorney General is the head of the department, and its
functions are all to be exercised under his supervision
and direction.'
Harry M. Daugherty became the Attorney General
March 5, 1921, and held that office until March 28, 1924,
1 Rev. Stats. sees. 346, 350, 359, 360, 361, 362, 367; Judicial Code,
sees. 185, 212; c. 382, sees. 3, 5, 25 Stat. 858, 859; c. 647, sec. 4, 26
Stat. 209; c. 3935, 34 Stat. 816; c. 323, sec. 15, 38 Stat. 736; United
States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 T3. S. 273, 278; Kern River Co. v.
United States. 257 U. S. 147. 155; Ponzi v. Fessenden.. 258 U. S.
254, 262.

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

when he resigned. Late in that period various charges
of misfeasance and nonfeasance in the Department of
Justice after he became its supervising head were brought
to the attention of the Senate by individual senators
and made the basis of an insistent demand that the
department be investigated to the end that the practices
and deficiencies which, according to the charges, were
operating to prevent or impair its right administration
might be definitely ascertained and that appropriate and
effective measures might be taken to remedy or eliminate
the evil. The Senate regarded the charges as grave and
requiring legislative attention and action. Accordingly
it formulated, passed and invited the House of Representatives to pass (and that body did pass) two measures
taking important litigation then in immediate contemplation out of the control of the Department of Justice
and placing the same in charge of special counsel to be
appointed by the President 2; and also adopted a resolution authorizing and directing a select committee of five
senators"to investigate circumstances and facts, and report the
same to the Senate, concerning the alleged failure of
Harry M. Daugherty, Attorney General of the United
States, to prosecute properly violators of the Sherman
Anti-trust Act and the Clayton Act against monopolies
and unlawful restraint of trade; the alleged neglect and
failure of the said Harry M. Daugherty, Attorney General of the United States, to arrest and prosecute Albert
B. Fall, Harry F. Sinclair, E. L. Doheny, C. R. Forbes,
and their co-conspirators in defrauding the Government,
as well as the alleged neglect and failure of the said
Attorney General to arrest and prosecute many others
for violations of Federal statutes, and his alleged failure
2 Cong. Rec. 68th Cong., 1st Ses., pp. 1520, 1521, 1728; c. 16, 43

Stat. 5; Cong. Rec. 68th Cong., 1st Seas., pp. 1591, 1974; c. 39, 43
Stat. 15; c. 42, 43 Stat. 16.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

to prosecute properly, efficiently, and promptly, and to
defend, all manner of civil and criminal actions wherein
the Government of the United States is interested as a
party plaintiff or defendant. And said committee is further directed to inquire into, investigate and report to
the Senate the activities of the said Harry M. Daugherty,
Attorney General, and any of his assistants in the Department of Justice which would in any manner tend to
impair their efficiency or influence as representatives of
the Government of the United States."
The resolution also authorized the committee to send
for books and papers, to subpoena witnesses, to administer oaths, and to sit at such times and places as it might
deem advisable.3
In the course of the investigation the committee issued
and caused to be duly served on Mally S. Daughertywho was a brother of Harry M. Daugherty and president
of the Midland National Bank of Washington Court
House, Ohio,-a subpoena commanding him to appear
before the committee for the purpose of giving testimony
bearing on the subject under investigation, and to bring
with him the "deposit ledgers of the Midland National
Bank since November 1, 1920; also note files and transcript of owners of every safety vault; also records of
income drafts; also records of any individual account or
accounts showing withdrawals of amounts of $25,000
or over during above period." The witness failed to
appear.
A little later in the course of the investigation the
committee issued and caused to be duly served on the
same witness another subpoena commanding him to appear before it for the purpose of giving testimony relating to the subject under consideration-nothing being
'For the full resolution and two amendments adopted shortly thereafter see Cong. Rec., 68th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 3299, 3409-3410, 3548,
4126.

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

said in this subpoena about bringing records, books or
papers. The witness again failed to appear; and no excuse was offered by him for either failure.
The committee then made a report to the Senate stating that the subpoenas had been issued, that according
to the officer's returns-copies of which accompanied the
report-the witness was personally served; and that he
had failed and refused to appear.' After a reading of
the report, the Senate adopted a resolution reciting these
facts and proceeding as follows: 5
"Whereas the appearance and testimony of the said
M. S. Daugherty is material and necessary in order that
the committee may properly execute the functions imposed upon it and may obtain information necessary as
a basis for such legislative and other action as the Senate
may deem necessary and proper: Therefore be it
"Resolved, That the President of the Senate pro
tempore issue his warrant commanding the Sergeant at
Arms or his deputy to take into custody the body of the
said M. S. Daugherty wherever found, and to bring the
said M. S. Daugherty before the bar of the Senate, then
and there to answer such questions pertinent to the matter under inquiry as the Senate may order the President
of the Senate pro tempore to propound; and to keep the
said M. S. Daugherty in custody to await the further
order of the Senate."
It will be observed from the terms of the resolution
that the warrant was to be issued in furtherance of the
effort to obtain the personal testimony of the witness
and, like the second subpoena, was not intended to exact
from him the production of the various records, books
and papers named in the first subpoena.
The warrant was issued agreeably to the resolution and
was addressed simply to the Sergeant at Arms. That
'Senate Report No. 475, 68th Cong., 1st Sess.
'Cong. Rec., 68th Cong., 1st Ses., pp. 7215-7217.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

officer on receiving the warrant endorsed thereon a direction that it be executed by John J. McGrain, already
his deputy, and delivered it to him for execution.
The deputy, proceeding under the warrant, took the
witness into custody at Cincinnati, Ohio, with the purpose
of bringing him before the bar of the Senate as commanded; whereupon the witness petitioned the federal
district court in Cincinnati for a writ of habeas corpus.
The writ was granted and the deputy made due return
setting forth the warrant and the cause of the detention.
After a hearing the court held the attachment and detention unlawful and discharged the witness, the decision
being put on the ground that the Senate in directing
the investigation and in ordering the attachment exceeded
its powers under the Constitution, 299 Fed. 620. The
deputy prayed and was allowed a direct appeal to this
Court under § 238 of the Judicial Code as then
existing.
We have given the case earnest and prolonged consideration because the principal questions involved are of
unusual importance and delicacy. They are (a) whether
the Senate-or the House of Representatives, both being
on the same plane in this regard-has power, through
its own process, to compel a private individual to appear
before it or one of its committees and give testimony
needed to enable it efficiently to exercise a legislative
function belonging to it under the Constitution, and (b)
whether it sufficiently appears that the process was being
employed in this instance to obtain testimony for that
purpose.
Other questions are presented which in regular course
should be taken up first.
The witness challenges the authority of the deputy
to exectite the warrant on two grounds-that there was
no provision of law for a deputy, and that, even if there
were such a provision, a deputy could not execute the

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

warrant because it was addressed simply to the Sergeant
at Arms. We are of opinion that neither ground is
tenable.
The Senate adopted in 1889 and has retained ever since
a standing order declaring that the Sergeant at Arms may
appoint deputies "to serve process or perform other
duties" in his stead, that they shall be "officers of the
Senate," and that acts done and returns made by them
"shall have like effect and be of the same validity as if
performed or made by the Sergeant at Arms in person." '
In actual practice the Senate has given full effect to the
order; and Congress has sanctioned the practice under it
by recognizing the deputies--sometimes called assistants--as officers of the Senate, by fixing their compensation and by making appropriations to pay them. Thus
there was ample provision of law for a deputy.
The fact that the warrant was addressed simply to the
Sergeant at Arms is not of special significance. His authority was not to be tested by the warrant alone. Other
criteria were to be considered. The standing order and
the resolution under which the warrant was issued plainly
contemplated that he was to be free to execute the warirant in person or to direct a deputy to execute it. They
expressed the intention of the Senate; and the words of
the warrant were to be taken, as they well could be, in a
sense which would give effect to that intention. Thus
understood, the warrant admissibly could be executed by
a deputy if the Sergeant at Arms so directed, which he
did.
The case of Sanborn v. Carleton, 15 Gray 399, on which
the witness relies, related to a warrant issued to the
Sergeant at Arms in 1860, which he deputed another to
execute. At that time there was no standing rule or
Senate Journal 47, 51-1, Dec. 17, 1889; Senate Rules and Manual,
68th Cong., p. 114.
'41 Stat. 632, 1253; 42 Stat. 424, 1266; 43 Stat. 33, 580, 1288.

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

statute permitting him to act through a deputy; nor was
there anything in the resolution under which the warrant
was issued indicative of a purpose to permit him to do so.
All that was decided was that in the absence of a permissive provision, in the warrant or elsewhere, he could
not commit its execution to another. The provision which
was absent in that case and deemed essential is present
in this.
The witness points to the provision in the Fourth
Amendment to the Constitution declaring "no warrants
shall issue but upon probable cause supported by oath or
affirmation" and contends that the warrant was void because the report of the committee on which it was based
was unsworn. We think the contention overlooks the relation of the committee to the Senate and to the matters
reported, and puts aside the accepted interpretation of
the constitutional provision.
The committee was a part of the Senate, and its members were acting under their oath of office as senators.
The matters reported pertained to their proceedings and
were within their own knowledge. They had issued the
subpoenas, had received and examined the officer's returns
thereon (copies of which accompanied the report), and
knew the witness had not obeyed either subpoena or
offered any excuse for his failure to do so.
The constitutional provision was not intended to
establish a new principle but to affirm and preserve a
cherished rule of the common law designed to prevent
the issue of groundless warrants. In legislative practice
committee reports are regarded as made under the sanction of the oath of office of its members; and where the
matters reported are within the committee's knowledge
and constitute probable cause for an attachment such reports are acted on and given effect without requiring that
they be supported by further oath or affirmation. This is

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

not a new practice but one which has come down from an
early period. It was well recognized before the constitutional provision was adopted, has been followed ever
since, and appears never to have been challenged until
now. Thus it amounts to a practical interpretation, long
continued, of both the original common law rule and the
affirming constitutional provision, and should be given
effect accordingly.'
The principle underlying the legislative practice has
also been recognized and applied in judicial proceedings.
This is illustrated by the settled rulings that courts in
dealing with contempts committed in their presence may
order commitments without other proof than their own
knowledge of the occurrence,9 and that they may issue
attachments, based on their own knowledge of the default,
where intended witnesses or jurors fail to appear in obedience to process shown by the officer's return to have been
duly served.' ° A further illustration is found in the rulings that grand jurors, acting under the sanction of their
oaths as such, may find and return indictments based
solely on their own knowledge of the particular offenses,
and that warrants may be issued on such indictments
without further oath or affirmation;" and still another is
found in the practice which recognizes that where grand
jurors, under their oath as such, report to the court that
a witness brought before them has refused to testify, the
1Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 620-621; The Laura, 114 U. S.
411, 416; McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 3536; Ex parte Grossman, 267 U. S. 87, 118; Myers v. United States, 272 U. S. 52.
'Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289, 307, et seq.; Holcomb v. Cornish,
8 Conn. 375; 4 Blackst. Com. 286.
10 Robbins v. Gorham, 25 N. Y. 588; Wilson v. State, 57 Ind. 71.
'Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 60-62; Regina v. Russell, 2 Car. &
Mar. 247; Commonwealth v. Hayden, 163 Mass. 453, 455; Decision
of Mr. Justice Catron reported in Wharton's Cr. P1. & Pr., 8th ed.,
pp 224-226.

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 I. S.

court may act on that report, although otherwise unsworn,
and order the witness brought before it by attachment.'"
We think the legislatbe practice, fortified as it is by
the judicial practice, shows that the report of the committee-which was based on the committee's own knowledge and made under the sanction of the oath of office of
its members--was sufficiently supported by oath to
satisfy the constitutional requirement.
The witness also points to the provision in the warrant
and in the resolution under which it was issued requiring
that he be "brought before the bar of the Senate, then
and there" to give testimony "pertinent to the subject
under inquiry," and contends that an essential prerequisite to such an attachment was wanting, because he
neither had been subpoenaed to appear and testify before
the Senate nor had refused to do so. The argument in
support of the contention proceeds on the assumption
that the warrant of attachment "is to be treated precisely
the same as if no subpoena had been issued by the committee, and the same as if the witness had not refused to
testify before the committee." In our opinion the contention and the assumption are both untenable. The
committee was acting for the Senate and under its
authorization; and therefore the subpoenas which the
committee issued and the witness refused to obey are to
be treated as if issued by the Senate. The warrant was
issued as an auxiliary process to compel him to give the
testimony sought by the subpoenas; and its nature in
this respect is not affected by the direction that his testimony be given at the bar of the Senate instead of before
the committee. If the Senate deemed it proper, in view
of his contumacy, to give that direction it was at liberty
to do so.
12See Hale v. Henkel, supra; Blair v. United States, 250 U. S. 273;

Nelson v. United States, 201 U. S. 92, 95; Equity Rule 52, 226 U. S.
Appendix, 15; Heard v. Pierce, 8 Cush. 338.

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

The witness sets up an interlocutory injunction granted
by a state court at Washington Court House, Ohio, in a
suit brought by the Midland National Bank against two
members of the investigating committee, and contends
that the attachment was in violation of that injunction
and therefore unlawful. The contention is plainly illfounded. The injunction was granted the same day the
second subpoena was served, but whether earlier or later
in the day does not appear. All that the record discloses
about the injunction is comprised in the paragraph copied
in the margin from the witness's petition for habeas
corpus." But it is apparent from what is disclosed that
the injunction did not purport to place any restraint on
the witness, nor to restrain the committee from demanding that he appear and testify personally to what he knew
respecting the subject under investigation; and also that
what the injunction did purport to restrain has no bearing
on the power of the Senate to enforce that demand by
attachment.
'" On the I1th day of April, 1924, in an action in the Court of
Common Pleas of said Fayette County, Ohio, in which said The Midland National Bank was plaintiff and said B. K. Wheeler and Smith W.
Brookhart were defendants, upon the petition of said bank said court
granted a temporary restraining order enjoining and restraining said
defendants and their agents, servants, and employees from entering
into said banking room and from taking, examining, or investigating
any of the books, accounts, records, promissory notes, securities, letters, correspondence, papers, or any other property of said bank or of
its depositors, borrowers, or customers in said banking room and from
in any manner molesting and interfering with the business and affairs
of said bank, its officers, agents, servants, and the business of its
depositors, borrowers and customers with said bank until the further
order of said court. The said defendants were duly served with process in said action and duly served with copies of said temporary
restraining order on said 11th day of April, 1924, and said injunction
has not been modified by said court and no further order has been
made in said case by said court, and said injunction is in full force
and effect."

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 TT.S.

In approaching the principal questions, which remain
to be considered, two observations are in order. One is
that we are not now concerned with the direction in the
first subpoena that the witness produce various records,
books and papers of the Midland National Bank. That
direction was not repeated in the second subpoena; and
is not sought to be enforced by the attachment. This
was recognized by the court below, 299 Fed. 623, and is
conceded by counsel for the appellant. The other is that
we are not now concerned with the right of the Senate to
propound or the duty of the witness to answer specific
questions, for as yet no questions have been propounded
to him. He is asserting-and is standing on his assertion-that the Senate is without power to interrogate
him, even if the questions propounded be pertinent and
otherwise legitimate-which for present purposes must
be assumed.
The first of the principal questions--the one which the
witness particularly presses on our attention-is, as before
shown, whether the Senate-or the House of Representatives, both being on the same plane in this regard-has
power, through its own process, to compel a private individual to appear before it or one of its committees and
give testimony needed to enable it efficiently to exercise a legislative function belonging to it under the
Constitution.
The Constitution provides for a Congress consisting of
a Senate and House of Representatives and invests it with
"all legislative powers" granted to the United States,
and with power "to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper" for carrying into execution these powers
and "all other powers" vested by the Constitution in the
United States or in any department or officer thereof.
Art. I, secs 1, 8. Other provisions show that, while bills
can become laws only after being considered and passed
by both houses of Congress, each house is to be distinct

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

from the other, to have its own officers and rules, and to
exercise its legislative function independently."4 Art. I,
secs. 2, 3, 5, 7. But there is no provision expressly investing either house with power to make investigations and
exact testimony to the end that it may exercise its legislative function advisedly and effectively. So the question arises whether this power is so far incidental to the
legislative function as to be implied.
In actual legislative practice power to secure needed
information by such means has long been treated as an
attribute of the power to legislate. It was so regarded in
the British Parliament and in the Colonial legislatures
before the American Revolution; and a like view has
prevailed and been carried into effect in both houses of
Congress and in most of the state legislatures."
This power was both asserted and exerted by the House
of Representatives in 1792, when it appointed a select
committee to inquire into the St. Clair expedition and
authorized the committee to send for necessary persons,
papers and records. Mr. Madison, who had taken an
important part in framing the Constitution only five
years before, and four of his associates in that work, were
members of the House of Representatives at the time,
and all voted for the inquiry. 3 Cong. Ann. 494. Other
exertions of the power by the House of Representatives,
as also by the Senate, are shown in the citations already
made. Among those by the Senate, the inquiry ordered
in 1859 respecting the raid by John Brown and his adherents on the armory and arsenal of the United States at
Harper's Ferry is of special significance. The resolution
14 Story Const., secs. 545, et seq.; 1 Kent's Com., p. 222.

May's Parliamentary Practice, 2d ed., pp. 80, 295, 299; Cushing's
Legislative Practice, secs. 634, 1901-1903; 3 Hinds' Precedents, secs.
1722, 1725, 1727, 1813-1820; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 6th
ed., p. 161.
42847°-27-11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

directing the inquiry authorized the *committee to send
for persons and papers, to inquire into the facts pertaining to the raid and the means by which it was organized
and supported, and to report what legislation, if any, was
necessary to preserve the peace of the country and protect the public property. The resolution was briefly discussed and adopted without opposition. Cong. Globe,
36th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 141, 152. Later on the committee reported that Thaddeus Hyatt, although subpoenaed to appear as a witness, had refused to do so; whereupon the Senate ordered that he be attached and brought
before it to answer for his refusal. When he was brought
in he answered by challenging the power of the Senate
to direct the inquiry and exact testimony to aid it in
exercising its legislative function. The question of power
thus presented was thoroughly discussed by several senators-Mr. Sumner of Massachusetts taking the lead in
denying the power and Mr. Fessenden of Maine in supporting it. Sectional and party lines were put aside and
the question was debated and determined with special
regard to principle and precedent. The vote was taken
on a resolution pronouncing the witness's answer insufficient and directing that he be committed until he should
signify that he was ready and willing to testify. The
resolution was adopted-44 senators voting for it and 10
against. Cong. Globe, 36th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 11001109, 3006-3007. The arguments advanced in support of
the power are fairly reflected by the following excerpts
from the debate:
Mr. Fessenden of Maine. "Where will you stop? Stop,
I say, just at that point where we have gone far enough to
accomplish the purposes for which we were created; and
these purposes are defined in the Constitution. What are
they? The great purpose is legislation. There are some
other things, but I speak of legislation as the principal
purpose. Now, what do we propose to do here? We

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

propose to legislate upon a given state of facts, perhaps,
or under a given necessity. Well, sir, proposing to legislate, we want information. We have it not ourselves. It
is not to be presumed that we know everything; and if
any body does presume it, it is a very great mistake, as
we know by experience. We want information on certain
subjects. How are we to get it? The Senator says, ask
for it. I am ready to ask for it; but suppose the person
whom we ask will not give it to us: what then? Have
we not power to compel him to come before us? Is
this power, which has been exercised by Parliament, and
by all legislative bodies down to the present day without
dispute-the power to inquire into subjects upon which
they are disposed to legislate-lost to us? Are we not in
the possession of it? Are we deprived of it simply because we hold our power here under a Constitution which
defines what our duties are, and what we are called upon
to do?
"Congress have appointed committees after committees, time after time, to make inquiries on subjects of
legislation. Had we not power to do it? Nobody questioned our authority to do it. We have given them authority to send for persons and papers during the recess.
Nobody questioned our authority. We appoint committees during the session, with power to send for persons
and papers. Have we not that authority, if necessary
to legislation?
"Sir, with regard to myself, all I have to inquire into
is: is this a legitimate and proper object, committed to
me under the Constitution; and then, as to the mode of
accomplishing it, I am ready to use judiciously, calmly,
moderately, all the power which I believe is necessary
and inherent, in order to do that which I am appointed
to do; and, I take it, I violate no rights, either of the
people generally or of the individual, by that course."

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

Mr. Crittenden of Kentucky. "I come now to a question where the co~peration of the two branches is not
necessary. There are some things that the Senate may
do. How? According to a mode of its own. Are we to
ask the other branch of the Legislature to concede by
law to us the power of making such an inquiry as we are
now making? Has not each branch the right to make
what inquiries and investigation it thinks proper to make
for its own action? Undoubtedly. You say we must
have a law for it. Can we have a law? Is it not, from
the very nature of the case, incidental to you as a Senate,
if you, as a Senate, have the power of instituting an inquiry and of proceeding with that inquiry? I have endeavored to show that we have that power. We have a
right, in consequence of it, a necessary incidental power,
to summon witnesses, if witnesses are necessary. Do we
require the concurrence of the other House to that? It
is a power of our own. If you have a right to do the
thing of your own motion, you must have all powers that
are necessary to do it.
"The means of carrying into effect by law all the
granted powers, is given where legislation is applicable
and necessary; but there are subordinate matters, not
amounting to laws; there are inquiries of the one House
or the other House, which each House has a right to conduct; which each has, from the beginning, exercised the
power to conduct; and each has, from the beginning, summoned witnesses. This has been the practice of the
Government from the beginning; and if we have a right
to summon the witness, all the rest follows as a matter of
course."
The deliberate solution of the question on that occasion has been accepted and followed on other occasions
by both houses of Congress, and never has been rejected
or questioned by either,

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

The state courts quite generally have held that the
power to legislate carries with it by necessary implication ample authority to obtain information needed in the
rightful exercise of that power, and to employ compulsory
process for the purpose.
In Burnham v. Morrisey, 14 Gray 226, 239, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in sustaining an
exertion of this power by one branch of the legislature
of that Commonwealth, said:
"The house of representatives has many duties to perform, which necessarily require it to receive evidence and
examine witnesses. . .
It has often occasion to acquire certain knowledge of facts, in order to the proper
performance of legislative duties. We therefore think it
clear that it has the constitutional right to take evidence,
to summon witnesses, and to compel them to appear and
testify. This power to summon and examine witnesses
it may exercise by means of committees."
In Wilckens v. Willet, 1 Keyea 521, 525, a case which
presented the question whether the House of Representatives of the United States possesses this power, the Court
of Appeals of New York said:
"That the power exists there admits of no doubt whatever. It is a necessary incident to the sovereign power
of making laws; and its exercise is often indispensable to
the great end of enlightened, judicious and wholesome
legislation."
In People v. Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463, 482, 483, where the
validity of a statute of New York recognizing and giving
effect to this power was drawn in question, the Court of
Appeals approvingly quoted what it had said in Wilckens
v. Willet, and added:
"It is difficult to conceive any constitutional objection
which can be raised to the provision authorizing legislative committees to take testimony and to summon

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U.S.

witnesses. In many cases it may be indispensable to
intelligent and effectual legislation to ascertain the facts
which are claimed to give rise to the necessity for such
legislation, and the remedy required, and, irrespective of
the question whether in the absence of a statute to that
effect either house would have the power to imprison a
recusant witness, I cannot yield to the claim that a statute
authorizing it to enforce its process in that manner is in
excess of the legislative power. To await the slow process
of indictment and prosecution for a misdemeanor, might
prove quite ineffectual, and necessary legislation might be
obstructed, and perhaps defeated, if the legislative body
had no other and more summary means of enforcing its
right to obtain the required information. That the power
may be abused, is no ground for denying its existence. It
is a limited power, and should be kept within its proper
bounds; and, when these are exceeded, a jurisdictional
question is presented which is cognizable in the courts."
"Throughout this Union the practice of legislative bodies, and in this State, the statutes existing at the
time the present Constitution was adopted, and whose
validity has never before been questioned by our courts,
afford strong arguments in favor of the recognition of the
right of either house to compel the attendance of witnesses
for legislative purposes, as one which has been generally
conceded to be an appropriate adjunct to the power of
legislation, and one which, to say the least, the State
legislature has constitutional authority to regulate and
enforce by statute."
Other decisions by state courts recognizing and sustaining the legislative practice are found in Falvey v. Massing,
7 Wis. 630, 635-638; State v. Frear, 138 Wis. 173; Ex
parteParker,74 S. C. 466, 470; Sullivan v. Hill, 73 W. Va.
49, 53; Lowe v. Summers, 69 Mo. App. 637, 649-650. An
instructive decision on the question is also found in Ex
parte Dansereau (1875), 19 L. C. Jur. 210, where the

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

legislative assembly of the Province of Quebec was held
to possess this power as a necessary incident of its power
to legislate.
We have referred to the practice of the two houses of
Congress; and we now shall notice some significant congressional enactments. May 3, 1798, c. 36, 1 Stat. 554,
Congress provided that oaths or affirmations might be administered to witnesses by the President of the Senate,
the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the chairman of a committee of the whole, or the chairman of a
select committee, "in any case under their examination."
February 8, 1817, c. 10, 3 Stat. 345, it enlarged that provision so as to include the chairman of a standing committee. January 24, 1857, c. 19, 11 Stat. 155, it passed
"An Act more effectually to enforce the attendance of
witnesses on the summons of either house of Congress,
and to compel them to discover testimony." This act
provided, first, that any person summoned as a witness to
give testimony or produce papers in any matter under
inquiry before either house of Congress, or any committee
of either house, who should wilfully make default, or, if
appearing, should refuse to answer any question pertinent
to the inquiry, should, in addition to the pains and penalties then existing,"6 be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and be subject to indictment and punishment as there
prescribed; and secondly, that no person should be excused from giving evidence in such an inquiry on the
ground that it might tend to incriminate or disgrace him,
nor be held to answer criminally, or be subjected to any
penalty or forfeiture, for any fact or act as to which he
was required to testify, excepting that he might be subjected to prosecution for perjury committed while so testifying. January 24, 1862, c. 11, 12 Stat. 333, Congress
modified the immunity provision in particulars not mate"'Thereference is to the power of the particular house to deal with
the contempt. In re Chapman, 166 U.S. 661, 671-672.

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

rial here. These enactments are now embodied in §§ 101104 and 859 of Revised Statutes. They show very plainly
that Congress intended thereby (a) to recognize the power
of either house to institute inquiries and exact evidence
touching subjects within its jurisdiction and on which it
was disposed to act;17 (b) to recognize that such inquiries
may be conducted through committees; (c) to subject
defaulting and contumacious witnesses to indictment and
punishment in the courts, and thereby to enable either
house to exert the power of inquiry "more effectually" ; 8 and (d) to open the way for obtaining evidence

in such an inquiry, which otherwise could not be obtained,
by exempting witnesses required to give evidence therein
from criminal and penal prosecutions in respect of matters
disclosed by their evidence.
Four decisions of this Court are cited and more or less
relied on, and we now turn to them.
The first decision was in Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat.
204. The question there was whether, under the Constitution, the House of Representatives has power to
attach and punish a person other than a member for con' In construing section 1 of the Act

of 1857 as reproduced in section

102 of the Revised Statutes, this Court said in In re Chapman, 166
1.. S. 661, 667:
"It is true that the reference is to 'any' matter under inquiry, and
so on, and it is suggested that this is fatally defective because too
broad and unlimited in its extent; but nothing is better settled than
that statutes should receive a sensible construction, such as .will
effectuate the legislative intention, and, if possible, so as to avoid an unjust
or an absurd conclusion, Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47,
59; and we think that the word 'any,' as used in these sections,
refers to matters within the jurisdiction of the two Houses of Congress, before them for consideration and proper for their action; to
questions pertinent thereto; and to facts or papers bearing thereon."
18 This Court has said of the act of 1857 that "it was necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the powers vested in Congress and
in each house thereof," In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661, 671,

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

tempt of its authority-in fact, an attempt to bribe one
of its members. The Court regarded the power as essential to the effective exertion of other powers expressly
granted, and therefore as implied. The argument advanced to the contrary was that as the Constitution
expressly grants to each house power to punish or expel
its own members and says nothing about punishing
others, the implication or inference, if any, is that power
to punish one who is not a member is neither given nor
intended. The Court answered this by saying:
(p. 225) "There is not in the whole of that admirable
instrument, a grant of powers which does not draw after
it others, not expressed, but vital to their exercise; not
substantive and independent, indeed, but auxiliary and
subordinate."
(p. 233) "This argument proves too much; for its
direct application would lead to annihilation of almost
every power of Congress. To enforce its laws upon any
subject without the sanction of punishment is obviously
impossible. Yet there is an express grant of power to
punish in one class of cases and one only, and all the
punishing power exercised by Congress in any cases,
except those which relate to piracy and offenses against
the laws of nations, is derived from implication. Nor
did the idea ever occur to any one, that the express grant
in one class of cases repelled the assumption of the punishing power in any other. The truth is, that the exercise
of the powers given over their own members, was of such
a delicate nature, that a constitutional provision became
necessary to assert or communicate it. Constituted, as
that body is, of the delegates of confederated States, some
such provision was necessary to guard against their
mutual jealousy, since every proceeding against a representative would indirectly affect the honour or interests
of the state which sent him."

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

The next decision was in Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103
U. S. 168. The question there was whether the House
of Representatives had exceeded its power in directing
one of its committees to make a particular investigation.
The decision was that it had. The principles announced
and applied in the case are-that neither house of Congress possesses a "general power of making inquiry into
the private affairs of the citizen "; that the power actually
possessed is limited to inquiries relating to matters of
which the particular house "has jurisdiction" and in
respect of which it rightfully may take other action; that
if the inquiry relates to "a matter wherein relief or
redress could be had only by a judicial proceeding" it is
not within the range of this power, but must be left to
the courts, conformably to the constitutional separation
of governmental powers; and that for the purpose of
determining the essential character of the inquiry recourse
may be had to the resolution or order under which it is
made. The court examined the resolution which was
the basis of the particular inquiry, and ascertained therefrom that the inquiry related to a private real-estate pool
or partnership in the District of Columbia. Jay Cooke &
Co. had had an interest in the pool, but had become bankrupts, and their estate was in course of administration
in a federal bankruptcy court in Pennsylvania. The
United States was one of their creditors. The trustee in
the bankruptcy proceeding had effected a settlement of
the bankrupts' interest in the pool, and of course his
action was subject to examination and approval or disapproval by the bankruptcy court. Some of the creditors, including the United States, were dissatisfied with
the settlement. In these circumstances, disclosed in the
preamble, the resolution directed the committee "to
inquire into the matter and history of said real-estate
pool and the character of said settlement, with the
amount of property involved in which Jay Cooke & Co.

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

were interested, and the amount paid or to be paid in
said settlement, with power to send for persons and
papers and report to the House." The Court pointed
out that the resolution contained no suggestion of contemplated legislation; that the matter was one in respect to
which no valid legislation could be had; that the
bankrupts' estate and the trustee's settlement were
still pending in the bankruptcy court; and that the
United States and other creditors were free to press their
claims in that proceeding. And on these grounds the
Court held that in undertaking the investigation "the
House of Representatives not only exceeded the limit of
its own authority, but assumed power which could only
be properly exercised by another branch of the government, because it was in its nature clearly judicial."
The case has been cited at times, and is cited to us now,
as strongly intimating, if not holding, that neither house
of Congress has power to make inquiries and exact evidence in aid of contemplated legislation. There are expressions in the opinion which, separately considered,
might bear such an interpretation; but that this was not
intended is shown by the immediately succeeding statement (p. 189) that "This latter proposition is one which
we do not propose to decide in the present case because
we are able to decide the case without passing upon the
existence or non-existence of such a power in aid of the
legislative function."
Next in order is In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661. The
inquiry there in question was conducted under a resolution of the Senate and related to charges, published in the
press, that senators were yielding to corrupt influences in
considering a tariff bill then before the Senate and were
speculating in stocks the value of which would be affected
by pending amendments to the bill. Chapman appeared
before the committee in response to a subpoena, but refused to answer questions pertinent to the inquiry, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

was indicted and convicted under the act of 1857 for his
refusal. The Court sustained the constitutional validity
of the act of 1857, and, after referring to the constitutional provision empowering either house to punish its
members for disorderly behavior and by a vote of twothirds to expel a member, held that the inquiry related to
the integrity and fidelity of senators in the discharge of
their duties, and therefore to a matter "within the range
of the constitutional powers of the Senate" and in respect
of which it could compel witnesses to appear and testify.
In overruling an objection that the inquiry was without
any defined or admissible purpose, in that the preamble
and resolution made no reference to any contemplated expulsion, censure, or other action by the Senate, the Court
held that they adequately disclosed a subject-matter of
which the Senate had jurisdiction, that it was not essential that the Senate declare in advance what it meditated
doing, and that the assumption could not be indulged that
the Senate was making the inquiry without a legitimate
object.
The case is relied on here as fully sustaining the power
of either house to conduct investigations and exact testimony from witnesses for legislative purposes. In the
course of the opinion (p. 671) it is said that disclosures
by witnesses may be compelled constitutionally "to enable the respective bodies to discharge their legitimate
functions, and that it was to effect this that the act of
1857 was passed "; and also "We grant that Congress
could not divest itself, or either of its houses, of the essential and inherent power to punish for contempt, in cases to
which the power of either house properly extended; but,
because Congress, by the act of 1857, sought to aid each
of the houses in the discharge of its constitutional functions, it does not follow that any delegation of the power
in each to punish for contempt was involved." The terms
"legitimate functions" and "constitutional functions"

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

are broad and might well be regarded as including the
legislative function, but as the case in hand did not call
for any expression respecting that function, it hardly
can be said that these terms were purposely used as
including it.
The latest case is Marshall v. Gordon, 243 U. S. 521.
The question there was whether the House of Representatives exceeded its power in punishing, as for a contempt
of its authority, a person-not a member-who had written, published and sent to the chairman of one of its committees an ill-tempered and irritating letter respecting the
action and purposes of the committee. Power to make
inquiries and obtain evidence by compulsory process was
not involved. The Court recognized distinctly that the
House of Representatives has implied power to punish
a person not a member for contempt, as was ruled in
Anderson v. Dunn, supra, but held that its action in this
instance was without constitutional justification. The
decision was put on the ground that the letter, while
offensive and vexatious, was not calculated or likely to
affect the House in any of its proceedings or in the exercise of any of its functions--in short, that the act which
was punished as a contempt was not of such a character
as to bring it within the rule that an express power draws
after it others which are necessary and appropriate to give
effect to it,
While these cases are not decisive of the question we
are considering, they definitely settle two propositions
which we recognize as entirely sound and having a bearing on its solution: One, that the two houses of Congress,
in their separate relations, possess not only such powers
as are expressly granted to them by the Constitution,
but such auxiliary powers as are necessary and appropriate to make the express powers effective; and, the
other, that neither house is invested with "general"
power to inquire into private affairs and compel disclo-

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

sures, but only with such limited power of inquiry as is
shown to exist when the rule of constitutional interpretation just stated is rightly applied. The latter proposition
has further support in Harrimanv. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 211 U. S. 407, 417-419, and Federal Trade
Commission v. American Tobacco Company, 264 U. S.
298, 305-306.
With this review of the legislative practice, congressional enactments and court decisions, we proceed to a
statement of our conclusions on the question.
We are of opinion that the power of inquiry-with
process to enforce it-is an essential and appropriate
auxiliary to the legislative function. It was so regarded
and employed in American legislatures before the Constitution was framed and ratified. Both houses of Congress took this view of it early in their history-the House
of Representatives with the approving votes of Mr. Madison and other members whose service in the convention
which framed the Constitution gives special significance
to their action-and both houses have employed the
power accordingly up to the present time. The acts of
1798 and 1857, judged by their comprehensive terms,
were intended to recognize the existence of this power in
both houses and to enable them to employ it "more
effectually" than before. So, when their practice in the
matter "is appraised according to the circumstances in
which it was begun and to those in which it has been
continued, it falls nothing short of a practical construction, long continued, of the constitutional provisions
respecting their powers, and therefore should be taken
as fixing the meaning of those provisions, if otherwise
doubtful."
"Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch 299, 309; Martin v. Hunter'sLessee, 1
Wheat. 304, 351; Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 469; Knowlton v.
Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 56, 92; Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S.
283, 306, et seq.

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

We are further of opinion that the provisions are not
of doubtful meaning, but, as was held by this Court in
the cases we have reviewed, are intended to be effectively
exercised, and therefore to carry with them such auxiliary
powers as are necessary and appropriate to that end.
While the power to exact information in aid of the legislative function was not involved in those cases, the rule
of interpretation applied there is applicable here. A legislative body cannot legislate wisely or effectively in the
absence of information respecting the conditions which
the legislation is intended to affect or change; and where
the legislative body does not itself possess the requisite
information-which not infrequently is true--recourse
must be had to others who do possess it. Experience
has taught that mere requests for such information often
are unavailing, and also that information which is volunteered is not always accurate or complete; so some means
of compulsion are essential to obtain what is needed. All
this was true before and when the Constitution was
framed and adopted. In that period the power of inquiry
-with enforcing process-was regarded and employed as
a necessary and appropriate attribute of the power to
legislate--indeed, was treated as inhering in it. Thus
there is ample warrant for thinking, as we do, that the
constitutional provisions which commit the legislative
function to the two houses are intended to include this
attribute to the end that the function may be effectively
exercised.
The contention is earnestly made on behalf of the witness that this power of inquiry, if sustained, may be
abusively and oppressively exerted. If this be so, it affords no ground for denying the power. The same contention might be directed against the power to legislate,
and of course would be unavailing. We must assume,
for present purposes, that neither house will be disposed
to exert the power beyond its proper bounds, or with-

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

out due regard to the rights of witnesses. But if, contrary to this assumption, controlling limitations or restrictions are disregarded, the decisions in Kilbourn v.
Thompson and Marshall v. Gordon point to admissible
measures of relief. And it is a necessary deduction from
the decisions in Kilbourn v. Thompson and In re Chapman that a witness rightfully may refuse to answer where
the bounds of the power are exceeded or the questions
are not pertinent to the matter under inquiry.
We come now to the question whether it sufficiently
appears that the purpose for which the witness's testimony was sought was to obtain information in aid of
the legislative function. The court below answered the
question in the negative and put its decision largely on
this ground, as is shown by the following excerpts from
its opinion (299 Fed. 638, 639, 640):
"It will be noted that in the second resolution the
Senate has expressly avowed that the investigation is in
aid of other action than legislation. Its purpose is to
'obtain information necessary as a basis for such legislative and other action as the Senate may deem necessary
and proper.' This indicates that the Senate is contemplating the taking of action other than legislative, as the
outcome of the investigation, at least the possibility of so
doing. The extreme personal cast of the original resolutions; the spirit of hostility towards the then Attorney
General which they breathe; that it was not avowed that
legislative action was had in view until after the action of
the Senate, had been challenged; and that the avowal
then was coupled with an avowal that other action was
had in view-are calculated to create the impression that
the idea of legislative action being in contemplation was
an afterthought.
"That the Senate has in contemplation the possibility
of taking action other than legislation as an outcome of
the investigation, as thus expressly avowed, would seem

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

of itself to invalidate the entire proceeding. But, whether
so or not, the Senate's action is invalid and absolutely
void, in that, in ordering and conducting the investigation, it is exercising the judicial function, and power to
exercise that function, in such a case as we have here, has
not been conferred upon it expressly or by fair implication. What it is proposing to do is to determine the guilt
of the Attorney General of the shortcomings and wrongdoings set forth in the resolutions. It is'to hear, adjudge,
and condemn.' In so doing it is exercising the judicial
function.
"What the Senate is engaged in doing is not investigating the Attorney General's office; it is investigating the
former Attorney General. What it has done is to put him
on trial before it. In so doing it is exercising the judicial
function. This it has no power to do."
We are of opinion that the court's ruling on this question was wrong, and that it sufficiently appears, when the
proceedings are rightly interpreted, that the object of the
investigation and of the effort to secure the witness's
testimony was to obtain information for legislative purposes.
It is quite true that the resolution directing the investigation does not in terms avow that it is intended to be
in aid of legislation; but it does show that the subject to
be investigated was the administration of the Department
of Justice-whether its functions were being properly
discharged or were being neglected or misdirected, and
particularly whether the Attorney General and his assistants were performing or neglecting their duties in respect
of the institution and prosecution of proceedings to punish
crimes and enforce appropriate remedies against the
wrongdoers-specific instances of alleged neglect being
recited. Plainly the subject was one on which legislation
could be had and would be materially aided by the information which the investigation was calculated to elicit.
42847o-27-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

This becomes manifest when it is reflected that the functions of the Department of Justice, the powers and duties
of the Attorney General and the duties of his assistants,
are all subject to regulation by congressional legislation,
and that the department is maintained and its activities
are carried on under such appropriations as in the judgment of Congress are needed from year to year.
The only legitimate object the Senate could have in
ordering the investigation was to aid it in legislating; and
we think the subject-matter was such that the presumption should be indulged that this was the real object. An
express avowal of the object would have been better; but
in view of the particular subject-matter was not indispensable. In the Chapman case, where the resolution
contained no avowal, this Court pointed out that it
plainly related to a subject-matter of which the Senate
had jurisdiction, and said "We cannot assume on this
record that the action of the Senate was without a legitimate object"; and also that "it was certainly not necessary that the resolutions should declare in advance what
the Senate meditated doing when the investigation was
concluded." (166 U. S. 669-670.) In People v. Keeler,
99 N. Y. 463, where the Court of Appeals of New York
sustained an investigation ordered by the Senate of that
state where the resolution contained no avowal, but disclosed that it definitely related to the administration of a
public office the duties of which were subject to legislative.
regulation, the court said (pp. 485, 487): "Where public
institutions under the control of the State are ordered
to be investigated it is generally with the view of some
legislative action respecting them, and the same may be
said in respect of public officers." And again: "We are
bound to presume that the action of the legislative body
was with a legitimate object if it is capable of being so
construed, and we have no right to assume that the
contrary was intended."

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

While we rest our conclusion respecting the object of
the investigation on the grounds just stated, it is well to
observe that this view of what was intended is not new,
but was shown in the debate on the resolution.'
Of course, our concern is with the substance of the
resolution and not with any nice questions of propriety
respecting its direct reference to the then Attorney General by name. The resolution, like the charges which
prompted its adoption, related to the activities of the
department while he was its supervising officer; and the
reference to him by name served to designate the period
to which the investigation was directed.
We think the resolution and proceedings give no warrant for thinking the Senate was attempting or intending
to try the Attorney General at its bar or before its committee for any crime or wrongdoing. Nor do we think
'°Senator George said: "It is not a trial now that is proposed, and
there has been no trial proposed save the civil and criminal actions
to be instituted and prosecuted by counsel employed under the resolution giving to the President the power to employ counsel. We are
not to try the Attorney General. He is not to go upon trial. Shall
we say the legislative branch of the Government shall stickle and
halt and hesitate because a man's public reputation, his public character, may suffer because of that legislative action? Hms not the
Senate power to appoint a committee to investigate any department
of the Government, any department supported by the Senate in part
by appropriations made by the Congress? If the Senate has the
right to investigate the department, is the Senate to hesitate, is the
Senate to refuse to do its duty merely because the public character or
the public reputation of some one who is investigated may be thereby
smirched, to use the term that has been used so often in the debate?
.. It is sufficient for me to know that there are grounds upon

which I may justly base my vote for the resolution; and I am willing
to leave it to the agent created by the Senate to proceed with the
investigation fearlessly upon principle, not for the purpose of trying
but for the purpose of ascertaining facts which the Senate is entitled
to have within its possession in order that it may properly function
as a legislative body." Cong. Rec., 68th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 3397,
3398.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 IT.S.

it a valid objection to the investigation that it might
possibly disclose crime or wrongdoing on his part.
The second resolution-the one directing that the witness be attached--declares that his testimony is sought
with the purpose of obtaining "information necessary as
a basis for such legislative and other action as the Senate
may deem necessary and proper." This avowal of contemplated legislation is in accord with what we think is
the right interpretation of the earlier resolution directing
the investigation. The suggested possibility of "other
action" if deemed "necessary or proper" is of course
open to criticism in that there is no other action in the
matter which would be within the power of the Senate.
But we do not assent to the view that this indefinite and
untenable suggestion invalidates the entire proceeding.
The right view in our opinion is that it takes nothing
from the lawful object avowed in the same resolution
and rightly inferable from the earlier one. It is not as if
an inadmissible or unlawful object were affirmatively and
definitely avowed.
We conclude that the investigation was ordered for a
legitimate object; that the witness wrongfully refused to
appear and testify before the committee and was lawfully attached; that the Senate is entitled to have him
give testimony pertinent to the inquiry, either at its bar
or before the committee; and that the district court erred
in discharging him from custody under the attachment.
Another question has arisen which should be noticed.
It is whether the case has become moot. The investigation
was ordered and the committee appointed during the
Sixty-eighth Congress. That Congress expired March 4,
1925. The resolution ordering the investigation in terms
limited the committee's authority to the period of the
Sixty-eighth Congress; but this apparently was changed
by a later and amendatory resolution authorizing the
committee to sit at such times and places as it might

McGRAIN v. DAUGHERTY.
135

Opinion of the Court.

deem advisable or necessary.2 It is said in Jefferson's
Manual:2 "Neither House can continue any portion of
itself in any parliamentary function beyond the end of
the session without the consent of the other two branches.
When done, it is by a bill constituting them commissioners for the particular purpose." But the context
shows that the reference is to the two houses of Parliament when adjourned by prorogation or dissolution by
the King. The rule may be the same with the House of
Representatives whose members are all elected for the
period of a single Congress; but it cannot well be the
same with the Senate, which is a continuing body whose
members are elected for a term of six years and so divided
into classes that the seats of one-third only become vacant
at the end of each Congress, two-thirds always continuing
into the next Congress, save as vacancies may occur
through death or resignation.
Mr. Hinds in his collection of precedents says: "The
Senate, as a continuing body, may continue its committees through the recess following the expiration of a Congress ";11 and, after quoting the above statement from
Jefferson's Manual, he says: "The Senate, however, being
a continuing body, gives authority to its committees during the recess after the expiration of a Congress." 24 So
far as we are advised the select committee having this
investigation in charge has neither made a final report
nor been discharged; nor has it been continued by an
affirmative order. Apparently its activities have been
suspended pending the decision of this case. But, be this
as it may, it is certain that the committee may be continied or revived now by motion to that effect, and, if
continued or revived, will have all its original powers. 5
" Cong. Rec., 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4126.
" Senate Rules and Manual, 1925, p. 303.
"Vol. 4, sec. 4544.
uVol. 4, sec. 4545.
25 Hinds' Precedents, Vol. 4, sees. 4396, 4400, 4404, 4405.

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
273 U. S.

Syllabus.

This being so, and the Senate being a continuing body,
the case cannot be said to have become moot in the ordinary sense. The situation is measurably like that in
Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 219 U. S. 498, 514-516, where it was held
that a suit to enjoin the enforcement of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission did not become moot
through the expiration of the order where it was capable
of repetition by the commission and was a matter of public interest. Our judgment may yet be carried into effect
and the investigation proceeded with from the point at
which it apparently was interrupted by reason of the
habeas corpus proceedings. In these circumstances we
think a judgment should be rendered as was done in the
case cited.
What has been said requires that the final order in the
district court discharging the witness from custody be
reversed.
Final order reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE did not participate in the consideration or decision of the case.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. SUTHERLAND,
TODIAN.

ALIEN

PROPERTY

ET AL.

CUS-

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 53. Argued December 3, 6, 1926.--Decided January 17, 1927.
1. Stock is presumed to be owned by the person registered as owner
on the company's books; and when stated to be held by the
registered owner for another named person, the latter is presumed
to own the whole beneficial interest. P. 188.
2. A demand of the Alien Property Custodian upon a corporation for
transfer to himself of every right, title and interest of an alien
enemy in shares of stock, construmed as a demand for, and as a
symbolic seizure of, the shares. P. 188.

