HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. SOU. PACIFIC.
202

207

Syllabus.

tempting to defeat or evade the Revenue Law may be
committed without verification of a false tax return.
Emmich v. United States, 298 Fed. 5, 10. Congress, having power to make both the false swearing and the use
of the false affidavit punishable, Albrecht v. United
States, ante, p. 1, did so. Compare United States v.
Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78; Kennedy v. United States,
265 U. S. 344. The fact that perjury is a felony, while
filing a false return is only a misdemeanor, presented no
obstacle. Compare United States v. Lawrence, 26 Fed.
Cas. No. 15,572. There is nothing in the history of the
revenue legislation which should lead us to a different conclusion. Our decision is in accord with the view taken by
those circuit courts of appeals which have dealt with the
question. Levin v. United States, 5 F. (2d) 598, 600;
Steinberg v. United States, 14 F. (2d) 564.
Reversed.
HARTFORD ACCIDENT & INDEMNITY COMPANY v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 45.

Argued December 2, 1926.--Decided February 21, 1927.

1. Where a shipowner sues in admiralty to limit his liability from
negligent management of his vessel to the value of the vessel and
pending freight, the proceeding does not necessarily terminate
if his prayer is denied, but the Court may thereupon proceed to
adjudicate all the claims coming from the accident, whether independently cognizable in admiralty or not, after the manner of a
court of equity, and render judgment both in rem, and against the
owner in personam. P. 213.
2. A stipulation ad interim in such proceedings takes the place of the
vessel and freight, and even when the shipowner's application to
limit liability is denied, the stipulator may be required to pay their
value into court for application to allowed claims and costs. P. 218.
3 F. (2d) 923, affirmed.

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Petitioner.

CERTIORARI

273 U. S.

(267 U. S. 590) to a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals which affirmed a decree of the District
Court requiring a stipulator for value in a limitation of
liability proceeding to pay into court the value of its
principal's vessel and pending freight.
Mr. John Neethe, with whom Mr. Edwin C. Brandenburg was on the brief, for petitioner.
The Act was passed for the purpose of encouraging
ship owners and should be liberally construed in their
favor. La Bourgoyne, 210 U. S. 95. In Norwich v.
Wright, 13 Wall. 104, it was held to apply to collision
cases. In Providence S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co., 109
U. S. 578, it was extended to cover loss by fire. In
Butler v. Boston S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527, it was extended
to personal injuries, as well as to injuries of property.
The Bolikow was sold after the disaster for the sum
of $250. This was the res against which the appellee and
other claimants intervening could have proceeded by
a libel in rem. It was all that was within the jurisdiction of the court. Believing that it was not liable at
all, the Oil Company filed its petition and the ad interim
stipulation adding to the $250 the freight earned on the
last voyage, amounting to about $11,000.
The precise question now before this Court has never
been determined. Distinguishing The Virginia, 266 Fed.
437. A proceeding for limitation of liability is a proceeding in rem; or an equitable proceeding in rem. After
limitation of liability is denied, there ceases to be a res
in court and the proceeding should either be dismissed
or cease to be one in rem and become a proceeding in
personam, with no more jurisdiction left in the court
than to ascertain, as in a libel in personam, the amount
due each claimant, or to have the court refer this question to a commissioner for a like purpose. In re Smith
& Sons, Inc., 193 Fed. 395; In re Pacific Mail S. S. Co.,

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. SOU. PACIFIC.
207

209

Argument for Respondents.

130 Fed. 76; The Santa Rosa, 249 Fed. 160; The Titanic,
204 Fed. 295.
To hold that the court could still proceed to adjudicate the rights of the various parties would necessitate
a holding that the rights of the intervening claims against
the ship owner, whether sounding in contract or tort,
and whether arising in admiralty or not, can be adjudicated in a federal court, though they may arise between
citizens of the same State. Such holding would mean
that, though each claimant as against the owner is entitled to a jury, the limitation of liability act would
deprive him of such privilege.
Mr. Roscoe H. Hupper, with whom Messrs. W. T.
Armstrong and IV. E. Cranford were on the brief, for
respondents.
The court has the right to decree the payment into
court of the appraised value of the barge and her pending
freight for such disposition of it as the court could legally
have made of it had it originally been paid into the
registry of the court and not been bailed out. The Benefactor, 103 U. S. 239; Rev. Stats. §§ 4282-4285 inc. The
principle that there occurs a complete and irrevocable surrender of the actual property to the court is frequently
expressed. Prov. S. S. Co. v. Hale Mfg. Co., 109 U. S.
578; Re Morrison, 147 U. S. 14; The H. F. Dimock, 52
Fed. 598; The Wanata, 95 U. S. 600; United States v.
Ames, 99 U. S. 35; The City of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468.
It is true that in the earlier cases, such as The Republic and The Eureka, as stated in The Titanic, 204
Fed. 295, the doctrine "is assumed," though not asserted;
but when the question came up squarely it was definitely decided by the lower courts that in a limitation
proceeding where exemption from liability as well as a
right to limit liability is asserted, the court has complete
42847°-27-14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Respondents.

273 U. S.

and exclusive jurisdiction of the entire controversy and
may proceed to render a final decree for the full amount
of damages in favor of the claimant even though limitation of liability is denied. The court, continuing to have
jurisdiction over the proceeding for the purpose of doing
justice by the claimants, does not lose control of the
res, that is, the vessel and its pending freight, which has
been placed in court by the petitioner in order to secure
the proceeding. Benedict, Admiralty, 4th ed., § 527. The
Lydia, 1 Fed. (2d) 69.
It is an action in the nature of a creditor's bill for the
purpose of securing a concourse of the creditors on account of a particular accident in which the vessel and
her pending freight are impounded for the purpose of
being surrendered to such creditors in the event they
establish claims against the owner of the impounded
fund. The owner of the fund makes the issues to be
litigated in the action by his petition and consequently
defines the measure of possible recovery against the fund
and against himself. It would seem that the right
against the fund should be held to be co-extensive with
the limits of possible recovery fixed by the petition.
The Garden City, 26 Fed. 771; Dowdell v. District Ct.,
139 Fed. 445; Providence S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co., 109
U. S. 578; Black v. S. P. R. Co., 39 Fed. 565; Oregon
R. R. & Nay. Co. v. Balfour, 90 Fed. 295; Butler v. Boston S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527.
The whole proceeding is in reality an equitable action
in rem and in personam-anequitable suit to the extent
that the admiralty court, having the broadest of powers
to do exact justice between the parties, may take any
such action in the case as justice demands,-an action
in rem in so far as the judgments reach the fund placed
in court by the petitioner, and in personam in so far as
the personal liability of the petitioner is established or
found not to exist. Re Morrison, supra; Dowdell v. Dist.

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. SOU. PACIFIC.
207

211

Opinion of the Court.

Ct., supra; Re Pacific Mail S. S. Co., 130 Fed. 76; The
Annie Faxon, 75 Fed. 312; Benedict, Admiralty, 4th ed.,

§ 519.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The National Oil Transport Company, the owner of
wooden oil tank barge Bolikow, filed a libel in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of Texas
against the Southern Pacific Company, alleging: that the
Bolikow, made fast to a dock in the harbor of the city
of Galveston, was laden with a cargo of crude oil from
which a large part had been discharged; that an explosion took place in one of her tanks, causing fire; that
El Occidente, a steamer of the Southern Pacific Company,
was injured by the fire; that the value of the barge after
the explosion and fire was $250 and her pending freight
at the time did not exceed $11,076.85; that the damage
to the Occidente was due not to the Bolikow but to her
own negligent management and the lack of power of the
tug which attempted to take her to a safe place; that
the claims of the owners of the Occidente were in excess
of $484,000; and that there were claims by persons on the
barge for death and injuries from the fire, amounting to
$50,000 in one case, and $15,000 in another. The owner
contested its liability and that of its barge Bolikow to
any extent whatever; but in case its liability were established, claimed and sought the benefit of the statutory
limitation of its liability. R. S. 4283, 4284, and 4285.
Pursuant to the court's order, the National Oil Transport Company and the Hartford Accident & Indemnity
Company executed an ad interim stipulation that the former, as principal, and the latter, as surety, undertook in
the sum of $11,326.85, with interest, that the Transport
Company would file a bond or stipulation for the limitation of its liability as owner of the barge Bolikow, exe-

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

cuted in due form of law for the value of the Transport
Company's interest in the barge and her pending freight,
with six per cent. interest thereon from December 23,
1920, within ten days after such values were determined
by appropriate proceedings in the court and an order
fixing such value was entered therein, and that pending
the filing of the formal stipulation, the ad interim undertaking should stand as security for all claims in the
proceeding.
The court then made an order directing the issuing of
a monition to claimants against the vessel and her owner
growing out of the explosion, and an injunction. Without further action as to fixing the value of the barge or
its pending freight, the claimants came in, the cause proceeded to a final decree, after a report by a commissioner,
the petition for limitation of liability was denied, the
claims in whole or in part were allowed, and the decree
proceeded:
"And it further appearing to the Court that neither the
petitioner nor its stipulator nor any other party or interest
has moved for or caused any re-appraisal or appraisal of the
petitioner's interest in said barge and her pending freight,
or either of them or caused any order to be entered by
the Court fixing such value except as was done by the
approval and filing of said ad interim stipulation as aforesaid and the issuance and publication of a monition thereon as aforesaid, and it further appearing to the Court
that no bond for value other than said ad interim stipulation has been filed herein by the petitioner and it appearing from the evidence introduced on the trial hereof
and the Court here and now finding that the value of the
petitioner's interest in said barge at the termination of
her voyage is $250, and that the value of the petitioner's
interest in the pending freight of said barge at the termination of said voyage is $11,076.85, and that the total
value of said petitioner's interest in said barge and her

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. SOU. PACIFIC.
207

213

Opinion of the Court.

pending freight at the termination of her said voyage is
$11,326.85; it is therefore ordered and decreed that unless
this decree be satisfied or an appeal be taken therefrom
within the time limited by law and the rules and practice
of this Court, the stipulator for value will cause the said
petitioner to pay into Court the sum of $11,326.85, the
amount of the value of the petitioner's interest in the said
barge and pending freight at the termination of her said
voyage, with 6 per cent. interest from December 23, 1920,
to be applied in payment of the costs of Court, the remainder to be pro-rated among the respective claimantrespondents in proportion to the amounts of the decrees
entered in their favor herein, or show cause why execution should not issue therefor, against goods, chattels and
lands of the stipulator for value."
The Hartford Indemnity Company, the stipulator, appealed from this decree, which the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit affirmed. 3 Fed. (2nd) 923. We
brought the case here by certiorari. 267 U. S. 590.
The contention of the petitioner is, that it could become
liable only in the event limitation of liability was granted,
and, as that relief was denied, the stipulation ceased to be
effective; that upon a denial of a limitation of liability
there ceased to be a res in court; that the proceeding was
no longer one in rem; and that suits for the claims against
the ship owner must be conducted in a court having jurisdiction on other grounds.
It is surprising that no case has ever arisen in which the
question here mooted has been directly decided, though
the effect of a decision refusing limitation has been the
subject of discussion in The Titanic, 204 Fed. 295, and in
The Virginia, 266 Fed. 437, 439. See also Dowdell v.
U. S. District Court, 139 Fed. 444; In re Jeremiah Smith
& Sons, 193 Fed. 395; The Santa Rosa, 249 Fed. 160.
The history and proper construction of the Limitation
of Liability Act of 1851, 9 Stat. 635, now embodied in

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

Revised Statutes, §§ 4282 to 4287, are shown in a series
of cases in this Court, the chief of which is the Norwich
Company v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104. Further consideration
to this subject was given by the Court in The Benefactor,
103 U. S. 239; in the Providence & New York Steamship
Company v. Hill Manufacturing Company, 109 U. S. 578;
in the City of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468, 503; in The Scotland, 118 U. S. 507; in Butler v. Boston & Savannah
Steamship Company, 130 U. S. 527; in In re Morrison,
147 U. S. 14, 34; in The Albert Dumois, 177 U. S. 240; in
The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398, and in the La Bourgogne,
210 U. S. 95.
These decisions establish, first, that the great object of
the statute was to encourage shipbuilding and to induce
the investment of money in this branch of industry, by
limiting the venture of those who build the ship to the
loss of the ship itself or her freight then pending, in cases
of damage or wrong, happening without the privity or
knowledge of the ship owner, and by the fault or neglect
of the master or other persons on board; that the origin
of this proceeding for limitation of liability is to be found
in the general maritime law, differing from the English
maritime law; and that such a proceeding is entirely within the consitutional grant of power to Congress to establish courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, Norwich v. Wright, 13 Wall. 104; that to effect the purpose of
the statute, Admiralty Rules Nos. 54, 55, 56 and 57 (now
51-54; see 254 U. S. Appendix, p. 25,) were adopted,
by which the owner may institute a proceeding in a
United States District Court in admiralty against one
claiming damages for the loss, in which he may deny any
liability for himself or his vessel, but may ask that if the
vessel is found at fault his liability as owner shall be
limited to the value of the vessel, as appraised after the
occurrence of the loss, and the pending freight for the
voyage; that these damages shall include, damages to

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. SOU. PACIFIC.
207

215

Opinion of the Court.

goods on board, second, damages by collision to other
vessels and their cargoes, and, third, any other damage or
forfeiture done or incurred; that all others having similar
claims against the vessel and the owner may be brought
into concourse in the proceeding, by monition, and enjoined from suing the owner and vessel on such claims in
any other court; that the proceeding is equitable in its
nature and is to be likened to a bill to enjoin multiplicity
of suits, Providence Steamship Co. v. Hill Manufacturing
Company, 109 U. S. 578; that, by stipulation after appraisement, the vessel and freight may be released and
the stipulation be substituted therefor; that, on reference
to a commissioner and the coming in of his report, it shall
be determined, first, whether the owner and his vessel are
liable at all; second, whether the owner may avoid all
liability except that of the vessel and pending freight;
third, what the amount of the just claims are, and, fourth,
how the fund in court should be divided between the claimants. The cases show that the court may enter judgment
in personam against the owner as well as judgment
in rem against the res or the substituted fund, City of
Norwich, 118 U. S. 468, 503; that the fund is to be distributed to all established claims to share in the fund to
which admiralty does not deny existence, whether they
be liens in admiralty or not, The Hamilton, 207 U. S. 398,
406; and that they may include damages from a collision,
from personal injuries, Butler v. Boston Steamship Co.,
130 U. S. 527, or for wrongful death, if arising under a law
of Congress, a State of the Union or a foreign state; which
is applicable to the owner and the vessel. The Bourgogne,
210 U. S. 95, 138.
It is quite evident from these cases that this Court has
by its rules and decisions given the statute a very broad
and equitable construction for the purpose of carrying out
its purpose and for facilitating a settlement of the whole
controversy over such losses as are comprehended within

216

OCTOBER TERM, *1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

it, and that all the ease with which rights can be adjusted
in equity is intended to be given to the proceeding. It is
the administration of equity in an admiralty court. Dowdell v. United States District Court, 139 Fed. 444, 445.
The proceeding partakes in a way of the features of a bill
to enjoin a multiplicity of suits, a bill in the nature of an
interpleader, and a creditor's bill. It looks to a complete
and just disposition of a many cornered controversy, and
is applicable to proceedings in rem against the ship as well
as to proceedings in personam against the owner, the limitation extending to the owner's property as well as to his
person. The City of Norwich, 118 U. S. 468, 503.
With this general view of the statute, we come to the
contention of the petitioner in this case. It says that the
owner only brings the suit to limit his liability, if it exists,
to the vessel and the freight for the voyage. If he fails in
his purpose and does not establish the limitation, no
progress can be made in behalf of the defendant or the
claimants in the collection of what has been found due
them; ahd, because he has lost that feature of his suit
against them, the case must be dismissed. This is said to
follow, even though it is apparent that by virtue of the
owner's suit and the injunction he secured he has delayed
and prevented his creditors from resorting to any other
forum to vindicate their rights against him. In this view
the defendant and the claimants thus may not thereafter
share in the fund or res, the deposit of which for the
benefit of the defendants and the claimants was the principal ground and the indispensable condition of the proceeding. The parties, it is argued, must thereafter be
remitted to a common law or equity court of the State to
secure their rights, unless diverse citizenship or the
admiralty character of their claims entitles them to resort
to, or remain in, a federal court.
Surely the admiralty court, in view of the large powers
intended to be given it in such a proceeding, is not so help-

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. SOU. PACIFIC.
207

217

Opinion of the Court.

less as this. So to hold would be to hold that, unless the
petitioner wins, the court does not have power to administer justice. There is nothing in the statute, nor in the
rules, that requires so feeble a conclusion. The jurisdiction of the admiralty court attaches in rem and in per8onam by reason of the custody of the res put by the petitioner into its hands. The court of admiralty, in working
out its jurisdiction, acquires the right to marshal all
claims, whether of strictly admiralty origin or not, and to
give effect to them by the apportionment of the res and
by judgment in personam against the owners, so far as the
court may decree. It would be most inequitable if parties
and claimants, brought in against their will and prevented
from establishing their claims in other courts, should be
unable to perfect a remedy in this proceeding promptly,
and should be delayed, until after the possible insolvency
of the petitioner, to seek a complete remedy in another
court, solely because the owner can not make his case of
personal immunity. 1 Benedict's Admiralty, 5th ed., 488.
If Congress has constitutional power to gather into the
admiralty court all claimants against the vessel and its
owner, whether their claims are strictly in admiralty or
not, as this court has clearly held, it necessarily follows as
incidental to that power that it may furnish a complete
remedy for the satisfaction of those claims by distribution
of the res and by judgments in personam for deficiencies against the owner, if not released by virtue of the
statute.
Such a conclusion is quite in accord with the rules governing equity procedure in general conformity with which
this limitation of liability statute has been construed and
enforced. Where a court of equity has obtained jurisdiction over some portion of a controversy, it may and will
in general proceed to decide all the issues and award
complete relief, even where the rights of parties are
strictly legal and the final remedy granted is of the kind

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

which might be conferred by a court of law. 1 Pomeroy's
Equity Jurisdiction, 4th ed., §§ 181 and 231; United
States v. Union Pacific Railway, 160 U. S. 1, 52. See also
Equity Rule 10, amended May 4, 1925, 268 U. S. 709,
Appendix. Of course, this equitable rule enlarging the
Chancellor's jurisdiction, in order to completely dispose of
the cause before him, does not usually apply in an admiralty suit. Grant v. Poalon, 20 How. 162; Turner v.
Beacham, Taney's Reports 583, Federal Case No. 14252;
The Pennsylvania, 154 Fed. 9; The Ada, 250 Fed. 194.
But this limitation of liability proceeding differs from the
ordinary admiralty suit, in that, by reason of the statute
and rules, the court of admiralty has power (Providence
Steamship Co. v. Hill Manufacturing Co., 109 U. S.578)
to do what is exceptional in a court of admiralty-to grant
an injunction, and by such injunction bring litigants, who
do not have claims which are strictly admiralty claims,
into the admiralty court. Benedict on Admiralty, 5th ed.,
§ 70, note 97. There necessarily inheres, therefore, in the
character of the limitation of liability proceeding, in reference to such non-admiralty claims, the jurisdiction to fulfil
the obligation to do equitable justice to such claimants by
furnishing them a complete remedy.
The indemnity company seeks in this review to avoid
its liability under an ad interim stipulation having a provision that such stipulation, if not changed to a formal
stipulation, shall stand as security for all claims in the
limitation proceeding. The stipulation is a substitute for
the vessel itself and the freight which was released by
reason thereof. The effect of such a stipulation in admiralty is set forth by Mr. Justice Story in The Palmyra,
12 Wheat. 1, where he says:
"Whenever a stipulation is taken in an admiralty suit,
for the property subjected to legal process and condemnation, the stipulation is deemed a mere substitute for the
thing itself, and the stipulators liable to the exercise of

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. SOU. PACIFIC.
207

219

Opinion of the Court.

all those authorities on the part of the court, which it
could properly exercise if the thing itself were still in its
custody. This is the known course in admiralty. It is
quite a different question whether the court will, in particular cases, exercise its authority where sureties on the
stipulation may be affected injuriously; that is a question
addressed to its sound discretion."
In The Oregon, 158 U. S. 186, 210, after reference to
The Palmyraand an examination of the English authorities, it was held that the use of bail as a substitute for the
property itself is confined to" all points fairly in adjudication before the Court." In that case a stipulator for the
release of a vessel libeled for a collision was held not to be
responsible to interveners in the suit, intervening after
the release of the vessel, in the absence of express agreement to that effect. In reversing the court below, this
Court said, through Mr. Justice Brown:
"We think the court must have confounded a stipulation
given to answer a particular libel with a stipulation for
the appraised value of the vessel, under the limited liability act, which by general admiralty rule 54, is given for
payment of such value into court whenever the same shall
be ordered, and in such case the court issues a monition
against all persons claiming damages against the vessel,
to appear and make due proof of their respective claims.
And by rule 55, after such claims are proven and reported,
'the moneys paid, or secured to be paid into court as
aforesaid, or the proceeds of said ship or vessel and freight
shall be divided pro rata amongst the several claimants,
in proportion to the amount of their respective claims.'
By rule 57, if the ship has been already libelled and sold,
the proceeds shall represent the same for the purpose of
these rules. In all cases cited, in which it has been said
that the stipulation is a substitute for the thing itself, the
remark has been made either with reference to the particular suit in which the stipulation is given, or with reference to a stipulation for the appraised value of the yes-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

sel, where the stipulation stands as security for any claim
which may be filed against her up to the amount of the
stipulation."
It is quite evident from this that the stipulation under
Rule 51 (formerly 54), et seq., is to be treated as a substitute for the vessel itself for all claims that may normally
arise out of the character of litigation carried on under
such rules. That litigation, as we have seen, may properly
be carried to a complete settlement of all claims, without
regard to whether the prayer for limitation of liability is
denied or not. The stipulator must, therefore, pay in
full on his undertaking to enable the court to pay the
costs and make the pro rata distribution.

Judgment affirmed.
CHARLESTON MINING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 93.

Argued January 10, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. A finding of fraud in fact which is not clearly erroneous will not be
disturbed when concurred in by two federal courts below. P. 223.
2. The Act of March 3, 1845, granting to the State of Florida "section numbered 16 in every township or other land equivalent
thereto" for school purposes, was not self-executing in the indemnity provision, but left the grant dependent, in that regard, upon
future action of Congress. P. 224.
3. Assuming that under the Act of 1845 there was an equitable obligation in fulfillment of the graht to provide for selection of mineral
as well as non-mineral indemnity lands, yet the only actual provision (Rev. Stats. §§ 2275 and 2276, as amended February 28, 1891)
limits selection to land not mineral in character; and consequently
a certification of mineral land is unauthorized, and, when procured
upon false representation that the land is non-mineral, is voidable
at the suit of the United States. P. 225.
3 Fed. (2d) 1019, affirmed.

