BARRETT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
220

Syllabus.

acter. They were approved December 11, 1907, and were
certified to the State December 18, 1907, and were thereupon conveyed by the State to one who took title for the
appellant, who had procured the selection and the certification. These sections require that the indemnity lands
to be conveyed thereunder shall not be mineral in character. Only Congress can convey title to the land of the
United States, and it makes no difference what was its
equitable obligation to convey title under the original
grant of 1845 in respect of indemnity lands. Congress
certainly intended to convey as indemnity lands only
those described in the Act of 1891. There was no power
in anyone representing the United States, therefore, to
convey indemnity land which was mineral in character;
and any scheme by which conveyance of such land was
obtained was a fraud upon the United States.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

BARRETT COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 105.

Submitted January 7, 1927.--Decided February 21, 1927.

1. After cancellation of a contract under which supplies were to be
manufactured for the Government in a plant to be built with government funds and to belong to the Government, the making of a
supplemental agreement by which the contractor bought the plant
for a price stated did not affect the contractor's claims growing out
of the termination of the original contract, when the later agreement was expressly without prejudice to them. P. 232.
2. The just compensation to which a claimant is entitled upon cancellation of a contract by the Government, under the Act of June
15, 1917, is not to be measured by the profit that would have
accrued under the contract, but must embrace that value which
was taken from the contractor by the termination of the contract.
The contractor is to be credited with his outlays reasonably made
for the fulfillment of the contract. P. 235.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

3. In this case, where the obligation of the contractor was to manufacture and furnish to the Government a definite quantity of xylol
monthly, up to a specified amount, in a plant which was to be
erected by the contractor with government funds and belong to the
Government, just compensation, upon cancellation of the contract,
must include what the contractor expended on the plant in excess of
the cost as estimated and adopted in the contract and paid by the
Government, in so far as such additional expenditure was required
to fit the plant for production of the xylol as the contract contemplated. P. 234.
60 Ct. Cls. 343, reversed.

from a judgment of the Court of Claims in an
action to recover under an agreement with the Government for the manufacture of xylol.
APPEAL

Messrs. George A. King and William B. King, with
whom Mr. FrancisH. McAdoo was on the brief, for the
appellant, submitted.
Solicitor General Mitchell for the United States, submitted.
MR. CHrmF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from the Court of Claims under

§§ 242 and 243 of the Judicial Code from a judgment of
February 16, 1925, before the effective date of the Act
of February 13, 1925, § 14, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936.
The findings of fact by the Court of Claims show that
the Barrett Company, the claimant and appellant, a corporation under the laws of New Jersey, entered into a
contract with the United States by which it undertook,
with funds provided by the Government, to erect a plant
at Frankford, Pennsylvania, for the distillation of xylol
at the rate of 225,000 gallons per month, and, after completion, to operate the plant until a total of 2,700,000
gallons of xylol had been produced. The xylol was to
be distilled and refined from special solvent naphtha fur-

BARRETT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
227

229

Opinion of the Court.

nished by the Government, and was at all times to belong
to the Navy. The by-products, except what the Navy
wished to retain, were to belong to the Barrett Company
as part of its profit, but not to be sold without the Navy's
written consent. Ninety per cent. of the by-products
sold by the company was to be credited to the account
of the Navy, less one cent a gallon for rental of containers
used for shipment.
The price to be paid by the Navy to the company was
to be determined monthly for the preceding month by
the actual deliveries, first, by a charge per gallon of xylol
prorating the total approved estimated cost of the new
plant against the 2,700,000 gallons to be made under the
contract. At the same time, the account of the Navy
was to be credited with this charge, as the total approved
estimated cost would have been advanced by the United
States to the company before the production of the xylol
would begin. To cover operating cost, there was to be a
charge of 3 cents per gallon of naphtha distilled, and an
additional charge for redistillation of fractions. These
charges were to be multiplied by the gallons of naphtha
distilled, and the resulting aggregate was to be divided
by the number of gallons produced monthly, to which
6.6 cents per gallon was to be added to cover overhead,
profit dnd use of patents.
The new plant was to be an annex to the appellant's
existing distillation plant and equipment. The estimated
cost to be furnished by the Government, was to be exhibited to the authorities of the Navy Department for
approval, prior to the execution of the contract, and was
to consist of two parts. First, there was to be an itemized estimate to cover the cost of the separate unit plant
and equipment, and, second, an itemized estimate to
cover the cost of parts of the plant and equipment needed
for the supply of electric power, steam,, water, and light,
which would not be distinctly separate from the existing

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

plant and equipment of the company. One-half of the
sum to be advanced for construction was to be paid by
the Government at the time of the execution of the contract, and the balance in two months. Plant and equipment were to be ready for operation within five months
from the date of the contract, and to be continued in
operation until the company had delivered the full
amount of 2,700,000 gallons of xylol to E. I. du Pont de
Nemours and Company. The xylol provided for in the
contract was to be employed in the manufacture of trinitroxylol, for use in mine barrage in the North Sea, and
was a new product requiring knowledge and skill in its
manufacture. The plant, when completed, was to belong
to the Government. The company agreed to offer and
to pay 25 per cent. of the approved estimated cost for
it if accepted, after the contract was performed; but the
Government could dispose of it as it chose.
It was stipulated in the contract that the Barrett Company should furnish a bond for the faithful performance
of the contract, equal to the approved estimate of the cost
of construction; that time was an essential element in the
contract; that, by failure to make delivery in conformity
with the requirements of the contract and within the
times prescribed, the United States would be damaged;
that the damage should be liquidated for each day's delay
at the rate of a certain per cent. of the contract price;
and that legal excuse for delays was to be determined by
the United States.
The company's estimate for the separate unit and
equipment was $192,547.80, and that for the plant for
supplying electric power, steam, water and light was $60,773.32,-a total of $253,321.12. These estimates were
approved by the Navy Department, and one-half of the
cost, $126,660.56 was advanced to the plaintiff on the
execution of the contract, and the remainder was paid
two months thereafter.

BARRETT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
227

Opinion of the Court.

On May 18th, 1918, the Navy Department gave notice
to the company that it might proceed immediately upon
the construction of the plant. It did so, and completed
the separate plant at a cost of $284,882.66. The electric,
steam, water and light plant had been, at the time of the
armistice, about half constructed, at a cost of $52,897.53.
The total expenditure on plant and equipment, by the
company, was thus $337,780.19, or $84,459 more than the
estimates submitted by the plaintiff. The increased cost
of construction was due to the increases in the cost of
labor and materials, and to a change in construction from
steel and brick to reinforced concrete and brick, due to
inability to secure steel, and to certain changes in the
tanks as originally proposed, in order to increase their
capacity. None of these changes was either directly
authorized or approved by the Navy Department; but it
does appear that the Department had knowledge of the
changes and made no objection thereto.
After the armistice, November 18, 1918, the Navy Department notified the plaintiff that the manufacture of
xylol under the contract should be discontinued; that
construction work remaining to be completed under the
contract would not be undertaken, and that the fact that
the Navy would receive a partly finished plant would be
considered in the final adjustment to be made with regard
to the contract. The Navy thereafter discontinued
further supply of naphtha, and work under the contract
was terminated.
The Navy Department, on December 1, 1918, made a
supplementary agreement with the company, by which
the company bought the whole plant for $110,000. This
supplemental contract contained the following: " It is
further agreed that this supplementary contract does not
prejudice the right of the contractor to secure payment
of claims in settlement for the termination of the original
contract No. 38925 by the Government,"

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

From the xylol produced and delivered for three months,
the company made a profit of $7,195.59. It was testified
by accountants that the profits to the company on the
undelivered part would have been $73,792.66, and that its
profits from the future by-products would have been
$8,237; but these results were uncertain and problematical.
The Court of Claims allowed four items claimed by the
appellant, amounting in all to $10,995.08, and for this
amount gave judgment.
The statute under which this contract was cancelled by
authority of the President, and under which this suit was
brought, provides that " whenever the United States shall
cancel, suspend or requisition any contract . . . it
shall make just compensation therefor to be determined
by the President," and, if the amount determined by him
is unsatisfactory to the claimant, he may sue the Government to recover such sum as, added to that which he may
have already received, will be just compensation therefor. Act of June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Stat. 183.
The appellant makes but three assignments of error.
1. That the court held that the supplemental contract
of December 1, 1920, was a bar to reimbursement of
claimant for expenditures in connection with the erection of the plant.
2. That it failed to allow claimant as just compensation for cancellation $84,459.07 expended for construction
of plant over and above the approved estimate.
3. That it did not allow interest on the sum included
in the judgment.
First. The Court of Claims seems to have held that
the supplemental contract by which the company purchased the plant for $110,000 operated as a final settlement of all claims it had against the Government. In
its opinion, speaking of the purchase, it said:
"In many respects, this transaction alone would be
sufficient to preclude recovery claimed for this item of

BARRETT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
227

Opinion of the Court.

loss; it was a final adjustment of losses with respect to
this particular controversy."
We are unable to see that the supplemental agreement
could have any such effect, in view of the specific clause
of the supplemental contract stipulating that the claims
of the contractor should not be prejudiced thereby.
Second. The Solicitor General tenders to the Court the
opinion of the Court of Claims, and an extract from the
brief of the United States in that court, to show the argument there made against including in the recovery of the
plaintiff, as part of just compensation, the amount expended by it in excess of the estimate it made for the cost
of the plants to be erected. The Solicitor General, however, finds himself obliged to assist the Court (and in this
we think he is to be commended) in presenting a view
adverse to the conclusion of the Court of Claims and to
the contention of the United States in that court.
The Court of Claims in its opinion said upon this point:
"It is true the plaintiff, because of emergency conditions, determined to go beyond its express warrant of
authority and incur added expense in the construction of
the desired plant, but the contract itself contemplated
no such increased expense, and there were manifestly no
contractual obligations imposed upon the plaintiff to do
what it did do. But, says the plaintiff, except for the
exercise of the right of termination, the additional expense of construction would have been amortized in the
total profits received upon completion, and therefore becomes a sum indispensably necessary to make the plaintiff whole. Apparently, a sufficient answer is the assumption of such a risk by the plaintiff. The right to terminate under the statute was part of the contract, and an
unauthorized expense incurred depended for reimbursement upon the contingency of its exercise. What the
plaintiff did, over and above the limitations of its contractual obligations and rights, it did of its own free will

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

and assumed the hazards of recouping the same out of
its final profits, in the event the contract proceeded to
conclusion. It is not asserted that the contract supports
the plaintiff's contention. The contention is predicated
entirely upon the theory of just compensation. We have
been unable to resolve the issue in plaintiff's favor. The
just compensation to which the plaintiff is entitled, under
the cases heretofore considered by the court, is limited to
the stipulations of the contract, which by its terms imposed obligations and reciprocal rights and privileges
upon the parties to the contract. The contract fixed the
status of the parties thereunder. If one goes beyond its
terms it is difficult to perceive how financial obligations
to pay more than is agreed to be paid can be inferred on
the single theory that the defendant in the exercise of a
lawful right terminated all further proceedings under the
same and is held thereafter to account for no more than
just compensation. In view of the cases cited the just
compensation to be awarded must be a loss lawfully resulting from a performance of the contract according to
its terms, and may not embrace one occasioned by the
contractor's departure from the contract, although considered by the contractor at the time as expedient and in
promotion of the rapid completion of the whole contract."
We can not concur in this view of the effect of cancellation, under the circumstances and the terms of the
contract. We think, with the Solicitor General, that
the provisions for the construction of the plant and the
production and payment for the product and the disposition of the by-products are all to be construed together
as one contract. The main obligation of the Company,
and the chief purpose of the contract, was to furnish to
the Government 2,700,000 gallons of xylol at 225,000 gallons monthly. All else was incidental and ancillary to
that. It was obliged to distill 225,000 gallons monthly in
the months required, The money to be advanced by

BARRETT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
227

Opinion of the Court.

the Government was doubtless an indispensable aid to
the company's fulfillment of its contract. The estimates
limiting the amount were in the interest of the Government. But the possibility that the estimates might not
furnish a plant of sufficient capacity to do the work
within the time mentioned did not relieve the company;
and if it thought a larger expenditure necessary for this,
it must make it. Just compensation for cancelling the
contract requires that the contractor shall be made whole
and recover the expenditures necessary to perform the
contract. It would have been no defense, had the company failed to perform and the Government had sued
for a breach, that the plant erected upon the estimate
was not sufficient to do what was agreed. That was the
contractor's risk.
The contract in fixing the elements of the price per
gallon of xylol speaks of adding 6.6 cents to cover overhead, profit and use of patents; but we are not concerned
with profits in this case. Russell Motor Car Coinpany v.
United States, 261 U. S. 514; College Point Boat Corporation v. United States, 267 U. S. 12.
What the company is entitled to is just compensation
for the contract which was taken from it, and under the
cases just cited it should certainly be credited with the
outlay which it can show there was reasonable ground
for making in order to fulfill its engagements. On the
other hand, the Government may show, without regard
to the estimates, that the actual additional expenditures
were really not required for the fulfillment of the contract,
or if less than what was spent was needed, then how
much less. The case must be remanded for new evidence
and new findings on this issue.
The other assignment of error is to the failure of the
Court of Claims to allow interest on that which was or
should be recovered. In support of this assignment of
error, the appellant contends that, as prospective profits

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

can not be calculated as part of the recovery in a cancellation case, and as just compensation, under the decision in the Seaboard Air Line case, 261 U. S. 299, must
include interest on the amount due from the time of cancellation, interest must be allowed here. The Government
argues that, as this contract was made after the power
of cancellation was given by the statute, its provision for
the cancellation must be regarded as written into the contract, Russell Motor Car Company v. United States, 261
U. S. 514; College Point Boat Corporation v. United
States, 267 U. S. 12; that, when so written in, cancellation
is part of the risk run under the contract, and, therefore,
that interest on the amount due under the contract can
not be collected, because of lack of specific agreement for
it under § 177 of the Judicial Code. This exact point
has never been decided by the Court. Several especially
set cases are now pending in which this is the sole issue
raised. As the case must go back for further consideration, we prefer to leave the point undecided and to await
the argument in those cases, which will probably be disposed of before the issue here will be ready for further
consideration by the Court of Claims in this case.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is reversed and
remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.
DE FOREST RADIO TELEPHONE COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 142. Argued January 20, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
A license to make and use a patented article does not depend on formal language, and, as a defense to a subsequent suit for infringement, a license may be inferred from the patent owner's words and
acts indicative of his consent, with a reservation of his right to
compensation. P. 241.
60 Ct. Cls. 1034, affirmed.

