324

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

accounting officers. This method was recognized and
accepted by appellant in the present case. See Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. United States, 58 C. Cls. 622, 631.
Judgment affirmed.
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 82. Argued January 6, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
A claim for profits anticipated from the performance of a contract
with the Government cannot be based on delays caused by changes
made by the Government, when under the contract itself the remedy
for such delays was to be an extension of time to the contractor, and
when the contract was terminated by a supplemental agreement
expressly releasing all claims for such profits. P. 325.
60 Ct. Cls. 201, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims disallowing in part a claim under a contract to make Very
pistols for the Government.

Mr. Raymond M. Hudson for the appellant.
Solicitor General Mitchell and Assistant Attorney General Galloway were on the brief for the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought to recover upon a contract between appellant and the United States 'to manufacture a
large number of Very pistols. It was stipulated in the
contract that the Government might terminate it in whole
or in part at any time and in that event certain enumerated payments were to be made, not including, however,
prospective profits upon uncompleted articles. The contract provided that upon written notice the Government

DAVIS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
324

325

Opinion of the Court.

might make changes in the specifications, increased cost, if
any, to be paid, and, for any delay in consequence thereof,
a corresponding extension of time for the performance of
the contract to be allowed. After the Armistice appellant
was requested to suspend work with a view to the negotiation of a supplemental contract providing for the cancellation, settlement and adjustment of the existing contract.
Subsequently, appellant filed a claim; and a partial payment supplemental contract was executed, by which the
Government agreed to make appellant an advance payment and speedily determine and pay certain specified
items. Appellant agreed that it would not perform further
work or services, or incur further expense in connection
with the performance of the uncompleted part of its original contract, and expressly waived "all claim to the prospective profits which he [it] might have made from the
performance of that portion of said original contract
which under the terms of this supplemental agreement
will not be performed." The advance payment was made,
and the court below found that, after its deduction and the
allowance of another credit, there was due appellant a
balance of $14,192.25; and it refused to allow appellant
anything for profits which appellant would have realized
if the contract had been performed. Judgment was rendered accordingly. 60 C. Cls. 201. The appeal to this
court was taken under the law as it stood prior to the Act
of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936.
Appellant contends that changes made by the Government in the specifications, etc., occasioned such delay as
to preclude full operations under its contract prior to the
termination thereof, and that it should have judgment for
the profits which it would otherwise have made. The conclusive answer to this contention is two-fold: (1) The
contract itself specified the remedies, to which appellant
would be entitled in the event of changes in or a complete
or partial termination of the contract, among which pros-

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

273 U. S.

pective profits were not included; and (2) appellant by
the terms of the supplemental contract expressly released
all claims to such profits.
Judgment affirmed.
SACRAMENTO NAVIGATION COMPANY v. SALZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 51.

Argued December 2, 3, 1926.--Decided February 21, 1927.

1. A contract for the transportation of cargo shipped on board a
barge, with privilege to the carrier of reshipping, in whole or in
part, on steamboats or barges and of towing with one steamer two
or more barges at the same time, is a contract of affreightment, in
which it is necessarily implied that the barge as a means of transportation will be used in conjunction with a steamer or tug, to be
furnished by the carrier, the two constituting together the effective
instrumentality. P. 328.
2. In such case, the barge and the tug together constitute the "vessel transporting merchandise or property" within ยง 3 of the Harter
Act. P. 330.
3. The rule of strict construction is not violated by permitting the
words of a statute to have their full meaning or the more extended
of two meanings. P. 329.
3 F (2d) 759, reversed.
CERTIORARI (268 U. S. 683) to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed a decree of the District
Court in favor of Salz, the present respondent, in a suit
in personam brought by him to recover for the loss of a
cargo of barley while it was being towed by the petitioner
under a contract of affreightment.

Mr. Louis T. Hengstler, with whom Messrs. H. H. Sanborn and Frederick W. Dorr were on the brief, for the
petitioner.
Mr. Carroll Single, with whom Mr. S. Hasket Derby
was on the brief, for the respondent.

