FORD v. UNITED STATES.
589

Syllabus.

United States and sustain it, as required in § 237a of the
Judicial Code, as amended, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 937, permitting a writ of error. But assuming that it does, or, if
not, treating the writ of error as an application for certiorari, there is not the slightest ground for sustaining the
assignment.
A prisoner may certainly be tried, convicted and sentenced for another crime committed either prior to or
during his imprisonment, and may suffer capital punishment and be executed during the term. The penitentiary
is no sanctuary, and life in it does not confer immunity
from capital punishment provided by law. He has no
vested constitutional right to serve out his unexpired sentence. Chapman v. Scott, 10 Fed. (2d) 690, affirming the
same case, 10 Fed. (2d) 156; Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S.
254; Rigor v. State, 101 Md. 465; State v. Wilson, 38
Conn. 126; Thomas v. People, 67 N. Y. 218, 225; Peri v.
People, 65 Ill. 17; Commonwealth v. Ramunno, 219 Pa.
St. 204; Kennedy v. Howard, 74 Ind. 87; Singleton v.
State, 71 Miss. 782; Huffaker v. Commonwealth, 124 Ky.
115; Clifford v. Dryden, 31 Wash. 545; People v. Flynn,
7 Utah 378; Ex parte Ryan, 10 Nev. 261; State v. Keefe,
17 Wyo. 227, 252; Re Wetton, 1 Crompt. & J. 459; Regina
v. Day, 3 F. & F. 526.
The writ of error is dismissed and
the certiorariis denied.
FORD ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 312. Argued October 26, 27, 1926.--Decided April 11, 1927.
1. In an indictment charging conspiracy to commit offenses against
laws of the United States, an allegation that it was also to violate
a treaty (prescribing no offense) may be rejected as surplusage.

P. 602.
428476-21-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

273 U. S.

2. Ignoring surplusage is not amending the indictment. P. 602.
3. An indictment charging a continuous conspiracy to commit offenses
against the United States by introducing and transporting liquor in
the United States in violation of the National Prohibition Act, and
by importing it into the United States in violation of the Tariff
Act, is not bad for duplicity. P. 602.
4. In determining the admissibility in a criminal case of evidence of a
seizure of property and persons, questions of fact affecting the
legality of the seizure are decided by the court without the jury.
P. 605.
5. Where the District Court has jurisdiction of the offense charged,
the question whether the defendants were wrongfully brought into
its custody through an unlawful seizure on the high seas must be
raised by a plea to the jurisdiction over their persons and is waived
by a plea of not guilty. P. 606.
6. The treaty of May 22, 1924, with Great Britain, which, within
limits stated, permits a British vessel in extraterritorial waters
to be boarded and searched by United States authorities, and, if
there is reasonable cause for belief that she has committed or is
committing or attempting to commit an offense against the laws of
the United States prohibiting the importation of alcoholic beverages, to be seized and taken into port "for adjudication in accordance with such laws,"--should be construed liberally, in effectuation
of its purpose, as contemplating that not only the ship but the
cargo and the persons on board may be taken in for adjudication.
Pp. 609, 618.
7. Principle of Expressio unius est exclusio alterius,considered. P. 611.
8. It is permissible under the treaty to prosecute the persons so
seized and brought into the United States not only for illegal
importation but also for conspiracy to commit that offense-where
the conspiracy charged (under Crim. Code § 37) included as overt
acts actual importation and an attempt. United States v. Rauscher,
119 U. S. 407, distinguished. Pp. 614, 616.
9. One may be guilty as a party to a conspiracy to import liquors
into the United States in violation of the Prohibition Law, followed
by overt acts in this country, although he was and remained outside of its territorial jurisdiction. P. 619.
10 F. (2d) 339, affirmed.

CERTIORARI (271 U. S. 652) to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a conviction of conspir-

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Argument for Petitioners.

acy to import liquor into the United States in violation
of the Prohibition Law. See 3 F. (2d) 643.
Messrs. J. Harry Covington, Harold C. Faulkner, and
Marion De Vries, with whom Messrs. Dean G. Acheson,
George Roscoe Davis, and Louis V. Crowley were on the
brief, for petitioners.
The history of the legal and diplomatic situation which
led to the treaty of May 22, 1924, shows that friction
had developed between the United St'ares and Great
Britain because of the seizure of British vessels by the
United States beyond the territorial waters of this country, a practice never before attempted by this country in
time of peace. The seizure of hovering vessels beyond
territorial waters rests upon the acquiescence of the sovereign whose flag is thus violated, and is not a matter
of right. Fish, Secretary of State, to Thornton, January
22, 1875; Moore's Digest Int. Law, 731; Buchanan, Secretary of State, to Crampton, August 19, 1848; Evarts,
Secretary of State, to Fairchild, March 3, 1881; 1 Moore
732; Cunard S. S. Co. v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 100. In a
group of early cases in this Court the subject of seizure
beyond the three-mile limit was discussed. Church v.
Hubbart, 2 Cr. 187; Rose v. Himely, 4 Cr. 241; Hudson
v. Guestier, 6 Cr. 281. See Wheaton, Int. L. 8th ed.,
§ 179; 1 Moore 727. One thing alone appears clearlythe exercise of authority beyond the three-mile limit
depends upon its acceptance by other nations, in each
ipstance, as reasonable under the conditions. There has
been nothing more provocative of international friction
than searches and seizures by one nation of the vessels of
another nation on the high seas.
Up to the time of the decision of the cases arising
in connection with the enforcement of the national prohibition of intoxicating liquors, there is no case of the
seizure and forfeiture of a foreign vessel in time of peace

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Petitioners.

273 U. S.

which had never itself or through its boats come within
the territorial waters of the United States, except in the
fur seal controversy, and for these seizures the United
States paid compensation. Cunard v. Mellon, 262 U. S.
100; The Grace and Ruby, 283 Fed. 475; The Henry L.
Marshall,286 Fed. 260. In 1922 the United States began
to make seizures beyond the three-mile limit which action
evoked protests from Great Britain. The treaty of May
22, 1924, was made to settle in a complete way all questions involving the interference with British vessels beyond territorial waters. 43 Stat. 1761. It granted the
right to seize British vessels in certain areas beyond territorial waters for the sole and limited purpose of adjudicating the vessel only in accordance with the laws of the
United States prohibiting the importation of alcoholic
beverages.
The rules of construction of treaties are the same as
those relating to simple contracts. United States v. Choctaw Nation, 179 U. S. 494, and cases therein cited. Every
consideration which may affect construction of the treaty
supports the conclusion that Great Britain granted no
right to subject to criminal prosecution British subjects
brought into the United States as an incident of a seizure
under the treaty. The Sagatind, 11 Fed. (2d) 673;
Hennings v. United States, 13 Fed. (2d) 74; The Marjorie E. Bachman, 4 Fed. (2d) 405. The end sought to
be accomplished by the treaty was not the apprehension
and punishment of criminals. It was the seizure and forfeiture of hovering vessels used in introducing alcohofic
liquors into the United States. By such seizure and forfeiture the United States was seeking to clear its coasts of
these vessels and sought the co~peration of Great Britain
in extending the area in which it might seize these vessels
for the purpose of forfeiting them. So far as appears,
nothing more was asked and certainly nothing more was
granted.

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

597

Argument for Petitioners.

The defendants, having been brought within the jurisdiction of the United States by virtue of the treaty, may
not be proceeded against in a manner not permitted by it.
Foster v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 253. So clear is the treaty as
to the rights of British subjects upon the high seas that
it has been made the basis of decision in the federal
courts. The FrancesLouise, 1 Fed. (2d) 1004; The Marjorie E. Bachman, 4 Fed. (2d) 405; The Over The Top,
5 Fed. (2d) 838; The Pictonian, 3 Fed. (2d) 145; The
Sagatind, 11 Fed. (2d) 673; Hennings v. United States,
13 Fed. (2d) 74. If British subjects, brought into an
American port as an incident to the seizure of a British
vessel for purposes of adjudicating it under the laws prohibiting the importation of alcoholic liquors, can be indicted and convicted for conspiracy to violate the National Prohibition Act and the Tariff Act they can be
similarly dealt with for any offense against American
laws, even though, as in case of such a conspiracy, it is
not an offence mentioned in the treaty of May 22, 1924,
or in the extradition treaty. Such a result could hardly
be regarded by Great Britain other than as--"a fraud
upon the rights of the parties and bad faith toward the
country which permitted the seizure." United States v.
Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407.
The grand jury regarded the treaty as providing the
essence of the charge against these defendants. No evidence was adduced at the trial and presumably not before
the grand jury that these men had ever come within the
generally recognized territorial jurisdiction of the United
States. So important did the grand jury regard the treaty
in making unlawful the conduct charged against the defendants that in alleging two of the four overt acts it
used the exact language of the treaty to place the acts
as taking place within the distance from the coast of the
United States which the Quadra and the motor boats in
question could traverse in one hour.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for the United States.

273 U. S.

The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the indictment
and conviction by rejecting as surplusage the references
to the treaty in the charging paragraphs which made the
indictment fatally defective. This was done not only
after the grand jury had presented these defendants for
trial, but after the trial jury had found them guilty of
a conspiracy as alleged in the indictment. This the
Court had no power to do. Joplin Mercantile Co. v.
United States, 236 U. S. 531; Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1;
Dodge v. United States, 258 Fed. 300; Stewart v. United
States, 12 Fed. (2d) 524; United States v. Howard, 132
Fed. 325; Naftsger v. United States, 200 Fed. 494.
Section 37 of the Criminal Code is not operative against
British subjects upon a British vessel on the high seas.
Cunard S. S. Co. v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 100. The words of
§ 37 apparently having universal scope must be "taken
as a matter of course to mean only everyone subject to
such legislation, not all that the legislator subsequently
may be able to catch." Viewed in this light it will hardly
be contended that § 37 is to be construed as generally applicable. From whatever angle the present question is
approached the problem always remains whether § 37
shall be interpreted, as this Court has declared that all
criminal statutes should be interpreted, in accordance
with recognized international law. United States v. Bowman, 260 U. S. 94; Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt and Mr. John J. Byrne, Attorney
in the Department of Justice, were on the brief, for the
United States.
The seizure of the Quadrawas within the terms of the
treaty because the circumstances at the time gave reasonable cause for belief that the vessel and those on board
had committed or were committing or attempting to commit an offense against the laws of the United States pro-

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

599

Argument for the United States.

hibiting the importation of alcoholic beverages, and there
was evidence to sustain the finding that a boat intended
to convey liquor to shore could traverse the distance to
shore within an hour and that the seizure was within the
limit of distance fixed by the treaty. Grace anl Ruby,
283 Fed. 476; Henry L. Marshall, 292 Fed. 486.
The treaty contemplates that the vessel, her cargo, and
those on board shall be brought into port. When that is
done, if it appears that the persons on board have committed an offense, they may be prosecuted therefor. The
treaty does not, by its terms, provide that the crew or
cargo must be released, and no such stipulation is implied.
The implication is to the contrary, and the attempt to
establish an analogy between this case and extradition
cases fails. There is nothing in the treaty to sustain the
claim that the crew may not be tried for any offense, and
the treaty should not be narrowly construed only to permit their trial for violation of the substantive offense of
introduction of liquors, but not for conspiracy to do so.
The treaty should be construed to carry out its purposes
and to relate to violations of law on the subject of alcoholic beverages. United States v. Rauscher, 119 U. S.
407; Ker v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 436.
Although the officers of the vessel did not physically
come within the territorial limits of the United States,
they were parties to the conspiracy to commit crime
within the United States made by them with those within
the United States, and they directly aided, abetted and
combined with those within our jurisdiction in the commission of overt acts within the United States and are
therefore subject to trial and punishment under our laws.
United States v. Davis, 2 Sumn. 482; In re Palliser, 136
U. S. 257; Hornerv. United States, 143 U. S. 207; Benson
v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1; Commonwealth v. Macloon, 101
Mass. 1; People v. Adams, 3 Denio 190; McLoughlin v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

Raphael Truck Co., 191 U. S. 267; Reg. v.
Dearsly 232.
The statement in the indictment that the
conspired to unlawfully introduce liquor into
States in violation of the treaty may be
surplusage.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFrT

273 U. S.

Garrett, 1
defendants
the United
treated as

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a review by certiorari of the conviction of
George Ford, George Harris, J. Evelyn, Charles H. Belanger and Vincent Quartararo, of a conspiracy, contrary
to § 37 of the Criminal Code, to violate the National
Prohibition Act, Title II, §§ 3 and 29, c. 85, 41 Stat. 305,
308, 316, and the Tariff Act of 1922, § 593 (b), c. 356, 42
Stat. 858, 982. The trial and conviction resulted largely
from the seizure of the British vessel Quadra, hovering in
the high seas off the Farallon Islands, territory of the
United States, twenty-five miles west from San Francisco. The ship, her officers, her crew and cargo of liquor
were towed into the port of San Francisco. The seizure
was made under the authority of the treaty between
Great Britain and the United States, proclaimed by the
President May 22, 1924, 43 Stat. 1761, as a convention to
aid in the prevention of the smuggling of intoxicating
liquors into the United States.
The main questions presented are, first, whether the
seizure of the vessel was in accordance with the treaty;
second, whether the treaty prohibits prosecution of the
persons, subjects of Great Britain, on board the seized
vessel brought within the jurisdiction of the United States
upon the landing of such vessel, for illegal importation
of liquor; third, whether the treaty authorizes prosecution of such persons, not only for the substantive offense
of illegal importation or attempt to import, but also for
conspiracy to effect it; and, fourth, whether such persons,

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

without the United States, conspiring and coperating to
violate its laws with other persons who are within the
United States and to commit overt acts therein, can be
prosecuted therefor when thereafter found in the United
States.
The petitioners and fifty-five others were indicted in
November, 1924, for carrying on a continuous conspiracy
at the Bay of San Francisco, in the jurisdiction of the
United States, from January 1, 1924 to November of that
year, the date of the indictment, to commit offenses
against the laws of the United States, first, by introducing into and transporting in the United States intoxicating liquor, in violation of the National Prohibition Act;
second, by importing liquor into the United States, in
violation of § 593, sub-division (b), of the Tariff Act of
1922, making it a penal offense to introduce merchandise
into the United States in violation of law; and, third, by
violation of the terms of the treaty. It charged as overt
acts: the loading of 12,000 cases of liquor on the Quadra
at Vancouver, British Columbia, her proceeding on September 10, 1924, to a point less than twelve miles from
the Farallon Islands,--a distance which could be traversed
in less than an hour by the Quadra and by the motor
boats, 903 B, C-55, Marconi, California, Ocean Queen and
divers others, by which the liquor was then delivered from
her and imported into the United States; that on the 29th
of September, 1924, the defendants landed from the
steamer Quadra a barrel containing 100 gallons of whiskey,
and, at another time, on October 11, 1924, a large variety
of alcohol, gin, brandy, whiskey, and vermouth; and that,
at another time, on October 12th, the day of the seizure,
they attempted to land 89 sacks of whiskey, but that two
of the defendants, who were on the small craft C-55,
were arrested and were prevented from carrying out their
purpose. Two defendants pleaded guilty. Of twentynine defendants tried, nineteen, including all the crew of

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

the Quadra were acquitted, and ten, including the captain and the first and second officers of the Quadra, were
convicted. Of these ten, five, including the three officers,
are now before the Court as petitioners. The convictions were affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals of
the Ninth Circuit. 10 Fed. (2d) 339.
The validity of the indictment is attacked, first, because
it charges that the conspiracy was to violate the treaty,
although the treaty creates no offense against the law of
the United States. This is true, but that part of the
indictment is merely surplusage and may be rejected.
Bailey v. United States, 5 F. (2d) 437; Remus v. United
States, 291 Fed. 501; United States v. Weiss, 293 Fed.
992, 995; United States v. Drawdy, 288 Fed. 567, 570.
The trial court took this view. But it is contended that
this is to amend the indictment and comes within the
inhibition of the principle of Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1.
That decision condemns the striking out of words from an
indictment. The action here complained of is merely a
judicial holding that a useless averment is innocuous and
may be ignored. Goto v. Lane, 265 U. S. 393, 402;
Salinger v. United States, 272 U. S. 542. Next it is said
that the indictment is bad for duplicity. It charges a
continuous conspiracy by the defendants, at the Bay of
San Francisco, between January 1, 1924, and the date of
finding the indictment, to import into the United States
intoxicating liquor in violation of its laws. It mentions
two of such laws, and, as § 37 of the Criminal Code requires, it describes several overt acts in pursuance of the
conspiracy alleged. The charge is unitary in relating to
one continuous conspiracy, although in proof of it different circumstances constituting it and overt acts in pursuance of it are disclosed. This does not constitute duplicity. Frohwerk v. United States, 249 U. S. 204, 210;
Joplin Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 531, 548.

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

The case on the evidence made by the Government was
as follows:
On October 12, 1924, the United States Coast Guard
cutter Shawnee, on the lookout for vessels engaged in the
illicit importation into the United States of intoxicating
liquor, saw the Quadra, a British steamer of Canadian
register, near the Farallon Islands. As the Shawnee bore
down on her to investigate, she turned and began to move
off shore. The captain of the Shawnee signalled her to
stop, and she complied. As the Shawnee approached her,
a motor boat, C-55, was seen just after the boat had left
the Quadra. The Shawnee captain signalled the boat to
stop, and because it did not do so, fired a shot across its
bow, whereupon it rounded about and came alongside. It
had two men and a number of sacks of intoxicating
liquor, as well as a partly filled case of beer bottles. It
was made fast to the Shawnee and the two men were
placed under arrest. The Shawnee captain then sent two
officers aboard the Quadra to examine her papers. Ford,
her captain, one of the convicted defendants, refused to
show his papers or to give any information until he had
consulted counsel. The Shawnee officers then took
charge of her. She was found to contain a large quantity
of intoxicating liquor, and on refusal of Ford to take her
by steam into San Francisco, the Shawnee towed her to
that port and turned her cargo over to the United States
customs officers, while her officers and crew, including
Ford, were arrested.
The testimony for the Government tended to show that
the Quadra when seized was 5.7 nautical miles from the
Farallon Islands, and that the motor boat C-55 could have
traversed that distance in less than an hour.
The evidence for the Government at the trial further
showed there were three vessels, the Quadra, the Malahat,
and the Coal Harbour, chartered by a cargo-owning cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 IT. S.

poration called the Consolidated Exporters Corporation,
Limited, of Canada, and loaded at Vancouver, British
Columbia, with large cargoes of miscellaneous liquors;
that the Malahat left Vancouver in May officially destined
to Buenaventura, Colombia; that the Coal Harbour left
the same port in July with a similar cargo officially destined to La Libertad, San Salvador; and that the Quadra
left there in September, officially destined to La Libertad.
The captains of these vessels, while hovering near the
Farallones, were constantly in touch with the convicted
defendants Quartararo and Belanger, at San Francisco.
and acted to some extent under their orders and directions.

Quartararo was the most active agent of the conspiracy
on shore. Belanger was a director of the Canadian corporation above named. He arranged for and had sent from
San Francisco to the Malahat burlap containers to be
used for landing the bottled liquor, thence to be transferred
to the Quadra, and also gave the orders to transfer liquor
from one vessel to another, and to bring designated liquor
from the vessels' cargoes to the shore. The Quadra was
supplied with fuel oil from the shore, pursuant to prearrangement. None of the sea-going vessels above named
proceeded to their destinations officially described in their
ship's papers, but they cruised up and down between the
Farallones and the Golden Gate, where the exchanges of
liquor and sacks were made and where the needed oil

was delivered, and from where the liquor was carried by
small boats to a landing place called Oakland Creek, in
San Francisco. The evidence of the conspiracy, the landing of the liquor and the complicity of the convicted defendants therein was ample and practically undenied.
There was a preliminary motion to exclude and suppress
the evidence of the ship and cargo. It was contended that
the seizure was unlawful because not within the zone of
the high seas prescribed by the treaty; and that the
officers of the Quadra being prosecuted were protected

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

-Opinion of the Court.

against its use as evidence against them under the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments to the Federal Constitution. The
motion was heard by the District Court without a, jury
and was denied in an opinion reported in 3 Fed. (2d) 643.
The evidence of the Government showed that the Quadra
was seized at a distance from the Farallon Islands of 5.7
miles, and a test made later of the speed of the motor boat
C-55, caught carrying liquor from her, showed that it
could traverse 6.6 miles in an hour. There was a conflict
as to the exact position of the Quadra at the time of the
seizure. It was further objected that the speed of the
motor boat was not made under the same conditions as
those which existed at the time of the seizure.
The question of the evidential weight of the test as well
as of all the circumstances was for the judgment of the
trial court. As it has been affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, we see no reason to reverse it.
It is objected that the question of the validity of the
seizure should have been submitted to the jury. So far as
the objection relates to the admission of evidence, it has
already been settled by this Court that the question is for
the court and not for the jury. Steele v. United States,
267 U. S. 505, 511; Gila Valley Railway Company v. Hall,
232 U. S. 94, 103; Bartlett v. Smith, 11 M. & W. 483; Doe
dem. Jenkins v. Davies, 10 Ad. & El. N. S. 314; Cleave v.
Jones, 7 Exchequer 421, 425; Wigmore on Evidence, (2nd
ed.) vol. V., p. 556, § 2550.
It is further objected, however, that the issue as to the
place of the seizure, though submitted to and disposed of
by the court in respect of the admissibility of evidence,
should also have been submitted to the jury on the general
issue. The Solicitor Gpneral answers, on the authority of
Ker v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 436, that an illegal seizure would
not have ousted the jurisdiction of the court to try the
defendants. But the Ker case does not apply here. It
related to a trial in a state court, and this Court found

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 IT.S.

that the illegal seizure of the defendant therein violated
neither the Federal Constitution, nor a federal law, nor a
treaty of the United States, and so that the validity of
their trial after alleged seizure was not a matter of federal
cognizance. Here a treaty of the United States is directly
involved, and the question is quite different.
But there is a reason why this assignment of error can
not prevail. The issue whether the ship was seized within
the prescribed limit did not affect the question of the
defendants' guilt or innocence. It only affected the right
of the court to hold their persons for trial. It was necessarily preliminary to that trial. The proper way of raising
the issue of fact of the place of seizure was by a plea to
the jurisdiction. A plea to the jurisdiction must precede
the plea of not guilty. Such a plea was not filed. The
effect of the failure to fie it was to waive the question of
the jurisdiction of the persons of defendants. Dowdell v.
United States, 221 U. S. 325, 332; Albrecht v. United
States, 273 U. S. 1; Gardner v. United States, 5 Indian
Territory 150, 156; Regina v. Stone, 23 Ontario 46, 50;
In re Paul, 5 Alberta Law 442; State v. Bishop, 7 Conn.
181; State v. Watson, 20 R. I. 354; State v. Kinney, 41
Iowa 424; In re Roszcynialla, 99 Wis. 534, 538; State ex
rel. Brown v. Fitzgerald, 51 Minn. 534; In re Brown, 62
Kan. 648; State v. Browning, 70 S. Car. 466; Hollibaugh
v. Hehn, 13 Wyo. 269; In re Blum, 9 N. Y. Misc. 571; 1
Bishop Crim. Proc. (2d ed.) §§ 730, 744 and 746; 1 Chitty
Criminal Law (5th Am. ed.) p. 438. It was not error
therefore to refuse to submit to the jury on the trial the
issue as to the place of the seizure.
There was a demurrer to the indictment, on the grounds
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute an offense
against the United States, that the court had no jurisdiction to try those who were on the Quadra because seized
beyond the three-mile limit, and that the acts charged
were not within the jurisdiction of the court. The con-

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

spiracy was laid at the Bay of San Francisco, which was
within the jurisdiction of the court. The conspiracy
charged was undoubtedly a conspiracy to violate the laws
of the United States under § 37 of the Criminal Code.
The court had jurisdiction to try the offense charged in
the indictment and the defendants were in its jurisdiction
because they were actually in its custody.
The defendants contend that on the face of the indictment and the treaty they are made immune from trial.
This requires an examination and construction of the
treaty.
The preamble of the treaty recites that the two nations,
being desirous of avoiding any difficulties which might
arise between them in connection with the laws in force
in the United States on the subject of alcoholic beverages,
have decided to conclude a convention for the purpose.
The first four Articles are as follows:
"ARTICLE I.

"The High Contracting Parties declare that it is their
firm intention to uphold the principle that 3 marine miles
extending from the coast-line outwards and measured from
low-water mark constitute the proper limits of territorial
waters.
"ARTICLE II.

"(1) His Britannic Majesty agrees that he will raise
no objection to the boarding of private vessels under the
British flag outside the limits of territorial waters by the
authorities of the United States, its territories or possessions in order that enquiries may be addressed to those
on board and an examination be made of the ship's papers
for the purpose of ascertaining whether the vessel or those
on board are endeavoring to import or have imported
alcoholic beverages into the United States, its territories
or possessions in violation of the laws there in force.

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

When such enquiries and examination show a reasonable
ground for suspicion, a search of the vessel may be instituted.
"(2) If there is reasonable cause for belief that the
vessel has committed or is committing or attempting to
commit an offense against the laws of the United States,
its territories or possessions prohibiting the importation
of alcoholic beverages, the vessel may be seized and taken
into a port of the United States, its territories or possessions for adjudication in accordance with such laws.
"(3) The rights conferred by this article shall not be
exercised at a greater distance from the coast of the
United States its territories or possessions than can be
traversed in one hour by the vessel suspected of endeavoring to commit the offense. In cases, however, in which
the liquor is intended to be conveyed to the United States
its territories or possessions by a vessel other than the one
boarded and searched, it shall be the speed of such other
vessel and not the speed of the vessel boarded, which shall
determine the distance from the coast at which the right
under this article can be exercised.
"ARTICLE qIII.
"No penalty or forfeiture under the laws of the United
States shall be applicable or attach to alcoholic liquors or
to vessels or persons by reason of the carriage of such
liquors, when such liquors are listed as sea stores or cargo
destined for a port foreign to the United States, its territories or possessions on board British vessels voyaging to
or from ports of the United States, or its territories or
possessions or passing through the territorial waters
thereof, and such carriage shall be as now provided by
law with respect to the transit of such liquors through the
Panama Canal, provided that such liquors shall be kept
under seal continuously while the vessel on which they
are carried remains within said territorial waters and that

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

no part of such liquors shall at any time or place be unladen within the United States, its territories or possessions.
"ARTICLE IV.

"Any claim by a British vessel for compensation on the

grounds that it has suffered loss or injury through the
improper or unreasonable exercise of the rights conferred
by Article II of this Treaty or on the ground that it has
not been given the benefit of Article III shall be referred
for the joint consideration of two persons, one of whom
shall be nominated by each of the High Contracting
Parties.
"Effect shall be given to the recommendations contained
in any such joint report. If no joint report can be agreed
upon, the claim shall be referred to the Claims Commission established under the provisions of the Agreement
for the Settlement of Outstanding Pecuniary Claims
signed at Washington the 18th August, 1910, but the
claim shall not, before submission to the tribunal, require
to be included in a schedule of claims confirmed in the
manner therein provided."
The other two articles relate only to duration and
ratification.
The treaty indicates a considerate purpose on the part
of Great Britain to discourage her merchant ships from
taking part in the illicit importation of liquor into the
United States, and the further purpose of securing without objection or seizure the transportation on her vessels,
through the waters and in ports of the United States, of
sealed sea stores and sealed cargoes of liquor for delivery
at other destinations than the United States. The
counter-consideration moving to the United States is the
enlargement and a definite fixing of the zone of legitimate
seizure of hovering British vessels seeking to defeat the
laws against importation of liquor into this country from
42847 °-27-39-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U.S.

the sea. The treaty did not change the territorial jurisdiction of the United States to try offenses against its importation laws. That remained exactly as it was. If the
ship could not have been condemned for such offenses
before the treaty, it can not be condemned now. If the
persons on board could not have been convicted before
the treaty, they can not be convicted now. The treaty
provides for the disposition of the vessel after seizure.
It has to be taken into port for adjudication. What is
to be adjudicated? The vessel. What does that include?
The inference that both ship and those on board are
to be subjected to prosecution on incriminating evidence
is fully justified by paragraph 1 of Article II, in specifically permitting examination of the ship papers and inquiries to those on board to ascertain whether, not only
the ship, but also those on board, are endeavoring to
import, or have imported, liquor into the United States.
If those on board are to be excluded, then by the same
narrow construction the cargo of liquor is to escape adjudication, though it is subject to search as the persons
on board are to inquiry into their guilt. It is no straining of the language of the article therefore to interpret
the phrase "the vessel may be seized and taken into a
port of the United States

.

.

.

for adjudication in

accordance with such laws," as intending that not only
the vessel but that all and everything on board are to be
adjudicated. The seizure and the taking into port necessarily include the cargo and persons on board. They can
not be set adrift or thrown overboard. They must go
with the ship-they are identified with it. Their immunity on the high seas from seizure or being taken into
port came from the immunity of the vessel by reason of
her British nationality. When the vessel lost this immunity, they lost it too, and when they were brought into
a port of the United States and into the jurisdiction of
its District Court, they were just as much subject to its

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

adjudication as the ship. If they committed an offense
against the United States and its liquor importation laws,
they can not escape conviction, unless the treaty affirmatively confers on them immunity from prosecution.
There certainly are no express words granting such immunity. Why should it be implied? If it was intended
by the parties why should it not have been expressed?
It is urged that the principle of interpretation, Expressio unius est exclusio alterius, requires the implication
from the reference to the adjudication of the vessel alone.
This maxim properly applies only when in the natural
association of ideas in the mind of the reader that which
is expressed is so set over by way of strong contrast to
that which is omitted that the contrast enforces the
affirmative inference that that which is omitted must
be intended to have opposite and contrary treatment.
But here, as we have already pointed out, the obvious
and necessary association of the seizure and the taking
to port of the cargo and those on board with that of the
vessel naturally carries the same association with the step
of adjudication. This destroys the idea of contrast so
that the inference based on the maxim can not here be
drawn. The ship, on the one hand, and those on her
and her cargo, on the other, are not, in the natural reading
of the words, set over against each other. The words
"for adjudication " are arranged as incidental to the
seizure and taking into port, in which the persons on
board and the cargo must be included. Why then should
they be excluded from the last of the three steps described
in the disposition of the vessel?
The maxim of interpretation relied on is often helpful,
but its wise application varies with the circumstances.
United States v. Barnes, 222 U. S. 513, 518-519; City
of New York v. Davis, 7 F. (2d) 566, 575; Saunders v.
Evans, 8 H. L. C. 721, 729; London Joint Stock Bank
v. Mayor, 1 C. P. D. 1, 17; Colquhoun v. Brooks, 21 Q.

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

B. D. 52, 65. Broom's Legal Maxims, 7th Ed., p. 653,
says:
"It will, however, be proper to observe, before proceeding to give instances in illustration of the maxim, Expressio unius est exclusio alterius, that great caution is
requisite in dealing with it for, as Lord Campbell observed
in Saunders v. Evans, it is not of universal application,
but depends upon the intention of the party as discoverable upon the face of the instrument or of the transaction; thus where general words are used in a written
instrument, it is necessary, in the first instance, to determine whether those general words are intended to include other matters besides such as are specifically
mentioned, or to be referable exclusively to them, in
which latter case only can the above maxim be properly
applied."
Lord Justice Lopes says of the maxim in Colquhoun v.
Brooks, supra:
"It is often a valuable servant, but a dangerous master
to follow in the construction of statutes or documents.
The exclusio is often the result of inadvertence or accident, and the maxim ought not to be applied, when its
application, having regard to the subject-matter to which
it is to be applied, leads to inconsistency or injustice."
What reason could Great Britain have for a stipulation
clothing with immunity either contraband liquor which
should be condemned or the guilty persons aboard, when
the very object of the treaty was to help the United
States in its effort to protect itself against such liquor
and such persons, from invasion by the sea.? To give
immunity to the cargo and the guilty persons on board
would be to clear those whose guilt should condemn the
vessel and to restore to them the liquor, and thus release
both for another opportunity to flout the laws of a
friendly government which it was the purpose of the

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

treaty to discourage. The owner of the vessel would thus
alone be subjected to penalty, and he would suffer for
the primary guilt of the immunized owner of the liquor.
Such implication of immunity leads to inconsistency and
injustice. The palpable incongruity contended for is
such that, without express words, we can not attribute to
the high contracting parties intention to bring it about.
Nor have we been advised that Great Britain has ever
suggested that under this treaty a crew of a vessel lawfully seized could not be brought into port or tried according to our laws. Diligent as the representatives of that
nation have always been in guarding the rights of their
people, such a construction of the treaty has not been
advanced. It is said by the Solicitor General without contradiction that, following a number of seizures of British
ships on our coasts under the treaty, those on board have
been indicted and tried for offenses against the laws relating to intoxicating beverages, and that the State Department records show no objection of immunity therefrom to
have been claimed for them by the British Government.
One instance cited is in respect of the crew of the British
schooner Francis E., which was seized off the coast of Alabama, and whose master and crew were arrested and
indicted and subsequently tried and convicted for conspiracy to smuggle intoxicating liquors into the United States.
Under date of June 30, 1925, pending the trial, the British
Embassy communicated to the Secretary of State a complaint, as follows:
"As you are doubtless aware, the British schooner Frances E of Nassau was seized by a United States revenue
cutter on April 24th last and was later escorted into the
port of Mobile, Alabama, where her master and crew were
arrested and charged with conspiracy to violate the
National Prohibition laws.
" I am informed that the defendants in this case have
now been incarcerated in gaol since April 28th last and are

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

still awaiting trial and that the long delay, added to their
uncertainty as to the future, is causing them considerable
suffering."
The request was then made that the trial be expedited,
and this was followed by a similar request in October,
1925; but there was no claim that any immunity from
trial was secured by the treaty to those who were brought
in on the vessel seized.
The case of the United States v. Rauscher, 119 U. S.
407, is relied on to establish the immunity contended for
in this case. Rauscher was convicted under an indictment in a federal court for cruel and unusual punishment
of one of the crew of an American vessel of which Rauscher was an officer. He had been extradited from British
territory for murder on the high seas under § 4339 of the
Revised Statutes. The question was whether he could
be tried in this country for another offense than that for
which he was extradited,-for an offense for which the
treaty granted no right to extradition. The extradition
treaty was that of August 9, 1842, between Great Britain
and the United States, 8 Stat. 576, in which each country,
upon mutual requisition of the other, agreed to deliver to
justice all persons who, being charged with the crime of
murder, or assault with intent to commit murder, or
piracy, or arson, or robbery, or forgery, or the utterance of
forged paper, committed within the jurisdiction of either,
should seek an asylum or should be found, within the territories of the other: provided, that this should only be
done upon such evidence of criminality as, according to
the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so
charged should be found, would justify his apprehension
and commitment for trial, if the crime or offense had there
been committed; and the respective judges and other
magistrates of the two Governments were given jurisdiction upon complaint made under oath, to issue a warrant
for the apprehension of the fugitive or person so charged,

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

that he might be brought before such judges or other magistrates, respectively, to the end that the evidence of
criminality might be heard and considered; and if, on such
hearing, the evidence were deemed sufficient to sustain the
charge, it should be the duty of the examining judge or
magistrate to certify the same to the proper executive
authority, that a warrant might issue for the surrender of
such fugitive. The court held that a defendant thus extradited could not be tried for any offense other than the
one for which he was extradited. The case was decided
at the end of a prolonged controversy between Great
Britain and the United States through their State Departments on the same issue presented in several cases.
The opinion of the Court was delivered by Mr. Justice
Miller, and his conclusions were based, first, on the
ground that, according to the doctrine of publicists and
writers on international law, the country receiving the
offender against its laws from another country in the
absence of treaty has no right to proceed against him for
any other offense than that for which he had been delivered up; second, that the enumeration of the offenses
in the treaty there involved marked such a clear line in
regard to the magnitude and importance of those offenses
that it was impossible to give any other interpretation
to it than the exclusion of the right of extradition in
others; third, the provisions of the treaty giving a party
an examination before a judicial tribunal in,which, before
he should be delivered up, the offense for which he was
to be extradited must be proved to the satisfaction of
the tribunal, left no doubt that the purpose of the treaty
was that the person delivered up should be tried for that
offense and no other; and fourth, that the provisions of
§§ 5272 and 5275 of the Revised Statutes required such
course in the trial of extradited persons.
This review of the opinion in the Rauscher case shows
that it affords no support for the implication of immunity

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U.S.

of the smugglers or would-be smugglers, or the contraband cargo, in the case before us. If it were attempted
to try the defendants or to forfeit the cargo that was
brought into port, for smuggling of forbidden opium, a
different question might possibly be presented. But
here the subjecting of the defendants and the cargo, by
the seizure of the vessel, to the jurisdiction of the courts
of the United States is for a conspiracy to do the smuggling of liquor which was the ground for the vessel's
seizure. This destroys any real analogy between the
Rauscher case and this. More than this, the strength
of the provisions of the treaty in the Rauscher case, as
detailed in the opinion, to establish the sound application
of the exclusio maxim of interpretation, shows how weak
by contrast is its application to the circumstances of this
case.
It is next objected that the convicted defendants taken
from the Quadra were not triable under the indictment,
because it charges an offense against them for which under
the treaty neither they nor the Quadra could have been
seized in the prescribed limit. It is very doubtful
whether the objection was made in time and was not
waived by the plea of not guilty; but we shall treat it
as having been duly made. The contention of counsel
on this point is that the treaty permits seizure only for
the substantive offense of importing, or attempting to
import, liquor illegally, and not for a conspiracy to do so.
These defendants were indicted under § 37 of the Criminal Code of the United States for having conspired at
the Bay of San Francisco to violate the National Prohibition Act and the Tariff Act of 1922. Section 37 of
the Criminal Code provides that if two or more persons
conspire to commit an offense against the United States,
and one or more of such parties commit any act to effect
the object of the conspiracy, each shall be punished.

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

The National Prohibition Act, c. 85, § 3, 41 Stat. 305,
308, enacted October 29, 1919, provides:
"No person shall on or after the date when the 18th
Amendment to the Constitution goes into effect, manufacture, sell, barter, transport, import, export, deliver,
furnish or possess any intoxicating liquor except as authorized in this Act, and all the provisions of this Act
shall be liberally construed to the end that the use of
intoxicating liquor as a beverage may be prevented."
The Tariff Act of September 21, 1922, 42 Stat., c. 356,
§ 593 (b) provides that if any person fraudulently or
knowingly imports or brings into the United States, or
assists in doing so, any merchandise contrary to law, he
shall be fined or imprisoned. The importation of liquor
into the United States is contrary to law, as shown by
the Prohibition Act.
The indictment charged as overts acts that the defendants and each of them on the 10th and 29th of September,
and October 11th, by small boats from the Quadra landed
illegally in San Francisco substantial quantities of liquor,
and on the 12th of October, the day of the seizure, attempted to land another lot of liquor but were defeated
by the seizure.
The preamble of the treaty recites that the two nations,
being desirous of avoiding any difficulties which might
arise between them in connection with the laws in force
in the United States on the subject of alcoholic beverages,
have decided to conclude a convention for the purpose.
Paragraph (1) of Article II provides for boarding, examiination and search to ascertain whether the ship or those
on board were "endeavoring to import or have imported
alcoholic beverages into the United States in violation of
the laws there in force." The second paragraph of Article II permits the seizure on belief that "the vessel has
committed or is committing or is attempting to commit

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U.S.

an offense against the laws of the United States prohibiting the importation of alcoholic beverages."
Considering the friendly purpose of both countries in
making this treaty, we do not think any narrow construction should be given which would defeat it. The parties
were dealing.with a situation well understood by both.
In effect they wished to enable the United States better
to police its seaboard by enabling it, within an hour's sail
from its coast, beyond its territorial jurisdiction and on
the high seas, to seize British actual or would-be smugglers
of liquor and, if they were caught, to proceed criminally
against them as if seized within the three-mile limit for
the same offenses, in reference to liquor importation. No
particular laws by title or date were referred to in the
treaty but only the purpose and effect of them. Plainly,
it was the purpose of the contracting parties that vessels
and men who are caught under the treaty and are proven
to have violated any laws of the United States, by which
the importation of liquor is intended to be stopped
through forfeiture or punishment, may be prosecuted
after the seizure. The National Prohibition Act expressly
punishes the importation of intoxicating liquor. The
Tariff Act of 1922 declares it an offense to make any
illegal importation, and so makes it an offense to import
intoxicating liquor. Section 37 of the Criminal Code
makes it an offense to conspire to violate the Prohibition
Act and the Tariff Act in respect of the importation of
liquor, if the conspiracy is accompanied by overt acts in
pursuance of it. The conspiracy act is the one most
frequently used in the prosecution of liquor importations
from the sea, because such smuggling usually necessitates
a conspiracy in preparation for the landing. We think
that any more limited construction would not satisfy the
reasonable expectations of the two parties. Nothing in
the words of the treaty makes such an interpretation a
difficult one. The penalties under each act differ from

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

those under the others. The Tariff Act and the conspiracy
section each imposes a maximum penalty of two years,
while that of the Prohibition Act is only six months, with
a lower maximum of fine. The differences are clearly not
sufficient to affect the construction. The substantive
offense of importing liquor is in law a different one from
the preparatory offense of conspiring to import liquor;
but where, as here, the overt acts of the conspiracy include
an actual importation of liquor and an attempt, it would
seem to be quite absurd to hold that the conspiracy set
forth does not come within the scope of the treaty. This
is not a case for keeping within the technical description
of a particular offense. It is not a formal extradition
treaty where it is necessary, in protection of the persons
to be extradited and carried from one country to another,
that the crime for which they are to be tried should be
described with nicety and precision to permit the operation of the principles recognized and enforced in the
Rauscher case. Any law, the enforcement of and punishment under which will specifically prevent smuggling of
liquor, should be regarded as embraced by the treaty.
The British Government has advanced no contrary view.
In the letter from the British Embassy, of June 30, 1925,
already referred to, the fact that the master and crew of
the British schooner Francis E. of Nassau, were arrested
and charged with conspiracy to violate the National Prohibition laws, was not made the basis of complaint or protest but only of a request that the trial be expedited. The
error assigned upon this point can not be sustained.
The next objection of the defendants taken from the
Quadra is that on all the evidence they were entitled to a
directed verdict of not guilty. They argue that they are
charged with a conspiracy illegally to import, or to
attempt to import, liquor into the United States when
they were corporeally at all times during the alleged conspiracy out of the jurisdiction of the United States and

620

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

S.
273 IT.

so could commit no offense against it. What they are
charged with is conspiring "at the bay of San Francisco"
with the defendants Quartararo and Belanger illegally to
import liquor, and the overt acts of thus smuggling and
attempting to smuggle it. The conspiracy was continuously in operation between the defendants in the United
States and those on the high seas adjacent thereto, and of
the four overt acts committed in pursuance thereof, three
were completed and took effect within the United States
and the fourth failed of its effect only by reason of the
intervention of the federal officers. In other words, the
conspiring was directed to violation of the United States
law within the United States by men within and without
it, and everything done was at the procuration and by the
agency of each for the other in pursuance of the conspiracy and the intended illegal importation. In such a
case all are guilty of the offense of conspiring to violate
the United States law whether they are in or out of the
country.
In Strassheim v. Daily, 221 U. S.280, Daily had been
convicted of procuring Armstrong, a public official of
Michigan, to pay bills presented to the State which Armstrong knew to be fraudulent. It was objected that, during the whole period of the crime, Daily was in Chicago,
Illinois, and could not be punished under an indictment
found in Michigan for such an offense. This Court denied the claim, saying (pp. 284, 285):
"If a jury should believe the evidence and find that
Daily did the acts that led Armstrong to betray his trust.
deceived the Board of Control, and induced by fraud the
payment by the State, the usage of the civilized world
would warrant Michigan in punishing him, although he
never had set foot in the State until after the fraud was
complete. Acts done outside a jurisdiction, but intended
to produce and producing detrimental effects within it,
justify a State in punishing the cause of the harm as if

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

he had been present at the effect, if the State should succeed in getting him within its power. Commonwealth v.
Smith, 11 Allen 243. 256, 259; Simpson v. State, 92 Georgia 41; American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213
U. S. 347. 356; Commonwealth v. Macloon, 101 Mass. 1,
6, 18. We may assume therefore that Daily is a criminal
under the laws of Michigan."
Other cases in this Court which sustain the same view
are Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S.1; Re Palliser, 136 U. S.
257; Homer v. United States, 143 U. S. 207; Burton v.
United States, 202 U. S. 344, 387; and Lamar v. United
States, 240 U. S. 60, 65, 66.
There has been much discussion of this general principle. and its application has been varied in some courts because of certain rules of the common law with respect to
principals and accessories; but in the consideration of such
a case as this, we are not controlled by such considerations
and regard the principle as settled, as in the passage
quoted. It is supported by other authorities: Commonwealth v. Gillespie, 7 Sargent & Rawle 469, 478; Rex v.
Brisac and Scott, 4 East, 164; State v. Piver, 74 Wash.
96; Weil v. Black, 76.W. Va. 685, 694.
In Regina v. Garrett, Dearsly's Crown Cases Reserved,
232, 241, Lord Campbell said:
"I do not proceed upon the ground that the offense was
committed beyond the jurisdiction of the Court "-which
was the fact there-" for if a man employ a conscious or
unconscious agent in this country, he may be amenable
to the laws of England, although at the time he was living
beyond the jurisdiction."
It will be found among the earlier cases that the principle is sometimes qualified by saying that the person out
of the State can not be held for a crime committed within
the State by his procuration unless it is done by an innocent agent or a mechanical one; but the weight of authority is now against such limitation. Generally the

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

cases show that jurisdiction exists to try one who is a conspirator whenever the conspiracy is in whole or in part
carried on in the country whose laws are conspired against.
In Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347; Brown v. Elliott,
225 U. S. 392, the question was whether a conspiracy
could be tried, not where it was carried on, but in a place

where only an overt act under it was performed by one
conspirator. There was strong diversity of opinion
among the Justices, though a majority sustained the
venue following the Court of King's Bench in Rex v. Brisac and Scott, 4 East, 164. But we have no such ground
for difference here, for the conspiracy was being carried on
all the time by communications exchanged between the
conspirators in San Francisco and on the high seas juit
beyond the three-mile limit near San Francisco Bay, and
the overt acts were in both places.
The whole question was fully considered from the international standpoint in a learned opinion by John Bassett
Moore, now Judge of the Permanent Court of International Justice, while he was Assistant Secretary in the
State Department, to be found in Moore's International
Law Digest, vol. 2, p. 244. The report was made in view
of controversy between this Government and the Government of Mexico in reference to the arrest and imprisonment of one Cutting for a libel charged to have been
committed by Cutting in the publication of an article in
a newspaper in the State of Texas. The prosecution was
under Article 186 of the Mexican Penal Code. That code
provided that penal offences committed in a foreign country against a Mexican might be punished in Mexico. Our
govermnent maintained that it could not recognize the
validity of a prosecution in Mexico of an American citizen
who happened thereafter to be there, for an offense committed in the United States, merely because it was committed against a Mexican. In the course of the examina-

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
593

Opinion of the Court.

tion of this question, Mr. Moore, recognizing the principle
already stated, said:
"The principle that a mani who outside of a country
wilfully puts in motion a force to take effect in it is
answerable at the place where the evil is done, is recognized in the criminal jurisprudence of all countries. And
the methods which modern invention has furnished for
the performance of criminal acts in that manner has made
this principle one of constantly growing importance and
of increasing frequency of application.
"Its logical soundness and necessity received early recognition in the common law. Thus it was held that a man
who erected a nuisance in one county which took effect in
another was criminally liable in the county in which the
injury was done. (Bulwer's case, 7 Co. 2 b. 3 b.; Com.
Dig. Action, N. 3, 11.) So, if a man, being in one place,
circulates a libel in another, he is answerable at the latter
place. (Seven Bishops' Case, 12 State Trials, p. 331;
Rex v. Johnson, 7 East. 65.)"
After referring to the doctrine of innocent agent and its
dependence on the distinctions between accessories and
principal in crime, Judge Moore says (p. 249):
" But, as has been shown, the doctrine of accessoryship
has been abolished by statute in many jurisdictions in
which it formerly prevailed, and is condemned by many
writers as unnecessary and unsound. Referring to accessories before the fact, Mr. Bishop says:
"' The distinction between such accessory and a principal rests solely in authority, being without foundation
either in natural reason or in the ordinary doctrines of
the law. The general rule of the law is, that what one
does through another's agency is to be regarded as done
by himself.'
"And on this point he cites Broom's Legal Maxims, 2d
ed., p. 643; Co. Lit. 258a; and the opinion of Ilosmer,
C. J., in Barkharnsted v. Parsons, 3 Conn. 1, that 'the

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

principal of common law, Qui facit per alium, facit per se,
is of universal application, both in criminal and civil
cases.'"
The overt acts charged in the conspiracy to justify
indictment under § 37 of the Criminal Code were acts
within the jurisdiction of the United States, and the conspiracy charged, although some of the conspirators were
corporeally on the high seas, had for its object crime in
the United States and was carried on partly in and partly
out of this country, and so was within its jurisdiction
under the principles above settled.
We have thus disposed of the chief objections. There
are some objections to the admission of evidence, one with
respect to the receipt of a telegram charged by the Government to be from Belanger, a defendant, sent to Dorgan,
his co-director of the Canadian corporation which owned
the cargoes of liquor; another objection based on the
receipt in evidence of eighty-three dollar bills cut in two
with liquor orders written on them, associated in the
evidence with Quartararo and charged to show that he had
used them for the purpose of sending them out to the
officers of the rum runners to identify his agents for the
safe delivery of the liquor. Another was as to the evidence of a witness who pleaded guilty and who was permitted to testify that at the instance of Quartararo, shown
by the evidence to be the chief operator in the conspiracy,
he brought into San Francisco liquor in small boats, not
only from the Quadra, the Coal Harbour and the Malahat,
controlled by the Canadian corporation, but many times
during the period of the conspiracy alleged in the indictment also from a vessel called the Norburn, without the
direct evidence that the Norburn was controlled by the
same Canadian corporation, and therefore that it was
irrelevant evidence of another conspiracy rather than the
one charged. With respect to all these instances, we think

R. R. COMMISSION v. DULUTH ST. RY.
593

625

Syllabus.

that there was sufficient probable connection with the conspiracy already shown to allow the items of evidence to
be introduced, leaving to the jury the weight of it, but
that even if in any of such instances there was error, they
were merely cumulative proof of the conspiracy which was
practically undenied and their admission was harmless.
The judgment of conviction of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
RAILROAD AND WAREHOUSE COMMISSION OF
MINNESOTA ET AL. v. DULUTH STREET RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 228. Argued March 14, 15, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.
1. A public utility claiming that an order of a state commission fixing

its rates deprives it of a fair return, is not bound to exhaust a
statutory remedy by appeal to the state court before going into the
federal court, when it is possible that such remedy might be held
judicial rather than legislative in character, and the decision therefore res judicata against the complainant. P. 627.
2. The requirement that state remedies in such cases be exhausted
before coming into the federal court is not a fundamental principle
of substantive law but merely a requirement of convenience or
comity. P. 628.
3. A street railway, in electing to come under a state statute providing that its rates may be fixed by a commission with review by
appeal to the state courts, does not thereby contract that it will
exhaust the statutory remedy before suing in the federal court
when the rate fixed by the commission is confiscatory. P. 628.
4. Where under the state law a street railway and a city both had
the right to appeal to the state court from an order of a commission fixing the railway fare, a suit by the railway in the federal
court to enjoin enforcement of the order as confiscatory, to which
the city is a party, gives the city its day, and is not objectionable
as cutting off its right of appeal to the state court. P. 629.
4 F. (2d) 543, affirmed.
42847°-27-40

