34

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

273 U. S.

which, regarded superficially, may seem to escape the
challenge of illegality but which, in reality, strike at the
substance of the constitutional right.
Judgment reversed.
DI SANTO v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 288. Argued October 27, 1926.--Decided January 3, 1927.
A state law requiring persons, other than railroad or steamship companies, who engage within the State in the sale of steamship tickets
or orders for transportation to or from foreign countries, to procure
a license, by giving prodf of moral character, paying a small annual
fee, and filing a bond as security against fraud or misrepresentation
to purchasers, is a direct burden on foreign commerce, contravening the commerce clause of the Constitution, and cannot be sustained as a proper exercise of the state police power to prevent
possible fraud. P. 35.
So held as applied to one who was authorized by four steamship
companies to sell their tickets at a specified place and who was
supplied by them with tickets, advertising matter, schedules of
sailings, and other information, and authorized by them to collect
the money for the tickets sold and required to give bonds to the
respective companies and to account to each for moneys received
for its tickets, less a percentage for his remuneration.
285 Pa. 1, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, sustaining a conviction of Di Santo, for selling
steamship tickets without first having procured a license
as required by a law of that State.
Messrs. William H. Neely and John H. Neely, Jr., for
the plaintiff in error.
Messrs. Philip S. Moyer and E. Le Roy Keen, with
whom Mr. George W. Woodruff, Attorney General of
Pennsylvania, was on the brief, for the defendant in error.

DI SANTO v. PENNSYLVANIA.
34

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Plaintiff in error was indicted in the Court of Quarter
Sessions of Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, for a violation
of an Act of the Legislature of July 17, 1919, as amended
by the Act of May 20, 1921, P. L. 997, requiring licenses
to sell steamship tickets or orders for transportation to or
from foreign countries. The indictment alleged that, December 14, 1921, without having obtained a license so to
do, plaintiff in error held himself out as authorized to sell
tickets and orders for transportation as agent of certain
steamship companies, and that he engaged in the sale of
such tickets. There was no controversy as to the facts;
and, by direction of the court, the jury returned a verdict
of guilty. Plaintiff in error, by motion in arrest of judgment, challenged the validity of the Act on the ground
that it contravenes the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution. The court held the statute valid, and sentenced him to pay a fine. On appeal the Superior Court
held the Act unconstitutional and reversed the judgment.
The Supreme Court reversed the Superior Court and reinstated the judgment of the trial court. The case is
here under § 237(a) of the Judicial Code.
The Act of 1921 provides that no person or corporation, other than a railroad or steamship company, -shall
engage within the State in the sale of steamship tickets
or orders for transportation or shall hold himself out as
authorized to sell such tickets or orders without having
first procured a license. It requires every applicant to
cause his application to be advertised in specified publications, to furnish proof that he is of good moral character
and fit to conduct the business, to give a list of the steamship lines, not less than three, for which he is agent, and
to file a bond in the penal sum of $1,000 conditioned that
he will account to all interested persons for moneys received for tickets and orders and that he will not be guilty

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

of any fraud or misrepresentation to purchasers. The license is granted on approval of the Commissioner of Banking and payment of a fee of $50.00, and may be renewed
on payment of a like fee annually. The license may be
revoked for fraud, misrepresentation, or failure to account.
Any person carrying on this business without license is
declared guilty of a misdemeanor and liable to fine or
imprisonment or both. The state Supreme Court declared that the Act is one to prevent fraud; and held that
it does not require an agent or servant of the steamship
companies to have a license, but that plaintiff is not such
an agent, and that he occupies a position in the nature
of an independent contractor, and is required to obtain
a license.
Plaintiff represented four steamship companies operating steamships between the United States and Europe.
Each of them gave him a certificate authorizing him to
sell, at a specified place in Harrisburg, tickets and orders
for transportation entitling persons therein named to
passage on such steamships; and required the certificate
to be posted in his office. This is in accordance with the
Pennsylvania Act of 1863, P. L. 582, regulating the display of certificates by steamship agents; and a copy of
that Act was printed on the certificate. The companies
furnished plaintiff in error books of tickets having stubs
on which to make record of tickets sold, advertising matter to be used by him, schedules of sailings, notices of
cancelations of sailings, and information as to the imnigration and customs services; and they authorized him
to collect money for tickets sold. He usually received
25 per cent. of the price when applications were made
for the tickets. He gave each company a bond to account; and transmitted immediately to his respective
principals the amounts received by him.
The soliciting of passengers and the sale of steamship
tickets and orders for passage between the United States

DI SANTO v. PENNSYLVANIA.
34

Brandeis and Holmes, J. J., dissenting.

and Europe constitute a well-recognized part of foreign
commerce. See Davis v. Farmers Co-operative Co., 262
U. S. 312, 315. A state statute which by its necessary
operation directly interferes with or burdens foreign commerce is a prohibited regulation and invalid, regardless
of the purpose with which it was passed. Shafer v.
Farmers Grain Co., 268 U. S. 189, 199, and cases cited.
Such legislation cannot be sustained as an exertion of
the police power of the State to prevent possible fraud.
Real Silk Mills v. Portland, 268 U. S. 325, 336. The
Congress has complete and paramount authority to regulate foreign commerce and, by appropriate measures, to
protect the public against the frauds of those who sell
these tickets and orders. The sales here in question are
related to foreign commerce as directly as are sales made
in ticket offices maintained by the carriers and operated
by their servants and employees. The license fee and
other things imposed by the Act on plaintiff in error, who
initiates for his principals a transaction in foreign commerce, constitute a direct burden on that commerce. This
case is controlled by Texas Transport Co. v. New Orleans,
264 U. S. 150, and McCall v. California,136 U. S. 104.
Judgment reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRANDEIS,

with whom MR. JusTIcE

HOLMES concurs, dissenting.
The statute is an exertion of the police power of the
State. Its evident purpose is to prevent a particular
species of fraud and imposition found to have been practiced in Pennsylvania upon persons of small means, unfamiliar with our language and institutions.! Much of the
'A similar statute had been enacted in New York, with the approval
of Governor (afterwards Mr. Justice) Charles E. Hughes. Laws of
New York 1910, c. 349, amended by Laws of New York 1911, c. 578.
And similar laws have been enacted also in other States. Indiana,
Burns' Ann. Stat. 1926, §§ 4681-4685; Michigan, Cahill's Comp.

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Brandeis and Holmes, J. J., dissenting.

273 U. S.

immigration into the United States is effected by arrangements made here for remittance of the means of travel.
The individual immigrant is often an advance guard.
After gaining a foothold here, he has his wife and children,
aged parents, brothers, sisters or other relatives follow.
To this end he remits steamship tickets or orders for
transportation. The purchase of the tickets involves trust
in the dealer. This is so not only because of the nature
of the transaction, but also because a purchaser when
unable to pay the whole price at one time makes successive deposits on account, the ticket or order not being
delivered until full payment is made. The facilities for
remitting both cash and steamship tickets are commonly
furnished by private bankers of the same nationality as
the immigrant. It was natural that the supervision of
persons engaged in the business of supplying steamship
tickets should be committed by the statute to the Com2
missioner of Banking.
Although the purchase made is of an ocean steamship
ticket, the transaction regulated is wholly intrastate-as
much so as if the purchase were of local real estate or of
local theatre tickets. There is no purpose on the part of
Laws Mich. Ann. Supp. 1922, § 7164(1)-7164(9); Ohio Gen. Code,
§§ 710-183-710-187.
In 1910 there were 410 of such banking businesses in Pennsylvania.
Report of Immigration Commission, vol. 37, p. 209. The Commission
found, also, that of the businesses (in Pennsylvania and elsewhere)
examined by it, "94 per cent. of the concerns engaged in the business
of selling steamship tickets were at the same time engaged in the
business of immigrant banking. This shows that the relation between
the two is so close as to warrant the classification of them as interdependent. . . . Having made the start, it is natural that he should
continue to leave with the agent for safe-keeping his weekly or
monthly surplus, so that he may accumulate a sufficient amount for
another remittance or for the purpose of buying a steamship ticket to
bring his family to this country or for his own return to Europe."
Ibid., p. 212.

DI SANTO v. PENNSYLVANIA.
34

Brandeis and Holmes, J. J., dissenting.

the State to regulate foreign commerce. The statute is
not an obstruction to foreign commerce. It does not discriminate against foreign commerce. It places no direct
burden upon such commerce. It does not affect the commerce except indirectly. Congress could, of course, deal
with the subject, because it is connected with foreign
commerce. But it has not done so. Nor has it legislated
on any allied subject. Thus, there can be no contention
that Congress has occupied the field. And obviously, also,
this is not a case in which the silence of Congress can be
interpreted as a prohibition of state action-as a declaration that in the sale of ocean steamship tickets fraud may
be practiced without let or hindrance. If Pennsylvania
must submit to seeing its citizens defrauded, it is not
because Congress has so willed, but because the Constitution so commands. I cannot believe that it does.
Unlike the ordinance considered in Texas Transport Co.
v. New Orleans,264 U. S. 150, this statute is not a revenue
measure. The license fee is small. The whole of the proceeds is required to defray the expense of supervising the
business. Unlike the measure considered in Real Silk
Mills v. Portland,268 U. S. 325, 336, this statute is not
an instrument of discrimination against interstate or foreign commerce. Unlike that considered in Shafer v.
Farmers Grain Co., 268 U. S. 189, 199, it does not affect
the price of articles moving in interstate commerce. The
licensing and supervision of dealers in steamship tickets
is in essence an inspection law. Compare Turner v. Maryland, 107 U. S. 38.
The fact that the sale of the ticket is made as a part of
a transaction in foreign or interstate commerce does not
preclude application of state inspection laws, where, as
here Congress has not entered the field, and the state
regulation neither obstructs, discriminates against, or directly burdens the commerce. Patapsco Guano Co. v.
Board of Agriculture, 171 U. S. 345; Diamond Glue Co. v.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Brandeis and Holmes, J. J., dissenting.

273 U. S.

United States Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611; McLean v. Denver
& Rio Grande R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38, 54; Red "C" Oil
Mfg. Co. v. Board of Agriculture, 222 U. S. 380; Savage v.
Jones, 225 U. S. 501.; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 62;
Merchants Exchange v. Missouri, 248 U. S. 365; Pure Oil
Co. v. Minnesota, 248 U. S. 158; Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248
U. S. 297; Weigle v. Curtice Brothers Co., 248' U. S. 285;
Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, 240 U. S. 510; Corn
Products Refining Co. v. Eddy, 249 U. S. 427; Crescent
Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 257 U. S. 129. To require that the
dealer in tickets be licensed in order to guard against
fraud in the local sale of tickets certainly affects interstate
or foreign commerce less directly than to provide a test
of the locomotive engineer's skill, Smith v. Alabama, 124
U. S. 465; or eyesight, Nashville, Chattanooga,& St. Louis
Ry. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; or requiring that passenger
cars be heated and guard posts placed on bridges, N. Y.,
N. H., & H. R. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628; or
requiring every railway to cause three of its regular
passenger trains to stop each way daily at every village
containing over three thousand inhabitants, Lake Shore
& M3ichigan Southern R..R. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285; or
to require trains to limit within a city their speed to six
miles an hour, Erb v. Morasch, 177 U. S. 584; or to establish a standard for the locomotive headlight, Atlantic
Coast Line R. R. v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280; or to prescribe
"full crews," Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. v.
Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453; St. Louis, Iron Mountain and
Southern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 240 U. S. 518; or to compel
the providing of separate coaches for whites and colored
persons, South Covington, etc., Ry. v. Kentucky, 252
U. S. 399; or to compel a railroad to eliminate grade
crossings, although the expense involved may imperil its
solvency, Erie R. R. Co. v. Public Utility Commissioners,
254 U. S. 394, 409-412-state requirements sustained
by this Court. See also Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S.
128, 138.

DI SANTO v. PENNSYLVANIA.
34

Brandeis and Holmes, J. J., dissenting.

It is said that McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104,
requires that the Pennsylvania statute be held void. McCall was an employee of the railroad, not an independent
solicitor or dealer. Di Santo, as the state court found the
facts, was not an employee of a steamship company, nor
an agent authorized to act for one; and it ruled, as a
matter of statutory construction, that, if he had been such,
he would not have been required by the statute to be
licensed. It found him to be an independent dealer or
contractor, "a free lance" authorized by the several
steamship companies "to sell tickets or orders entitling
the persons therein named to passage upon steamers," but
"with no obligation to any particular company," except
to remit the net amount payable by him to the company
for a ticket or order sold. Moreover, the fee imposed by
the San Francisco ordinance was an occupation tax, not
an inspection fee. Here, the Pennsylvania court found
that the statute did not produce any revenue.
On the facts, the McCall case is distinguishable from
that a bar. If, because of its reasoning, it is thought not
to be distinguishable, it should be disregarded. The doctrine of stare decisis presents no obstacle. Disregard of
the McCall case would not involve unsettlement of any
constitutional principle or of any rule of law, properly so
called. It would involve merely refusal to repeat an error
once made in applying a rule of law-an error which has
already proved misleading as a precedent. While the
question whether a particular statute has the effect of
burdening interstate or foreign commerce directly presents always a question of law, the determination upon
which the validity or invalidity of the statute depends,
is largely or wholly one of fact. The rule of law which
governs the McCall case and the one at bar is the same.
It is that a State may not obstruct, discriminate against,
or directly burden interstate or foreign commerce. The
question at bar is whether, as applied to existing facts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Brandeis and Holmes, J. J., dissenting.

273 U. S.

this particular statute is a direct burden. The decision
as to state regulations of this character, depends often, as
was said in Southern Railway v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 533,
"upon their effect upon interstate commerce." In that
case, the Georgia blow post law was held constitutional,
as not being a direct burden. In Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
Blackwell, 244 U. S. 310, the same statute was held, on
other facts, to be void, because shown to be a direct burden. Each case required the decision of the question of
law. Each involved merely an appreciation of the facts.
Neither involved the declaration of a rule of law.
It is usually more important that a rule of law be
settled, than that it be settled right. Even where the
error in declaring the rule is a matter of serious concern.
it is ordinarily better to seek correction by legislation.
Often this is true although the question is a constitutional
one. The human experience embodied in the doctrine of
stare decisis teaches us, also, that often it is better to
follow a precedent, although it does not involve the declaration of a rule. This is usually true so far as concerns
a particular statute whether the error was made ii? construing it or in passing upon its validity. But the doctrine
of stare decisis does not command that we err again when
we have occasion to pass upon a different statute. In the
search for truth through the slow process of inclusion and
exclusion, involving trial and error, it behooves us to
reject, as guides, the decisions upon such questions which
prove to have been mistaken. This course seems to me
imperative when, as here, the decision to be made involves
the delicate adjustment of conflicting claims of the Federal Government and the States to regulate commerce.'
3

See " The Compact Clause of the Constitution.-A Study in Interstate Adjustments," by Felix Frankfurter and James M. Landis, 34
Yale Law Journal 685, 720-725, and cases there cited; "Judicial
Determination of Questions of Fact Affecting the Constitutional
Validity of Legislative Action," by Henry Wolf Bikl6, 38 Harvard
Law Review 6.

DI SANTO v. PENNSYLVANIA.
34

Stone, J., dissenting.

The many cases on the Commerce Clause in which this
Court has overruled or explained away its earlier decisions
show that the wisdom of this course has been heretofore
recognized.' In the case at bar, also, the logic of words
should yield to the logic of realities.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I agree with all that Ma. JUSTICE BRANDEIS has said,
but I would add a word with respect to one phase of the
matter which seems to me of some importance. We are
not here concerned with a, question of taxation to which
other considerations may apply, but with state regulation of what may be conceded to be an instrumentality
of foreign commerce. As this Court has many times decided, the purpose of the commerce clause was not to
preclude all state regulation of commerce crossing state
'See Pierce v. New Hampshire, 5 How. 504, 554, overruled by
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 118; Osborne v. Mobile, 16 Wall. 479,
overruled by Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, 647-648. See
State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284, qualified by
Philadelphia S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, 342; Peik v.
C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 94 U. S. 164, qualified by Wabash, St. L. &
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Pullman's Palace Car Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, qualified in Union Tank Line Co. v.
Wright, 249 U. S. 275; Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S.
217, qualified in Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co. v.
Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Texas Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466; Bowman
v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642; Askren v. Continental Oil Co.,
252 U. S. 444, and Standard Oil Co. v. Graves, 249 U. S. 389, all
qualified in Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506. Compare the
discussion of City of New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 101, in Passenger
Cases, 7 How. 283; that of Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District,
145 U. S. 1, in Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 296,
and in Texas Transport Co. v. New Orleans, 264 U. S. 150; that of
Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas, 204 IT. S. 403, in
Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern R. R. Co. v. Settle, 260 U. S. 166,
173; that of Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68, in
Alpha Cement Co. v. Massachusetts,268 U. S. 203.

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Stone, J., dissenting.

273 U. S.

lines, but to prevent discrimination and the erection of
barriers or obstacles to the free flow of commerce, interstate or foreign.
The recognition of the power of the states to regulate
commerce within certain limits is a recognition that there
are matters of local concern which may properly be subject to state regulation and which, because of their local
character, as well as their number and diversity, can never
be adequately dealt with by Congress. Such regulation,
so long as it does not impede the free flow of conunerce,
may properly be and for the most part has been left to
the states by the decisions of this Court.
In this case the traditional test of the limit of state
action by inquiring whether the interference with commerce is direct or indirect seems to me too mechanical,
too uncertain in its application, and too remote from actualities, to be of value. In thus making use of the expressions, "direct" and "indirect interference" with commerce, we are doing little more than using labels to describe a result rather than any trustworthy formula by
which it is reached.
It is difficult to say that such permitted interferences
as those enumerated in MR. JusTicE BRANDEIS' opinion
are less direct than the interference prohibited here. But
it seems clear that those interferences not deemed forbidden are to be sustained, not because the effect on commerce is nominally indirect, but because a consideration
of all the facts and circumstances, such as the nature of
the regulation, its function, the character of the business
involved and the actual effect on the flow of commerce,
lead to the conclusion that the regulation concerns interests peculiarly local and does not infringe the national
interest in maintaining the freedom of commerce across
state lines.
I am not persuaded that the regulation here is more
than local in character or that it interposes any barrier

INTERSTATE BUSSES v. HOLYOKE RY.
34

45

Statement of the Case.

to commerce. Until Congress undertakes the protection
of local communities from the dishonesty of the sellers of
steamship tickets, it would seem that there is no adequate
ground for holding that the regulation here involved is a
prohibited interference with commerce.
MIR. JUSTICE HOLMES and MR.
cur in this opinion.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS con-

INTERSTATE BUSSES CORPORATION v. HOLYOKE STREET RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 343.

Argued October 27, 28, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. The Massachusetts law requiring a license and a certificate of public convenience and necessity for such operation of motor vehicles
on public highways for intrastate carriage of passengers for hire as
affords a means of transportation similar to that afforded by a
railway company, is not shown in this case to work a direct interference with or burden upon the interstate business of the plaintiff
bus company, which carries both interstate and intrastate passengers. P. 50.
2. The burden is upon the plaintiff bus company to prove that the
enforcement of the act would prejudice its interstate passenger
business. P. 51.
3. The act cannot be evaded by unnecessarily using the same vehicles
and employees for both classes of passengers. P. 51.
4. A State has power reasonably to regulate and control the use of
its public highways in the public interest, not directly burdening
or interfering with interstate commerce. P. 52.
5. The Massachusetts act is not arbitrary or unreasonable; and the
plaintiff, not haing applied for a license under it, had no standing
to attack its validity under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 52.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
the bill in a suit by the plaintiff bus company to enjoin

