OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 IT.S.

thereby diminishing the subjects upon which the state
power of taxation may operate. The averment to that
effect, however, affords no basis for relief, because, not
only is the state's right of taxation subordinate to that of
the general government, but the anticipated result is
purely speculative, and, at most, only remote and indirect.
Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 68-70.
If, as alleged, the supposed withdrawal of property will
diminish the revenues of the state, non constat that the
deficiency cannot readily be made up by an increased rate
of taxation. Plainly, there is no substance in the contention that the state has sustained, or is immediately in
danger of sustaining, any direct injury as the result of the
enforcement of the act in question. See In re Ayers, 123
U. S. 443, 496; Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447,488.
Nor can the suit be maintained by the state because of
any injury to its citizens. They are also citizens of the
United States and subject to its laws. In respect of their
relations with the federal government "it is the United
States, and not the State, which represents them as parens
patriae, when such representation becomes appropriate;
and to the former, and not to the latter, they must look
for such protective measures as flow from that status."
Massachusettsv. Mellon, supra,pp. 485-486.
It follows that leave to file the bill of complaint must
be denied.
Rule discharged and leave denied.
MYERS v. HURLEY MOTOR COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THEI DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 65. Argued December 9, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. The fact that a contract made in infancy was induced by the
infant's fraudulent misrepresentation of his age, does not estop him
from disaffirming the contract and maintaining his action to recover
money paid under it. Sims v. Everhardt, 102 U. S. 300. P. 22.

MYERS v. HURLEY MOTOR CO.
19

19

Argument for Myers.

2. But where the action is for money had and received, equitable
principles apply defensively, and by way of recoupment, to prevent
a recovery of that to which the plaintiff is not in equity and good
conscience entitled. P. 23.
3. The infant, representing himself as of age, bought and obtained
possession of an automobile, upon conditional sale, but paid only
part of the price. The vendor took back the car. In an action by
the vendee, who disaffirmed upon reaching his majority, the vendor
was equitably entitled to recoup from the amount which the vendee
had paid, the amount which the vendor was required to expend to
put the car in as good condition as it was when so sold and delivered. P. 27.

REsPoNsE to questions certified by the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia, on appeal from a judgment
recovered on a counterclaim by the Motor Company, in
an action by Myers to recover money and money's worth
paid in infancy on the purchase of an automobile.
Mr. George P. Lemm for Myers.
An estoppel is not applicable to infants. Sims v. Everhardt, 102 U. S. 300; Tobin v. Spann, 85 Ark. 556; Tucker
v. Moreland, 10 Pet. 58; Conrad v. Lane, 26 Minn., 389;
Burdett v. Williams, 30 Fed. 697; Price v. Jennings, 62
Ind. 111; Raymond v. General Motorcycle Sales Co., 230
Mass. 54.
In Sims v. Everhardt, supra, we find the established
rule to be that an infant, who avoids a purchase by him
under a contract of a conditional sale and returns the
article purchased, is not required to account to the seller
for wear, tear, and depreciation for the article while in his
hands. MacGreal v. Taylor, 167 U. S. 688; McCarthy
v. Henderson, 138 Mass. 310; Whitcomb v. Joslyn,
51 Vt. 79.
In the case under consideration, the specific consideration which passed to the infant plaintiff, namely, the
automobile, was returned to or taken possession of by the

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Hurley Motor Co.

273 U. S.

defendant. Plaintiff has done all the law requires of him
as a condition to the avoidance of his contract.
Mr. Henry C. Clark, with whom Messrs. Roger .1.
Whiteford and Walter B. Guy were on the brief, for the
Hurley Motor Co.
Infancy is an equitable shield which may be lost by
unconscionable conduct. Equity, through the doctrine of
parens patriae, undertook to relieve against the difficulties which resulted from undue limitation of the capacity
of an infant, This took the form of authorizing transactions through guardians, which disposed of the infant's
property, and also of upholding acts of the infant which
equity would have required him to perform. Infants are
not enveloped in absolute incapacity; they are not
exempted from all responsibility. The privilege of infancy
is not a privilege to heat civilly any more than to cheat
criminally. MacGreal v. Taylor, 167 U. S. 688; Fitts v.
Hall, 9 N. H. 441; Kilgore v. Jordan, 17 Tex. 341; Eckstein v. Frank, 1 Daly 334; Parker v. Hayes, 39 N. J. Eq.
469; Rice v. Boyer, 108 Ind. 472; Commander v. Brazil,
88 Miss. 668; La Rosa v. Nichols, 92 N. J. L. 375.
We are not dealing with an innocent infant, or one
who has been imposed upon, but with an infant admittedly guilty of positive fraud. Nothing is offered in mitigation of the fraud. The only response is his attempt
to hide behind his few months minority, a brazen attempt
to use the privilege afforded for his protection as a sword
of iniquity. The infant in Sims v. Everhardt, 102 U. S.
300, was compelled by the clear duress of her husband to
execute a deed. The innocence of the infant is conspicuous throughout the opinion. This Court not only recognized, but placed its approval upon the distinction
between an innocent infant and one guilty of positive
fraud, at the time it denied certiorari in Carmen v. Fox
Film Corp., 255 U. S. 569.

MYERS v. HURLEY MOTOR CO.
18

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The facts which give rise to the questions of law in
respect of which the instruction of this court is asked,
are set forth in the certificate as follows:
"Clarence H. Myers, plaintiff in error, on the 28th
day of April, 1923, then a minor of the age of 20 years,
represented to the defendant company that he was 24
years of age, and engaged in the hacking business in the
District of Columbia; whereupon he contracted with defendant for a Hudson touring car at the price of $650.00,
upon terms set out in a c 3nditional sales contract. Plaintiff turned in as cash parment a Ford touring car at the
price of $250.00, which was subsequently sold by defendant company for that price. Plaintiff subsequently made
payments on the contract to the amount of $156.12, making a total payment on the contract of $406.12.
"On October 3, 1923, plaintiff being in default in his
payments, defendant company repossessed itself of the
Hudson car, under the terms of its sale agreement. Plaintiff attained the age of 21 years on October 21, 1923, and,
on the 1st day of November following, disaffirmed his
contract and demanded the return of $406.12, the amount
paid upon the contract. Upon defendant's refusal to
comply with plaintiff's request, the present suit was
brought in the Municipal Court of the District of Columbia by plaintiff to recover $406.12, the amount paid
by him.
"Defendant company set up, as a counter claim, the
amount of $525.96, supported by a bill of particulars,
showing that this amount was required in the way of
repairs and expense to place the Hudson car in as good
condition as it was when sold to plaintiff. The Municipal Court gave judgment upon defendant's plea of set
off for the full amount of $525.96, from which the case
was brought to the Court of Appeals on writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

"The misrepresenation by plaintiff of his age, supported by evidence that he had the appearance of a man
of 24, at the time the contract was made, and the depreciation in the value of the Hudson car from hard and
abusive usage, are not denied by plaintiff, and may be
accepted for the purpose of this case as conceded facts.
Neither does it appear that any deception or misrepresentations were made by the defendant in order to induce
the making of the contract, nor that the contract was
in any respect an unfair one. Plaintiff rests his case
entirely upon his absolute right, on becoming of age, to
disaffirm his contract, and recover the amount which he
had paid thereon, regardless of any damage the defendant may have sustained, either from his misrepresentation as to his correct age, or from his abusive use of the
Hudson car which resulted in the depreciation above set
forth."
Two questions are certified:
1. Is the plaintiff, by reason of the misrepresentations
as to his correct age, estopped from maintaining an action
to recover the amount paid under the conditional sales
contract upon the purchase price of the Hudson car?
2. If the plaintiff is not so estopped, may defendant,
by way of affirmative defense against plaintiff's claim,
set off the amount paid for the repair of the damaged
Hudson car, or so much thereof as will equal plaintiff's
claim?
First. In Sims v. Everhardt, 102 U. S. 300, 313, which
was a suit in equity, this court said:
"Without spending time to look at the reason, the
authorities are all one way. An estoppel in pais is not
applicable to infants, and a fraudulent representation of
capacity cannot be an equivalent for actual capacity.
Brown v. McCune, 5 Sandf. (N. Y.) 224; Keen v. Coleman, 39 Pa. St. 299. A conveyance by an infant is an
assertion of his right to convey. A contemporaneous

MYERS v. HURLEY MOTOR CO.
18

Opinion of the Court.

declaration of his right or of his age adds nothing to what
is implied in his deed. An assertion of an estoppel
against him is but a claim that he has assented or contracted. But he can no more do that effectively than he
can make the contract alleged to be confirmed."
The statement that the authorities are all one way in
holding that an estoppel in pais is not-that is to say, is
never-applicable to infants, at least of doubtful accuracy when made, is clearly incorrect at the present time.
A review shows that many, perhaps the major part, of
the state decisions hold that in equity the rule is otherwise. See Bigelow on Estoppel (6th Ed.) 627; 1 WiIliston on Contracts, ยง 245. In any event, the most that
can be said is that the decisions upon that subject are
conflicting and to some degree in confusion. The doctrine of the Everhardt case, however, was followed in
MacGreal v. Taylor, 167 U. S. 688, 696, and has been
made the basis of decisions in several of the lower federal
courts, Bartlett v. Okla. Oil Co., 218 Fed. 380, 391; Alfrey
v. Colbert, 168 Fed. 231, 235; Sanger v. Hibbard, 104
Fed. 455, 457; and has become the established federal
rule. Likewise it has been accepted and followed by
many of the state courts. See, for example, Tobin v.
Spann, 85 Ark. 556, 559; Cobbey v. Buchanan, 48 Neb.
391, 394; Kirkham v. Wheeler-Osgood Co., 39 Wash.
415, 424; Alvey v. Reed, 115 Ind. 148, 149. In this state
of the matter, we are not disposed now to reexamine the
question in the light of the conflict of authority; but,
following the Everhardt case, we hold that the doctrine
of estoppel in pais cannot be invoked to defeat plaintiff's
action.
Second. While adhering to the determination in the
Everhard6 case, that the doctrine of estoppel in pais does
not apply to an infant, we are of the opinion that this
does not require us, under the facts of the present case,
to deny defendant the benefit of its affirmative defense.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

In the Everhardt case, there was a dismissal by the court
below on the ground that it did not appear that there
was a disaffirmance by the complainant within a reasonable time after she attained her majority. The bill
offered to do equity (p. 301), but this court, in reversing
the decree and remanding the cause, expressed no opinion
in respect of the equities by which a decree for coinplainant might be conditioned. The effect of an affirmative defense such as we have here was neither involved
nor considered. Whether an infant who fraudulently
misrepresents his age and thereby induces the making
of a contract can, when he brings a suit in equity in respect of the matter, be compelled to do equity, is a question not concluded by that decision. In MacGreal v.
Taylor, supra, after first calling attention to the fact
(p. 698) that the opinion in the Everhardt case did not
deal with the counter-equities, this court said (p. 700):
"A court of equity will look at the real transaction, and
will do justice to the adult if it can be done without
disregarding or impairing the principle that allows an
infant, upon arriving at majority, to disaffirm his contracts made during infancy."
Here the action brought by the quondam infant is one
for money had and received-the payments under the
disaffirmed contract having been either in money or in
property converted into money before the disaffirmance.
Such an action, though brought at law, is in its nature
a substitute for a suit in equity; and it is to be determined
by the application of equitable principles. In other
words, the rights of the parties are to be determined as
they would be upon a bill in equity. The defendant
may rely upon any defense which shows that the plaintiff, in equity and good conscience is not entitled to recover in whole or in part. Rathbone v. Stocking, 2 Barb.
135, 145-147; Barr v. Craig, 2 Dall. 151, 154; Wright v.
Butler, 6 Wend. 284, 290; Eddy v. Smith, 13 Wend. 48S.

MYERS v. HURLEY MOTOR CO.
18

Opinion of the Court.

490; Christie v. Durden, 205 Ala. 571, 572; Gifford v.
Wilcox, 81 Ind. App. 378, 381.
It has been held that where an infant after coming of
age seeks the aid of a court of equity to avoid a contract, under which he has received property, and restore
to hinm the possession of obligations with which he has
parted, he will be required, wholly irrespective of his own
good faith in the transaction, to do equity, which may
extend to compelling him to make full satisfaction for
the deterioration of the property due to his use or abuse
of it.
In Gray v. Lessington, 2 Bosw. 257, the plaintiff, alleging her infancy, brought suit to rescind a contract of
sale and to cancel a mortgage and unpaid notes. A decree
in her favor imposed the condition that she should restore
the property and account for the deterioration arising
from its use. The court, sustaining this on appeal, said
(p. 262):
"And when it becomes necessary for her to go into
a court of equity, to cancel her obligations, or regain the
pledge given for their performance, seeking equity, she
must do equity. Making full satisfaction for the deterioration of the property, arising from its use, is doing
no more. Presumptively, she has derived from the use
of the property a profit, or benefit, equivalent to such
deterioration. Whether that presumption is, under all
circumstances, conclusive, it is not necessary to say, since
there is nothing in this case to rebut the presumption.
The deterioration here, is found to have resulted from the
use which she has enjoyed; and if it resulted from an
abuse of the property, the plaintiff's equity is no greater."
The same rule is recognized in Hillyer v. Bennett, 3
Edw. Ch. 222, 225. In that case, after pointing out that
the acts and deeds of an infant are voidable at his election, that if sued at law or in equity he may plead his
infancy in bar, and that if he has agreed to sell and deliver

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

personal property he may disaffirm the contract and bring
trover to recover it back, the vice-chancellor said:
"But if, after he comes of age, he seeks to disaffirm
and avoid his contract in a court of equity and files his
bill there for the purpose of obtaining its aid, in restoring
to himself the possession of the property he has parted
with, a court of equity must deal with him as it would
with any other adult party and require him to do equity
before he shall have equity done unto him. He must restore what he received when he parted with the property
which he seeks to get back; especially, if it appears that
the other dealt with him in ignorance of the fact of his
nonage. This equitable and just principle is recognized
by Woodworth, J., 7 Cowen, 183, and is warranted by
several cases there cited."
See also, 1 Story's Equity (11th Ed.) ยง 240; Carmen
v. Fox Film Corporation, 269 Fed. 928, 931; Rice v.
Butler, 160 N. Y. 578; International Land Co. v. Marshall, 22 Okla. 693, 708.
How far the equitable maxim, that he who seeks equity
must do equity, applies generally in suits brought for
relief because of infancy, we need not inquire; nor do
we need here to go as far as the authorities just cited.
The maxim applies, at least, where there has been, as
there was here, actual fraud on the part of the infant.
When an infant of mature appearance, by false and fraudulent representations as to his age, has induced another
person to sell and deliver property to him, it is against
natural justice to permit the infant to recover money
paid for the property without first compelling him to
account for the injury which his deceit has inflicted upon
the other person.
Our conclusion that the affirmative defense is available
in this action does not rest upon the doctrine of estoppel,
though the result may be the same. It recognizes the

MYERS v. HURLEY MOTOR CO.
18

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff's right to repudiate his promise and sue for the
return of his payments, and his immunity from a plea
of estoppel in so doing. Its effect is not to enforce the
disaffirmed contract directly or indirectly, but to allow
him to invoke the aid of the court to enforce an equitable
remedy arising from -the disaffirmance, only upon condition that "seeking equity, he must do equity." And the
application of the maxim is not precluded because defendant's claim might not be enforceable in any other
manner. 1 Pomeroy's Equity, ยง 386; Sturgis v. Champneys, 5 Myl. & C. 97, 102; Farmers'Loan & Trust Co. v.
Denver, L. & G. R. Co., 126 Fed. 46, 51.
The question remains whether defendant should have
judgment for the amount by which its expenditures exceeded plaintiff's demand. We are not advised of any
statutory rule upon the subject applicable in the District
of Columbia; and the matter must be determined in accordance with general principles. The defense, in effect,
is that the plaintiff was guilty of tortious conduct to the
injury of the defendant in the transaction out of which
his own cause of action arose. In such case it is well
settled that the relief is by way of recoupment-that is,
that the amount of defendant's damage can be allowed
only in abatement or diminution of plaintiff's claimand that defendant cannot, at least in that action, recover
any excess. Winder v. Caldwell, 14 How. 434, 443;
Dushane v. Benedict, 120 U. S. 630, 642; Ward v. Fellers,
3 Mich. 281, 287-291; Waterman v. Clark et al., 76 Ill.
428, 430; Holcraft v. Mellott, 57 Ind. 539, 544.
It follows that the first question should be answered
in the negative and the second question in the affirmative,
with the qualification that the amount allowed defendant
shall not exceed the amount of plaintiff's claim.
It is so ordered.

