INGENOHL v. OLSEN & CO.
536

Syllabus.

cause it seems to us hard to imagine a more direct and
obvious infringement of the Fourteenth. That Amendment, while it applies to all, was passed, as we know, with

a special intent to protect the blacks from discrimination
against them. Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303. That Amendment "not only gave citizenship and the privileges of
citizenship to persons of color, but it denied to any State
th- power to withhold from them the equal protection of
the laws. . . . What is this but declaring that the law
in the States shall be the same for the black as for the
white: that all persons, whether colored or white, shall
stand equal before the laws of the States, and, in regard
to the colored race, for whose protection the amendment
was primarily designed, that no discrimination shall be
made against them by law because of their color?"
Quoted from the last case in Buchanan v. Warley, 245
U. S. 60, 77. See Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 374.
The statute of Texas in the teeth of the prohibitions referred to assumes to forbid negroes to take part in a primary election the importance of which we have indicated,
discr'minating against them by the distinction of color
alone. States may do a good deal of classifying that it is
difficult to believe rational, but there are limits, and it is
too clear for extended argument that color cannot be made
the basis of a statutory classification affecting the right
set up in this case
Judgment reversed.
INGENOHL v. OLSEN & COMPANY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.
No. 174.

Argued March 1, 1927.-Decided March 14, 1927.

1. A trade-mark, started elsewhere, has only such validity and protection in a foreign country as the foreign law accords it. P. 544.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

2. Section 311(2) of the Philippine Code of Civil Procedure, which
provides that a judgment "may be repelled by evidence of . .
clear mistake of law or fact," does not justify refusal to enforce a
judgment for costs rendered by the Supreme Court of Hongkong
in a trade-mark suit, upon the ground that that court mistakenly
denied effect in Hongkong to a sale of the tradc-mark with the
business of the plaintiff in the Philippine Islands, made by the
Alien Property Custodian to the defendant. P. 544.
3. The Alien Property Custodian, under the Trading with the Enemy
Act, had no power to transfer trade-mark rights in a foreign country contrary to the foreign law. P. 544.
4. This Court has jurisdiction by certiorari to review a case from
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands in which the validity
of a section of the Philippine Code of Civil Procedure and a construction of the Trading with the Enemy Act are drawn in question. P. 545.
47 P. I. 189, reversed.

CERTIoRARI (269 U. S. 542) to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands which reversed
a judgment recovered by the plaintiff, Ingenohl, in the
Court of First Instance. The action was based on a judgment for costs, awarded to the plaintiff by the Supreme
Court of Hongkong, in a suit to restrain the defendant,
Walter E. Olsen & Company Inc., from infringing the
plaintiff's trade-mark.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom Messrs. 0. R. McGuire
and Joseph C. Meyerstein were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. FredericR. Coudert, Jr., with whom Messrs. Frederic R. Coudert and Allison D. Gibbs were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JuSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit to recover the costs adjudged to the plaintiff, the petitioner here, in a former suit that was brought
by him against the defendant in the British Colony of
Hongkong and was determined in his favor by the Su-

INGENOHL v. OLSEN & CO.
541

Opinion of the Court.

preme Court there. The judgment declared the plaintiff
to be the owner of certain trade-marks and trade names
and entitled to the exclusive use of them in connection
with his business as a cigar manufacturer. It restrained
the defendants from selling cigars under these trademarks and awarded the costs now sued for. The Court
of First Instance of Manila gave judgment for the plaintiff. On appeal the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands reversed this decision on the ground that by
ยง 311(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure a judgment
against a person "may be repelled by evidence of a want
of jurisdiction, want of notice to the party, collusion,
fraud or clear mistake of law or fact," and that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Hongkong showed such
a clear mistake.
The supposed mistake consisted in denying effect in
Hongkong to a sale of business and trade-marks by the
Alien Property Custodian to the defendant, the circumstances and nature of which may be stated in few words
so far as they concern the present case. The plaintiff
Ingenohl had built up a great business as a cigar manufacturer and exporter having his factory at Manila. In
1908 he established a factory at Hongkong and thereafter
goods from both factories were sold under the same trademarks, the outside box or package of the longkong goods
having a label indicating that they came from there. The
trade-marks were registered in Hongkong and the cigars
covered by them had acquired a reputation. In 1918
the Alien Property Custodian seized and sold all the property "wheresoever situate in the Philippine Islands
. . . including the business as going concern, and the
good will, trade names and trade-marks thereof, of Syndicat Oriente," being the above mentioned business of
the plaintiff in the Philippines. The Supreme Court of
the Philippines held that it was plain error in the Supreme
Court of the British Colony to hold that this sale did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

carry the exclusive right to use the trade-marks in the
latter place.

A trade-mark started elsewhere would depend for its
protection in Hongkong upon the law prevailing in Hongkong and would confer no rights except by the consent

of that law. Hanover Star Milling Co. v. Metcalf, 240
U. S. 403. United Drug Co. v. Theodore Rectanus Co.,
248 U. S. 90. When, then, the judge who, in the absence
of an appeal to the Privy Council, is the final exponent
of that law, authoritatively declares that the assignment
by the Custodian of the assets of the Manila firm cannot
and will not be allowed to affect the rights of the party
concerned in Hongkong, we do not see how it is possible
for a foreign Court to pronounce his decision wrong. It
will be acted on and settles the rights of the parties in
Hongkong; and in view of that fact it seems somewhat
paradoxical to say that it is not the law. If the Alien
Property Custodian purported to convey rights in English
territory valid as against those whom the English law
protects he exceeded the powers that were or could be
given to him by the United States.
It is not necessary to consider whether the section of
the Code of Civil Procedure relied upon was within the
power of the Philippine Commission to pass. In any
event as interpreted it involved delicate considerations of
international relations and therefore we should not hold
ourselves bound to that deference that we show to the
judgment of the local Court upon matters of only local
concern. We are of opinion that whatever scope may be
given to the section it is far from warranting the refusal
to enforce this English judgment for costs, obtained after
a fair trial before a court having jurisdiction of the parties,
when the judgment is unquestionably valid and in other
respects will be enforced. Of course a foreign state might
accept the Custodian's transfer as good within its jurisdiction, if there were no opposing local interest or right,

SHUKERT v. ALLEN.
541

Statement of the Case.

and that may be the fact for China outside of Hongkong
as seems to have been held in another case not yet finally
disposed of, but no principle requires the transfer to be
given effect outside of the United States and when as
here it has been decided to have been ineffectual it is
unnecessary to inquire whether in the other event the
Alien Property Custodian was authorized by the statute
to use or did use in fact words purporting to have that
effect, or what the effect, if any, would be.
Some question was made of the jurisdiction of this
Court. The jurisdiction was asserted, at least provisionally, when the writ of certiorari was granted. There are
few cases in which it is more important to maintain it,
and we confirm it now. The validity of the section of
the Code of Civil Procedure is drawn in question, and also
the construction of the Trading with the Enemy Act
which is treated as purporting to authorize what in our
opinion it could not authorize if it tried.
Judgment reversed.

SHUKERT

ET AL.,

EXECUTRICES, v. ALLEN,

COLLECTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 193. Argued March 4, 7, 1927.--Decided March 21, 1927.
A conveyance of securities made before the testator's death and not
in contemplation of it, in trust to accumulate the income until a
distant date specified, and then to divide the fund amcng his children, designated by name as the beneficiaries, vested the interests
of his children when it was executed and was not "intended to
take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after his death," within
the meaning of ยง 402(c), Revenue Act of 1918. P. 547.
6 F. (2d) 551, reversed.
CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 543) to a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals, which affirmed a judgment of the Dis42847o-27-5

