KELLEY v. OREGON.
5&3

Opinion of the Court.

of jury trial entitling the defendant, especially in a criminal case, to be present from the time the jury is impaneled until its discharge after rendering the verdict.
We reverse the judgment without reference to the other
causes of error assigned.
Reversed.
KELLEY v. OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.

No. 827. Argued March 9, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.
1. Contentions that a defendant, tried for murder, was deprived of
rights under the Federal Constitution (due process of law,) by a
charge of the state court concerning self-defense and by being kept
in custody in and out of the court room during the trial, are
frivolous. P. 590.
2. The proposition that, under the Fourteenth Amendment, one who
has committed a murder while serving a term of imprisonment in
a state penitentiary has a vested right to serve out his term before
he can be executed for the murder, is likewise frivolous. P. 591.
Writ of error to 118 Ore. 397, dismissed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon
sustaining a death sentence for murder. In one aspect
of the case the writ of error is treated as an application
for certiorari; which is denied.

Mr. Will R. King for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. John H. Carson, with whom Mr. Willis S. Moore
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTCE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Ellsworth Kelley, plaintiff in error, James Willos and
Tom Murray were jointly indicted by the grand jury of
Marion County, Oregon, for the crime of murder in the

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

first degree, under the provisions of ยง 1893, Oregon Laws,
as follows:
"If any person shall purposely, and of deliberate and
premeditated malice, or in the commission or attempt to
commit any rape, arson, robbery, or burglary, kill another,
such person shall be deemed guilty of murder in the first
degree."
At the time of the commission of the crime set forth in
the indictment, Kelley and the two others accused with
him were prisoners in the Oregon State Penitentiary at
Salem, Oregon, and the crime was committed by them in
their escape from that institution. John Sweeney, named
in the indictment, was a guard at the institution and was
slain in his attempt to prevent the escape.
The plaintiff in error was arraigned upon the indictment in the manner prescribed by the laws of Oregon, and
upon such arraignment he entered a plea of not guilty to
the indictment. He and Willos were tried together. The
cause came on regularly for trial. The jury returned into
court a verdict of guilty as charged in the indictment,
without recommendation. On October 30, 1925, plaintiff
in error was sentenced to pay the penalty of death as by
the law provided. Judgment was entered on the same
day. Appeal was taken by the plaintiff in error to the
Supreme Court, which affirmed the judgment of the trial
court (State v. Kelley, 118 Ore. 397), and denied two petitions for rehearing. Thereupon the case came here upon
writ of error allowed by the Chief Justice of the State
Supreme Court.
. An examination of the record satisfies us that there
is
the
errors
case,
and
that
really no federal question in the
assigned purporting to raise questions under the Constitution of the United States are frivolous. An example of
these may be given in the assignment of error that the
rights of the defendant under the Federal Constitution
were invaded by the charge of the court on the question

KELLEY v. OREGON.
589

Opinion of the Court.

of self-defense. It is difficult to see how, in any aspect of
it, such a question could involve issues under the Federal
Constitution, and certainly they do not here.
Another assignment of error is to the fact that the
plaintiff in error was constantly in the custody of the
warden of the penitentiary, inside and outside of the court
room, during the trial. It is argued that he was entitled
to be free from any custody, in order that he might fully
make his defense, and that this deprived him of due
process. It is a new meaning attached to the requirement
of due process of law that one who is serving in the penitentiary for a felony and while there commits a capital
offense must, in order to secure a fair trial, be entirely
freed from custody. Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S. 254,
265; State v. Wilson, 38 Conn. 126. There is no showing
that he had not full opportunity to consult with counsel
or that he was in any way prevented from securing needed
witnesses. The assignment is wholly without merit.
Finally, it is objected that as the plaintiff in error was
under sentence to confinement in the penitentiary for
twenty years, which had not expired when he committed
this murder, he could not be executed until he had served
his full term.
Answering this objection, the Supreme Court of Oregon
said:
"As stated, the defendants are both convicts imprisoned
in the Oregon state penitentiary and it seems from the
testimony that they had escaped from prison in other
jurisdictions. The defendants claim that the sentence of
death imposed upon them by the judgment of the court
is forbidden by Section 1576, Or. L., reading thus:
"' If the defendant is convicted of two or more crimes,
before judgment on either, the judgment must be that
the imprisonment upon any one may commence at the
expiration of the imprisonment upon any other of such
crimes; and if the defendant be in imprisonment upon a

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 IT. S.

previous judgment on a conviction for a crime, the judgment must be that the imprisonment must commence at
the expiration of the term limited by such previous
judgment.'
"Their theory seems to be that owing to the fact of
each of them being then under sentence to imprisonment
for other offenses, the trial court had no jurisdiction to
punish them for a crime committed while the pending imprisonment was in force. It will be noted that the section just quoted refers only to imprisonment and not to
the penalty of death or fine. The section does not purport to exempt a defendant from trial and judgment for
the commission of any crime during his confinement in
the penitentiary. It would be shocking to all sense of
justice and public security to say that a criminal confined
in the penitentiary as punishment for his misdeeds could
be licensed to commit other crimes with immunity; yet,
that is the conclusion to which the argument of the defendants' counsel will lead. If the jury had found such a
verdict as would authorize their imprisonment, the section
quoted would be the authority for the court to declare that
the latest imprisonment should begin at the expiration of
the term then being served by the defendants. The punishment of death is an entirely distinctive thing and is not
included in the provisions of this section."
It is contended that this construction of the statute, in
permitting one who has committed a murder while a convict in the penitentiary to be executed before his term has
expired, deprives him of a, right secured by the Fourteenth
Amendment, in that due process of law secures to him as
a privilege the serving out of his sentence before he shall
be executed. It is doubtful whether this exception and
assignment can be said to be directed to a ruling of the
Supreme Court of Oregon such as to draw in question the
validity of a statute of Oregon on the ground of its repugnancy to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the

FORD v. UNITED STATES.
589

Syllabus.

United States and sustain it, as required in ยง 237a of the
Judicial Code, as amended, c. 229, 43 Stat. 936, 937, permitting a writ of error. But assuming that it does, or, if
not, treating the writ of error as an application for certiorari, there is not the slightest ground for sustaining the
assignment.
A prisoner may certainly be tried, convicted and sentenced for another crime committed either prior to or
during his imprisonment, and may suffer capital punishment and be executed during the term. The penitentiary
is no sanctuary, and life in it does not confer immunity
from capital punishment provided by law. He has no
vested constitutional right to serve out his unexpired sentence. Chapman v. Scott, 10 Fed. (2d) 690, affirming the
same case, 10 Fed. (2d) 156; Ponzi v. Fessenden, 258 U. S.
254; Rigor v. State, 101 Md. 465; State v. Wilson, 38
Conn. 126; Thomas v. People, 67 N. Y. 218, 225; Peri v.
People, 65 Ill. 17; Commonwealth v. Ramunno, 219 Pa.
St. 204; Kennedy v. Howard, 74 Ind. 87; Singleton v.
State, 71 Miss. 782; Huffaker v. Commonwealth, 124 Ky.
115; Clifford v. Dryden, 31 Wash. 545; People v. Flynn,
7 Utah 378; Ex parte Ryan, 10 Nev. 261; State v. Keefe,
17 Wyo. 227, 252; Re Wetton, 1 Crompt. & J. 459; Regina
v. Day, 3 F. & F. 526.
The writ of error is dismissed and
the certiorariis denied.
FORD ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 312. Argued October 26, 27, 1926.--Decided April 11, 1927.
1. In an indictment charging conspiracy to commit offenses against
laws of the United States, an allegation that it was also to violate
a treaty (prescribing no offense) may be rejected as surplusage.

P. 602.
428476-21-38

