INTERSTATE BUSSES v. HOLYOKE RY.
34

45

Statement of the Case.

to commerce. Until Congress undertakes the protection
of local communities from the dishonesty of the sellers of
steamship tickets, it would seem that there is no adequate
ground for holding that the regulation here involved is a
prohibited interference with commerce.
MIR. JUSTICE HOLMES and MR.
cur in this opinion.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS con-

INTERSTATE BUSSES CORPORATION v. HOLYOKE STREET RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 343.

Argued October 27, 28, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. The Massachusetts law requiring a license and a certificate of public convenience and necessity for such operation of motor vehicles
on public highways for intrastate carriage of passengers for hire as
affords a means of transportation similar to that afforded by a
railway company, is not shown in this case to work a direct interference with or burden upon the interstate business of the plaintiff
bus company, which carries both interstate and intrastate passengers. P. 50.
2. The burden is upon the plaintiff bus company to prove that the
enforcement of the act would prejudice its interstate passenger
business. P. 51.
3. The act cannot be evaded by unnecessarily using the same vehicles
and employees for both classes of passengers. P. 51.
4. A State has power reasonably to regulate and control the use of
its public highways in the public interest, not directly burdening
or interfering with interstate commerce. P. 52.
5. The Massachusetts act is not arbitrary or unreasonable; and the
plaintiff, not haing applied for a license under it, had no standing
to attack its validity under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 52.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
the bill in a suit by the plaintiff bus company to enjoin

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellant.

273 U. S.

the defendants-a street railway company, some of its
officers, and various public prosecuting officials of Massachusetts-from taking steps to enforce a Massachusetts
statute regulating common carriers of passengers by motor
vehicle.
Mr. Edward H. Kelly for the appellant.
Appellant is engaged in interstate commerce in the
transportation of passengers between Hartford, Connecticut, and Greenfield, Massachusetts. Persons traveling
on appellant's vehicles from Connecticut cannot be carried by motor bus north of Springfield unless appellant
transports them, because local operation is prohibited
without obtaining the licenses, permits and certificates
prescribed by Chapter 159, Section 45, General Laws of
Massachusetts, as amended by Chapter 280 of the Laws
of 1925. Appellant has undertaken to transport its interstate passengers to destination by the mode of transportation they have chosen in Connecticut, but can only do
it at a loss and in partly empty vehicles, unless it is permitted to accommodate on the same vehicles such local
traffic as is offered. Appellant not only is deprived of the
revenue earned in carrying its interstate travelers north
of Springfield, but travelers from Connecticut points
wishing to go north of Springfield, will not patronize
appellant's busses in Connecticut owing to inconvenience
of changing to some other mode of travel in Springfield
and vice versa; so that the enforcement of this law necessarily imposes on plaintiff a large loss of revenue from
interstate traffic in addition to that which might be received from local traffic. If the requirements of Chapter
159 are held to apply to the business done by appellant,
then it must be conceded that it restricts, burdens and
impedes interstate commerce. Pullman Co. v. Kansas,
216 U. S. 56; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216
U. S. 1.

INTERSTATE BUSSES v. HOLYOKE RY.
45

47

Argument for Appellant.

Under the rule of the Kansas cases, Massachusetts could
not pass a law imposing a tax on appellant's entire capital
stock or otherwise burdening its interstate business as a
condition of permitting it to do a local business. Can
it then prohibit it entirely from doing such business, or
can it prohibit such local business on interstate vehicles,
except on condition that appellant obtain a license from
every city and town through which its vehicles pass on
their interstate journey? Has it power to prohibit local
business entirely and yet remain powerless to annex to
its permission to do local business an unconstitutional
condition? Would it be any more a burden on interstate
commerce to grant permission to do a local business only
on condition of paying an unconstitutional tax or submitting to confiscatory rates for such business than to prohibit local business entirely? Is the latter less of a burden than the former? Would a law or regulation of
Massachusetts be held constitutional, which prohibited
a railroad from carrying passengers upon its interstate trains between Springfield and Boston, without first
obtaining a license from each town through which the
train passed, and a certificate from the State Public Utilities Commission? Or could it entirely forbid the railroad
from carrying passengers between points within the State
upon interstate trains?
The error of Barrows v. Farnum State Lines, 254 Mass.
240, and related cases is in treating this regulation as a
general police regulation. Hemdon v. Chicago, 218
U. S. 157.
In giving consideration to the respective spheres of
state and federal control of commerce no analogy can be
drawn from their respective powers in the matter of levying taxes. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1.
The District Court erred in holding that the business
carried on by this plaintiff came within the purview of
Chapter 159, as amended.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

That Act, if held applicable, is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment in that it provides no appeal from an
arbitrary and unreasonable exercise of power, and in that
it permits suits and prosecutions so numerous, and the
imposition of so many different fines and penalties, as to
compel submission to the arbitrary exercise.
As a police regulation applicable to interstate commerce,
Chapter 159 must be held to be unreasonable.
Mr. David H. Keedy, with whom Mr. William H.
Brooks was on the brief, for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit was brought by appellant against the Holyoke Street Railway Company, its president and general
manager, police and prosecuting officers of a number of
cities and towns, the chief of the state police, and the
district attorneys of the Western and Northern Districts
of Massachusetts. Its purpose is to restrain the enforcement of a state statute relating to common carriers of
passengers by motor vehicles as in conflict with the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States
and with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The case was heard before a, court of three judges
(§ 266, Judicial Code) on an agreed statement of facts;
and a final decree dismissing the complaint was entered.
Sections 45, 48A and 49 of c. 159, General Laws, as
amended by c. 280, Acts of 1925, contain the provisions
attacked: No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a public way in any city or town for the carriage of passengers for hire so as to afford a means of transportation
similar to that afforded by a railway company by indiscriminately receiving and discharging passengers along
the route on which the vehicle is operated, or as a business
between fixed and regular termini, without first obtaining
a license. The licensing authority in a city is its council,

INTERSTATE BUSSES v. HOLYOKE RY.
45

49

Opinion of the Court.

in a town is its selectmen; and, as to public ways under its
control, is the metropolitan district commission. No person shall operate a motor vehicle under such license unless he has also obtained from the Department of Public
Utilities a certificate that public convenience and necessity require such operation. Anyone operating under a
license from local authority and a certificate from the
department is declared to be a common carrier and subject to regulation as such. Violations of §§ 45-48 or of
any order, rule or regulation made under them are punishable by fine or imprisonment or both. And the Act gives
to the Supreme Judicial and Superior Courts jurisdiction
in equity to restrain any violation upon petition of the
department, any licensing authority, ten citizens of a. city
or town affected by the violation, or any interested party.
Neither license nor certificate is required in respect of
such carriage as may be exclusively interstate.
The material facts stipulated are: For many years,
the appellee Holyoke Street Railway Company has been
a common carrier of passengers by street railway in Massachusetts through Holyoke, South Hadley, Granby, Amherst and into Sunderland. Appellant is engaged in the
business of transporting passengers for hire by motor
vehicle, and operates busses between Hartford, Connecticut, and Greenfield, Massachusetts. It has operated its
busses between Hartford and Springfield since December
1, 1924, and north of Springfield to Greenfield since about
December 15, 1925. Its route in Massachusetts passes
through Springfield, West Springfield, Holyoke, Granby,
Amherst, Sunderland, Deerfield and Greenfield. With
certain exceptions not here material, all its busses run
the whole distance between Hartford and Greenfield. It
transports persons from one State into the other, and
also those whose journeys begin and end in Massachusetts. Both classes of passengers, intrastate and inter42847°-27---4

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 UI. S.

state, are carried in the same vehicles. Intrastate passengers constitute a very substantial part of the whole
number carried in Massachusetts. Appellant maintains
an office and garage at Springfield and advertises its route
and rates. The busses are operated between fixed termini
in Massachusetts. They operate regularly on public
ways parallel to and alongside the tracks of the street
railway company and afford means of transportation similar to those furnished by that company. They stop
regularly and also on signal to receive and discharge
passengers. The operation of the busses in competition
with the street railway has resulted in substantial loss to
the latter. Appellant has not obtained a license from
any of the cities or towns served by the street railway
company. And that company, its president and counsel
have caused plaintiff's employees to be arrested and prosecuted and intend to continue to prosecute them for operating without obtaining the licenses and certificate required by the statute.
The statutory provisions in question have been sustained by the highest court of Massachusetts. New
York, N. H. & H. Railroad v. Deister, 253 Mass. 178;
Barrows v. Farnum'sStage Lines, 254 Mass. 240; Boston
& M. R. R. v. Cate, 254 Mass. 248; Boston & M. R. R. v.
Hart, 254 Mass. 253; Commonwealth v. Potter, 254 Mass.
520. And these decisions were followed by the district
court in this case.
Appellant's principal contention is that the Act contravenes the commerce clause. If as applied it directly interferes with or burdens appellant's interstate commerce,
it cannot be sustained regardless of the purpose for which
it was passed. See Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268
U. S. 189, 199; Real Silk Mills v. Portland, 268 U. S.
325, 336; Colorado v. United States, 271 U. S. 153, 163;
Di Santo v. Pennsylvania, ante, p. 34. The Act existed
in some form before interstate transportation of pas-

INTERSTATE BUSSES v. HOLYOKE RY.
45

51

Opinion of the Court.

sengers for hire by motor vehicle was undertaken. Its
purpose is to regulate local and intrastate affairs. Barrows v. Farnum's Stage Lines, supra. No license from
local authorities or certificate of public convenience and
necessity is required in respect of transportation that is
exclusively interstate. Cf. Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U.
S. 307; Bush Co. v. Maloy, 267 U. S. 317. The burden
is upon appellant to show that enforcement of the Act
operates to prejudice interstate carriage of passengers.
The stipulated facts do not so indicate. The threatened
enforcement is to prevent appellant from carrying intrastate passengers without license over that part of its route
which is parallel to the street railway. Its right to use
the highways between Springfield and Hartford is not in
controversy. While it appears that in Massachusetts
both classes of passengers are carried in the same vehicles,
it is not shown what part of the total number are intrastate or interstate. The record contains no information
as to the number of persons, if any, travelling in interstate commerce on appellant's busses over the part of the
route competing with the street railway. It is not shown
that the two classes of business are so commingled that
the separation of one from the other is not reasonably
practicable or that appellant's interstate passengers may
not be carried efficiently and economically in busses used
exclusively for that purpose or that appellant's interstate
business is dependent in any degree upon the local business in question. Appellant may not evade the Act by
the mere linking of its intrastate transportation to its
interstate or by the unnecessary transportation of both
classes by means of the same instrumentalities and employees. The appellant relies on Western Union Tel. Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; and Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216
U. S. 56. But there the State was using its authority
as a means to accomplish a result beyond its constitutional power.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

There is no support for the contention that the enforcement of the Act deprives it of its property without due
process of law. Undoubtedly, the State has power in
the public interest reasonably to control and regulate the
use of its highways so long as it does not directly burden
or interfere with interstate commerce. Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 144; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S.
160; Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610. Cf. Opinion
of the Justices, 251 Mass. 594, 596. The terms of the
Act are not arbitrary or unreasonable.
Appellant has
not applied for and does not show that it is entitled to
have a license from the local authorities or a certificate
of public necessity and convenience from the department.
Plainly, it has no standing to attack the validity of
the statute as a violation of the due process clause.
Decree affirmed.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. PACIFIC
STATES PAPER TRADE ASSOCIATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 71. Argued December 8, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. Where the facts stipulated before the Federal Trade Commission
showed that wholesale dealers dominating the trade in a certain
commodity in several States were members of local and general
trade associations; that uniform prices in intrastate sales were fixed
and diligently enforced by the local associations, and in the case of
one of them, were, by understanding among its members, to be
applied to sales made outside of the State; that each local association applied the local prices to sales made locally but filled by direct
shipment from outside mills; and that the salesmen of each, in
making sales beyond its State, habitually quoted prices from the
same lists which were controlling locally-the Commission was justified in inferring that such use of the lists in sales over the state
line lessened competition and fixed prices in interstate commerce,

