284

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

that .the carrier has disallowed the claim or any part
or parts thereof specified in the notice."
The bills of lading issued by petitioner undertook to
restrict the institution of suits for loss to two years and
one day after delivery of the property. This restriction
does not accord with the Transportation Act which declared unlawful any limitation shorter than two years
from the time notice is given of the disallowance of the
claim, and is therefore ineffective. See Chicago & N. W.
Ry.v. Brewsher, 6 Fed. (2d) 947. But neither the abovequoted provision from the Cummins Amendment nor the
one from the Transportation Act was intended to operate
as a statute of limitation. They restricted the freedom
of carriers to fix the period within which suit could be
brought-prohibited contracts for any shorter period than
the one specified.
Here, although the rights of the parties depended upon
instruments the meaning and effect of which must be determined according to rules approved by the federal courts,
there was no federal statute of limitations and the local
one applied. Campbell v. Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610, 613,
et seq.; ChattanoogaFoundry v. Atlanta, 203 U. S. 390,
397; Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. R., 236 U. S.
412, 423.
The judgment of the Court of Appeal must be reversed, and the cause will be remanded there for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
FARRINGTON, GOVERNOR OF HAWAII, ET AL. V.
TOKUSHIGE ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 465. Argued January 21, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
1. Acts of the Legislature of Hawaii "relating to foreign language
schools and the teachers thereof," and regulations adopted there-

FARRINGTON v. TOKUSHIGE.
284

285 -

Argument for Petitioners.

under by the Department of Public Instruction, taken as a whole
appear to infringe rights, under the Fifth Amendment, of owners
of private Japanese schools, and the parents of children attending
them; and in granting an interlocutory injunction against enforcement of the Acts and regulations the United States District Court
of Hawaii did not abuse its discretion. P. 298.
2. Upon the present record and argument, the Court cannot undertake to consider the constitutional validity of the provisions separately. P. 298.
3. The due process clause of the Fifth Amendment affords the same
protection to fundamental rights of private school owners, parents
and children against invasion by the Federal Government and its
agencies (such as a territorial legislature) as it has been held the
Fourteenth Amendment affords against action by a State. P. 299.
11 F. (2d) 710, affirmed.

CERTIORARI (post, p. 677) to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed an interlocutory decree
of the United States District Court of Hawaii enjoining
the Governor, Attorney General and Superintendent of
Public Instruction of the Territory from enforcing the
provisions of the Hawaiian Foreign Language School Law,
and regulations. The plaintiffs were members of numerous voluntary associations conducting foreign language
schools for instruction of Japanese children.
Mr. William B. Lymer, Attorney General of the Territory of Hawaii, with whom Marguerite K. Ashford,
First Deputy Attorney General, was on the brief, for the
petitioners.
These laws do not violate the Constitution. Pierce v.
Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510; Meyer v. Nebraska, 262
U. S. 390; and Bartels v. Iowa, 262 U. S. 404, concern
prohibitory legislation alone, and not purely regulatory
measures such as those involved in this case, which
attempt rather to supervise and control than to abolish
foreign language schools.
It would be a sad commentary on our system of government to hold that the Territory must stand by, impo-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Petitioners.

273 U. S.

tent, and watch its foreign-born guests conduct a vast
system of schools of American pupils, teaching them loyalty to a foreign country and disloyalty to their own
country, and hampering them during their tender years
in the learning of the home language in the public
schools,-to hold that the Territory could not by mere
regulatory measures even alleviate these evils to a moderate extent while not interfering in the least with the
proper maintenance of these schools or the teaching of
foreign languages in them, but on the contrary making
them more efficient for this their declared object.
The State has authority over such schools for at least
two reasons: (1) that as parens patriae it has extensive
power with respect to infants; and (2) that it is vitally
interested in the quality of its citizenship.
An act may go far in prohibitory form and yet be regulatory. McCluskey v. Tobin, 252 U. S. 107. That regulation, as distinguished from prohibition, may extend to
all occupations and professions, is shown by Gundling v.
Chicago, 177 U. S. 183. See also, Adams v. Tanner, 244
U. S. 590; Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114; Ex parte
McManus, 151 Cal. 331; Mutual Film Corp. v. Ohio
Indus'l. Comm., 236 U. S. 230.
This is not a question of whether the court may disagree with the legislature on the question of advisability,
or policy, or reasonableness; it is a question of whether
the legislation is arbitrary or unreasonable in the established legal sense. Lindsley v. Nat. Gas Co., 220 U. S.
61; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342; Crescent Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 257 U. S. 129; Armour &
Co. v. North Dakota, 240 U. S. 510; Ward & Gow v.
Krinsky, 259 U. S. 503; Territory v. Takanabe, 28 Haw.
43; Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138.
Private schools are a proper subject of regulation.
State v. Bailey, 157 Ind. 324. Compulsory education
statutes do not require attendance at public schools

FARRINGTON v. TOKUSHIGE.
284

Argument for Petitioners.

alone, but at either public or private schools. Necessarily, in order to meet the requirements in respect of the
period of years and the field of knowledge to be covered,
it must be within the power of the legislature to regulate within reasonable limits the qualifications of the
teachers, the subjects to be covered, the instruction to be
given and how and to what extent-within the limits of
the power-other instruction should be forbidden. The
right to regulate private schools in Hawaii has long been
unquestioned.
See Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Interstate Ry.
Co. v. Massachusetts, 207 U. S. 79.
Even if one or more of the provisions of the Act be
unconstitutional, the remainder, if found constitutional,
should be declared valid. In no event could the plaintiff schools complain on behalf of the teachers or as
to the provisions relating to the teachers, for they are
not the parties hurt by those provisions. In re Craig,
20 Haw. 483; Territory v. Field, 23 Haw. 230; Milton
Dairy Co. v. Great Nor. Ry. Co., 124 Minn. 239; Nor.
Pac. R. R. v. Whalen, 149 U. S. 157; Mut. Film Corp. v.
Kansas, 236 U. S. 248; McCabe v. Ry. Co., 235 U. S.
151; Davis Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207. Furthermore, it is probable that those teachers who have
availed themselves of the law, and taken out permits,
have waived the right to question the constitutionality
of the legislation.
The issuance of a permit, which is in the nature of a
license, is mandatory on the Department, if the applicant has complied with the prescribed conditions, In re
Kalama, 22 Haw. 96; Tai Kee v. Minister of Interior,
11 Haw. 57; and if in such case a permit should be refused, the applicant could either compel its issuance by
mandamus or else proceed with immunity to act as if he
had a permit, Territory v. Kua, 22 Haw. 307; Royal1 v.
Virginia, 116 U. S. 572. No permit can be revoked with-

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Respondents.

273 U. S.

out giving the holder an opportunity to be heard, Wilson
v. Lord-Young Eng. Co., 21 Haw. 87; and, even if the
provisions as to permits and pledges were invalid, that
would not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
these Acts. Territory v. Apa, 28 Haw. 222.
Teachers of American citizens in this extensive system
of schools should know at least the elements of the history,
institutions, ideals and language of the country in which
they are teaching and of which their pupils are citizens.
Mr. Joseph Lightfoot, with whom Mr. Joseph B. Poindexter was on the brief, for respondents.
The statute unreasonably interferes with the fundamental right of parents and guardians to direct the upbringing and education of children under their control.
Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390; Bartels v. Iowa, 262
U. S. 404; Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510.
No attempt was made in the Nebraska, Iowa, or Ohio
statutes to control the course of study, text books, entrance requirements or qualifications of teachers, nor was
there any interference whatsoever with the conduct of
private schools except that the English language should be
the medium of instruction and that foreign languages as
such should not be taught below certain grades. These
were declared unconstitutional by this Court as such laws
plainly interfere with the right of a parent to direct and
control the education of his child.
The Hawaiian statute goes far beyond these statutes in
every essential particular; it takes from the parent of a
child attending a foreign language school, all control and
direction of the education of his child. Complete control
of these schools is given to the Department of Education.
The effect is to make them public schools in all but the
name, though the public contributes nothing to their
support. They are prohibited from employing a teacher,
teaching a subject, using a book, admitting a pupil, or

FARRINGTON v. TOKUSHIGE.
284

Argument for Respondents.

engaging in any activity of any nature, unless approved
by the Department of Education. Nor can such a school
be conducted until a permit is granted and an exorbitant
fee paid-a condition not imposed on any other private
school in the Territory.
In the public schools all are taught the same lessons
of Americanism and democratic ideals, which are considered sufficient for a majority of the pupils, yet the
minority of the pupils, whose parents desire to fit them
for the battle of life by teaching them a language which
will be of great benefit to them in their after careers,
attend the foreign language schools where they are further regulated, controlled, taxed, and this, too, in the
face of the admitted fact that nothing un-American is
taught in the foreign language schools, and the Americanism of the pupils is advanced, not retarded in them.
The sole purpose of the law is the Americanization of
the pupils of these schools, though it is admitted that
nothing un-American is taught in them. Where a system
infringes on the Constitution, a part of the system, though
unobjectionable in itself, falls with the system. Wolff
Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 552; Meyer v.
Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390. Where one provision of a statute is invalid, the whole must fall, where it is evident that
the legislature would not have enacted the one without
the other. Connolly v. Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Little
Rock Ry. v. Worthen, 120 U. S. 907; Spraiguev. Thompson, 118 U. S. 90. A subject may be clearly within the
police powers, but the enactment may be so unreasonable
or inappropriate for the accomplishment of ostensible
purposes that the court will declare it null and void.
Dobbins v. "LosAngeles, 195 U. S. 223.
The Hawaii law is unconstitutional in that it delegates
police power to the Board of Education to be exercised at
its discretion, Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Noel v.
People, 187 Ill. 587; and no standard is furnished by the
42847°-27-19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

statute for the guidance of the Board, Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed [11 Fed. (2d)
710] an interlocutory decree rendered by the United
States District Court of Hawaii July 21, 1925, which
granted a temporary injunction forbidding petitioners-Governor, Attorney General and Superintendent of Public Instruction of that Territory-from attempting to enforce the provisions of Act 30, Special Session 1920, Legislature of Hawaii, entitled, "An Act relating to foreign
language schools and teachers thereof," as amended by
Act 171 of 1923 and Act 152 of 1925, and certain regulations adopted by the Department of Public Instruction
June 1, 1925. The interlocutory decree was granted upon
the bill and affidavits presented by both sides. No answer
has been filed. In these circumstances we only consider
whether the judicial discretion of the trial court was improperly exercised.
Respondents claimed below and maintain here that enforcement of the challenged Act would deprive them of
their liberty and property without due process of law
contrary to the Fifth Amendment. Petitioners insist that
the entire Act and the regulations adopted thereunder are
valid; that they prescribe lawful rules for the conduct of
private foreign language schools necessary for the public
welfare; also that if any provision of the statute transcends the power of the Legislature it should be disregarded and the remaining ones should be enforced.
If the enactment is subject to the asserted objections it
is not here seriously questioned that respondents are entitled to the relief granted.
There are one hundred and sixty-three foreign language
schools in the Territory. Nine are conducted in the

FARRINGTON v. TOKUSHIGE.
284

Opinion of the Court.

Korean language, seven in the Chinese and the remainder
in the Japanese. Respondents are members of numerous
voluntary unincorporated associations conducting foreign
language schools for instruction of Japanese children.
These are owned, maintained and conducted by upwards
of five thousand persons; the property used in connection
therewith is worth two hundred and fifty thousand dollars; the enrolled pupils number twenty thousand; and
three hundred teachers are employed. These schools receive no aid from public funds. All children residing within the Territory are required to attend some public or
equivalent school; and practically ,l who go to foreign
language schools also attend public or such private schools.
It is affirmed by counsel for petitioners that Japanese
pupils in the public and equivalent private schools increased from one thousand, three hundred and twenty in
1900 to nineteen th6usand, three hundred and fifty-four
in 1920, and that out of a total of sixty-five thousand,
three hundred and sixty-nine pupils of all races on December 31, 1924, thirty thousand, four hundred and eightyseven were Japanese.
The challenged enactment declares that the term, "foreign language school," as used therein, "shall be construed to mean any school which is conducted in any
language other than the English language or Hawaiian
language, except Sabbath schools." And, as stated by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, the following are its more
prominent and questionable features.
"No such school shall be conducted in the territory
unless under a written permit therefor from the Department of Public Instruction, nor unless the fee therefor
shall have been paid as therein provided, and such permit
shall be kept exposed in a prominent place at the school
so as to be readily seen and read by visitors thereat.
"The fee prescribed is one dollar per pupil on the estimated average attendance of pupils at the school during

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

the period during which such school was conducted during
the next preceding school year, or if such school was not
conducted during any part of such preceding school year,
then at the same rate at the estimated average attendance
during the school year or unexpired part thereof in question, in which latter case the amount shall be adjusted to
conform to the estimated average attendance during such
year or part thereof.
"The amount of the fee shall be estimated and determined by the department from such information as it
may have, and shall be payable by any person, persons
or corporation conducting or participating in conducting
such school; and all officers, teachers and all members of
any committee or governing board of any such school,
and in case such school is conducted by or for a corporation or voluntary association or other group of persons,
all members or associates of such corporation, association
or group shall be deemed to be participants in conducting
such school. Provision is then made for the collection
of the fees by suit, but that provision is not deemed
material here.
"All permits must be renewed annually on the first day
of September of each year and a similar fee must be paid,
provided the department shall not be required to renew
a permit for conducting any foreign language school, in
the conducting of which there has been a violation of the
terms of the Act.
"All fees collected by the department under the Act
shall be paid over to the Treasurer of the Territory and
the moneys so paid are appropriated to the department
to be expended in enforcing and carrying out its provisions. If at any time the funds at the disposal of the
department from fees previously collected or from royalties, commissions or other moneys received in connection
with the publication or sale of foreign language school
text-books shall make it possible to fully and effectively

FARRINGTON v. TOKUSHIGE.
284

Opinion of the Court.

carry out the provisions of the Act with the permit fees
payable by the schools based on a lower rate than one
dollar per pupil, the department is authorized to make
such a reduction in that rate as it may deem reasonable
and expedient.
"Every person conducting a foreign language school
shall, not later than June 15, of each year, file with the
department on forms prescribed or furnished by it a sworn
list of all pupils in attendance at such school during the
current school year, showing the name, sex, parents or
guardians, place of birth and residence of each child.
"No person shall teach in a foreign language school
unless and until he shall have first applied to and obtained
a permit so to do from the department and this shall also
be construed to include persons exercising or performing
administrative powers at any school. No permit to teach
in a foreign language school shall be granted unless and
until the department is satisfied that the applicant for
the same is possessed of the ideals of democracy; knowledge of American history and institutions, and knows
how to read, write and speak the English language.
"It is the declared object of the Act to fully and
effectively regulate the conducting of foreign language
schools and the teaching of foreign languages, in order
that the Americanism of the pupils may be promoted,
and the department is directed to carry out the provisions of the Act in accordance with its spirit and
purpose.
"Before issuing a permit to conduct a foreign language
school or to teach in any such school the department
shall require the applicant for such permit to sign a
pledge that the applicant will, if granted a permit to
teach in such a school, abide by and observe the terms of
the Act, and the regulations and orders of the department,
and will, to the best of his ability, so direct the minds and
studies of pupils in such schools as will tend to make them

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

good and loyal American citizens, and will not permit
such students to receive instructions in any way inconsistent therewith.
"No foreign language school shall be conducted in the
morning before the school hours of the public schools or
during the hours while the public schools are in session,
nor shall any pupil attend any foreign language school
for more than one hour each day, nor exceeding six hours
in any one week, nor exceeding thirty-eight weeks in any
school year; provided, however, the department may in
its discretion and with the approval of the Governor,
modify this provision.
"The department shall have full power from time to
time to prescribe by regulations the subjects and courses
of study of all foreign language schools, and the entrance
and attendance prerequisites or qualifications of education, age, school attainment, demonstrated mental
capacity, health and otherwise, and the text-books used
in any foreign language school.
"Until otherwise provided by the department, the following regulations are in effect: Up to September 1, 1923,
every pupil shall have first satisfactorily completed the
American public school first grade, or a course equivalent
thereto, before attending or being allowed to attend any
foreign language school. Beginning September 1, 1923,
and thereafter, every pupil shall have satisfactorily completed the American public school first and second grades,
or courses equivalent thereto, before attending or being
allowed to attend any foreign language school. Beginning September 1, 1923, and thereafter, for grades one,
two and three, and beginning September 1, 1924, and
thereafter, for grades four and above, all new text-books
used in elementary foreign language schools shall be based
upon the principle that the pupil's normal medium of
expression is English and shall contain, as far as practicable, English equivalents for foreign words and idioms.

FARRINGTON v. TOKUSHIGE.
284

Opinion of the Court.

"The department is authorized to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, or procure or arrange for procuring suitable
text-books for the teaching of foreign languages in the
foreign language schools and to enter into an agreement
or agreements for the publishing and sale of the same.
"All royalties, commissions and moneys received by or
on behalf of the department in connection with the publication or sale of such text-books shall be paid over to
the treasurer of the territory and shall be appropriated
to the department to be expended for the purposes of
the Act.
"In every foreign language school no subjects of study
shall be taught, nor courses of study followed, nor entrance, nor attendance qualifications required, nor textbooks used, other than as prescribed or permitted by the
department. The latter regulations were only effective
until superseded in whole or in part by others made by
the department, and some such were thereafter made,
but they are not deemed material to our present inquiry.
"The department has power to appoint one or more
inspectors of foreign language schools and to pay the
salary and necessary expenses therefor; such inspectors
and other duly authorized agents of the department shall
have the right freely to visit such foreign language
schools and to inspect the buildings, equipment, records
and teaching thereof and the text-books used therein.
"If the department shall at any time become satisfied
that any holder of a permit to conduct a foreign language
school or to teach therein does not possess the qualifications required by the Act, or shall have violated or failed
to observe any of the provisions of the Act or of the
regulations or orders of the department, the department
may then and thereupon revoke the permit theretofore
granted and the same shall thereupon be and become null
and void.
"Any person who shall conduct or participate in conducting a foreign language school or who shall teach in

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

a foreign language school contrary to the provisions of
the Act, or who shall violate or participate in violating
any of the provisions thereof, or any of the regulations
or orders of the department, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed $25, and each day's violation shall
be deemed a separate offense.
"The Act further provides that if any section or part
thereof is declared unconstitutional or invalid by the
courts, the same shall not affect the validity of the Act
as a whole, or any part thereof which can be given effect
without the part so decided to be unconstitutional or
invalid."
On June 1, 1925, the Department of Public Instruction adopted, and the Governor approved, certain regulations which undertook to limit the pupils who might
attend foreign language schools to those who regularly
attended some public school or approved private school,
or had completed the eighth grade, or were over fourteen years of age. Also, to designate the text-books which
foreign language schools should use in their primary
grades.
The affidavit of T. Iwanaga, in support of motion for
temporary injunction, states-"That in the schools referred to in said bill, which are
conducted for each grade for one hour for each school
day, nothing contrary to American history and American institutions and principles of democracy is taught,
the instruction being confined to the speaking, reading
and writing of the Japanese language;
"That in the schools represented by plaintiffs there are
about twelve thousand four hundred pupils and said
schools employ about one hundred ninety-two teachers;
that said teachers are paid and said schools are maintained from voluntary contributions and from the fees
of the children attending said schools; that the provi-

FARRINGTON v. TOKUSHIGE.
284

Opinion of the Court.

sions of said Act 152 of the Session Laws of 1925 are so
drastic that the parents of children will be afraid to pay
tuition fees and other persons will be afraid to contribute
to the funds of said schools lest they be subjected to the
pains and penalties provided in said Act, and that, therefore, unless immediate relief is afforded by this Honorable Court, *the said schools will be unable to pay the
teachers' salaries and the expenses of conducting said
schools and the property of plaintiffs in said schools will
be utterly destroyed."
An affidavit of the Attorney General describes the litigation which has arisen under the legislation concerning
foreign language schools. He does not disavow purpose
to enforce all provisions of the challenged Act and regulations. An affidavit by the Superintendent of Public
Instruction advances the opinion that respondents could
pay the prescribed fees, that compliance with the foreign
language school laws would not prevent the operation of
schools which conduct kindergartens, and that elimination
of the kindergartens would not materially affect them.
Also, he says"That instruction in said Japanese Language Schools is
not and cannot be confined to the speaking, reading and
writing of the Japanese language, but extends to many
subjects and even in so far as it is intended to have for its
object the speaking, reading and writing of said language,
the teaching of that is and must be largely through the
medium of stories whether of history or fiction and in
other ways than the mere teaching of letters and words
and sentences. .
"That, in the opinion of this affiant, the parents of
children will not because of the provisions of said Act 152
be afraid to pay tuition fees nor will other persons be
afraid to contribute to the funds of such schools and this
affiant denies that said schools will, unless immediate
relief is afforded by this Honorable Court, be unable to

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U.S.

pay the teachers' salaries and the expenses of conducting
said schools, and denies that the property of plaintiffs in
said schools will be utterly or at all destroyed."
The foregoing statement is enough to show that the
school Act and the measures adopted thereunder go far
beyond mere regulation of privately-supported schools
where children obtain instruction deemed valuable by
their parents and which is not obviously in conflict with
any public interest. They give affirmative direction concerning the intimate and essential details of such schools,
intrust their control to public officers, and deny both
owners and patrons reasonable choice and discretion in
respect of teachers, curriculum and text-books. Enforcement of the Act probably would destroy most, if not all,
of them; and, certainly, it would deprive parents of fair
opportunity to procure for their children instruction
which they think important and we cannot say is harmful.
The Japanese parent has the right to direct the education
of his own child without unreasonable restrictions; the
Constitution protects him as well as those who speak
another tongue.
Upon the record and the arguments presented, we cannot undertake to consider the validity of each separate
provision of the Act and decide whether, dissociated from
the others, its enforcement would violate respondents'
constitutional rights. Apparently all are parts of a deliberate plan to bring foreign language schools under a strict
governmental control for which the record discloses no
adequate reason. Here, the enactment has been defended
as a whole. No effort has been made to discuss the validity
of the several provisions. In the trial court the cause proceeded upon the theory that petitioners intended to
enforce all of them.
The general doctrine touching rights guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment to owners, parents and children
in respect of attendance upon schools has been announced

UNITED STATES v. LOS ANGELES R.R.
284

299

Syllabus.

in recent opinions. Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390;
Bartels v. Iowa, id. 404; Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268
U. S.510. While that amendment declares that no State
shall "deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law," the inhibition of the Fifth
Amendment-" no person shall . . . be deprived of
life, liberty or property without due process of law "applies to the federal government and agencies set up by
Congress for the government of the Territory. Those
fundamental rights of the individual which the cited cases
declared were protected by the Fourteenth Amendment
from infringement by the States, are guaranteed by the
Fifth Amendment against action by the Territorial Legislature or officers.
We of course appreciate the grave problems incident to
the large alien population of the Hawaiian Islands. These
should be given due weight whenever the validity of any
governmental regulation of private schools is under consideration; but the limitations of the Constitution must
not be transcended.
It seems proper to add that when petitioners present
their answer the issues may become more specific and
permit the cause to be dealt with in greater detail.
We find no abuse of the discretion lodged in the trial
court. The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. LOS ANGELES & SALT
LAKE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 414.

Argued January 3, 4, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. A " final" valuation of the property of a railroad by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, pursuant to § 19a of the Act to Regulate

