326

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

273 U. S.

pective profits were not included; and (2) appellant by
the terms of the supplemental contract expressly released
all claims to such profits.
Judgment affirmed.
SACRAMENTO NAVIGATION COMPANY v. SALZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 51.

Argued December 2, 3, 1926.--Decided February 21, 1927.

1. A contract for the transportation of cargo shipped on board a
barge, with privilege to the carrier of reshipping, in whole or in
part, on steamboats or barges and of towing with one steamer two
or more barges at the same time, is a contract of affreightment, in
which it is necessarily implied that the barge as a means of transportation will be used in conjunction with a steamer or tug, to be
furnished by the carrier, the two constituting together the effective
instrumentality. P. 328.
2. In such case, the barge and the tug together constitute the "vessel transporting merchandise or property" within ยง 3 of the Harter
Act. P. 330.
3. The rule of strict construction is not violated by permitting the
words of a statute to have their full meaning or the more extended
of two meanings. P. 329.
3 F (2d) 759, reversed.
CERTIORARI (268 U. S. 683) to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed a decree of the District
Court in favor of Salz, the present respondent, in a suit
in personam brought by him to recover for the loss of a
cargo of barley while it was being towed by the petitioner
under a contract of affreightment.

Mr. Louis T. Hengstler, with whom Messrs. H. H. Sanborn and Frederick W. Dorr were on the brief, for the
petitioner.
Mr. Carroll Single, with whom Mr. S. Hasket Derby
was on the brief, for the respondent.

SACRAMENTO NAV. CO. v. SALZ.
326

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This appeal involves the construction and application
of ยง 3 of the Harter Act, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445, which, so
far as pertinent here, provides: "That if the owner of
any vessel transporting merchandise or property to or
from any port in the United States of America shall
exercise due diligence to make the said vessel in all respects seaworthy and properly manned, equipped, and
supplied, neither the vessel, her owner or owners, agent,
or charterers shall become or be held responsible for
damage or loss resulting from faults or errors in navigation or in the management of said vessel
Petitioner is a common carrier on the Sacramento
River in California and owns and operates the barge
"Tennessee," which is not equipped with motive power,
and the steamer "San Joaquin No. 4." On September
23, 1921, petitioner received from respondent for transportation a quantity of barley in sacks. The bill of lading acknowledges shipment of the barley "on board of
the Sacramento Transportation [Navigation] Co.'s. Barge
'Tennessee'
. . . ; with the privilege of reshipping
in whole or in part, on steamboats or barges; also with
the privilege of towing with one steamer, at the same
time, . . . two or more barges, either loaded or
empty." While being towed by the steamer in the course
of transportation, the barge came into collision with a
British ship at anchor and was swamped. The barley
was a total loss. The sole cause of the collision was the
negligence of the steamer. That both barge and steamer
were "in all respects seaworthy and properly manned,
equipped, and supplied," is not in dispute. Upon these
facts, respondent filed his libel in personam against
petitioner.
In the view we take of !he case the sole question to be
determined is whether the barge alone or the combina-

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

tion of tug and barge was the "vessel transporting" the
barley, within the meaning of the Harter Act. This question is a nice one, and the answer to it is by no means
obvious. The court below thought the contract was between the respondent and the barge, and did not include
the tug; that since the barge had no power of her own,
there was an implied contract that a tug would be furnished to carry her to her destination; and that the
Harter Act should receive a strict construction and, so
construed, it applied only to the relation of a vessel to
the cargo with which she was herself laden-that is to
say, in this case, the barge alone. The decree of the
district court for respondent, accordingly, was affirmed.
3 F. (2d) 759.
The libel recites that it is "in a cause of towage," and
in argument this is strenuously insisted upon. Towage
service is the employment of one vessel to expedite the
voyage of another. Here, while there was towage service, the contract actually made with respondent was not
to tow a vessel but to transport goods, and plainly that
contract was a contract of affreightment. See Bramble
v. Culmer, 78 Fed. 497, 501; The Nettie Quill, 124 Fed.
667, 670. Respondent's contention, however, seems to be
that the shipping contract as evidenced by the bill of
lading was with or for the barge alone; but that when
petitioner took the barge in tow an implied contract of
towage with respondent at once arose. This view of the
matter, we think, is fallacious.
The fact that we are dealing with vessels, which by a
fiction of the law are invested with personality, does not
require us to disregard the actualities of the situation,
namely, that the owner of the tug towed his own barge
as a necessary incident of the contract of affreightment,
and that the transportation of the cargo was in fact
effected by their joint operation. The bill of lading declares that the cargo was shipped on board the barge.

SACRAMENTO NAV. CO. v. SALZ.
326

Opinion of the Court.

But it was to be transported; and this the barge alone was
incapable of doing, since she had no power of self-movement. It results, necessarily, that it was within the contemplation of the contract that the transportation would
be accomplished by combining the barge with a vessel
having such power. Respondent says there was an implied contract to this effect ;-that is, as we understand,
a distinct contract implied in fact. But a contract includes not only the promises set forth in express words,
but, in addition, all such implied provisions as are indispensable to effectuate the intention of the parties and
as arise from the language of the contract and the circumstances under which it was made, 3 Williston on Contracts, ยง 1293; Brodie v. Cardiff Corporation, [1919]
A. C. 337, 358; and there is no justification here for going
beyond the contract actually made to invoke the conception of an independent implied contract.
Considering the language of the bill of lading in the
light of all the circumstances, it is manifest that we are
dealing with a single contract and the use of the tug must
be read into that contract as an indispensable factor in
the performance of its obligations. To transport means
to convey or carry from one place to another; and a transportation contract for the barge without the tug would
have -been as futile as a contract for the use of a freight
car without a locomotive. In this view, by the terms of
the contract of affreightment, in part expressed and in
part necessarily resulting from that which was expressed,
the transportation of the goods was called for not by the
barge, an inert thing, but by the barge and tug, constituting together the effective instrumentality to that
end.
It is said that the Harter Act is to be strictly construed.
The Main v. Williams, 152 U. S. 122, 132. Even so, the
rule of strict construction is not violated by permitting the
words of a statute to have their full meaning, or the more

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

extended of two meanings. The words are not to be bent
one way or the other, but to be taken in the sense which
will best manifest the legislative intent. United States v.
Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, 396; United States v. Corbett, 215
U. S. 233, 242. In the light of the decisions presently to
be noted, the words, a "vessel transporting merchandise,"
etc., are entirely appropriate to describe the combination
now in question, and we see no reason to think that Congress intended that they should not be so applied. This
court and other federal courts repeatedly have held that
such a combination constitutes, in law, one vessel. See
The Northern Belle, 9 Wall. 526, 528-529; The "Civilta "
and the "Restless," 103 U. S. 699, 701; The Nettie Quill,
supra; The Columbia, 73 Fed. 226; The Seven Bells, 241
Fed. 43, 45; The Fred. W. Chase, 31 Fed. 91, 95; The
Bordentown, 40 Fed. 682, 687; State v. Turner, 34 Ore.
173, 175-176.
In The Northern Belle, supra, this court, speaking of a
combination of barge and steamboat, said that "the barge
is considered as belonging to the boat to which she is
attached for the purposes of that voyage." In The
"Civilta" and the "Restless," supra, a tug and a ship
which she was towing by means of a hawser were held to
be in contemplation of law "one vessel, and that a vessel
under steam."
In The Columbia,supra, it was held that a barge having
no motive power and a tug belonging to the same owner
and furnishing the motive power constituted one vessel
for the purposes of the voyage. In that case, wheat was
to be transported by means of the barge, and the owner
of the barge and tug undertook the transportation. The
court said (p. 237): "As the wheat was to be carried on
board the barge, which had no motive power, of necessity
such power had to be supplied by the carrier. ...
When the tug made fast and took in tow the barge, to
perform the contract of carriage, the two became one

SACRAMENTO NAV. CO. v. SALZ.
326

Opinion of the Court.

vessel for the purpose of that voyage,-as much so as if
she had been taken bodily on board the tug, instead of
being made fast thereto by means of lines." It was,
accordingly, held that, without surrendering both vessels,
the owner was not entitled to the advantages of Revised
Statutes ยง 4283 et seq., providing for a limitation of
liability of "the owner of any vessel," etc.
The court below rejected this decision as not applicable
to a case arising under the Harter Act; but it is hard to
see why the case is not pertinent and, if sound, controlling.
What we are called upon to ascertain is the meaning of
the term "any vessel," and the point decided in that case
is that it includes a combination identical in all respects
with that here dealt with. True, the court there, in construing the phrase, "the owner of any vessel," was considering one statute while here we are considering another
and different statute; but there is no such difference
between the statutes in respect of the connection in which
the phrase is used or in respect of the subject-matter to
which it relates as to suggest that Congress intended that
it should bear different meanings.
Respondent contends that his view to the contrary is
sustained by The Murrell, 195 Fed. 483, affirming 200 Fed.
826, and The Coastwise, 233 Fed. 1, affirming 230 Fed.
505. Some things are said in those cases which, if we
should not consider the differences between them and the
present case, might justify this contention. The most
important of these differences is that in both cases it was
held that contracts of towage and not of affreightment
were involved. We do not stop to inquire whether this
conclusion as to the nature of the contracts was justified
by the facts. It is enough that it was so held and this
holding was the basis of the decisions. Here, upon all the
facts, as we have just said, the contract upon which
respondent must rest is one of affreightment, the obligation of which is to carry a cargo not to tow a vessel.

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 1V. S.

Liverpool, &c. Nay. Co. v. Brooklyn Term'l, 251 U. S.
48, also relied upon by respondent, is not to the contrary.
There the libel was for a collision with petitioner's steamship, the moving cause of 'vhich was respondent's steam
tug, proceeding up the East River, with a loaded car float
lashed to one side and a disabled tug to the other, all
belonging to respondent. The car float came into contact
with the steamship; but the court said it was a passive
instrument in the hands of the tug and did not affect the
question of responsibility. The controversy arose upon a
claim to limit liability, petitioner contending that the
entire flotilla should have been surrendered. This court
held that it was necessary to surrender only the active tug,
saying "that for the purposes of liability the passive
instrument of the harm does not become one with the
actively responsible vessel by being attached to it." But
this is far from saying that the entire flotilla might not be
regarded as one vessel for the purposes of the undertaking
in which the common owner was engaged at the time of
the collision. The distinction seems plain. There the
libel was for an injury to a ship in no way related to the
flotilla. It was a pure tort-no contractual obligations
were involved; and the simple inquiry was, What constituted the "offending vessel "? Here we must ask, What
constituted the vessel by which the contract of transportation was to be effected? a very different question. If the
British ship which here was struck by the barge were
suing to recover damages and a limitation of liability
were sought by the owner of the tug and barge, the Liverpool case would be in point. But the present libel is for a
loss of cargo and falls within the principle of The Columbia, supra, where, upon facts substantially identical with
those here, a surrender was required of the combined
means by which the company undertook the transportation of the cargo.
Decree reversed.

