AMER. RY. EXPRESS v. KENTUCKY.
261

Syllabus.

indictment. The respondent could not get rid of the
duty by hiding them in his stockings and other personal
luggage. He could not purge himself of the consequences
of his fraud by confessing when he saw that he was on the
point of being discovered or, as might have been found,
after he had been. The argument that in such circumstances he was entitled to forty-eight hours, ยง 484(a),
or any time to change his mind and make entry of the
goods, seems to us extravagant. Repentance came too
late.
Judgment reversed.
AMERICAN RAILWAY EXPRESS COMPANY v.
KENTUCKY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 5. Argued January 29, 1925; reargued November 17, 18,
1925.-Decided February 21, 1927.
1. Upon review of a judgment of a state court, not explained by any
opinion, grounds of decision involving constitutional questions but
not appearing in the record can not be merely assumed. P. 272.

2. Save in exceptional circumstances, decisions of state courts on
questions of common law as locally applicable are binding in this
Court. P. 272.
3. A judgment pronounced by a state court, with jurisdiction, after
a fair hearing, is not violative of due process under the Fourteenth
Amendment, even if erroneous, if it is not evasive of a constitutional
issue or a result of arbitrary or capricious action. P. 273.
4. Petitioner, a Delaware corporation, was organized under agreement
of the interested parties, during the War, to take over the business
and operative properties of all the principal express companies;
which it did, paying them with shares of its capital stock issued
for the purpose. No provision was made for paying obligations
of the old companies. Held that indebtedness in Kentucky of one
of the old companies, which arose previously from its express
business there, could constitutionally be enforced by the Kentucky

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

courts against the new company, the old one not being dissolved or
insolvent but retired to another State where it still had the stock
received from the new company and other valuable property.
P. 274.
Affirmed.

CERTIORARI (264 U. S. 579) to a judgment of the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky, which affirmed a judgment
against the American Railway Express Company for the
aggregate of numerous judgments previously recovered
against the Adams Express Company by the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
Mr. Kenneth E. Stockton for the petitioner on the
original argument; Mr. Branch P. Kerfoot on the reargument. Mr. Charles W. Stockton was also on the brief.
See the brief in the next case.
Mr. Frank E. Daugherty, Attorney General of Kentucky, for the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
MR. JusTIcE MCIEYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Without opinion the Kentucky Court of Appeals affirmed a judgment by the Harlan Circuit Court against
petitioner and in favor of the Commonwealth for the
aggregate sum of forty-four judgments against the Adams
Express Company theretofore granted on account of
alleged defaults during 1916.
The Adams Company is a "joint stock association,"
organized under the laws of New York. For many years
it operated as a common carrier of goods in Kentucky and
other States and owned therein valuable property essential to the conduct of this business. In Kentucky it owned
no other property.
The petitioner is a Delaware corporation, organized
under an agreement of the interested parties for the purpose of taking over the busines and operating property

AMER. RY. EXPRESS v. KENTUCKY.
269

Opinion of the Court.

of all the principal express companies of the country by
issuing stock to the several owners. Directly after its
organization, and on July 1, 1918, it acquired the entire
express business and all property connected therewith of
the Adams Company and issued therefor several million
dollars of its capital stock. (Like transfers were made by
the other express companies.) The seller immediately
ceased to operate in Kentucky and the purchaser continued the business. Neither company made any provision for paying the outstanding obligations of the Adams
Company contracted in Kentucky; but the latter held in
its treasury at New York the stock received from the purchaser, possessed other valuable property located there,
and was solvent.
Respondent claimed that petitioner became liable for
unsatisfied obligations of the Adams Company. After a
full and fair hearing upon pleadings and proof, the Court
of Appeals sustained this theory but assigned no reason.
That court, it is said, determined the same issues as here
presented in American Railway Express Co. v. Commonwealth of Kentucky, 190 Ky. 636, and supported the judgment by an elaborate opinion. But the record now before
us fails to show any reference whatever to that opinion
when the present cause was decided.
The petition for certiorari affirmed that the cause involved the following questions of constitutional law and
because of them asked a review. We go no further than
their consideration requires.
(1) Whether it is a lack of due process of law for the
Kentucky Court to deprive the petitioner of its property
on the following assumptions which are unsupported by
the record and contrary to fact; (a) that the Adams
Express Company is a corporation; (b) that the State of
Kentucky was a creditor of the Adams Express Company
on June 30, 1918; (c) that the stock issued to the Adams
Express Company was distributed by it among its shareholders.

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

(2) Whether petitioner is denied the equal protection
of the laws by a decision of a state court which holds that
a corporation which pays cash for property is a holder for
value but that a corporation which issues less than a controlling interest of its own stock for property is a donee,
and takes such property subject to existing claims of the
vendor's creditors.
(3) Whether it is lack of due process for the state of
Kentucky to enforce a rule that a bona fide purchaser for
value of all the Kentucky property of a solvent vendor is
liable to Kentucky creditors of the vendor to the extent of
the value of the property acquired.
(4) Whether a decision of a state court which is contrary to the common law, and justifiable only as an exercise of the state's police power, can be retroactively applied to affect vested rights.
The grounds upon which the Court of Appeals rested
its judgment are not revealed-there was no opinion.
Consequently, petitioner's argument which rests upon
alleged assumptions is impertinent.
The record discloses no ruling that a corporation which
pays cash for property holds for value but if property is
acquired by issuing less than a controlling interest of
stock it takes subject to claims of the seller's creditors.
As there was no controlling statute the state court
necessarily determined the rights and liabilities of the
parties under the general rules of jurisprudence which it
deemed part of the law of Kentucky and applicable in
the circumstances. It went no further. No earlier opinion was overruled or qualified and no rule was given any
retroactive effect. Save in exceptional circumstances not
now present we must accept as controlling the decision of
the state courts upon questions of local law, both statutory and common. "The due process clause does not
take up the laws of the several States and, make all questions pertaining to them constitutional questions, nor

AMER. RY. EXPRESS v. KENTUCKY.
269

Opinion of the Court.

does it enable this court to revise the decisions of the
state courts upon questions of state law." Enterprise
Irrigation District v. Farmers Mutual Canal Co., 243
U. S. 157, 165, 166.
The Kentucky court had jurisdiction and has determined only that under common law principles in the
peculiar circumstances above narrated, where the facts
were or might have been known to the purchasing corporation, it became liable for claims against the vendor
resulting from transactions within the State. The action
of the court followed a fair hearing, and there is no pretense that the challenged views were adopted in order to
evade a constitutional issue. We cannot interfere unless
the judgment amounts to mere arbitrary or capricious
exercise of power or is in clear conflict with those fundamental "principles which have been established in our
systems of jurisprudence for the protection and enforcement of private rights." Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714,
733; Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S.425, 429; Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312, 329.
It is firmly established that a merely erroneous decision
given by a state court in the regular course of judicial
proceedings does not deprive the unsuccessful party of
property without due process of law. Arrowsmith v.
Harmoning, 118 U. S. 194, 195; Iowa Central Ry. Co. v.
Iowa, 160 U. S.389, 393; Tracy v. Ginzberg, 205 U. S.
170, 177; Bonner v. Gorman, 213 U. S.86, 91; McDonald
v. Oregon R. R. & Nay. Co., 233 U. S.665, 669.
Considering the circumstances disclosed by the record,
there was nothing arbitrary or obviously contrary to the
fundamental principles of justice in requiring the petitioner, organized for the purposes shown, to satisfy claims
against the Adams Company which arose out of business
within the State. The transfer of all the latter's property located in the State materially interfered with the
ability of Kentucky creditors to enforce their claims, and,
42847 -27----18

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

as to them, might have been declared fraudulent. It
seems clear that the State, without conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, might have enacted through its legislative department a statute of precisely the same effect
as the rule of law and public policy declared by the Court
of Appeals, and its decision is just as valid as such a statute would have been. PrudentialInsurance Co. v. Cheek,
259 U. S. 530, 548.
The above-expressed view is sufficiently confirmed by
what this Court said in Mutual Reserve Association v.
Phelps, 190 U. S. 147, 158, 159, which upheld the validity
of a statute providing for service of process after a corporation had ceased to do business within and had withdrawn all agents from the State; and Lemieux v. Young,
Trustee, 211 U. S. 489, 492, 495, and Kidd, Dater Co. v.
Musselman Grocer Co., 217 U. S. 461, 472, et seq., which
sustained the power of a State to impose liability for the
seller's debts upon a purchaser of merchandise in bulk.
The judgment of the court below must be
Affirmed.
Mr. JUSTICE SUTHERLANI

and MR. JUsTICE

BUTLER,

dissent.
AMERICAN RAILWAY EXPRESS COMPANY v.
ROYSTER GUANO COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SPECIAL COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF VIRGINIA.

No. 116. Argued November 17, 18, 1925.-Decided February 21, 1927.
1. Judgment holding petitioner liable in Virginia for local debts of
a corporation whose business it took over, upheld on authority of
American Ry. Express Co. v. Kentucky, ante p. 269. P. 280.
2. A state statute constitutionally may require a foreign corporation
to appoint a local agent and, in case of its default, may itself

