352

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

9 Cranch 64, 70; Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land and
Improvement Co., 18 How. 272; Sheridan v. Allen, 153
Fed. 568. Cf. Scottish Union & Nat. Ins. Co. v. Bowland,
196 U. S. 611, 632, 633; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 66.
In a later part, subdivision (g), of § 250, "proceedings"
is used broadly in reference to steps for the collection of
taxes. Obviously its meaning is not there limited to
collection by suit. And in other parts of the Internal
Revenue Laws, enacted before this controversy arose,
that word is used as descriptive of steps taken to distrain
and sell personal property and to seize and sell real estate
for the collection of taxes. See R. S., §§ 3194, 3199, 3200,
3203; side-notes to §§ 3190 and 3197.2 .Section 250(d)
of the Act of 1921 and these sections of the Revised
Statutes relate to the same subject and are to be construed
together.
It is clear that the meaning of "proceeding" as used
in the clause of limitation in § 250(d), Revenue Act of
1921, cannot be restricted to steps taken in a suit; it
includes as well steps taken for the collection of taxes
by distraint.
Judgments affirmed.
QUON QUON POY v. JOHNSON, COMMISSIONER.
APPEAL

FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 68. Argued December 9, 10, 1926.-Decided February 21, 1927.
1. A hearing before a Board of Special Inquiry, in an immigration
proceeding, was not rendered unfair by mere delay in its corn'By § 2, c. 140, Act of June 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 74, the commissioners
appointed to revise the laws of the United States were directed to
arrange "side-notes so drawn as to point to the contents of the text."
The side-notes at §§ 3190 and 3197, above referred to, appear in the
first edition of the Revised Statutes and were carried into the second
edition.

QUON QUON POY v. JOHNSON.
352

Opinion of the Court.

mencement; nor by the absence of a friend or relative of the applicant for entry, when the applicant waived his right in that regard;
nor by the introduction before the Board of testimony previously
taken by an inspector, where the applicant made no objection
thereto and did not seek to recall the witness. P. 355.
2. An applicant for admission who has never resided in the United
States, is not entitled under the Constitution to a judicial hearing
of his claim that he is a citizen of the United States by birth.
P. 357.
3. A petition in habeas corpus based solely on the right of the petitioner cannot be maintained on the right of another. P. 358.
4. When a party respondent has since died, the judgment (one of
affirmance) will be nunc pro tunc, as of the date of submission.
P. 359.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a final order of the District Court discharging a writ of habeas corpus, and remanding Poy,
the petitioner, to the custody of the Commissioner of
Immigration.
Mr. Warren Ozro Kyle for the appellant.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. Theodore G. Risley, Solicitor, Department of Labor, and A. E.
Reitzel, Assistant Solicitor, Department of Labor, were
on the brief, for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Quon Quon Poy, a Chinese boy fifteen years of age,
arrived at the port of Boston in June, 1924, and applied
for admission to the United States, claiming to be a foreign-born son of Quon Mee Sing, a native-born citizenwhose citizenship was conceded-and, hence, under R. S.
§ 1993 1 (U. S. C., Tit. 8 § 6), to be himself a citizen of the
'By this section-with an exception not here material-all children
born out of the limits and jurisdiction of the United States, whose
fathers are at the time of their birth citizens thereof, are declared to
be citizens of the United States.
42847°-27-23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

United States. After a preliminary investigation by an
inspector, his claim was heard, under the provisions of the
Immigration Act of 1917,2 by a Board of Special Inquiry,
which decided, on the evidence, that he was not shown to
be the son of Quon Mee Sing, and should be excluded as a
Chinese alien not a member of any of the exempt classes
entitled to enter the United States. On an appeal to the
Secretary of Labor-this finding having been approved by
the Board of Review-the Secretary sustained the decision of the Board of Special Inquiry; and a deportation warrant was issued to the Commissioner of Imngration.
The applicant then presented to the District Court a
petition for a writ of habeas corpus, alleging that he was
the son of Quon Mee Sing and a citizen of the United
States; that he had been denied a fair hearing and opportunity to establish his citizenship by the Department of
Labor; that the procedure in the Department by which
he had been declared an alien denied him the due process
of law to which he was entitled under the Constitution;
and that under his claim to citizenship he was entitled to
an adjudication by the court as to such procedure and
as to his relationship to Quon Mee Sing. The writ was
granted. Upon a hearing on the petition and return, in
which the record of the Departmental proceedings was
introduced, the court, finding that the Departmental decision was conclusive as to the petitioner's citizenship,
'This Act provides that any alien, including "any person not a
native-born or naturalized citizen of the United States," who may not
appear to the examining immigration inspector to be clearly and undoubtedly entitled to land, shall be detained for examination in relation thereto by a board of special inquiry, which shall have authority
to determine whether he shall be allowed to land or shall be deported;
and that in the event of his rejection by the board of special inquiry
he may appeal to the Secretary of Labor, whose decision, where the
deportation is ordered, shall be final. Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29,
39 Stat. 874, §§ 1, 16, 17, 19.

QUON QUON POY v. JOHNSON.
352

355

Opinion of the Court.

declined to hear witnesses offered by him for the purpose
of independently establishing his citizenship; and entered
judgment discharging the writ and remanding the petitioner to the custody of the Commissioner of Immigration.
This direct appeal was then allowed under § 238 of the
Judicial Code, prior to the Jurisdictional Act of 1925.
1. The contention that the petitioner was denied a fair
hearing as to his citizenship by the Department of Labor,
cannot be sustained. The record shows that in September
the inspector to whom the case was referred in its preliminary stage, separately examined, under oath and at length,
the petitioner, and his alleged father and an alleged
brother who offered themselves as witnesses. Their examination, which was by question and answer, was taken
down and is in the record. It was conducted in an entirely
fair and impartial manner. Each of them stated at the
conclusion of his examination that he had nothing further
to say; and no other witnesses offered themselves or were
produced. The petitioner was intelligent, had attended
school, and stated that he thoroughly understood the
interpreter. At the close of this preliminary investigation
the case was immediately referred to the Board of Special
Inquiry, consisting of the same inspector, and two others.
At the commencement of the hearing before the Board
the petitioner was informed of his right to have a relative
or friend present, and stated that he did not desire to avail
himself of this right and was willing to proceed with the
hearing. He was also informed that the previous testimony given by himself and his alleged father and brother
would be made a part of the proceedings before the Board;
to which he made no objection. The petitioner was then
further examined by the Board. After a postponement
for the purpose of obtaining a report, as to the physical
condition of the petitioner, the Board resumed its hearing,
the petitioner being again present; and after consideration
of the entire testimony, being of opinion that his relation-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

ship to Quon Mee Sing had not been reasonably established, voted to accord him five days in which to submit
additional evidence. Notice of this was sent to the attorney representing the petitioner-who had not been present at any of the proceedings-and he replied that the
petitioner had no further testimony to offer. The Board
then recaled the petitioner for further examinationafter which he stated that he had nothing further to sayand again decided that his claimed relationship to Quon
Mee Sing had not been reasonably established and that he
should be excluded; and informed him of his right to
appeal to the Secretary of Labor.
This appeal having been taken, the Board of Review,
after hearing the attorney for the petitioner, made a report in which it reviewed the entire testimony, found that
the record was "exceptionally unfavorable" to the petitioner, and-after referring to his lack of knowledge of
matters which clearly should have been within his
memory, his unsatisfactory explanations, the discrepancies
between his statements and those of his alleged father and
brother, and to a previous statement by his alleged father
to the effect that he had no such son-concluded that the
petitioner had fallen "far short" of establishing that he
was in truth and fact the son of Quon Mee Sing; and
accordingly recommended that the exclusion decision be
affirmed.
The entire record discloses a painstaking and impartial
effort to ascertain the merits of the petitioner's claim.
There is no contention here that the decision of the Board
of Special Inquiry had no adequate support in the evidence. The arguments made as to the unfairness of the
hearing-in so far as they are based upon anything properly appearing in the record before us--relate to the delay
in commencing the hearing, the absence of a friend or relative of the petitioner at the hearing, and the introduction
before the Board of the testimony previously taken by the

QUON QUON POY v. JOHNSON.
352

Opinion of the Court.

single inspector. These are not well taken. Clearly the
mere delay in the commencement of the investigationalthough involving the detention of the petitionerhad no bearing upon the fairness of the hearing
itself. The argument as to the necessity for the
presence of a kinsman or friend of the petitioner
at the hearing, is based upon the provision in § 17 of
the Immigration Act that while the hearing "shall be
separate and apart from the public," the applicant for admission "may have one friend or relative present under
such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of
Labor." Here, however, the Board, at the outset of the
hearing, informed the petitioner of his right to have a relative or friend present; and he expressly waived this right
and stated that he was willing to proceed with the hearing.
And see United States v. Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 161, 169.
The contention that the hearing was invalid because the
greater part of the testimony was taken before a single
inspector and introduced before the Board, is based upon
a provision in the same section of the Act that on an appeal from the Board of Special Inquiry the decision shall
be rendered "solely upon the evidence adduced before the
Board." There is, however, no suggestion whatever in
the Act that the evidence adduced before the Board of
Special Inquiry must be taken in its presence. We see no
reason to doubt that evidence properly taken before an
inspector, § 16,-which has substantially the same effect
as a deposition taken in an ordinary case-may be introduced before the Board and considered by it. See
Kwock Jan Fat v. White, 253 U. S. 454, 458. And here
the petitioner offered no objection to the introduction of
such testimony, and no application was made to recall
the witnesses for re-examination by the Board.
2. It is also contended that as the petitioner claimed
the right of admission to the United States as a citizen
thereof under R. S. § 1993, the Immigration Act, in vest-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

ing in the Board of Special Inquiry the authority to determine the question of his citizenship and making its decision when approved by the Secretary of Labor final, is
unconstitutional, in that it deprives him of the right to
a judicial hearing to which he is entitled as due process
under the Constitution; and that it was therefore the
duty of the District Court to proceed, independently of
the Departmental decision, to an adjudication as to his
citizenship. It is clear, however, in the light of the previous decisions of this Court, that when the petitioner, who
had never resided in the United States, presented himself
at its border for admission, the mere fact that he claimed
to be a citizen did not entitle him under the Constitution
to a judicial hearing; and that unless it appeared that
'the Departmental officers to whom Congress had entrusted
the decision of his claim, had denied him an opportunity
to establish his citizenship, at a fair hearing, or acted in
some unlawful or improper way or abused their discretion,
their finding upon the question of citizenship was conclusive and not subject to review, and it was the duty of the
court to dismiss the writ of habeascorpus without proceeding further. United States v. Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 161,
168; United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 263; Chin
Yow v. United States, 208 U. S. 8, 11; Tang Tun v. Edsell,
223 U. S. 673, 675; and Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S.
276, 282.
3. It is also urged in argument, that, apart from the
petitioner's own claim, Quon Mee Sing was independently
entitled to maintain the petition for habeas corpus in enforcement of his right to the custody of a minor child,
and to obtain to that end an adjudication of his kinship
to the petitioner. It suffices to say that no such question
is here presented. The .petition was filed solely in the
right of the petitioner. No right was asserted in behalf of
Quon Mee Sing. No such question appears to have been
presented in the hearing in the District Court; and none
was raised by the assignments of error.

EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 359
352

Syllabus.

The judgment of the District Court must accordingly
be affirmed. But the Court being advised that the appellee, the Commissioner of Immigration, has died since
December 10, 1926, the day on which this case was argued
and submitted, the judgment here will be entered nunc

pro tunc as of that day. Mitchell v. Overman, 103 U. S.

62, 65; Richardson v. Green, 130 U. S. 104, 116; Bell v.
Bell, 181 U. S. 175, 179; Cuebas v. Cuebas, 223 U. S. 376,
390.

Judgment affirmed, nunc pro tunc.
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY OF NEW YORK v.

SOUTHERN PHOTO MATERIALS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR 'THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 6.

Argued November 19, 1925.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. Under § 12 of the Clayton Act, a suit against a corporation for
injuries sustained from violations of the Anti-Trust Act may be
brought in a federal court in any district in which the corporation
transacts business, although neither residing nor "found" there;
and the process may be served in another district in which the
corporation either resides or is "found." P. 370.
2. A corporation is engaged in transacting business in a district, in the
sense of this venue provision, if in fact, in the ordinary and usual
sense, it "transacts business" therein of any substantial character. P. 373.
3. A corporation is none the less engaged in transacting business in a
district, within the meaning of this section, because of the fact that
such business may be entirely interstate in character and be transacted by agents who do not reside within the district. P. 373.
4. Congress may, in the exercise of its legislative discretion, fix the
venue of a civil action in a federal court in one district, and authorize the process to be issued to another district in which the defendant resides or is found. P. 374.
5. A corporation which, in a continuous course of business, was engaged, not only in selling and shipping its goods to dealers within a
certain district, but also in soliciting orders therein through its
salesmen and promoting the demand for its goods through its
demonstrators for the purpose of increasing its sales, was transact-

