MINNESOTA v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
548

561

Syllabus.

intended to be forbidden. The questions here considered
arising from the application of an ad valorem tax are not
affected by the amendment of § 5219 by the Act of March
4, 1923, c. 267, 42 Stat. 1499, which permits in lieu of the
ad valorem tax on shares of national banks either a nondiscriminatory tax on the income of national banks or on
the income derived from their shares.
Judgment reversed.
MINNESOTA v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF ST.
PAUL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

No. 245.

Argued December 13, 1926.-Decided March 21, 1927.

1. The taxation of national bank shares, authorized by Rev. Stats.
§ 5219, is against the holders of the shares and is to be measured
by the value of the shares, and not by the assets of the bank without deducting its liabilities. P. 564.
2. A tax on national bank shares at a greater rate than that imposed
on competing credits in the hands of individuals can not be sustained upon the ground that the discrimination is removed in practice by deducting liabilities of the bank from its assets in valuing
its shares, while allowing no deduction of their liabilities to individuals in valuing their credits. P. 564.
3. The shares of corporations employing capital in the note brokerage
business or in buying and selling securities are "moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens" (R. S. § 5219), i. e., the individuals
holding the shares. P. 566.
4. The competition guarded against by § 5219 may arise from
the employment of capital invested in a business, even though the
competition be with some but not all phases of the business of
national banks, or it may arise from the employment of capital
invested by institutions or individuals in particular operations or
investments like those of national banks. P. 566.
5. The evidence sustains a finding by the state court that moneyed
capital in the hands of individuals was in competition with the
business of national banks, including the plaintiff. P. 567.
42847 °-27-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

6. Surplus capital of individuals seeking investment and reinvestment
in bonds, mortgages, and other evidences of indebtedness, in competition with the capital of national banks, is moneyed capital coming
into competition with the business of national banks, within the
meaning of Rev. Stats. § 5219. P. 568.
164 Minn. 550, affirmed.

CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 550) to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Minnesota which affirmed a judgment
for the bank in an action brought against it by the State
to recover taxes assessed against its shareholders.

Mr. Patrick J. Ryan, with whom Messrs. Clifford L.
Hilton, Attorney General of Minnesota, G. A. Youngquist,
Assistant Attorney General, Harry H. Peterson, and Roy
A. MacDonald were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas D. O'Brien, with whom Messrs. Alexander
E. Horn and Edward S. Stringer were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The State of Minnesota, the petitioner, brought suit
in the district court of Ramsey County, Minnesota, to
recover from the First National Bank of St. Paul, the
respondent, taxes assessed against its shareholders for the
years 1921 and 1922. Respondent resisted the payment
of the tax on the ground that the assessment was at a
higher rate than that on moneyed capital employed in
competition with national banks and hence prohibited by
§ 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United States. The
trial court gave judgment for petitioner. On appeal
judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota and a new trial ordered. 164 Minn. 235. Upon the
second trial, had upon the record of the first, the district
court held that at the time of the assessment of the taxes
in question "a substantial and relatively material portion of the money and credits so listed and assessed in said

MINNESOTA v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
561

563

Opinion of the'Court.

Ramsey County consisted of moneyed capital in the hands
of individual citizens of said county, coming into competition with the business of national banks in said county,
and with the business of said defendant." Judgment in
respondent's favor was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Minnesota, 164 Minn. 251. This Court granted certiorari. 269 U. S. 550; Jud. Code, § 237 (b).
The questions raised are similar to those considered in
First National Bank of Hartford v. City of Hartford,
ante, p. 548, and may be disposed of by the application to
the present facts of the principles there considered.
Under the Minnesota statutes, shares of national banks
and the moneyed capital of banks or mortgage loan companies organized under the laws of the state are assessed
and taxed at forty per cent. of their full value in the
district where located. Gen. Stat. 1923, § 2023; Laws
of 1921, c. 416. Money and credits are taxed at the rate
of three mills on the dollar of their full cash value and
are exempt from all other taxation. Gen. Stat. 1913,
§ 2316; Laws of 1911, c. 285. Mortgages upon real estate
and executory contracts for the sale of real estate are
separately taxed at a lower rate; 15 cents per one hundred
dollars where the period to run is for five years or less,
and 25 cents per one hundred dollars on mortgages and
contracts for a longer period. Gen. Stat. 1913, § 2301,
et seq.; Laws of 1921, c. 445. Money is defined as gold
and silver coin, all forms of currency, and all deposits
subject to withdrawal on demand. Credits include every
demand for money or other valuable thing. Gen. Stat.
1923, § 1980; Laws of 1917, c. 130. Under these statutes
money and credits, as defined, are taxed at the three-mill
rate and mortgages on real estate at a lesser rate.
It appears that the tax assessed upon the shares of
respondent was sixty-seven mills in 1921 and sixty-one
and one-half mills in 1922. Although based upon a forty
per cent. valuation, the actual rate upon the shares was

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

higher than the prescribed tax of three mills per dollar
of full valuation of money and credits and therefore was
discriminatory. Petitioner argues that in its actual operation, the tax on national bank shares is no greater than
the tax on credits, since under the statute individuals are
taxed at the rate of three mills upon the full value of
their credits without deducting their liabilities, whereas
in taxing bank shares, the liabilities of the banks are deducted from their assets in ascertaining the forty per cent.
valuation of their shares. Therefore, it is urged, if bank
shares were taxed at the same rate without deducting the
bank's liabilities in ascertaining the value of their shares,
the amount of the tax would be approximately the same.
This argument ignores the fact that the tax authorized
by § 5219 is against the holders of the bank shares and is
measured by the value of the shares, and not by the assets
of the bank without deduction of its liabilities, Des Moines
National Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103, and that the
bank share tax must be compared with the tax assessed
on competing moneyed capital of individuals invested in
credits, or the tax on capital invested by individuals in
the shares of corporations whose business competes with
that of national banks. Mercantile Bank v. New York,
121 U. S. 138, 156, 157; First National Bank v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 341, 348. Thus compared, the actual tax
imposed upon the shares of respondent, like the tax imposed upon credits in the hands of individuals, is assessed
without deducting the liabilities of their individual owners,
but at different rates. This discrimination is prohibited
by § 5219 if moneyed capital in the hands of individuals
in Minnesota is employed in substantial competition with
national banks within the state.
The evidence shows that there were money and credits
listed for taxation in the entire state during each of the
years in question in excess of $400,000,000, exclusive of
municipal bonds and recorded real estate mortgages, and

MINNESOTA v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK. 565
561

Opinion of the Court.

in Ramsey County alone, where respondent conducts its
banking business, there were like money and credits in
excess of $83,000,000, all of which were subject to the
three-mill tax. The evidence shows that in Ramsey
County there were listed for taxation for 1921 in the hands
of individuals, promissory notes amounting to $2,481,446,
and bonds, exclusive of tax exempt bonds and real estate
mortgages to $7,595,975; for 1922, notes to $1,648,810,
bonds to $9,931,955. There was invested in those years in
real estate mortgages in Minnesota over $185,000,000
annually. The investment of national banks in Minnesota in those years in real estate mortgages was in excess
of $19,000,000; in United States government bonds in
excess of $41,000,000, and in other securities $33,800,000.
The share value of national banks in Minnesota in those
years, not including real estate, was a little more than
$60,000,000, and less than two-thirds of their total investment in the securities mentioned.
Note brokers within the state in thase years made loans
to their customers upon paper which they sell to banks
and other investors, amounting to as much as $100,000,000
annually. Much of this paper is sold outside of the state,
but the amount sold to banks and to individuals within
the state is substantial. One class of this paper known as
"cattle loan paper" exceeded $22,000,000 annually in the
years in question, and of this $13,000,000 was sold to
banks, corporations, firms and individuals in Minnesota.
The amount shown to have been sold to individuals
approximated $1,000,000. Eleven business concerns to
whom respondent made loans, borrowed from their own
officers and employers in one of the years in question
about $1,500,000.
Individuals and corporations using substantial capital
are engaged within the state in business as investment
houses, dealing in bonds and mortgages, such as normally
enter into the business of banking. Two such corpora,

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

tions in Ramsey County had a capital aggregating $2,250,000. One of them sold $13,000,000 of bonds in Minnesota
in 1922, and had sold prior to May 1, 1921, mortgages which
were still outstanding aggregating more than $25,000,000.
Taken as a whole, the evidence tends to show without
material contradiction that there is a large amount of
moneyed capital in the state employed in normal banking
activities such as loans, purchases and sale of notes, bonds
and real estate mortgages, and that large amounts of capital are invested and reinvested in such securities by individual investors within the state.
But petitioner asserts that it does not appear from the
record whether those engaged in the business of note
brokers or in the business of acquiring and selling securities are individuals or corporations, and the amount of
capital employed by any of them is not indicated. While
this assertion is not borne out completely by the record,
in the view we take, its truth is not of controlling consequence. The businesses and activities described could
not be carried on in the volume indicated without the
employment of large amounts of capital and in fact some
corporations engaged in these activities were shown to
have a large capitalization. It was not necessary that the
particular amounts be specified. That capital, if invested
in the business of individuals, is moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens, within the meaning of § 5219.
If invested in corporations, as appears in some instances,
the share capital in the hands of shareholders is likewise
moneyed capital within the meaning of that section.
It is said also that the evidence as to individuals was
that large amounts of credits, including bonds, mortgages
and notes were acquired by individuals by loan or purchase in the state and county, but that there is no evidence
tending to show that any of these securities were held or
employed by individals in banking or investment business

MINNESOTA v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
561

567

Opinion of the Court.

or in any other business. But as we have held in First
National Bank of Hartford v. City of Hartford,the competition guarded against by § 5219 may arise either from
the employment of capital invested in a business, even
though the competition be with some but not all phases
of the business of national banks, or it may arie from the
employment of capital invested by institutions or individuals in particular operations or investments like those
of national banks.
It is also urged that the record does not admit of a finding that the funds invested in these credits come into competition with national banks within the meaning of § 5219.
To this it is answered by respondent that the court is
required to take judicial notice of general conditions to
which the law applies and that the taxing laws of Minnesota construed in the light of conditions generally known,
show upon their face that they create a discrimination
against national banks not permitted by the federal act.
But it is unnecessary for us to enter upon the field of
judicial notice, for it clearly appears from the evidence,
as the court below found, that a large proportion of these
investments consisted of investments of individuals out of
surplus funds which they were investing and reinvesting
in bonds, mortgages and other evidences of indebtedness
and that these transactions or continued activities are such
as normally constitute an important part of the business
of banking as conducted by respondent and other national
banks in Minnesota. There is direct evidence, also, that
the investments of individuals in this type of security
aggregating large amounts lessens the opportunity for the
investment of capital by national banks. The only witness called by petitioner admitted that to some extent
such competition existed. In this state of the record we
think the findings of the state court are supported by the
evidence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
273 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

That capital of individuals thus seeking investment and
reinvestment in competition with the capital in national
banks is moneyed capital coming into competition with
the business of national banks within the meaning of
§ 5219 is the effect of our decision in FirstNational Bank
of Hartford v. City of Hartford, supra, and other cases
there considered.
Judgment affirmed.
GEORGETOWN NATIONAL BANK v. McFARLAND
ET AL.
ERROR

TO

THE

COURT

OF APPEALS
KENTUCKY.

OF THE

STATE

OF

No. 78. Argued December 13, 1926.-Decided March 21, 1927.
Upon the question of fact whether capital invested by individuals in
bonds and other securities, was so invested as to come in competition with national banks (Rev. Stats. § 5219), this Court will
accept the negative finding of the state court, where the evidence
is in some particulars conflicting and the finding is supported by
evidence and not certainly against the weight of evidence. P. 570.
So held where the evidence fell short of establishing that the
capital was employed substantially as in the loan and investment
features of banking in making investments by way of loan or discount or in notes, bonds, and other securities, with a view to sale
or repayment and reinvestment.
208 Ky. 7, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky which reversed a judgment for the plaintiff in a
suit to enjoin the sheriff and other taxing officials of Scott
County, Kentucky, from assessing or collecting taxes on
the shares of the Bank.
Mr. T. Kennedy Helm, with whom Messrs. J. Craig
Bradley, Edmund F. Trabue, Victor A. Bradley, James

