OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

employes, and while the difference between it and the Berdan
device is slight, and Berdan was the prior inventor, yet it
is not unreasonable to take into consideration this slight
difference between the two structures, and that the government constantly held to the specific device invented by itsown employe. The question is not whether, from the other
facts stated in the findings, we should have reached the same
conclusion as the Court of Claims, but whether, from such
other facts, we can see that that court erred. We are not
prepared so to hold.
These are the only questions present9d in this record, and,
finding no error in them, the judgment of the Court of
Claims is
Afflrmed.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

took no part in the decision of these

cases.

CORINNE

MILL

CANAL AND STOCK
v. JOHNSON

COMPANY

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 216. Argued January 31, 1895. -Decided

March 4,1895.

In an action to recover possession of land in Utah the plaintiff set up that
it was part of a grant to a railroad company under which he claimed.
In the statute making the grant there were exceptions and reservations.
The plaintiff failed to show that the tract he claimed was not within
them. The trial court ruled that he had failed to show title, and its
ruling was upheld by the Supreme Court of the Territory. Held, that
this was not error.

THIS was an action brought by the plaintiff in error, plaintiff below, in the District Court of the First Judicial District
of Utah to recover possession of certain real estate. A trial
before the court and a jury resulted in a verdict and judgment
for defendant, which judgment was on appeal affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the Territory 7 Utah, 327.

CORINNE CO. v. JOHNSON.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

The contention of plaintiff was that the lands were within
the grant made by the acts of Congress of July 1, 1862, (12
Stat. 489,) and July 2, 1864:, (13 Stat. 356,) to aid in the construction of a railroad from the Missour River to the Pacific
Ocean, and that by virtue of the admitted completion of the
road the title to them had passed to the Central Pacific Railroad Company, under whom it claimed. The statement on
motion for a new trial and appeal, signed by the trial judge,
which is substantially the equivalent of a bill of exceptions,
does not contain any patent from the government for the
lands, nor does it purport to contain all the testimony offered
on the trial. The trial court in its instructions to the jury
expressed the opinion that the plaintiff had failed to prove
any title, but, while expressing such opinion, submitted to
them the question of the statute of limitations. The views
of the Supreme Court of the Territory are summed up in
these two paragraphs
"In this case no evidence having been offered that the railroad ever obtained a patent for the lands in dispute, nor that
it filed its map showing its line as definitely located within
the time provided by the law, nor any proof as to the time
when said railroad was completed, nor that the lands were
not within any of the exceptions or reservations provided in
the statute, we think plaintiff failed to show its title, and that
there was no error in the instruction given by the court to the
jury
"The trial court submitted to the jury the issue of the
statute of limitations raised in defendant's answer, and this is
assigned as error, upon the ground that there was no evidence
tending to support this issue. We have examined the evidence contained in the record, and while it does not purport
to contain all the evidence in the case, yet from the evidence
set out in the printed transcript we think no error was committed in this respect, -andthe judgment of the District Court
is affirmed."
Ab' J X Wilson for plaintiff in error. .Mr .WF Bennett
and .Ab. John A. .arshall filed a brief for same.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr 0 B. Hallam for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTiCE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The grant to the railroad company was not of all the odd-numbered sections within twenty miles of its line of definite location, but of those sections subject to certain exceptions. Proof
that the road had been located and completed and that the
tracts claimed were odd-numbered sections within the twentymile limit, was not sufficient to establish title in the company
The evidence must go further, and the burden was on the
plaintiff to show that they were not of the lands excepted.
.Maxwell .and Grant Co. v Dawson, 151 U S. 586.
Now the defect m this record which is fatal to the case of
the plaintiff in error is that nowhere is it shown that all the
testimony received on the trial is preserved. Under such circumstances we are not at liberty to assume that there was in
evidence a patent, or other instrument of itself working a
transfer of the legal title from the government to the railroad
company, or evidence of any character removing all doubt as
to the matter of exceptions, nor, on the other hand, that there
was not testimony which conclusively established the existence
of some one or more of those exceptions.
Take for illustration the question whether these were mineral lands. The grant in terms excepted such lands from its
operation. There was no evidence of any adjudication by the
Land Department, either through the issue of a patent or
otherwise, that they were non-mineral lands. Barden v
154 U S. 288. While there
_
N-orthern Pacfc Railroad,
was on the part of the plaintiff some testimony of a general
character tending to show that the lands were grazing lands,
and that no mineral had ever been discovered in them, yet
for aught that appears, there may have been overwhelming
evidence that mines had in fact been opened and worked in
them, or that there had been an express adjudication by the
Land Department that they were mineral lands and excepted
from the grant. And so of other exceptions.

PITTSBURG &c. COAL CO. v. BATES.
Statement of the Case.

The presumptions are all in favor of the rulings of the trial
court. And before it can be adjudged that it erred in instructing that the plaintiff had failed in its proof of title, the

record must affirmatively show that the title was in fact
proved, and that, as we have seen, includes proof that the
lands were not within the exceptions named in the statute.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, whose judgment we
are reviewing, did not err in refusing upon such a record to
disturb the decision of the trial court that the plaintiff had
not established its title to the land. The judgment is, there-

fore,
__________

fwimed.

PITTSBURG AND SOUTHERN COAL COMPANY v.
BATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 3. Argued January 10, 11, 1895.-Decided March 4,1895.
Coal, shipped by the owners at Pittsburg in their own barges to Baton
Rouge for the purpose of being sold there or sent thence to supply
orders, and moored at Baton Rouge in the original barges in which it
was shipped at Pittsburg, is subject to local taxation there as a stock in
trade, and such imposition of a tax violates no provision of the Constitution of the United States.
Brown v. Hoitston, 114 U. S., 622, afflrmed and applied to tins case.

THE Pittsburg and Southern Coal Company, a corporation
organized under the laws of Pennsylvania and domiciled in
the city of Pittsburg, Pennsylvama, and a citizen of that
State, filed its petition in the Seventeenth Judicial District
Court of the parish of East Baton Rouge, Louisiana, alleging
that the petitioner was and had been for some time engaged
m the business of buying and selling coal from the mines in
Pennsylvania upon the Mississippi River and other navigable
rivers of the country
That it was the owner of a large number of vessels and
barges which it had bought with cargoes of coal, and was
VOL. CLVI-37

