OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

that when he fails, even by reason of his poverty to do that
which the law prescribes as the initiation of any rights in
the land, he is nevertheless entitled to the same protection
which he would receive had he complied with the statute.
Leniently as the conduct of a settler is always regarded by
the courts, it cannot be that such leniency will tolerate the
omission by him of any of the substantial requirements of
the statute in respect to the creation of rights in the public lands.
There was no error in the conclusions of the Supreme
Court of the State, and its judgment is, therefore,
Affir~ned.

MR. JusTicE GRAY was not present at the argument and took
no part in the decision of this case.

WOOD v. BEACH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 143. Argued January 10, 1895.-

Decided March 4, 1895.

In 1870 W entered upon public land within the indemnity limits of a railway grant, occupied it, and continued to do so. It had then been withdrawn from the market by the Secretary of the Interior under instructions
from Congress, and was eventually selected by the railroad company as
part of its grant. Held, that W acquired no equitable rights, as against
the railroad company, by his occupation and settlement.

THIS case resembles those immediately preceding in that
the plaintiff, now defendant in error, claiming title to a certain tract by deed from the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, brought his action in the District Court of
Allen County, Kansas, to recover possession of the land.
Judgment was rendered in his favor in that court, which
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State,
and from that court the case has been brought here on a writ
of error.

WOOD v. BEACH.
Opmion of the Court.

Nir William Lawrence for plaintiff in error.
XP A. B. Browne, (with whom were 3tr A. T. Britton
and 3Mr George B. Peck,) for defendant m error.
MR.

JusTIo,

BF.wir delivered the opinion of the court.

The land in controversy is in an odd-numbered section, and
within the indemnity limits of the Leavenworth, Lawrence
and Galveston Railroad, and also within the like limits of the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway The tract was selected,
certified to the State, and by it patented to the railway company The selection was made on August 8, 1872, and approved April 10, 1872, and the deed from the State was on
May 9, 1873. Within the decision in Kansas City, Lawrence
c. Railroad v The Attorney General, 118 U. S. 682, the
legal title passed to the railway company Mary E. Wood,
the defendant, is the widow of C. B. Wood, who during his
lifetime moved upon the land with his family, and sought to
enter it as a homestead. But his occupation and settlement,
as appears from the agreed statement of facts, commenced on
June 8, 1870, and while this was prior to the selection by the
railroad companies, the land had years before been withdrawn
from sale or location, preemption or homestead entries. Two
orders of withdrawal were made by the Department of the
Interior- one on March 19, 1867, for the benefit of the
Leavenworth, Lawrence and Galveston Railroad Company,
and the other on April 30, 1867, for the Missouri, Kansas
and Texas Railway Company These orders of withdrawal
were received at the local land office on April 3, 1867, and
May 10, 1867, respectively When Mr. Wood made application to file upon the land he was informed that the land had
been withdrawn, and his application was, rejected. If those
withdrawals were valid, no rights, legal or equitable, were
acquired by his occupation and settlement.
It was said in Volsey v. Vhapman, 101 U. S. 755, 768
"The proper executive department of the government had
determined that, because of doubts about the extent and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

operation of that act, nothing should be done to impair the
rights of the State above the Raccoon Fork until the differences were settled, either by Congress or judicial decision.
For that purpose an authoritative order was issued, directing
the local land officers to withhold all the disputed lands from
sale. This withdrew the lands from private entry, and, as we
held in Riley v lVells, was sufficient to defeat a settlement
for the purpose of pre~mption while the order was in force,
notwithstanding it was afterwards found that the law, by
reason of which this action was taken, did not contemplate
such a withdrawal."
This has been and is the settled rule of the courts and the
Land Department. Itis only a recognition of the limitations
prescribed in the statutes, for, by Rev Stat. ยง 2258, "lands
included in any reservation by any treaty, law, or proclamation of the President, for any purpose" are expressly declared
to be not subject to the rights of premption, and ยง 2289, the
one giving the right to enter for a homestead, limits that
right to "unappropriated public lands-" The fact that the
withdrawals were made by order of the Interior Department,
and not by proclamation of the President, is immaterial.
"A proclamation by the President reserving lands from sale
is his official public announcement of an order to that effect.
No particular form of such an announcement is necessary
It is sufficient if it has such publicity as accomplishes the end
to be attained. If the President himself had signed the order
in this case, and sent it to the registers and receivers who
were to act under it, as notice to them of what they were to
do in respect to the sales of the public lands, we cannot doubt
that the lands would have been reserved by proclamation
within the meaning of the statute. Such being the case, it
follows necessarily from the decision in Wilcox v Jackson that
such an order sent out from the appropriate executive department in the regular course of business is the legal equivalent
of the President's own order to the same effect. It was, therefore, as we think, such a proclamation by the President reserving the lands from sale as was contemplated by the act."
These withdrawals were not merely executive acts, but the

WOOD v. BEACH.
Opinion of the Court.

latter one at least was in obedience to the direct command of
Congress. Section 4 of the act granting lands to aid in the
construction of what is now known as the Missouri, Kansas
and Texas Railway Act of July 26, 1866, c. 270, ยง 4, 14 Stat.
290, is as follows.
"S1Sc. 4. And be it further enacted, That as soon as said
company shall file with the Secretary of the Interior maps of
its line, designating the route thereof, it shall be the duty of
said Secretary to withdraw from the market the lands granted
by this act in such manner as may be best calculated to effect
the purposes of this act and subserve the public interest."
The map of the line of definite location called for by this
section was filed on December 6, 1866, and the withdrawal
followed in the succeeding spring.
Upon these admitted facts it is clear that Mr. Wood acquired no equitable rights by his occupation and settlement.
He went upon lands which were not open to homestead or
prefmption entry, and cannot make his unauthorized occupation the foundation of an equitable title. He was not acting
in ignorance, but was fully informed both as to the fact and
the law He deliberately took the chances of the railway
company's grant, being satisfied out of lands within the place
limits, or by selections of lands within the indemnity limits
other than this, and trusted that in such event this tract would
be restored to the public domain and he gain some advantage
by reason of being already on the land. But the event he
hoped for never happened. The party for whose benefit the
withdrawal was made complied with all the conditions of title
and took the land.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State was correct,
and it is
Afflrmed.
MiR. JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

