INRE CHAPMAN, Petitioner.
Syllabus.

owned and had located in the streets of Baltimore similar
poles and similarly used. Judgment below m plaintiff's favor,
which judgment was sustained by the Court of Appeals of the
State of Maryland. A writ of error being sued out to the latter
judgment, the defendant in error moved to dismiss or affirm
it on the ground, among others, that "the ordinance in
question was based on and passed after the opinion of the
Supreme Court of the United States was delivered in St. Iouzs
v. Western Unzon Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92 and 149 U. S. 465, and
upon the strength of that case the defendant in error relied
m the Court of Appeals of Maryland, and now relies in this
court."
.r

Thomas G Hayes and Mr William S. B yan, J.,for

the motion.
3Xr George T.Bates opposing.
THE Cmx'F JusTICE

The judgment is affirmed upon the

authority of St. Louw v. Western Unwn Tel. Co., 148
U. S. 92.

In re CHAPMAN, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted January22, 1895. -Decided

February 4, 1895.

C., being summoned before a committee of the Senate of the United States
and questioned there as to certain transactions, declined to answer the
questions upon the grounds that they related to his private business,
and that they were not authorized by the resolution appointing the committee. He was thereupon indicted in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia under the provisions in Rev. Stat. §§ 102, 103, 104. He
demurred to the indictment, and, the demurrer being overruled, an appeal
was taken to the District Court of Appeals, where the indictment was
sustained as valid, and the case remanded. He then applied to this court
for permission to file a petition for the issue of a writ of habeas corpus.
Held,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
(1) That the orderly administration of justice will be better subserved
by declining to exercise appellate jurisdiction in the mode desired
until the conclusion of the proceedings;
(2) That if the judgment goes against the petitioner and a writ of error
lies, that is his proper and better remedy,
(3) That if a writ of error does not lie, and the Supreme Court of the
District is without jurisdiction, the petitioner may then apply
for a writ of habeas corpus.
It is a judicious and salutary general rule not to interfere with proceedings
pending in the Courts of the District of Columbia, or in the Circuit
Courts of the United States, in advance of their final determination.

THIS was an application by Elverton R. Chapman for leave
to file a petition for the writ of habeas coirpus. Petitioner
represented that he was unlawfully restrained of his liberty
by the United States marshal for the District of Columbia,
and stated That on June 29. 1894, an indictment was returned
against petitioner in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, holding a criminal term, based upon section 102
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, upon which he
voluntarily surrendered himself into the custody of the court,
July 2, 1894, and entered into a recognizance for his appearance as he might thereunto be required, and thereupon petitioner filed a demurrer to the indictment, that October 1, 1894,
another indictment was found against petitioner under said
section, which indictment was returned as a substitute for and
in lieu of the former indictment, and a certified copy whereof
was annexed to the petition.
The indictment averred that Chapman was summoned and
appeared as a witness before a special committee of the Senate
of the United States in relation to a matter of inquiry before
said committee, and that he refused to answer questions pertinent to the matter of inquiry referred to such committee.
The petition then alleged that petitioner, on October 11,
1894, filed his demurrer to the last named indictment, together
with a note appended thereto stating the grounds of the demurrer, that November 17, 1894, the demurrer was overruled
and petitioner required to appear and plead, that afterwards
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia allowed an
appeal from the order of the Supreme Court overruling the

IN

RE CHAPMAN,

Petitioner.

Statement of the Case.

demurrer, and on December 14, 1894, the matter was duly
submitted to the Court of Appeals and taken under advisement, that on January 7, 1895, the Court of Appeals gave
judgment, affirming the order of the Supreme Court overruling
the demurrer and requiring petitioner to plead to the indictment, and the cause was remanded by the Court of Appeals
to the Supreme Court to be proceeded in, and is now duly
pending in, the last named court.
The petition further stated that, on January 18, 1895, petitioner was surrendered upon his recogmzance and committed
to the custody of the United States marshal for the District
of Columbia, and petitioner charged that his detention was
unlawful because in violation of the laws and Constitution of
the United States and for want of jurisdiction in the court to
make the order of imprisonment.
It was averred that the questions and each of them set forth
in the indictment, and which petitioner declined to answer,
were questions in regard to the lawful private business of
petitioner which he was not bound to answer, and was protected from answering by provisions of the Constitution and
laws of the United States, and were questions not authorized
by the resolution of the Senate upon which the investigating
committee rested its authority, that the conditions under
which the questions were asked were not such as authorized
the committee to make search into the private affairs of
petitioner, nor were they such as authorized or permitted the
Senate to demand or compel answers to questions which
would disclose the private business of petitioner, that the
refusal of petitioner to answer the questions was not a misdemeanor within the true intent and meaning of section 102 of
the Revised Statutes., that that section was unconstitutional
and void in that it attempted to transfer the power to punish
acts constituting contempt of the Houses of Congress, respectively, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the criminal court of the
District of Columbia, that if the section was not designed to
transfer such jurisdiction to the criminal court, but was designed to add to the power of both Houses to punish for contempt, the power and jurisdiction in the criminal court to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

punish the same acts as misdemeanors, then the section was
void because in contravention of the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution, that sections 102 and 103 of the Revised Statutes were to be taken together as parts of a single and indivisible scheme, and the provisions of section 102 could not be
enforced in disregard of the provisions of section 103 consistently with the intention of Congress, and if section 103 was
not capable of being executed because unconstitutional, then
section 102 could not be executed, that section 103 was unconstitutional because compelling involuntary answers to questions
put by committees of either House of Congress, although the
witness might decline to answer on the ground that his testimony or his production of papers might tend to disgrace him
or otherwise render him infamous, and that upon these and
other grounds petitioner's imprisonment was without any
authority of law and in excess of the jurisdiction of the court.
Sections 102, 103, and 104 of the Revised Statutes are as
follows
"SEc. 102. Every person who, having been summoned as a
witness by the authority of either House of Congress, to give
testimony or to produce papers upon any matter under inquiry
before either House, or any committee of either House of
Congress, wilfully makes default, or who, having appeared,
refuses to answer any question pertinent to the question
under inquiry, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
nor less than one hundred dollars, and imprisonment in a
common jail for not less than one month nor more than
twelve months.
"SEc. 103. No witness is privileged to refuse to testify to
any fact, or to produce any paper, respecting which he shall
be examined by either House of Congress, or by any committee of either House, upon the ground that his testimony
to such fact or his production of such paper may tend to disgrace him or otherwise render him infamous.
"SEC. 104. Whenever a witness summoned as mentioned
in section one hundred and two fails to testify, and the facts
are reported to either House, the President of the Senate or

IN RE CHAPMAN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

the Speaker of the House, as the case may be, shall certify
the fact under the seal of the Senate or House to the district
attorney for the District of Columbia, whose duty it shall be
to bring the matter before the grand jury for their action."
The Court of Appeals held that section 102 was constitutional and valid, that the inquiry directed by the resolution
of May 17, 1894, was within the power of the Senate to
execute by requiring witnesses to testify, and that the questions propounded to Chapman were pertinent to the subjectmatter given in charge to the committee, and was of opinion
that the indictment was good and sufficient. 23 Wash. Law
IRep. 17.
.Mr Samuel Shellabarger, .Mr Jeremuah .3
.Mr George F Edmunds for the petitioner.

Wilson and

-Mr Solicitor General opposing.
MR. CmEF JUsTIE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The general rule is that the writ of habeas corpus will not
issue unless the court, under whose warrant the petitioner is
held, is without jurisdiction, and that it cannot be used to
correct errors. Ex parte TFatk's, 3 Pet. 197, Ex parte
Pars, 93 U. S. 18, Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, Eai
parte Bigelow, 113 U. S. 328, Inre Coy, 127 U S. 731, 756,
In 're Schnezder, Petitwner, 148 U. S. 162. Ordinarily the
writ will not lie where there is a remedy by writ of error or
appeal, I PreFredertck, Petitwner, 149 U S. 70, In re
Tyler, 149 U S.164, 180, In re Swan, 150 U. S. 637, 648,
yet in rare and exceptional cases it may be issued although
such remedy exists. Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, New
York v. Eno, 155 U S.89.
We have heretofore decided that this court has no appellate
jurisdiction over the judgments of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia in criminal cases or on habeas corpus.
In re Heath, Petitioner,144 U S.92, Cross v Vnited States,

OCTOBER TERIMY,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

145 U S. 571, Cross v Burke, 146 U. S. 82. But it is contended that under section 8 of the act of February 9, 1893, 27
Stat. 434, c. 74, establishing a Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia, the judgments of the Supreme Court of the District reviewable in the Court of Appeals may be reviewed ultiinately in this court even in criminal cases, where the validity
of a statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United
States is drawn in question. We do not feel constrained,
however, to determine how this may be, as we are of opinion
that the application must be denied on another ground.
In AHew York v Eno, 155 U S. 89, the circumstances under
which a court of the United States should, upon habeas corpus,
discharge one held in custody under the process of a state court
were considered, as they had previously been in Ex parte
Royall, 117 U. S. 241, and the views expressed in the latter
case reiterated with approval. It was held that Congress intended to invest the courts of the Union and the justices and
judges thereof with power upon writ of habeas coipus to
restore to liberty any person within their respective jurisdictions held in custody, by whatever authority, in violation of
the Constitution or any law or treaty of the United States,
that the statute contemplated that cases might arise when the
power thus conferred should be exercised during the progress
of proceedings instituted in a state court against a prisoner
on account of the very matter presented for determination by
the writ of habeas corpus, but that the statute did not imperatively require the Circuit Court by that writ to wrest the
prisoner from the custody of the state officers in advance of
his trial in the state court, and that while the Circuit Court
had the power to do so and could discharge the accused in advance of his trial, it was not bound in every case to exercise
such power immediately upon application being made for the
writ. The conclusion was that, in a proper exercise of discretion, the Circuit Court should not discharge the petitioner
until the state court had finally acted upon the case, when
it could be determined whether the accused, if convicted,
should be put to his writ of error, or the question determined
on habeas corpus whether he was restrained of his liberty in

IN RE CHAPAMAN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

violation of the Constitution of the United States. These
principles were fully discussed in the cases of the appeals of
Royall from judgments on habeas corpus of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia,
117 U S. 241, and in addition thereto Royall made an origrnal application to this court for a writ of habeas corpus,
which was denied upon the grounds stated in the previous
cases. Exeparte Royall, 117 U. S. 254.
It must be admitted that special reasons of great weight
exist why this should be the rule in respect of proceedings in
a state court which are not applicable to cases in the courts
of the United States. Nevertheless we regard it as a judicious and salutary general rule not to interfere with proceedings pending in the courts of the District of Columbia or in
the Circuit Courts in advance of their final determination.
In FE parte .Mirzan, 119 U. S. 584, it was decided that this
court would not issue a writ of habeas co pus, even if it had
the power, in cases where it might as well be done in the
proper Circuit Court, if there were no special circumstances
in the case making direct action or intervention by this court
necessary or expedient. And in In re Huntfngton-, 137 U S.
63, we applied that rule in the case of a person claiming to be
detained by a United States marshal for the Southern District
of New York, by virtue of an order purporting to be an order of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Colorado. In In re lancaster,137 U. S. 393, it was held
that this court would not interfere where petitioners had been
indicted in a Circuit Court of the United States and taken
into custody, but had not invoked the action of the Circuit
Court upon the sufficiency of the indictment by a motion to
quash or otherwise, although the contention was that the
matters and things set forth and charged in the indictment
did not constitute any offence or offences under the laws of
the United States or cognizable in the Circuit Court.
In the case before us, the question as to the jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia has. indeed already been passed upon by that court and also by the Court
of Appeals, upon a demurrer to the indictment, but the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

has not gone to final judgment in either court, and what the
result of a trial may be cannot be assumed. We are impressed
with the conviction that the orderly administration of justice
will be better subserved by our declining to exercise appellate
jurisdiction in the mode desired until the conclusion of the
proceedings. If judgment goes against petitioner and is affirmed by the Court of Appeals and a writ of error lies, that
is the proper and better remedy for any cause of complaint he
may have. If, on the other hand, a writ of error does not lie
to this court, and the Supreme Court of the District was absolutely without jurisdiction, the petitioner may then seek his
remedy through application for a writ of ha'eas corpus. We
discover no exceptional circumstances which demand our interposition in advance of adjudication by the courts of the
District upon the merits of the case before them.
e1ave denmed.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.
In re SCHRIVER, Petitioner.
cided February 4, 1895.

Submitted January 22, 1895.

De-

THE CHIEF JUSTICE This is an application for leave to file a
petition for habeas coilpus differing in no material respect from that
just considered, and, for the reasons there given, it is denied.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.
Mr A.

. Dittenhoeffer for the petitioner.

McGAIIAN v. BANK OF RONDOUT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 104. Argued December 12, 1894. -Decided

February 4, 1895.

In a suit of equity to enforce the rights of a mortgagee in mortgaged
realty, the defence that the temporary withholding of the mortgage from
record invalidated it as against creditors cannot be made in the first

