OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

to bear the consequences of the error. But -here a rightful
application was wrongfully rejected. This was not a matter
of advice but of decision. Doubtless the error could have been
corrected by an appeal, an-a perhaps that would have been the
better way, but when, instead of pursuig that remedy, he is
persuaded by the local land officer that he can accomplish
that which he desires in another way - a way that to him
seems simpler and easier - it would be putting too much of
rigor and technicality into a remedial and beneficial statute
like the homestead law to hold that the equitable rights which
he had acquired by his application were absolutely lost.
For these reasons we are of opinion that there was error in
the conclusion of the Supreme Court of, the State of Kansas,
and the judgments in these two cNse-are,
Reversed for ,farther proceedings m accordance wzth the
mews herezn expressed.
IR. JUSTIcE GRAY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of these cases.

MADDOX v. BURNHAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF 3KANSAS.
No. 144. Argued January 10, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

In the year 1866 the mere occupation of public land, with a purpose at some
subsequent time of entering it for a homestead, gave the party so occupying no rights.

THIs case resembles the preceding in so far as the legal

title is concerned. The.action was commenced in the District
Court of Allen County, Kansas, by a grantee from the railway company In that court judgment was rendered in
favor of the defendant, which judgment was afterwards

MADDOX v. BURNHA.
Opinion of the Court.

reversed by the Supreme Court of the State, and judgment
ordered in favor of the plaintiff for the possession of the land
in controversy
XM

'WilliamLawrence for plaintiff in error:

Mr A. B. Browne, (with whom were MX A. T Britton
and Mr George 1. Peck on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE BuEWER delivered the opinion of the court.
The only thing distinguishing this case from the preceding
and calling for any comment is the equitable claim which the
defendant presents. It appears from the testimony that the
defendant moved upon the land in October, 1866, but made
no attempt to enter it as a homestead until the succeeding
spring, and after the withdrawals had been ordered by the
Secretary of the Interior. In support of his claim the defendant called as a witness his father-in-law, who, after stating
that defendant and himself went upon the tracts, on which
they still resided, somewhere about the 20th of October, 1866,
testified as follows
"We drove on to the land on Saturday evening, and on
:Monday morning I took a horse and went to Humboldt to
the land office to see if we could have permission for Maddox
and me both - I went for both of us -

to get these pieces of

land and put up our houses and live in them till the next
spring, and then we would make our homestead, and he gave
us the permission to do so. He said that he had given others
permission to do so. I told him that we were scarce as to
money then, but that we would have some money ii the spring
and then we wanted to make our homestead."
He further said that under this permission they occupied
the lands and made improvements, that when they went in
the succeeding spring for the purpose of making their homestead entries, they were told that the lands had been withdrawn. On cross-examination he was asked this question
"Q. The first time that you went there you did not offer to
VOL. CLVI-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

file your homestead, but simply to inquire about it?" and
answered it in the affirmative. The defendant himself, on
cross-examination, gave this testimony
"Q. Why did you not make the homestead entry when
you first went there in the fall 2
"A. Well, sir, the reason is this We did not have money
enough to do it, and we were in a new country and a strange
country and we did not know whether we would get anything
to do.
"Q. Do you remember how much money you had at the
time 2
"A. About thirteen dollars - both of us - between us."
Upon these facts he insists that his equitable rights antedated the withdrawals, and are superior to the legal title.
This claim of the defendant cannot be sustained. At the
time of these transactions the mere occupation of land with a
purpose at some subsequent time of entering it for a homestead gave to the party so entering no rights. The law in
force (12 Stat. 392, c. 75) made thie entry at the land office
the initial fact. See. 1 authorized any one possessed of the
prescribed qualifications "to enter one quarter section, or
a less quantity, of unappropriated public lands." Sec. 2
provided that the person applying should, upon his application, make affidavit, among other things, "that such application is made for his or her exclusive use and benefit, and
that said entry is made for the purpose of actual settlement
and upon filing the said affidavit with
and cultivation,
the register or receiver, and on payment of ten dollars, he
or she shall thereupon be permitted to enter the quantity
of lands specified." So the law stood until May 14, 1880,
21 Stat. 141, c. 89, when an act was passed, the third section of which is as follows
"SEc. 3. That any settler who has settled, or who shall
hereafter settle, on any of the public lands of the United States,
whether surveyed or unsurveyed, with the intention of claiming the same under the homestead laws, shall be allowed
the same time to file his homestead application and perfect
his original entry in the United States land office, as is now

MADDOX v. BURNHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

allowed to settlers under the pre~mption laws to put their
claims on record, and his right shall relate' back to the date
of settlement, the same as if he settled under the pre~mption laws."
By this section for the first time the right of a party
entering land under the homestead law was made to relate
back to the time of his settlement. But this act was passed
long after the rights of the railway company had accrued
and the legal title had passed to it. It is not operative,
therefore, to divest such legal title, or enlarge as against
such title any equitable rights which the defendant theretofore had. They must be determined by the law as it stood
at the time he made his entry, or at least prior to the time
that the title passed to the railway company Now, from
his own testimony, while he moved on the land in October,
1866, he made no application to enter it until after the lands
had been withdrawn. It is true that he claims that he had
permission from the register of the land office to go upon
the land and occupy it, but the register had no power to
give such permission, he had no general control over the
unappropriated public lands, he could vest no rights, legal
or equitable, in any individual other than such as are authorized by statute. His authority was limited to receiving
and acting upon applications for homestead or preemption
entry, and it cannot be that any such unauthorized permission of a local land officer can create a right not given by
the statute. or defeat a title conveyed by the government
in full compliance with the law This is not like the cases
just decided in which the local land officer refused to receive
an application which he ought to have received, neither is it
one in which such officer failed to do anything which lie
ought to have done. No application was made for an entry
The excuse tendered is that he was not possessed of sufficient
money to pay the required fees, the father-in-law and the
son-in-law had but thirteen dollars between them, and twenty
dollars was the amount necessary for the entry of the two
homesteads, but unfortunate as the defendant's situation then
was, much as he may be entitled to sympathy, it cannot be

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

that when he fails, even by reason of his poverty to do that
which the law prescribes as the initiation of any rights in
the land, he is nevertheless entitled to the same protection
which he would receive had he complied with the statute.
Leniently as the conduct of a settler is always regarded by
the courts, it cannot be that such leniency will tolerate the
omission by him of any of the substantial requirements of
the statute in respect to the creation of rights in the public lands.
There was no error in the conclusions of the Supreme
Court of the State, and its judgment is, therefore,
Affir~ned.

MR. JusTicE GRAY was not present at the argument and took
no part in the decision of this case.

WOOD v. BEACH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 143. Argued January 10, 1895.-

Decided March 4, 1895.

In 1870 W entered upon public land within the indemnity limits of a railway grant, occupied it, and continued to do so. It had then been withdrawn from the market by the Secretary of the Interior under instructions
from Congress, and was eventually selected by the railroad company as
part of its grant. Held, that W acquired no equitable rights, as against
the railroad company, by his occupation and settlement.

THIS case resembles those immediately preceding in that
the plaintiff, now defendant in error, claiming title to a certain tract by deed from the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, brought his action in the District Court of
Allen County, Kansas, to recover possession of the land.
Judgment was rendered in his favor in that court, which
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State,
and from that court the case has been brought here on a writ
of error.

