OCTOBER TERVI, 1894.
Syllabus.

word be applicable to such small articles as tools of trade or
t he ordinary implements of husbandry The fact that the
further process, which the articles specified in this case underwent, represented but three or four per cent of the total labor
.expended upon them, is by no means decisive, when it is a question of classification, since the very object of Congress may
,have been to protect the additional labor. The lines between
,different articles enumerated in the tariff law are sometimes
very nicely drawn, and a trifling amount of labor is often
:sufficient to change the nature of the article, and determine
its classification. Thus in Worthtngton v _-obb,&ns, 139 U S.
.337, the merchandise imported was known as "white hard.
.enamel," and was used for various purposes, including the
making of faces or surfaces of watch dials, scale columns of
thermometers, faces or surfaces of steam-gauge dials, and for
.other purposes where a smooth or enamelled surface was desired. The articles were claimed by the collector to be
.dutiable as "watch materials," but as it was shown that their
form and condition would have to be changed by grinding or
-pulverizing, they were held to be dutiable as non-enumerated
manufactures.
The articles in question were properly classified by the
-collector, and the judgment of the court below must therefore be
Reversed and the ease remandedfor a new tnal.

GRIMM v. UNITED STATES.
EiRROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 424. Argued and submitted January 23, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

While the possession of obscene, lewd, or lascivious books, pictures, etc.,
constitutes no offence under the act of September 26, 1888, c. 1039, 25
Stat. 496, it is proper in an indictment for committing the offence pro-

GRITOM

v. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the Case.
hibited by that act to allege the possession as a statement, tending tointerpret a letter written and posted in violation of that act.
A letter, however innocent on its face, intended to convey information in,
respect of the place or person where or of whom the objectionable
matters described in the act could be obtained, is within the statute.
In an indictment for a violation of that act it is sufficient to allege that thepictures, papers, and prints were obscene, lewd, and lascivious, without incorporating them into the indictment, or giving a full description of them.
When a government detective, suspecting that a person is engaged in a.
business offensive to good morals, seeks information under an assumed,
name directly from him, and that person responding thereto, violates a
law of the United States by using the mails to convey such information,.
he cannot, when indicted for that offence, set up that he would not have
violated the law, if the inquiry had not been made of him by the gov-ernment official.

SEcTIoN 3893, Revised Statutes, as amended by section 2 of
the act of Congress of September 26, 1888, c. 1039, 25 Star496, provides that "every obscene, lewd, or lascivious book,.
pamphlet, picture,
and every written or printed card,.
letter,
giving information, directly or indirectly, whereor how, or of whom, or by what means any of the hereinbefore mentioned matters, articles, or things may be obtained.
or made, whether sealed as first-class matter or not, are hereby
declared to be non-mailable matter, and shall not be conveyed
in the mails nor delivered from any post-office nor by any
letter-carrier, and any person who shall knowingly deposit,
or cause to be deposited, for mailing or delivery, anything
declared by this section to be non-mailable matter,
shall, for each and every offence, be fined upon conviction
thereof not more than five thousand dollars, or imprisoned at
hard labor not more than five years, or both, at the discretion
of the court."
On June 6, 1891, the defendant was indicted in the District,
Court of the United States in and for the Eastern Division of
the Eastern Judicial District of Missouri for a violation of
this statute. The indictment was in four counts. The second is as follows
"And the grand jurors aforesaid upon their oaths aforesaid
do further present that afterwards, to wit, on the day and
year aforesaid, at the division and district aforesaid, said

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

William Grimm, late of said division of said district, then and
there received a letter, addressed and delivered to him, of the
following tenor
'RIcHiMOND, IND., July 21, 1890.
GRimm, St. Louis, Mo.
"' Dear Sir A friend of mine has just showed me some
fancy photographs and advised me that they could be obtained
from you. I am on the road all the time, and I am sure many
of them could be sold in the territory over which I travel.
How many different kinds can you furnish 2 Send me price
list showing your rates by the hundred and dozen. Address
me at once at Indianapolis, Ind., care Bates House, and I will
send you a trial order.

"'MR. WILLIA

"'

ERmiAN HUNTRESS.'

"And the grand jurors aforesaid upon their oaths aforesaid
do further present that on the day and year first aforesaid the
said William Grimm then and there had in his possession and
under his control a large number, to wit, eight hundred,
obscene, lewd, and lascivious pictures, papers, and prints of
an indecent character and intended and adapted for an indecent and immoral use, and that said William Grimm, in
response to said letter, on the day and year first aforesaid, did
then and there unlawfully, feloniously, and knowingly deposit
and cause to be deposited in the post office of the United
States at St. Louis, Missouri, for mailing and delivery, a
written and printed letter and notice giving information,
directly and indirectly, to one Robert W McAfee and divers
other persons, whose names are to the jurors aforesaid unknown and for that reason cannot be herein stated, how,
where, of whom, and by what means obscene, lewd, and
lascivious pictures, papers, and prints of an indecent character
and intended and adapted for an indecent and immoral use
might be obtained, which said letter and notice was then and
there non-mailable matter and was then and there contained
in an envelope and wrapper bearing and having thereon the
address and superscription following, to wit, 'Mr. Herman

GRIMM v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

Hfuntress, care of Bates House, Indianapolis, Ind.,' and which
said letter and notice is of the following tenor
c"Win. Grimm, photograph and art studio, N. E. cor. of
Jefferson avenue and Olive street.
"'M]E. timinEss, Richmond.

"' ST. Louis, July 22, 1890.

"'Dear Sir" I received your letter this morning. I will
let you have them for $2.00 per doz. & $12.50 per 100. I
have about 200 negatives of actresses.
WMt. Gmi.'
"' Respectfully,
"And the grand jurors aforesaid upon their oaths aforesaid
do further present that on the day and year first aforesaid the
said William Grimm, when he so deposited and caused to be
deposited said last-named letter and notice in said post-office,
unlawfully, feloniously, and knowingly meant and intended
thereby to give notice and did thereby give notice and information to the writer of said first-named letter and to said
McAfee and divers other persons, whose names are to the
grand jurors aforesaid unknown, where, how, of whom, and
by what means obscene, lewd, and lascivious pictures, papers,
and prints of an indecent character and intended and adapted
for an indecent and immoral use might be obtained, contrary
to the form of the statutes of the United States in such case
made and provided and against its peace and dignity"'
The fourth count charged another and like offence in a
similar form. A demurrer to the indictment having been
overruled, the case came on for trial, and a verdict was
returned finding the defendant guilty under the second and
fourth counts, and not guilty under the first and third. A
motion for a new trial having been overruled, the defendant
was, on May 21, 1892, sentenced to imprisonment for one
year and one day To reverse such judgment this writ of
error was taken.
Mr D P
brief.

Dyer for plaintiff in error submitted on his

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

_Hr Solicitor General for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The sufficiency of the indictment is the first question presented. It is insisted that the possession of obscene, lewd, or
lascivous pictures constitutes no offence under the statute.
This is undoubtedly true, and no conviction was sought for
the mere possession of such pictures. The gravamen of the
complaint is that the defendant wrongfully used the mails for
transmitting information to others of the place where such
pictures could be obtained, and the allegation of possession is
merely the statement of a fact tending to interpret the letter
which he wrote and placed in the post-office.
It is said that the letter is not in itself obscene, lewd, or
lascivious. This also may be conceded. But however innocent on its face it may appear, if it conveyed, and was
intended to convey, information in respect to the place or
person where, or of whom, such objectionable matters could
be obtained, it is within the statute.
Again, it is objected that it is not sufficient to simply allegethat the pictures, papers, and prints were obscene, lewd, and
lascivior-s, that the pleader should either have incorporated
them into the indictment or given a full description of them
so that the court could, from the face of the pleading, see
whether they were in fact obscene. We do not think this
objection is well taken. The charge is not of sending obscene
matter through the mails, in which case some description
might be necessary, both for identification of the offence and
to enable the court to determine whether the matter was
obscene, and, therefore, non-mailable. Even in such cases it
is held that it is unnecessary to spread the obscene matter
in all its filthiness upon the record, it is enough to so far
describe it that its obnoxious character may be discerned.
There the gist of the offence is the placing a certain objectionable article in the mails, and, therefore, that article
should be identified and disclosed, so, here, the gist of the

GRIMM v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

offence is the mailing of a letter giving information, and,
therefore, it is proper that such letter should be stateAl so as
to identify the offence. But it does not follow that everything referred to in the letter, or concerning which information is given therein, should be spread at length on the
indictment. On the contrary, it is sufficient to allege its
character and leave further disclosures to the introduction of
evidence. It may well be that the sender of such a letter
has no single picture or other obscene publication or print in
his mind, but, simply knowing where matter of an obscene
character can be obtained, uses the mails to give such information to others. It is unnecessary that unlawful intent as to
any particular picture be charged or proved. It is enough
that in a certain place there could be obtained pictures of
that character, either already made and for sale or distribution, or from some one willing to make them, and that the
defendant, aware of this, used the mails to convey to others
the like knowledge.
A final matter complained of grows out of these facts
It appears that the letters to defendant-the one signed
"Herman Huntress," described in the second count, and one
signed "William W Waters," described in the fourth countwere written by Robert W McAfee, that there were no such
persons as Huntress and Waters, that McAfee was and had
been for years a post-office inspector in the employ of the
United States, and at the same time an agent of the Western
Society for the Suppression of Vice, that for some reasons
not disclosed by the evidence McAfee suspected that defendant was engaged in the business of dealing in obscene pictures,
and took this method of securing evidence thereof, that after
receiving the letters written by defendant, he, in name of
Huntress and Waters, wrote for a supply of the pictures,
and received from defendant packages of pictures which were
conceded to be obscene. Upon these facts it is insisted that
the conviction cannot be sustained, because the letters of
defendant were deposited in the mails at the instance of the
government, and through the solicitation of one of its officers,
that they were directed and mailed to fictitious persons; that
VOL. CLVI-39

OCTOBER TERIMI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

no intent can be imputed to defendant to convey reformation to other than the persons named in the letters sent by
him, and that as they were fictitious persons there could in
law be no intent to give information to any one. This objection was properly overruled by the trial court. There has
been much discussion as to the relations of detectives to
crime, and counsel for defendant relies upon the cases of
U'zted States v Whztter, 5 Dillon, 35, United States v
_3fattliews, 35 Fed. Rep. 890, Untted States v Adams, 59 Fed.
Rep. 674, Saunders v People, 38 Michigan, 218, in support of

the contention that no conviction can be sustained under the
facts in this case.
It is unnecessary to review these cases, and it is enough to
say that we do not think they warrant the contention of counsel. It does not appear that it was the purpose of the postoffice inspector to induce or solicit the commission of a crime,
but it was to ascertain whether the defendant was engaged in
an unlawful business. The mere facts that the letters were
written under an assumed name, and that he was a government official - a detective, he may be called - do not of them-

selves constitute a defence to the crime actually committed.
The official, suspecting that the defendant was engaged in a
business offensive to good morals, sought information directly
from him, and the defendant, responding thereto, violated a
law of the United States by using the mails to convey such
information, and he cannot plead in defence that he would not
have violated the law if inquiry had not been made of him by

such government official. The authorities in support of this
proposition are many and well considered. Among others
reference may be made to the cases of Bates v Unlted States,
10 Fed. Rep. 92, and the authorities collected in a note of Mr.
Wharton, on page 97, Unqted States v -Moore, 19 Fed. Rep.
39, United States v Wight, 38 Fed. Rep. 106, in which the
opinion was delivered by Mr. Justice Brown, then District
Judge, and concurred in by Mr. Justice Jackson, then Circuit
Judge, United States v Dorsey, 40 Fed. Rep. 752, Commonwealth v Baker, 155 Mass. 287, in which the court held that
one who goes to a house alleged to be kept for illegal gaming,

BLACK DIA OND CO. v. EXCELSIOR CO.

611

Syllabus.

and engages in such gaming himself for the express purpose
of appearing as a witness for the government against the proprietor, is not an accomplice, and the case is not subject to the
rule that no conviction should be had on the uncorroborated
testnony of an accomplice, People v Noelke, 94 N. Y 137,
in which the same doctrine was laid down as to the purchaser
of a lottery ticket, who purchased for the purpose of detecting
and punishing the vendor, State v. Jansen, 22 Kansas, 498, m
which the court, citing several authorities, discusses at some
length the question as to the extent to which participation by
a detective affects the liability of a defendant for a crime committed by the two jointly, State v Sthokney, 53 Kansas, 308.
But it is unnecessary to multiply authorities. The law was
actually violated by the defendant, he placed letters in the
post-office which conveyed information as to where obscene
matter could be obtained, and he placed them there with a
view of giving such information to the person who should
actually receive those letters, no matter what his name, and
the fact that the person who wrote under these assumed
names and received his letters was a government detective in
no manner detracts from his guilt.
These are all the questions presented by counsel. We see
no error in the rulings of the trial court, and the judgment is,
Affirmed.
therefore,

BLACK

DIAMOND COAL MINING COMPANY v.
EXCELSIOR COAL COMPANY

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 200.

Argued January 80, 1895. -Decided

March 4,1895.

If there be any invention in the machine patented to Martin R. Roberts by
reissued letters patent No. 7341 for an improvement in coal screens and
chutes, dated October 10, 1876, (upon which the court expresses no
opinion,) it is clear that it was not infringed by the defendant's machine.
The court takes judicial notice of the fact that hoppers with chutes
beneath them are used for many different purposes.

