OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

PITTSBURG AND SOUTHERN COAL COMPANY v.
LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 10. Argued January 10, 11, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

No. 147 of the Laws of Louisiana of July 12, 1888, providing for the appointment of coal and coke boat gaugers and making it compulsory upon all
persons selling coal or coke in a barge to have the same inspected and
gauged according to the provisions of that act, is not a regulation of
commerce; nor does it lay an impost or duty upon imports or exports
from or to other States and Louisiana, nor is such legislation forbidden
by the act of February 20, 1811, c. 21, 2 Stat. 641, providing for the
admission of Louisiana into the Union, nor does it work an unconstitutional discrimination between the coal of Pennsylvabia and the coal of
Alabama, coming into Louisiana.

ON the 12th July, 1888, the legislature of Louisiana passed
an act for the appointment of two coal and coke boat gaugers,
to fix their compensation, and define their duties. No. 147,
Laws of 1888, page 207. It provided that they should be
appointed by the governor of the State, with the approval and
consent of the Senate, to hold their offices in the city of New
Orleans, with a proviso that the governor should have the
power to remove any one of them upon satisfactory proof to
him of negligence and official misconduct. The act further
provided that each of the gaugers should give a bond payable
to the governor, or his successor in office, with two sufficient
sureties in the penal sum of five thousand dollars, conditioned
for the faithful performance of his duties. The act declared
that it should be the duty of the gaugers, when called upon for
that purpose, to gauge any coal or coke boat or barge in the
port of New Orleans or the State of Louisiana, that such
gauging should consist in reducing the length, breadth, and
depth, inside measurement, of boats or barges, deducting all
obstructions and displacements, into cubic inches and dividing
the cubic inches by twenty-six hundred and eighty-eight, thus

PITTSBURG &c. COAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.

591

Statement of the Case.

ascertaining the net measurement in bushels, and that two
bushels and six-tenths of a bushel should constitute a barrel,
that in all cases it should be the duty of the gaugers, or either
of them, to respond promptly to any call made for their or
either of their services, and to furnish a full and detailed certificate of the gross measurement of the boat or barge gauged and
the allowance for obstructions or displacements, that the fee
for gauging or regauging should be ten dollars for each boat,
and five dollars for each barge, to be paid by the seller, except
as subsequently provided, that the purchaser of any boat or
barge of coal or coke should have the privilege of calling upon
the said gauger or gaugers to regauge boats or barges, in all
eases where the original gauge was not satisfactory, and such
regauge should be adopted as the correct measure, that if the
original gauge should be found to be correct, then the purchaser
should pay the fee for regauging, but if the regauge should
show a less measure, then the seller should pay the fee.
The law also declared that no boatload of coal or coke
should be sold in the city or State until it had been inspected,
as provided for in the act, and that any person who should
sell a boatload of coal or coke that had not been gauged as
required should be liable to a penalty of fifty dollars for each
boat or barge thus sold, to be recovered, with costs of suit, in
any court of competent jurisdiction, for the benefit of the
,Charity Hospital of New Orleans.
The term of office of said gaugers was made four years, the
act to take effect from its passage.
The present action was brought by the State of Louisiana
against the Pittsburg and Southern Coal Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Pennsylvania, and domiciled
in the city of Pittsburg, of that State, in which it was a citizen,
to recover the penalty of fifty dollars for selling in New
Orleans one boatload of coal in violation of section eight of
the act. It was commenced in the First City Court of New
Orleans by the attorney general of the State for the use of
the Charity Hospital of the city
The defendant appeared by counsel and answered, alleging,
besides, that it was a corporation under the laws of Pennsyl-

OCTOBER TERS, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

vania and domiciled in the city of Pittsburg in that State
and a citizen thereof, that its business was that of coal mining,
buying and selling coal and coke, that coal and coke were the
products of the State of Pennsylvania, and were, by respondent, loaded in boats and barges on the Ohio and Tississippi
Rivers, and navigated down to the South on those rivers and
sold to purchasers along the banks thereof and of their various
southern tributaries, that it every year sends down the Mississippi River, a navigable river of the United States, a number of barges and boats with cargoes of coal, and moors the
same in the river, retaining them, as the property of the respondent, in the vessels in which they are brought down the
rivers to the city of New Orleans and other points, and holds
the same until they are sold to its customers, which is the object with which the boats and barges are loaded and navigated
from the State of Pennsylvania to the State of Louisiana and
other States, the vessels always remaining on the navigable
waters of the United States and sold thereon.
Respondent averred that the demand herein made was by
virtue of act No. 147 of the acts of 1888 of the State of Lomsiana, and that the coal boat No. 1098, for selling which a penalty of fifty dollars was claimed, had been gauged by gaugers
employed by the respondent, and that the boat, at the time
of sale, was upon the Mississippi River, a navigable stream
of the United States, within the jurisdiction of the United
States, and the measurement thereof made by the gaugers was
in accordance with section four of the act, and that the firm
of W G. Coyle & Company, to whom the boat of coal and
coke had been sold, were satisfied with the measurement, and
desired no further measurement thereof, and no certificate of
the amount of coal therein, that the price was agreed on between the respondent and W G. Coyle & Company, and any
further gauging of the boat and coal was totally unnecessary,
uncalled for, and would have been productive of no good or
benefit to anybody
Respondent further averred that the coal boat No. 1098 was
laden with a cargo of coal which was mined in Pennsylvania,
and was by the respondent navigated down the Ohio and Ais-

PITTSBURG &c. COAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.

593

Statement of the Case.

sissippi Rivers to a point or place thereon within the boundaries of the State of Louisiana, for the purpose of selling the
vessel and cargo upon .the river in pursuance of the trade
or commerce which is carried on by respondent thereon and
within the body of the various States through which it flows
between Pennsylvania and the Gulf of Mexico.
The respondent further averred that the act No. 147 of
1888, making the gauging of the boat compulsory and exactmg ten dollars on each boat sold in Louisiana, under which the
attorney general, in the name of the State, proceeded, was contrary to the constitution of the State of Louisiana, and void
upon various grounds, four of which were based upon the alleged repugnance of the act to certain provisions of the constitution of the State. These were not considered, as they
were deemed immaterial to the disposition of the case. The
other grounds were as follows
1. That it was in violation of article one, section ten, of the
Constitution of the United States, in that it impaired the obligation of a contract in this, that respondent had paid to the
State of Louisiana the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars
as a license for permission to carry on its business of selling
coal and coke within the State, that the two hundred and
fifty dollars being accepted by the State of Louisiana and the
city of New Orleans and a license issued to the respondent
thereunder, the same constituted a contract between the respondent and the State and the city, which has also issued a
license to the respondent in payment of the sum, giving to
them the right to sell coal and coke in the city and State
during the year 1888 without further opposition or hindrance
or imposition of any charge or claim or impost on the part of
the State or city, that the license was obtained and granted
by the State and the city prior to the passage of act No. 147
of the regular session of 1888.
2. That it was in violation of section ten of article one of
the Constitution of the United States, in that it seeks to lay
an impost or duty on imports in the State of Louisiana from
the State of Pennsylvania, which was not necessary for the
execution of any inspection law.
VOL. c-vi-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

3. That it was in violation of the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
4. That it was in violation of section one of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
5. That it was in violation of section eight of article one of
the Constitution of the United States in that it was a regulation of commerce among the several states, and it sought to
regulate upon the Mississippi River the sale of the vessels and
coal of respondent, which are the subjects of commerce and
trade carried on by the respondent on the river between the
State of Pennsylvama and other States of the Union and
foreign countries.
The respondent averred that the act was repugnant to the
provisions of the Constitution of the United States and the
laws thereof, in that it was a discrimination against imports
brought into the State of Louisiana, in boats upon the navigable waters of the United States in favor of those brought in
by land to the State, in that it subjected the one to the
payment of duties, imposts, and exactions set forth in the act
which were not imposed upon those brought in by land.
Respondent averred that the act discriminated against coal
and coke, the produce of the State of Pennsylvania, in favor
of the coal and coke, the produce of the State of Alabama.
That the act was an oppressive and unwarrantable interference with the right of citizens freely to contract and carry on
trade and commerce, and contrary to individual liberties.
Wherefore the respondent prayed that the act No. 147 of
1888 be decreed contrary and repugnant to the constitution
of the State of Louisiana and of the United States, and therefore null and void, and that judgment be rendered rejecting
the plaintiff's demand, and dismissing the respondent with
costs.
The testimony was then taken both on the part of the
defendant and the plaintiff.
It was admitted that the coal sold was the property of the
defendant, that it was sold to W G. Coyle & Co. on the 30th
of August, 1888, that it was gauged by a professional coalboat gauger, but not one of the two appointed by the State

PITTSBURG &c. COAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.

595

Statement of the Case.

under the statute, and that the method employed by him was
that described m the statute, and that no application was
made to the state gaugers appointed under that act, and the
boat was never gauged by them.
The agent of the Pittsburg and Southern Coal Company
testified that the domicil of the corporation was at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, that its business consisted in selling
coal in the Southern markets, and that the business was carried on by wholesale in boats and barges on the river, the
barges containing about 400 to 450 tons, and the boats from
900 to 950 tons, that the boats were loaded with Pittsburg
coal on the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, and on arrival in
Louisiana were sold to dealers, planters, and other purchasers,
but in no quantity less than a boat or barge load, that they
were gauged by a regular gauger employed by the company,
that the boat, for selling the load of which the penalty was
claimed, came from Pittsburg, and was the property of the
Pittsburg and Southern Coal Company, that it was sold to
W G. Coyle & Co., of New Orleans, and was gauged by a
gauger employed by the company, and by the system adopted
by the state law, that Coyle & Co. made no objection to the
gauge of the boat, required no certificate from the state officers, and no such certificate would have been of any benefit
or advantage to either party to the transaction, that there
was some competition in the trade in coal from Alabama,
which came by rail, and that very small quantities also came
from Tennessee, that there was no coal produced in Louisiana, and that the agent had taken out a license as a wholesale
coal dealer for that State for the year 1888.
The trial court rendered judgment in December, 1888,
rejecting the demand of the state. It proceeded upon the
ground that the employment of the State gaugers was not
compulsory, that in the case at bar the boat was gauged by
the very standard required by the Louisiana statute, that the
measurement was satisfactory to both the vendor and the purchaser, and that the only complaint of the State being that
the state gaugers had not been employed, the defendant had
not violated the act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

From this judgment appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of the State.
That court reversed the judgment of the trial court and
condemned the defendant to pay to the State for the benefit
of the Charity Hospital of New Orleans the penalty of fifty
dollars imposed by section eight of the statute in question.
It proceeded upon the ground that the gauging by the state
inspectors was compulsory, and that the statute attacked was
riot in conflict with the constitution either of the State or of
the United States.
To reverse that judgment the present writ of error was
prosecuted.
The plaintiff assigns the following as errors of the Supreme
Court
1. In sustaining the statute of Louisiana, that being in conflict with that clause of the Constitution of the United States
which declares that Congress shall have the power "to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several
States and with the Indian tribes,"
2. In sustaining the statute of Louisiana because it was in
conflict with that clause of the Constitution of the United
States which provides that "no State shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or
exports except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws, and the net produce of all duties and
imposts laid by any State on imports or exports shall be
for the use of the Treasury of the United States, and all
such laws shall be subject to the revision and control of the
Congress,"
3. In sustaining the statute of Louisiana which was in
conflict with that portion of the act of Congress entitled "An
act to enable the people of the territory of Orleans to form a
constitution and state government, and for the admission of
the State into the Union on an equal footing with the original
States, and for other purposes," which provided "That the
river Mississippi and the navigable rivers and waters leading
into the same or into the Gulf of Mexico shall be common
highways and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the

PITTSBURG &c. COAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.

597

Opinion of the Court.

said State as to other citizens of the United States, without
any tax, duty, impost, or toll therefor, imposed by the said
State;" and
4. In sustaining the statute of Louisiana which is in conflict with that portion of the act of Congress which provides
"That it shall be taken as a condition upon which the said
State is incorporated in the Union, that the river Mississippi
and the navigable rivers and waters leading into the same and
into the Gulf of Mexico shall be common highways and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the said State as to the
inhabitants of other States and the Territories of the United
States, without any tax, duty, impost, or toll therefor imposed
by the said State, and that the above condition, and also all
other the conditions and terms contained in the third section
of the act, the title whereof is hereinbefore recited, shall be
considered, deemed, and taken fundamental conditions and
terms upon which the said State is incorporated in the Union."
.

W S.Benedict and .Afr George A. Rfing for plaintiff

in error.

Y2

Charles W..llornor was on their brief.

-Up George Giray for defendant in error.

MR. JusTioE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinon of the court.
There is nothing in the provisions of the act of Louisiana
providing for the appointment of two gaugers of coal and coke
boats, which can properly be considered as regulations of commerce, in conflict with the power vested in Congress over the
subject. They only prescribe the rule by which the capacity
of the carrying vessels of coal and coke can be determined,
and the weight of the coal or coke carried ascertained, which
may be readily done at any time. They were adopted for the
ccnvemence of the owners of the boats and loads. They are
properly to be regarded as a part of those innumerable police
regulations which every State may enaet for the convenience
and comfort of its inhabitants in the conduct of their business.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

They do not add to the increase or to the diminution of the
productions of the State or to the facility of their transportation or of their loading or landing. They may in some
cases in a slight degree affect commerce, but not to such an
extent or in such a sense as to be properly designated as regulations of commerce.
As this court said in Smith v Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, 473
"There are many cases, however, where the acknowledged
powers of a State may be exerted and applied in such a manner as to affect foreign or interstate commerce without being
intended to operate as commercial regulations. If their operation and application in such cases regulate such commerce, so
as to conflict with the regulation of the same subject by Congress, either as expressed in positive laws or implied from the
absence of legislation, such legislation on the part of the State,
to the extent of that conflict, must be regarded as annulled.
To draw the line of interference between the two fields of
jurisdiction, and to define and declare the instances of unconstitutional encroachment, is a judicial question often of much
difficulty, the solution of which, perhaps, is not to be found in
any single and exact rule of decision. Some general lines of
discrimination, however, have been drawn in varied and numerous decisions of this court. It has been uniformly held, for
example, that the States cannot by legislation place burdens
upon commerce with foreign nations or among the several
States. 'But upon an examination of the cases in which they
were rendered,' as was said in Sherlock v Alling, 93 UT S.
99, 'it will be found that the legislation adjudged invalid
imposed a tax upon some instrument or subject of commerce,
or exacted a license from parties engaged in commercial pur
suits, or created an impediment to the free navigation of
some public waters, or prescribed conditions in accordance
with which commerce in particular articles or between particular places was required to be conducted. In all the cases
the legislation condemned operated directly upon commerce,
either by way of tax upon its business, license upon its pursuit in particular channels, or conditions for carrying it on.'
In that case it was held that a statute of Indiana, giving a

PITTSBURG &c. COAL CO. v. LOUISIANA.

599

Opinion of the Court.

right of action to the personal representatives of the deceased
where his death was caused by the wrongful act or omission
of another, was applicable to the case of a loss of life occasioned by a collision between steamboats navigating the Ohio
River engaged in interstate commerce, and did not amount to
a regulation of commerce in violation of the Constitution of
the United States. On this point the court said (p. 103)
'General legislation of this kind, prescribing the liabilities or
duties of citizens of a State, without distinction as to pursuit
or calling, is not open to any valid objection because it may
affect persons engaged in foreign or interstate commerce.
Objection might, with equal propriety, be urged against legislation prescribing the form in which contracts shall be authenticated, or property descend or be distributed on the death of
its owner, because applicable to the contracts or estates of persons engaged in such commerce. In conferring upon Congress
the regulation of commerce it was never intended to cut
the States off from legislating on all subjects relating to the
health, life, and safety of their citizens, though the legislation
might indirectly affect the commerce of the country Legislation, in a great variety of ways, may affect commerce and
persons engaged in it without constituting a regulation of it
within the meaning of the Constitution.
And it may
be said, generally, that legislation of a State, not directed
against commerce or any of its regulations, but relating to
the rights, duties, and liabilities of citizens, and only indirectly
and remotely affecting the operations of commerce, is of obligatory force upon citizens within its territorial jurisdiction,
whether on land or water, or engaged in commerce, foreign or
interstate, or in any other pursuit.'"
We do not think that the statute of Louisiana was in conflict with the commercial power of Congress prescribed by the
Constitution, and the Supreme Court of Louisiana did not err,
therefore, in sustaining it. It provided only a regulation for
the measurement of the coal and coke boats on the Mississippi,
and of the coal and coke carried, which neither increased nor
impaired the commerce of the country in the carrying form of
the boats or in the coal and coke carried.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor do we perceive that the statute of Louisiana in any respect lays an impost or duty on imports or exports from Pennsylvania and Louisiana. The terms "imports" and "exports"
apply only to articles imported from foreign countries or exported to them. The inhibition imposed is the laying of duties
on imports from foreign countries, and not on such as came
from one State to another. This was directly held in TFoodrqf
v Parham,8 Wall. 123. The exception from this restriction
from levying a tax on imports and exports is confined to such
as may be absolutely necessary to execute the inspection laws.
Nor do we perceive that there is any inhibition to the statute
of Louisiana in the act approved February 20, 1811, c. 21, 2
Stat. 641, enabling the people of the Territory of Orleans to
form a constitution and state government and for the admission of the State of Louisiana into the Union on an equal footing with the original States, or in the act of Congress which
provides, as the unalterable condition on which the State of
Louisiana was admitted into the Union, that the river Mississippi and the navigable rivers and waters leading into the
same or into the Gulf of Mexico shall be common highways
and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of said State as
to other citizens of the United States, without any tax, duty,
impost, or toll therefor imposed by the said State. The tax,
duty, impost, or toll thus referred to and thus prohibited are
such as are directed against the commerce of the rivers, and
not such as are imposed by any regulation for convenience in
the measurement or storage of coal or coke carried. The freedoi contemplated is that which would be destroyed by denying equality of right to any particular class of vessels or mode
of navigating the Mississippi and other rivers leading into
the Gulf of Mexico. All such rivers are to be deemed highways and equally open to all persons who choose to pursue
commerce upon them.
Nor is there any discrimination in the transportation of the
coal and coke from Alabama and that from Pennsylvania, as
in any respect impairs the efficiency of the laws of Louisiana.
The difference between the transportation of the coal and coke
from Pennsylvania and from Alabama is only the difference

SALTONSTALL v. WIEBUSCH.
Statement of the Case.

:arisng from one being transported by water and the other by
land. There is a difference arising between water and land
.carriage, arising from the nature of the two modes, but not
-one created by legislation, direct or indirect, or by any efforts
of the state legislature to .give or recognize a discrimination
m the case of either.
Judgment affirmed.
SALTO1NSTALL v. WIEBUSCH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 150. Argued January 15, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 195.

-Carpenters' pincers, scythes, and grass-hooks, made of forged steel, imported
into the United States in March, 1889, were dutiable under the last clause
of Schedule C in the act of March 3, 1883, c. 21, 22 Stat. 488, 500, as " manufactures, articles or wares, not specially enumerated or provided for in
this act, composed wholly or in part of iron, steel, or any other metal.

Tins was an action by a corporation known as Wiebusch &
"Hilger, Limited, against the collector of the port of Boston,
to recover an alleged excess of duty imposed upon a certain
-consignment of carpenters' pincers, scythes, and grass-hooks,
-imported from Antwerp in March, 1889.
The collector exacted upon this importation a duty of
-45 per cent under the last clause of schedule C of the tariff
-act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, 500, which provides
for "manufactures, articles, or wares, not specially enumerated
-or provided for in this act, composed wholly or in part of
iron, steel,
or any other metal, and whether wholly
-or partly manufactured, forty-five per centum ad valorem."
Plaintiff protested against this classification, and in due
time brought suit, contending that the articles were dutiable
at 22- cents per pound, under a provision of the same schedule,
for "forgings of iron and steel, or forged iron, of whatever
shape, or in whatever stage of manufacture, not specially
-enumerated or provided for in this act."

