WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Syllabus.

tory would therefore take the fund from the creditors, to the
payment of whose claims it has been lawfully consecrated,
and give it to the relator.
The judgments in favor of the relator in no way change
the situation. The first three direct "said judgment to be
paid exclusively out of such revenues
of the year
1882
and for which appropriations are made in said
amended budget, provided that any surplus of the revenues
of any subsequent year may be applied to the payment of the
debts of the year 1882, according to section 3 of act No. 30 of
1877." The last fourteen, after providing that they should be
paid out of the funds of the respective years, add, "with the
full benefit of the provisions df section 3 of act No. 30 of
1877." The proviso in all these judgments adds nothing to
the rights conferred by the act of 1877, but in terms simply
preserves them. What the position of the relator under that
act is we have just stated. The manifest purpose of the
saving clause in the judgments was to prevent the language,
which directed that they should be paid out of the funds of
the year, from being construed as preventing the city government from paying out of the surplus, if so determined by the
municipal authorities.
Judgment afirmed.

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 9T. Submitted December 4, 1894. -Decided

March 4, i895.

A bill of exceptions may be signed after the expiration of the term at
which the judgment was rendered, if done by agreement of parties made
during that term.
If such bill is not delivered to counsel within the time fixed by the agreement, objection to the failure to do so must be taken when the bill is
settled, and, if decided against the objector, the question should be
reserved.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
If evidence legally inadmissible is admitted over objection, that fact is
ground for reversal by the appellate court.
The assertion in argument by counsel of facts of which no evidence is
properly before the jury in such a way as to seriously prejudice the
opposing party is, when duly excepted to, ground for reversal.
Where evidence is admitted for one certain purpose, and that only, the
mere fact that its admission was not objected to at the time, does not
authorize its use for other purposes for which it was not, and could not
have been, legally introduced.
It is the duty of the court to correct an error arising from the erroneous
admission of evidence when the error is discovered, and when such correction is duly made the cause of reversal is thereby removed.
The fact of a divorce being confessed by the pleadings, and being admittedby counsel for defendant in open court, it is unnecessary to prove it,
and the divorce record is inadmissible.
MARY Russell Beauchamp was married in September, 1865,
to E. H. Waldron. They lived in Lafayette, Indiana, from
the date of their marriage until 1875, when they removed toSt. Louis, the employment of the husband calling him there.
In 1877 they left St. Louis and returned to Indiana, where
they continued to live as husband and wife until June, 1886.
At that date the husband abandoned his marital relations
and fixed his permanent residence in Chicago. For twelve or
fifteen years, prior to June, 1886, the husband, Waldron, had
friendly relations with E. S. Alexander and wife, who lived
in Chicago, Waldron dealing with Alexander in a business.
way, and also calling socially at his residence, and Alexander
visiting Waldron when he came to Lafayette. In February,
1886, E. S. Alexander died, leaving a widow Subsequently
Mrs. Waldron filed in the Superior Court of Tippecanoe
County, Indiana, a suit for divorce against her husband,
which ripened, in June, 1887, into a decree granting the
divorce and giving her $10,000 alimony In October, 1887,
E. I. Waldron married Mrs. Josephine P Alexander, the
widow of E. S. Alexander. In June, 1888, Mary Russell,
the divorced wife of E. H. Waldron, sued Airs. Josephine P
Waldron, the former Mrs. Alexander, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. The
grounds of this action are stated in her complaint as follows
1st. "Whereas the said defendant, contriving and wrong-

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Statement of the Case.

fully, wickedly, and unjustly intending to injure the said
plaintiff and to deprive her of the comfort, fellowship, society,
aid, and assistance of Edwin H. Waldron, the then husband
of the said plaintiff, and to alienate and destroy his affection
for said plaintiff, on, to wit, the 6th day of June, A.D. 1886,
and on divers other days and times between said 6th day of
June, A.D. 1886, to the 21st day of June, A.D. 1887, at, etc.,
wrongfully, wickedly, and unjustly debauched and carnally
knew the said Edwin H. Waldron, then and there still being
the husband of the said plaintiff, and thereby the affection of
the said Edwin H. Waldron for the said plaintiff was then
and there alienated and destroyed, and also by reason of the
premises the said plaintiff from thence hitherto wholly lost
and was deprived of the comfort, fellowship, society, and
assistance of the said Edwin H. Waldron, her said husband,
in her domestic affairs, which the said plaintiff during all that
time ought to have had and otherwise might and would have
had, etc., aforesaid."
2d. "Whereas the said defendant, contriving and wrongfully, wickedly, and unjustly intending to injure the said
plaintiff and to deprive her of the comfort, fellowship, society,
aid, and assistance of Edwin H. Waldron, the then husband
of the said plaintiff, and to alienate and destroy his affection
for the said plaintiff on, to wit, the 6th day of June, A.D. 1886,
and on divers other days and times between said 6th day of
June, A.D. 1886, and the 21st day of June, A.D. 1887, at, etc.,
wrongfully and unjustly sought and made the acquaintance
of Edwin H. Waldron, the husband of the said plaintiff, and
then and there, well knowing that said Edwin Hl. Waldron
was the husband of said plaintiff, wrongfully, wickedly, and
unjustly besought, persuaded, and allured the said Edwin H.
Waldron to desert and abandon the said plaintiff, and thereby
the affection of said Edwin H. Waldron for the plaintiff was
alienated and destroyed, and also by reason of the premises
the plaintiff has from thence hitherto been wholly deprived
of the affection, society, aid, and assistance of her said husband in her domestic affairs, which the plaintiff during all
that time ought to have had and otherwise might and would

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

have had, and also by reason of the premises the said plaintiff
during all said time from thence hitherto suffered great mental anguish and loss of social reputation at, etc., aforesaid, to
the damage of said plaintiff of one hundred thousand dollars,
and therefore she brings her suit," etc.
The defendant pleaded that inasmuch as the relation of
husband and wife, which formerly existed between the plaintiff and defendant's present husband, had been terminated by
a decree of divorce, granted at plaintiff's own demand, the
action was not maintainable. She further pleaded the general
issue.
The case came to trial in January, 1890. In the opening
statement, foreshadowing the case which it was proposed to
prove, one of the counsel for plaintiff read to the jury extracts
from the divorce proceedings, and commented thereon in a
manner which clearly indicated that they were links in a chain
of evidence, which plaintiff proposed to offer in order to establish the adultery of the defendant. Thereafter, during the
progress of the trial, the record of the divorce suit was offered
in evidence by the plaintiff, for the general purposes of the
case, and its admission was objected to by the defence on the
ground that it was res tnter alwos, and that the plaintiff could
not make proof for herself by offering her own petition as
evidence in her favor, and thus asperse the character of the
-defendant. The court admitted the record to prove the fact
of the divorce alone, and, while thus admitting it, repeatedly
declared that it could only be used for that one purpose, and
that the averments in the petition and other matters reflecting
on the defendant were not to be disclosed or read to the jury
The defendant excepted to the admission of the record for
any purpose whatever.
The plaintiff then offered the statute of Indiana relative to
divorce, and this was also admitted, in spite of objection, as
evidence of the Indiana law on that subject. The testimony
of the judge before whom the divorce proceeding was had
was then admitted. Wilson, who appeared as attorney for
Waldron in the divorce proceeding, was also allowed, over objection, to testify as to his connection therewith. Davie, the

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Statement of the Case.

witness on the strength of whose testimony the decree of
divorce had been mainly based, was also allowed to testify
In the closing argument to the jury Mr. Aldrich, of counsel
for the plaintiff, used the following language
"The divorce law of Indiana provides that
a divorce may be decreed
for the following causes and
no other Adultery, except as hereinafter provided, impotency existing at the time of the marriage, abandonment for
two years, cruel and inhuman treatment of either party by
the other, habitual drunkenness of either party; the failure
of the husband to make reasonable provision for his family
for a period of two years, the conviction subsequent to the
marriage, in any country, of either party, of an infamouscrime.
"The only two that are referred to in this bill for divorce
the record is not here, I shall state it, and if it is challenged
I shall read it when it comes - are these That he had abandoned her. Is there any conflict in the evidence in this case
that that abandonment only extended from the 6th day of
June up until the time this decree was entered the 21st day of
June, 1887, a year? Is that a compliance with the statute
calling for abandonment for two years 2 Nothing of the kind..
Cruel and inhuman treatment. Hasn't Edward H. Waldron
testified upon the stand in this case, and is there any disputeupon this subject, that there was no cruel and inhuman treatment upon his part in this case, that he had never been guilty
of cruel and inhuman treatment, and has the statement been
challenged that cruel and inhuman treatment under the laws
of the State of. Indiana only means acts of cruelty coupled
with personal violence 2
"There has been no cruelty or anything of the kind. They
say there is no charge of adultery in this case. The record
says that there was no cruel and inhuman treatment, and that
he was enamoured of Josephine P Alexander, in this case.
Mr. Davie was the only witness upon this subject,
and he has said
that he
did not know
Edward H. Waldron until he came to Chicago, and Edward H.
Waldron
has testified
that up to the time he

S66

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

,came to Chicago he had no acquaintance with Robert Davie.
He was the agent, the paid agent, of Edward H. Wal,dron. Edward H. Waldron is too able a man, he has too much
brains, he is too cute, he is too slick, gentlemen of the jury,
not to apply any other terms but those that are fitting to him,
-to suppose that a decree could be obtained in Indiana for
abandonment or for cruelty or for inhuman treatment. Edward H. Waldron knew as well as you know that he could
,only get a divorce and it could only be procured on the
Robert Dave
ground of his adultery with somebody
knew it. By reason of this non-acquaintance at that time
Robert Davie could not have testified to any of the acts of
cruelty How did Robert Davie acquire his information By
In view of the
these innumerable visits to Chicago.
testimony in this case, in view of the relations of the parties,
in view of the fact, that Edward H. Waldron has testified
that he had talked with the defendant on two occasions about
these divorce matters, and the fact that he was living at this
house at that time, with that fact before you, you cannot
believe, that it was unpremeditated, that it was unknown, or
-anything of that kind." The record then continues
" r. McCoy, for the defendant, excepted to the statement
of counsel that Robert Davie had obtained the information to
which he testified in the divorce proceeding in Chicago, or
from Edward H. Waldron, on the ground that the court had
excluded the evidence of Robert Davie on that subject.
"Mr. McCoy 'I read a question here as to whether or
not Mr. Davie obtained his information in Chicago, and he
replied that he did not, and that extra question and answer
was stricken out as being within the character of the evidence
excluded by the court, therefore I do not think it is proper
to comment upon to the jury'
"1Mr. Aldrich further stated to the jury I I submit to you,
gentlemen, that any information upon that subject, whether itwas cruelty or whether it was cruel and inhuman treatment,
or whether it was abandonment, must have been acqmred by
iMr. Davie while he was in Chicago.'
"To which statement of counsel for the plaintiff Mr. McCoy,

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Statement of the Case.

,counsel for the defendant, objected, and then and there duly
,excepted for the reasons above stated.
โข" Mr. McCoy further objected to the statements of the
,counsel for the plaintiff to the jury as to the laws of Indiana
,on the subject of divorce and the argument that it must have
been granted on the grounds alleged in the complaint in the
,divorce proceeding reflecting upon the character of the
-defendant, Josephine P Alexander, and then and there duly
-excepted to such statements.
"And thereupon, after further arguments to the jury,
Mr. Dexter addressed the jury in a closing argu-iment on behalf of the plaintiff, in the course of which
he spoke as follows
"hM Dexter's Closzng A'gument.
was that divorce 2 Gentlemen, this subject of
what
"Now,
,divorce was spoken of, you recollect, between Waldron and
the defendant. It was a matter of conversation, he says, on
-one or two occasions, and you have heard read his language
-on that subject. Now, I assert that here was a wicked
-scheme against the established order of society and the rights
-of this woman, and that the defendant shall not escape here
by throwing up false issues. Are there any grounds of
.divorce here except those which sustain this action 2
"Mr. Walker, for defendant. I enter my objection to the
-statement of counsel.
"The court. All that was in the declaration the court
-excluded.
The conclusion that it [the evi"1Mr. Dexter.
from, it hurts him. The
shrinks
counsel
to
leads
-dence]
There is something underit.
about
be
fogged
,jury cannot
neath here that is reached for, and you will lay hold of it,
and you will not be deceived about it. There will be no effectual effort to keep your minds from coming to the conclusion that they ought to reach. I shall confine myself to the
statements admitted by the court and read to the jury
"The plaintiff prays for a decree of divorce for misconduct of
the defendant on account of his cruel and inhuman treatment

OCTOBER TElf,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

of this plaintiff -neither cruel nor inhuman treatment proven
save in the language of the bill-'in this, that he has become enamoured of one Josephine P Alexander, a married
woman.' "
In its final charge to the jury the court, among other things,
said
"The court has already adjudged that the decree of divorce
obtained by the plaintiff from Mr. Waldron, June 21, 1887, is
evidence conclusive in this case that the marriage relations
between the plaintiff and Mr. Waldron were dissolved from
the date of that decree. The decree of divorce acted on the
status of the parties and dissolved the marriage relation
theretofore existing between them and left each free to remarry, but the allegations contained in the bill of complaint
in that case against Mrs. E. S. Alexander, the present defendant, are not evidence in this case and were excluded by the
court.
"The evidence also taken on the trial of that case is not
competent evidence agamst the defendant in this case, and
was also excluded. She, not being a party thereto, is not permitted to appear and cross-examine the witnesses. Nor should
the jury assume or infer from anything in evidence in this case
that the judgment of divorce was granted upon the ground of
adultery, as that is not one of the grounds alleged in the bill
of complaint, nor upon any ground of -for any of the causes
having reference to the conduct of the defendant in this case.
Such an inference has been sought to be drawn by counsel from
the proceedings in that case, but it is an inference not warranted by the record in evidence and unfair towards the
defendant. The jury will try this case upon the evidence produced on this trial, and not assume or infer that other evidence
might have been produced here or was produced in some other
case to which the defendant was not a party"
In February there was a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for
$17,500. In March an application for a new trial was heard,
and taken under advisement. In June, the motion for a new
trial having been overruled, the defendant moved in arrest.
This motion was also overruled, and on the same day judgment

WALDROIN v. WALDRON.
Statement of the Case.

was rendered on the verdict. The record states that on motion
for defendant the time to file a bill of exceptions was extended
to the first day of :November next. Thereafter a writ of error
was sued out and a supersedeas bond fixed at $25,000. On
October 6, 1890, a written stipulation was entered into between
counsel, which, after mentioning the suing out of the writ of
error, the giving of the supersedeas bond, and the issuance of
citation returnable here in October, 1890, expressed the desire
of the plaintiff in error to obtain an extension of time to prepare the bill of exceptions and file the record here, and set out
that this extension was agreed to by the defendant in error,
provided "First. That the above-named defendant (as plaintiff in
error) shall file in the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court
of the United States the said writ of error, the said citation
and this stipulation, and shall have the said cause docketed m
said Supreme Court in its regular order within the time regularly required by the rules of said court for the filing of the
transcript of the record in said cause in said Supreme Court as
if this stipulation had not been made.
"Second. That counsel for the above-named defendant
shall have until November 15, AJ). 1890, to prepare the bill
of exceptions in said cause and deliver it to counsel for the
above-named plaintiff for examination and such correction as
he may deem proper.
"Third. That counsel for the above-named plaintiff shall
examine said bill of exceptions and return it to counsel for the
above-named defendant within thirty days after it shall have
been delivered to him with any proposed corrections or alterations which he may deem proper.
"Fourth. Thereafter, as soon as practicable, but within
thirty days upon reasonable notice, said bill of exceptions shall
be presented to the judge who conducted the trial of said
cause for his approval after the settlement by him of any
parts of said bill of exceptions as to which counsel may have
been unable to agree.
"Fifth. That said bill of exceptions shall be approved by
said judge and be by him sent to the clerk of said Circuit
VOL. eLVI-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Court with directions that it be filed as of the date of th,
entry of said judgment.
"Sixth. That within thirty days after said bill of exceptions
shall have been so filed the transcript of said record shall be
completed and filed in the Supreme Court of the United
States in said cause as theretofore docketed.
"That, in the meantime, so long as counsel for said abovenamed defendant make no default in the performance of the
conditions of this stipulation, counsel for the above-named
plaintiff (defendant in error) will make no motion to dismiss
said writ of error for failure to file said transcript of the
record within the time regularly prescribed by the rules of
said Supreme Court, and the said transcript, when so filed,
shall be taken and considered as having been filed in apt time.
"This stipulation is executed in triplicate, one to be filed in
the Supreme Court of the United States, and one to be retained by counsel for each of said parties.
"Dated at Chicago, Illinois, October 6, A.D. 1890."
Application was made here in due season to docket this
agreement and writ of error in lieu of the record, and was
refused. The settlement of the bill of exceptions by the court
is thus stated in the record
"The clerk of said court will file this bill of exceptions as
R. Buxx, Judge.
of the date of July 10th, A.D. 1890.
"To William H. Bradley, Esq., clerk.
"Upon the presentation of the bill of exceptions to the judge
for settlement, on February 21st, 1891, counsel for plaintiff
(defendant in error) moved that the judge do not sign the
same, because the defendant (plaintiff in error) has waived
her right thereto, since said defendant has not filed this bill of
exceptions within the time prescribed by the judge at the time
the appeal was prayed, and has failed to have said case docketed in the Supreme Court, as in and by a stipulation entered
into on October 8th, 1890, between the attorneys of the
respective parties prescribed.
"Which motion was denied- by the judge.
"To which ruling counsel for plaintiff then and there duly
excepted.

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

"Date, Madison, Feb'y 21, 1891."
The -bill of exceptions in its caption recites
"Be it remembered that on the trial of the above-entitled
cause on the 21st, 22d, 23d, 24th, 27th, 28th, 29th, 30th, and
31st days of January, and the 1st, 3d, and 4th days of February, A.D. 1890, in the December term of said court A.D. 1889,
the said cause having been reached and come on for trial in
its regular order on the trial calendar of said court, the following proceedings were had, viz."
When it reaches the point where the evidence for plaintiff
is recited there appears the heading "Plaintiff's Evidence."
At the point where the opening evidence for the plaintiff
ends, is the following entry "Which was all the evidence
here offered on the part of the plaintiff on the trial of the
cause." This is immediately followed by the words, "Defendant's Evidence. Thereupon the defendant, to maintain the
issues on his part in said cause, introduced the following evidence." At the close of the evidence which follows the foregoing is the entry, "Here counsel for defendant rested their
case," and following this, "Rebuttal. And thereupon the
plaintiff, further to maintain the issues on her part, introduced
the following evidence in rebuttal." At the conclusion of this
evidence is the statement, "Which was all the testimony
offered on the trial of said cause." The record was filed and
docketed here February 28, 1891. In December, 1892, defendant in error moved to vacate the supersedeas because the surety
on the bond had become insolvent. On December 12'it was
ordered that a new bond be given within thirty days, and on
the same day the new bond was filed.
-Mr Iillian H. Barnum, Mr H. J Caldwell and Xr
.LouisJ TPerson for plaintiff in error.
Xir Charles HT Aldrzch for defendant in error, to the points
on which the case turned in this court, said
I. The record shows that judgment was entered on the verdict in this case on July 10, 1890, and defendant given until

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

November 1, 1890, to file her bill of exceptions. The bill of
exceptions was not tendered to the judge until February 21,
1891, at which date he signed and sealed it as of the date of
July 10, 1890. It is confidently submitted that the court had
no jurisdiction to sign the bill at the time it was signed, and
that its order to the clerk to enter the same as of the earlier
date was wholly nugatory and void.
The conditions upon which the extension was granted failed,
the plaintiff in error presented the bill of exceptions to the
counsel for defendant in error January 15, 1891, sixty days
later than he was required to do by the stipulation, he was
notified as soon as this court refused to docket the case that
this point would be insisted upon, and when the bill was tendered the question was distinctly reserved as certified by the
judge.
Assuming, for the purpose of argument only, that counsel
were able by their mere stipulation and without an order of
the court procured before the expiration of the time limited,
to extend the jurisdiction of the court to settle the- bill of exceptions, it is certain that they had power to prescribe the
terms of their own agreement. It was therefore competent
to make the stipulation subject to the proviso that the "cause
shall be docketed in the Supreme Court of the United States,
as early and in the same order as to priority, as it would be
docketed if the transcript of the record were filed in said Supreme Court, or within the time regularly required by the
rules of said court, so that the time when said cause shall be
reached for hearing in said Supreme Court shall not be postponed by such extension."
The right of the judge to sign the bill of exceptions on
February 21, 1891, must therefore be determined independently of the stipulation and as if it had never been entered
into. Assuming this, what are the rights of the parts2
A judgment is entered July 10, 1890, and the defendant
given until November 1, 1890, to file her exceptions. She
fails to do so until February 21, 1891. The statutory terms
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois are required to be held on the first Monday

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

of July and the third Monday of December of each year.
By rule 21 as prescribed by that court, adjourned terms are
held on the first Mondays of March, May, and October of each
year. By rule 23 of the same court, process may be made
returnable to the first day of any regular, special, or adjourned
term.
The verdict in this case was recorded at the December term,
1889, and judgment rendered at the July term, 1890. The
time given by the court, November 1, 1890, was a time within
the same term. The trial was had before the District Judge
for the Western District of Wisconsin, who at the trial was
sitting as a Circuit Judge in the Northern District of Illinois.
The order overruling the motion for a new trial was entered
by the Circuit Judge, as the record states, by the direction of
said District Judge. If the latter in Wisconsin had no jurisdiction to enter the order, it would probably be considered
valid as having been entered by the Circuit Judge, and hence
his order, but what authority had the District Judge, in
February, 1891, sitting at Madison, Wisconsin, as the record
indicates, and as the fact was, to direct the clerk of the Circuit Court of the Northern District of Illinois to file any papers
as of July 10, 1890, or any other date 2
II. But assuming for the purpose of argument only, that he
was still authorized to exercise the powers of a Circuit Judge
in the Northern District of Illinois, it is confidently submitted
that neither he nor any other judge in that district had any
power to enter any orders.in the case of Waldron v Waldron.
That case had passed beyond the jurisdiction of the Circuit
court. This has been decided by this court in Xlueller v.
Ehlers, 91 U. S. 249.
The writ of error was dated July 15, 1890, and was returnable the second Monday of October, 1890, the citation was
dated July 16, 1890, and was returnable at the same time.
This brings the case squarely within the decision in .Afichiga
Ansurance Ban v R0dred, 143 U S. 293, both upon the
question of the want of power after the term and the want of
jurisdiction after the entry of a writ of error in this court.
II. The bill of exceptions can afford the court little if any

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

assistance in any event. It does not purport to contain the
evidence. The record states "which was all the testmony
offered on the trial of said cause." Where a like statement
was made in a bill of exceptions the Supreme Court of Indiana
said "As we have said, the evidence is not in the record.
The bill of exceptions states that all the ' testimony' is in the
record, but this is not equivalent to a statement that all the
'evidence' is in the record. Testimony is one species of evidence. But the word ' evidence' is a generic term which includes every species of it. And, in a bill of exceptions, the
general term covering all species should be used in the statement as to its embracing the evidence, not the term 'testimony,'
which is satisfied if the bill only contains all of that species
of evidence. The statement that all the testimony is in the
record may, with reference to judicial records, properly be
termed an affirmative pregnant."
f.orss, 60 Indiana, 153, 157.

Gazette P'snting Co. v

IV There was no available error committed by the admission of the divorce record in evidence.
It is an elementary principle of law that objections to testimony en masse are unavailable. Thompson on Trials, ยง 696.
The principle is that the court must be advised of the specific
point urged by counsel in order that he may rule intelligently
upon it, and not be forced to the impracticable course of scanfirng every question of law which might be raised on evidence
submitted. As many of the cases state, it is not a technical
rule, but one intended to mitigate the hardships of technicalities. It saves the necessity of retrials, puts the court upon
notice of the exact point to be relied upon, and therefore tends
to do away with the technical questions which might be raised
in the appellate court. If this divorce record, or any part of
it, was admissible for any purpose, then the objection and
exception made by counsel for plaintiff does not avail, for
their objection was to the admission of the record for any
purpose.
The decree of divorce is a judgment =i rem, binding upon
all the world as showing the status of the parties. It is conclusive against all parties as to the fact that Mary A. Waldron

WALDRONT v. WALDRON.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

is no longer entitled to the love and affectibn, the consortium
of her husband. It is not conclusive as to why she is no
longer entitled to it. The loss of consor'um is one of the
material facts in issue. It bears a strict analogy to the rules
of evidence in criminal cases where it is every-day practice to
admit evidence to prove the corpus delict-6 before there is any
proof connecting the defendant with the crime. The fact
that the crime has been committed is the 'first issue to be
established by the prosecution, and in many cases it would be
utterly impossible to prove the commission of a crime if evidence were only admissible which showed upon its face some
connection of the defendant with the state of facts sought to
be proven.
Much more is this principle important where the case
involves questions of conspiracy Indeed, a great branch of
the law has been established on these questions of conspiracy
and the evidence which can be admitted to prove it. Necessarily the proof is circumstantial and more remote. The
connection is more inferential than in other cases where the

direct acts of the parties charged can be proven. The case
at bar involves practically a question of conspiracy The
motives are found in the mind of Mrs. Josephine P Alexander.
The overt acts, most of them, following upon those motives
and volitions, come through Edward H. Waldron. The consequences of these acts are evident by the necessary acts of
Mrs. Mary A. Waldron following upon those consequences.
The logical connection is close and irrefutable. This record is
of itself admissible as tending to prove one of the issues in
the case, namely, the actual loss of the consortium. We are
not compelled to show any connection with the acts of the
plaintiff in error.
Prior to the admission of the divorce record it was in evidence that the plaintiff was living apart from her husband.
This might have contained an inference to the jury that she
was living apart from him of her own choice, that she was
still entitled to his love and affection, and by proper conduct
might re~stablish herself and him in their marital relations, and
explain and settle any temporary estrangement then existing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

The divorce record would then be admissible to conclusively
rebut any such possible inference, if it would show that she
was no longer entitled to his consort um, that she could not
then lawfully live with him, could not lawfully claim his
protection, or any of those rights which she had theretofore
had in him.
And again, the instructions of the court make it clear that
the defendant could not have been prejudiced either by the
admission of the divorce record or the statutes of Indiana
upon the subject of divorce, or any inferences sought to be
drawn therefrom by counsel. Castle v Bulla d', 23 How
172, 189.
The prevailing opimon is that the error of admitting incompetent evidence may be cured by an instruction admonishing
the jury to disregard such evidence, even in a criminal case.
Ropt v Utah, 120 U S. 430, State v .fay, 4 Dev (Law), 330,
Goodnow v Hill, 125 Mass. 587, Smnth v TV
WlIman, 6 Allen,
562, -Hawesv Gusthn, 2 Allen, 402, Dillinr v People, 8 MichJgan, 357, Specht v Rowar"d, 16 Wall. 564.
V As connected with the admission of the divorce record,
counsel for plaintiff in error raise the point that Mr. Dexter
of counsel for plaintiff below made remarks outside the evidence, which had a tendency to prejudice the jury These
remarks are set forth quite extensively in the brief. The record shows that defendant's counsel objected to Mr. Dexter's
argument at the point where they allege he went outside the
evidence, and also shows that the court, upon this objection,
stated to Mr. Dexter that all that was in the declaration (petition for divorce) had been excluded by the court. There was
no further attempt by the counsel for plaintiff in error to have
Mr. Dexter confine his remarks to what they conceived was
in evidence. There was no suggestion to the court that it
should compel him to limit these remarks as they allege he
should have limited them, and there was no exception taken.
We contend that Mr. Dexter's remarks, being upon the allegations of the petition for divorce, were warranted because, in
our view, the allegation as to Mrs. Josephine Waldron was, as
we have heretofore shown, m evidence. But even granting

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

that he went outside of the evidence, we think the instructions
of the court have cured whatever injury might have been
done by these remarks. These instructions on the point of
the divorce record seem to us to completely do away with the
contention of plaintiff in error that she was injured by the
introduction of that evidence. It is an undemable rule of law
that, even if improper evidence is admitted, the court may
avoid the error by instructing the jury to disregard it. No
instructions could be clearer to that effect than those in this
case.
It would be utterly impossible to conduct without error a
trial of any case presenting a great mass of evidence with
many difficult points of ruling as to admissibility, if the court
could not at a later stage of the proceedings, by its explicit
admonitions, remove the effect of error which inadvertently
crept in.
It is no misconduct to urge the widest inferences from the
evidence. It is misconduct (not sufficient to warrant a new
trial, if corrected by the court in his instructions) to comment
upon matters not in evidence. I think no well-considered
case can be found where the verdict of the jury was interfered with because the attorney urged inferences from proper
evidence not warranted in the opinion of the court. To establish such a rule would be equivalent to saying that every
argument of attorneys engaged in a contest must be sound,
and as in every" such trial there are at least two such, we
would be reduced to the absurdity of holding that both must
be right, a conclusion often sound in a qualified sense, not in
the broad one in which it is sought to be here applied. The
practice and traditions of our profession, as well as the
rules of common sense, have established the right of each advocate to urge a jury to adopt the conclusion most favorable
to his client from the evidential facts, and has delegated to
the jury, and not to the court, the power to decide between
them. Therefore I submit, that if any party bad a right to
complain, it was the plaintiff, when the court, both upon trial
and in the instructions, so limited the effect of the divorce
record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinon of the Court.

MR. JUSTIOE WHrrE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss or affirm is without merit. The signing of the bill of exceptions after the expiration of the term,
at which the judgment was rendered, was lawful if done by
consent of parties given during that term. Hannicuttv Peyton, 102 U S. 333, Davs v Patzck, 122 U S. 138, Michigan Ins. Bank v Eldred, 143 U S. 293.
The fact that the bill of exceptions was not handed to
counsel for defendant on or before November 15, 1890, does
not appear of record, and if it did, it would be rendered
immaterial by the action of the judge below in settling the.
bill.
If the bill was not delivered to counsel within the time fixed
by the agreement, objection to the failure so to deliver it
should have been urged when the bill was settled. And if an
objection then taken was overruled, the question of the correctness of such action should have been then reserved. The
fact is, that the only reservation made in the settlement of
the bill is thus stated in the record "Counsel for plaintiff
move that the judge do not sign the same, because the defendant has not filed this bill of exceptions within the time prescribed
at the time the appeal was prayed." This,
of course, was not sound, in view of the agreement whereby
the time which had been at first fixed was extended. The
only question reserved in this connection is accordingly, also,
without merit. As to the contention that the appeal was
docketed too late, the defendant in error is precluded from
relying thereon by reason of his motion here for a new bond,
long after the entry of the case on the docket of this court,
which was made at the return term.
Whether the concluding words in the bill of exceptions,
"which was all the testimony offered on the trial of the
cause," would be treated as meaning all the evidence, if unexplained by the context of the bill, need not be considered,
as all the recitals in the bill, from the caption to the end
thereof, taken together, we think, conclusively show that the.

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Opinion of the Court.

words, "all the testimony," were used as synonymous with

"all the evidence." This conclusion is strengthened by the
fact that the bill was settled contradictorily, and no reservation as to its incompleteness was made.
Coming then to consider the record, we find that the assignments of error here are of a threefold nature (a) those which
relate to the conclusions of law reached by the court upon the
merits of the controversy, (b) those which complain of perversion and misuse by counsel of evidence admitted, which it
is alleged were so serious that they must have affected the
minds of the jury, to such an extent as to render the verdict
and judgment necessarily reversible, and (c) those which rest
upon the alleged rejection of legal and admission of illegal
evidence.
We will first approach the investigation of the matters mentioned under the second heading, since if the complaint of perversion and misuse of evidence is justified, it is not necessary
to consider whether the rulings on the admissibility of testimony or the final conclusions of law, upon the merits, were
correct.
The complaint of the conduct of counsel in argument is
substantially predicated upon the following analysis of the
facts, which we find borne out by the record. In the opening
statement of counsel for plaintiff, portions of the divorce proceedings were read to the jury, counsel saying, among other
things "Here was an allegation that she has enticed him
from his home, and the divorce was granted upon that ground
among others, that is, the decree finds that the facts in the
complaint were proved and that the divorce was granted upon
that ground." When the record of the divorce proceedings
was offered by the plaintiff objection was made thereto, and
thereupon the court admitted it to prove the fact of the
divorce alone, expressly limiting it to such purpose, and forbidding the reading or stating to the jury any of the averments found in the petition which in any way reflected upon
the defendant. When the statute of Indiana was admitted,
over objection, its introduction was allowed solely for the purpose of showing the law under which the divorce was granted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Having thus obtained the admission of the record and the
statute for qualified and restricted purposes, plaintiff's counsel,
in their closing argument to the jury, used these instruments
of evidence for the general purposes of their case, repeated to
the jury some of the averments in the petition which assailed
the plaintiff's character, and put those allegations in juxtaposition with the statute of Indiana on the subject of divorce
and the testimony of certain witnesses, in order to produce
the impression upon the minds of the jury that the decree of
divorce had been granted on the ground of adultery between
the defendant and Waldron. Indeed, the fact is that the
counsel after referring the jury to the evidence which was
not in the record stated to them, in effect, that it established
the fact, or authorized the fair inference that the decree of
divorce had been rendered on the ground of adultery with
Mrs. Alexander, and therefore conclusively established the
right of the plaintiff to recover in the present case. It is unnecessary to say that all this is ground for reversal, unless its
legal effect be in some way overcome. It is elementary that
the admission of illegal evidence, over objection, necessitates
reversal, and it is equally well established that the assertion
by counsel, in argument, of facts, no evidence whereof is properly before the jury, in such a way as to seriously prejudice
the opposing party, is, when duly excepted to, also ground
therefor. Fai-man v Lanman, 73 Indiana, 568, Brow v
State, 103 Indiana, 133, Bullock v ,Snth et al., 15 Georgia,
395, Dickerson, v Burke, 25 Georgia, 2 5, Lloyd v H. &
St. J Railroad, 53 Missouri, 509, Wightman v Provdence,
1 Cliff. 524, .Martin v Orndorff, 22 Iowa, 504, Tucker v
Hlenniker, 41 N. HI. 317, Jenkins v N C. Ore Dresszng Co.,
65 N. C. 563, State v Williams, 65 N. C. 505, Hof v Crafton, '79 N. 0. 592, Yoe v People, 49 Illinois, 410, Saunders
v Baaxter, 53 Tennessee, 369.
The foregoing conclusions are not disputed by the defendant here, but she seeks to avoid their application as follows
First, by denying the right of the plaintiff in error to raise the
question, upon the ground that no exception was reserved to
the misuse by counsel of the evidence which is complained of,

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Opinion of the Court.

secondly, by asserting that the misuse did not take place, and
that the assertion thereof in the bill of exceptions is erroneous
and "inadvertent," thirdly, by admitting that use was made
of the various items of evidence mentioned in argument, and
contending that this was not a misuse, because the evidence
was legally admissible for all the purposes of the cause, and
was therefore properly so used, and, finally, by insisting that,
even if use was made of alleged facts, evidence whereof had
been expressly excluded, and which were not, therefore, before,
the jury, the wrong thus committed by counsel was cured by
the final charge of the court, and therefore does not give rise
to reversible error. Without pausing to consider the palpableinconsistency of these various contentions, we pass to the consideration of their correctness.
The claim that no exception was reserved to the misuse of
testimony is founded on the proposition that, as the objection,
made by defendant, to the record and statute was to their
admissibility in any form or for any purpose, and as they were
admissible to show the fact of divorce, the objection, being
general, was not well taken. To state this argument is to
answer it. It is clear that where evidence is admitted for one
certain purpose, and that only, the mere fact that its admission
was not objected to at the time, does not authorize the use of
it for other purposes for which it was not, 'or could have
been legally introduced. The right of the defendant below
to object to the perversion and misuse of the evidence depends.
upon whether objection was duly reserved thereto and not
upon whether exception was taken to the admissibility of the
evidence which, it is asserted, was misused. That exception
was here taken to the misuse of the evidence is plain. At the
close of the case, when reference was made by one of the
counsel for the plaintiff to the record and to the Indiana statute, and the other matters connected therewith, the following
exception was reserved
"Mr. McCoy, counsel for defendant, further objected to the
statements of counsel for the plaintiff to the jury as to the laws
of Indiana and the suit for divorce, and the argument that it
must have been granted upon the grounds alleged in the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

plaint in the divorce proceedings which reflected upon the
character of the defendant Josephine P Alexander, and then
and there duly excepted to such statements."
It is true that when, in the closing argument for the plaintiff, made by other counsel, similar language was used and
objected to. no exception was reserved. This, however, is
immaterial, as exception was reserved to the language, first
used, and this one exception, if well taken, must lead to
reversal.
The contention that the prejudicial averments in the petition for divorce were not conveyed to the jury is thus argued
True, the bill of exceptions shows that they were so conveyed.
but, because this statement is in direct conflict with the rulings
of the court, therefore the statement, in the bill of exceptions,
would seem to be an inadvertence. In other words, the argument is that the bill of exceptions must be disregarded on the
theory that, if the facts stated in the bill be true, error results,
and error isnot to be presumed.
The remaining suggestions are quite as unsound as the specious one we have just considered. The divorce proceeding
and statute, it is asserted, were admissible for all purposes,
because there was evidence tending to show that the divorce
was inspired by Waldron in connivance with the defendant
below, and because such proceedings were part of the 9'es
gestce, etc., etc. Whatever weight these propositions may
intrinsically possess need not be considered, since the question
we are examining is, not whether the divorce proceedings
should have been admitted, for the general purposes of the
cause, but whether, having been rejected by the court for such
purposes, it was competent for the plaintiff to use them in
direct violation of the restriction placed upon their use. If
error was committed in restricting the use of the evidence, the
plaintiff's remedy was to except thereto, and not to disregard
the ruling of the court and use the evidence in violation of
the conditions under which its admission was secured.
We come now to the last contention, which is this, that, conceding misuse was made of the record and other evidence, yet,
as the misuse was corrected by the final charge of the court,

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Opinion of the Court.

therefore the error was cured. Undoubtedly it is not only the
right but the duty of a court to correct an error arising from
the erroneous admission of evidence when the error is discovered, and when such correction is made, it is equally clear
that, as a general rule, the cause of reversal is thereby
removed. State v May, 4 Dev (Law) 330, Goodnow v Hill,
125 Mass. 687, 589, Smzth v Whitman, 6 Allen, 562, Hawes
v Gustin, 2 Allen, 402, 406, .Dillin v People, 8 Michigan,
357, 369, Specht v Howard,16 Wall. 564. There is an exception, however, to this general rule, by virtue of which the
curative effect of the correction, in any particular instance,
depends upon whether or not, considering the whole case and
its particular circumstances, the error committed appears to
have been of so serious a nature that it must have affected
the minds of the jury despite the correction by the court.
The rule and its exception were considered in Hopt v Utah,
120 U. S. 430, 438, where the foregoing authorities were cited,
and the principle was thus stated by Mr. Justice Field "But,
independently of this consideration as to the admissibility of
the evidence, if it was erroneously admitted its subsequent
withdrawal from the case with its acqpmpanymg instruction
cured the error. It is true that in some instances there may
be such strong impressions made upon the minds of the jury
by illegal and improper testimony that its subsequent withdrawal will not remove the effect caused by its admission,
and in that case the original objection may avail on appeal or
writ of error. But such instances are exceptional."
The case here, we think, comes within the exception. The
charge made in the complaint was a very grave one, seriously
affecting the character of the defendant below The record
wnch was admitted for a limited purpose had no tendency to
establish her guilt of that charge, if used only for the object
for which it was allowed to be introduced. This is also true
of the Indiana statute, and of the other testimony relating to
the divorce proceeding. The admission of the record and
other testimony having been thus obtained, in the closing
argument for plaintiff, all the restrictions imposed by the
court were transgressed, and the evidence was used by counsel

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

in order to accomplish the very purpose for which its use had
been forbidden at the time of its admission.
Indeed, when the statements made by plaintiff's counsel in
opening are considered, it seems clear that the failure to
obtain the admission of the divorce proceedings in full left
the case in such a condition that much of the subsequent
testimony introduced, while it proved nothing intrinsically,
was well adapted to fortify unlawful statements which might
thereafter be made in reference to those proceedings. Thus,
the case in its entire aspect was seemingly conducted m such
a manner as to render the illegal use of evidence possible
and to cause the harmful consequences arising therefrom to
permeate the whole record and render the verdict erroneous.
Our conviction in this regard is fortified by the fact that
although the unauthorized use of the evidence occurred in the
final argument of the counsel for plaintiff, who first addressed
the jury, and was then and there objected to and exception
reserved, the same line of argument, in an aggravated form,
was resorted to by the counsel who followed in closing the
case. Indeed, the language of this counsel invited the jury to
disregard the finding of the court, by looking beneath the
facts which were lawfully in evidence.
As the fact of divorce was confessed by the pleadings, and,
besides, was admitted by counsel for defendant in open court,
we are of opinion that the divorce record was inadmissible,
because of irrelevancy We also consider that the statute of
Indiana was not admissible for any purpose. We have not
rested our decree upon the question of the admissibility of
this evidence, because the mere illegal introduction of irrelevant evidence does not necessarily constitute reversible error,
and hence we have been compelled to consider, not alone the
admission of the irrelevant evidence, but also the illegal use
which was made of it.
Judgment 'reversed,an'd cause remanded, with direct-ions to
set aside the ver'dict and grant a new trzal.

