THE ROLLER MILL PATENT.
Statement of the Case.

of this opportunity of cross-examination deprived the accused
of the right to impeach the witness by independent proof of
those statements, and thus, while the death of the witness
did not deprive the government of the benefit of his testimony
against the accused, it did deprive the latter of the right to
prove that the testimony of the witness was untrustworthy
By this ruling the court below rejected evidence of a positive character, testified to by witnesses to be produced and
examined before the jury, upon a mere conjecture that a
deceased witness might, if alive, reiterate his former testimony
It would seem to be a wiser policy to give the accused the
benefit of evidence, competent in its character, than to reject
it for the sake of a supposition so doubtful.
The judgment of the court below ought to be reversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to set aside the verdict
and award a new trial.

THE ROLLER MILL PATENT. I
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 70. Argued November 12, 1894. -Decided February 4, 1895.

The invention protected by letters patent No. 222,895, issued December 23,
1879, to William D. Gray for improvements in roller mills, is not
infringed by the machine used by the defendant in error.
Letters patent No. 238,677 issued March 8, 1881, to William D. Gray for
improvements in roller mills, are void for want of novelty.

THIS was a bill in equity filed by the Consolidated Roller
Mill Company against the Barnard & Leas Manufacturing
Company, for the infringement of four letters patent for certain improvements in roller mills, viz., patent No. 222,895,
issued December 23, 1879, to William D Gray, patent No.
1 The docket title of this case is "The Consolidated Boller Xill Company v. The Barnard& Leas Manufacturing Company." On the suggestion
of the court, a shorter title is adopted for convenience of reference.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

238,677, issued March 8, 1881, to the same person, reissued
patent No. 10,139, issued June 20, 1882, to U H. Odell,
patent No. 269,623, issued December 26, 1882, to Hans
Birkholz. As plaintiff asked for a decree only upon the Gray
patents, the others will not be further noticed.
The invention covered by patent No. 222,895 "consists in
a peculiar construction and arrangement of devices for adjusting the rolls vertically as well as horizontally, whereby any
unevenness in the wear of the rolls or their journals or
bearings may be compensated for, and the grinding or crushing surface kept exactly in line." In his specification the
patentee states that "in the use of roller mills it is found that
the roller bearings wear unequally at opposite ends, and also
that they wear more rapidly on the under than on the upper
side, and that, consequently, the rolls lose their parallelism
and their proper vertical height. It is to overcome these
difficulties that the present invention is designed, and to this
end the parts are constructed and arranged as represented in
the accompanying drawings," the most important one of
which is here given.

THE ROLLER MILL PATENT.
Statement of the Case.

The mill shown and described in the patent consisted
substantially of the frame A, the roller B revolving in fixed
bearings, and the companion roller 0, journalled at its ends,
and revolving in a swinging arm or support, D, pivoted at its
lower end upon a bolt, E, thus enabling the roll to be swung
toward or away from the stationary roll B, as required. In
order that the arm or support D might be adjusted vertically,
and the roll 0 thereby lifted or lowered, the bolt E was
mounted upon an eccentric sleeve, F, such sleeve being furnished with a suitable head to receive a wrench by which
to adjust it. "By turning the sleeve F the arm may be
moved up or down, as desired, and when the adjustment has
been made the sleeve is clamped firmly in place by means
of the bolt E, which draws its end against the main frame,
the sleeve then becoming the pivot or journal on which the
arms or supports D move when being adjusted horizontally"
To provide for an adjustment of the rollers to and from
each other horizontally, a rod, G, was extended from the
stationary bearing a at each side of the machine to the upper
end of the swinging arm or support ID on the same side. The
upper end of each arm or swinging box D is formed with
an enlarged spring case or chamber, h, perforated on its inner
side to permit the passage of the rod or stem G through it, a
strong spring, H, being placed in said chamber, and retained
therein by means of a washer or plate, 'i, placed upon the rod
and held against the spring by a wheel-nut, j, which screws
upon the threaded end of the rod or bolt G, and is in turn
held by a jam-nut, k. By turning the nut-wheels, the spring
Hi is compressed, the roll C is crowded toward the roll B, and
at the same time the bearing D is held firmly against the nut
1, and the additional jam-nut m. The spring H is designed
to permit the swinging roller to give way, in case a stone
or nail or other hard substance is caught between the rolls,
after the passage of which, the roll, with the aid of the
spring, returns at once to its place.
To permit the ready separation of the rolls, the end of
the rod G, where it passes through the fixed bearing a, has a
shoulder, n, abutting against such bearing, and acting as a

OCTOBER TERM,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

stop. On the other side of the bearing is a nut, 0, threaded
on the rod G. By releasing or partially turning off the nut 0
the roll C is allowed to fall back, and move away from the
roll B, but by again turning up the nut the shoulder n is
brought back accurately to its original position. An eccentric
is shown in Fig. 8 as an equivalent of the nut 0.
Plaintiff claimed an infringement of the fourth, fifth, and
sixth claims of this patent, which were as follows.
"4. In combination with the movable roller bearing, the
rod G, adjustable stop device to limit the inward movement
of the bearing, an outside spring urging the bearing inward,
and adjusting devices, substantiallv as shown, to regulate the
tension of the spring.
"5. In combination with the roller bearing, the adjusting
rod provided at one end with a stop to limit the inward
movement, a spring, and means for adjusting the latter, and
provided at the other end with a stop and holding device,
substantially as shown and described.
"6. The combination of the bearing D, rod G, nut 1, spring
II nuty, stop n, and nut 0"

Patent No. 238,677 exhibits a roller mill substantially
identical with that of the former patent except in the
spreading device, which consists of an eccentric shaft carrying two eccentrics, by which the two ends of the roll are
spread at one motion. Each of these shafts is provided with
an arm, to which a rod is connected, so that the moving rod
simultaneously moved both ends of the movable rolls.
The patentee states the operation of his device as follows
"By moving the rod K, which may be done from either side
of the machine, all the eccentrics are operated simultaneously

THE ROLLER MILL PATENT.
Opnion of the Court.

and the movable rolls thrown instantly into or out of an operative position, and this without destroying the adjustment of
the parts which control the exact position of rolls when they
are in action."
Plaintiff relies only upon the infringement of the second
and third claims, which are as follows
2. "In combination with the swinging roll-supports E and
the rods G connected therewith, the eccentrics H, shafts I,
and rod K.
3. "In combination with movable roll-supports E and the
rods G adjustably connected thereto, a transverse shaft, I, provided with two eccentrics connected to the rods G at opposite
ends of one roll, whereby the roll may be thrown into and out
of action instantly without changing the adjusting devices."
Upon a hearing in the Circuit Court upon pleadings and
proofs, the bill was dismissed, and plaintiff appealed.
Mr George -. Latkrop for appellant.
Mr Robert H. Parkzqmon for appellee.
MR. JusrTio

BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
From time immemorial wheat has been reduced to flour by
grinding it between heavy disks of stone set upon a shaft, the
upper one of which revolved, while the nether one remained
stationary The grain being introduced through an opening
m the centre of the upper stone, was ground between the
burred surfaces of the stones, and gradually found its way outward, until it was discharged from the periphery or skirt of
the stones in the form of flour. This ancient method has
within the past twenty years given place to a system of
crushing between rollers, which appears to have originated
in Buda-Pesth in the kingdom of Hungary, and to have been
the subject of several foreign patents. These roller mills,
which, soon after their invention, were introduced into this
country, and have practically superseded in all large flouring

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

mills the older method of grinding, consist generally of two
or more pairs of rollers, mounted in a strong frame, and lying,
as a rule, in the same horizontal plane. One of these rolls is
fixed, and journalled in a stationary bearing. The other is
mounted upon an adjustable bearing, which permits it to
yield or give way in case any hard substance enters between
the rollers. It is also capable of a slight vertical adjustment,
to maintain the exact parallelism of the rolls. While these
rolls are not in actual contact when grinding, they are very
nearly so, and their adjustment is a matter of extreme nicety
That the grains of wheat may be ground to a fine powder, as
well as crushed, the rolls must be slightly corrugated like the
ancient burr stones, and must run at different speeds. Their
action thus has the tearing effect necessary to reduce the
grain to flour. The rolls must be so close together as to
reduce the wheat to a fine flour, and at the same time they
must not touch, or their surfaces would be ruined.
In order to secure the successful operation of these machines, provision must be made for 1. A vertical adjustment,
to bring the axes of the two rolls into the same horizontal
plane, so that, in case of irregular wearing of their surfaces
or bearings, the axes may be brought exactly in line. This
If the adjustment were
is called the adjustment for "tram."
defective in this particular, the rolls would grind finer at the
centre than at either end, or finer at one end than at the other.
2. A horizontal grinding adjustment, by which the distance
between the two rolls is kept precisely the same their entire
length, while the rolls are in operation, so that they may not
grind unequally at any point. 3. A spring device, by which
the rolls are made to yield to a breaking strain, whenever a
nail or other hard substance enters between them. 4. A stop
and holding device, by which the rolls are spread apart when
not in operation, and are thrown together again precisely as
before, without a new adjustment. The object of the patent
in suit was to provide the means for such vertical and horizontal adjustments, the requisites of such adjustments, except
the third, being that they must be fixed and permanent. The
object of the third was merely to prevent injury to the rolls

THE ROLLER MILL PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

by the entrance of a hard substance, after the passage of which
they returned immediately to their former position.
The patent contains seven claims, the second and third of
which refer to the device for adjusting the rolls vertically
as well as horizontally, while the fourth and fifth, which are
the most material in the consideration of this case, refer to the
special devices connected with the rod G for supporting the
rolls.
To understand accurately the scope of the Gray invention,
it is necessary to consider some of the principal foreign
patents, as well as the history of the Gray patent in the
Patent Office, and the limitations which were imposed by it,
and accepted by him before the patent was granted. In his
original application, made in July, 1879, Gray stated his
invention to consist "Im devices for adjusting the rolls vertically, as well as horizontally, whereby any unevenness in the
wear of the rolls, or their journals or bearings, may be compensated for, and the grinding or crushing surfaces kept
exactly in line," and also "in the devices for separating the
rolls when not in action," and in other details. His claims
corresponded with his evident belief that he was the inventor
broadly of devices for a roller adjustment, both vertical and
horizontal, and were as follows
"1. In combination with the stationary roll B, the adjustable roll C, mounted in rocking supports, the pivots of which
are located in advance of the journals of the roll, substantially
as described.
"2. In combination with a stationary roll, an adjustable
roll mounted substantially in the manner described, whereby
it may be adjusted, both vertically and horizontally
"3. In a roller-grinding mill, a roll mounted at its ends
in arms or supports arranged to be independently adjusted,
both vertically and horizontally, substantially in the manner
described.
"4. In a combination with the roll C, the independent
arms or supports D, mounted upon eccentrics, substantially
as shown, whereby either end of the roll may be adjusted
vertically

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

"5. In combination with the stationary roll B and adjustable roll 0, means, substantially such as described, for drawing
the roll C to a fixed point."
His application in this form was refused by the Commissioner of Patents in a letter of August 14, 1879, notifying
Gray that his invention was not generic, in view of the
English patent No. 3328, of 1877, and suggesting that the
specification needed revision, making it a clear description of
a specific means employed by applicant. In reply to this
letter, Gray immediately amended his application by two
insertions in the preamble, so that instead of reading "my
invention consists in devices for adjusting the rolls vertically
as well as horizontally," it reads "consists in a peculiar constructsom and arrangement of devices for adjusting the rolls
vertically as well as horizontally," and by inserting the word
"special" before the words "devices for separating the rolls
when not in action." He also withdrew all his claims and
substituted others, limiting his invention to the particular
combinations described in his specification.
The English patent to Lake, to which the Patent Office
made reference in its letter of August 19, was one of a series
of patents issued in different countries to cover certain inventions of one Nemelka, of Simmering, Austria, upon which he
obtained two patents in Austria, January 15 and May 22,
1875, a patent in France, June 23, 1875, a patent in England, issued to Lake, February 28, 1878, and a patent in the
United States, November 12, 1878. While these patents have
a general resemblance to each other, the different forms
which Nemelka's inventions took are best shown in the patent
to Lake, which may also be taken as representing most truly
the state of the art at the time the Gray patent was issued.
It would serve no useful purpose to analyze and compare the
different shapes which the Nemelka machines took in the
Lake patent. The drawings are confused, badly lettered, and
difficult to understand. No less than four different forms of
the mechanism are shown, varying as among themselves, but
all containing provisions for vertical and horizontal adjustments. The machine shown in figures 11, 12, 13, and 15

THE ROLLER MILL PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

exhibits a roll vertically adjustable by a set screw underneath
it, and adjustable horizontally for parallelism by a sliding
bracket, which also supports the bearing of a shaft working
in an eccentric journal, and operated by a lever pivoted upon
the shaft, by the movement of which the rolls are opened
when not in operation. Other forms of the patent apparently
show, though somewhat imperfectly, a capability of yielding
to spring pressure by means of an india-rubber buffer located
at the lower end of a long descending arm of the movable
bearing. An exhibit known as Die Miblie also shows very
plainly a spring arrangement similarly located by which the
movable roll is made to yield to a sudden pressure. Indeed,
the Nemelka machines contain devices obviously adopted from
earlier and less perfect forms. But as the lemelka patents
exhibit completely the state of the art at the time the Gray
patents were taken out, nothing will be gained by reference
to prior or other patents.
Gray's improvement consisted in the invention of the rod
G, connecting it at either end with the bearing of one of the
two rolls, and placing upon one end or the other of it the
three forms of horizontal adjustment, leaving the vertical
adjustment to be provided for by an eccentric located at the
lower end of the swinging bearing D The devices certainly
appear to an advantage, as compared with those shown in the
lemelka patents, and were apparently the first in this country
to supersede the ancient millstones, but, after all, they are
only special devices for the more perfect and convenient
accomplishment of the same, or practically the same, results.
It is not a pioneer patent, and is not entitled to that liberality
of construction which would have been accorded to it had
Gray been the first to devise a scheme for these several adjustments. An examination of the specification and claims of
this patent shows the essence of his invention to be the rod
G, connecting the bearings of the rollers, with its several
provisions for horizontal adjustment as stated in the fourth
and fifth claims. These claims are practically for a combination of (1) a movable roller bearing, (2) the rod G, (3) an
adjustable stop device to limit the inward movement of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

bearing, (4) an outside spring, urging the bearing inward;
(5) means for adjusting the spring, and (6) a stop and holding device at the opposite end of the rod from the spring.
In defendant's machine the same results are brought about,
but in a manner which suggests the Nemelka as strongly as
the Gray patent. As in the Nemelka patents, the vertical
adjustment is accomplished by a set screw, (instead of theeccentric used by Gray,) located at the lower end of the
swinging bearing, by the turning of which the bearing is
raised or lowered. But as the vertical adjustment cuts no
figure in the consideration of this case, it need not be further
considered. Parallelism is also secured by horizontal set
screws as in the Kemelka devices. There is no rod G connecting the two bearings in the defendant's machine, nor anything that can be said to be a mechanical equivalent for it, as,
a special device for securing the horizontal adjustments. In
lieu of this rod, there is at each end of the adjustable roller,
an upright rod, encircled by a spiral spring. This spring is
operated by a nut which presses upon a horizontal arm of thebearing through which the rod passes. The screwing down
or tightening of this nut tends to separate the adjustable roll
from its companion, while, if it be loosened, the resilience of
the spring pressing upon the under side of the horizontal arm
forces the roll back to its place. While this is an snszde
spring and not an "out szd e " one, its effect in urging the bearing snward is similar to that of the spring in Gray's patent.
This spring is also capable of yielding to a sudden pressure
by which the adjustable roll is forced back and separated
from its companion, by the passage of any hard substance,
and of resuming its original tension after such hard substance
has passed between the rolls. There are also two nuts at the
lower end of the spiral spring corresponding in position to the
adjusting nut 1, and jam nut rn, of the Gray patent, although
they apparently lack their function in limiting the action of
the spring. The stop and spreading device is not connected
at all with the rod, which is supposed to correspond with the
rod G of the Gray patent, but is located at the bottom of
the swinging bearing, and is operated by a lever applied to-

THE ROLLER IMILL PATENT.
Opinion of the Court.

an eccentric shaft, as in the lemelka patent. The resemblance between the two devices, upon which the charge of
infringement must ultimately rest, is in the correspondence
of the upright rod with its encircling spiral spring with the.
-rod G of the Gray patent. While m one, and perhaps two
particulars, it may be said to perform the same function, it
certainly has not the stop and holding device of the Gray
patent, it is not a horizontal rod, it is not located above the.
rollers, it does not connect the bearings of the two rollers
together, it does not contain any stop and holding device,
and, in so far as it accomplishes the same functions as the rod
G, it accomplishes them m a manner suggested rather by the
Lake than by the Gray patent. Upon the whole, we think
the Circuit Court was correct in holding that defendant'smachine was not an infringement of the Gray patent.
Should this device be adjudged an infringement, we should
not know where to draw the line, providing the alleged
infringing device accomplished the four results.
If defendant is not held as an infringer of this patent, it.
cannot be held as an infringer of patent No. 238,677. The
mechanism for simultaneously moving both ends of two rolls,
which forms the combination of the second claim, and that.
for moving the two ends of one roll simultaneously, which is
covered by the third claim, were found by the court below to
have been anticipated in the Nemelka patent, and we see no
reason for questioning the finding in that particular.
The decree of the court below in dismissing the bill is.
therefore
Aflrmed.

