OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

York, acting as judge of the Circuit Court of the United States.
for the Southern District of New York, to resettle the bill of
exceptions in a certain cause lately pending in said Circuit
Court, and tried before that judge, wherein the United States
were plaintiffs and Louis F Streep was defendant, as to a certain request to charge, "according to the truth as the same
appears by the stenographer's minutes taken on the trial," in
respect of which request to charge affidavits to the effect that
the bill of exceptions as settled and signed by the judge was.
incorrect accompanied the application.
Applicant had previously moved in the Circuit Court for
such resettlement of the bill of exceptions, and the motion
had been denied.
.Xr Franke Warner Angel for the petitioner.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, after making the above statement, said
The application for leave to file a petition for mandamus is
denied. E _parte Bradstreet, 4 Pet. 102, Chateaugay i'on
Co., Pet oner, 128 U S.544, 557.

LINDSAY v. BURGESS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE,

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 191. Submitted January 25, 1895.-Decided January 28, 1895.

The assignment in this court of errors to portions of the charge in an
action below raises no question for the consideration of this court,
unless exceptions were duly taken to them.

The court below in its charge to the jury said
"This is an action of ejectment in which the plaintiff claims
the legal title to and seeks to recover 5000 acres of land lying
in Campbell County, Tennessee. She deraigned her title to
the land as follows On the 2d of August, 1836, said tract of
land was entered by Joshua English, Samuel Burgess, and
Joseph Peterson by entry No. 843. Subsequent thereto, in_
EJECTMENT.

LINDSAY v. BURGESS.
Statement of the Case.

1838, said English and Burgess removed from Tennessee to
Missouri, where they continued to reside till their respective
deaths. On August 26, 1845, a grant from the State of Tennessee, numbered 25,338, was issued to 'Joshua English and
others' for said 5000-acre tract. This grant has been read in
evidence. Joshua English died in 1850, leaving the plaintiff,
then the wife of said Samuel Burgess, as his sole surviving
child and heir-at-law Plaintiff's husband died in July, 1874.
The court instructs you that said grants from the State of
Tennessee vested the legal title to the five thousand acres of
land therein described in said Joshua English only, and that
upon his death said title descended and vested in plaintiff as
The defendants seek to defeat
his sole heir-at-law
They set up a tax deed from the sheriff of
her title.
Oampbell County, bearing date December 8, 1845, and registered in May, 1846, which it is claimed operates to divest the
title out of plaintiff's father, Joshua English, and vest it in
the purchasers under said sheriff's tax deed, through whom
the defendants derive title, and, secondly, that under claim
of right and color of title they have had seven years' adverse
possession of the land in controversy before the present suit
was commenced, which adverse possession, under the operation of the Tennessee statutes of limitation, vested them with
the title to the land. No question is raised as to the location
or identity of the land in controversy It is conceded that
the tract described in the grant and in plaintiff's declaration
is the same tract that defendants claim under said tax deed and
by virtue of their adverse possession.
"The court instructs you that the tax deed introduced and
relied on by defendants is not sufficient to show or establish
title to the land, that said tax deed is null and void upon its
face and inoperative to divest plaintiff's title."
Verdict for defendant and judgment on the verdict, to
which a writ of error was sued out. In this court the assignments of error were: (1) The court erred in charging the
jury that the grant relied on by plaintiff below vested title
to the land in her ancestor solely (2) The court erred in
charging the jury that the tax deed relied on by defendants
VOL. CLV-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

is void upon its face
to such instructions.

but the record contained no exception

2Hr W A. Henderson and Mr Leon Jourolomon for plain
tiffs in error.
-Mr lTr P
ashbu9'n and Mr Jerome Temleton for defendant in error.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE Errors are assigned to certain portions
of the charge to the jury in this case, but no exceptions were
preserved thereto, and no question otherwise raised for our
consideration. The judgment is, therefore,
Aflrmed.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE COMPANY v. BALTIMORE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
No. 828. Submitted January 21, 1895. -Decided

January 28, 1895.

St. Louts v. Western Unton Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92, affirmed and applied to
this case.

THis was an action at law, brought by the city of Baltimore,
defendant in error, against The Postal Telegraph Cable Company, plaintiff in error, a corporation created under the laws
of the State of New York, in the Court of Common Pleas of
Baltimore City, a court of original common law jurisdiction,
to recover the sum of $1018.00, with interest from the 15th
day of June, 1893, the same being an annual rental fee for
the use of the streets of Baltimore, of $2.00 per pole, for 50a
telegraph poles, which were owned by the plaintiff in error,
and located in and occupying a portion of the public streets
of Baltimore. The rental fee was the amount prescribed by
Ordinance No. 86 of 1893, to be paid by all compames which

