OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. BERDAN FIRE-ARMS MANUFACTURING COMPANY
BERDAN FIRE-ARMS MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 128, 135. Argued January 7',8, 1895.-Decidtd March 4, 1895.
Even if there were findings sufficient to show that the United States had in
any manner infringed letters patent No. 52,925, granted February 27, 1866,
to Hiram Berdan for an improvement in breech-loading fire-arms, in the
absence of anything disclosing a contract the use would be a tort, creating no cause of action cognizable in the Court of Claims.
Where several elements, no one of which is novel, are united in a combination which is the subject of a patent, and these several elements are thereafter united-with another element into a new combination, and this new
combination performs a work which the patented combination could not
perform, there is no infringement.
As to letters patent No. 88,436, granted to Hiram Berdan March 30, 1869, for
an improvement in breech-loading fire-arms, it appears that the use of that
invention was with the consent and in accordance with the wish of the
inventor and the Berdan Company and with the thought of compensation
therefor, which facts, taken in connection with other facts referred to
in the opinion, establish a contractual relation between the parties sufficient to give the Court of Claims jurisdiction.
The contract was not a contract to pay at the expiration of the patent, but
the right to recover accrued with each use, and the statute of limitations
is applicable to all uses of the invention prior to six years before the commencement of the action.
The Court of Claims did not err in fixing the amount of the royalty.
THESE are cross-appeals from a judgment of the Court of
Claims, entered December 8, 1890, in favor of the petitioner
against the United States, for the sum of $95,004.36. The
case as it was presented in the Court of Claims contained two
distlnct causes of action, each founded upon a patent issued to
Hiram Berdan and by him assigned to petitioner. The first
patent was dated February 27, 1866, being No. 52,925, and
entitled "improvement in breech-loading fire-arms." The

UNITED STATES v. BERDANI

FIRE-ARMS 00.

553

Statement of the Case.
second was dated March 30, 1869, being No. 88,436, and entitled in the same way The court found against the petitioner
in respect to the first cause of action, and in its favor on the
second. The findings of facts made by that court are quite
voluminous, and it would needlessly encumber this statement
to quote them all at length.
In reference to the first of these causes of action it will be
sufficient to note these facts, taken from the findings, and
which present all that is necessary for a determination of the
questions involved. In January, 1866, the Secretary of War
convened a board of officers of the army, of which General
Hancock was named as president. This board, known as the
Hancock board, was " ordered to examine thoroughly the
following questions and make recommendations thereon
"1(1) What form and caliber of breech-loading arm should
be adopted as a model for future construction of muskets for
infantry 2
"1(2) What form and caliber should be adopted as a model
for future construction of carbines for cavalry 2
"(3) What form of breech-loading arm should be adopted
as a model for changes of muskets, already constructed, to
breech-loading muskets 2
"Each person who submits an arm to the above board will
be required to state in writing the lowest price at which it
will be furnished in the event of its being adopted by the
government."
It met at Washington on March 10, 1866. In the same
month it issued a circular to the public, with the following
blank form of proposal, to be signed by those presenting arms
for trial
C
,
of
, being the proprietor of the
patent right to manufacture a breech-loading arm, known as
heirs, executors, and assigns, to
,do hereby bind
grant to the United States government, if called on within
three years from this date to make such grant, the right to
manufacture the aforesaid breech-loading arm on the follow,
ing terms, viz.
of
dollar per arm for the
"For payment to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

privilege of manufacturing fifty thousand, of dollar
per arm for the privilege of manufacturing one hundred thousand, of dollar per arm for the privilege of manufacturing two hundred thousand, and of dollar per
arm for the privilege of manufacturing any additional number
of arms, provided, that when the government shall have paid
the total amount dollars, counting each and every payment, then it shall have the full and entire privilege of manufacturingpatented arms, for its own use, without
further payment to on account of patent right.
Each payment, as above specified, to be made for not less
than five thousand arms. Or, by the payment of
dollars within three years from this date, the privilege of
manufacturing as many arms as may be desired shall be
granted to the United States."
In response to the circular the petitioner, among others, on,
March 27, 1866, forwarded a communication, a part of which
is as follows
"The Berdan Fire-arms Co., of New York, New York, being
the proprietor of the patent right to manufacture a breechloading arm known as the Berdan breech-loader, do hereby
bind ourselves, heirs, executors, and assigns, to grant to the
United States government, if called on within three years
from this date to make such grant, the right to manufacture
the aforesaid breech-loading arms on the following terms,
viz.
"For payment to us of two dollars per arm for the privilege of manufacturing fifty thousand, of one and threequarters dollars per arm for the privilege of manufacturing
qne hundred thousand, of one and one-half dollars per arm
for privilege of manufacturing two hundred thousand, and
of one and one-quarter dollars per arm for the privilege of
manufacturing any additional number of arms."
Later, and on May 21, 1866, it presented a gun, called No.

4, which, while similar in many respects to the one described
in the specifications and drawings of the patent No. 52,925,
differed in others. One of such differences is thus stated in
the latter part of the fifth finding

UNITED STATES v. BERDAN FIRE-ARMS CO.

555

Statement of the Case.

"A friction plunger (which did not exist in the patented
gun) was placed in the gun (No. 4) shown the Hancock
board, this plunger appeared in the middle of the bottom
of the breech-receiver, close to the barrel's mouth, and was so
placed that when the gun was loaded the spring was held up
against the cartridge head and in contact with it by a flat
spring placed underneath the barrel. The friction plunger
was introduced for the reason stated m finding XIHI."
Finding No. 8 is as follows
"June 4, 1866, the said board of officers concluded its
labors and made a final report to the Secretary of War,
which contained this recommendation and statement, namely"
'Fourth. This board recommends the plan of alteration submitted by H. Berdan. This gives the stable breech pin,
secures the piece against premature discharge, and involves
only a slight change of our present pattern of arms.'
In finding No. 9 is this statement.
"No gun has been bought by the government from defendants (petitioner 2) and no gun has been manufactured by the
government which is a copy of the gun recommended by
the Hancock board."
Findings 11, 12, and 13 disclose these facts
"11. Several models of Springfield arms have been placed
in evidence, and as to them we find. The model of 1865 was
the Allin gun. The model of 1866 (finding XII) was a tightjointed mechanism, and except for the ejector device, elsewhere described in these findings, the Berdan model has no
bearing upon this case. The loose-jointed mechanism appeared
in 1868, with the new ejector device elsewhere m these findings described. For the purposes of this action the model of
1868 and those subsequent are alike, and for these purposes
the description given in these findings of the Springfield gun
applies to all models subsequent to that of 1866.
"12. The Berdan gun (patent 52,925) was not loose-jointed,
when the breech-block was down there was no play, for then
the block abutted against the barrel at one end and the brace
against the breech-screw at the other, Berdan, by joining his
block (making thus a block and brace) procured a square recoil

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

shoulder against the end of the breech-pin, but he did not procure any play in the parts, there were elongated holes in the
plate fastening of his breech-block, as shown in the Patent
Office model, a device replaced in the gun shown the Hancock
board (No. 4) by a band which has a minute slip upon the
barrel under strong pressure, but neither the holes nor the
band are claimed to give, nor do they give, looseness of construction, they merely take up slight wear of the parts. It
is admitted that no single element in patent 52,925 is new
The combinations shown in claims 1, 2, 4, and 5 were novel
and useful.
"13. The iBerdan extractor (patent 52,925) was intended
for rim-fire cartridges, with those cartridges it was successful, it was not successful when used with centre-fire cartridges, for this reason The flange of the rim-fire cartridges
expanded somewhat at the time of explosion, and the shell
thus took a firm seat in the barrel. This expansion did not
occur in the centre-fire cartridges, and therefore the shell was
pressed back by the ejector spring in proportion to the speed
with which the breech-block was raised, the movement thus
communicated to the cartridge was therefore not sufficiently
fast to throw the cartridge out of the receiver. To counteract
this difficulty, Berdan introduced the friction plunger into the
receiver just behind the cartridge-head, thus counteracting the
backward pressure of the spring until the breech-block was
open sufficiently to allow the shell to clear the face of the
breech-block when ejected, so that the motion backward should
not be impeded by the intervening breech-block. This friction
plunger, singly or in combination, was not patented by Berdan.
"It appears that the ejector in patent 52,925 would only
operate when a rim-fire cartridge was used. The government
uses centre-fire cartridges."
Patent No. 88,436 was for what is called an extractor
ejector. In reference to the cause of action under this patent,
findings 16, 17, and 19 are as follows
"16. Extraction and ejection of cartridges was thus performed in all Springfield guns, beginning with the model of
1868, and continuing since.

UNITED STATES v. BERDAT FIRE-ARMS CO.

557

Statement of the Case.

"Extraction By an extractor plate swinging on the hingepin, and struck above its centre of motion by the forward end
of the breech-block near the completion of its movement in
opemng.
"Ejection By accelerating the movement of the extractor
by means of a spiral ejector spring which surrounds the stem
of the ejector spindle, and bears against the bottom of its hole
in the receiver at one end, and against the head of the spindle
at the other end. When the extractor is revolved by the
opening of the block, the ejector spring is compressed by the
ejector spindle, the point of which rests in a cavity in the back
of the extractor above its axis of motion. The continued
revolution of the extractor finally brings the prolongation of
the ejector spindle below the axis of motion, as soon as the
centre is passed the sudden release of the ejector spring causes
the extractor to rapidly rotate about its axis and to carry the
empty cartridge shell against the bevelled surface of the ejector
stud, by which it is deflected upward and thrown clear of the.
gun.
"This specific device was perfected by Benjamin F Adams,
an employe in the Springfield Armory He invented it in the
autumn of 1868.
"17. The extraction and ejection of cartridges was thus
performed in the IRussian-Berdan gun, patent No. 88,436.
"Extraction By an extractor swinging on the joint screw
and struck above its centre of motion by the forward end of the
breech-block nearer the completion of its movement in opening.
"Ejection By accelerating the movement of the extractor
by the ejector spring, one end of which has a solid bearing on
the hinge strap slide, and the other resting on the extractor
above the centre of motion, causes the spring to be compressed
by the movement of the latter until the direction of the resistance passes below the centre of motion, the sudden release of
the spring then throws out the extractor, carrying with it the
shell, which in passing out is deflected by the bevelled surface
of the ejector stud, and is thus thrown clear of the piece.
11The only difference between the Berdan and Adams devices is that Berdan used a flat spring while the government

OCTOBER TERM[, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

used a spiral spring with a spindle or plunger, both perform
the same office and attain the same result in the same way,
the use of the fiat spring or of the spiral spring is matter of
choice, and is in no way material to the result.
"Adams, when he made his invention, was ignorant of Berdan's prior invention.
"19. The War Department is early and regularly informed of all improvements and inventions in fire-arms and ammunition. It is aware of the state of the art at all times, and
generally knows of all patents upon fire-arms as soon as issued.
"The attitude of the War Department towards inventors
in ordnance has been one of neutrality, it has neither denied
nor admitted the legal rights, if any there were, of inventors,
in an endeavor to perfect the government arm that department has taken advantage of all knowledge within its reach
and of all inventions, it does not deny the claims of inventors, but has proceeded upon the policy that executive
officers should not decide upon such claims against the government or upon conflicting claims, but that the claim should be
presented without prejudice before some other tribunal than
an executive department. Berdan, as an officer of plaintiffs
herein, assignees of his inventions during the period covered
by this action, was in constant communication with the ordnance officers, requesting the use of his devices by the government, they knew him as an inventor and knew his inventions
as soon as they were patented. In 1867, it was known that
Berdan was at work upon an ejector, and in August, 1868,
that he had applied for patents for improvements in fire-arms,
but it does not appear that prior to issue of patent the ordnance officers knew of the specific devices protected by letters
patent No. 88,436, issued March 10, 1869, upon application
filed July 21, 1868, except as hereinafter appears."
Finding 23 contains these statements
"In 1867, during the autumn, Berdan showed to Colonel
Benton, commandant of the Springfield Armory, at the armory,
a transformed musket, containing the extractor-ejector subsequently described in the specifications and claims of patent
number 88,436. Colonel Benton then and there examined and

UNITED STATES. v. BERDAN FIRE-ARMS 00.

559

Statement of the Case.

tested the device, he neither approved nor disapproved it, his
attitude was neutral.
"August 3 or 4, 1868, Berdan had a conversation with General Dyer, then Chief of Ordnance, in the Ordnance Office,
upon the subject of his devices. During this conversation the
Chief of Ordnance said, in substance, that he had recommended that some steps should be taken or some court constituted for the purpose of determining the value of the
various claims for devices used in the Springfield gun, the
army officers (in his opinion, he said) being powerless to settle
the question.
"Berdan's application for patent No. 88,436 was then pending in the Patent Office, and Berdan explained generally its
features. The Chief of Ordnance said, in substance, that if
any of the features should be used by defendants in the
Springfield gun, the ordnance officers expected to pay for
them when the claimant had gone through the proper channels and settled the claim.
"While this application for patent 88,436 was pending in
the Patent Office the following letters were written
"' WsHiNGToN, August 3, 1868.
"'GENEIRAL. I hold some patents on the system of converting
-muzzle-loading muskets into breech-loaders, recently adopted
by the United States. I am also the inventor of other points
in the same system not yet patented, but applications for
which have been made some time since, and I am now
informed that the business of this branch of the Patent Office
is some five months behindhand, and that my application
would be acted upon at once on a receipt of a note from the
department that it is desirable that these applications should
be disposed of to enable me to present my claim to the gov-ernmentfor the use of said patent.
"'Trusting that you will grant me this favor,
"' I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"'H. BERDAN.
"'Bvt. Maj. Gen. A. B. DYER,
"' Chief of Ordnance.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"'WAR DEPARTMENT,

WASHINGTON CITY,

"'A'August 12, 1868.
"'Sm I have the honor to transmit herewith a commumcation, dated the 3d instant, from H. Berdan, asking that his
application for patents for various improvements in firearms
be acted upon immediately by the Patent Office, in order that
he may present his claims against this department for its use
of said inventions, and to state that so far as this department
is concerned the early consideration of the aforesaid claims is
regarded as being desirable.
"'Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
" ' J M. SCHOFIELD,

" 'Secretary of War'

"The Berdan extractor and ejector device (patent 88,436)
was exhibited in competition with other guns to a board of
officers detailed to test guns and called the 'Terry board,' in
the year 1873, in the report of that board the device was
fully described. General Benet became Chief of Ordnance
in June, 1874, and has since held this position, he understood the Springfield device for extracting and ejecting the
shell, as described in the 'Terry' report, as 'seemingly identical, certainly the mechanical equivalent,' of Berdan's device
for the same subject, covered by patent 88,436. After the
decision of the case of .Aoctfeever v. TEe Undted States, in this
court (December term, 1878, 14 0. 01. R., p. 396) General
Benet has been of this ' decided opinn '
"'F1irst. That the Supreme Court having given the opinion
in the case of Seymour v Osborne, (11 Wallace U. S. S. C.
Reports, p. 533,) that "inventions secured by letters patent
are property in the holder of the patent, and are as much
entitled to protection as any other property, consisting of a
franchise during the terms for which the franchise or the
exclusive right is granted," that patent rights are private
property and cannot be taken by the United States without
due compensation, and,

UNITED STATES v. BERDAN FIRE-ARMS CO.

561

Argument for United States.

"'Second. That a use of an invention protected by a
patent is the use of private property that must be paid for,
and, therefore, an nnplied contract that has a place in court,
and that if the validity of the patent is sustained, and its use
by the government isproved to the satisfaction of the court,
the inventor must be paid.'
"General Benet, ' with this understanding,' continued the
manufacture of the Springfield gun, containing the disputed
ejector and extractor device, after adjournment of the 'Terry
board,' with the expectation that if the court sustained a
claim by Berdan against the government upon his patent No.
88,436, then the government must pay him for the use of his
invention. Plaintiffs have desired that the government should
use their patented devices and have also desired and requested
compensation for such use.
"Upon the foregoing facts the court find that since 1874
the Berdan extractor-ejector device (described in patent No.
88,436) has been used by defendant's ordnance officers knowingly and without claim of adverse right, believing the device
in the Springfield gun to be the device, or the mechanical
eqmvalent of the device, covered by said letters patent, and
with the anticipation that should the understanding of the
said ordnance officers as to plaintiff's rights be judicially decided to be correct the defendant would compensate plaintiffs
for such use."
.Afr Asstant Attorney General Conrad, for the United
States, said, upon the question of a contract
In the case of Palmer v United States, 128 U. S. 262, 269,
Palmer had exhibited his invention to a board of army officers, which recommended its adoption, and the Secretary
of War adopted the device as a part of the equipment of
infantry The government thereupon manufactured and used
Action being brought to recover
the patented invention.
royalty upon the theory of an implied contract, plaintiff was
successful, and on appeal to the Supreme Court the judgment
VOL. CLVI-36

OCTOBER TERN, 1894.
Argument for United States.

was affirmed. Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of
the court, said
"The government used the claimant's improvements with
his consent, and certainly with the expectation on his part of
receiving a reasonable compensation for the license. This is
not a claim for an infringement, but a claim of compensation
for an authorized use.
The claimant in this case
invited the government to adopt his patented infantry equipments and the government did so. It is conceded on both
sides that there was no infringement of the claimant's patent,
and that whatever the government did was done with the
consent of the patentee and under his implied license."
The government is altogether willing that its liability to
the demand made here shall be determined by the tests suggested in the foregoing opinion. It submits that from the
findings of fact in this case it is ascertained that it not only
did not "use claimant's improvements with his consent," but
did not use them at all and expressly declined to use them.
It submits that this is not a "claim of compensation for
authorized use," but is clearly and distinctly a "claim for an
infringement." The sole basis of this claim, as appears as well
from claimant's petition as from the opinion of the court, is
that the government is liable, not because it has used Berdan's
device, but because in using Adams's device, it has used a
mechanical equivalent to Berdan's. This fact, considered in
connection with the further fact that upon competitive trial
it expressly rejected Berdan's and chose Adams's device,
would seem to be conclusive of the character of its liability
(if any) in this case, that is, that it is a liability for an infringement and not a liability upon a contract.
We do not mean to be understood as saying that the government may not be held liable for its appropriation and use
of the patented invention of another. What we do mean to
say is, that such liability can only arise under conditions from
which a contract, promise, or undertaking on the part of the
government can be reasonably implied, and we submit that,
under the conditions which the findings of fact here disclose,
no such promise or undertaking can be implied, because the

UNITED STATES v. BERDAIN FIRE-ARMS 00.

563

Argument for Berdan Company.

government has expressly refused to use the explicit device
for which compensation is here claimed, and having thusrefused to use it, the only ground upon which liability can be
claimed is, that in using the device which it has intentionally
employed it has thereby unwittingly infringed the patented
rights of Berdan.
.XrGeorge S. Boutwell and Mr Joseph H. Choate for the
Berdan Co. said as to the statute of limitationsUpon this subject of the entirety of the contract, there is
in this court a very instructive and quite conclusive case. In
Steam Packet Company v Sickles, 10 How 419, at p. 440 to
441, the plaintiff had entered into a contract with the defendants for the use by the defendants of a certain patented
machine of the plaintiff's upon the steamboat of the defendants, the purpose of the machine being to save fuel in the
operation of the boats. By the terms of the contract the
defendants were to continue the use on their boat "durnng
the continuance of the patent." The plaintiffs having sued
without regard to the stipulations of the contract, and having
threatened to bring an action every 'week to recover the
amount due under the terms of the contract, and the court
below having substantially instructed the jury that such an
action ad mnterim would lie, this court, in holding such instruction to be error, said
"If the plaintiffs had complied with the request of the president of the company, in a letter addressed to them on the
14th of April, 1841, after the dispute about the nature of the
contract had arisen, and taken their cut-off from the boat, and
thus put an end to the contract, the instructions given by
the court would have been undoubtedly correct. But as the
record shows that the plaintiffs have refused to annul the contract, a very important question arises -whether this action
and five hundred others, which the plaintiffs have expressed
their determination to continue to institute, can be supported
on this one contract. By the contract as proved and declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Berdan Company.

on, the defendants, after the machine has been erected on.
their boat, are to continue to use it ' during the continuance
of the patent,' if the boat should last so long. The compensation to be paid by the defendants is to be measured by the
amount of saving of fuel which the machine shall effect.
The mode of ascertaining this saving is pointed out, and the
ratio in which it is to be divided. The first $250 saved are
all to go to the plaintiffs, and three-fourths of all the balance.
But the contract is wholly silent as to the time when any
account shall be rendered or payments made. The defendants
have not agreed to pay by the tripg, or settle their account every
day, or week, or year, or at the end of 27q weeks, the time for
which this suit is instituted. The agreement on the part of
the plaintiffs is, that the defendants shall use their machine
for a certain time, in consideration of which defendants are
to pay a certain sum of money It is true the exact sum is
not stated, but the mode of rendering it certan s fully set
forth. It is one entire contract, whzch cannot be divzded into
a thousand, as the plaintiffs zmagine. If the defendants had
agreed to pay by instalments at the end of every week, or
twenty-seven weeks, doubtless the plaintiffs could have sustained an action for the breach of each promise as the
breaches successively occurred. But it is a well-settled principle of law that 'unless there be some express stipulatzon to
the contrary, whenever an entire sum is to be _paid for the
entire work, the performance or service is a condition -precedent. Being one consideration and one debt, it cannot be
divided.' It was error, therefore, to instruct the jury that
the plaintiffs were entitled to recover on the first count, if
their machine was used by the defendants and was beneficial
to them, without regard to the fact of the rescission, or continuance, or fulfilment of the contract on the part of the
plaintiffs."
The question of the nature and of the entirety of the contract, being purely one of intention, the circumstances of this
case and the transactions of the parties, coupled with the nature of the subject-matter of the contract and of the contemplated user, absolutely demonstrate that in this instance the

UNITED STATES v. BERDAN FIRE-ARMS 00. 565
Opinion of the Court.

contract is entire for a continuous user during the life of the
patent, and not a several and distinct contract in respect of
each gun. The statute of limitations is therefore no bar to
any part of the claim.
Mnr. JUSTICE BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Three questions are presented. First, did the court err in
denying relief to the petitioner on the first cause of action,
second, was the petitioner entitled to recover from the United
States on the second cause of action, and, third, if so, was
there any mistake in the amount awarded 2
With respect to the first little need be said. The ninth
finding is express, that the government never bought any guns
from petitioner, (for the word "defendants" is obviously a clerical error,) and. has never manufactured a gun after the model
recommended by the Hancock board. It, therefore, never received any tangible property from the petitioner, nor ever
trespassed upon any intangible right created by the patent.
Beyond this it also appears that the patent was only for a combination, no single element of which was new, that it was
intended for and was successful when used with rim-fire cartridges, and was not successful when used with centre-fire cartridges, that the government uses only the latter cartridges,
that in order to adapt his patent to these cartridges the inventor added a new element for which neither singly nor in
combination- did he take out any patent. If, therefore, the
government had used model No. 4, which was presented to the
Hancock board, it would not have infringed any patent right.
For where several elements, no one of which is novel, are
united in a combination which is the subject of a patent, and
these several elements are thereafter united with another element into a new combination, and this new combination performs a work which the patented combination could not, there
is no infringement. Even if there were findings sufficient to
show that the government had in any manner infringed upon
this patent, there is nothing disclosing a contract, express or

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

implied, and a mere infringement, which is only a tort, creates
no cause of action cognizable in the Court of Claims. Gibbons
v United States, 8 Wall. 269, fforgan v. Untted States, 14
Wall. 531, Hill v Unded States, 149 U S. 593, Schillinger v
Unzted States, 155 U S. 163.
With regard to the second question It appears that Berdan invented the extractor-ejector, that he received a patent
therefor and assigned such patent to the petitioner. It also
appears that the government has made use of this invention, or at least one differing from it only in the substitution of a spiral for a flat spring. These springs "perform the
same office and attain the same result in the same way," and
the use of the one for the other is a "matter of choice, and
is in no way material to the result." Upon these facts alone,
thus briefly stated, the defendant, were it a private person,
would be liable to an action of infringement. Nor would it
be a defence to the action that such person had, subsequent to
Berdan's invention, and without knowledge thereof, devised
the contrivance which he was using. He would be in the
attitude of a subsequent inventor, and the prior inventor is the
one who, under the statutes, is entitled to the monopoly Rev
Stat. §§ 4884-4886. "For any one invention but one valid
patent can exist, and of several distinct inventors of the same
invention one only is entitled to receive a grant of the exclusive right. This one is the original and first inventor."
1 Robinson on Patents, sec. 58. That the peculiar contrivance
used by the government was devised by Adams, one of its employes, and that it differs from the Berdan invention in the
use of a spiral instead of a flat spring, in no manner diminish
the patent rights of Berdan or his assignee, the petitioner, or
change the fact that the use made by the government of the
extractor-ejector was an infringement upon such rights.
But as heretofore stated, something more than a mere infringement, which is a tort and not within the jurisdiction of
the Court of Claims, is necessary to enable the petitioner to
maintain this action. Some contractual liability must be
shown. In Uni.ted States v Palmer, 128 U. S. 262, 269, it
appeared that the petitioner was the inventor of certain im-

UNITED STATES v. BERDAN FIRE-ARMS CO. 567
Opinion of the Court.

provements in infantry equipments, that he presented such
improvements to a board of officers appointed by order of the
Secretary of War to meet, consider, and report upon the subject of a proper equipment for infantry soldiers, that such
board recommended the use of his improvements, and that
the improvements were adopted by the Secretary of War as
part of the equipment of the infantry soldiers of the United
States army Upon these facts the court found that there was
an implied contract, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the
court, saying "No tort was committed or claimed to have
been committed. The government used the claimant's improvements with his consent, and, certainly, with the expectation on his part of receiving a reasonable compensation for
the license. This is not a claim for an infringement, but a
claim of compensation for an authorized use, two things
totally distinct in the law, as distinct as trespass on lands is
We think
from use and occupation under a lease.
that an implied contract for compensation fairly arose under
the license to use, and the actual use, little or much, that
ensued thereon. The objection, therefore, that this is an
action for a tort falls to the ground."
In the case at bar, according to the nineteenth finding,
"Berdan, as an officer of plaintiffs herein, assignees of his
inventions during the period covered by this action, was in
constant communication with the ordnance officers, requesting
the use of his devices by the government, they knew him
as an inventor, and knew his inventions as soon as they were
patented ;" and, by the twenty-third, "plaintiffs have desired
the government should use their patented devices, and have
also desired and requested compensation for such use." So far,
then, as the petitioner is concerned, the use of this invention
was with its consent, in accordance with its wish, and with
the thought of compensation therefor.
While the findings are not so specific and emphatic as to the
assent of the government to the-terms of any contract, yet we
think they are sufficient. There was certainly no denial of
the patentee's rights to the invention, no assertion on the part
of the government that the patent was wrongfully issued, no

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

claim of a right to use the invention regardless of the patent,
no disregard of all claims of the patentee, and no use, in spite
of protest or remonstrance. Negatively, at least the findings
are clear. The government used the invention with the consent
and express permission of the owner, and it did not, while so
using it, repudiate the title of such owner.
The nineteenth finding, besides showing knowledge on the
part of the officers of the government of Berdan's invention,
states, in a general way, that "the attitude of the War
Department towards inventors in ordnance has been one of
neutrality, it has neither denied nor admitted the legal rights,
if any there were, of inventors, in an endeavor to perfect the
government arm that department has taken advantage of all
knowledge within its reach and of all inventions, it does not
deny the claims of inventors, but has proceeded upon the
policy that executive officers should not decide upon such
claims against the government or upon conflicting claims, but
that the claim should be presented without prejudice before
some other tribunal than an executive department."
The twenty-third finding discloses that while Berdan's application for patent No. 88,436 was pending the Chief of
Ordnance of the Army said, in substance, that if any of the

features of that patent should be used by the defendant in the
manufacture of the Springfield gun, the officers expected to
recommend the payment for their use when the claims had
gone through the proper channels and were settled, that the
inventor wrote to the Chief of Ordnance asking the assistance
of the War Department in securing speedy action on the pending application in the Patent Office, which letter was transmitted by the Secretary of War to the Secretary of the
Interior, stating that "the early consideration of the aforesaid claims is regarded as being desirable."
By the same finding it also appears that this patent was
exhibited in 1873, in competition with other guns, to a board
of officers called the Terry board, detailed to inspect *guns,
that in the report of this board the device is fully described,
that General Benet became Chief of Ordnance in June, 1874,
"that he understood the Springfield device for extracting and

UNITED STATES v. BERDAN FIRE-ARMS CO.

569

Opmion of the Court.

ejecting the shell, as described in the 'Terry' report, as
'seemingly identical, certainly the mechanical equivalent' of
Berdan's device for the same subject, covered by patent
88,436 ," and also understood "that a use of an invention
protected by a patent is the use of private property that must
be paid for, and, therefore, an implied contract that has a
place in court, and that if the validity of the patent is sustained, and its use by the government is proved to the satisfaction of the court, the inventor must be paid," and "' with
this understanding,' continued the manufacture of the Springfield gun, containing the disputed ejector and extractor device,
after adjournment of the ' Terry board,' with the expectation
that if the court sustained a claim by Berdan against the
government upon his patent No.88,436, then the government
must pay him for the use of the invention."
The import of these findings is this That the officers of the
government, charged specially with the duty of superintending
the manufacture of muskets, regarded Berdan as the inventor
of this extractor-ejector, that the difference between the spiral
and fiat spring was an immaterial difference, that, therefore,
they were using m the Springfield musket Berdan's invention,
that they used it with his permission as well as that of his as:slgnee, the petitioner, and that they used it with the understanding that the government would pay for such. use as for
-other private property which it might take, and this,.although
they did not believe themselves to have the authority to agree
upon the price.
These facts bring the case clearly within United States v
Palmer, &upra,and show that the judgment of the Court of
'Claims was not founded upon a tort resulting from a mere
infringement, but upon a contract to which both parties assented. That no price was agreed upon, or that the officers
of the government were not authorized to agree upon a price,
is immaterial. N~o price was fixed in United States v Palmer,
.supra,or in United States v ]ussell, 13 Wall. 623. The question is whether there was a contract for the use, and not
whether all the conditions of the use were provided for in
such contract. This is the ordinary rule in respect to the pur,chase of property or labor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

With regard to the third question, we are of opinion that
the Court of Claims ruled correctly that the statute of limitations was a bar to any recovery for the use of the patented
invention prior to six years before the action was commenced.
The Berdan device has been used by the government since
January, 1869, and the petition in this case was filed July 26,
1887. Between January, 1869, and July 26, 1881, there were
manufactured 224,952 muskets containing this device. Between July 26, 1881, and the expiration of the patent the
number of muskets so manufactured was 159,940. The Court
of Claims found that five per cent upon the lowest cost of
manufacturing the musket during the period covered by this
action was a fair and reasonable royalty
One contention of the petitioner is that the contract, to be
implied from the facts in this case, was entered into at the
commencement of the use by the government of this patented
device, and was a single contract in respect to the entire manufacture, under which no cause of action accrued to the petitioner until it was fully completed, and that therefore the
statute of limitations began to run only from such time. The
foundation of this claim lies in the fact that the blank form
of proposal prepared by the Hancock board contained "the
cardinal feature that the price should be fixed on a sliding
scale -the more used the less rate ," and that the proposition made by the petitioner was in exact response thereto,
and named the prices graduated by the number of arms that
should be manufactured, to wit, "two dollars per arm for the
privilege of manufacturing 50,000, one and three-quarters
dollars for the privilege of manufacturing 100,000,,, and so
on, and that all the offers made at the time were on some
sliding scale of compensation.
It is further insisted that no other mode of determining
the compensation was ever agreed upon between the parties,
that the whole history of the transactions between them
indicate that that must have been the mode contemplated
by each, that in the nature of things, and in accordance
with the ordinary rules which control matters of this kind,
the price should vary with the number or quantity, and that

UNITED STATES v. BERDAT FIRE-ARMS CO.

571

Opinion of the Court.

until the government had ceased using the device, or at least
until the patent had expired, there could be no satisfactory
determination of what was a reasonable price for its use.
It is a sufficient reply that the proceedings before the Hancock board were abortive and resulted in nothing. The proposition made by the petitioner was never accepted, and the
government never bought any gun from it or manufactured
any like that recommended by the Hancock board. The proposition contemplated no rights other than the petitioner then
had. It did not in terms, or by implication, extend to patents
that it might thereafter acquire, and cannot be construed as
underlying any action by the government commenced three
years thereafter with reference to a different subject-matter.
IBecause the petitioner, in 1866, offered the government certain patent rights at specified prices, it does not follow that
those prices were to control in respect to other patent rights
not then in existence, and which were subsequently tendered
by it. If the prices are not to control, there is no reason
for insisting that the other terms of the original proposition
entered into the later transaction. When the negotiations
of 1866 failed they failed for all purposes, and in the absence
of some specific evidence indicating an intent to carry forward the terms of the proposition then made into the new
arrangement of 1869, the conditions of this new contract must
be determined by the circumstances which attended it.
But further, the negotiations of the Hancock board contemplated intermediate payments. In the blank form of
proposal issued by the board was this provision "Each
payment, as above specified, to be made for not less than
five thousand arms," and the same language was inserted in
the offer made by the petitioner. Evidently the parties intended that any contract which might be entered into should
provide for payments from time to time, such payments to
be for not less than five thousand arms, and not for a single
payment when the government had finished the use, or the
patent had expired. And, of course, the moment any payment should become due, that moment, as to it, the statute
of limitations would begin to ran. Whatever, however, may

OCTOBER TERIM,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

have been the thought of the parties in respect to the contract then proposed, the actual use by the government of
the device covered by patent No. 88,436 was, so far as
appears from any of the findings, upon no understanding
that the prices named in 1866 for the device then tendered
were to control, or that any sliding scale existed by which
the price should be reduced as the number increased, or
that the manufacture was to continue for any specified time,
or that any particular number of muskets containing the
device were to be manufactured. It was the use of the
device in each single musket, with no other agreement
or understanding than that a reasonable price should be
paid therefor. It was like the ordinary purchase of a series
of articles no time for payment being named, payment
is due for each article as it is delivered.
The case of Steam Packet Co. v Sickles, 10 How 419, 441,
is not in point, for in that case the contract specifically provided that the machine should be used by the defendants during
the continuance of the patent, and that after paying for its
construction, the savings caused thereby in the consumption of
fuel should be divided between the defendants and plaintiffs,
one-quarter to defendants and three-quarters to plaintiffs. It
was in view of this feature of the contract that the court said
"The agreement on the part of the plaintiffs is, that the defendants shall use their machine for a certain time, in consideration of which defendants are to pay a certain sum of money
It is true that the exact sum is not stated, but the mode of
rendering it certain is fully set forth. It is one entire contract,
which cannot be divided into a thousand, as the plaintiffs
imagine." But here there is no pretence that the government
agreed to use in all its muskets this device, or to continue the
use of the device in any that it should manufacture during the
life of the patent. There was no obligation on the part of
the government as to time or number.
It is further contended that the royalty fixed by the Court
of Claims is less than it should have been. In support of this
contention reference is made to finding number twenty-two,
which contains these statements

UNITED STATES v. BERDAT FIRE-ARMS CO.

573

Opinion of the Court.

"The cost of manufacturing the extractor-ejector now in
use (since 1868) is $1.25 per gun less than the cost of manufacturing the Allin device. Several witnesses of high military
position, experts in the practical use of arms of this description,
and familiar with the cost of manufacture, have testified to the
great value of the extractor-ejector device, claimed to be covered (and understood by them to be covered) by patent No.
88,436, and they are of the opinion that a reasonable royalty for
the use of this device would be the saving in cost over the Allin
device plus a sum varying somewhat with each witness, but of
which the average is $1.41* per musket, thus giving as royalty
the sum of $2.66t per musket. It does not appear upon what
facts these witnesses based their opinions, or that they were
cognizant of facts in relation to sales or licenses of this or
other similar inventions upon which to found their opinions."
In this finding the court also states that it "finds the ultimate fact that five per cent upon the lowest cost of manufacturing the musket during the period covered by this action"
was a fair and reasonable royalty It gives the cost of manufacturing during the various years, and, in addition to the
matters just quoted, the amount paid in other cases for the use
of other devices in fire-arms. It also gives a table of the
rates offered by the fifty-six different patentees of fire-arms to
the Hancock board. Now, it may be that the finding as to
the reasonable royalty is something in the nature of an arbitrary determination, and it is true that the court refers to the
various matters above indibated as furnishing the basis upon
which it reaches this conclusion, yet the question of a reasonable royalty is a question of fact to be determined by the
Court of Claims, and its determination, as expressed in its
findings, is conclusive upon us, unless from other findings it is
apparent that there was error. We are not satisfied that there
was any such error. The question is, what, under the circumstances, was a reasonable price to be paid by the government 2
It does not appear that there was any customary royalty, or
that anybody, other than the government, has used this device.
It is fair also to bear in mind that the particular structure
*which the government used was devised by one of its own

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

employes, and while the difference between it and the Berdan
device is slight, and Berdan was the prior inventor, yet it
is not unreasonable to take into consideration this slight
difference between the two structures, and that the government constantly held to the specific device invented by itsown employe. The question is not whether, from the other
facts stated in the findings, we should have reached the same
conclusion as the Court of Claims, but whether, from such
other facts, we can see that that court erred. We are not
prepared so to hold.
These are the only questions present9d in this record, and,
finding no error in them, the judgment of the Court of
Claims is
Afflrmed.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

took no part in the decision of these

cases.

CORINNE

MILL

CANAL AND STOCK
v. JOHNSON

COMPANY

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 216. Argued January 31, 1895. -Decided

March 4,1895.

In an action to recover possession of land in Utah the plaintiff set up that
it was part of a grant to a railroad company under which he claimed.
In the statute making the grant there were exceptions and reservations.
The plaintiff failed to show that the tract he claimed was not within
them. The trial court ruled that he had failed to show title, and its
ruling was upheld by the Supreme Court of the Territory. Held, that
this was not error.

THIS was an action brought by the plaintiff in error, plaintiff below, in the District Court of the First Judicial District
of Utah to recover possession of certain real estate. A trial
before the court and a jury resulted in a verdict and judgment
for defendant, which judgment was on appeal affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the Territory 7 Utah, 327.

