UNITED STATES v. THOMAN.
Statement of the Case.

court below, so as to have afforded an opportunity there to
make the requisite correction. Motions for rehearing are
expressly allowed by the statute law of Arizona. (Revised
Statutes 1887, ยง 954.) Instead of availing himself of such a
motion, the appellant, on the day the decree was entered,
gave notice in open court of his intention to appeal, declaring
therein that he excepted "only to such portion of said decision and judgment as decided that railroad property within
the boundaries of an Indian reservation, within the Territory,
is subject to taxation by the Territories or counties, and that
such reservation is under the jurisdiction of the territorial
courts."
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. SIEGEL v. THOMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 25. Submitted December 18, 1894. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

The provision in act No. 30 of the Louisiana Statutes of 1877 that the surplus of the revenues of parishes and municipal corporations for any
year may be applied to the payment of the indebtedness of former years
is not mandatory, but only permissory, and creates no contract right in
a holder of such indebtedness of former years which can be enforced by
mandamus.

T.HE legislature of the State of Louisiana in 1877 passed an
act which may be epitomized as follows: That no police jury
of any parish or municipal corporation in the State should
make appropriations or expenditures of money in any year
which should, separately or together, with any appropriations
or expenditures of the same year, be in actual excess of the
actual revenue of the parish or municipality for that year,
and that all the revenues of the parishes and municipalities of
each year should be devoted to the expenditures of that year,
provided "that any surplus of said revenues may be applied
VOL. CLVI-2S

OCTOBER TERVI, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

to the payment of the indebtedness of former years." Extra
Session Acts of 1877, p. 47.
In 1879 (act iNo. 38 of that year) it was provided that it
should be the duty of the board of administrators of the common council of the city of New Orleans, in December of each
year, to propose a detailed statement exhibiting the amount
of revenues for the ensuing year expected to be derived by
the city from taxes and licenses, and that along with this estimate of receipts it should be likewise the duty of the city to
prepare a detailed statement of the estimated expenditures,
exhibiting the items of liability and expenses for the year,
including the requisite amount for contingent expenses during
that time. The act provided that the estimate of liabilities
and expenses should not exceed four-fifths of the estimated
amount of revenue. It made it the duty of the city to adopt
a budget of revenues and liabilities, and to levy the taxes and
collect the licenses provided in the estimate in order to pay
the same. It directed that the detailed estimate of receipts
and expenses should be considered as an appropriation of the
amounts therein stated to the purpose therein set forth, and
forbade the diversion of any of the receipts from the particular purposes to which they were then appropriated.
In 1882, in an act reincorporating the city of New Orleans,
the foregoing provision as to the annual estimate and budget
was practically reenacted, with the direction that the budget
be published in the official journal. This law, in addition,
provided as follows
"The council in fixing the budget of revenue and expenses
as herein provided for shall not consider and adopt as a
revenue miscellaneous or contingent resources and affix thereto either an arbitrary or nominal value or amount, but whenever such resources are considered and adopted they shall be
estimated on a real and substantial basis, giving the source
whence to be derived, a specific sum to be received from each
item thereof, and no more. The council is hereby prohibited
from estimating for expenditures to be derived from any
uncertain or indefinite source, cause or circumstance, but the
council shall, by proper ordinances, provide for the receipt

UNITED STATES v. THOHAN.
Statement of the Case.

and disbursements of any sums of money, interests, rights, or
credits that may accrue to the corporation by bequest, grant,
or any cause whatever, and all such sums, rights, interests,
or credits so received shall be, and are hereby, appropriated
for the purposes of public works and improvements, the manner and details of such appropriations to be ordered by the
council.
"The council shall not under any pretext whatever appropriate any funds for the government of the corporation to the
full extent of the estimated revenues, but shall reserve twentyfive per cent of said estimated revenues, which reserve and
all sums, rights, interests, and credits received from miscellaneous or contingent sources shall be appropriated by the
council for the purposes of public improvements as herein provided for." Sections 64, 65, and 66 of act No. 20, Acts of
1882, pp. 14, 35.
In 1886 the act just quoted was amended by providing that
the council "shall not under any pretext whatever appropriate
any funds for the government of the corporation to the full
extent of the revenues, but shall reserve 20 per cent of said
revenues, which reserve and all sums, rights, interests, and
credits received from miscellaneous or contingent sources shall
be appropriated by the council for the purposes of permanent
public improvements, as herein provided for."
In March, 1883, the city of New Orleans sanctioned the
issue of transferable certificates of ownership for unpaid appropriations, which certificates entitled the creditor to receive
a cash warrant for the claim in the order of the promulgation
of the ordinance by which the claim was authorized. The
ordinance provided that the certificates thus issued should
bear no interest.
Prior to May 21, 1890, the relator herein brought three suits
against the city of New Orleans in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana upon
transferable certificates of 1882, issued under the ordinance
aforesaid. In one suit, No. 1900 on the docket, judgment
was rendered in his favor on May 21, 1890, for $ 4960.40 and
costs, but without interest. Its language is "It is therefore

0CTOBER TERM, 1894'
Statement of the Case.

ordered, adjudged and decreed that the plaintiff, Henry Siegel,
do have and recover of and from the defendant, the city of
New Orleans, the sum of $4960.40 and costs, but without interest. The said judgment to be paid exclusively out of such
revenues of the city of New Orleans for the year 1882 as
may be collected by said city from revenues set apart by the
amended budget of the said city for the year 1882,
legally and properly payable, and for which appropriation
was made by said amended budget, provided that the surplus
of revenue of any subsequent year may be applied to the pay
ment of the debts of the year 1882, according to section 3 of
act No. 30, 1877." A like judgment was rendered in the two
other cases, the only difference between them being in the
amounts which they covered - both amounts, separately, however, being below $5000. At about that time, or subsequently
thereto, the defendant also filed against the city of New Orleans fourteen suits, numbered on the docket, respectively, from
11,914 to 11,928, omitting 11,922. These suits covered transferable certificates of the city of New Orleans, like those already referred to, for various amounts and against the appropriations
of the years 1879, 1880, 1881, and 1882. These fourteen cases
were heard together before the District and Circuit Judge,
resulting in separate judgments, entered on June 19, 1890, in
each case, as follows "It is therefore ordered, adjudged, and
decreed that the plaintiff
do have and recover of
and from the defendant, the city of New Orleans, the sum
of
-,
payable out of the revenues of the year-,
with
full benefit of the provisions of section 3 of act No. 30, 1877."
The proper blanks left above contained in the entry of each
judgment a statement of the amount and the year against
which the clain had been created. The sum of these seventeen judgments, payable out of the revenues of the respective
years, was as follows 1879, $21,008.36, 1880, $3391.87,
1881, $12,311.78, 1882, $35,366.17.
Shortly after the entering of the judgments, proceedings by
mandamus were commenced in all of the suits to compel the
comptroller of the city of New Orleans to pay the amounts
upon the ground that there was a surplus of revenue for the

UNITED STATES v. THOMAN.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

years 1888 and 1889 in the city treasury largely m excess of
the judgments, and that the relator was entitled by contract to
have them paid out of the surplus revenues of any year subsequent to that in which the indebtedness which he held was
created. The seventeen mandamus proceedings were ordered
consolidated into one cause, to be entitled Henry Siegel v
The City of NVew Orleans, under the number "11,500, consolidated." The comptroller, in this consolidated suit, made return denying that there was any surplus of revenues for the
year 1888, and averring, on the contrary, "that the budget for
the city of New Orleans for the year 1888 was $1,474,093.10
for the alimony of the city and the sum of $88,752.0d for the
reserve fund, making the total budget for all purposes against
the revenues for that year the sum of $1,562,855.14, that the
total collection out of the revenues for that year, to date of return was the sum of $1,550,502.32, that out of said amount the
sum of $1,474,093.10 has been paid on account of the alimony
of the city, and $47,343.05 has gone to pay claims out of the
reserve fund, that $29,066.17 was in cash to the credit of
the reserve fund for that year, and is retained to pay claims
payable out of the same, that if the said $29,066.17 were
paid to the creditors holding claims against the reserve fund
there would still remain unpaid claims against the
said reserve fund to the extent of $12,342.82, that until said
amount was collected there could not be a payment of all the
claims charged against the reserve fund," and hence no surplus existed. Facts substantially similar, the figures varying
in amount, were stated in regard to the funds of 1889. The
return denied the existence of any special contract right in
favor of the judgment creditor as against the reserve fund of
the respective years. A jury having been waived, the case
was submitted to the court, and resulted in a decree refusing
the mandamus, and the case was brought by error here.
.Mr J 1. Beckwth and Afr Henry L. Lazarus for plaintiff in error.
.M" E. A. O'Sullivan for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The right which the relator asserts rests upon the premise
that the third section of the act of 1877 contractually dedicated
the surplus fund of any year to the payment of creditors holding claims for years subsequent to 1877, which claims were made
by law payable out of the revenues for such subsequent years.
From this is deduced the conclusion that the city charter,
(sections 65 and 66 of the act of 1882,) and the amendment
thereof in 1886, (act 109 of 1886,) which authorize the surplus
in any year to be applied to works of public improvement, are
void so far as creditors subsequent to 1877 are concerned, because they impair the obligations of the contract made in favor
of such creditors by the act of 187-7. The premise is fallacious
and the conclusion drawn from it unsound. The act of 1877,
after dedicating the revenues of each year to the expenses of
that year, took any surplus out of the imperative rule thus
established by the proviso that "any surplus of said revenues
may be applied to the indebtedness of former years." In
other words, having fixed inflexibly the rule by which the
revenues of the year were to be first used to pay the debts of
the year, it made an exception by allowing the surplus of any
year to be applied to the debts "of former years." The
rule was imperative, the exception permissive or facultative.
Both provisions taken together operated to deprive the city
government of power to use the revenues of one year to pay
the debts of another, and to confer on the city authority to
employ, if it so chose, the surplus of one year to pay debts of
previous years. Indeed, the law made no attempt to dedicate
the surplus to any particular object or to control the legislative discretion of the municipal council in its regard. Having
affirmatively directed that the revenues of each year should
be applied to the year's expenses or debts, the surplus necessarily became subject to the appropriating power of the
city To prevent the general limitation dedicating each year's
revenues to each year's debts, from operating to prevent the
surplus from being applied to debts of previous years, should
the city so desire, the law said the city "may" so use it.

UNITED STATES v. THOI A,.
Opinion of the Court.

It is familiar doctrine that where a statute confers a power
to be exercised for the benefit of the public or of a private
person, the word "may" is often treated as imposing a duty
rather than conferring a discretion. -ason v Fearson, 9
How 248, Washington v Pratt,8 Wheat. 681, Supermsors
v Un'ded States. 4 Wall. 435. This rule of construction is,
however, by no means invariable. Its application depends on
the context of the statute, and on whether it is fairly to be
presumed that it was the intention of the legislature to confer
a discretionary power or to impose an imperative duty Zginor
v. 3.ec anos' Bank, 1 Pet. 46, Binney v Chesapeake & Ohw
Canal Co., 8 Pet. 201, Thompson v Carroll'sLessee, 22 How
422. In 3finor v .Mechanscs'Bank, Mr. Justice Story, delivering the opinion of the court, said (p. 63) "The argument of the
defendants is that ' may' in this section means ' must,' and
reliance is placed upon a well-known rule, in the construction
of public statutes, where the word 'may' is often construed
as imperative. Without question such a construction is proper
in all cases where the legislature means to impose a positive
and absolute duty, and not merely to give a discretionary
power. But no general rule can be laid down upon this
subject further than that that exposition ought to be adopted
in this, as in other cases, which carries into effect the true
intent and object of the legislature in the enactment. The
ordinary meaning of the language must be presumed to be
intended unless it would manifestly defeat the object of the
provisions."
In Thompson v Lessee of Carr'oll, supra,this court, speaking
through Mr. Justice Grier, observed (p. 434) "It is only
where it is necessary to give effect to the clear policy and
intention of the legislature that such a liberty can be taken
with the plain words of the statute."
In the law to be construed here it is evident that the word
"may" is used in special contradistinction to the word "shall,"
and hence there can be no reason for "taking such a liberty"
The legislature first imposes an imperative duty, the application of the revenue of each year to the expenses thereof, and
then makes provision for the case of an excess of revenue

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

over expenses. In the first the word "shall" and in the latter
provision the word "may" is used, indicating command in
the one and permission in the other. Indeed, the discretionary
nature of the power lodged in the city by the act of 1877,
in regard to the surplus revenue of any year, results inevitably
from the entire context of the statute and its obvious purpose.
Under the general rule which the statute created all the
revenues of each year were to be applied exclusively to the
expenditures of such year, hence they could not be used for
any other purpose. If, after the expenses of any year had
been paid out of its revenues, a balance remained on hand, the
city would have been powerless to use it. She could not have
applied it to the payment of a debt, because the statute said
that it should be devoted to the expenditures of the year in
which it was collected. She could not have applied it to the
expenses of other years, for this, likewise, would have been a
violation of the statute. She would simply have had in her
possession a sum of money which she could not lawfully use
for any purpose whatever. This condition of things rendered
it necessary to give power to dispose of the surplus, hence
the use of the word "may," which clearly expresses this legislative intent.
The surplus having been left by the act of 1877 under the
control of the city council, it follows that that act gave to the
relator no contract right to such surplus. The city having
power to dispose of it, the acts of 1882 and 1886, directing
the municipality to appropriate the surplus to works of public
improvement, impaired the obligation of no contract right in
favor of relator, since no right existed, and was therefore,
quoadl the questions presented by this record, a valid exercise
of legislative authority
Indeed, the necessary effect of granting the relief here
sought would be to impair the contract rights of creditors who
are not before us. The record shows that under the mandatory terms of the statutes of 1882 and 1886 the surplus for the
years covered by relator's claim has been set apart to works
of public improvement, and appropriations to that end have
been made against the same. To make the mandamus peremp-

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
Syllabus.

tory would therefore take the fund from the creditors, to the
payment of whose claims it has been lawfully consecrated,
and give it to the relator.
The judgments in favor of the relator in no way change
the situation. The first three direct "said judgment to be
paid exclusively out of such revenues
of the year
1882
and for which appropriations are made in said
amended budget, provided that any surplus of the revenues
of any subsequent year may be applied to the payment of the
debts of the year 1882, according to section 3 of act No. 30 of
1877." The last fourteen, after providing that they should be
paid out of the funds of the respective years, add, "with the
full benefit of the provisions df section 3 of act No. 30 of
1877." The proviso in all these judgments adds nothing to
the rights conferred by the act of 1877, but in terms simply
preserves them. What the position of the relator under that
act is we have just stated. The manifest purpose of the
saving clause in the judgments was to prevent the language,
which directed that they should be paid out of the funds of
the year, from being construed as preventing the city government from paying out of the surplus, if so determined by the
municipal authorities.
Judgment afirmed.

WALDRON v. WALDRON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 9T. Submitted December 4, 1894. -Decided

March 4, i895.

A bill of exceptions may be signed after the expiration of the term at
which the judgment was rendered, if done by agreement of parties made
during that term.
If such bill is not delivered to counsel within the time fixed by the agreement, objection to the failure to do so must be taken when the bill is
settled, and, if decided against the objector, the question should be
reserved.

