ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY v. GILL.

649

Statement of the Case.

maintaining such proceedings as against innocent third parties
whose interests have become involved.
The decree of the court below dismissing the bills of complaint is

Affirmed.
ST. LOUIS AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY
COMPANY v. GILL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 13. Argued January 24, 1895.-Decided March 4, 1595.

A special statutory exemption or privilege (such as immunity from taxation
or a right to fix and determine rates of fare) does not accompany the
property of a railroad company in its transfer to a purchaser, in the
absence of an express direction in the statute to that effect.
When a state legislature establishes a tariff of railroad rates so unreasonable as to practically destroy the value of the property of companies
engaged in the carrying business, courts of the' United States may treat
it as a 3udicial question, and hold such legislation to be in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, as depriving the company of its
property without due process of law, and as depriving it of the equal
protection of the laws.
RailroadCommission Cases, 116 U. S. 307 Dow v Beidelman, 125 U. S. 681,
Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Railway v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, Chicago &
Grand Trunk Bailway v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339 , and Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, examined in detail.
When, by legislation and consolidation, a railroad which was originally all
in one State becomes consolidated with other roads in other States, and
the State originally incorporating it enacts laws to regulate the rates of
the consolidated road-within its borders, the proper test as to the
reasonableness of these rates is as to their effect upon the consolidated
line as a whole.
When a State prescribes rates for a railroad, only a part of which is within
its borders, the company may raise the question of their reasonableness by
way of defence to an action for the recovery of penalties for violating
the directions.

ON the 16th day of August, 1880, under the general laws
of the State of Arkansas, a company was incorporated under
the name and style of the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Railway Company, and authorized to construct a railway
from the northern boundary of the State of Arkansas to
Fayetteville, in that State. This railroad was connected at
its northern terminus with the railroad of the St. Louis,
Arkansas and Texas Railway Company, a corporation of
the State of -Missouri, and at its southern terminus with the
railroad of the Missouri, Arkansas and Southern Railway
Company, a corporation of the State of Arkansas.
Under provisions of the laws of the States of Arkansas
and Missouri, on the 10th day of June, 1881, the three companies mentioned were consolidated into a single corporation, under the style of the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas
Railway Company, consolidated.
On and previous to the 21st day of February, 1882, it
was provided by the laws of the States of Arkansas and
lissourl that any railroad company incorporated under the
laws of the State of Missouri might lease or purchase any
part of a railroad with all its rights, privileges, immunities,
real estate, and other property, the whole or a part of which
was in the State of Missouri, and constructed, owned, or
leased by any other company, if the lines of the roads of
said companies were connected and continuous, and that any
railroad company incorporated under the laws of the State
of Arkansas, whose road was wholly or in part constructed
and in operation, was authorized to sell, lease, or otherwise
dispose of the whole or any part of its railroad, with all
the rights, privileges, franchises, and immunities thereunto
belonging, to any connecting railroad or any railroad corporation then or thereafter organized under the laws of the
State of Missouri, or of the United States, or of both.
In the manner provided by those laws, the St. Louis,
Arkansas and Texas Railway Company, consolidated, on the
21st day of February, 1882, sold and conveyed all of its
railway in the States of Arkansas and Missouri, together
with all its rights, privileges, franchises, and immunities, to the
St. Louis and San Francisco Railway Company, a corporation
organized under the general laws of the State of Missouri
and under several acts of the Congress of the United States.

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY v. GILL.

651

Opinon of the Court.

By an act of the legislature of Arkansas, approved April 14,
1887, the maximum rate of passenger fares to be charged in
that State was fixed at three cents per mile, and a penalty of
$300 was given the passenger for each overcharge. At the
fall term of 1887 of the Washington County Circuit Court,
John B. Gill brought an action against the St. Louis and San
Francisco Railway Company, alleging that said company,
operating a railroad within the State of Arkansas more than
seventy-five miles in length, had on five distinct occasions
charged and received from the plaintiff more than three cents.
per mile, and.demanding judgment for the penalties prescribed
in the said statute.
The St. Louis and San Francisco Railway Company filed
several pleas or special answers to the complaint, two of which
are alleged to raise Federal questions. To these special pleas.
the plaintiff demurred, and the demurrers were sustained. The
defendant then made several offers tending to shoiy that the
rate of three cents per mile for each passenger carried was unreasonable and did not enable the defendant to pay its interest
or to earn anything on its capital stock. These offers were
ruled out, on plaintiff's objection, as incompetent and irrelevant. Due exceptions were taken by the defendant to the
action of the court in sustaining the demurrers and in excluding plaintiff's evidence. Judgment went for the plaintiff,
which was on appeal affirmed by the Supreme Court of Arkansas, to whose judgment a writ of error was sued out to this.
court.
-Hr Edward D Kenna for plaintiff in error. Mr George
R. Peak, -Mr A. T Britton, and MP A. B. Browne were on
his brief.
-M A.
Jones and

. G arland for defendant in error.
1r6 J -. H ill were on his brief.

MR. JUSTICE S=iAS,

opinmon of the court.

-Hr D W

after stating the case, delivered the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

By the act of April 4, 1887, the legislature of Arkansas
prescribed a maximum rate of three cents per mile for each
passenger carried by the railroads of that State, and a penalty
of three hundred dollars for each overcharge, payable to the
passenger from whom such overcharge had been exacted.
It was found by the trial court, a jury having been waived,
that John B. Gill, the plaintiff, had, on several occasions,
while travelling on the railroad of the St. Louis and San Francisco Railway Company, between points within the territory
of the State of Arkansas, been charged a rate in excess of that
allowed by the statute. The defendant company set up, by
way of defence, that it operated that portion of the railroad
on which the plaintiff travelled as a purchaser and assignee of
the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas Railway Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Arkansas,
that, under the laws of Arkansas in force at the time of the
incorporation of said last-mentioned company, in April, 1880,
it had the right to fix and regulate the rate of charge for
carrying passengers, not to exceed the sum of five cents per
mile, that the legislature might from time to time, reduce the
rates, but that the same should not be so reduced as to produce, as profits for the railroad company, less than fifteen per
cent per annum on the capital actually paid in, and that until
such profits did annually accrue to said company, it and its
successors and assigns were entitled, without limitation, restriction, or control, to the right to fix such rates of fares as to it
should seem proper, not exceeding the rate of five cents per
mile, that such provisions of the law constituted a contract
between the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas Railway Company and the State, and that the St. Louis and San Francisco
Railway Company having become, in a manner and form provided by the laws of the State, the assignee of the St. Louis,
Arkansas and Texas Railway Company, and the owner of its
road, franchise, and privileges, had succeeded to its right to
charge passenger rates not in excess of five cents per mile, so
long as its profits did not exceed fifteen per cent per annum
on the capital actually paid in, that the said railroad, although
completed for about five years, had never earned in profits an.

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY v. GILL.

653

Opinion of the Court.

amount equal to three per cent on the capital actually paid in,
that the net earnings or profits for the next ensuing two years
will not exceed three per cent on the capital actually paid in or
on the amount actually expended in the construction of said railroad, that the consolidation of the St. Louis, Arkansas and
Texas Railway Company of Arkansas with the company of the
same name, incorporated in Missouri, and the sale by the company so formed of its railroad to the defendant, each severally
became and were compacts made between the States of Missouri
and Arkansas with.each other, with the consolidated company,
and with the defendant company, respectively, that the act
of April, 1887, of the legislature of Arkansas, attempting to_
fix passenger rates at less than five per cent per mile, in so,
far as it relates to the defendant's line of railway, never received the assent of the State of Missouri or of the defendant
company, and that such enactment was an alteration and impairment of a contract, and as such null and void under the
provisions of the Constitution of the United States.
To this plea or special answer the plaintiff demurred.
As a further plea or special answer the defendant company alleged, in connection with a history of the formation
of the original companies, their consolidation, and the purchase
of the consolidated railroad by the defendant, that, by a provision of the constitution of the State of Arkansas, in force at.
the time of the transactions narrated, it was provided that no
charter of any corporation should be altered, annulled, or repealed in such a manner as to do injustice to the corporators,
that the owners of the capital stock of the St. Louis, Arkansas
and Texas Railway Company are the same and identical persons who own the capital stock of the defendant company,
and that, if the rates of fare prescribed by the act of April,
1887, are enforced, the defendant company will not be able to
earn a reasonable rate of interest on its indebtedness, or to
meet the actual cost of transporting passengers and maintaining said division of its road, and that, therefore, said act of
April, 1887, as far as it is applicable to the said railroad, is in
violation of the constitution of Arkansas, and is unreasonable,,
and a taking of private property for public use without com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

pensation, and is therefore in violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.
The plaintiff demurred likewise to this plea, and the demurrers having been sustained, the defendant then offered to
show that the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas Railway Company had, on December 31, 1880, executed bonds to the
amount of $600,000 and secured the same by a mortgage of
all its property, franchises, and immunities to the United
States Trust Company of New York, which bonds were yet
wholly due and unpaid, and upon which the defendant was
required to annually pay the sum of $36,000 as interest, that
the defendant company has never, since the construction of
said lines, been able to earn, from all sources, an amount,
which, after paying for the actual expenditures, would yield
to the defendant or to the original incorporators a profit equal
to one per cent upon the capital stock actually paid in cash
and used in the construction of such lines of railroads, that
the actual cost of transporting each passenger over that
portion of the defendant's railway in the plaintiff's petition
mentioned exceeded the sum of three cents per mile, that at
the times in plaintiff's petition mentioned the defendant could
not actually perform the service of carrying the plaintiff or
any other passenger over its railway for the sum of three
cents per mile, but that the sum in cash which it was actually
required to expend in the carriage of said plaintiff and other
passengers was equal to three and three-tenths cents for each
and every mile such passenger was carried, and that if defendant was required to perform the service at the rate of three
cents per mile, it would be required to expend more money
in cash for the performance of such service than it would
receive from the passenger, and that the revenue or income
which it would receive from all sources of profit other than
the passenger traffic would not be sufficient to enable it to
make good the amount which it would lose on its passenger business, that three cents per mile for the service
rendered by the defendant in carrying passengers, at the
times in plaintiff's petition mentioned, over the line of railroad therein described, was not reasonable compensation, and

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY v. GILL.

655

Opinion of the Court.

that no less than five cents per mile would be a reasonable sum
or one that would be just to the defendant, that defendant
never had, since the construction or completion of said lines of
railway, been able to earn from all its sources of revenue an
amount which, after paying for the actual cash expenditures
necessary for the operation of its road, would yield a profit
equal to one per cent upon the actual cash cost of said road,
which amounted to over $40,000 for every mile of railway constructed.
To this evidence the plaintiff objected as incompetent and
irrelevant, the objection was sustained, and the defendant
excepted to the action of the court in sustaining the demurrers
and in rejecting the said offers of evidence. There was judgment for the plaintiff from which the defendant appealed to the
Supreme Court of Arkansas, from whose judgment, affirming
that of the court below, a writ of error was allowed to this court.
The plaintiff in error bases its demand that the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Arkansas should be reversed, on two
propositions, first, that the act of April, 1887, as applied to
the defendant's railroad, was a violation of a contract between
the State of Arkansas and the various corporations which
constructed or subsequently acquired the line of railway in
question, and, second, that, as the act, as applied to the defendant's railroad, requires the defendant to do business at a
positive loss, it therefore constitutes a taking of defendant's
property without just compensation or due process of law
The first proposition requires the plaintiff in error to show
that there existed a contract between the State of Arkansas
and the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas Railway Company,
which, under the existing facts, forbade the application of the
act of 1887 to the business of that company, and that the
plaintiff in error, the St. Louis and San Francisco Railway
Company, succeeded to such contract right.
As already stated, the constitution of Arkansas contained,
when the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas Railway Company
was organized, a provision that the general assembly should
have the power to alter, revoke, or annul any charter of incorporation then existing, or that might thereafter be created.

OCTOBER TERM, 189i
Opinion of the Court.

whenever, in their opinion, it might be injurious to the citizens
of the State, in such manner, however, that no injustice should
be done to the corporators. The law under which the St.
Louis, Arkansas and Texas Railway Company was organized
provided that the legislature might, when any such railroad
should be opened for use, from time to time, alter or reduce the
rates of toll, fare, freights, or other profits upon such road,
but the same should not, without the consent of the corporation,
be so reduced as to produce with said profits less than fifteen per
cent per annum on the capital actually paid in, nor unless, on an
examination of the amounts received and expended, to be made
by the secretary of State, he should ascertain that the net income derived by the company, from all sources, for the year
then last past, had exceeded an annual income of fifteen per
cent upon the capital of the corporation actually paid in.
The contention is that, if the facts show that the company has
not earned fifteen per cent per annum on the capital actually
paid in, the State is precluded, notwithstanding the power reserved in the constitution, from reducing the rates or charges.
The Supreme Court of the State, 54 Arkansas, 101, as we
learn from the record in this case, was of the opinion that the
power to alter and amend charters, reserved to the State in its
constitution, was not parted with or controlled by the subsequent act of the legislature incorporating the railroad company and authorizing it to establish rates, and that accordingly
the passage of a subsequent general law, prescribing rates,
could not be deemed an infringement of a contract between
the State and the company
We do not find it necessary to express an opinion on this
view of the case, but prefer to base our judgment on another
ground, which will bring us to the same result. It has been
frequently decided by this court that a special statutory
exemption or privilege, such as immunity from taxation or a
right to fix and determine rates of fare, does not accompany
the property in its transfer to a purchaser, in the absence of
express direction to that effect in the statute. XJlorgan v
-Loutstana,93 U S. 217, Wilson v Gaines, 103 U S. 417,
Chesapeake c Ohzo Railway v Miller, 114 U S. 176.

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY v. GILL.

657

Opinion of the Court.

We find here no such express statutory direction, nor is
there any equivalent implication by necessary construction.
As is said in the decision of the Supreme Court of Arkansas in
the present case "The corporations owning the several parts
of the road as to which it is charged that the act operates
unjustly were dissolved years before it was passed. As to
them it could not operate unjustly, and in their behalf no
cause of complaint can exist."
These considerations dispose of the proposition that the act
of April, 1887, if made to apply to the railroad of the plaintiff
in error, would operate as a violation of a contract subsisting
between the State of Arkansas and the St. Louis and San
Francisco Railway Company
We are thus brought to the second proposition relied on by
the plaintiff in error, that, as the act, when applied to the
defendant's railroad, requires the company to do business at a
positive loss, it therefore constitutes a taking of defendant's
property without due process of law
Whether, if the power of the State to fix and regulate the
passenger and freight charges of railroad corporations has not
been restricted by contract, there can be found, by judicial
inquiry, a limit to such power in the practical effect its exercise
may have on the earnings of the corporations, presents a question not free from difficulty Given the case of a general law
prescribing rates to all companies, can the courts inquire
whether such rates are reasonable, and may they find that as
to one company the prescribed rates permit it to do business
at a profit, and as to another, whose facilities are inferior, or
where expenditures are greater, the rates afford no profit?
And will the fate of the law, as to its validity, depend, in each
case, on, the result of such an inquiry 2
This court has declared, in several cases, that there is a remedy in the courts for relief against legislation establishing a
tariff of rates which is so unreasonable as to practically destroy
the value of property of companies engaged in the carrying
business, and that especially may the courts of the United
States treat such a question as a judicial one, and hold such
acts of legislation to be in conflict with the Constitution of the
VOL.

cmvi-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

United States, as depriving the companies of their property
without due process of law, and as depriving them of the
equal protection of the laws. Railroad Commwzswn Cases, 116
U S. 307, 331, Dow v Betdelman, 125 U S. 681, Chwago,
-Milwaukee &c. Railway v -Minnesota,134: U S.418, Chtcago
& Grand Trunk Railway v Wellman, 143 U. S.339, Reagan
v Farmers'Loan and Trust Co., 154 U. S.362.
The so-called Railroad Commsszon Cases, 116 U S. 307,
arose under an act of the State of Mississippi passed March 11,
1884, which created a railroad commission, and charged it with
the duty of supervising railroads, and particularly with the
duty of revising the tariff of charges. The Mobile and Ohio
Railroad Company had been theretofore incorporated by a
charter which granted to it "the right from time to time to
fix, regulate, and receive the tolls and charges by them to be
received for transportation." A bill was filed by the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company, a New York corporation, to enjoin
the railroad commission from enforcing against the Mobile
and Ohio Railroad Company the provisions of the railroad commission act, and averring that the complainants were the trustees in a mortgage that had been executed prior to said act, and
that the enforcement of the latter would impair their security
The court held, two justices dissenting, that the statute incorporating the company did not deprive the State of its
power, within the limits of its general authority, to act upon
the reasonableness of the tolls and charges so fixed and regulated, and reversed the decree of the Circuit Court which had
granted an injunction as prayed for in the bill. We now refer
to this case for the purpose of calling attention to the facts
that the act provided that proceedings to enforce its provisions
were to be instituted by the commission, and that the suit
was in form a bill in equity to restrain the commission from
applying the terms of the act to the Mobile and Ohio Railroad
Company
The case of Chwago Railway Co. v .Minnesota was a writ
of error to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota, awarding a writ of mandamus against the railway company The State of Minnesota by an act, approved March 7,

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY v. GILL.

659

Opinion of the Court.

1887, had established a railroad and warehouse commission,
providing that the rates of charge for the transportation of
property published by the commission should be final and conclusive as to what are equal and reasonable charges, and that
there should be no judicial inquiry as to the reasonableness of
such rates, and the railroad company contended that the rates
prescribed by the commission were unreasonable, and that, as
the company was not permitted to put m testimony as to the
reasonableness of such rates, the act was in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States, as depiving the company
of its property without due process of law, and by depriving
it of the equal protection of the laws. As heretofore stated,
the company's position was sustained, and the decree of the
Minnesota court awarding the writ of mandamus was reversed.
But it will be observed that the State was represented by the
commission, and that the remedy went to the validity of the
legislation as affecting the railroad company's business as a
whole. It was not a suit between the company and an individual customer. Mr. Justice Miller, in his concurring opinion,
said " Until the judiciary has been appealed to to declare the
regulation made, whether by the legislature or by the commission, voidable for unreasonableness, the tariff of rates so fixed
is the law of the land, and must be submitted to both by the
carrier and the parties with whom he deals, that the proper,
if not the only, mode of judicial relief against the tariff of
rates established by the legislature or by its commission is by
a bill in chancery-asserting its unreasonable character and its
conflict with the Constitution of the United States, and asking
a decree of the court forbidding the corporation from exacting
such fare as excessive, or establishing its rights to collect the
rates as being within the limits of just compensation for the
service rendered, that until this is done it is not competent
for each individual having dealings with the carrying corporation, or for the corporation with regard to each individual
who demands its services, to raise a contest in the courts over
the questions which ought to be settled in this general and
conclusive method, and that, in the present case, where an
application is made to the Supreme Court of the State to com.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

pel the railroad companies to perform the services which their
duty requires them to do for the general public, which is
equivalent to establishing by judicial proceedings the reasonableness of the charges fixed by the commission, I think the
court has the same right and duty to inquire into the reasonableness of the tariff of rates established by the commission
before granting such relief, that it would have if called upon
so to do by a bill -in chancery"
Ch'ago Railway Company v

WFellrman, 143 U S. 339, was

a contest over the vaflidity of an act of the legislature of Michigan, passed in June, 1889, fixing the amount per mile to be
charged by railwavs for the transportation of passengers.
On the very day the law took effect, to wit, October 2, 1889,
one Wellman went to the railroad company's office in Port
Huron, and tendered for a ticket from that place to Battle
Creek the sum of $3.20 instead of $4.80, which had been the
regular fare. This was refused, and Wellman immediately
brought an action for damages, and recovered a judgment for
$101, an amount sufficient to take the case to a higher court,
and ultimately the Supreme Court of Michigan affirmed the
judgment sustaining the validity of the law But the observations of this court by Mr. Justice Brewer are very pertinent
to the present case. After stating the facts of the case, he
said "Can it be, under these circumstances, that the court
erred in peremptorily refusing to instruct the jury that an act
fixing a maximum rate at two cents per mile is unconstitutional 2 Is the validity of a law of this nature dependent
upon the opinion of two witnesses, however well qualified to
testify 2 Must court and jury accept their opinion as a finality2 Must it be declared, as a matter of law, that a reduction of rates necessarily diminishes income 2 May it not be
possible, indeed does not all experience suggest the probability,
that a reduction of rates will increase the amount of business,
and therefore the earnings 9'" And referring to the following observation made by the Supreme Court of Michigan in
passing upon the case "In the stipulation of facts or in the
taking of testimony in the court below neither the attorney
general nor any other person interested for or employed in

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISOO RAILWAY v. GILL.

661

Opinion of the Court.

behalf of the people of the State took any part. What
difference there might have been in the record had the people
been represented in the court below, however, in our view of
the case, is not of material inquiry," Mr. Justice Brewer
added "We think there is much m the suggestion. The
theory upon which, apparently, this suit was brought is that
parties have an appeal from the legislature to the courts,
and that the latter are given an immediate and general supervision of the constitutionality of the acts of the former. Such
is not true. Whenever, in pursuance of an honest and actual
antagonistic assertion of rights by one individual against
another, there is presented the validity of any act of any
legislature, state or Federal, nd the decision necessarily
rests on the competency of the legislature so to enact, the
court must, in the exercise of its solemn duties, determine
whether the act be constitutional or not, but such an exercise
of power is the ultimate and supreme function of courts. It is
legitimate only in the last resort, and as a necessity in the
determination of real, earnest, and vital controversy between
parties. It was never thought that, by means of a friendly suit,
a party beaten in the legislature could transfer to the courts an
inquiry as to the constitutionality of the legislative act.
Our suggestion is only to indicate how easily courts may be
misled into doing grievous wrong to the public, and how careful
they should be not to declare legislative acts unconstitutional
upon agreed and general statements, and without the fullest
disclosure of all material facts."
Similar observations may be found in Dow v Besdelman,
125 U. S.680, a case wherein the validity of the very act now
in question was assailed, and where this court affirmed the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas sustaining the
act. In that case the action had been brought by a passenger
claiming penalties because he was charged more than the
statutory rates, and the case went off on an agreed statement
of facts, and it was said in this court, by Mr. Justice Gray
" The plaintiffs in error do not contend that it is always or
generally unreasonable to restrict the rate for carrying each
passenger to three cents a mile. They argue that it is so in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinon of the Court.

case, by reason of the admitted facts, that with the same
traffic that their road now has, and charging for transportation at the rate of three cents per mile, the net yearly income
will pay less than one and a half per cent on the original
cost of the road3 and only a little more than two per cent on
the amount of its bonded debt. But there is no evidence
whatever as to how much money the bonds cost, or as to the
amount of the capital stock of the company as reorganized,
or as to the sum paid for the road by that corporation or its
trustees. It certainly cannot be presumed that the price paid
at the sale under the decree of foreclosure equalled the original cost of the road, or the amount of outstanding bonded
debt. Without any proof of the sum invested by the reorganized corporation or its trustees, the court has no means, if
it would under any circumstances have the power, of determining that the rate of three cents a mile fixed by the legislature was unreasonable. Still less does it appear that there
has been any such confiscation as amounts to a taking of the
property without due process of law"
Reagan v Farmers' Loan and Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, is
the last case to which we deem it necessary to refer. The
principal facts of the case were these In April, 1891, the
legislature of Texas passed an act establishing a railroad commission with power to classify and regulate rates. After the
commission was organized it proceeded to establish certain
rates for the transportation of goods over the railroads in the
State. Thereafter, in April, 1892, the Farmers' Loan and
Trust Company of New York filed a bill in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Texas, making as defendants the railroad commissioners, the attorney
general, and the International and Great Northern Railroad
Company
The bill alleged that the complainant was the
trustee in a mortgage on said railroad to secure a series of
bonds, and averred generally that the rates fixed by the commission were unreasonable and unjust, and set forth certain
specific facts which it claimed established the injustice and
unreasonableness of those rates, and prayed a decree restraining the commission from enforcing those rates or any other

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY v. GILL.

663

Opmion of the Court.

rates, and also restraning the attorney general from instituting any suits to recover penalities for failing to conform to
such rates. The International and Great Northern Railroad
Company appeared, filed an answer, and also a cross-bill similar in its scope and effect to the bill filed by the plaintiff, and
praying substantially the same relief. The commission and
the attorney at first filed answers, which they subsequently
withdrew and filed demurrers, leave being given at the same
time to the complainant and cross-complainant to amend the
bill and cross-bill before the filing of the demurrer. The
amendments contained allegations in considerable detail of
the losses in revenue sustained by the company through the
enforcement of the statutory rates, and the average reduction
caused thereby in the rate theretofore existing.
The Circuit Court entered a decree granting the injunctions
as prayed for, restraining and forbidding the commission from
enforcing the established rates, and from making or publishing any other or further rates.
The opinion of this court on appeal was that while it was
within the power of a court of equity in such case to decree
that the rates so established by the commission were unreasonable and unjust, and to restrain their enforcement, it was
not within its power to establish rates itself, or to restrain the
commission from again establishmg rates.
After recognizing the previous cases as establishing the
proposition that, while it is not the province of courts to enter
upon the merely administrative duty of framing a tariff of
rates for carnage, it is within the scope of judicial power and
a part of judicial duty to restrain anything which, in the form
of a regulation of freights, operates to deny to the owners of
property invested in the business of transportation that equal
protection which is the constitutional right of all owners of
other property, the court proceeded to consider and discuss
the question whether the rates prescribed by the commission
were unjust and unreasonable. Upon reading the opinion
it is obvious that the principal difficulty encountered was
whether the facts alleged in the bill and cross-bill, conceded
by the demurrers to be true, furnished the court sufficient evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

dence to enable it to find, as a judicial conclusion, that the
statutory rates were unreasonable, and Mr. Justice Brewer,

who delivered the opinion of the court, after reciting a broad
allegation in the bill, said "It may not be just to take this
as an allegation of a mere matter of fact, the truthfulness of
which is admitted by the demurrer, and which, as thus admitted, eliminates from consideration all questions as to the
true character and effect of the rates, yet it is not to be
ignored. There are often in pleadings general allegations of
mixed law and fact, such as the ownership of property and
the like, which, standing alone, are held to be sufficient to
sustain judgments and decrees, and yet are always regarded
as qualified, limited, or even controlled by particular facts
stated therein. It would not, of course, be tolerable for a
court of equity to seize upon a technicality for the purpose or
with the result of entrapping either of the parties before it.
Hence, we should hesitate to take the filing of the demurrers
to these bills as a direct and explicit admission on the part of
the defendants that the rates established by the commission
are unjust and unreasonable. It must be noticed that at first
answers were filed, tendering issue upon the matters of fact,
and testimony was taken, the extent of which, however, isnot
disclosed by the record. After that the defendants applied
for leave to withdraw their answers and file demurrers. It is
not to be supposed that this was done thoughtlessly But one
conclusion can be drawn from that action, and that is, that
upon the taking of the testimony defendants became satisfied
that the particular facts were as stated in the bills, and that
the conclusions to be drawn from such facts could not be overthrown by any other matters. Hence, if it appears that the
facts stated in detail tend to prove that the rates are unreasonable and unjust, we must assume, as against the demurrers,
that the general allegation heretofore quoted is true, and that
there are no other and different facts which, if proved, might
induce a different conclusion, and compel a different result."
As already stated, the defendant's railway was composed
by consolidation of one incorporated in Missouri and of two
incorporated in the State of Arkansas. The allegations con-

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY v. GILL.

665

Opimon of the Court.

tamed in the fourth answer of the railroad company have
reference to that part of the defendant's railroad that originally belonged to the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas Railway Company, incorporated under the laws of the State of
Arkansas. Those allegations were to the effect that such
portion of the railroad was traversed by the plaintiff below,
and was highly expensive to construct and maintain, and
that the cost of transporting passengers over said division
and the maintenance thereof exceed the maximum fixed by
the act of 1887. The offers of evidence we also understand,
notwithstanding their general terms; to have been intended
to sustain the allegations contained in the fourth answer, and
not to be applicable to the company's entire railroad. Thus
one of the offers was to show that "the actual cost of carrying
,each passenger over that portion of defendant's railway in
plaintiff's petition mentioned, and over all its railway therein
referred to, did and does now exceed the sum of three cents
per mile for each and every passenger so carried," and another
was to show that "three cents per mile for the service ren-dered by defendant in carrying passengers, at the times in
plaintiff's petition mentioned, over the line of railroad therein
mentioned, was not reasonable compensation, and that no less
than five cents per mile would be a reasonable sum."
It therefore appears that the allegations made and the
evidence offered did not cover the company's railroad as an
entirety even in the State of Arkansas, but were made in
reference to that portion of the road originally belonging to
the St. Louis, Arkansas and Texas Railway, and extending
from the northern boundary of Arkansas to Fayetteville in
said State. In this state of facts we agree with the views of
the Supreme Court of Arkansas, as disclosed in the opinion
contained in the record, and which were to the effect that the
,correct test was as to the effect of the act on the defendant's
entire line, and not upon that part which was formerly a part
of one of the consolidating roads, that the company cannot
claim the right to earn a net profit from every mile, section,
or other part into which the road might be divided, nor attack
as unjust a regulation which fixed a rate at which some such

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

part would be unremunerative, that it would be practically
impossible to ascertain in what proportion the several parts
should share with others in the expenses and receipts in which
they participated, and, finally, that to the extent that the
question of injustice is to be determined by the effects of
the act upon the earnings of the company, the earnings of the
entire line must be estimated as against all its legitimate
expenses under the operation of the act within the limits of
the State of Arkansas.
Sometimes in acting on this subject the state legislatures
have created commissions or boards of public works, with
power to establish rates for the transportation of passengers
and freight, and in such instances the course recommended by
Mr. Justice Miller, already cited, may well be followed, that
the remedy for a tariff alleged to be unreasonable should
be sought in a bill in equity or some equivalent proceeding,
wherein the rights of the public as well as those of the
company complaining can be protected.
But there are other cases, and the present is one, where the
legislatures choose to act directly on the subject by themselves
establishing a tariff of rates and prescribing penalties. In
such cases there is no. opportunity to resort to a compendious
remedy, such as a proceeding in equity, because there is no
public functionary or commission which can be made to
respond, and therefore, if the companies are to have any
relief it must be found in a right to raise the question
of the reasonableness of the statutory rates by way of defence
to an action for the collection of the penalties.
However, we have seen that, in the present case, the evidence failed, in that it was restricted to a part only of the
railroad, and that even if the evidence could be understood as
applicable to the entire line in Arkansas, there was no finding
of the facts necessary to justify the courts in overthrowing the
statutory rates as unreasonable, but that, on the contrary, the
company's case depended on allegations admitted by the demurrer of a party who, in no adequate sense, represented the
public, and, upon the whole, we do not feel warranted, by all
that appears in this record, in declaring invalid an act of the

NORFOLK & WESTERN RAILROAD v. PENDLETON. 667
Syllabus.
legislature of Arkansas, which on its face appears to be a legitimate exercise of power, and which has not been shown, by
clear and satisfactory evidence, to operate unjustly and unreasonably, in a constitutional sense, against the plaintiff in error.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is accordingly
Affirmed.

ST. Louis AND SAN FnAxcisco RAILWAY OoMP ry v. STEVENSAwi 'v. TRImBLE, No. 175, SA5rn v. OAITER,No.
176. These cases were argued with, and are similar in their facts
to, the case of Bt. Loum and San Franctsco Railway Cormpany v.
John B. Gill, No. 173, just decided, and are to be similarly disposed
of. An additional fact, that a portion of the road travelled over
consisted of a bridge, built under authority of an act of Congress, is
made to appear, but as no point is made or argued m the brief of
the plaintiff in error, and as we see in such fact nothing that would
affect the result, the judgments of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
in those cases are
Affirmed.
SON, No. 174,

Mr Edward D. Kenna for plaintiff in error.
Mr A. H. Garlandfor defendant in error.

NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILROAD

COMPANY

v. PENDLETON.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE

SUPREME

COURT OF

A.PPEALS OF

THE STATE OF

VIRGINIA.
Nos. 153, 859. Submitted January 14,1895. - Decided March 4, 1895.

The fifth section of the charter from the State of Virginia to the Atlantic,
Mississippi and Ohio Railroad Company, which vested it "with all the
rights and privileges conferred by the laws of this Commonwealth, and

