OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

recovery sought was not the price and interest thereon, but
the sum of the damage resulting from eviction. All such
damage was, therefore, the principal demand in controversy,
although interest and price and other things may have constituted some of the elements entering into the legal unit, the
damage which the party was entitled to recover. Whether,
therefore, the court below considered the interest as an instrument or means for ascertaining the amount of the principal
demand, is wholly immaterial, provided the principal demand
as made and ascertained was within the jurisdiction of the
court. Indeed, the confusion of thought which the assertion
of want of jurisdiction involves is a failure to distinguish
between a principal and an accessory demand. The sum of
the principal demand determines the question of jurisdiction,
the accessory or the interest demand cannot be computed for
jurisdictional purposes. Here the entire damage claimed was
the principal demand without reference to the constituent
elements entering therein. This demand was predicated on a
distinct cause of action - eviction from the property bought.
Thus considered, the attack on the jurisdiction is manifestly
unsound, since its premise is that a sum, which was an essential ingredient in the one principal claim, should be segregated
therefrom, and be considered as a mere accessory thereto.
Judgment affirmed.

BANK OF RON OUT v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 11.

Argued December 18, 1894. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

A decree by a Circuit Court dismissing a bill in equity as to one defendant
who had demurred, leaving the case undisposed of as to other defendants
who had answered, does not dispose of the whole case, and is not a final
decree from which an appeal can be taken to this court.

THIS was a bill filed by the National Bank of Rondout,
New York, against David R. Smith, in his own right and as

BANK OF RIONDOUT v. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

surviving copartner of D. iR. Smith & Company, E. P Smith,
Thomas R. McGahan, Daniel C. Stelling, Moses Brown and
others, composing the firm of M. Brown, Sons & Company,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
South Carolina, alleging that the bank recovered a judgment
in that court December 15, 1887, against D R. Smith, surviving copartner of D. R. Smith & Company, for the sum
of $13,844.7- and costs of suit, "and is entitled to recover
against the said D. IR.Smith as surviving copartner of D I.
Smith & Company and individually, and to be paid out of the
property of said firm and out of the individual property of
said David R. Smith, the above-named sum, with interest on
the said debt." It was then averred that, April 27, 1885,
judgment was recovered in said Circuit Court by default for
$9397.17 in favor of Daniel C. Stelling, a citizen of the State
of Georgia, against the firm of D. R. Smith & Company, on
service of process on D. R.Smith, and that on the same day
judgment was rendered by default for $1446.83 in favor of
M. Brown, Sons & Company, citizens of Pennsylvania, against
D. IR.Smith & Company on service of process on D. R. Smith,
that executions were issued on these judgments and delivered
to the United States marshal for the District of South Carolina, April 28, 1885, were levied April 30, 1885, and certain
tracts of timber lands, and a steam saw mill, engines, boilers,
etc., sold thereon at about one-tenth the value of the property
to one Thomas R. McGahan, and a deed of conveyance made
to him September 7, 1885, that immediately thereafter Mrs.
E. P Smith, the wife of D. R. Smith, was put in possession by
McGahan, and had been using the property, and in the actual
reception of the rents and profits thereof in collusion with
her husband and McGahan from the day of the sale on execution to the time of the filing of the bill. The bill further
alleged that the causes of action upon which the judgment in
favor of Stelling purported to have been recovered were a
note and eight drafts of D. B. Smith & Company, payable to
the order of Claussen & Company, and endorsed by the payees
in blank, that the record in Stelling's action did not show
who composed the firm of Claussen & Company or the citizen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

ship of the members of that firm, and that they were citizens
of South Carolina, that the causes of action upon which the
judgment in favor of M. Brown, Sons and Company purported to have been recovered were a certain note and drafts
of D. R. Smith & Company payable to the order of E. Bates
& Company, and by the latter endorsed, and that in that
action the names of the members of Bates & Company and
their citizenship were not shown of record, but that they
were citizens of South Carolina, that AleGahan was a member of the firm of Bates & Company, and, on information, that
they were the real owners of said note and drafts. The bill
charged that jurisdiction in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of South Carolina in the two actions in
which these judgments were recovered was attempted to be
obtained by plaintiffs in said actions by suppressing the fact
that the payees in the notes and drafts were citizens of the
same State as the makers thereof, and that judgments by
default were suffered by D R. Smith in favor of these plaintiffs
by collusion with them "and with a view to the protection of
the property of said D IR. Smith against his other creditors
and to defeat their just rights." The bill prayed that the
judgments, the sales thereunder, and the deed or deeds of the
United States marshal be set aside and declared null and void,
that a receiver be appointed, an account decreed, the property be sold and the proceeds applied to the payment of liens
thereon according to their priority, the unsecured creditors of
D IR. Smith & Company out of the balance, and the creditors
of the individual partners out of their individual property,
and for general relief.
A copy of the deed of the marshal was annexed to the bill
as an exhibit, which recited the levy of both executions, the
sales thereunder of certain tracts of land, buildings, and
improvements, ("except the steam saw mill, with engines,
boilers, and all appurtenances belonging thereto known as
Smith's Mills,") and conveyed said lands, etc., to McGahan.
Brown, Sons & ComAnswers were filed to the bill by M'N.
pany, Thomas R. McGahan, D R. Smith, and E. P Smith,
,and replications thereto. Defendant Daniel C. Stelling filed a

BANK OF RONDOUT v. SMITH.
Opnion of the Court.

general demurrer, which, having been heard, was sustained
by the court, and complainant prayed an appeal to this court
as set forth in the opinion. Citation was issued to all the
defendants returnable on the first Monday of May, 1891, and
service accepted for McGahan, Stelling, D R. and E. P Smith,
but not on behalf of the members of the firm of M. Brown,
Sons & Company, and they were not served.
XP Theodore G Barker for appellant.
.Mr Henry A. -1. Smith for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
A decree to be final for the purposes of appeal must leave
the case in such a condition that if there be an affirmance in
this court, the court below will have nothing to do but execute
the decree it has already entered. Daznese v KendaZl, 119
U. S. 53. In this case the record contains no decree disposing
of the case as to all the parties. The orders were as follows
December 3, 1890 "This cause having come on to be heard
at the November term, 1890, upon the demurrer of Daniel C.
Stelling to the bill of complaint herein, and counsel on
both sides having been heard It is thereupon adjudged and
decreed that the said demurrer be sustained." On the same
day the following appears "The complainant in the aboveentitled cause having m open court, at the present term of this
court, prayed that an appeal be allowed to it from the judgment of this court sustaining the demurrer of Daniel C. Stelling, defendant, and dismissing the bill It is ordered that said
appeal be allowed." On March 14, 1891, the appeal was perfected as to Stelling by giving a bond in the sum of $250 running to Stelling, and reciting that lately at a regular term of
the Circuit Court "a decree was rendered against the said complainant on the demurrer of said Daniel C. Stelling, dismissing
said bill against the said defendant, Daniel C. St'elling, and the
said complainant having obtained leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of-the United States from said decree," etc. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

errors assigned are to the action of the Circuit Court "in sustaining the demurrer of defendant Daniel C. Stelling, and in
dismissing the bill as to said Daniel C. Stelling, defendant."
And appellant's counsel designated among the parts of the
record necessary for the consideration of the errors upon
which he intended to rely "The decree of the Circuit Court
sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the bill of complaint
as to Daniel C. Stelling."
So far as appears the case stands at issue below as to the
defendants other than Stelling, and the whole cause has not
been finally determined in the Circuit Court. It cannot be
divided so as to bring up successively distinct parts of it, and
the decree is not a final decree.
It may be that if the order of the Circuit Court were
affirmed appellant would abandon further effort against the
other defendants, while it is clear enough that if the order
were reversed the case would be proceeded in against them
all, but it is useless to speculate on the subject, as this appeal
manifestly falls within the general rule.
In .Mendenhiallv Hal, 134 U S. 559, the suit was brought
by Mendenhall against Clark N. Hall and Charles F Hall.
Charles F Hall demurred and filed a special plea to the bill.
Clark N. Hall also demurred. The demurrer and plea of Charles
F Hall were both sustained, and by a decree entered May 13,
1885, the bill was dismissed as to him. The demurrer of Clark
N. Hall was overruled, and he answered, and the cause went to
decree against hum April 14, 1886. An appeal was taken to
this court by the plaintiff, who executed an appeal bond which
ran "to the defendants." Charles F Hall was not served with
notice of the appeal, and when the case was reached on our
docket and that fact appeared, a citation was directed to be
served upon him, or, if he was dead, upon his representative.
The citation was executed upon his widow, who was also
administratrix of his estate. On the argument here, it was
suggested that no appeal had been taken as to Charles F Hall,
and that this court was without jurisdiction over the case as
to him, but we held that the appeal brought before us not only
the final decree of 1886, but also that of 1885, sustaining the

CONNELL v. SMILEY.
Syllabus.

demurrer and plea of Charles F Hall and dismissing the suit
as to him., and that it was not necessary to take an appeal from
the latter order until after the whole case was determined in
the court below
In Hill v Chwago & Evanston Railroad,140 U. S. 52, a
decree had been rendered June 8, 1885, dismissing a bill as to
certain parties for want of equity, and denying relief to complainant upon all matters and things in controversy except as
to an amount of money paid by one of the defendants, and for
the purpose of ascertaining that amount the case was retained
as to some of the defendants, which finally resulted in a decree,
July 14, 1887, as to that severable matter. It was held that,
under these circumstances, the decree of June 8, 1885, was a
final decree as to all matters determined by it, and that its
finality was not affected by the fact that there was left to be
determined a further severable matter, in respect of which the
case was retained only as against the parties interested in that
matter. An appeal had been prayed from the decree of June
8, 1885, but the transcript of the record not having been filed
here at the next term after the appeal was taken, it was, on
motion, dismissed. Hill v Chicago & Evanston Railroad,129
U S. 170.
Thins decree cannot, however, be brought within the exception created by the peculiar circumstances of that case.
As the order upon the demurrer did not dispose of the whole
case, the decree is not final, and we cannot entertain jurisdic
tion.
Appeal dismissed.

CONNELL v. SMILEY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 14.

Submitted January 22, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

A party in a cause pending in a state court who petitions for its .removal to
a Federal court, or who consents to its removal, cannot after removal
object to it as not asked for in time.

