OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

tice of a court of chancery How inadequate and incongruous
the legal remedy is in a case lille the present is shown by the
so-called judgment. It does not adjudge a sum of money as
due by the defendants to the plaintiff whose payment could
be enforced by appropriate writs of execution, but it awards a
judgment in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendants
by decreeing a reduction or abatement of the legal assessments, there existing no legal writ by which the defendants
can be compelled to respect or obey the decree.
It is, therefore, clear that the court below should have sustained the defendants' demurrer or exception, and dismissed
the suit.
This view of the case takes from our cognizance the several
errors assigned to the admission and rejection of evidence and
to the charge of the court, nor are we called upon, with the
record in its present shape, to decide whether questions were
really presented which gave the Circuit Court of the United
States jurisdiction, whether at law or in equity, at the suit
of a national bank organized and doing business in the district
in which the suit was begun.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the cause
remanded wtdh directons to sustain the exceptson and
dismizss the suit.

CARR v. FIFE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 215.

Submitted January 80, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

It is too late to urge in this court stipulations between parties not brought

to the attention of the court below.
The value of the matter in dispute, if not stated in the record, may, for the

purpose of jurisdiction, be shown by affidavits.
The fact that a Circuit Judge, prior to his appointment, had been counsel

for one of the parties in matters not connected with the case on trial, does
not disqualify him from trying the cause.

CARR v. FIFE.
Statement of the Case.
An objection that the receiver took part with the register on the hearing
and decision of a case in the land office cannot be taken for the first
time in this court.
Taking all the facts together, it is quite clear that the receiver and the register affirmatively found the fact of abandonment.
The decision of"the land office upon the questions involved in this case was
conclusive, unless the charges of fraud and conspiracy were sustained,
and it is evident that the court below carefully considered the evidence
on these points.
When a plaintiff seeks to invalidate a patent of land by averring misconduct
on the part of officials in a contest case, a complete record of the proceedings is relevant and important.
In the absence of fraud and imposition the findings. and decisions of the
land office cannot be reviewed as to the facts involved.

IN the District Court of the Second Judicial District of
Washington Territory, in April, 1887, Anthony P Carr filed a
bill of complaint against W H. Fife and others, including the
executors of Edward S. Smith, deceased, seeking to set aside
a patent of the United States to one Robert E. Sproul, issued
on December 13, 1875, granting certain lands of the United
States lying in the county of Pierce, and to have the defendants, who derived their titles to parts and parcels of said lands
from the said Sproul, declared to hold the same in trust for
the said plaintiff, and that they be required to execute conveyances thereof to the said plaintiff.
The defendants appeared and put in an answer and a crossbill, to which the plaintiff demurred. On August 7, 1888, the
demurrer to the answer was overruled and that to the crossbill was sustained. An examiner was appointed and evidence
was put in, and, on November 25, 1888, the cause was put
down for hearing in the said District Court of the Second
Judicial District of Washington Territory, and was submitted
for decision on December 17, 1888. But before any decision
was rendered, the Territory was admitted into the Union as a
State. It was thereupon stipulated that the cause should be
submitted to the Superior Court of Pierce County, State of
Washington, on the pleadings, evidence, and briefs of counsel.
Before the said Superior Court of Pierce County took any
action the cause was, on May 26, 1890,. at the instance of the
defendants, under the provisions of section 23 of the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

approved February 22, 1889, 25 Stat. c. 180, pp. 676, 683,
transferred to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Washington. On July 28, 1890, the plaintiff in
the action moved the Circuit Court to remand the cause to
the Superior Court of Pierce County, which motion was
overruled, as was likewise a subsequent motion or petition to
have the cause tried by the Circuit Judge, or, if he were
unable to sit, by the District Judge for the District of Oregon.
On January 28, 1891, a final decree was entered, dismissing
the bill. A motion was made February 10, 1891, to vacate
the decree and remand the cause to the Superior Court of
Pierce County, upon the alleged grounds that the same had
been improperly removed, and that the Circuit Court had not
acquired jurisdiction thereof, because it had not been made to
appear at the time of such removal that the matter in dispute
exceeded, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum of two
thousand dollars. The Circuit Court permitted affidavits to
be filed on behalf of the defendants, averring that the matter
in dispute largely exceeded the amount necessary to give the
court jurisdiction, and then overruled the motion to vacate
the decree and remand the cause. An appeal was then
allowed to this court.
Mr John ArthAr, Mr Thomas Carroll,and Mr Heber J
May for appellant.
M1r Galusha Parsonsfor appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SHIiAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The ninth specification of error complains of the refusal of
the court below to remand the cause to the Superior Court
of Pierce County upon the showing that, after the admission
of the State of Washington, it had been stipulated by the
counsel of the respective parties that said cause might be tried
in said Superior Court. But the record shows that the reasons
assigned in the court below for the motion to remand did not.

CARR v. FIFE.
Opinion of the Court.

mention such a stipulation, and it is out of time and place to
urge it in this court.
The tenth assignment asserts want of jurisdiction in the
Circuit Court, at the time of entering the final decree, because
the record did not contain a specific allegation that the matter
in dispute exceeded the sum of two thousand dollars. If the
record were defective in the particular mentioned, we think
that the amendment by affidavits, disclosing that the value
of the matter m dispute largely exceeded the jurisdictional
amount, cured the defect. The procedure would have been
more formal if the decree had been set aside, and renewed
after the amendment had been made, but the term at which
the decree was entered had not ended, so that the court sfill
had power to permit an amendment of the record, and we
do not feel compelled to reverse the decree because of the
manner in which the court below exercised its power of
amendment. Besides, it is not clear that the record was
defective in the respect clained. The suit was not one to
recover a sum of money, but to decide a question of title to a
considerable tract of land, and the plaintiff put in evidence
in support of his claim, and of course before the decree was
entered, tending to show that the land was worth more than
ten thousand dollars, and if it be competent, as has always been
held, to show by expa"te affidavits the amount of the value
of the matter in dispute, it would seem that evidence to the
same effect, deliberately put in by the very party now suggesting the defect, should be regarded as sufficient. It is also
observable that the plaintiff, in his petition for an appeal,
averred that the value of the property in dispute exceeded
the sum of ten thousand dollars, and while, doubtless, that
allegation, made for the purpose of showing that this court
has jurisdiction on appeal, would not, of itself, supply the
defect in the record of the Circuit Court, it is convincing
that, in point of fact, the land in dispute was worth more than
two thousand dollars, and that the plaintiff was not injured by
the action of the court in permitting the record to be amended
by affidavits supplying the formal averments of value.
Another error assigned is to the refusal of the court to
VOL. cLvI-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

direct that the cause should be tried by the Honorable Lorenzo Sawyer, Circuit Judge, or in the event that it be found
inconvenient for the Circuit Judge to try the cause, that the
same be certified to the adjacent circuit of Oregon. The basis
of this motion was an affidavit made by the plaintiff, alleging
that the District Judge of the District of Washington, before
whom the cause was about to come on for argument, had
been, prior to his appointment as such judge, of counsel for
some of the defendants.
The learned judge, in refusing the motion, stated that the
motion was put upon the statement that he had been employed
as an attorney by some of the defendants before his appointment to the office in matters not connected with the case, and
that, as be was the only judge then present and able to try
the cause, he was of opinion that it was his duty to do so.
Understanding then, as we do, that the ground of objection
was that the judge had been, prior to his appointment, attorney
for some of the defendants on matters not connected with the
present case, we do not perceive that he was disqualified from
trying the cause. In such a state of facts, the judge must be
permitted to decide for himself whether it was improper for
him to sit in the trial of the suit.
This was a proceeding in equity whereby Anthony P Carr
sought to have the defendants, who derived their titles to
certain lands from Robert E. Sproul, to whom had been
granted in 1875 a patent for said lands, declared trustees for
his benefit on the ground that the patent had been improperly
issued, and the substantial question in the case is as to what
effect ought to be given to the proceedings and decision of the
land office.
Appellant's first contention is that the tribunal that tried
the case between Carr and Sproul was illegal in respect that
instead of the register acting alone, the receiver took part in
the hearing and decision. It is provided, in section 2297, Revised Statutes, that proof of abandonment is to be made out to
the satisfaction of the register of the land office, and the record
discloses that the evidence in the present case, on the question
of abandonment, was put in before the register and the re-

CARR v. FIFE.
Opinion of the Court.

ceiver, and that the finding was signed by both officers. No
objection, however, seems to have been made while the hearing
was in progress before them, nor was the participation of the
receiver made a ground of exception in the appeal to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, or in the further appeal
to the Secretary of the Interior. Nor was such participation
complained of by the plaintiff in his bill of complaint, or
called to the attention of the court below We do not consider it necessary to decide whether in such an inquiry in the
land office the receiver may validly take part, because we
think an objection on that ground is made too late in this
court.
The next position taken by the appellant is that the register
and receiver went outside of their jurisdiction, .which it is
claimed was restricted to the question of abandonment, and
recommended thecancellation of Carr's entry on other grounds
than that of abandonment.
An examination of the proceedings in the land office does
not sustain this position. They began with Sproul's application for a contest, in which Carr's abandonment of the tract
is alleged. This was followed by the notice from the register
and receiver to Carr that such a contest had been initiated,
and fixing a time and place for him to attend and " furnish
testimony concerning said alleged abandonment," and the
record discloses that a large amount of evidence was put in on
that issue.
It is true that the register and receiver, in their written decision, made August 18, 1873, wherein they decided in favor
of the contestant, Sproul, used the following language. " From
these occasional visits to the claim we can but draw the conclusion that said A. P Carr did not wholly abandon his said
claim, but we are more strongly of the opinion that the utter
disregard of the spirit of this beneficent law, which gives to
the poor man upon easy and reasonable terms what he could
not otherwise obtain, would in equity be sufficient ground for
cancellation of the homestead entry No. 1368, of A. P Carr."
Standing alone, this language would seem to give some color
to the contention that the officers had failed to find the fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of abandonment, and had- placed their decision on merely
equitable grounds. But when the statement quoted is read
in connection with the entire report or decision, it is quite
plain that the fact of abandonment was affirmatively found.
The language criticised was elicited by evidence adduced by
Carr, by which it was sought to show continuous possession,
but which the officers regarded and found to rather show a
want of good faith on the claimant's part - a mere pretended
compliance with the law, and hence the expressions used
were really the very opposite, m their actual meaning, to
that now attributed to them. In effect it was said that, even
if, instead of exacting strict legal proof by Carr of his compliance with the law, the case were to be equitably considered,
the conclusion must still be that his entry should be cancelled.
This finding by the register and the receiver was approved
by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and subsequently by the Acting Secretary of the Interior.
Finally, it is contended that the court below erred in not
going behind the decision of the Land Department, and in
not giving effect to complaiant's evidence as if the controversy
were wholly independent of that decision.
An inspection of the opinion of the court below, however,
discloses that the judge, while properly holding that the
decision of the land office was conclusive unless the charges
of conspiracy and fraud contained m the appellant's bill were
sustained, yet considered the evidence with evident care.
Objection was made in the court below to the admission
in evidence of the record in the case of Anthony P Carrv.
The Tacoma Land Company, as incompetent and irrelevant.
As the contest in that case was about a different piece of
land, it is not easy to see what purpose was served by putting
the record in evidence - apparently to base thereon a crossexamination of the appellant, going to show that his place of
residence was not consistent with his claim in this case. But
it does not appear that the court deemed this evidence as having the least importance. It is not even referred to in the
opinion, and its admission cannot, in any point of view, be
deemed ground for a reversal of the decree below

CARR v. FIFE.
Opinion of the Court.

So, too, we are unable to see that there was error in admitting the record of the proceedings in the contest in the land
office. The effort is made to sustain this objection by citing
Smelting Co. v Zenp, 1041 U S. 636, 640. But in that case the
offer was to show, in an action at law, a record of the proceedings in the land office in order to impeach the patent, and
the ruling was that, as against a patent regular upon its face,
-and in an action at law, such an offer was inadmissible. But
here, when the plaintiff was endeavoring, by a bill in equity,
to invalidate a patent by averring misconduct on the part of
the officials in the contest case, a complete record of their
proceedings was not only relevant, but of the utmost importance, if the incidents attending the contest in the land office
were to be at all a subject of inquiry
We cannot undertake to review the evidence in detail, but
we have read it in the light afforded by an able brief filed on
behalf of the appellant, and have been unable to find any satisfactory proof of fraud and imposition, but for which the
appellant would have been entitled to himself receive the
patent.
Nor can we accede to the argument that the Land Department fell into errors of law, by disregarding the appellant's
evidence of the nature of his entry and of his character as a
soldier applicant. The question really was whether or not
he had abandoned the tract of land and had failed to comply
with the directions of the law, and that question was found
against the appellant.
Of course, in the absence of fraud and imposition, the findings and decision of the land office.cannot be reviewed as to
the facts involved, and the court below would not have been
warranted in interfering with the title of the patentee and his
0
vendees. Lee v Johnson, 116 U S. 48.
These views lead to the conclusion reached by the court
below, and render it unnecessary to consider the defence of
the statute of limitations discussed in the appellee's brief.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

