OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ANDREWS v. SWARTZ.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 710. Submitted January 21, 1895. -Decided

February 4, 1895.

A review by the appellate court of a State of a final judgment in a criminal
case is not a necessary element of due process of law, and may be
granted, if at all, on such terms as to the State seems proper.
The repugnancy of a state statute to the Constitution of the State will not
authorize a writ of habeas corpus from a court of the United States,
unless the petitioner is in custody by virtue of such statute, and unless
also the statute conflicts with the Federal Constitution.
When a state court has entered upon the trial of a criminal case, under a
statute not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and has
jurisdiction of the offence and of the accused, mere error in the conduct
of the trial cannot be made the basis of jurisdiction in a court of the
United States to review the proceedings upon writ of habeas corpus.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

_Mr George M. Slizpman for appellant.
.ir

William A. Stryker for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN

delivered the opimon of the court.

Andrews, the appellant, was convicted in the Court of Oyer
and Terminer for the county of Warren, New Jersey, of the
crime of murder in the first degree, and sentenced to suffer
the punishment of death.
He applied to the Chancellor of the State for a writ of
error, under a statute of New Jersey, providing that "writs
of error in all criminal cases not punishable with death, shall
be considered as writs of right, and issue of course, and in
criminal cases punishable with death, writs of error shall be
considered as writs of grace, and shall not issue but by the
order of the Chancellor for the time being, made upon motion
or petition, notice whereof shall always be given to the
attorney general or the prosecutor for the State." Rev Stat.

ANDREWS v. SWARTZ.
Opimon of the Court.

N. J (Revision of 1877) ยง 83 of Crim. Procedure, p. 283. This
application was denied on the 6th of March, 1894.
On the 17th day of April, 1894, two days preceding that
fixed for the execution of the sentence of death, the accused
presented to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey a petition for a writ of habeas corpus,
alleging that he was restrained of his liberty in violation of
the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The petition alleged that there was no sufficient cause for
the restraint of his liberty, and that his detention in custody
was illegal for the following reasons
"First. He is of African race and black in color, that all
persons of his race and color were excluded in the drawing of
the grand jury which indicted him and from the petit jury
which were summoned to try him, and that the sheriff of
Warren County, New Jersey, who by the law of said State
has sole power to select said jurors, purposely excluded such
citizens of African descent.
"Second. That by reason of such exclusion petitioner was
denied the equal protection of the laws, and did not have the
full and equal benefit thereof in the proceedings for the
security of his life and liberty as is enjoyed by white persons
and to which he is justly entitled.
"Third. That all persons of African race and of color were
excluded from the grand jury by which the indictment
against the defendant was found and upon which he was
tried, and, consequently, said indictment was illegal and void,
and petitioner ought not to have been put to trial upon said
indictment, and the trial court was without jurisdiction, and
that said persons were qualified in all respects to act both as
jurors and grand jurors, but were purposely excluded, and
always have been, by the sheriff of Warren County
"Your petitioner therefore prays that the court will grant
to him the writ of habeas corpus according to the statute in
such case made and provided, and will inquire into the cause
of said imprisonment, and vacate and set aside the said verdict
of guilty, and stay the judgment of conviction, and that the
petitioner may have a new trial, and that he may be disvoL. cLV-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

charged from the said imprisonment, and, further, will grant
a writ of certwram to the Court of Oyer and Terminer of
the county of Warren, commanding them to certify to this
court true copies of the lists of grand and petit jurors for the
term of December, 1893, and of the indictment and other
proceedings in said cause of the State v George Andrews,
under and by virtue of which petitioner is held in custody"
It was also alleged in the petition that when the accused was
arraigned "he called the attention of the court to the manner
of selecting jurors and to the fact that citizens of African
descent were purposely excluded by the sheriff of Warren
County from the grand jury which found the indictment and
from the petit jury summoned to try petitioner, and asked for
an order of the court to take testimony to prove his allegations, and that, according to the law and practice of the court,
petitioner's application should have been entertained and
decided upon the merits, and he should have been permitted
to take testimony to show the unjust and illegal action of the
said sheriff of Warren County, but that the court absolutely
refused his motion and refused to hear the proof which petitioner offered himself ready to make and produce, and compelled him to go to trial."
There was annexed to the petition what purported to be a
copy of the proceedings before the state court, as reported by
a stenographer, and the petitioner averred that by reason of
the action of the court in permitting him "to be tried by a
jury from which citizens of African descent were purposely
excluded he was deprived of the rights and privileges which
white persons would enjoy and to which the petitioner is
justly entitled."
The Circuit Court refused to issue a writ of habeas corpus
upon the ground that it appeared upon the face of the application that the accused was not entitled to it. An appeal
from that order was allowed in pursuance of the act of Congress in such case made and provided.
The statute of New Jersey entitled "An act regulating
proceedings in criminal cases," approved March 27, 1874,
(Revision of 1877, p. 266,) which declares that writs of error

ANDREWS v. SWARTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

in criminal cases punishable with death shall be considered
writs of grace and not writs of right, (lb. 283,) was brought
forward from an act passed March 6, 1795. Laws of New
Jersey, Revision of 1821, pp. 181, 186, ยง 13.
The contention of the appellant is that such a statute is in
violation of the Constitution of the United States. If it were
necessary, upon this appeal, to consider that question, we
would only repeat what was said in M Kane v Durston, 153
U. S. 684, 687 "An appeal from a judgment of conviction is
not a matter of absolute right, independently of constitutional
or statutory provisions allowing such appeal. A review by an
appellate court of the final judgment in a criminal case, however grave the offence of which the accused is convicted, was
not at common law and is not now a necessary element of due
process of law It is wholly within the discretion of the State
"It is, therefore,
to allow or not to allow such a review"
clear that the right of appeal may be accorded by the State
to the accused upon such terms as in its wisdom may be
proper;" and "whether an appeal should be allowed, and if
so, under what circumstances or on what conditions, are matters for each State to determine for itself."
Whether, as is contended, the above statute in its application to capital cases is in violation of the constitution of New
Jersey, is not necessarily a Federal question, and upon that
point we need not, therefore, express an opinion. The repugnancy of a statute to the constitution of the State by whose
legislature it was enacted cannot authorize a writ of habeas
coryus from a court of the United States unless the petitioner
is in custody by virtue of such statute, and unless also the
statute is in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States.
The further contention of the accused is that he is restrained
of his liberty in violation of the Constitution and laws of the
United States, in that persons of his race were arbitrarily excluded, solely because of their race, from the panel of jurors
summoned for the term of the court at which he was tried,
and because the state court demed him the right to establish
that fact by competent proof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

It is a sufficient answer to this contention that the state
court had jurisdiction both of the offence charged and of the
accused. By the laws of New Jersey the Court of Oyer and
Terminer and general jail delivery has "cognizance of all
crimes and offences whatsoever which, by law, are or shall be
of an indictable or presentable nature, and which have been
or shall be committed within the county for which such court
shall be held." Rev Stat. N. J 272, ยง 30. If the state
court, having entered upon the trial of the case, committed
error in the conduct of the trial to the prejudice of the
accused, his proper remedy was, after final judgment of conviction, to carry the case to the highest court of the State
having jurisdiction to review that judgment, thence upon writ
of error to this court, if the final judgment of such state court
denied any right, privilege, or immunity specially claimed,
and which was secured to him by the Constitution of the
United States. Even if it be assumed that the state court
improperly denied to the accused, after be had been arraigned
and pleaded not guilty, the right to show by proof that
persons of his race were arbitrarily excluded by the sheriff
from the panel of grand or petit jurors solely because of their
race, it would not follow that the court lost jurisdiction of the
case within the meaning of the well-established rule that a
prisoner under conviction and sentence of another court will
not be discharged on habeas corpus unless the court that
passed the sentence was so far without jurisdiction that its
proceedings must be regarded as void. Ex yarte Siebold, 100
U S.371, 375, In Pe lFood, 140 U S. 278, 287, In re Shibuya
Jugtro, 140 U S. 291, 297, Pepke v Uronan, 155 U S. 100.
When a state court has entered upon the trial of a criminal
case, under a statute not repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States, and has jurisdiction of the offence and of the
accused, no mere error in the conduct of the trial should be
made the basis of jurisdiction in a court of the United States
to review the proceedings upon writ of habeas corpus.
The application to the Circuit Court for a writ of habeas
corpus was properly denied, and the judgment must be
Aflirmed.

