OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

longer than it was for his interest to do so, since, immediately
after his discharge was obtained, he made application to the
state court in which the judgment had been rendered, for an
order to vacate it upon the ground that the judgment was
void by reason of the service of summons by publication, as
well as that it had been barred by the discharge in bankruptcy The court granted his motion to vacate his judgment
upon the latter ground, though this order was reversed on
appeal to the Supreme Court.
Our conclusion is that, as matter of law, appellant is now
estopped to claim that the judgment of the California court
was void for want of jurisdiction.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,

Afirmed.

CITIZENS'

SAVING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION v.
PERRY COUNTY

ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 56.

Argued and submitted March 29, 1694. -Decided

March 4, 1S95.

July 3, 1869, the qualified voters of Perry County Illinois, voted to subscribe to the capital stock of the Belleville & Southern Illinois Railroad and
to issue its bonds in payment thereof, conditioned that " no bonds should
beissued or stock subscribed until the railroad company should locate
their machine shops at Duquoin." In December, 1870, the county court
directed the bonds to be issued, and they were issued duly executed,
and were delivered to the company and by it put into circulation, but
the shops were never located at Duquoin. Held, In view of the legislation of Illinois reviewed in the opinion, and of the provisions in the
constitution of 1870, which came into force after the vote to issue the
bonds, but before their issue, that the county court by its order to issue
the bonds, and the county officers by issuing them, violated their duty
as prescribed by the statutes; and as the bonds contained no recital pre
cluding inquiry as to the performance of the condition upon which the
people voted in favor of their issue, it was open to the county to show

CITIZENS' SAVING ASSO'N D. PERRY COUNTY.

693

Opinion of the Court.
that it had not been performed, which being shown, the bonds became
subject to the provisions of the constitution of 1870, and were invalid.
The bonds issued by the same county to the Chester & Tamaroa Coal &
Railroad Company were issued in obedience to a vote of the people
taken at an election ordered and held with reference to the act of April
16, 1869, referred to in the opinion of this court, which act required that
a majority of the legal voters living in the county should be in favor of
the subscription, and as the county court, in ordering the issue of the
bonds, certified on its record that all the conditions prescribed had been
complied with, and as the fact that a majority of the voters living in the
county at the time of the election did not vote for the issue of the bonds
is not determinable by any public record, Held, that it would be rank
injustice to permit it to be set up after the lapse of so many years, and
that the issue was valid and the bonds are binding in the county.

THE. case Is stated in the opinion.
-Mr, George A. Sanders for plaintiff in error.
B. Sanders filed a brief for same.

.Mr William

.Mr Thomas J -Layman,for defendant in error, submitted
on his brief.
Iffiz. JusTi-E HAF.LAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought to recover the amount df certain
coupons taken from bonds issued in the name of Perry
County, Illinois, and made payable, some of them, to the
Belleville and Southern Illinois Railroad Company or bearer;
others, to the Chester and Tamaroa Coal and Railroad Com-

pany or bearer.
The bonds, in each instance, were issued in payment of a

subscription in the name of that county to the capital stock
of the corporations to which they were respectively made

payable.
The parties, by written stipulation, waived a jury and the
case was tried by the court.

It was found by the court that an election was held in
the county of Perry on the 3d day of July, 1869, upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

question of subscription to the capital stock of the Belleville
and Southern Illinois Railroad Company, to be paid by
the bonds of that county, that the notices for the election
contained a clause providing, among other things, that "no
bonds should be issued or stock subscribed until the railroad
company should locate their machine shops at Duquoin," and
that the shops, costing about $150,000, were located at East
St. Louis and not at Duquoin.
In respect of the bonds issued to the Chester and Tamaroa
Railroad Company it was found that the proposition for a
subscription by the county to the capital stock of that corporation, upon which the people voted February 19, 1870,
"did not receive a majority of the qualifid voters of the
county, 986 votes only being cast in favor of it, while at the
last preceding general election held in November, 1869, there
were 2024: votes thrown," in other words, that the proposition failed, by 27 votes, to receive a majority of the qualified
voters of the county
The conclusion of law as to each class of bonds was that, by
reason of the facts so found, they were void for want of
power to issue them.
First. The bonds issued to the Belleville and Southern
lRailroad Company.
The Belleville and Southern Illinois Railroad Company
was ihcorporated by an act of the general assembly of Illinois,
approved February 14, 1857, with authority to locate, construct, and operate a railroad from the city of Belleville in
St. Clair County southwardly by way of the village of
Pinckneyville to some eligible point on the Illinois Central
Railroad in Perry County By the ninth section of its charter the directors of the company were "authorized and
empowered to take and receive subscriptions to their said
capital stock on such terms and in such amounts as they may
deem for the interest of said company, and as they may prescribe by their by-laws and regulations, from any other railroad company or corporation, and from any county, city,
town, or village, and any such subscriptions shall be valid
and binding upon any railroad company, corporation, county,

CITIZENS' SAVING ASSO'N v. PERRY COUNTY.

695

Opinion of the Court.

city, town, or village making the same Proded,Said subscriptions shall be made in every respect subject to the provisions and restrictions of an act supplemental to an act
entitled 'An act to provide for a general system of railroad
incorporations,' approved November 6 1849." It was provided that the road should be completed within eight years
from the passage of the act.
The act of 1849, here referred to, gave cities and counties
authority to purchase or subscribe for shares of the capital
stock of any railroad company then organized or incorporated,
or which might be thereafter organized or incorporated, in
any sum not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars for each
city or county- the stock so subscribed for or purchased to
be under the control of the county court of the county or the
common council of the city making the subscription or purchase in all respects as stock owned by individuals. ยง 1.
Authority was given to pay for such stock by borrowing
money or issuing bonds. ยง 2. Railroad companies then or
thereafter organized or incorporated, under the laws of the
State, were authorized to receive at par the bonds of any
county or city becoming subscribers to their capital stock.
1 Gross' 111. Stat. 1869, p. 552.
By that act it was further provided
"ยง 4. No subscription shall be made, or purchase or bond
issued by any county or city under the provisions of this act,
whereby any debt shall be created by said judges of the county
court of any county, or by the common council of any city,
to pay any such subscription, unless a majority of the qualified
voters of such county or city (taking as a standard the number of votes thrown at the last general election previous to the
vote had upon the question of subscription under this act for
and if a
county officers) shall vote for the same,
majority of the voters of said county or city, assuming the
standard aforesaid, shall be in favor of the same, such authorized subscription or purchase, or any part thereof, shall be
then made by said judges or common council. In case any
election had under this act is held, upon a day of general
election, then the number of votes thrown at such general

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

election for county officers shall be the standard of the
number of qualified voters as aforesaid.
" I Gross'
Ill. Stat. 1869, pp. 552, 553.
These bonds were dated January 1, 1871, and made payable
twenty years after date to the railroad company or bearer,
with interest at seven per cent per annum. Each bond, signed
by the county judge and the county clerk, and attested by the
county seal, contained the following recitals: "This bond is
one of a series of one hundred of like tenor and date, issued
under the authority, and in accordance with the requirements
of an act of the legislature of the State of Illinois, entitled
' An act to incorporate the Belleville and Southern Illinois
Railroad,' approved February 14, 1857, and is redeemable at
the pleasure of said county at any time after the first day of
January, A.D. 1876." Each coupon, signed by the same officers,
was in this form. "The county of Perry, State of Illinois,
will pay to the bearer seventy dollars on the first Monday of
January, 1889, being the interest on bond No.
issued to the
Belleville and Southern Illinois Railroad Company"
On the day the bonds were directed by the county court to
be issued, namely, December 5, 1870, the following communication and certificate under the county seal, and verified by
the oath of the county judge, was sent to the Auditor of
Public Accounts of Illinois
"SIR I herewith transmit to you for registration in your
office under the provisions of the act entitled 'An act to fund
and provide for paying the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities, and towns, in force April 16, 1869,' the following
bonds, being one hundred in number, dated January 1, 1871,
amounting to ($100,000) one hundred thousand dollars, payable on the first day of January, 1891, and bearing interest at
the rate of seven per centum per annum -payable annually
These bonds are issued by the county court of the county of
Perry and State of Illinois to the Belleville and Southern Illinois Railroad Company, under and by authority of the provisions of an act entitled ' An act to incorporate the Belleville
and Southern Illinois Railroad,' approved February 14, 1857,
and I, as judge of the county court of said county, do hereby

CITIZENS' SAVING A SO'N v. PERRY COUNTY.

697

Opinion of the Court.

certify that all the preliminary conditions in the act in'force
April 16, 1869, required to be done to authorize the registration
of these bonds and entitle them to the benefits of the said act
last referred to have been fully complied with, to the best of
my knowledge and belief."
Upon each bond was endorsed a certificate by the Auditor
,of Public Accounts of the State of Illinois, under his seal of
office, "that the within bond has been registered in this office
this day, pursuant to the provisions of an act entitled ' An act
to fund and provide for paying the railroad debts of counties,
townships, cities, and towns,' in force April 16, 1869."
Although these bonds did not upon their face expressly
refer to the railroad act of 1849, the recital in them that they
were issued under the authority of and in accordance with the
act of 1857 incorporating the railroad company imports a
compliance with the provisions of the former act, for the act
of 1857 declares that the subscriptions authorized by it should
be made in every respect subject to the provisions and restrictions of the act of 1849. If, therefore, the case depended
alone on the acts of 1857 and 1849, in connection with the
recitals in the bonds, the conclusion would be that the county
of Perry rightfully subscribed to the stock of the Belleville
and Southern Illinois Railroad Company to the extent of one
hundred thousand dollars (for which amount the subscription
was made and the bonds issued), and that the county was
estopped, by the representations made in the recitals of the
bonds, as between it and bona fide holders thereof, from
relying upon any irregularities in the exercise of its power to
.ubscribe that did not involve the substance of the power
itself.
But we are not at liberty to look alone to the acts of 1857
and 1849, and the recitals in the bonds. Although the election relating to the subscription of the stock was held July 3,
1869, the county court did not make its order for the issue of
bonds until after the section of the constitution of Illinois of
1870, forbidding municipal subscriptions to the stock of railroad corporations, went into operation, which, as held in
Schall v Bowman, 62 Illinois, 321, Loutsville v. Azimgs

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Bank, 104 U S. 469, and Concord v. Robmnson, 121 U. S.
165, 169, was on the second day of July 1870. That provision was in these words "iNo county, city, township, or other
municipality shall ever become subscriber to the capital stock
of any railroad or private corporation, or make donation to or
loan its credit in aid of such corporation Proded,however,
That the adoption of this article shall not be construed as
affecting the right of any such municipality to make such
subscriptions where the same have been authorized,under extsting laws by a vote of the people of such municipalities prior
to such adoption." I Charter and Constitutions, 491. Touching this constitutional provision, we have heretofore held
that, since July 2, 1870, "no municipal corporation of Illinois
has possessed authority to subscribe to the stock of a railroad
or private corporation, or to make donations to or loan its
credit to them, except that a subscription or donation, lawfully
voted by the people before the adoption of that section,
could be completed upon the terms and conditions approved
by the electors. There is no saving of the right of such
corporations to loan their credit to railroad corporations, where
such loan of- credit was not embraced in a vote previously
taken under existing laws, and which was favorable to a
subscription of stock or a donation." "The constitution took
away all power to impose upon the township any greater
burdens than the people had by vote lawfully assumed under
existing statutes." "They [purchasers of the township bonds]
were bound to know that the power of the township, after
July 2, 1870, was restricted by the constitution to a completion of such subscription or donation as had been lawfully
voted before that date, if not upon the precise terms and
conditions attached thereto by the vote of the people, upon
such terms as did not increase the burden." Concord v
Robinson, 121 U. S. 165, 169.
At the time - May 26, 1869 - the county court ordered an
election to ascertain the popular will as to the proposed
subscription to be paid by bonds of the county, the act of
April 16, 1869, entitled "An act to fund and provide for
paying the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities, and

CITIZENS' SAVING ASSO'N v. PERRY COUNTY.

699

Opinion of the Court.

towns," was in full force. That act was referred to in the
endorsement made on each bond by the Auditor of State, as
well as in the official communication of the county judge of
Perry County transmitting them for registration. It applied
to every county, township, incorporated city or town that
had created a debt in aid of the construction of railways
that were to be completed within ten years after its passage,
as well as those which should create a debt of the character
named under any law of the State. It contained the following, among other provisions
"ยง 7. And it shall not be lawful to register any bonds
under the provisions of this act, or to receive any of the
benefits or advantages to be derived from this act, until after
the railroad in aid of the construction of which the debt was
incurred shall have been completed near to or in such county,
township, city, or town, and cars shall have run thereon,
and none of the benefits, advantages, or provisions of this
act shall apply to any debt unless the subscription or donation creating such debt was first submitted to an election of
the legal voters of said county, township, city, or town,
under the provisions of the laws of this State, and a majority of
the legal voters living in said county, township, city, or town
were in favor of such aid, subscription, or donation, and any
county, township, city, or town shall have the rtght, upon
making any subscription or donation to any railroad company,
to prescribe the conditions upon which bonds, subscriptions,
or donations shall be made, and such bonds, subscriptions, or
donations shall not 1e ialid and binding until such condifions
precedent shall have been complied with. And the presiding
judge of the county court, or the supervisor of the township,
or chief executive officer of the city or town, that shall have
issued bonds to any railway or railways, immediately upon
the completion of the same near to,. into, or through such
county, township, city, or town as may have been agreed
upon, and the cars running thereon, shall certify under oath
that all the preliminary conditions in this act required to
be done, to authorize the registration of such bonds and to
entitle them to the benefits of this act, have been complied

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

with, and shall transmit the same to the state auditor, with
a statement of the date, amount, number, maturity, and rate
of interest of such bonds, and to what company and under
what law issued, and thereupon the said bonds shall be
subject to registration by the state auditor, as hereinbefore
provided." Pub. Laws Ill. 1869, pp. 317, 319.
Now it is found as a fact that the people voted for the subscription on the condition, specified in the election notices, that
no subscription should be made nor bonds issued until the
company's machine shops were located at Duquoin. The act
of 1869 not only authorized the electors to prescribe such
a condition, but declared that no bonds, subscriptions, or donations, that were voted on prescribed conditions, shall have
been "valid and binding until such conditions precedent should
have been complied with." That the location of the company's
machine shops at Duquoin was a condition precedent to the
making of a subscription or the issuing of bonds in payment
thereof is placed beyond question not only by the special finding of facts but by the orders of the county court which
were made part of the record for the purpose of presenting
the exceptions taken to those orders as evidence in the case.
The order of the county court, made May 24, 1869, submitting to popular vote, at an election to be held July 3, 1869,
the question of subscription, provided
"And be it further ordered, that no bonds be issued or
stock be subscribed by said court to the Belleville and Southern Illinois Railroad Company, unless twelve hundred and
thirty legal voters of said county shall have voted in favor of
the same at said election, nor until said company shall have
built said road, and put the same in operation from Belleville
to Duquoin, through the town of Pinckneyville, with depot
and depot buildings at said town, nor unless said road shall
be in operation from Belleville to Duquoin on or before the
first day of January, A.D. 1871, and shall locate thew mac/?.ne
shops at said Duquomn. And be it further ordered that said
bonds shall be in the sums of not less than one hundred nor
more than one thousand dollars, payable at any time within
twenty years from their date, at the option of the said county

CITIZENS' SAVING ASSO'N v. PERRY COUNTY.

'701

Opinion of the Court.

-

court, bearing interest at the rate of 7 per cent per annum,
and issued under the provisions of the act of the legislature of
Illinois of November 6, 1849, and act of April 16, A.D. 1869,
entitled 'An act to fund and provide for the paying of the
railroad debts of counties, townships, cities, and towns.' "
Looking then at the act of April 16, 1869, and the c.onstitution of Illinois, there is no escape from the conclusion that
the condition precedent, imposed by popular vote, that no
bonds should be issued until or unless the company located its
machine shops at Duquoin, was in full force when the election
was ordered and held, as well as when the constitutional limitation upon municipal subscriptions was prescribed, and that
both the county court by its order of December 5, 1870,
directing the issue and delivery of the bonds, and the county
officers, who executed them, violated their duty as prescribed
by the statute.
But it is urged that the bonds having been executed and
issued by those whose duty it was to execute and issue them
whenever that could be rightfully done, the county is estopped
to plead their invalidity as between it and a bona f1de purchaser for value. This argument would have force, if the
material circumstances bringing the bonds within the authority given by law were recited in them. In such a case, according to the settled doctrines of this court, the county would
be estopped to deny the truth of the recital as against bona
ftde holders for value. But this court, in Buchanan v _itchAld, 102 U. S. 278, 292, upon full consideration, held that the
mere fact that the bonds were issued, without any recital of
the circumstances bringing them within the power granted,
was not in itself conclusive proof in favor of a bonaf/de holder,
that the circumstances existed which authorized them to be
issued.
In the bonds here in question there are no recitals precluding inqmry as to the performance of the conditions upon
which the people, after the passage of the act of April 16,
1869, voted in favor of a subscription to be paid by bonds of
the county Those recitals only imply that the bonds were
issued under the authority and in accordance with the acts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

1857 and 1849. Those who took them must be held to have
known that the constitution of 1870 withdrew from municipal
corporations authority to subscribe to the stock of, or to lend
their credit to, railroad corporations, except for the purpose of
completing subscriptions authorized under previous laws by a
vote of the people. And they must also be held to have
known that by the act of 1869 no subscription voted on
conditions precedent could be rightfully made nor bonds
rightfully issued until such conditions were performed. If,
notwithstanding the express declaration in the act of 1869 as
to the invalidity of bonds issued without the performance of
conditions precedent imposed by popular vote, the county
court prior to the constitution of 1870, without the sanction
of a popular vote, could have waived the condition as to the
location of the machine shops at Duquoin, there is no evidence
on its records or otherwise that it did so. And it is clear that
they could not, after the 2d of July, 1870, materially change
the conditions imposed by the electors. It is equally clear
that the recitals by the county officers in the bonds themselves
do not import any such change nor a compliance with the
provisions of the act of 1869 in respect to the performance of
the conditions voted.
The plaintiff in error is mistaken when it insists that its
position, as to the conclusive effect of the recitals in the bonds,
is sustained by the decision in -Insurance Co. v Bruce, 105
U S. 328. The bonds there in suit recited that they were
issued by virtue of the charter, approved April 15, 1869, of
the particular company to which they were delivered, as well
as by mrtue of the act of Ayril 16, 1869. The court held
that the latter act did not make it obligatory to impose conditions upon the issuing of bonds, but only gave the right to prescribe conditions, that the recitals farl5 imported that nothing remained to be done in order to make the bonds binding
obligations upon the town in the hands of bona fde purchasers. "Under these, circumstances," the court said, "the
town, by every principle of 3ustice, is estopped, as against a
bona fide holder, to plead conditions, the existence of which
were withheld from the public either to facilitate the negotia-

-

CITIZENS' SAVING ASSO'N v. PERRY COUNTY.

703

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the bonds in the markets of the country, or because it.
had full confidence that the railroad company would meet the
prescribed conditions. It should not now be heard to make a
defence inconsistent with the recitals upon its bonds, or upon
the ground that the conditions imposed, of which the purchasers had no notice, have not been performed."
The fact that the bonds in suit in Insurance Co. v Bruce
recited that they were issued in virtue of the act of April 16,
1869 - implying thereby that they were issued conformably,
in all respects, to the provisions of that act -was alluded to
by this court in German,Bank v Franklin County, 128 U. S.
526, 540, 542, where one of the questions was whether a
county in Illinois, issuing bonds which, upon their face, made
no reference whatever to the act of April 16, 1869, was
estopped to show that they were issued in disregard of certain
conditions precedent imposed by popular vote. The court,
referring to the grounds of the decision in Insurance Co.
v Bruce, said "The view taken was that, as the town
of Bruce had power, under the seventh section of the act of
April 16, 1869, to make an unconditional subscription, and
to issue and deliver its bonds in advance of the construction of
the road, and as the -onds recited that they were wssued by
ivrtue of the act of April 16, 1869, it was too late to claim
that they had been issued in violation of the special conditions. In the case now before us, as before said, there is no
reference, in the bonds, to the act of April 16, 1869, and no
statement in the bonds that they were issued by virtue of that
act." And what was said in German Bank v Franklin
County in relation to the registration of the bonds is applicable to the present case "The registration of the bonds by
the state auditor has nothing to do with any of the terms or
conditions on which the stock was voted or subscribed.
Neither the registration nor the certificate of registry covers
or certifies any fact as to compliance with the conditions prescribed in the vote on which alone the bonds were to be
issued. The recital in the bonds does not contain any reference to the act of April 16, 1869, or certify any compliance
with the provisions of that act, and the certificate of registry

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

merely certifies that the bond has been registered in the
auditor's office pursuant to the provisions of the act of April
16, 1869. The statute does not require that the auditor
shall determine or certify that the bonds have been regularly
or legally issued." In Cairo v Zane, 149 U. S. 122, 141, 142,
this court, while holding, upon the authority of German Bank
v Franklin County, that the certificate of registry was not
conclusive that the bonds were issued in full compliance with
the terms and conditions of a subscription of stock, adjudged
that the certificate of registry in the office of the state auditor
could be relied upon as showing that what the city of Cairo
did, in that case, amounted to a subscription of stock, which
the statute gave it a right to make, rather than to a donation,
which it could not legally make. It is to be observed, also,
that the bonds there in suit recited that they were issued pursuant as well to an ordinance of the city council of Cairo as to
a vote of the citizens of that city, and in accordance with the
laws of the State. The recital that they were issued in
accordance with the laws of the State brought that case
within the rule announced in Insurance Co. v Bruce, rather
than within that announced in German Bank v Franklin

County.
We cannot assume that the location of the company's machine shops at Duquoin was deemed by the voters to be a
matter of no consequence. It may well be that the election
turned upon the question of the location of those shops in the
county at a named place.
It results from what has been said, that, as the recitals in
the bonds issued to the Belleville and Southern Illinois Railroad Company neither expressly nor by necessary implication
imported a compliance with the condition precedent imposed
by popular vote in reference to the location of the company's
shops at Duquoin, it was open to the county to show that that
condition was not performed when the bonds were issued by
order of the county court, and had never been performed.
That being shown, the case is not brought within the reservation or saving made by the state constitution in favor of subscriptions authorized by popular vote prior to July 2, 1870.

CITIZENS' SAVING ASSO'N v. PERRY COUNTY

705

Opinion of the Court.

In this view the judgment, holding the bonds issued to the
Belleville and Southern Illinois Railroad Company to be mvalid, was right.
Second. The bonds ssued to the Chester and Tamaroc Coal
and Railroad Company.,
The Chester and Tamaroa Coal and Railroad Company was
incorporated by an act approved March 4, 1869, with authority
to construct, complete, and operate a railroad from Chester in
Randolph County, Illinois, easterly on the most eligible route
by the way of Pinckneyville to Tamaroa in Perry County
'The history of the bonds issued to this company is fully disclosed in the orders of the county court of Perry County
On the 18th day of January, 1870, that body, at a special
term on that day begun, ordered an election to be held at the
usual places of voting in the several precincts of the county of
Perry, on the 19th day of February, A.D. 1870, by the judges;
of election appointed at the September term, 1869, of the.
court, to ascertain if the county court would subscribe onehundred thousand dollars to the capital stock of the Chesterand Tamaroa Coal and Railroad Company The order provided that no stock be subscribed "unless nine hundred and:
eighty-four (984:) legal voters of said county shall have voted'
-for the same at said election," "that the subscription skouldi
be paid in county bonds in sums of not.less than one hundred,
dollars nor more than one thousand dollars each, payable at,
any time within twenty years from date, at the optionk of the.
county court, bearing interest at the rate of seven per cent per.
annum," "said bonds to be registered and paid as provided in!
an act entitled an 'Act to fund and provide for paying, rail-.
road debts of counties, townships, cities, and towns,' in force.
April 16, 1869, but no bonds shall be registered or paid. except
in the following manner and upon the following conditions, to.
wit $50,000 of said bonds shall be issued to said railroad and.
coal company, when they shall have completed said road- and,
cars for passengers and freight, shall have run thereon to..
Pinckneyville, in said Perry County, and depot and depot.
buildings shall have been established or built within the corporate limits of said town of Pinckneyville, providedthe work on
VOL. cLvi-45.

OCTOBER TERMe,

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

said road shall commence at Tamaroa and depot and depot
buildings shall have been established or built within the corporate limits of said town of Tamaroa, and be it further ordered
that the residue, $50,000, shall be issued when said road shall
be completed through the county, and thence to the terminus
of said road, and cars shall have been run thereon, and all necessary depot and depot buildings have been established or built
as above required and specified. The ballots in favor of subscribing the stock shall contain the words 'for subscription'
and those against the subscription, 'against subscription.' "
At the regular term of the county court, held March 8, 1870,
an order was made which referred to the previous one for an
election, and proceeded "And whereas, in pursuance of said
order and published notices thereof, as required by law, said
election was held in said county on the 19th day of February,
A.D. 1870, and whereas it appears from the returns of said
election on file in the county clerk's office of said county, and
the certificate of the board of canvassers that a majority qf the
,legal voters of saul county of Perry (assuming the standard regu-ired by law and the said order of the court, takng as a basis
the number of votes cast at the last general electon for county
ojflcers) having voted in favor of subscribing said stock: lNow,
therefore, it is ordered by the court, in pursuance of said order
,of court and the election held thereunder, and the statutes in
such case made and provided, that the county of Perry, in the
State of Illinois, do subscribe one hundred thousand dollars to
the capital stock of the Chester and Tamaroa Coal and Railroad Company, to be paid in bonds issued in accordance with
said order of court under which said election was held, and to
be registered and paid as provided by an act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois, in force February 16, 1869, entitled ' An act to fund and provide for paying the railroad debts
.of counties, townships, cities, and towns,' and it is further or'dered by said court that the judges of this court subscribe said
stock on the books of said company, and that the same be attested by the clerk of this court under the seal of this court."
On the 8th of June, 1870, the county court, in regular term,
made an order showing the delivery to it on that day of a

CITIZENS' SAVING ASSO'N v. PERRY COUNTY.

707

Opinion of the Court.

certificate of stock issued bythe Chester and Tamaroa Coal
and Railroad Company, which certificate was ordered to be
recorded and filed, that the county had subscribed and was
entitled to the benefits of one thousand shares of $100 each,
of the capital stock of the company, "to be paid in Perry
County bonds, as provided by the terms of subscription made
by the county court on the books of the company and the
election held on the 19th day of February, 1870, authorizing
said court to make said subscription, and transferable on conditions as provided in the by-laws."
At a special term of the county court, held November 10,
1871, the county court made an order reciting all previous
orders, and stating that the company had completed their
railroad from Tamaroa to Pinckneyville, had run cars for
freight and passengers thereon, had built depot buildings in
Tamaroa and Pinckneyville, and had complied with and fulfilled all the conditons of the order of the court made at its
January speciaZ-term, 1870, to entitle it to have and rece've
from the county of Perry the ,rst zssue of sazd bonds. That
order concluded as follows
"Now, therefore, be it ordered by the court that Charles
E. R. Winthrop, judge of the county court, and J Carroll
Harriss, clerk of said court, sign and deliver to said company
or their authorized agent or attorney fifty bonds of said
county for the sum of one thousand dollars each, that the
said bonds be of date of the first day of July, 1871, and draw
interest from their date, payable semi-annually, at the American Exchange National Bank, in the city of New York, and
that all coupons on said bonds maturing on and previous to
the said first day of July, 1871, be cut off by the said Charles
E. R. Winthrop, judge, and J Carroll Ilarriss, clerk of said
court, before delivering the same to said company, and that
the said judge of the county court be authorized to certify
under oath that all the conditions of the order made on the
18th day of January,1870, above recited, have been complied

with by the said Ohester and Tamaroa Coal and Railroad
Company, and that said bonds be registered and paid in pursuance of an act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

entitled 'An act to fund and provide for paying the railroad
debts of counties, townships, cities, and towns.' "
On the 15th of November, 1871, a certificate similar in form
to the one issued December 5, 1870, in reference to the bonds
to the ]elleville and Southern Railroad Company, and verified by the oath of the county judge and under the county
seal, was sent by that officer to the Auditor of Public Accounts of Illinois. And on the 6th day of December, 1871, a
like certificate was made by the county judge in respect to
fifty other bonds issued by the county to the Chester and
Tamaroa Coal and Railroad Company
The bonds issued to the last-named company were similar,
in their general form, to those issued to the Belleville and
Southern Illinois Railroad Company, each one being signed
by the county judge and the county clerk, under the county
seal, and containing the following recitals "This bond is
one of a series of bonds, issued by the county of Perry, in
payment of one hundred thousand dollars of the capital stock
of the Chester and Tamaroa Coal and Railroad Company, in
pursuance of an election held by the legal voters of Perry
County, Illinois, on the 19th day of February, 1870, and by
virtue of the provisions of an act of the general assembly of
the State of Illinois, entitled ' An act to provide for a general
system of railroad incorporation,' approved November 6, 1849.
And for the payment of said sum of money, and accruing interest thereon, and in the manner aforesaid, the faith of the
county of Perry, State of Illinois, is hereby irrevocably pledged,
as also its property, revenue, and resources." Each coupon
signed by the county judge and county clerk was in this form
"The county of Perry will pay to bearer on the 1st day of
July, 1888, at the American Exchange Bank, in the city of
New York, thirty-five dollars, it being six months' interest on
bond No. 52 for $1000."1
Upon each bond was endorsed a certificate by the auditor of
public accounts to the effect "that the within bond has been
registered in this office this day pursuant to the provisions of
an act entitled 'An act to fund and provide for paying the
railroad debts of counties, townships, cities, and towns, in
force April 16, 1869."

CITIZENS' SAVING ASSO'N v. PERRY COUNTY.

709

Opinion of the Court.

We have seen that the only ground upon which the court
below held these bonds to be not binding obligations of the
county was that the proposition to subscribe $100,000 to the
capital stock of the company received only 986 votes in its
favor, whereas at the last general election in the county 2024
votes were cast. The court, we infer, had in mind the provision of the act of November 6, 1849j under the authority of
which the bonds purport upon their face to have been issued.
If we looked alone to the act of 1849 as authority for issuing
these bonds, there would be ground for holding that, the provision of the constitution of 1870 relating to municipal subscriptions and bonds would be an insuperable obstacle in the
way of any recovery on the coupons of bonds issued to this company For the act of 1849 in express words forbade the making
of subscriptions or the issuing of bonds except upon a vote of a
majority of qualified voters, taking as a standard the vote cast
at the next preceding general election for county officers.
What number of votes would meet that requirement could be
determined by reference to the official record of the election.
All who took bonds issued under the aQt of 1849 were bound
to take notice of what that record disclosed. The constitution
intended that that record, being accessible to all, should speak
for itself. The number of votes at the last preceding general.
election was not dependent upon any calculation or investigation or weighing of facts by officers charged with the duty ofissuing bonds under that act. If, therefore, the case depended
upon the act of 1849, the judgment of the court below would
be sustained on the authority of -NorthernBank v PorMter
Townshzp, 110 U. S. 608, 616, in which it was said "The
adjudged cases, examined in the light of their special circumstances, show that the facts which a municipal corporation
issuing bonds in aid of the construction of. a railroad, was not
permitted, against a bonafde holder, to question, in face of a
recital in the bonds of their existence, were those connected
with or growing out of the discharge of the ordinary duties of
such of its officers as were invested with authority to execute
them, and which the statute conferring the power made it
their duty to ascertain and determine before the bonds were-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

issued, not merely for themselves, as the ground of their own
action, in issuing the bonds, but, equally, as authentic and
final evidence of their existence, for the information and
action of all others dealing with them in reference to it." In
the same case it was said that, although, the power existing, a
municipality may be estopped by recitals to prove irregularties in its exercise, and when the law prescribes conditions
upon the exercise of the power granted and commits to the
officers of such municipalities the determination of the question whether those conditions have been performed, the
corporation will also be estopped by recitals importing such
performance, nevertheless, "the question of legislative authority in a corporation to issue bonds in aid of a railroad
company cannot be concluded by mere recitals."
But we are of opinion that the court below erred in holdinrg, as in effect it did, that there could be no valid subscription to the stock of the Chester and Tamaroa Railroad
Company except upon a vote of the majority of the qualified
voters of the county, taking as the standard the number of
votes cast at the last preceding general election for county
officers. The plea of the county did not proceed distinctly on
that ground. It only alleged that the bonds issued to this
company were not authorized " by a majority vote of the
electors of said county as required by law." The orders of the
county court, under which the election of February 19, 1870,
was held, show that the election was ordered and held with
reference to the act of April 16, 1869, and that the purpose of
the county was to take the benefits and advantages of that
act -one
of the provisions of which, as we have seen, was
that its benefits, advantages, or provisions shall not apply to
any debt created, unless the subscription or donation, by
which it was created, was first submitted to the qualified
voters of the municipality under the provisions of the laws of
the State, and "a majority of the legal voters bvzng ?n said
county, township, city, or town were in favor of such aid, subscription, or donation." The order of the county court for the
election provided that no subscription of stock should be
made " unless nine hundred and eighty-four legal voters of

CITIZENS' SAVINGS ASSO'N v. PERRY COUNTY.

711

Opinion of the Court.

said county shall have voted for the same at said election."
Two more than that number of votes were cast in favor of the
subscription, and only ninety-one against it. There is no finding to the effect that nine hundred and eighty-four votes was
not a majority of legal voters livng i the county at the time
of the election.
We have seen that the county court, at its special term in
November, 1871, not only certified, upon its record, that all
the conditions prescribed by its order at the January term,
1870, had been complied with by the railroad company, but
authorized the county judge to make a similar certificate
under oath. It even certified, upon its records, that the subscription had been voted for by a majority of the qualified
voters, taking as the standard the vote cast at the preceding
general electionfor county officers. The number of such voters
who, at the time of election, lived in the county was a fact
dehors any official record of votes, and was to be ascertained
by the county court or county judge upon examination. It
did not depend wholly upon an official record, speaking as of
the date of the election. Under any reasonable interpretation
of the act, the county court was invested with authority to
determine whether the majority of voters living in the county
voted in favor of the subscription proposed. If the purchaser
had examined the orders of the county court, he would have
ascertained that those orders several times expressly stated
that all the conditions prescribed by the county and upon
which the people voted had been fully complied with. It
would be rank injustice to permit the county, after the lapse
of so many years, to say that a majority of the voters living
sn the county at the time of election - a matter not determinable by any public record - did not vote for the subscription.
What may be the fact upon this point it is, perhaps, impossible
now to determine. Indeed, as we have said, the court below
did not find that those who voted for the subscription were
not a majority of all the voters living in the county at the
time of the election. It only found that the subscription
failed, by twenty-seven votes, to secure in its favor a majority
of the qualified voters, taking as a standard the votes cast at

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the next preceding general election for county officers. IBut,
as has already been shown, that was not the true test.
This construction of the act of 1869 is in harinony with the
decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois m Town of P"airie
&o. v Lloyr, 97 Illinois, 179, 197, 198, one of the questions in
which case was whether certain municipal bonds were entitled to be registered under the act of 1869. Mr. Justice
Mulkey, speaking for the court, said "Before railroad aid
bonds can be properly registered under the above act, it must
appear that they were issued in pursuance of a vote of a majority of the voters living in the municipality issuing them.
When once registered, the presumption is they were rightfully
registered, and the burden of establishing the contrary rests
upon the party affirming it. It is well settled by the decisions of this court where a majority of those voting at an election of the kind vote in favor of subscription or donation, as
the case mav be, for the purposes of registration it will be presumed that such majority so voting is a majority of all the legal
voters living in the municipality at the time of the election,
and where, in such case, the authorities, acting upon such
presumption, have admitted the bonds to registration, and
the municipality issuing them has, as in this case, treated
them as properly registered by paying previous taxes levied
by the auditor for the liquidation of accruing interest, and
the bonds thus registered have passed into the hands of innocent holders, nothing but the clearest and most satisfactory
proof will authorize a court of equity to enjoin the collection
of a tax levied by the auditor on account of such bonds, on
the alleged ground that the majority voting for such subscription or'donation was not a majority of the legal voters." In
the case now before us it appears that the county paid interest
on the bonds ii suit for about seventeen years, and there is no
proof whatever that the votes cast for subscription, payable
in bonds, did not represent a majority of all qualified voters
living at the time in the county
The case is within numerous decisions of this court sustaining the validity of bonds issued by municipal corporations.
Town of Colonc v. Eaves, 92 U S. 481, Buchanan v. .Litch.

CITIZENS' SAVINGS ASSO'N v. PERRY COUNTY.

713

Opinion of the Court.

feld, 102 U. S. 278, Dzxonr County v Field, 111 U. S. 83, 92,
93, Casro v Zane, 149 U S. 122.
We are of opinion that the court below erred in holding
that the bonds issued to the Chester and Tamaroa Railroad
Company were not binding upon the county of Perry, and in
not giving judgment against the county for the amount of the
coupons of such bonds in suit.
The judgment 2,s reversed, and the cause remanded for a
judgment, upqon the facts found, s conformity with this
oopzon.

