BLACK DIA OND CO. v. EXCELSIOR CO.

611

Syllabus.

and engages in such gaming himself for the express purpose
of appearing as a witness for the government against the proprietor, is not an accomplice, and the case is not subject to the
rule that no conviction should be had on the uncorroborated
testnony of an accomplice, People v Noelke, 94 N. Y 137,
in which the same doctrine was laid down as to the purchaser
of a lottery ticket, who purchased for the purpose of detecting
and punishing the vendor, State v. Jansen, 22 Kansas, 498, m
which the court, citing several authorities, discusses at some
length the question as to the extent to which participation by
a detective affects the liability of a defendant for a crime committed by the two jointly, State v Sthokney, 53 Kansas, 308.
But it is unnecessary to multiply authorities. The law was
actually violated by the defendant, he placed letters in the
post-office which conveyed information as to where obscene
matter could be obtained, and he placed them there with a
view of giving such information to the person who should
actually receive those letters, no matter what his name, and
the fact that the person who wrote under these assumed
names and received his letters was a government detective in
no manner detracts from his guilt.
These are all the questions presented by counsel. We see
no error in the rulings of the trial court, and the judgment is,
Affirmed.
therefore,

BLACK

DIAMOND COAL MINING COMPANY v.
EXCELSIOR COAL COMPANY

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 200.

Argued January 80, 1895. -Decided

March 4,1895.

If there be any invention in the machine patented to Martin R. Roberts by
reissued letters patent No. 7341 for an improvement in coal screens and
chutes, dated October 10, 1876, (upon which the court expresses no
opinion,) it is clear that it was not infringed by the defendant's machine.
The court takes judicial notice of the fact that hoppers with chutes
beneath them are used for many different purposes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was an action at law by the Excelsior Coal Company
to recover damages for the infringement of reissued letters
patent No. 7341, granted October 10, 1876, to Martin R.
Roberts for an "improvement in coal screens and chutes."
Itseems, by the statement of the patentee, that, previous to
this invention, in unloading vessels of coal, the coal had, for
the most part, been hoisted from the hold, over the bulwarks,
and dumped upon the wharf or upon the coal previously
dumped, or, if chutes were used, such chutes were fixed, nor,
so far as the patentee was aware, had a movable chute ever
been known or used by which the coal could be received from
the vessel at any point on the wharf and be screened and
delivered to the cart. The patentee further states in his
specification "My invention consists of a portable apparatus
for receiving coal from the bucket, by which it is hoisted from
the ship, and for screening and delivering it to carts on the
wharf, said apparatus being adapted for ready removal from
place to place when required."
"By this apparatus I am able to save repeated handlings and
consequent expense and the breakage of the coal, and the
apparatus can be changed from one point to another where
the vessel may be placed."
The invention is shown in the following drawing

BLACK DIAMOND CO. v. EXCELSIOR CO.
Statement of the Case.

The invention in question consisted substantially of a strong
frame (A) surmounted by a hopper (BB'), in the form of a
trough, into which the coal is dumped from the hoisting
buckets. The coal falls through the hopper upon an inclined
screen (D), whose meshes, constructed of horizontal wires, are
coarse enough to detain only the larger lumps, which accumulate in a reservoir (0), formed by the screen on one side, and
three inclined surfaces on the other. This reservoir is in fact
a secondary hopper, at the bottom of which is located a chute
(F), and a gate (A) through which the large coal is drawn
off as required into the cart or other vehicle. The smaller coal,
which passes through the meshes of the screen (D), falls -upon
a second inclined screen (I), standing transversely to the upper
one, whose meshes are finer than the other. The coal is again
sifted by this screen into two grades, the coarser of which is
discharged down the incline at one side of the machine, while
the finer falls through the meshes upon the floor or wharf
beneath the frame.
The patentee further added in his specification "The frame

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

(AA) will be mounted upon small wheels, so that it can be
moved from one place to another upon a wharf, in order to be
placed in position to receive the discharging cargo of different
ships, but when moving it from one wharf to another, I employ axles across each end of the frame, upon which strong
wheels are placed, so that the entire machine can be drawn
When it is not desired
along similar to any vehicle.
to screen the article or substance to be unloaded, a false bottom
or metal blank (K), is placed upon the grating or inclined side
(D) of the reservoir, so that the substance will be carried
directly through the chute into the cart or wagon intended
to convey it away"
Plaintiff relied upon an infringement of all the claims of
the patent, which read as follows
"1. A portable combined coal-receiving, screening, and
delivering apparatus arranged to receive the coal or other
cargo from a swinging suspended tub or bucket, by which it
is hoisted from the hold of a ship or other water-craft, and to
screen it automatically and deliver it into carts, said apparatus
being constructed and arranged substantially as described.
"2. The receiving hopper BB', in combination with the
reservoir 0, with its screen or grating side D. chute F, with
its toothed gate h, and one or more independent screens, 1, all
combined and arranged substantially as and for the purpose
above described.
"3. The metal blank or false bottom K, in combination
with the receiving hopper BB', reservoir 0, chute F, and gate
A, substantially as and for the purpose above described.
"4. The combination or the hopper BB', for receiving the
coal from a swinging bucket, the reservoir 0, arranged to receive the coal as it passes from the hopper, with the chute F and
gate I, all constructed to operate substantially as and for the
purpose set forth.
"5. In combination with the elongated hopper, the screen
]D, reservoir 0, and chute F, with its gate A, the combination
being substantially as is herein set forth."
The case was tried before a jury, and resulted in a verdict of
$8830.90 for the plaintiff, upon which a judgment was subse-

BLACK DIAMOND CO. v. EXCELSIOR CO.

615

Opinion of the Court.

quently entered. To review this judgment the Black Diamond Coal Mining Company, defendant therein, sued out
this writ of error.
Mf

X. M. Estee for plaintif in error.

.X" Charles1R. .Miller for defendant in error.
Boone was on his brief.

.M John L.

MR. JusTIcE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
There are thirty-nine assignments of error in this case, but
in the view we have taken, it will only be necessary to consider
the twenty-first, which is "That the court erred, [in refusing]
upon the close of all the testimony in the case, and upon the
request of the defendant's counsel, to instruct the jury to render a verdict in favor of the defendant."
The patent in question is for a portable coal screeming device
which may be moved to any place on the wharf where a vessel
happens to be discharging her cargo. The portability of the
device, however, is not mentioned in any of the claims except
the first, which also includes the screen as an element of the
combination. The coal is hoisted from the hold of the vessel
in buckets or tubs, which are swung over the machine, and the
coal dumped into the hopper, through which it falls upon the
first screen and lodges in the reservoir until required for use,
when the coarser coal slides down upon a chute, having an
outlet or gate, through which it is withdrawn into carts.
The finer coal falls through the first screen upon a second,
where it is again sifted, the coarser sliding down to the side
of the machine, the finer falling through the meshes upon
the wharf, directly beneath the hopper.
The defendant also uses a portable machine consisting
simply of a square hopper, of the form ordinarily used in
grist mills and elevators, through which the coal of all sizes
falls directly upon a chute having an outlet or gate toward,
but some distance from, the bottom, which can be raised or
lowered at pleasure, and through which the coal is withdrawn

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

as required. There is no provision whatever for screening the
coal shown in the drawings of defendant's chutes put in by
one of plaintiff's witnesses, nor in his model introduced as an
exhibit.
As the combinations described in the first, second, and fifth
claims of the Roberts patent include a screen or screens as an
element, it is entirely clear that the defendant's machine, as
above described, does not infringe those claims.
The third claim includes the metal blank or false bottom
(K), in combination with the receiving hopper (B3'), reservoir
(0), chute (F), and gate (h), the fourth claim, the combination
of the hopper, the reservoir, the chute, and the gate, differing
only from the third in the omission of the metal blank or
false bottom.
Now, in determining the question of patentability raised by
the twenty-first assignment of error, we are to take into consideration only the device alleged to be infringed. Granting
for the purposes of this case that the combinations set forth in
the first, second, and fifth claims, of all of which the screens
are an element, constitute a patentable invention, it does not
follow that, if these screens be omitted, as they are by the substitution of the false bottom or metal blank (K) in lieu of the
upper screen, this machine, which is the only one alleged to be
infringed by the defendant, contained a patentable combination. Eliminate the screens by the substitution of the false
bottom, and there is nothing left but an elongated hopper, a
reservoir beneath, a chute, and a gate. Hoppers with chutes
beneath them have been used for a dozen different purposes,
but principally for grain elevators, by means of which vessels
lying alongside a wharf are loaded in a fraction of the time
required by hand or animal power. Indeed, these devices are
so common that we think judicial cognizance may be taken of
them. Brown v Pper,91 U S. 37, Terhune v Pdilhps,99
U S. 592, Eing v Gallun, 109 U S. 99, Phillipsv Detrott,
111 U S. 604.
If there be any invention at all, then, in the combinations
specified in the third and fourth claims, it is in the introduction of the reservoir (0) beneath the hopper, which is really

BLACK DIAMOND CO. v. EXCELSIOR CO.

617

Opinion of the Court.

'an enlargement of the chute, for the purpose of affording a
lodgment for the coal until it is drawn off for use. Great
stress was laid by plaintiff's counsel upon this feature of the
invention, but even conceding it to be patentable, there is
nothing corresponding to it in the defendant's machine. On
the contrary, the coal falls through a square opening in the
bottom of the hopper, directly upon the chute. where it is detained by a gate, which is kept closed until the coal is with,drawn. It is evident that the hopper itself is substantially the
'only reservoir, although a small amount of coal is necessarily
,detamed in the upper part of the chute until the gate is raised.
The chute is nowhere enlarged to form a reservoir.
The fact that the machine is portable undoubtedly adds to
its usefulness, but its portability is only made an element of
the first claim, of which the screens are also an element. So
that if portability were itself a patentable feature, which it is
not, (Bendy v Xners' Iron Works, 19,7 U. S. 370,) there is no
infringement of the first claim, as the defendant does not use
the screens.
There was some evidence tending to show that one of the
machines used by the defendant was provided with a chute,
the bottom of which consisted of a screen, and that it was
used until about the time this suit was brought, when the
screen was covered over with planking and the bottom of the
chute made solid. This machine doubtless approximated
more closely to that described in the plaintiff's patent. No
attempt, however, was made to separate the damages arising
from the use of this device from those arising from the use of
the chute with the solid bottom. The trial appears to have
proceeded largely upon the theory that there was no distinction between the two devices. The court instructed the jury
that the plaintiff's patent was not limited to a device in which
a screen is one of the elements, and that if they found' that
defendant had used a device substantially identical with the
device shown in the patent, but having a solid bottom to
the reservoir, and a chute which extends from the receiving
hopper instead of having a screen bottom, that such device
was also covered by the patent and was an infringement.
I

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

An exception was taken to this portion of the charge, and
the twenty-fourth assignment of error was intended to cover
it. For the reasons given above, we think the court erred in
its interpretation of the patent. If there was any invention
at all disclosed, it was in the use of the reservoir and the
screening device, and without expressing an opinion upon this
point of patentability, it is clear that no infringement was
involved in the use of defendant's hopper and chute, with or
without a solid bottom, if for no other reason, because it
lacked the reservoir of the plaintiff's patent.
There was no question to go to the jury in the case, and the
court should have directed a verdict for the defendant.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the case r.emanded wzatl d'ireetons to set asde
the verdict and grant a new trzal.

JOHNSON v. ATLANTIC, GULF AND WEST INDIA
TRANSIT COMPANY
APPEAL

FROM1 THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No.77.

Argued November 14, 1894.-Decided March 4, 1695.

The road between Fernandina and Cedar Key was the road designated and
pointed out in the various acts of the legislature of Florida referred to
in the opinion, as the one on whose completion and after default the

trustees were authorized to sell.
The Trustees of Internal Improvements in the State of Florida, who took
possession of the railroad and sold it, were legally entitled to act as such
trustees, on the well-settled doctrine that the acts of the several States,

in their individual capacities and of their different departments of government- executive, judicial, and legislative- during the war, so far as
they did not impair or tend to impair the supremacy of the National

authority, or the just rights of citizens under the Constitution, are to be
treated as valid and binding.

The weight of the evidence, apart from the evidential character of the
answers, is clearly to the effect that the railroad, at the time of the sale,
was in a thoroughly dilapidated condition, and, in view of its condition,

and the state of the country, the price realized was not inadequate.

