MATHER v. RILLSTOIN.
Statement of the Case.

and awarding it to the defendant, but this contention was
not sustained.
Conceding that the hills or mountains mentioned in the
decree of confirmation as the northern boundary are really
upon the east and form the eastern boundary, and that where
a grant is described as bounded by hills and mountains the line
runs along the base and not the summit of the hills, it does
not appear that the land in controversy was not within the
boundaries of the grant as originally made and confirmed.
It was held that it might be, and that it was in fact. It follows that the defendant should have received as his preemptive right the whole of the 160 acres clained by him, the
whole amount being within the limits of the grant finally
confirmed to the grantee from whom he purchased, and the
Aj7rmed.
judgment in his favor should be, therefore,

MATHER v. RILLSTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 139. Argued January 22,23, 1S95.-

Decided March 4, 1895.

Occupations which cannot be conducted without necessary danger to life,
body, or limb, should not be prosecuted without taking all reasonable
precautions against such danger afforded by science.
Neglect in such case to provide readily attainable appliances known to science
for the prevention of accidents, is culpable negligence.
If an occupation attended with danger can be prosecuted by proper precaution without fatal results, such precaution must be taken, or liability
for injuries will follow, if injuries happen; and if laborers, engaged in
such occupation, are left by their employers in ignorance of the danger,
and suffer in consequence, the employers are chargeable for their injuries.

THIS was an action to recover damages for injuries sustained

by the plaintiff from an explosion in an iron mine at Ironwood,
in Michioan, alleged to have been caused through the carelessness and negligence of the defendants. It was commenced

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

in the Circuit Court for one of the counties of that State, and
on motion of the defendants was removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Michigan. The declaration sets forth that the defendants were, in
May, 1888, and had been for some time previously, operating
at Bessemer, in the county mentioned, an iron mine, called
the "Colby Mine." It then describes the general nature and
mode of their mining, the use by them of giant powder or
dynamite, of great explosive power, in blasting rock, boulders,
and ore, the manner of its use, and the dangers attending it
from explosion, to which it is liable from great heat or concussion with hard substances in working the mine, and alleges
carelessness and negligence in handling the same, causing the
explosion, destroying the eyes of the plaintiff and grievously
injuring him in different parts of his body, for which injuries
damages are claimed in the present action. A more detailed
account of the operation of the mine is given in the declaration,
and the defendants demanded a trial of the matters set forth,
which, under the laws of Michigan, is equivalent to a plea of
the general issue in the cause.
The plaintiff was a young man of only twenty-four years of
age, and he was not a miner by occupation, nor had he any
experience as a miner. He was employed by the defendants
chiefly in loading tram cars in their service, and knew little
of the different explosives used in the mines. In further
history of the operation of the mine, and of the condition of
the engine-house at the time of the explosion complained of,
and its probable cause, the declaration alleges that the mining
was carried on by sinking shafts, driving drifts, stoping and
excavating in the manner usual in the business of iron mining,
that in performing that work, rock, boulders, iron ore, gravel,
sand, and earth were encountered and removed, that in removing them and other hard substances it became necessary
to blast the same away by employing giant powder or dynamite of great explosive force, that the powder or dynamite
thus used was put up in what were called "sticks," each stick
being circular or nearly so, of a diameter of about one and
one-half inches and about eight inches long, wrapped in a paper

MATHER v. RIILLSTON.
Statement of the Case.

covering, that the sticks were packed in sawdust in wooden
boxes, there being about fifty in each box, that giant powder or
dynamite similar in kind or character to that thus used by the defendants, and also caps similar to those hereinafter mentioned,
had been in general use in the mines of the upper peninsula
of Michigan for twenty years previously; that the powder or
dynamite during cold weather became frozen or hard, and in
that condition would not explode readily, and it was therefore
necessary or at least advisable before using it to soften or
thaw it, which was usually done by means of warm water,
that being the safest means for that purpose, and when thus
thawed or softened it was exceedingly sensitive and liable to
explosion from heat or concussion, a fact well known to the
defendants, that the usual manner in which explosions were
effected in blasting in the mine was by placing at the end of
a stick or piece thereof a cap attached to a fuse, which was
ignited, and then solid rock and ore could be blasted out by
it, that the caps were shaped like ordinary percussion caps
and partly filled with a fulminate, which were then exceedingly sensitive and more powerful and more explosive than
the dynamite, that they were liable to explosion from heat
or by concussion against each other or against any other
resisting substance, and were put up in tin boxes, each containing about one hundred, lightly packed in sawdust, and
were always ready for use, not requiring any thawing before
affixing the fuse and powder.
And the declaration further set forth that on the day of the
explosion, hereafter mentioned, there was situated on the surface of the mine a house about twenty feet long by eighteen
feet wide and one story high, which was primarily intended
for a dry or changing house for the captains and bosses of
the mine, of which there were about thirteen that there were
m the house two drams, used mainly for lowering timber into
the mine, that these drums were circular and about three and
one-half and four feet in diameter, respectively, and were
operated by steam power, the steam being supplied through a
pipe or pipes from a boiler about fifty feet distant, that eighteen inches from one of the drums was a steam heater, consist-

OCTOBER TERI,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

ing of about sixty coils of pipe, receiving steam from the
boiler, intended to heat the house and dry the clothes of the
men who changed their clothing there when they had become
wet from the waters of the mine, that about a foot away
from the heater and against a wall of the house was a shelf,
consisting of a board fastened to the wall, that the drums
and machinery in the house were m constant motion day and
ight, the machinery being kept running even when the drums
were not in use hoisting or lowering in the mine, in ordcr to
keep the exhaust pipe from freezing, that the action of the
machinery produced a constant jar in the building, that there
was standing near the shelf and heater a barrel partly filled
with ordinary lime, and that on the day of the explosion
there was in the engine-house, placed there by the direction
of the defendants, for the purpose of storing and thawing or
softening the same, twelve boxes of giant powder or dynamite, a box and a half lying loose on the shelf, a box about
half filled on the floor and against the heater, and, scattered
loosely on the floor, about twenty sticks or parts of sticks,
some lying against or upon the iron pipe of the heater, a
large quantity of powder lving between the heater and the
nearest drum, occupying nearly the entire space between them,
and about three sticks or parts of sticks resting on the lime,
and a small quantity of the lime scattered on the floor and
upon some of the powder, and on the shelf was a full box of
caps, and in the engine-house and near the heater was a box
partly filled with caps , that during the day of the explosion,
and while the powder and caps were located as stated, the
machinery was in full operation, pounding and jarring, and
the atmosphere of the room in the immediate vicinity of the
powder and caps was heated from the heater and steam pipes
to about 300'Fahrenheit, and the steam pipes were heated to
the same degree, and the room being hot the plaintiff was
obliged to open the door of the house when the ground was
covered with snow to a depth of about a foot lying immediately in front of it and on the walks leading to the house, and
several individuals who came into the house on the day of
the explosion brought more or less snow on their feet and

MATHER v. RILLSTON.
Statement of the Case.

persons, which melted and left water therefrom on and about
the floor of the house and on the lime.
And it was averred that the powder or dynamite, when
thawed out or softened, was very sensitive, and liable to explosion from the jarring of the drums and machinery, and the
constant jarring of the building, and that the powder was
liable to explosion from the heat of the steam heater and
steam pipes and by the slacking of the lime in the lime barrel
or on the powder, that the caps were more sensitive than the
powder or dynamite, and more apt than the powder or dynamite to be exploded by the jarring and by the heat from the
steam pipes and steam heater, all of which particulars were
well known to the defendants.
And the plaintiff further averred that he was hired by the
defendants to run and operate the drums in the house, and
that then the powder and caps were stored and kept in the
powder house of the defendants, and that afterwards they
were stored in the engine-house, and that he was at the time
wholly ignorant that the powder or dynamite was liable to
explosion from the jarring of the machinery, or by becoming
overheated by the steam heater, or by the heat generated by
the lime when slacking, or that the caps were also liable to explosion by such jarring of the machinery, or collision against
any other resisting substance in the box, or by the heat from
the steam pipes or steam heater, that he had never used the
powder or the caps or any other powder or caps similar in
kind or character, and was entirely ignorant of their very sensitive character, and that when they were placed in the house
he was not, nor was he at any time thereafter and before the
accident, informed by the defendants, or any other person, of
their sensitive and dangerous character, or that they were
liable to be exploded, and that he continued to work in the
house entirely ignorant of the danger to which he was thereby
subjected.
And the plaintiff further averred that on the day of the
explosion, while he was engaged about his business in the
house, and while the machinery and the steam heater and
steam pipes were in operation, and while the powder and caps

OCTOBER TERAI, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

and all the other articles and things were situated in the house
as stated, and while he was conducting himself in a careful
and prudent manner and not touching, handling, or in any
manner whatsoever meddling or interfering with the powder
and caps or either thereof, and when he was about two feet
distant therefrom, a part of the powder and of the caps,
caused by being ,arred as mentioned by the machinery and
overheated by the steam and steam _pipes and by the lime, suddenly, and without any warning whatsoever, exploded with
great force and violence, throwing pieces of tin and other
hard substances into his eyes and into his body, and throwing
him out through the open door about fifty feet distant therefrom, and that he was then and thereby grievously bruised,
maimed, and injured, and his eyes were permanently injured
and destroyed, and he thereby became totally and permanently blind, and his body in other respects was maimed, mutilated, and injured.
And the plaintiff further averred that the explosion and the
blinding and maiming and injury of himself were caused
through the carelessness and negligence of the defendants in
storing the powder and caps i the house without informing
htm of the increased rzsk and danger of his Pemanzng in
employment therein, in thawing and softening the powder bv
means of steam heat, instead of hot water, in thawing and
storing the powder and caps in the house where the machinery
was in operation, and where the steam heater and steam pipes
were situated, and the lime was kept and used, as stated, and
in placing, or permitting to be placed, the powder and the
caps near or around the steam heater, as stated, for all of
which the plaintiff claimed damages.
The substantial facts thus stated in the first count are set
forth with more or less detail in the other counts of the complaint, of which there are several, and the allegations of negligence and carelessness on the part of the defendants are
repeated, from which the explosion is alleged to have followed,
and the dreadful injuries stated to have been caused to the
plaintiff, and by which he was also deprived of all means of
earning a livelihood. The jury found for the plaintiff and

MATHER v. RILLSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

assessed his damages in ten thousand dollars, upon which verdict judgment was entered in his favor, and the defendants
brought the case to this court by writ of error.
Mr A. C. -Dush and -Ur George F Edmunds for plaintiff
in error. .MUr James Bt. Hoyt and .L), George ilayden were
on Mr. Dustin's brief.
-Ur _F 0 GClark, with whom was MAL'r 1?.
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

FIELD,

. Flanntgan

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court
The testimony produced on the trial by the plaintiff and the
defendants corroborated in all essential -particulars the facts
set forth in the declaration. It is not, however, as definite in
its statement of the extent of the heat of the room on the day
of the explosion. The declaration puts it at a very high degree
Fahrenheit, and the plaintiff, who was examined on the subject, while he does not designate it by any thermometrical
measurement, states that the heat from the heater and boiler
was more than he could stand, and that the room was hotter
than anything he had ever known before. ile also testified
that the machinery in the engine-house was in operation all
the time in order to keep the steam in the pipes and prevent
them from freezing on the outside, and that the building was
always shaking, so much so that a man's hat would not stay
hung up when the machinery was in motion. He also added
that he was not a miner and did not know the first part of
mining, that he had never handled any powder in blasting,
or handled or worked with the caps used, that he did not
know what dynamite or giant powder was made of, and never
had any knowledge or experience in the use or handling of
explosives, and he never was informed by the defendants or
any one else of the danger he incurred in handling the powder
and caps, or the danger of explosion of either from the great
heat in the engine-house, or from the concussion of the caps
caused by its constant jarring.
It is clear from the whole evidence in the case, that there

OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

was constant danger of explosion from the great heat produced in the operation of the mine and from the concussion of
the caps by collision between themselves and with other hard
substances in the engine-house and the powder scattered on
the floor. The heat and concussion were a continuing danger
to the safety of the persons employed in the mine, and of the
existence of that danger the defendants were fully aware.
:Rillston, the plaintiff, who was sworn as a witness in the
case, testified that at the time of the explosion there was in
the engine-house a coil of pipe, five barrels of oil, fourteen
boxes of powder, a box and a half on the shelf, about half a
box on the floor, a barrel of lime, several sticks in the lime,
two boxes of caps, nine rings of fuse, and that there was
powder on the floor thrown around in all directions.
Mr. Sellwood, the general manager of the mine for the
defendants, testified that the caps and powder were put in the
engine-house by his orders, and admits that the usual place
previously for keeping them was at the powder magazine.
Notwithstanding the continuing danger of explosion, both
from the heat in the engine-house and its constant jarring, and
the confused and disorderly position in which the powder and
caps were placed in the engine-house, it does not appear that
there was any effort made by the defendants, or others acting
for them, to lessen either the heat or the jarring.
The court instructed the jury that it was a question for
them whether there was negligence in the conduct of the
defendants in reference to the use of the exploding caps,
that is, in putting them in the engine-house and in failing
to give the plaintiff due warning of their dangerous charac
ter, and the jury found against the defendants on the question
thus presented to them.
All occupations producing articles or works of necessity,
utility, or convenience may undoubtedly be carried on, and
competent persons, familiar with the business and having
sufficient skill therein, may properly be employed upon them,
but in such cases where the occupation is attended with danger to life, body, or limb it is incumbent on the promoters
thereof and the employers of others thereon to take all reason-

MATHER v. RILLSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

able and needed precautions to secure safety to the persons
engaged in their prosecution, and for any negligence in this
respect, from which injury follows to the persons engaged, the
promoters or the employers may be held responsible and
mulcted to the extent of the injury inflicted. The explosive
nature of the materials used in this case, and the constant
danger of their explosion from heat or collision, as already
explained, was well known to the employers, and was a
continuing admonition to them to take every precaution to
guard against explosions. Occupations, however important,
which cannot be conducted without necessary danger to life,
body, or limb should not be prosecuted at all without all reasonable precautions against.such dangers afforded by science. The
necessary danger attending them should operate as a prohibition to their pursuit without such safeguards. Indeed, we
think it may be laid down as a legal principle that in all
occupations which are attended with great and unusual danger
there must be used all appliances readily attainable known
to science for the prevention of accidents, and that the neglect to provide such readily attainable appliances will be
regarded as proof of culpable negligence. If an occupation
attended with danger can be prosecuted by proper precautions without fatal results, such precautions must be taken
by the promoters of the pursuit or employers of laborers
thereon. Liability for injuries following a disregard of such
precautions will otherwise be incurred and this fact should
not be lost sight of. So, too, if persons engaged in dangerous
occupations are not informed of the accompanying dangers
by the promoters thereof, or by the employers of laborers
thereon, and such laborers remain in ignorance of the dangers and suffer in consequence, the employers will also be
chargeable for the injuries sustained. Both of these positions
should be borne constantly in mind by those who engage
laborers or agents in dangerous occupations, and by the
laborers themselves as reminders oE the duty owing to them.
These two conditions of liability of parties employing laborers
in hazardous occupations are of the highest importance, and
should be in all cases strictly enforced.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

Further than this, it isplain from what has already been
stated that the plaintiff knew nothing of the special dangers
attending his work, or that he was at all informed by the
defendants on the subject. His testimony is positive on this
point, and is not contradicted by any one. With that fact
shown there was no ground for any charge of contributory
negligence on his part, and with the defendants' negligence
established, as stated, there could have been no serious objection to the damages awarded to the plaintiff for the
dreadful injuries sustained. The sum recovered was a moderate compensation to be awarded to h un.
J'udgment ajfirmed.

CUNNINGHAM v. MACON & BRUNSWICK RAILIROAD COMPANY
APPEAL FROMf THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 91.

Argued November 22, 23, 1894.-Decided March 4, iS95.

In 18G the legislature of Georgia enacted a law loaning the credit of the
State to a railroad company by endorsing its bonds to the amount of
$10,000 per mile, and further providing that the endorsement should
operate as a mortgage on all the property of the company. These bonds
were issued to the amount of $1,950,000, endorsed and sold. In 1868 the
new constitution of the State then adopted provided that the State
should not loan its credit to any company without a provision that the
whole property of the company should be bound to the State as security
prior to any other indebtedness. In 1870 the legislature passed an act
"to amend" the act of 1866, authorizing the governor to endorse the
company's bonds to a further extent of $3000 per mile " in addition to
$10,000 as recited in the act of which this is amendatory." Tme new
bonds were issued, varying in form from the former bonds, were endorsed
by the State, and were sold. In 1873 the company defaulted in the payment of the bonds of 1866, and the governor took possession of the property. The legislature then by joint resolution declared the bonds of 1866
to be valid, and those of 1870 to be unconstitutional. In 1875 the gov
ernor ordered the property sold under the provisions of the act of 1866,
and the sale took place that year, the State being the purchaser at

