OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

FOX v. TIAARSTICK.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 577. Submitted January T, 1895.-Decided March 4, 1895.

In an action upon a contract to sell shares of stock to the plaintiff, the
defendant set up allegations of fraud. A jury was waived and the court
found separately and specifically upon all the allegations respecting the
contract, and that the contract set up in the complaint was sustained by
the evidence. No error was assigned or exceptions taken. Held,
(1) That this court cannot review those findings
(2) That they are sufficient to sustain the judgment.

THIS was an action brought in the District Court of the
Third Judicial District of Utah by Henry C. Haarstick
against Moylan C. Fox, executor of Sarah M. McKibben,
deceased, to recover damages for the refusal of the defendant
to assign and transfer to the plaintiff fourteen hundred and
fourteen shares of the capital.stock of a corporation known as
the St. Louis and Mississippi Valley Transportation Company,
as called for by a contract subsisting between the plaintiff and
Mrs. McKibben during the lifetime of the latter.
At the trial a jury was waived and the case was tried by
the court. The trial judge made certain findings of facts and
conclusions of law as follows
"1. That the defendant, Moylan C. Fox, is the executor,
duly qualified and acting, of the last will and testament of
Sarah M. iMcKibben, deceased.
"2. That by written correspondence between Sarah McKibben and the plaintiff, dated February 25, 1890, and March 1,
1890, the said Sarah McKibben contracted to sell and deliver to
the plaintiff, within forty days after said date, 1414 shares of
the capital stock of the St. Louis and Mississippi Valley Transportation Company, a corporation organized under the laws
of the State of Missouri, for the sum of ninety-two thousand
five hundred dollars.
"3. That before the time of the completion of said contract

FOX v. HAARSTICK.
Statement of the Case.

arrived, to wit, on the 5th day of March, 1890, the said Sarah
M. McKibben died, and the said executor then refused, and
ever since has refused and declined to deliver said stock and
to carry out and fulfil the contract.
"14. That the plaintiff has been ready and willing to pay
the said sum of ninety-two thousand five hundred dollars for
the said stock upon the delivery thereof, but the said executor
still refuses and declines to accept the same.
"5. That the said stock, at the time when the same should
have been delivered, to wit, on or about the 10th day of
April, 1890, was of the value of one hundred and four thousand five hundred dollars, and that the plaintiff was damaged,
by reason of the defendant's failure to deliver the said stock
and fulfil the said
, in the sum of twelve thousand dollars, with interest thereon at the rate of eight per cent per
annum, from the 10th day of April, 1890, amounting at this
date to one thousand four hundred and eighty-five dollars,
and making the plaintiff's damage in all thirteen thousand
four hundred and eighty-five dollars.
"6. That on the 30th day of October, 1890, the plaintiff
presented a claim in writing, pursuant to the statute in such
case made and provided, demanding the payment of the sum
of thirty-six thousand one hundred and seventy-four dollars
damages to Moylan 0. Fox, executor of said Sarah M. McKibben, deceased, and that on said day the said executor rejected
said claim.
"As conclusions of law from the foregoing facts, the court
now hereby finds and decides" That the plaintiff is entitled to have and recover of and
from the defendant the sum of thirteen thousand four hundred and eighty-five dollars, with interest thereon from this
date until paid, at the rate of eight per cent per annum, and
costs of suit, and judgment is hereby ordered to be entered
accordingly"
A motion for a new trial was made and overruled, judgment was entered, and an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Utah, from whose judgment affirming that of the court below an appeal was taken to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

MAr C. W Bennett, XE J A. .Marhall,and -Mr William
_X. Bradley for appellant.
fflr Gven Campbell, Lr F S. Rwhards, and .Mr Arthwr
Brown for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

SHniAs, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The appellant's contentions are that the trial court erred in
failing to make an express finding as to certain defences set
up in the defendant's answer, which are alleged to have constituted new matter in avoidance of the contract declared on
by the plaintiff, and to have been sustained by evidence, and
that the Supreme Court of the Territory erred in approving
that action of the trial court by affirming its judgment.
The defensive matter adverted to was thus set forth in the
defendant's answer
"The defendant alleges that, prior to the date of the alleged contract mentioned in the complaint, the plaintiff agreed
with the said Sarah M. McKibben to act as her agent in the
matter of the sale and disposal of said shares of said stock for
her, and represented to her by writing that the said company
had lately sustained large losses, and that the shares aforesaid
had just depreciated 40 per cent in value, and were not worth
the value she placed on them, and undertook to sell and dispose of them for her for $ 92,500, that, in fact, said company
was then in extra prosperous condition and had lately acquired
a large cash reserve in its treasury, and was about to declare
and pay a large dividend on said shares of stock, and that the
shares had an increased value by reason of that fact and had
not depreciated in value, that plaintiff was then and is now
president of said company and knew the foregoing facts, and
said deceased did not know said facts, and, so knowing, the
plaintiff wilfully and fraudulently concealed said facts from
the deceased and induced the deceased to believe that she was
about to make an advantageous sale, and any and all action
taken and communication had by deceased with plaintiff was

FOX v. HAARSTICK.
Opimon of the Court.

induced by and based upon that belief on her part, brought to
her mind as aforesaid."
Claiming that this paragraph of his answer presented a distinct, affirmative defence, the appellant contends that, without
a formal replication thereto, it was put in issue by virtue of an
enactment by the legislature of Utah, which provides that
"every material allegation of the complaint not controverted
by the answer must, for the purposes of the action, be taken
as true, the statement of any new matter in the answer, in
avoidance or constituting a defence or counterclaim, must, on
the trial, be deemed controverted by the opposite party"
See. 3248, Compiled Laws of Utah, vol. 2, p. 251. With a
material issue thus presented, the appellant claims that the
trial court erred doubly in not making a finding on the same,
and in not finding that it was sustained by the evidence.
In failing to find at all upon a material issue raised by the
pleadings, it issaid that the court disregarded certain provisions of the laws of Utah, which are in the following terms
"Sec. 3379. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court,
its decision must be given in writing and filed with the clerk
within thirty days after the cause is submitted for decision."
"Sec. 3380. In giving the decision, the facts found and the
conclusions of law must be separately stated. Judgment upon
the decision must be entered accordingly" "See. 3381.
Findings of fact may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact, 1, by failing to appear at the trial, 2, by consent
in writing filed with the clerk, or 3, by oral consent in open
court, entered in the minutes." As it appears in the present
record that the defendant did not fail to appear, nor consent
in writing, nor by oral consent in court to waive a finding of
the issue in question, and as the court made written findings
on other issues, it is claimed that the error of the court in failing to make a finding is thus made manifest.
On the part of the appellee it is claimed that the issue presented in the paragraph of the answer heretofore cited was
not a material one, containing new matter in avoidance of the
plaintiff's claim, but was essentially a mere traverse, equivalent to the general issue, that, whether material or not, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

was not sustained by any substantive evidence, and that therefore there was no error in the action of the trial court, whose
findings substantially covered all the real issues in the cause.
The appellee cites as pertinent a decision of the Supreme
Court of California, from the code of which State the laws of
Utah in question in this case are said to have been taken
"When upon the trial of a cause the court renders its decision without making findings upon all the material issues
presented by the pleadings, it is held that such decision can
In such
be reviewed upon a motion for a new trial.
been
having
decision,
and
the
a
mistrial,
a case there has been
rendered before the case has been fully tried, is considered to
have been a decision ' against law' It will be observed, however, that this rule is only applicable in a case where the
issues upon which there is no finding are 'material'-that
is, where a finding upon which issues would have the effect to
countervail or destroy the effect of the other findings. If a
finding upon such issues would not have this effect the issues
cannot be regarded as material, and the failure to make a
If the
finding thereon would not be prejudicial.
findings which are made are of such a character as to dispose
of issues which are sufficient to uphold the judgment, it is
not a mistrial or against law to fail or to omit to make findings upon other issues which, if made, would not invalidate
the judgment. If the issue presented by the answer is such
that a finding upon it in favor of the defendant would not
defeat the plaintiff's right of action, a failure to make such
If the complaint, as in the
finding is immaterial.
present instance, sets forth two or more grounds for relief,
either of which is sufficient to support a judgment in favor of
the plaintiff, a finding upon one of such issues is sufficient,
and a failure to find upon the other does not constitute a mistrial or render the decision against law" Brson v .B9,won,
90 California, 323, 329.
The record discloses the affirmative findings of the trial
court, which, of themselves, fully warrant the conclusion of
law based upon them, that the plaintiff was entitled to recover. No assignments of error on exceptions taken ask or

FOX v. HAARSTICK.
Opinion of the Court.

empower us to review those findings. If, then, those findings
-are to be accepted as justified by the evidence, it is difficult to
see how the defendant was injured by the failure of the court
to pass, in express terms, on those averments of the answer
now urged. If, indeed, it be indisputably true, as so found,
that by written correspondence between the parties Mrs.
McKibben agreed to sell and the plaintiff to buy a stated
number of shares of stock at a fixed price, and that the plaintiff, in due tne and manner, tendered the purchase money
and demanded a delivery of the stock, and that the defendant,
as executor of Mrs. McKibben, declined to receive the purchase
money and to deliver the stock, those allegations of the answer which are now relied upon must be deemed to have
been thereby negatived. In other words, the plaintiff's
affirmative case is wholly inconsistent with the truth of the
defendant's case, and the conclusive establishment of the truth
of the former is necessarily a complete negative of the case
asserted by the defendant.
This was the conclusion reached by the Supreme Court of
the Territory, which disposed of the question in the following
terms "It is contended that the court erred in failing to find
facts on the question of fraud set up in the answer. The
court found separatively and specifically that the contract set
up in the complaint was sustained by the evidence. This
finding necessarily negatives any fraud as alleged, and is sufficient to sustain the judgment."
It is true that this ruling of the Supreme Court of the
Territory does not, even in a question of practice arising under
the local law, preclude this court from reviewing it, as would
a decision of a state Supreme Court in similar circumstances;
but unless a manifest error be disclosed, we should not feel
disposed to disturb a decision of the Supreme Court of a
Territory construing a local statute. So far from discovering
manifest error in that ruling, we concur with the Supreme
Court of the Territory in their disposition of the question.
The opimon of the Supreme Court of the Territory, disclosed
in the record, further shows that that court considered at length
the evidence in the entire case, as well that sustaining the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

plaintiff's claim as that relied on by the defendant as showing
fraud, and concurred in and affirmed the findings and judgment of the trial court. But we do not regard any aspect of
the case as open for our consideration except the errors assigned to the action of the Supreme Court of the Territory in
ruling that the findings of the trial court sufficiently embraced
the issues presented by the pleadings.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah is hereby

Afflirmed.
DAVIS v. WAKELEE.
APPEAL FRO'M THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 181. Argued January 25, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

Au appeal authorized by the appellant personally, and in good faith entered
in this court in the name of his attorney and counsel below, will not be
dismissed simply because that counsel had not authorized such entry,
when the appellant, on learning of the mistake, appears by other counsel and prosecutes it in good faith.
The omission to describe in an appeal bond the term at which the judgment appealed from was rendered is an error which may be cured by
furnishing new security.
D. was adjudicated a bankrupt in 1869 in California. W then held six
promissory notes executed by him which were proved in bankruptcy
against D. D. then removed to New York. After that W., by leave of
court, reduced his claim to judgment in a state court of California,
the only notice to D. being by publication, and D. never appearing. In
1875 D. petitioned for his discharge. W opposed it. D. moved to dismiss the objection on the ground that the claim of W had been absorbed
in a judgment obtained after the commencement of the proceedings in
bankruptcy, which would remain in force. The court sustained the
motion, cancelled the proof of the debt and dismissed the specification
of opposition. W then filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York to enforce
an estoppel, and to enjoin D. from asserting in defence of any suit which
might be brought upon the judgment that the debt upon which it was
obtained was not merged in it, and from denying its validity as a debt
against D. unaffected by the discharge. Held,
(1) That the judgment was undoubtedly void for want of jurisdiction;

