OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

reversal- of the decree at the instance of appellants, and in
spite of the position they occupied to the contrary It is suggested that the principles in relation to separable controversies
were not so well understood in 1887 as at this date, and except
for that appellants would not have attempted to remove the
cause, but the petition, though imperfect, was sufficient to
accomplish the result of forcing appellee into the Circuit
Court, and we find ourselves at liberty to decline to deprive
him of his decree on the ground that the cause was not rightfully transferred.
Decree afirmed.

PALMER v. CORNING.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
No. 13t.Argued January 8, 9, 1895.-Decided March 4,1895.

The improvement in sewer gratings patented to Henry W Clapp by letters
patent No. 134,978, dated January 21, 1873, involved no invention.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M& Edwsn -H.Risley for appellant.
-Hr George T 8pencer for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The sole question in this case is whether the appliance to
which the plaintiff in error claims the rights of a patentee under the grant of letters patent No. 134,978, bearing
date January 21, 1873, issued to his assignor, involves invention, or is simply a manifestation of mechanical skill.
There is no doubt that in this, as in all similar cases, the
letters patent are prms facte evidence that the device was
patentable. Still, we are always required, with this presumption in mind, to examine the question of invention vel non upon
its merits in each particular case. In the present instance the
letters patent state the device to be an "improvement in
gratings for sewer inlets," and describe it as follows

PALMER v. CORNING.
Opinion of the Court.

"My improvement consists in the employment of a device
to elevate the grating above the opening which it covers a
short distance, so that it will not become obstructed by small
sticks, straws, leaves, and other small rubbish not large
enough to clog the sewer or drain with which it may be connected, and at the same time will stop all matter large
enough to do injury in said drain.
"My improvement may be attached to any form of grating,
round or square, and consists of a cast-iron ring made to fit
the collar which surrounds the opening to hold the grate m
place, marked a in the drawing, in which I set the cast or
wrought-iron pins, marked b in the drawing, to which the
grating is firmly attached, and by means of which the grating
may be elevated one to two inches, more or less, as may be
desirable. These pins may be of wrought iron fitted to holes
drilled in the grate and ring, or the grate, ring, and pins for
elevating the grate may be cast all in one piece, or wroughtiron pins may be cast into the ring and grate when they are
cast.
"The whole grating and ring may be taken out as desired,
as easily as if they were not furnished with the supporting
ring, and my improvement may be used with a wood or
iron collar, as may be desired.
"1y thus elevating the grate a space is left, through which
leaves, straws, small sticks will pass freely, and the grate will
be kept clear for the passage of water.
"I claim "The grating for sewer openings herein described, consisting of the ring a, supporting-pins b, and elevated grating,
substantially as specified."
It thus appears that the whole subject-matter which is
covered consists of a grate elevated above the top of the
catch-basin of a sewer and resting on a ring or support placed
below the top of' the basin by means of pins which thus lift
up the grating, between which pins are left spaces allowing
the water to pass through, under the grating, the result of so
elevating the grate being, it is claimed, to keep the openings
on the grating proper and the openings below free from the

OCTOBER TERN:, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

debris which would otherwise accumulate thereon or against
the same. There is no pretence that the claim covers a grate
of any particular style of manufacture or any particular
shape, 'in fact, it is expressly stated that the grate may be
made either round or square, and that the pins may be of
wrought iron, fitted to holes drilled in the grate or ring, or
the grate, rings and pins for elevating the grate may be cast
all in one piece, or wrought-iron pins may be cast into the
ring and grate when they are cast. Viewed separately, the
elements of this device certainly involve no invention. A
grate over a sewer is one of the simplest of mechanical
devices. The mere use of a ring of iron on which to rest
such a grating is obviously nothing more than a mechanical arrangement, which involves no element of invention,
and the same is the case with the use of pins or legs for the
purpose of holding up a sewer grate. And it is equally clear
that the leaving of open spaces between the pins and the
elevating of the grate above the ring, thereby giving greater
facility for the flow of water, is invention in no sense of the
word. But although no one of these elements of the contrivance involves invention, it is insisted that, taken all together, they constitute a "combination," and that it is this
combination which is covered by the letters patent. If a
combination of unpatentable elements, as such, produces new
and useful results, there can be no doubt that the combination
is patentable. But there are certain conditions constituting
the essential nature of a combination under the patent law,
which we think are not met in this case. The law upon
this subject this court has often stated
"It must be conceded that a new combination, if it produces new and useful results, is patentable, though all the constituents of the combination were well known and in common
use before the combination was made. But the results must
be a product of the combination, and not a mere aggregate of
several results, each the complete product of one of the combined elements. Combined results are not necessarily a novel
result, nor are they an old result obtained in a new and improved manner. Merely bringing old devices into juxtapo-

PALMER v. CORNING.
Opinion of the Court.

sition, and there allowing each to work out its own effect
without the production of something novel, is not invention.
No one by bringing together several old devices without
producing a new and useful result, the joint product- of the
elements of the combination and something more than an
aggregate of old results, can acquire a right to prevent others
from using the same devices, either singly or in other combinations, or, even if a new and useful result is obtained, can
prevent others from using some of the devices, omitting
others, in combination." Hailes v Fan Wormer, 20 Wall.
353, 368.
"The combination to be patentable must produce a different force or effect, or result in the combined forces or processes, from that given by their separate parts. There must
be a new result produced by their union, if not so, it is only
an aggregation of separate elements." Beckendorfer v. Faber,
92 U. S. 347, 357.
"In a patentable combination of old elements, all the constituents must so enter into it as that each qualifies every
other, to draw an illustration from another branch of the
law, they must be joint tenants of the domain of the invention, seized each of every part, _er my et per tout, and not
mere tenants in common, with separate interests and estates.
It must form either a new machine of a distinct character and
function, or produce a result due to the joint and co-operating
action of all the elements, and which is not the mere adding
together of separate contributions. Otherwise it is only a
mechanical juxtaposition, and not a vital union." Pckerng
v XcCullough, 104: U. S. 310, 318.
"It is true that such a fireplace heater, by reason of the fuel
magazine, was a better heater than before, just as the outstanding stove with its similar fuel magazine was a better
heater than a similar stove without such a fuel magazine.
But the improvement in the fireplace heater was the result
merely of the single change produced by the introduction of
the fuel magazine, but one element in the combination. The
new and improved result in the utility of a fireplace heater
cannot be said to be due to anything in the combination of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the elements which compose it, in any other sense than that
it arises from bringing together old and well-known separate
elements, which, when thus brought together, operate separately, each in its own old way There is no specific quality
of the result which cannot be definitely assigned to the independent action of a single element. There is, therefore, no.
patentable novelty in the aggregation of the several elements,
considered in itself." Thatcher Heatng Co. v Burt-is, 121
U S. 286, 294.
Tested by these principles, we think it evident that there is.
no invention in the device now before us. It is claimed that
its effect is to prevent the grate from being clogged. But
this effect only comes from raising the grate and leaving
openings beneath it, it is an effect produced solely by the
openings beneath, and is not in any way due to the presence
of the grate above. Thus, even if the appliance operates as
claimed, its operation is the result of no combined action, but
is due entirely to the openings below If there were no grate
above the pins but a solid piece of metal or other substance,
so that no water could enter the sewer except through the
openings left between the pins, the tendency of the flow of
the water through those openings would not be affected, and
the only result would be to diminish the flow of water into the
sewer in a given time by the quantity which would enter
above if the place were grated. It seems manifest, indeed,
that the only practical operation of this device is to increase
the utility of the sewer by elevating the grate, and so rendering it easier for the water to enter. An attempt was made
to show by the testimony of a person who had observed the
operation of one of these grates made in a circular form, that
its use resulted in giving a circular motion to the water, and
that the debris was carried to the periphery of the circulating
fluid and thereby prevented from accumulating on the top of
the grate. But if this be true, it is manifestly a result of
leaving the open spaces between the pins and having the
grate circular in form. Conceding that the water just before
passing through openings thus arranged would acquire something of a circular motion, this would not be by any means.

MARICOPA & PHCENIX RAILROAD v. ARIZONA.

347

Statement of the Case.

the result of any combination between the opening below
and the grate above. And, moreover, it cannot be contended
that the arrangement of a circular grate supported on pins
with the open spaces between them constitutes the invention,
for it is expressly stated that the grates may be of any form,
round or square.
The judgment below, holding that no invention is involved
in this arrangement, is, we think, obviously correct, and it is,
therefore,
-Affirmed.

MARICOPA AND PH(ENIX RAILROAD COMPANY
v. ARIZONA TERRITORY
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 195. Submitted January 28, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1595.

When Congress grants to a railway company organized under the laws of
a Territory a right of way over an Indian reservation within the Terntory, and the road is constructed entirely within the Territory, that part
of it within the reservation is subject to taxation by the territorial
government.
The question whether it is so subject to taxation is one within the jurisdiction of this court, when properly brought here, irrespective of the
amount involved.

AFTER the organization of the Territory of Arizona certain
land situated within its geographical limits was set apart as
an Indian reservation for the use of the Pima and Maricopa
Indians. Act of February 28, 1859, c. 66, ยง 3, 11 Stat. 401.
The tract is known as the "Gila River Reservation." The
Maricopa and Phoenix Railroad Company owns and operates
within the Territory of Arizona 21.16 miles of railroad track,
all of which lie within the geographical outlines of the Territory, as named in its organic act, but 6.24: miles are within
the reservation just mentioned. This portion was constructed
under the authority of the. act of Congress of January 17,

