ROUSE v. LETCHER.
Statement of the Case.

on the alienage of plaintiff in error, and that fact was not
made affirmatively to appear, the judgment must be reversed
at the costs of plaintiff in error, and the cause be remanded
to the Circuit Court with leave to apply for amendment and
for further proceedings. Bsnghamr v. Cabot, 3 Dall. 382,
.Mossman v Higgnson, 4 Dall. 12, Capron v 'Fan _Voorden,
2 Oranch, 125, Jackson v Twentymzn, 2 Pet. 136, Conolly v
Taylor, 2 Pet. 556, Brown v Keene, 8 Pet. 115, Robertson v.
Cease, 97 U. S. 646, Bdrs v Preston, 111 U S. 252, 263,
Denny v Pzronz, 141 U S. 121, Borne v George E. Zamamond Co., 155 U S. 393.
Judgment reversed.

ROUSE v. LETCEER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 5S2. Submitted December 17, 1894. -Decided

January 21, 1895.

A judgment in a Circuit Court of Appeals upon the claim of an intervenor,
set up in a Circuit Court against the receiver of a railroad appointed by
that court in a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon the road, is a
final judgment which cannot be reviewed in this court.

M
oiON
to dismiss. The Mercantile Trust Company, a corporation of New York, filed its bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas, June 8, 1888, against
the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, a corporation of Kansas, for the foreclosure of certain mortgages and
deeds of trust, and George A. Eddy and H. C. Cross were
thereupon appointed receivers of the company, and took
charge of its property, which consisted, among other things,
of a line of railroad runmng from Hannibal, Missouri, to Parsons, Kansas, and to Fort Worth, Texas. Ancillary proceedings were also had in the Circuit Courts of the United States
through whose jurisdiction the railway ran. On October 11,
1890, Annie Letcher filed her intervening petition in that
cause in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Division of the Eastern District of Missouri, at Hannibal

claiming damages on account of the death of her husband,
Harvey Letcher, occasioned, as she averred, by the negligence
of the receivers, their agents, servants and employes. The
receivers having filed their answer thereto, the matter was
referred by the court to a master in chancery to report conclusions thereon. A hearing was had and a report made by
the master, May 18, 1891, recommending a judgment for$5000 in favor of the intervenor. Exceptions were filed and
overruled, and the Circuit Court at Hannibal, on January 5,
1892, allowed the claim of the intervenor and rendered judgment for $5000 against the receivers, and ordered it "paid unto
the intervenor herein, or her solicitor of record, by George A.
Eddy and Harrison C. Cross, the receivers in this cause, out.
of any money or funds in their hands applicable to that purpose, or that the same be paid by the persons or corporations
who have succeeded to the possession of the property lately in
the custody of said receivers, who by the terms of the final decree, or previous orders in this cause, are chargeable with the
payment of such claims." An appeal from this decree was
taken by the receivers to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit and the decree affirmed, July 10, 1893. Eddy
v Ietcher, 12 U. S. App. 506, S. C. 57 Fed. Rep. 115. Thereupon an appeal was prayed and allowed to this court, which
the intervenor moved to dismiss. The deaths of Eddy and
Cross having been suggested, the appearance of Henry C.
Rouse, appointed receiver in their place, was entered.
MAr James P Wood for the motion.
_ir James Hagerman and _3fr George P
opposing.
MR. CBIEF JusTIoE FULLER,

B. Jackson

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By section six of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals are
made final "in all cases in which the jurisdiction is dependent

ROUSE v. LETCOER.
Opinion of the Court.

entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit or controversy
being aliens and citizens of the United States or citizens of
different States." And it is also provided that "in all cases
not herembefore, in this section, made final there shall be of
right an appeal or writ of error or review of the case by the
Supreme Court of the United States where the matter in controversy shall exceed one thousand dollars." 26 Stat. 826, 828.
If the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit was final under the sixth section, then this appeal must
be dismissed, and in order to maintain that the decision was
not final it must appear that the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court was not dependent entirely upon the opposite parties
being citizens of different States. The jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court was invoked by the filing of the bill, upon which
it appeared that the suit was one of which cognizance could
properly be taken on the ground of diverse citizenship, and it
did not appear therefrom that jurisdiction was rested or could
be asserted on any other ground. But it is insisted that
appellee's cause of action arose long after the Circuit Court
had taken jurisdiction and the receivers had been appointed,
and that her suit by intervention was one arising under the
Constitution and laws of the United States because the cause
of action was asserted against the receivers as officers of the
United States court and arose as alleged by reason of negligence on their part m the course of their receivership. It is
plain, however, that the intervention was entertained as belonging to that class of proceedings recognized as allowable
where property sought to be charged is m austodi legms, and
not on any other ground. Although appellee's claim was
purely a legal one, she did not bring an action at law, but was
permitted to intervene by petition as in the assertion of a
claim upon the property or fund being administered by the
court. It is well settled that where property is in the actual
possession of a court, this draws to it the right to decide
upon conflicting claims to its ultimate possession and control,
.Minnesota Co. v -St. Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609, .Morgan's Co. v.
Texas Central Railway, 137 U. S. 171, 201, and that where.
assets are in the course of administration, all persons entitled,
VOL. CL I-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

to participate may come in, under the jurisdiction acquired
between the original parties, by ancillary or supplemental
proceedings, even though jurisdiction would be lacking if
such proceedings had been originally and independently prosecuted. Stewart v Dunham, 115 U S. 61, 64, Atchmond v
_Trons, 121 U S. 27, 52. And since where jurisdiction would
not obtain in an independent suit, an intervening proceeding
may nevertheless be maintained as ancillary and supplemental
under jurisdiction already subsisting, such proceeding is to be
regarded in that aspect, even in cases where the Circuit Court
might have had jurisdiction of an independent, action. Here,
as we have said, the jurisdiction of the.Circuit Court was invoked in the first instance by the filing of the bill, and it was
under that jurisdiction that appellee intervened in the case,
and that jurisdiction depended entirely upon- diverse citizenship. We think the use of the words "suit or controversy"
in the sixth section does not affect the conclusion. If the
word "controversy" added anything to the comprehensiveness of the section, the fact remains that the exercise of the
power of disposition over this intervention, whether styled
suit or controversy, was the exercise of power invoked at the
institution of the main suit, and it is to that point of time
that the inquiry as to Jurisdiction must necessarily be referred.
Colorado Central Mining Co. v Turck, 150 U S. 138. Nor
can the conclusion be otherwise because separate appeals may
be allowed on such interventions. Decrees upon controversies
separable from the main suit may indeed be separately reviewed but the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over such
controversies is not, therefore, to be ascribed to grounds independent of jurisdiction in the main suit. We are unable to
attribute to Congress the intention of allowing final orders
on every incidental controversy, involving over one thousand
dollars, to be brought to this court for review, while denying
such review of the principal decree, although involving millions.
Tested by these principles, the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was final, and the motion to dismiss must be
sustained.
Appeal dismissed.

