A-RD v. BRAITDON.
Statement of the Case.

.ARD v. BRANDON.

ARD v. PRATT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
Nos. 141,142. Argued January 10, 1895. -Decided

March 4,1895.

A., being qualified to make a homestead entry, entered in good faith upon
public land within the indemnity limits of a railroad grant, but not within
the place limits. He demanded at the local land office the right to enter
160 acres as ahomestead. This was refused on the ground that the tract
was within the limits of the grant, although at that time the land had
not been withdrawn from entry and settlement. This was subsequently
done, and the land conveyed to the railway company. A. remained upon
the land, cultivating it. In an action to recover possession from him,
brought here from a state court by writ of error, H~eld, that the application was wrongfully rejected, and .that his rights under it were not
affected by the fact that he took no appeal.

THESE two cases may be considered together, for the initial

fact m defendant now plaintiff-m-error's claim of right is
the same in each case. The actions were commenced by the
respective defendants in error as plaintiffs in the District Court
of Allen County, Kansas, the first, to recover the possession of
the north half of the northeast quarter of section 11, township
26, range 20, and the other to recover possession of the west
half of the southeast quarter of section 2, township 26, range
20. These two tracts, each of 80 acres, adjoin, and are so
situated as to be the subject of one homestead entry Rev.
Stat. ยง 2289 and 2298.
The first of these tracts was on April 10, 1873, certified by
the United States to. the'State of Kansas, and by it on May
19, 1873, conveyed to the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway
Company The second was patented November 3, 1873, by
the United States directly to the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway Company The respective plaintiffs hold under conveyances from the railway company
A jury having been waived, the cases were submitted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

the court upon certain admissions, and the single testimony of
the defendant. No special findings of facts appear in the
record, but by both the trial and the Supreme Court of the
State the facts testified to as well as those admitted were
treated as facts in the case. Among the matters admitted
were these. "At the time defendant made settlement he was
competent to make a legal homestead or preemption entry,
and has ever since been duly competent and qualified to make
a valid homestead entry, and that he still resides on said land,
with a wife and six children, and that he has all the required
improvements to perfect a homestead or premption. It is
admitted that the W 2 of S. E. 1, sec. 2,26, 20 E., was
selected by the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company,
April 14, 1873, and it was patented to said company the 3d
day of November, 1873, under the act of Congress of July 26,
1866. The N. of the N. E. J of sec. 11, 26, 20 E., was
selected by both companies jointly - Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Railway Company and L., L. & G. R. R., August
the 8th, 1872. This tract was approved to the State for the
M., K. & T. Co., April 10, 1873, under the act of Congress of
March 3, 1863. Both tracts were selected as indemnity lands,
and both tracts are over 12 miles from both roads and lie
within the indemnity limits of both the L., L. & G. and
I., K. & T. R. R. Said defendant also testified that when
said defendant settled on said land he did it in good faith and
for the sole purpose of making it his homestead."
So much of defendant's testimony as bears upon his
original occupation of the 160 acres, and his first transaction
at the government land office, is as follows
"The first work said defendant did on said land was about
the last of June, 1866, that he broke about two acres of prairie and three hedge rows on said landl, making about five acres
in all. Then I went to the U S. land office at Humboldt,
Kansas, which was on the 14th day of July, 1866, and there
I made out a homestead application for said land, as described,
and tendered the application and the land office fees to the
register of the U S. land office, of which Watson Stewart was
register of said land office,-and at that time I was a single
-

ARD v. BRANDON.
Statement of the Case.

man and over 21 years of age, a citizen of the United States,
and had never had the benefit of the homestead or pregmption laws of the United States, but said register, Watson

Stewart, rejected said application and fees, as he claimed, on
the ground that said land was situate within the granted
limits of the L., L. & G. R. R. and was double mimmum
lands, and that.he could not let me homestead only 80 acres,
as the land was double in price. Said register advised me if
'I wanted said 160 acres that I could first make a pregmiption
filing on 80 acres of land and put a house on said land within
12 months and prove up and pay for it at $2.50 per acre, and
then I could homestead 80 acres more, and by that plan I
could get 160 acres, but said register told me that I could
change a preemption filing at any time if I wanted to into a
homestead, so I told said register as he would not allow my
homestead I would make a pre~imption filing on part of the
land, as he would not let me only on 80 acres, so he made out
the filihg and I paid him a fee of $2.00, which he said was the
fee.
"A copy is hereto attached and admitted as in evidence
"' REGISTER'S OFFICE,

"'No. 2115.

HUMBOLDTr, KANSAS, JIy 14th, 1866.
"'I certify that Newton L. Ard has this day filed in this
office his notice to claim by right of preguiption the west half
of the southeast quarter of section No. 2, in township No. 26
S., in range No. 20 east, of the sixth principal meridian, in the
State of Kansas. $2.50 per acre, within R. R. limits.
C"'WATSON STEWART,

cc4Regwter
"Said words and figures '$2.50 per acre, within IR. R.
limits,' being written m red ink transversely across the face of
the certific~ite."
It also appears from his testimony that subsequently and in
the fall of 1866 and the spring of 1867 he did further work on
the land, and built a house thereon, that about July 1, 1867,
he again went to the land office, but was told by Colonel N. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Goss, then the register, that he could neither change his preemption into a homestead entry nor prove up under the preemption law In 1872 he made formal application to prove
up on the land, but his application was denied by the local
land officers. From this denial he prosecuted an appeal to
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and thence to
the Secretary of the Interior, by both of whom the decision
of the local land officers was affirmed.
The judgments of the District Court were in favor of the
plaintiffs, which judgments were afterwards affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State on the ground that the legal title
passed by the instruments offered in evidence through the
railway company to the plaintiffs, and that the decision of
the Land Department upon the. facts of defendant's occupation and improvements was conclusive as against his equitable
rights. To reverse these judgments the defendant sued out
writs of error from this court.
# William Lawrence for plaintiff in error.
ir A. B. Browne, (with whom were Ar A. T Bruton
and Mr George R. Peck on the brief,) for defendant in error.
lMfi.

JUSTiE.

BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the

opiiion of the court.
As these lands were not within the place limits of either the
Leavenworth, Lawrence and Galveston Railroad or the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway, and as they were within the
indemnity limits of both roads, it is not open to question that
the certification by the Land Department to the State of
Kansas and the conveyance by it to the railway company of
the one tract, and the patent directly from the United States
of the other, operated to transfer the legal title to these two
tracts to the railway company, and also that the United, States
has no cause of action against the railway company or its
_grantees to disturb the legal title thus conveyed. Kansas City,
lawrence &o. Railroad v Attorney General, 118 U S. 682,

ARD v. BRANDON.
Opinion of the Court.

United States v .Missourz, Kfansas & Texa Railway, 141 U. S.
358. But it is equally clear under the authority of the last cited
case, as well as of many others, that no adjudication against
the government in a suit by it to set aside a patent estops an
individual not a party thereto from thereafter setting up his
equitable rights in the land for which the patent was issued.
Referring to allegations in the bill of the United States in that
case of matters very like those presented here, :Mr. Justice
Harlan, speaking for the court, said (page 379) "If the facts.
are as thus alleged, it is clear that the -MissouriKansas Company
holds patents to land both within the place and ndeinity
limits of the Leavenworth road which equitably belong to bona
f#de settlers who acquired rights under the homestead and preemption laws, which were not lost by reason of the Land
Department having, by mistake or an erroneous interpretation
of the statutes in question, caused patents to be issued to the
company"
The question, therefore, is whether the cases disclose equita-ble rights in the defendant superior to the claims of the rail- way company If his rights are only those which spring from
his preemption entry and subsequent occupation of the lands,.
it may well be, as held by the Supreme Court of the State,
that the decisions of the Land Department upon the questions.
of fact are conclusive against him. But we are of the opinion
that the testimony shows a right anterior to his pre6mption
entry -a right of which he was deprived by the wrongful
acts of the local land officer, and which he did not forfeit or,
lose by virtue of his subsequent -efforts to preempt the land.
According to this testimony he had commenced improving
the premises prior to July 14, 1866. He was qualified under
the laws of the United States to make a homestead entry
The land was not within the place limits of either road, and
had not been withdrawn by the Land Department from entry
and settlement, for the orders of withdrawal were not made
until 'March 19 and April 30, 1867. He had therefore, on
July 14, when he went to the land office, the right to enter
the entire 160 acres as a homestead. This right he demanded.
He made out a homestead application for the land as described,,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

tendered the application and the land office fees to the register
of the land office, but the register rejected the application, giving as a reason therefor that the land was within the granted
limits of the Leavenworth, Lawrence and Galveston Railroad,
and was double minimum lands, and that 80 acres was the
limit of a homestead entry of such lands. As to this matter
of fact the register was mistaken, and his rejection of the
application was wrongful, and denied to defendant that homestead entry which under the law he was then entitled to. In
the case of Sliepley v Cowan, 91 U S. 330, 338. this court said,
after referring to the cases of _iswe v TFhitney, 9 Wall. 187,
and the Yosemte Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77
"But whilst, according to these decisions, no vested right
as agaznst the United States is acquired until all the prerequisites for the acquisition of the title have been complied with,
parties may, as against each other, acquire a right to be preferred in the purchase or other acquisition of the land, when
the United States have determined to sell or donate the property In all such cases, the first in time in the commencement of proceedings for the acquisition of the title, when the
same are regularly followed up, is deemed to be the first in
right. So in this case, Chartrand, the ancestor, by his previ,ous settlement in 1835 upon the premises in controversy, and
residence with his family, and application to prove his settlement and enter the land, obtained a better right to the
premises, under the law then existing, than that acquired by
McPherson by his subsequent state selection in 184,9. His
right thus initiated could not be prejudiced by the refusal of
the local officers to receive his proofs upon the declaration
that the land was then reserved, if, in point of fact, the reservation had then ceased. The reservation was asserted, as
already mentioned, on the ground that the land was then
claimed as a part of the commons of Carondelet. So soon
as the claim was held to be invalid to this extent by the
decision of this court'in March, 1862, the heirs of Chartrand
presented anew their claim to pregmption, founded upon a
settlement of their ancestor."
Within the authority of that case we think the defendant

ARD v. BRANDON.
Opinion of the Court.

has shown an equity prior to all claims of the railway company H; had a right to enter the land as a homestead, he
pursued the course of procedure prescribed by the statute,
he made out a formal application for the entry, and tendered
the requisite fees, and the application and the fees were
rejected by the officer charged with the duty of receiving
them - and wrongfully rejected by him. Such wrongful
rejection did not operate to deprive defendant of his equitable rights, nor did he forfeit or lose those rights because, after
this wrongful rejection, he followed the advice of the register
and sought in another way to acquire title to the lands. 'The
law deals tenderly with one who, in good faith, goes upon the
public lands, with a view of making a home thereon. If he
does all that the statute prescribes as the condition of acquirmg rights, the law protects him in those rights, and does not
make their continued existence depend alone upon the question whether or no he takes an appeal from an adverse decision of the officers charged with the duty of acting upon his
application.
"The policy of the Federal government in favor of settlers
upon public lands has been liberal. It recognizes their 'superor equity to become the purchasers of a limited extent of
land, comprehending their improvements, over that of any
other person." Clements v Warner, 24: How 394, 397.
There-7 an be no question as to the good faith of-the defendant. He went upon the land with the view of making it his
home. lHe has occupied it ever since. He did all that was
in his power in the first instance to secure the land as Is
homestead. That he failed was not his fault, it came through
the wrongful action of one of the officers of the government.
We do not mean to hold that the government or its grantees
are concluded by the mere fact that one of its officers has
given erroneous advice. If there was nothing more in this
case than that the defendant consulted the officers of the land
office as to how he could best obtain title to the land, that
they gave him advice which was founded upon a mistake of
fact and was not good advice, that he pursued the plan they
suggested, and yet failed to acquire the title, he would have

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

to bear the consequences of the error. But -here a rightful
application was wrongfully rejected. This was not a matter
of advice but of decision. Doubtless the error could have been
corrected by an appeal, an-a perhaps that would have been the
better way, but when, instead of pursuig that remedy, he is
persuaded by the local land officer that he can accomplish
that which he desires in another way - a way that to him
seems simpler and easier - it would be putting too much of
rigor and technicality into a remedial and beneficial statute
like the homestead law to hold that the equitable rights which
he had acquired by his application were absolutely lost.
For these reasons we are of opinion that there was error in
the conclusion of the Supreme Court of, the State of Kansas,
and the judgments in these two cNse-are,
Reversed for ,farther proceedings m accordance wzth the
mews herezn expressed.
IR. JUSTIcE GRAY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of these cases.

MADDOX v. BURNHAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF 3KANSAS.
No. 144. Argued January 10, 1895. -Decided

March 4, 1895.

In the year 1866 the mere occupation of public land, with a purpose at some
subsequent time of entering it for a homestead, gave the party so occupying no rights.

THIs case resembles the preceding in so far as the legal

title is concerned. The.action was commenced in the District
Court of Allen County, Kansas, by a grantee from the railway company In that court judgment was rendered in
favor of the defendant, which judgment was afterwards

