HANKS DENTAL ASSN. v. TOOTH CROWN CO. 303
194 U. S.

Syllabus,

held in this case that, inasmuch as by the New York statute
,a conditional sale such as that in question was void only as
against subsequent purchasers or pledgees or mortgagees in
good faith, the District Court was right, and affirmed the
judgment. 118 Fed. Rep. 1017.
We concur in this view which is sustained by decisions under
previous bankruptcy laws, Winsor v. McLellan, 2 Story, 492;
Donaldson v. Farwell, 93 U. S. 631; Yeatman v. Savings Institution, 95 U. S. 764; and is not shaken by a different result
.in cases arising in States by whose laws conditional sales are
void as against creditors.
In our opinion, these machines were not, prior to the filing
of the petition, property which, under the law of New York,
might have been levied upon and sold under judicial process
against the bankrupt; nor could she have transferred it within
the intent and meaning of section 70a. See Low v. Welch,
139 Massachusetts, 33. The company's title was good as
against the trustee, who could not claim as a subsequent purchaser in good faith.
Judgment affirmed.

HANKS DENTAL ASSOCIATION v. INTERNATIONAL
TOOTH CROWN COMPANY.
ON A CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR'
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 253. Argued April 26, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

The act of March 9, 1892, 27 Stat. 7, in regard to taking testimony, does
not repeal or modify § 861, Rev. Stat., or create any additional exceptions to those specified in the subsequent sections by enlarging the causes
or grounds for taking depositions, and is not supplementary to § 914,

Rev. Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S

A Circuit Court of the United States in the State of New York is not authorized to make an order for the examination of a party before trial
before a master or commissioner appointed pursuant to §870 et seq., of
the Code of Civil Procedure of New York.

THE certificate in this case is as follows:
"This cause comes here upon a writ of error for the review
of the judgment of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, entered upon the verdict of a jury in favor
of -the defendant in error, The International Tooth Crown
'Company, sustaining the validity of a patent and awarding
damages for infringement. Upon examination of the record
it appears that the sole evidence of infringement was found in
the deposition of the president of the Hanks Dental Association, the plaintiff in error, taken pursuant to an order of
the Circuit Court under section 870 ct seq. of the Code of Civil
Procedure of the State of New York, the defendant in error
contending the examination of a party before trial, if permitted by the law of the State, is authorized by act of Congress of March 9, 1892. 27 Stat. L. page 7.
"The taking of the deposition was objected to at every
stage and when offered in evidence at the trial it was again
duly obiected to and. to its reception the plaintiff in error
duly excepted.
"Whether this practice is warranted or not is the question
apon which we desire the instructions of the Supreme Court.
"Question Certified.
"Upon the facts above set out the question of law concerning which the court desires the instruction of the Supreme
Court is:
"Was the order of the Circuit Court directing the president
of the Hanks Dental Association, the defendant in that court,
to appear before a master or commissioner appointed pursuant
to the provisions of section 870 et seq. of the Code of Civil
Procedure of the State of New York valid and authorized
under the act of March 9, 1892?"

HANKS DENTAL ASSN. v. TOOTH CROWN CO.
194 U. S.

305

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Charles K. Offield and Mr. Philip B. Adams, with whom
Mr. Charles C. Linthicum was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Submitted by Mr. Walter D. Edmonds for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Section 870 of the Code of Civil Procedure of New York
provides that "the deposition of a party to an action pending
in a court of record or of a person who expects to be a party
.
may be taken at
to an -action about to be brought
his own instance or at the instance of an adverse party or of
a co-plaintiff or co-defendant at any time before the trial as
prescribed in this article." And succeeding sections set forth
how such examinations may be ordered.
In Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713, decided at October term,
1884, it was held that this statute was in conflict with section 861 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and not
within any of the exceptions to the rule therein prescribed.
The sections bearing on the subject were thus summarized
by Mr. Justice Miller, who delivered the opinion of the court:
"'SEc. 861. The mode of proof, in the trial of actions at
common law, Shall be by oral testimony and examination of
witnesses in open court, except as hereinafter provided.'
" 'SEC. 863. The testimony of any witness may be taken in
any civil cause depending in a District or Circuit Court, by
deposition de bene esse, when the witness lives at a greatcr
distance from the place of trial than one hundred miles, or is
bound on a voyage to sea, or is about to go out of the United
States, or out of the district in which the case is to be tried,
and to a greater distance than one hundred miles from the
place of trial, before the time of trial, or when he is ancient or
infirm.' The remainder of this section, and §§ 864 and 865,
are directory as to the officer before whom the deposition may
be taken, the notice to the opposite party, and the manner
of taking, testifying and returning the deposition to the court,
VOL. cxciv-20

OCTOBER TERMV,

1903.

Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Sinc. 866. In any case where it is necessary, in order to
prevent a failure or delay of justice, any of the courts of the
United States may grant a dedimus potestatem to take depositions according to common usage; and any CircuitCourt, upon
application to it as a court of equity, may, according to the
usages of chancery, direct depositions to be taken in perpetuam
rei memoriam, if they relate to any matters that way be
cognizable in any court of the United States.'
"Section 867 authorizes the courts of the United States, in
their discretion, and according to the practice in the state
courts, to admit evidence so taken; and §§ 868, 869 and 870
prescribe the manner of taking such depositions, and of the
use of the subpoena duces tecum, and how it may be obtained."
Mr. Justice Miller then continued: "No one can examine
these provisions for procuring testimony to be used in the
courts of the United States and have any reasonable doubt
that, so far as they apply, they were intended to provide a
system to govern the practice, in that respect, in those courts.
They are, 'inthe first place, too complete, too far-reaching; and
too minute to admit of any other conclusion. But we have
not only this inference from the character of the legislation,
but it is enforced by the express language of the law in providing a defined mode of proof in those courts, and in specifying the only exceptions to that mode which shall be admitted."
And he further said:" Its purpose is clear to provide a mode
of proof in trials at law, to the exclusion of all other modes of
proof." "It is not according to common usage to call a party
in advance of the trial at law, and to subject him to all the
skill of opposing counsel, to extract something which he may
then use or not as it suits his purpose." "Every action at
law in a court of the United States must be governed by the
rule or by the exceptions which the statute provides. There
is no place for exceptions made by state statutes. The court
is not at liberty to adopt them, or to require a party to conform to them. It has no power to subject a party to such an
examination as this."

HANKS DENTAL ASSN. v. TOOTH CROWN CO.

194 U.

307

Opinion of the Court.

Sections 721 and 914 were held inapplicable because the law
of the State was inconsistent with the law of Congress. And
see Beardsley v. Littell, 14 Blatchf. 102, Blatchford, J.; United
States v. Pings, 4 Fed. Rep. 714, Choate, J.; Fogg v. Fisk, 19
Fed. Rep. 235, Wallace, J.; Luxton v. "North River Bridge
Company, 147 U. S. 337, 338.
In Union Pacific Railway Company v. Botsford, 141 U. S.
250, decided at October term, 1890, the question was whether
a court of the United States could order a plaintiff, in an action
for an injury to the person, to submit to a surgical examination in advance of the trial, and it was held that it could
not.
Mr. Justice Gray, among other things, said: "Congress has
enacted that 'the mode of proof in the trial of actions at
common law shall be by oral testimony and exr mination of
witnesses in open court, except as hereinafter .prc.vided,' and
has then made special provisions for taking depositions. Rev.
Stat. §§ 861, 863 et seq. The only power of discovery or inspection, conferred by Congress, is to 'require the parties to
produce books or writings in their possession or power, which
contain evidence pertinent to the issue, in cases and under
circumstances where they might be compelled to produce the
same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in chancery,' and to
nonsuit or default a party failing to comply with such an
order. Rev. Stat. § 724. And the provision of §914, by
which the practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding in the courts of each State are to be followed in
actions at law in the courts of the United States held within
the same State neither restricts nor enlarges the power of
these courts to order the examination of parties out of court."
Ex parte Fisk was quoted from and applied, and the opinion
concluded: "The order moved for, subjecting the plaintiff's
person to examination by a surgeon, without her consent and
in advanceof the trial, was not according to the common law,
to common usage, or to the statutes of the United States.
The Circuit Court, to adopt the words of Mr. Justice Miller,

OCTOBER TEMI,

1908

'has no power to subject a party to such an examination as
this.' "
March 9, 1892, the following act was approved (27 Stat. 7):

"C1 tp. 14. An act to provide an additional mode of taking
depositions of witnesses in causes pending in the courts of the
United States. Be it enacted, etc., That in addition to the
mode of taking the depositions of witnesses in 'causes pending
at law or equity in the District and Circuit Courts of the United
States, it shall be lawful to take the depositions or testimony
of witnesses in the mode prescribed by the laws of the State
in which the courts are held."
Mode usually means the manner in which a thing is done,
and this act- relates to the manner of taking "depositions and
testimony," which the title treats as equivalent terms, and
which may be:so regarded so far as the question before us is
concerned. But it is contended that the word "mode". as
used in the aet has a broader significance and embraces the
production of evidence, thereby qualifying section 861, which
prescribes the.mode of proof.
We cannot concur in this view. The act is clear upon its
face and does not call for construction, or, at all events, is
susceptible of but one construction. It does not purport to
repeal in any part, or to modify, section 861, or to create additional exceptions to those specified in the subsequent sections
by enlarging the causes or grounds for taking depositions, and
as it is applicable alone to the taking of depositions or testimony in writing, we cannot attribute to it any such effect,
ncr hold, this being so, that it is supplementary to section
914.
That section refers to "the practice, pleadings, and forms
and modes of proceeding in civil causes'" and Mr. Justiie
Blatchford, then District Judge, in Beardsley v. LiieN, 'lougt
the expression "forms and modes of proceeding" did not
necessarily include the subject of evidence. But be tbhat as
it may, we do not think the words "mode of taking" were
ueed in this act with the intention of expanding the scope of

H3ANKS DENTAL ASSN. v. TOOTH CROWN CO.
29~4 U. S.

309

Opinion of the Court.

the section so as to cover the production of testimony through
the examination of a party before trial.
In short, the courts of the United States are not given dis.cretion to make depositions not authorized by Federal law,
but, in respect of depositions thereby authorized to be taken,
*they may follow the Federal practice in the manner of taking,
or that provided by the state law. United States v. Fifty
Boxes, 92 Fed. Rep. 601.
In National Cash Register Co. v. Leland, 77 Fed. Rep. 242,
it was ruled by the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts that the act of 1892 did not "enlarge the instances
in which depositions may be taken or in which answers may
be obtained upon interrogatories for use as proofs in the
Federal courts;" and "was only intended to simplify the
practice of taking depositions by providing that the mode of
taking in instances authorized by the Federal laws might conform to the mode prescribed by the laws of the State in which
Federal courts were held;" and this was approved by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. 94 Fed. Rep.
502. The conclusions announced by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Texas & PaCific Railway Co.
v. Wilder, 92 Fed. Rep. 953, and by the Circuit Court for the
District of Kansas in Shellabarger v. Oliver, 64 Fed. Rep. 306;
for the District Court of Indiana in Tabor v. Indianapolis
Journal,66 Fed. Rep. 423; for the Western District of Missouri
in Seeley v. Kansas City Star, 71 Fed. Rep, 554; for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania in Despeaux v. Pennsylvania Railroad
Company, 81 Fed. Rep. 897; for the Eastern District of Missouri
in Zych v. American Car & Foundry Company, 127 Fed. Rep.
723, are to the same effect. The decision of the Circuit Court
in this case is to the co&rary, 101 Fed. Rep. 306, and was
concurred in by the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Washington in Smith v. Northern Pacific Railway Company,
110 Fed. Rep. 341.
In Camknd & Suburban Railway Company v. Stetson, 177
U. 8
S 172, October term, 1899, the question of the power of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903,
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

the Circuit Court for the District of New Jersey under a statute of New Jersey providing therefor, was under consideration,
and the power sustained. The validity of the statute had
been affirmed by the Supreme Court of New Jersey, and in
the course of the opinion of this court it was said: "The validity
of a statute of this nature has also been upheld in Lyon v.
Manhattan Railway Company, 142 N. Y. 298, although the
particular form of that statute would probably be regarded
as conflicting with the law of Congress in relation to the examination of a party as a witness before trial, and hence might
not be enforced in courts of the United States sitting within
the State of New York."
Section 873 of the New York Code of Procedure provided
that "in every action to recover damages for personal injuries,
the court or judge, in granting an order for the examination
of the plaintiff before trial may, if the defendant apply therefor, direct that the plaintiff submit to a physical examination;"
and in Lyon v. Manhattan Railway Company, the Court of
Appeals held that the physical examination could only "be
procured in the same way and as part of the examination of
the party before trial;" that it could not be had apart from
and independent of the examination before trial. The reference to the New York statute in Camden & Suburban Railway
Company v. Stetson, so far as it goes, indicates the opinion of
the court that the ruling in Ex parte Fisk remained unaffected
by the act of March 9, 1892, in any substantial particular.
We think that that ruling applies, and that the question must
be answered in the negative.
So ordered.

