OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

arrested Walshe, and in his return to the writ of habeas corpus
distinctly avowed his purpose, unless restrained by the court,
to take the prisoner at once from the State in which he was
found and deliver him in New York, before Commissioner
Shields, without a hearing first had in the State of Indiana
before some authorized officer or magistrate there sitting, as
to the evidence of the criminality of the accused. The Circuit
Court adjudged that the Marshal had no authority to hold the
accused in custody for any such purpose; and, the Marshal
declining to amend his return and not avowing his intention
to take him before a judicial officer or magistrate in Indiana
for purposes of hearing the evidence of criminality, the prisoner
was properly discharged from the custody of that officer.
For the reasons above stated the judgment is
Affirmed.
CLIPPER MINING COMPANY v. ELI MINING AND LAND
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 76. Argued November 13, 1903.-Decided -May 2,1904.
This court has no jurisdiction in an action at law to review the conclusions
of the highest court of a State upon questions of fact.
The land department has the power to set aside a mining location and restore the ground to the public domain, but a mere rejection of.an application for a patent does not have that effect. A second or amended
application may be made and further testimony offered to show the applicant's right to a patent.
Although a placer location is not a location of lodes and veins beneath the
surface, but simply a claim of a tract of ground for the sake of loose deposits upon or near the surface, and the patent to a placer claim does
not convey the title to a known vein or lode within its area unless specifically applied and paid for, the patentee takes title to any lode or vein
not known to exist at the time of the patent and subsequently discovered.
The owner of a.valid mining location, whether lode or placer, has the right
to the exclusive possession and enjoyment of all the surface included
within the lines of the location.
One going upon a valid placer location to prospect for unknown lodes and
veins against the will of the placer owner, is a trespasser and cannot

CLIPPER MINING CO. v. ELI MINING & LAND CO. 221
194 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

initiate a right maintainable in an action at law to the lode and vein claims
within the placer limits which he may discover during such trespass.
The owner of a placer location may maintain an adverse action against an
applicant for a patent of a lode claim, when the latter's application includes part of the placer grounds.
Quore, and not decided, what the powers of a court of equity may be as
to conflicting placer and lode locations.

ON December 12, 1877, A. D. Searl and seven associates
made a location of placer mining ground near the new mining
camp of Leadville. The claim embraced at that time 157.02
acres of land. The original locators shortly conveyed all their
interest to Searl, who applied for a patent on July 5, 1878.
The application was met at the land office with a multitude of
adverse claims. Settlements were made with some of the
contestants, and on November 10,. 1882, an amended application for patent was filed, including only 101-&o66 acres. This
application was rejected by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office on. March 6, 1886, and his decision was affirmed
by the Secretary of the Interior on November 13, 1890. On
November 25, 1890, four lode claims, known as the Clipper,
Castle, Congress and Capital, were located by parties other
than the owners of the placer claim within the exterior boundaries of that claim. These four lode claims became by mesne
conveyances the property of the Clipper Mining Company. It
applied for a patent, and on November 23, 1893, the defendants in error, as the owners of the Searl placer location, filed
an adverse claim and commenced this action in the District
Court of Lake County, in support of that claim. Judgment
was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs, which was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the State, 29 Colorado, 377, and thereafter this writ of error was sued out.
Mr. W. H. Bryant, with whom Mr. C. S. Thomas and Mr.
W. H. Lee were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John A. Ewing and Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr.
Charles Cavender and Mr. Alexander Britton were on the brief,
for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The location of the placer mining claim and both the original
and amended applications for patent thereof were long prior to
the locations of the lode claims, and the contention of the plaintiffs is, that they, by virtue of their location, became entitled
to the exclusive possession of the surface ground; that the entry
of the lode discoverers was tortious and could not create an
adverse right, even though by means of their entry and explorations they discovered the lode claims. The defendant, on
the other hand, contends that the original location of the placer
claim was wrongful, for the reason that the ground included
within it was not placer mining ground; that the intent of the
locators was not placer mining but the acquisition of title to a
large tract of ground contiguous to the new mining camp of
Leadville, and likely to become a part of the townsite. In
fact, it was thereafter included within the limits of the town,
and on it streets and alleys have been laid out and many houses
built and occupied by individuals claiming adversely to the
placer location.
It is the settled rule that this court, in an action at law at
least, has no jurisdiction to review the conclusions of the highest
court of a State upon questions of fact. River Bridge Co. v.
Kansas Pac. Ry. Co., 92 U. S. 315; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S.
.658; Israel v. Arthur, 152 U. S.355; Noble v. Mitchell, 164 U. S.
367; Hedrick v. Atchison &c. Railroad, 167 U. S. 673, 677;
Turner v. New York, 168 U. S.90, 95; Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S.
188. It must, therefore, be. accepted that the Searl placer
claim was duly located, that the annual labor required by law
had been performed up to the time of the litigation, that there
was a subsisting valid placer location, and that the lodes were
discovered by their locators within the boundaries of the placer
claim subsequently to its location. So the trial court specifically found, and its finding was approved by the Supreme Court.
As against this, it is contended that the Land Department

CLIPPER MINING CO. v. ELI MINING & LAND CO. 223
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

held that the ground within the Searl location was not placer
mining ground, nor subject to entry as a placer claim, that such
holding by the department must be accepted as conclusive in
the courts, and therefore that the tract should be adjudged
public land and open to exploration for lode claims and to location by any discoverer of such claims. It is true that the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, in rejecting the
amended application for the placer patent, said that he was
not satisfied that the land was placer ground or that the
requisite expenditure had been made, And further that the
locators had not acted in good faith, but were attempting to
acquire title to the land on account of its value for townsite
purposes and for the lodes supposed to be contained therein.
This decision was affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior;
but notwithstanding this expression of opinion by these officials,
all that was done was to reject the application for a patent.
As said thereafter by the Secretary of the Interior upon an
application of the Clipper Mining Company for a patent for the
lode claims here in dispute:
"The judgment of the department in the Searl placer case
went only to the extent of rejecting the application for patent.
The department (lid not assume to declare the location of the
placer void, as contended by counsel, nor'did the judgment affect the possessory rights of the contestant to it." 22 L. D. 527.
So far as the record shows and the record does not purport
to contain all the evidence-the placer location is still recognized in the department as a *validlocation. Such also was the.
finding of the court, and being so there is nothing to prevent a
subsequent application for a patent and further testimony to
show the claimant's right to one. Undoubtedly when the
department rejected the application for a patent it could have
gone further and set aside the placer location, and it can now,
by direct proceedings upon notice, set it aside and restore the
land to the public domain. . But it has not done so, and therefore it is useless to consider what rights other parties might
then have.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

The fact that many years have elapsed since the original
location of the placer claim and that no patent has yet been
issued therefor does not affect its validity, for it is a well-known
fact, as stated by the Court of Appeals in Cosmos Exploration
Company v. Gray Eagle Oil Company, 112 Fed. Rep. 4, 16, that
"some of the richest mineral lands in the United States, which
have been owned, occupied and developed by individuals and
corporations for many years, have never been patented."
The views entertained by the Supreme Court of the law i.pplicable to the facts of this case are disclosed by the following
quotation from its opinion. After referring to one of its previous decisions, known as the Mt. Rosa case, it said:
"If, in the case at bar, the lode claims were known to exist
at the time of the entry of defendant's grantors upon the
Searl placer, under the decision in the Mt. Rosa case the entry
was not unlawful; but if, on the confrary, the veins were then
unknown, by the same decision the right of possession of this
ground belonged to the owners of the placer location. Their
right of possession included these unknown veins and the entry
for prospecting was a trespass, and no title could thereby be
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
initiated.
"Our conclusion, therefore, is that one may not go upon a
prior valid placer location to prospect for unknown lodes and
get title to lode claims thereafter discovered and located in this
manner and within the placer boundaries, unless the placer
owner has abandoned his claim, waives the trespass, or by his
conduct is estopped to complain of it. If the trial court in-tended to rule that in no circumstances may one, before application for a patent of a pl er claim, go upon the ground within
its exterior boundaries for the purpose of locating a lode, it
went too far; yet as general language in an opinion must be
taken in connection with the facts of the particular case, the
ruling here should be limited to the facts disclosed by the
record, and no prejudicial error was committed. For, under
the authorities, a prospector may not enter upon a prior placer
location for the purpose of prospecting for, or locating, unknown

CLIPPER MINING CO. r. ELI MINING & LAND CO. 225
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lodes or veins; and to uphold the judgment we must presume
that the evidence before the trial court showed that the veins
or lodes upon which the defendant's grantors based their locations were unknown when they entered upon the Searl placer
for the purpose of prospecting."
The law under which these locations were all made is to be
foUnd in chap. 6 of Title 32, Rev. Stat. Section 2319 of that
chapter reads:
"All valuable mineral deposits of lands belonging to the
United States, both surveyed and unsurveyed, are hereby declared to be free and open to exploration an(l purchase, and the
lands in which they are found to occupation and purchase."
Section 2320 provides for the location of mining claims upon
veins or lodes.
By section 2322 it is provided thaton any
"The locators of all mining locations ...
mineral vein, lode or ledge, situated on the public domain,
shall have the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all the surface included within the lines of their locations, and of all veins, lodes and ledges throughout their entire
depth, the top or apex of which lies inside of such surface lines
extended downward vertically."
And by section 2329:
"Claims usually called 'placers,' including all forms of deposit, excepting veins of quartz, or other rock in place, shall be
subject to entry and patent, under like circumstances and conditions, and upon similar proceedings, as are provided for vein
or lode claims."
Section 2333 is as follows:
"Where the same person, association, or corporation is in
possession of a placer claim, and also a vein or lode included
within the boundaries thereof, application shall be made for a
patent for the placer claim, with the statement that it includes
such vein or lode, and in such case a patent shall issue for the
placer claim, subject to the provisions of this chapter, including
such vein or lode, upon the payment of five dollars per acre for
Vol. CXC11-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

such vein or lode claim, and twenty-five feet of surface on each
side thereof. The remainder of the placer claim, or any placer
claim not embracing any vein or lode claim, shall be paid for at
the rate of two dollars and fifty cents per acre, together with all
costs of proceedings; and where a vein or lode, such as is described in section twenty-three hundred and twenty, is known
to exist within the boundaries of a placer claim, an application
for a patent for such placer claim which does not include an
application for the vein or lode claim shall be construed as a
conclusive declaration that the claimant of the placer claim
has no right of possession of the vein or lode claim; but where
the existence of a vein or lode in a placer claim is not known, a
patent for the placer claim shall convey all valuable mineral
and other deposits within the boundaries thereof."
It will be seen that section 2322 gives to the owner of a valid
lode location the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment
of all the surface included within the lines of the location. That
exclusive right of possession forbids any trespass. No one
without his consent, or at least his acquiescence, can rightfully
enter upon the premises or disturb its surface by sinking shafts
or otherwise. It was the judgment of Congress that, in order
to secure the fullest working of the mines and the complete
development of the mineral property, the owner thereof should
have the undisturbed possession of not less than a specified
amount of surface. That exclusive right of possession is as
much the property of the locator as the vein or lode by him
discovered and located. In Belk v. Meagher, 104 U. S. 279,
283, it was said by Chief Justice Waite that "A mining claim
perfected under the law is property in the highest sense of that
term;" and in a later case, Gwillim v. Donnellan, 115 U. S. 45,
49, he adds:
"A valid and subsisting location of mineral lands, made and
kept up in accordance with the provisions of the statutes of the
United States, has the effect of a grant by the United States of
the right of present and exclusive possession of the lands located. If, when one enters on land to make a location there is

CLIPPER MINING CO. r. ELI MINING & LAND CO. 227
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

another location in full force, which entitles its owner to the
exclusive possession of the land, the first location operates as
a bar to the second."
In St. Louis Mining Co. v. Montana Mining Co., 171 U. S.
650, 655, the present Chief Justice declared that "where there
is a valid location of a mining claim, the area becomes segregated from the public domain and the property of the locator."
Nor is this "exclusive right of possession and enjoyment"
limited to the surface, nor even to the single vein whose discovery antedates and is the basis of the location. It extends
(so reads the section) to "all veins, lodes and ledges throughout
their entire depth, the top or apex of which lies inside of such
surface lines extended downward vertically." v In other words,
the entire body of ground, together with all veins and lodes
whose apexes are within that body of ground, becomes subject
to an exclusive right of possession anr eaiijoymnt by the
locator. And this exclusive right of possession and enjoyment
continues during the entire life of the location, or, in the words
of Chief Justice Waite, just quoted, while there is "a valid and
subsisting location of mineral lands, made and kept up in accordance with the provisions of the statutes of the United
States." There is no provision .for, no suggestion of a prior
termination thereof.
By section 2329, placer claims are subject to entry and patent
"under like circumstances and conditions, and upon similar
proceedings, as are provided for vein or lode claims." The
purpose of this section is apparently to place the location of
placer claims on an equality both in procedure and rights with
lode claims. If. there -were no other legislation in respect to
placer claims the case before us would present little doubt, but
following this are certain provisions, those having'special bearing on the case before us being found in section 2333. Parties
obtaining a patent for a lode claim must pay $5 an acre for the
surface ground while for a placer claim the government only
charges $2.50 an acre. By section 2333 it is provided that one
who is in possession of a placer claim and also of a lode claim

OCTOBER TRM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court

194 U. S.

included within the boundaries of the placer claim shall, on
making application for a patent, disclose the fact of the lode
claim within the boundaries of the placer, and upon the issue
of the patent paymehit shall be made accordingly; that if the
application for the placer claim does not include an application
for a vein or lode claim known to exist within the boundaries
of the placer it shall be construed as a conclusive declaration
that the placer claimant has no right of possession of that vein
or lode; and further, that where the existence of a vein or lode
within the boundaries of a placer claim is not known the patent
for the placer claim shall convey all valuable mineral and other
deposits within its boundaries.
A mineral lode or vein may have its apex within the area of a
tract whose surface is valuable for placer mining, and this last
section is the provision which Congress has made for such a
case. That a lode or vein, descending as it often does to great
depths, may contain more mineral than can be obtained from
the loose deposits which are secured by placer mining within
the same limits of surface area, naturally gives to the surface
area a higher value in the one case than the other, and that
Congress appreciated this difference is shown by the different
prices charged for the surface under the two conditions. Often
the existence of a lode or vein is not disclosed by the placer
deposits. Hence ground may be known to be valuable and be
located for placer mining, and yet no one be aware that under..
neath the surface there is a lode or vein of greater value. A
placer location is not a location of lodes of veins underneath the
surface, but is simply a claim of a tract or parcel of ground for
the sake of loose deposits of mineral upon or near the surface.
A lode or vein may be known to exist at the time of the placer
location or not known until long after a patent therefor has
been issued. There being no necessary connection between
the placer and the vein Congress by the section has provided
that in an application for a placer patent the applicant shall
include any vein or lode of which he has possession, and that
if he does not make such inclusion the omission is to be taken

CLIPPER MINING CO. v. ELI MINING & LAND CO. 229
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as a conclusive declaration that he has no right 6f possession of
such vein or lode. If, however, no vein or lode within 'the
placer claim is known to exist at the time the patent is issued,
then the patentee takes title to any which may be subsequently
discovered.
While by. the statute the right of exclusive possession and
enjoyment is given to a locator, whether his location be of a
lode claim or a placer claim, yet the effect of a patent is different. The patent of a lode claim confirms the original location, with the right of exclusive possession, and conveys title
to the tract covered by the location together with all veins,
lodes and ledges which have their apexes therein, whereas the
patent to the placei claim, while confirming the original location and conveying title to the placer ground, does not necessarily convey the title to all veins, lodes and ledges within its
area. It makes no difference whether a vein or lode within the
boundaries of a lode claim is known or unknown, for the locator
is entitled to the exclusive possession and enj6yment of all the
veins and lodes and the patent confirms his title to them. But
a patent of a placer claim will not convey the title to a known
vein or lode within its area unless that vein or lode is specifically applied and paid for.
It is contended that because a vein or lode may have its apex
within the limits of a placer claim a stranger has a right to go
upon the claim, and by sinking shafts or otherwise explore for
any such lode or vein, and on finding one obtain a title thereto.
That, with the consent of the owner of the placer claim, he may
enter and make such exploration, and if successful, obtain title
to the vein or lode, cannot be questioned. But can he do so
against the will of the placer locator? If one may do it, others
may, and so the whole surface of the placer be occupied by
strangers seeking to discover veins beneath the surface. Of
what value then would the placer be to the locator? Placer
workings are surface workings, and if the placer locator cannot
maintain possession of the surface he cannot continue his
workings. And if the surface is open to the entry of whoever

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

seeks to explore for veins, his possession can be entirely destroyed. In this connection it may be well to notice the last
sentence in section 2322. That section, from which we have
just quoted, is the one which gives a locator the right to pursue
a vein on its dip outside of the vertical side lines of his location. The sentence, which is a limitation on such right,
reads: "And nothing in this section shall authorize the locator
or possessor of a vein or lode which extends in its downward
course beyond the vertical lines of his, claim to enter upon the
surface of a claim owned or possessed by another."
It would seem strange that one owning a vein and having a
right in pursuing it to enter beneath the surface of another's
location should 'be expressly fcrbidden to enter upon that surface if at the same time one owning no vein and having no
rights beneath the surface is at liberty to enter upon that surface and prospect for veins as yet undiscovered.
We agree with the Supreme Court of Colorado as to the law
when it says that "one may not go upon a prior valid placer
location to prospect for unknown lodes and get title to lode
claims thereafter discovered and located in this manner and
within the placer boundaries, unless the placer owner has
abandoned his claim, waives the trespass, or by his conduct is
estopped to complain of it." Perhaps if the placer owner, with
knowledge of what the prospectors are doing, takes no steps to
restrain their work and certainly if he acquiesces in their action,
he cannot after they have discovered a vein or lode assert
right to it, for, generally, a vein belopigs to him who has discovered it, and a locator permitting others to search within the
limits of his placer ought not thereafter to appropriate thai
which they have discovered by such search.
The difficulty with the case presented by the plaintiff in error
is, that under the findings of fact, we must take it that the entries of the locators & these several lode claims upon the placer
grounds were trespasses, and as a general rule no one can
initiate a right by means of a trespass. Atherton v. Fowler, 96
U. S. 513; Trenouth v. San Francisco, 100 U. S. 251; Haws v.

CLIPPER MINING CO. v. ELI MINING & LAND CO. 231
191 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Victoria Copper Mining Company, 160 U. S. 303. See also
Cosmos Exploration Company v. Gray Eagle Company, supra,
in which the court said (p. 17):
"No right can be initiated on government land which is in
the actual possession of another by a forcible, fraudulent or
clandestine entry thereon. Cowell v. Lammers, (C. C.) 21 Fed.
Rep. 200, 202; Nevada Sierra Oil Co. v. Home Oil Co., (C. C.)
08 Fed. Rep. 674, 680; Hosmer v. Wallace, 97 U. S. 575, 579;
Trenouth v. San Francisco, 100 U. S. 251; Mower v. Fletcher,
116 U. S. 380, 385, 386; Haws v. Mining Company, 160 U. S.
303, 317; Nickals v. Winn, 17 Nevada, 188, 193; McBrown v.
Morris, 59 California, 64, 72; Goodwin v. McCabe, 75 California,
584, 588; Rourke v. McNally, 98 California, 291."
If a placer locator is, as we have shown, entitled to the exclusive possession of the-surface, an entry thereon against his
will, for the purpose of prospecting by sinking shafts or otherwise, is undoubtedly a trespass, and such a trespass cannot be relied upon to sustain a claim of a right to veins and lodes. It will
not do to say that the right thus claimed is only a right to something which belongs to the United States and which will never
belong to the placer locator, unless specifically applied and
paid for by him, and therefore that he has no cause of complaint; for if the claim of the lode locator be sustained it carries
under sections 2320 and 2333 at least twenty-five feet of the
surface on each side of the middle of the vein. Further, if
there be no prospecting, no vein or lode discovered until after
patent, then the title to all veins and lodes within the area of
the placer passes to the placer patentee and any subsequent
discovery would enure to his benefit.
Again, it is contended that the claims which the defendant
sought to patent were lode claims; that the only title set up in
the complaint in the adverse suit was a placer title, and that a
placer claimant has no standing to maintain an adverse suit
against lode applications. In support of this is cited 2 Lindley
on Mines, section 721, in which the author says:
"Where an application for a patent to a lode within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

limits of a placer is made by a lode claimant, if the placer
claimant asserts any right to the lode, he is necessarily called
upon to adverse. Where his claim, however, is placer, pure
and simple, under which claim he cannot lawfully assert a
right to the lode, he has nothing upon which to base an adverse claim, unless the lode is entirely without the placer, and
the controversy is confined to a conflicting surface, or the lode
claimant seeks to acquire more surface than the law permits."
We do not think the author's language is to be taken 'as
broadly as counsel contend. Under the statutes a lode claim
carries with it the right to a certain number of acres, and where
one is in peaceable possession of a valid placer claim, if a
stranger forcibly enters-upon that claim, discovers and locates
a lode claim within its boundaries, and then applies for a patent,
surely the placer claimant has a right to be heard in defence of
.his title to the ground of which he has been thus forcibly dispossessed. If the application for 'apatent of the lode claim is
not adversed it will pass to patent, and it may well be doubted
whether the placer claimant could, after the issue of a patent
Under such circumstances, maintain an equitable suit to have
the patentee declared the holder of the legal title to the ground
for his benefit. If the placer claimant can be thus deprived
of his possession and title to a part of his ground he may be in
like manner dispossessed of all by virtue of many forcible trespasses and lode discoveries.
The amount of land embraced in this placer location was
about one hundred acres, while the land claimed under the
several lode locations was a little over thirty-five acres. Can
it be that the placer claimant had no right to be heard in court
respecting the claim of the lode claimants to po large a portion
of the placer ground?
We must not be understood to hold. that, because of the
judgment in this adverse suit in favor of the placer claimants,
their right to a pitent for the land is settled beyond the reach
of inquiry by the government, or that the judgment neces-

CLIPPER MINING CO. v. ELI MINING & LAND CO. 233
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sarily gives to them the lodes in controversy. In 2 Lindley
on Mines, sec. 765, the author thus states the law:
"Notwithstanding the judgment of the court on the question
of the right of possession, it still remains for the Land Department to pass upon the sufficiency of the proofs, to ascertain
the character of the land, and determine whether or no the
conditions of the law have been complied with in good faith."
In 4 L. D. 316, Mr. Justice Lamar, then Secretary of the
Interior, said in respect to this question:
"Does the judgment of a court as to which of two litigants
has the better title to a piece of land bind the Commissioner to
say, without judgment, or contrary to his judgment, that the
successful litigant has complete title and is entitled to patent
under the law? The usual result following a favorable judgment in a court under section 2326 of the Revised Statutes is,
I doubt not, the issue of patent in due time, but in such case
the final passing of title is not on the judgment of the court
independent of that of the Commissioner, but is on the judgment of the latter pursuant to that of the former, and on certain evidence supplemental to that furnished by the judgment
roll.
"The judgment of the court is, in the language of the law,
'to determine the question of the right of possession.' It does
not go beyond that. When it has determined which of the
parties litigant is entitled to possession, its office is ended, but
title to patent is not yet established.
"The party thus placed in possession may 'file a certified
copy of the judgment roll with the register and receiver.'
But this is not all. He may file 'the certificate of the surveyor
general that the requisite amount of labor has been performed
or improvements made thereon.' Why file this, or anything
further, if the judgment roll settles all questions as to title and
right to patent? Clearly, because the law vests in the Commissioner the authority and makes it his duty to see that the
requirements of law relative to entries and granting of patents
thereunder shall have been complied with before the issue of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

patent. His judgment should therefore be satisfied before he
is called upon to take final action in any case. In this case, the
judgment of the court ended the contest between the parties
and determined the right of possession. The judgment roll
proves the right of possession only. The applicant must still
make the proof required by law to entitle him to patent.
Branagan v. Dulaney, 2 L. D. 744. The sufficiency of that
proof is a matter for the determination of the Land Department."
This opinion was cited as an authority by this court in Perego
v. Dodge, 163 U. S. 160, 168. See also Aurora Lode v. Bulger
Hill & Nugget Gulch Placer,23 L. D. 95, 103. The land office
may yet decide against the validity of the lode locations and
deny all claims of the locators thereto. So also it may decide
against the placer location and set it aside, and in that event
all rights resting upon such location will fall with it.
Finally, we observe that the existence of placer rights and
lode rights within the same area seems to have been contemplated by Congress, and yet full provision for the harmonious
enforcement of both rights is not to be found in the statutes.
We do not wonder at the comment made by Lindley, (1 Lindley, 2d ed. sec. 167,) that "the townsite laws, as they now exist,
consist simply of a chronological arrangement of past legislation, an aggregation of fragments, a sort of 'crazy quilt,' in the
sense that they lack harmonious blending. This may be said
truthfully 6f the- general- body of the mining laws." Many
regulations of the Land, Department and decisions of courts
find their warrant in an effort to so adjust various statutory
provisions as to carry out what was believed to be the intent
of Congress and at the same time secure justice to miners and
those engaged in exploring for mines. If we assume that
Congress, recognizing the co-existence of lode and placer rights
within the same area, meant that a lode. or vein might be
secured by a party other than the owner of the placer location
within which it is discovered-providing his discovery was
made without forcible trespass and dispossession-it may be

ST. LOUIS MINING &c. CO. r. MONTANA &c. CO. 235
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

that a court of equity is competent to provide by its decree
that the discoverer of the lode, within the placer limits, shall
be secured in the temporary possession of so much of the ground
as will enable him to successfully work his lode, protecting at
the same time the rights of the placer locator. But such equitable adjustment of co-existing rights cannot be secured in a
simple adverse action and it would be, therefore, beyond the
limits of proper inquiry in this case to determine the rights
which may exist, if in the end the placer location be sustained
and a discovery of the lodes without forcible trespass and dispossession established.
But for the present, for the reasons above given, we think
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado was right, and
it is

Affined.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

dissent.

ST. LOUIS MINING AND MILLING COMPANY OP MONTANA v. MONTANA MINING COMPANY, LIMITED.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 250. Submitted April 21, 1O4.-Decided May 2, 11.

The patent for a lode claim takes the sub-surface as well as the surface, and
there is no other right to disturb the sub-surface than that given by 1 2322,
Rev. Stat., to the owner of a vein apexing without its surface but descending on its dip into the sub-surface to pursue and develop that vein.

was a suit brought by the appellee (hereinafter called
the Montana Company) against the appellants (hereinafter
called the St. Louis Company) in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Montana, for an1injunction
restraining the further prosecution of a tunnel. The facts were
THIS

