OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Nlo. 433. Argued January 7, 8, 1904.-Decided April 11, 1904.

Consent of parties can never confer jurisdiction upon a Federal court. If
the record does not affirmatively show jurisdiction in the Circuit Court,
this court must, upon its own motion, so declare, and make such order as
will prevent the Circuit Court from exercising an authority not conferred
upon it by statute.
A State is not a citizen within the meaning of the provisions of the Constitution or acts of Congress regulating the jurisd iction of the Federal courts.
Under existing statutes regulating the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States, a case cannot be removed from a state court, as one arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, unless the plaintiff's
complaint, bill or declaration shows it to be a case of that character.
While an allegation in a complaint filed in a Circuit Court of the United States
may confer jurisdiction to dbtermine whether the case is of the class of
which the court may properly take cognizance for purposes of a final decree on the merits, if, notwithstanding such allegation, the court finds,
at any time, that the case does nt really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy within its jurisdiction then, by the express command
of the act of 1875, its duty is to proceed no further. And if the suit, as
disclosed by the complaint could not have been brought by plaintiff
originally in the Circuit Court, then, under the act of 1887-1888 it should
not have been removed from the state court and should be remanded.
The intention of the Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 209, was to
limit direct proceedings in equity to prevent and restrain such violations
of the Anti-Trust Act as cause injury to the general public, or to all alike,
merely from the suppression of competition in trade and commerce among
the several States and with foreign nations, to those instituted in the
name of the United States, under § 4 of the act, by District Attorneys
of the United States, acting under the direction of the Attorney General;
thus securing the enforcement of the act, so far as such direct proceedings
in equity are concerned, according to some unifcrm plan, operative
throughout the entire country.
A State cannot maintain an action in equity to restrain a corporation from
violating the provisions of the act of July 2, 1890, on the ground that such
violations by decreasing competition would depreciate the value of its
public lands and enhance the cost of maintaining its public institutions,
the damages resulting from such violations being remote and indirect and
not such direct actual injury as is providedfor in § 7 of the act.

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Article IV of the Constitution of the United States only prescribes a rule by
which courts, Federal and state, are to be guided when a question arises
in the progress of a pending suit as to the faith and credit to be given by
the court to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of a State,
other than that in which the court is sitting. It has nothing to do with
the conduct of individuals or corporations.

TiIE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. 1f. B. Douglas, Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, and Mr. M. D.Munn, with whom Mr. George P. Wilson was on the brief, for appellant:

As to removal to and jurisdiction of the Circuit Court:
The action was removed on the joint petition of all the defendants, on the ground that it arose under the Constitution
and laws of the United States, and that the right upon which
it was based and on which a recovery by plaintiff depended,
would be defeated by one-construction of the Constitution or
said laws, and sustained by an opposite construction. Diverse
citizenship did not form a basis for such removal, Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482, and could not
rightfully be presented as a ground therefor.
As to the doing of business by the Northern Securities
Company within Minnesota and attempt to vacate service of
summons, see Goldey v. Morning News Co., 156 U. S. 518;
Wabash TWestern Railway v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271.
The Circuit Court has jurisdiction of all civil actions in part
arising under or depending upon the construction of the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States. 24 Stat. 552;
25 Stat. 433; Postal Tel. Cable Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482;
Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 462; Gold-Washing and Water Co.
v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 203; Shoshone Mining Co. v. Rutter, 177
U. S.507; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S.410.
the light of section 5 of the Court of Appeals ActRead in'
chap. 517 of the laws of 1891-it is equally clear that jurisdiction is assumed to exist in the Circuit Courts and an appeal
authorized "in any case that involves the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States."
VOL. cxciv--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1903o.
Argument for Appellant.

194 U. S.

The Supreme Court of the United States is without original
jurisdiction of this controversy. Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199.
Assuming the facts to be as stated in the affidavit of the
president of the Securities Company, above referred to,, to the
effect that the Securities Company is not the owner of any
property situated in Minnesota and never transacted any
business therein, the courts of Minnesota cannot acquire jurisdiction to hear and determine the issues involved herein, a
jurisdiction over the person of the Securities Company cannot
be obtained. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; St. Clair v. Cox,.
.106 U. S. 350; Goldey v. Morning News Co., 156 U. S. 518;
Barrow Steamship, Co. v. Kane, 170 U. S. 100; Cabanne v.
Graf, 87 Minnesota, 510; Conley v. Matheson Alkely Works,
190 U. S. 406.
The Northern Pacific and Great Northern Railway companies are necessary parties with the Securities Company, and
being residents of different States and not engaged in doing
business in any single State, jurisdiction of the person of all
the defendants cannot 'be obtained elsewhere than in this
court, in which the Securities Company has voluntarily appeared. Minnesota v. Northern Securities Company, supra.
Under Californiav. Southern Pacific Ry. Co., 157 U. S. 270,
and Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., unless a Federal
'
question is deemed to exist in this record which gives to they
Circuit Court jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action, under our dual form of government, a State will be deprived of the right to invoke the jurisdiction, of any court in
the land for the purpose Of enforcing its laws or protecting its
proprietary interests from unlawful acts done in violation of
the laws of the State or Nation.
Two Federal questions are clearly set forth in appellant's
bill of complaint. Whether the State to protect its proprietary
interests had a cause of action against the defendants arising
in part aider the Federal Anti-Trust Act; and whether the
state Anti-Consolidation and Anti-Trust Acts (rightly con-

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

strued) had been violated. This presents a controversy between the appellant and the defendants, the correct determi.
nation of which involves or depends upon the construction
and the application of the commerce clause as well as Article IV of the Constitution of the United States.
An issue wyas tendered in which the appellant alleged the
commission of certain acts by the defendants which were
specifically asserted to be not only seriously injurious to its
proprietary -interest, but in violation of the Federal AntiTrust Act, and the learned trial court iq its decision actually
construed the act adversely to one contention of appellant and
this construction rendered it unnecessary for the court to
construe the act with reference to the other questions submitted. In this portion of the decree the court construed the
act as excluding the appellant from invoking equity jurisdiction for its enforcement. Again, upon the argument in this
court appellant's contentions upon both propositions were
strenuously opposed by counsel for appellees.
It is therefore submitted that the pending controversy is one
in part "arising under and depending upon the construction
of the laws of the United States." Cases cited supra, and
Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410; Defiance WaterCo. V.
Defiance, 191 U. S. 184; N. P. Railway Co. v. Townsend, 190
U.-S. 270.
The test as to jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is clearly
stated in the opinion of the court in Gold-IWashing & Water
Co. v. Keyes, supra, and affirmed in the case of Shoshone
Mining Co. y. Rutter, supra, see p. 507; Railroad Company v.
Mississippi, 102 U. S. 141; Chapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S.
540; Kaukauna Co. v. Green Bay & Canal Co., 142 U. S. 254,
and cases cited; O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S.323,
•If this construction of the act of Congress obtains in the
application of the rule' invoked, it is clear from the record that
the State has suffered, and will continue from year to year to
suffer, damages to its proprietary interests which will be
difficult, if not impossible, to measure; running into mi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

lions of dollars.

194 U. S.

Parker v. W. L. C. & W. Co., 2 Black,

551, and cases cited; Clark v. Smith, 13 How. 194; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 How. 518.
Upon the proposition that a State may sue to redress injuries which are strictly analogous to those suffered by private
individuals, see United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S.
273; United States v. Am. Bell Tel. Co., 128 U. S. 315, 317;
Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 240; Kansas v. Colorado, 185
U. S. 125.
The violation of the Minnesota Anti-Consolidation and
Anti-Trust Act, rightfully construed, involves, as applied to
this controversy, the construction and the application of
Article IV of the Federal Constitution, as well as the commerce clause. For history of the clause, see Elliott's Debates, vol. 4, 123, vol. 5, 487, 504.
The gravamen of the charge in appellant's complaint is that
the defendants created a corporate device in New Jersey and
used it for the purpose and with the result that property rights
in Minnesota were affected, in violation of its laws. Our contention is that Article IV must be so construed as to make the
constitutional enactments of Minnesota effective throughout
the United States, so far as they apply to and affect property
rights within the State. Otherwise the ,policy and laws of any
State may be easily evaded.
The test of jurisdiction must necessarily be determined by a
correct answer to the question: What issues were fairly tendered for determination by the bill of complaint? If this be
not the test, the trial court, by misconstruing a statute, has
the power to eliminate from the record a jurisdictional question and deprive a party of the right of appeal.
The question of whether or not the case was properly removed fron the state to the Federal court, is in itself a Federal question. Railroad Company v. Koontz, 104 U. S. 15.
The determination of this question in itself gives the right of
appeal to this court direct.
The case having been appealed to this court, and this court,

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

53

Argument for Appellees.

on its own motion, having questioned the correctness 6f the

removal from the state to the Federal court, that establishes
the jurisdiction of this court on appeal over the entire case
should this court determine that the case was properly removed from the state to the Federal court. Oakley v. Goodnow, 118 U. S. 44; Scott v. Goodnow, 165 U. S. 58; Carter v.
Texas, 177 U. S. 442.
Mr. John G. Johnson, and Mr. George B. Young, with whom
Mr. M. D. Grover and Mr. C. W. Bunn were on the brief, for
appellees:
On the question of removal to and jurisdiction of the Circuit Court:
The cause was properly removed to the Circuit Court, and
upon such removal that court acquired jurisdiction of it as a
"suit arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States."

As to the test of such a suit as determined by Chief Justice
Marshall, see Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 822, in which it
was held that a cause may depend upon several questions of
fact and law. Some of these may depend on the construction
of a law of the United States, others on principles unconnected
with that law. If it be a sufficient foundation for jurisdiction
that the title or right set up by the party may be defeated by
one construction of the Constitution or laws of the United
States and sustained by the opposite construction provided the
facts necessary to support the action be made out, then all the
other questions must be decided as incidental to this which gives
that jurisdiction. Under this construction, the judicial power
of the United States extends effectively and beneficially to that
most important class of cases which depends on the character
of the cause. See also Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 379.
The following cases were decided under the act of 1875:
Gold-Washing Co. v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 199, 201; Tennessee v.
Davis, 100 U. S. 257, 264; Railroad Co. v. Mississippi, 102
U. S. 135, 140; Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 462; Kansas

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellees.

194 U. S.

Pacific v. Atchison R. R., 112 U. S. 414; Pacific Railroad Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1; Starin v. New York, 115 U. S. 2257; Southern Pacific R. Co. v. California, 118 U. S. 109, 112.
Metcalf v. Watertown, 128 U. S. 586; Shreveport v. Cole,
129 U. S 36, 41; Beck v. Perkins, 139 U. S. 628. In the
act of 1887-8, Congress used the same terms as in the act of
1875, in the same sense and reenacted them as thus construed.
And this court has never intimated that the criterion declared by Chief Justice Marshall and adopted and applied by
itself in so'many cases-was erroneous in itself or had been
rendered inapplicable to any class of cases by the amending
act of 1887-8. The following cases originated after the latter
act: Cooke v. Avery, 147 U. S. 375, 384; Colorado Central
Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S.138, 143; Blackburn v. Portland
Gold Mining Co., 175 U. S.571, 580; Patton v. Brady, 184 U. S.
608, 611; Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487, 494; Northern
PacificRy. Co. v. Soderberg, 188 U. S.526.

As it' is the proper function of the plaintiff's pleading to
state his own case and not that of the defendant, to give jurisdiction the Federal question must appear in plaintiff's statement of his own case, or of his own claim, and that is all that
is required.
In a few cases there are expressions-inadvertent, no doubt
-to the effect that the plaintiff's declaration must show that
he asserts a right under- the Constitution or some law of the
United States,-as if only such suits were suits arising under
the United States Constitution or laws. But this is directly
opposed to the cases already cited and others that will be cited.
If such a requirement were essential to jurisdiction, one
whose property was wrongfully seized by a United States
marshal or revenue collector, or whose property was taken
or his person or property injured by a Federal railway corporation, could have no redress in the Federal courts. His right
of property or of personal security is not derived from the
United States Constitution or laws, and when he asserts either

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

55

Argument for Appellees.

in a declaration he is not asserting a right under the United
States Constitution or laws.
For trespass against a marshal, see Bock v. Perkins, 139
U. S. 628; Sonnentheil v. Brewing Co., 172 U. S. 401. And
compare Walker v. Collins, 167 U. S. 57. Against an internal
revenue collector, see Venable v. Richards, 105 U. S. 636;
Harding v. Woodcock, 137 U. S. 43.
The bill presents Federal questions both in its aspect of a
bill by the State as a sovereign to enforce its local statutes,
and as-a landowner and shipper for relief under those statutes.
And these questions are the same whether the State sues as
sovereign or as property owner and shipper or in both 6f these
capacities.
For cases analogous to the one at bar, see South .Carolinav.
Coosaw Mining Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 804; 47 Fed. Rep. 225; 144
U. S. 550, cited with approval in In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564;
Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449; Hardingv. Woodcock, 137 U. S.
43; South Carolina v. Port Royal &c.. Ry. Co., 56 Fed. Rep.
333; People v. Rock Island &c. Ry. Co., 71 Fed. Rep. 753;
Minnesota v. Duluth &c. Ry. Co., 87 Fed. Rep. 497; Tennessee
v. Union Bank, 152 U. S. 454.
The cause was properly removed because of the plaintiff's
assertion of-right and claim of relief under the Constitution
and laws of the United States.
Besides the claims of the State under the full faith and
credit clause of Article IV of the Constitution, and its claim
under the swamp land granting acts of Congress, the State
asserts a right as a property owner and as engaged in interstate
commerce to carry on that commerce free from obstruction
by combinations in restraint of commerce or by monopolies of
such commerce-substantially the same right as that asserted
by the United States in the Debs Case, 158 U. S. 564, 583. A
citizen's right to carry on interstate commerce is a constitutional right. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 57; Reid v.
Colorado, 187 U. S. 137. And there can be no doubt that a.
State has the same right as a citizen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

The bill plainly asserts a right under the Constitution as well
as under the Anti-Trust Act, an(t this gives jurisdiction.
Whether the bill sufficiently alleges continuous or threatened
injury to that right to make a case for the relief prayed or for
any equitable relief is not a question of juris(iction, but a
question for the court to decide in the exercise of jurisdiction.
Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487, 493; Southern Pacific
R. Co. v. California, 118 U. S. 112; Hax v. Caspar, 31 Fed.
Rep. 499; Lowry v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 46 Fed. Rep. 83.
The Circuit Court in a case like this, upon acquiring jurisdiction of the cause by reason of the Federal questions presented by the bill on the constitutionality of the state legislation and on the claim of rights under the Constitution and
laws, has jurisdiction to decide, not only these Federal questions, but every question, Federal or non-Federal, that may
be presented by the bill or arise upon the other pleadings or
the evidence. Osborn v. Bank of United States, supra. It
may decide the cause on these non-Federal grounds, without
deciding or even considering the Federal questions presented
by the bill. And this is the proper course where the Federal
questions are constitutional questions. Santa Clara Co. v.
Southern Pacific R. R., 118 U. S. 394, 410. Its jurisdiction
remains the same although the plaintiff should fail to establish by proofs the facts alleged as showing a right under the
Constitution or laws or otherwise raising a Federal question,
for the jurisdiction is determined by the averments of the
bill. Southern Pacific R. Co. v. California, 118 U. S. 109, 112;
City Ry. Co. v. Citizens R. R. Co., 166 U. S. 537, 562.
And the fact that the Federal questions may receive little
or no attention in the argument in this court, or even in the
Circuit Court, does not affect the jurisdiction of either court.
It may pass by the questions argued and decide the Federal
questions.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By a statute of Minnesota passed March 9, 1874, it was pro-

MINNESOTA r. NORTHERN SECURITIFS CO.
194 U. S.

57

Opinion of the Court.

vided that no railroad corporation or the lessees, purchasers
or managers thereof should consolidate the stock, property or
franchises of such corporation with, or lease or purchase the
works or franchises of, or in any way control, any other railroad corporation owning or having under its control a parallel
or competing line; nor should any officer of such corporation
act as an officer of any other railroad corporation owning or
having the control of a parallel or competing line; and the
question whether railroads were parallel or competing lines
should, when demanded by the party complainant, be decided by a jury as in other civil issues. Laws, Minnesota, 1874,
p. 154.
A subsequent statute, passed March 3, 1881, provided that
any railroad corporation, either domestic or foreign, whether
organized under a general law or by virtue of a special charter,
might lease or purchase, or become owner of or control, or hold
the stock of, any other railroad corporation, when the respective railroads could be lawfully connected and operated together "so as to constitute one continuous main line, with or
without branches," § 1; and that any railroad corporation,
whose lines of railroad, within or without the State, might be
lawfully. connected and operated together to constitute one
continuous main line, so as to admit of the passage of trains
over them without break or interruption, "could consolidate
their stock and franchises so as to become one corporation."
§ 2. But by the same statute it was provided that no railroad
corporation should consolidate with, lease or purchase, or in
any way become owner of, or control any other railroad corporation, or any stock, franchises, rights of property thereof,
which owned or controlled" a parallel or competing line." § 3.
Laws of Minnesota, 1881, p. 109.
At a later date, 1899, the Legislature oJf Minnesota passed
another statute relating principally to such restraints upon
trade and commerce as interfered with competition among
those engaged therein. That statute contained these provisions:

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

"Sic. 1. Any contract, agreement, arrangement or conspiracy, or any combination in the form of a trust, or otherwise, hereafter entered into which is in restraint of trade or
commerce within this State, or in restraint of trade or commerce
between any of the people of this State and any of the people
of any other State or country, or which limits or tends to limit
of control the supply of any article, commodity or utility, or
the articles which enter into the manufacture of any article
[or]. utility, or which regulates, limits or controls or raises or
tends to regulate, limit, control or raise the market price of
any article, commodity or utility, or tends to limit or regulate
the production of any such article, commodity or utility, or
in any manner destroys, limits or interferes with open and free
competition in either the production, purchase or sale of any
commodity, article or utility, is hereby prohibited and delared to be unlawful.
"That when any corporation heretofore or hereafter created,
organized or existing under the laws of this State, whether
general or special, hereafter unites in any manner -with any
other corporation wheresoever created, or with any individual,
whereby such corporation surrenders or transfers, by sale or
otherwise, in whole, or in part, its franchise, rights or privileges
or the control or management of its business to any other
corporation or individual, or whereby the business or the
management or control of the business of such corporation is
limited, changed or in any manner affected, and the purpose
or effect of such union or combination is to limit, control or
destroy competition in the manufacture or sale of any article
or commodity, or is to limit or control the production of any
article or commodity, or is to control or fix the price or market
value of any article or commodity, or the price or market value
of the material entering into the production of any article or
commodity, or in case the purpose or effect of such union or
combination is to control or monopolize in any manner the
trade or commerce, or any part thereof, of this State or of the
several States, such union, combination, agreement, arrange-

MINNESOTA w. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

59

Opinion of the Court.

ment or contract is hereby prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
"SEC. 3. Any corporation heretofore or hereafter created,
organized or existing under the laws of this State, which shall
hereafter either directly or indirectly make any contract,
agreement or arrangement, or enter into any combination,
conspiracy or trust, as defined in section one of this act, shall,
in addition to the penalty prescribed in section. two of this
act, forfeit its charter, rights and franchises, and it shall thereafter be unlawful for such corporation to engage in business,
either as a corporation or as a part of any combination,
trust or monopoly, except as to the final disposition of its
property under the laws of this State.
"SEc. 6. That for the purpose of carrying out the provisions
of this act any citizen of this State may, and it is hereby declared to be the duty of the Attorney General, to institute,
in the name of the State, proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction against any person, partnership, association
or corporation who may be guilty of violating any of the provision* of section one of this act, for the purpose of imposing
the penalties imposed by this act, or securing the enforcement
of section three hereof." Gen. Laws, Minnesota, 1899, c. 359.
These statutes being in force, the State of Minnesota instituted this suit in one of its own courts against the Northern
Securities Company, a corporation of New Jersey; the Great
Northern Railway Company, a corporation of Minnesota; the
Northern Pacific Railway Company, a corporation of Wisconsin, which, having filed its articles of incorporation with
the Secretary of State of Minnesota, became subject to the laws
of that State relating to railroad corporations; and James J.
Hill, as President of the Northern Securities Company, and
individually.
What is the nature of -the case as disclosed by the complaint
filed in the state court?
The complaint allegedThat the Great Northern Ifailway Company and the North-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 TT. S.

ern Pacific Railway Company each owned or controlled and
maintained a system of railways connecting the Great Lakes
and the Pacific Ocean, their main roads constituting, substantially, parallel and competing lines;
That pursuant to an agreement between the defendant Hill
and other stockholders of the Great Northern Railway Company (representing a controlling interest in the stock of that
company) and J. Pierpont Morgan and other stockholders of
the Northern Pacific Railway Company (representing a controlling interest in the stock of that company) the Northern
Securities Company was incorporated solely as an instrumentality through which the stock, property and franchises
of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies
should be consolidated in effect, if not in form, and the management and control of their business affairs, respectively, including the fixing of rates and charges for the transportation
of passengers and freight over any and all the lines of railway
of each of those companies, as well within as without the State,
be vested in and controlled by the Securities Company, and
all competition in freight and passenger traffic between the
two systems of railway, within and without the State, to be
suppressed and removed; that by means of such arrangement
it was sought and intended to ignore, evade and violate the
laws of the State prohibiting as well the consolidation of the
stock, property or' franchise of parallel or competing lines of
railway therein, and the control or management thereof, as all
combinations in restraint of trade or commerce within the
State, and between the people of Minnesota and the people of
other States and countries; and, that if the Securities Company
was allowed to hold and control the stocks of the constituent
railway companies and to carry out the purpose and object of
its incorporators, as well as its own, "full faith and credit will
not be given to the public acts of this complainant and it will
be deprived of a further right guaranteed to it by the Constitution of the United States;"
That the said scheme had been consummated, and said two

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

61

Opinion of the Court.

railway systems were now under the absolute management and
control of the Securities Company, and "by reason thereof all
competition between said lines has been destroyed and a
monopoly in railway traffic in Minnesota (as well as without
said State) has been created, to the great and permanent and
irreparable damage of the State of Minnesota, and to the
people thereof, and in violation of its laws, and of the laws of
the United States in such case made and provided, viz: The
act, of Congress approved July 2, 1890, entitled 'An act to
protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and
monopolies;' " and
That the carrying out the above agreements and plan of
consolidation and monopoly, and in eVery step taken to consumnmate it, the officers and directors of each of said railway
companies were severally fully advised and consented thereto,
and, unless restrained by this court, the Securities Company
would continue to manage and control the business and affairs
of the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies, and to suppress all competition between them for
freight and passenger traffic, as well as to monopolize railway traffic in that State, to the irreparable damage of the
State and the people thereof.
The substantial relief asked was a decree declaring, among
other things, the illeged agreement and combination to be
unlawful, and all acts done and to be done in pursuance thereof
contrary to and in violation of the laws of Minnesota and of
the United States; prohibiting the Securities Company, its
agents and officers, from acquiring, receiving, holding, voting
or in any manner acting as the owner of any of the shares of
the capital stock of either the Northern Pacific or the Great
Northern Railway Company, or from exercising any management, direction or control over the constituent companies; and
enjoining those railway companies from recognizing or accepting the Northern Securities Company as the holder or
owner of any shares of the capital stock of either of 'those
companies, or from effecting any combination or agreement

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

that would disturb their independent integrity, management
and control, respectively, or that would directly or indirectly
destroy free and unlimited competition between them by interchange of traffic, poolings of earnings, division of property
or otherwise.
The Securities Company, appearing specially for that purpose, filed its petition for the removal of the case into the
Circuit Court of the United States upon the ground that the
suit was of a. civil nature, in equity, involved, exclusive of
costs, the sum of two thousand dollars, and was one arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States.

The state court a)proved the required statutory bond for
removal, and made an order, reciting that the case was removed to the Federal court.
The Northern Securities Cornpany, appearing specially for
that purpose, gave notice of a motion to have the service of
summons upon it vacated. Notice was also given of a like
motion as to the service of summons upon defendant Hill in
his capacity as President of that company. Subsequently,
the company, and defendant Hill as its President, gave notice
that the above notices were withdrawn, and they accordingly
entered their appearance in the cause.
At a later date the defendants severally answered, and the
State filed its replication to each answer. Proofs were taken,
and the cause having been heard, the bill was dismissed upon
the merits. 123 Fed. Rep. 692.
After the cause was argued here the parties were invited to
submit briefs upon the question whether the Circuit Court of
the United States could take Cognizan~e of the. case upon
removal from the state court. From the briefs filed in response tW that invitation it appeared that both sides deemed
the case a removable one and insist 'that this court should
consider the merits as disclosed by the pleadings and evidence.
But consent of -parties can never confer jurisdiction upon a
Federal court. If the record does not affirmatively show
jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, we must, upon our own

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

motion, so declare, and make such order as will prevent that
court from exercising an authority not conferred upon it by
statute. Mansfield C. & L. M. Railway Co. v. Swan, 111
U. S. 379, 382; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646; King Bridge
Co. v. Otoe County, 120 U. S. 225; Parker v. Ormsby, 141 U. S.
81; Mattingly v. Northwestern Va. R. R., 158 U. S. 53, 57;
Great Southern Fire Proof Hotel Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S. 449,
453; Continental National Bank v. Buford, 191 U. S. 119;
Defiance Water Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 184, 194.
We proceed, therefore, to inquire whether the Circuit Court
could take cognizance of this case upon rembval from the
state court and make a final decree upon the merits.
Of course, the Circuit Court could not take cognizance of
the case as one presenting a controversy between citizens of
different States; for the State of Minnesota is not a citizen
within the meaning of the Constitution or the acts of Congress.
Postal Tel. Cable Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482, 487.
But the first section of the Judiciary Act of 1887-8, 24 Stat.
552, c. 373; 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, provides, among other things,
that the Circuit Courts of the United States may take original
cognizance of all suits of a civil nature at law or in equity,
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United- States,
where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds in value
the sum of two thousand dollars. And the second section
provides for the removal from a state court of "any suit of a
civil nature, at law or in equity, arising under the Constitution
or laws of the United States

.

.

.

of which the Circuit

Courts of the United States are given original jurisdiction by
the preceding section."
In Tennessee v. Union & Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454, 461,
which involved the scope and meaning'of the acts of 1887-8,
in respect of cases arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, this court, after referring to section one, said:
"But the corresponding clause in section 2 allows removals
from a state court to be made only by defendants, and of suits
'of which the Circuit Courts of the United States are given

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

original jurisdiction by the preceding section,' thus limiting
the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States on
removal by the defendant under this section to such suits as
might have been brought in that court by the plaintiff under the

first section. 24 Stat. 553; 25 Stat. 434. The change is in
accordance with the general policy of these acts, manifest upon
their face, and often recognized by this court, to contract the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States." Mexican Nat. Railroad v. Davidson, 157 U. S. 201, 208; Metcalf v.
Watertown, 128 U. S. 586. And in Chappell v. Walerworth,

155 U. S. 102, 107, the court, referring to Tennessee v. Union
& Planters' Bank, said that it was there adjudged, upon full
consideration, that, under the act of 1887-8, "a case (not
depending on the citizenship of the parties, nor otherwise
specially provided for,) cannot be removed from a state court
into the Circuit Court of the United States, as one arisingunder
the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, unless that

appears by the plaintiff's statement of his own claim; and that,
if it (toes not so appear, the want cannot be supplied by any
statement in the petition for removal, or, in the subsequent
pleadings." To the same effect are Postal Tel. Cable Co. v.
Alabama, 155 U. S. 482, 487; United States v. American Bell
Tel. Co., 159 U. S. 548, 553; Oregon Short Line v. Skottowe, 162
U. S. 490, 494; Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. Cody, 166 U. S.
606, 608; Pratt v. Paris Gas Light & Coke Co., 168 U. S. 255,
258.; Walker v. Collins, 167 U. S. 57, 59; Arkansas v. Kansas &
Texas Coal Co., 183 U. S. 185; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Ann

Arbor Railroad Co., 178 U. S. 239. These cases establish,
beyond further question in this court, the rule that, under
existing statutes regulating the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States, a case. cannot be removed from a state court,
as one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, unless the plaintiff's complaint, bill or declaration
shows it to be a case Of that character. "If it does not appear
at the outset," this court has quite recently said, "that the
suit is one of which the Circuit Court at the time its jurisdiction

MINNESOTA v. NOIRTIIERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is invoked could properly take cognizance, the suit must be
dismissed." Third St. & Suburban Ry. v. Lewis, 173 U. S.
457, 460.
We must then inquire whether the complaint presents a ease
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, in
respect of which the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
could have been invoked by the State.
The real purpose of the suit was to annul the agreement and
suppress the combination alleged to exist between the defendant corporations upon the ground that such agreement and
combination were in violation, first, of the laws of Minnesota,
and, second, of the Anti-Trust Act of Congress. If relief had
been asked upon the ground alone that what the defendant
corporations had (lone and would, unless restrained, continue
to do, was forbidden by the statutes of Minnesota, the Circuit
Court of the United States could not have taken cognizance
.of the case; for confessedly such a controversy would not have
been one between citizens of different States, nor could such
a suit have been deemed one arising under the Constitution
or laws of the United States.
The contention, however, is that a case arising under the
laws of the United States was presented by the allegation in
the complaint that the combination and consolidation between
the Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies
and. their control of their affairs and operations by the Northern
Securities Company, were also in violation of the Anti-Trust
Act of Congress of July 2, 1890. An allegation in a complaint
filed in a Circuit Court of the United States may, in(dee(d, in a
sense, confer jurisdiction to determine whether the case is of
the class of which the court may properly take cognizanee for
purposes of a final decree on the merits. Newburyport Water
Co. v. Newburyport, 193 U. S.561, and Pacific Electric Ry. Co.
v. Los Angeles3, post, page 112, decided at present term. But if,
notwithstanding such an allegation, the court finds, at any
time, that the case does not really and substantially involve a
dispute or controversy within its jurisdiction then, by the
VOL. cxCiv--5

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

express command of the act of 1875, its duty is to prodeed no
further. That is manifest from the fifth section of that act,
which provides: " That if, in any suit commenced in a Circuit
Court or removed from a state court to a Circuit Court of the
United States, it shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit
Court, at any time after such suit has been brought or removed
thereto, that such suit does not really and sfibstantially involve
a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of
said Circuit Court, or that the parties to said suit have been
improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs
or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or
removable under this act, the said Circuit Court shall proceed
no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit or remand it to the
court from which it was removed as justice may require, and shall
make such order as to costs as shall be just." 18 Stat. 470.
That provision has not been superseded by any subsequent
legislation.
Does the present suit really and substantially involve a,
dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court? That is to say, could the suit, as disclosed by
the complaint, have been brought by the State originally in
that court? If it could not, then, under the act of 1887 -8 and
the adjudged cases, it should not have been removed from the
state court and should be remanded.
By the first section of the Anti-Trust Act every contract,
combination in the form of a trust or otherwise, or conspiracy,
in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States, is
declared to be illegal. The second section condemns the
monopolizing or attempting to monopolize, or combining or
conspiring to monopolize, any part of such trade or commerce.
By the third section, every contract, combination in the form
of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy in restraint of commerce
in any Territory of the United States or the District of Columbia, or in restraint of trade or commerce between any such
Territory and another, or between any such Territory or Territories and any State or States or the District of Columbia, or

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with any foreign States, or between the District of Columbia
and any State or States or foreign nations, is declared to be
illegal. A violation of the provisions of each section is made
a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars or by imprisonment not exceeding one year' or by
both said punishments, in the discretion of the court. Of
course, a criminal prosecution under the act must be in the
name of the United States and in a court of the United States-,
the District Attorney who conducts the prosecution being
subject to the direction of the Attorney General as to the
manner in which his duties shall be discharged. Rev. Stat.
362.
The fourth, sixth, seventh and. eighth sections of the act are
as follows:
"SEC. 4. The several Circuit Courts of the United States are
hereby invested with jurisdiction to prevent and restrain violations of this act; and it shall be the duty of the several District Attorneys of the United States, intheir respective districts, under the direction of the Attorney General, to institute
proceedings in equity to prevent and restrain such violations.
Such proceedings may be by way of petition setting forth the
case and praying that such violation shall be enjoined or otherwise prohibited. When the parties complained of shall have
been duly notified of such petition the court shall proceed, as
soon as may be, to the hearing and determination of the case;
and, pending such petition and before final decree, the court
may at any time make such temporary restraining order or
prohibition as shall be deemed just in the premises."
"SEC. 6 ,Any property owned under any contract or by any
combination, or pursuant to any conspiracy (and being the
subject thereof) mentioned in section one of this act, and being
in the course of transportation from one State to another, or to
a foreign country, shall be forfeited to the United States, and
may be seized and cohdemned by lik, proceedings as those
provided by law for the forfeiture, seizure and condemnation
of proplerty imported into the United States contrary to law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

"SEC. 7. Any person who shall be injured in his business or
property by any other person or corporation by reason of anything forbidden or declared to be unlawful by this act may sue
therefor in any Circuit Court of the United States in the district in which the defendant resides or is found, without respect
to the amount in controversy, and shall recover threefold the
damages by him sustained, and the costs of suit, including a
reasonable attorney's fee.
"SEc. 8. That the word 'person,' or 'persons
terever used
in this act, shall be deemed to include corporations and associations existing under or authorized by the laws of either the
United States, the laws of any of the Territories, the laws of
any State or the laws of any foreign country." 26 Stat. 209.
It thus appears that the act specifies four modes in which
effect may be given to its provisions. It is clear that the present suit does not belong to either of those classes. It is not a
criminal proceeding, (§§ 1, 2, 3,) nor a suit in equity in the name
of the United States to restrain violations of the Anti-Trust
Act, (§ 4,) nor a proceeding in the name of the United States
for the forfeiture of property being in thq course of transportation, (§ 6,) nor an action by any person or corporation for the
recovery of threefold damages for injury done to business or
property by some other person or corporation. (§§ 7, 8.)
But it is said that as the act of Congress was for the benefit
of all the States and all the people, this case is to be deemed
one arising under the laws of the United States, and, therefore,
cognizable by the Circuit Court, because one of the objects of
the State of Minnesota by its suit is to protect c( in of its
proprietary interests, which, it is alleged, would be injured by
violations, on the part of the defendants, of the act of Congress. Let us see what, in that view, is the case as presented
by the complaint.
The complaint alleged that the State is the owner of more
than three million' acres of land, of the value of more than
fifteen millions of dollars, obtained, by donation, from the
United States, and that "the value of said lands, and the

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

salability thereof, depends, in very large measure, upon having
free, uninterrupted and open competition in passenger and
freight rates over the lines of railway owned and operated by
said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies."
The bill also alleges "that many of said lands are vacant and
unsettled and located in regions not at present reached by
railway lines, and depend for settlement upon the construction
of line- in the future; that it has heretofore been the practice
of said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway companies, respectively, to extend spur, lines into territory adjacent to each of said roads, as well as into new territory, for the
purpose of developing such territory, as well as to obtain traffic
therefrom; that such new lines have been built in the past very
largely by reason of the rivalry heretofore existing between
said companies for existing, as well as new, business; that under
the consolidation and unity of control hereinafter set forth
such rivalry will cease, and many of the lands now owned by
the State of Minnesota will not be reached by railroads for
years to come, if at all, owing to such combination and consolidation removing all rivalry and competition between said
companies; that the settlement and occupation of said lands
will add very much to their value, and such occupation will
depend entirely upon the accessibility of railway lines and
transportation facilities for marketing the products raised
thereon; that if said lands are sold and become occupied, they
will add very largely to the taxable value of the property of the
State, and that said lands cannot be so sold, or the income of
the State increased thereby, without the construction of railroad lines to or adjacent to the same."
It was further alleged that the State is the owner of, and has
maintained at large expense, a state university, hospitals foi
the insane, normal sehools for teachers, a training school for
boys and girls, schools for deaf, dumb, blind and feeble-minded
persons, a state school for indigent and homeless children, and
a state penitentiary; that a great portion of the supplies of
every kind for such institutions must, of necessity, be :,ipped

OCTOBER TERM, 190.
Opinion of the Court.

1.94 U. S.

over the different lines of railway owned and operated by the
Northern Pacific and Great Northern Railway companies;
that the amount of taxes which the state must collect, and the
successful maintenance of its public institutions, as well as the
performance of its governmental functions and affairs, depend
largely upon the value 'of the real and personal property situated within the State and the general prosperity and business
success of its citizens; and that such prosperity -and business
depend very largely upon maintaining in the State. free, open
and unrestricted competition between the railway lines of
tlose two companies.
The injury on account of which the present'suit was brought
is at most only remote and indirect; such an injury as would
come alike, -although in different degrees, to every individual
owner of property in a State by reason of the suppression, in
violation of the act of Congress, of free competition between
ifiterstate carriers engaged, in business in such State" not such
a direct, actual injury as that provided for in the seventh section of the statute. If Minnesota may, by an original suit,
in its name, invoke the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, because 'alone of the alleged remote and 'indirect injury to its
proprietary interests arising from the mere absence of free
competition in trade and commerce as carried on by interstate
carriers within its limits, then every State upon like grounds
may maintain, in its name, in a Circuit Court' of the United
States, a suit against interstate carriers engaged in business
within their respective limits. Further, under that view, every
individual owner of property in a State may, upon like general
grounds, by an original suit, irrespective of any direct or special
injury to him, invoke the original jurisdiction of a Circuit
Court of the United States, to restrain and prevent violations
of the Anti-Trust Act of Congress. We do not think that
Congress contemplated any such 'methods for the enforcement
of th6 Anti'-Trust Act. We cannot suppose it was intended
that the enforcement of the act should depend in any degree
,upon original suits in equity instituted by the States or by

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the'Court.

individuals to prevent violations of its provisions. On the
contrary, taking all the sections of that act together, we think
that its intention was to limit direct proceedings in 'equity to
prevent and restrain such violations of the Anti-Trust, Act
as cause. injury to the general public, or to all. alike, merely
from the suppression of competition in trade and commerce
among the several States and with foreign nations, to those
instituted in the name of the United States, under the fourth
section of the act, by District Attorneys of the United 8'tatc,3,
acting under the direction of the Attorney General; thus
securing the enforcement of the act, so far as direct proceedings in equity are concerned, according to some uniform pla,
operative throughout the entire country. Possibly the t.hought
of Congress was that by such a limitation upon suits in equity
of a general nature to restrain violations of the act, irrespective
of any direct-injury sustained by particular persons or orporations, interstate and international trade and commerce and
those carrying on such trade and commerce, as well as the
general business of the country, would not be needlessly dis-.
turbed by suits brought, on all sides and in every direetio-n, in
accomplish improper or speculative purposes. At any rate,
the interpretation we have given of the act is a more reasonable
one. It is a safe and conservative interpretstion, in view as
well of the broad and exclusive power of Congress over interstate and international commerce as of the fact that, so far as
such commerce is concerned, Congress has prescribed a speeific
mode for.preventing restraints upon it, namely, suits in equity
under the direction of the Attorney General. Of the preseat
suit the Attorney General has no control, and is without any
responsibility for the manner in which it is conducted, although,
in its essential features, it is just such a suit as would be brought
by -his direction when proceeding under the fourth section o[
the Anti-Trust Act.
The State presents still another view of the question of jurisdiction. Its complaint alleges that if the Securities Cornpany
be allowed to hold and control the stocks of the Great Northern

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

and Northern Pacific Railway companies and to carry out the
purpose and object of its incorporation, full faith arid credit
will not be given to the public acts of the State. Thi.s, it is
contended, presents a case arising under Article IV of the
Constitution, providing that "full faith and credit shall be
given in each State to the public acts, records and judicial
proceedings of every other State."' It is said by the state's
counsel.that the "gravamen of the charge in appellant's complaint is that the defendants created a corponation device in
New Jersey and used it for the purpose and with the result that
property rights in Minnesota were affected, in violation of its
laws. Our contention is that Article IV must be so construed
as to make the constitutional enactment of Minnesota effective
throughout the United States, so far as they apply to and
affect property rights within the State. Otherwise the policy
and laws of any State may be easily evaded." We (1o not
think-that the clause of the Constitution above quoted has any
bearing whatever upon the question under consideratioi.
It
only prescribes a rule by which courts, Federal and state, arc
to be guided when a question arises in the progress of a pending
suit as to the faith and credit to be given by the court to the
publia acts, records and judicial proceedings of a State other
than that in which the court is sitting. Even if it be assumed
that the word "acts" includes "statutes," the clause has nothing to do with the conduct of individuals or corporations; and
to invoke the rule which it prescribes does not make a case
arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
What was the duty of the Circuit Court when it ascertained
that the suit was not one of which it could take cognizance?
The answer is indicated by the clause of the Judiciary Act of
March 3, 1875, to which we have adverted.
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that the suit does
not-to use the words of the act of 1875-really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy within the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court for the purposes of a final decree. Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. R. Co., 178 U. S. 239, 243.

BEAVERS v. HENKEL.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

That being the case, the Circuit Court, following the mandate
of the statute, should not have proceeded therein, but should
have remanded the cause to the state court.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case is sent
back with directions that it be remanded to the state court.

BEAVERS v. HENKEL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF- THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 535. Argued March 9, 10, 1904.-Decided April 11, 1904.

Statutory provisions must be interpreted in the light of all that may be done
under them. In all controversies, civil and criminal, between the Government and an individual, the latter is entitled to reasonable protection.
The Fifth Amendment is satisfied by one inquiry and adjudication, and an
indictment found by the proper grand jury should be accepted anywhere within the United States as at least prima Jacie evidence of probable
cause and sufficient basis for removal from the district where the person
arrested is found to the district where the indictment was found.
The place where such inquiry must be had, and the decision of the grand jury
obtained, is the locality in which by the Constitution and laws the final
trial must be had.
ON July 23, 1903, a grand jury of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of New York found and
returned an indictment under section 1781, Rev. Stat., charging George W. Beavers, an officer of the government of the
United States, with having received money for procuring a
contract with the government for the Edward J. Brandt-Dent
'Company. A warrant for the arrest of the official was issued
to the marshal of the district and returned "not found."
Thereupon a complaint supported by affidavit was filed in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, alleging the finding of the indictment, the issue

