OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

their movements were made upon telegraphic orders issued
by the train dispatcher upon information furnished by telegraph to the train dispatcher by its station agents and operators
along the line of the railroad." To apply the transitory risk
theory to this condition of affairs it seems to me is to say that
the method permanently adopted by the company for running
the class of trains in question is to be governed, not by that
fact, but by the fictitious assumption that the trains were
temporarily operated by wire alone. The consequence of the
application of the doctrine of transitory risk to the condition
of affairs shown in the certificate is, as I understand it, but to
say that a railroad which chooses to operate its trains solely
through orders of the train dispatcher is a licensed wrongdoer
as respects its employ~s, since thereby it is exempt from those
rules of positive duty which the law would otherwise impose.
The result is, besides, to decide that if a railroad adopts a
regular schedule the law casts a positiveduty on it as regards
its employ6s, but that it may escape all such duty on the
theory of transitory risk, if only the road elects to adopt no
schedule and to operate its trains solely by telegraph.
For the foregoing reasons I dissent.

I am authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA concur in this dissent.

FILHIOL v. TORNEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN

DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 252. Submitted April 25, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

Where, in an ejectment action, the plaintiffs' statement of their right to the
possession of the land discloses no case within the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of the United States, that jurisdiction cannot be estab-.
lished by allegations as to the defence which the defendant may make
or the circumstances under which he took possession.

FILHIOL v. TORNEY.
194 U. S.

-Opinion of the Court.

THis was an action of ejectment commenced in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkan'sas, based upon the same title which was presented in
Muse v. Arlington Hotel Company, 168 U. S. 430, and Filhiol
v. Maurice, 185 U. S. 108. A demurrer to the complaint was
sustained on the ground of want of jurisdiction and a judgment entered for the defendant, and thereupon the case was
brought directly to this court on writ of error.
Mr. Branch K. Miller, Mr. William F. Vilas, Mr. James K.
Jones and Mr. J. H. McGowan for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Solicitor General Hoyt and Mr. Marsden C. Burch and
Mr. Robert A. Howard, Special Assistants to the Attorney
General, for defendants in error.
Mn. JUSTcE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The only question decided by the Circuit Court was one of
jurisdiction, but the record contains no certificate of that
question nor anything Which can be considered an equivalent
thereto. The demurrer filed by the defendant stted three
grounds therefor: First, a want of jurisdiction over the present
defendant; second, a like want of jurisdiction over the subject
matter of the action; and, third, that the complaint did not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The
judgment was that the "demurrer to the jurisdiction
be sustained" and the complaint dismissed. In the opinion
of the court only the question of jurisdiction over the subject
matter was discussed. The assignment of errors contains nine
specifications, some going to the matter of jurisdiction; others,
such as the fifth, eighth and ninth, running to the merits, the
ninth being general and in this language: "The court erred in
divers other matters manifest upon the face of the record of
said action." The petition for a writ of error alleged that the
plaintiffs, "being aggrieved by the judgment made and en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

tered in the above entitled cause on the 12th day of January,
1903, and the several rulings of the court herein, file herewith
their assignment of errors in said cause and pray a writ of error
to the end that the rulings and judgment of said court in said
cause may be reversed by the Supreme Court of the Unitqd
States." This petition was allowed generally and without
any limitation or specification. The necessity of a certificate
was affirmed in Maynard v. Hecht, 151 U. S. 324, and what
may be considered a sufficient certificate or taken as equivalent thereto considered in In re Lehigh Mining & Manufacturing Campany, 156 U. S, 322; Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 168;
The Bayonne, 159 U. S. 687; Interior Construction Company v.
Gibney, 160 U. S. 217; Van Wagenen v. Sewall, 160 U. S. 369;
Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499; Smith v. McKay, 161
U. S. 355. The case of Chappell v. United States, supra, is
closely*in point. In that case Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for
the court, after referring to tests laid down in prior cases,
observed (p. 508):
"The record in the present case falls far short of satisfying
any such test. The defendant, among many other defences,
and in various forms, objected to the jurisdiction of the District Court, because the act of Congress under which the proceedings were instituted was unconstitutional, because the
proceedings were not according to. the laws of the
United
States, and because they should have been had in a court of
the State of Maryland; and the court, overruling or disregarding all the objections, whether to its jurisdiction over the case,
or to the merits or the form of the proceedings, entered final
judgment for the petitioners. There is no formal certificate
of any question of jurisdiction; the allowance of the writ of
error is general, and not expressly limited to such a question;
and the petition for the writ, after mentioning all the proceedings in detail, asks for a review of all the 'rulings, judgments
and orders' of the court 'upon the question of jurisdiction
raised in said exceptions, pleas and demurrers, and the other
papers on file in this cause,' without defining or indicating any

FILIJOL v. TORNEY.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

specific question of jurisdiction. Here, certainly, is no such
clear, full and separate statement of a definite question of
jurisdiction as will supply the want of a formal certificate
under the first clause of the statute."
There being no sufficient certificate of jurisdiction, counsel
for plaintiffs in error rely upon the proposition that there is
involved in the case the application of the Constitution of the
United States, and also the meaning and force of the treaty
of October 21, 1803, between the United States and the Republic of France, and that, therefore, the case was rightfully
brought directly to this court.
"But no question of jurisdiction having been separately
certified or specified, and the writ of error having been allowed
without restriction or qualification, this court, under the other
clause of the statute, above cited, has appellate jurisdiction of
this case as one in which the constitutionality-of a law of the
United States was drawn in question." Chappell v. United
States, supra, 509. See also Giles v. Harris,189 U. S. 475, 486.
The title upon which the plaintiffs rest was a grant made
on February 22, 1788, by the governor general, in the name
of the King of Spain, then the sovereign of the territory, and,
as contended, protected by the treaty of 1803, which pro-vided that the inhabitants of the province ceded should,
among other things, "be maintained and protected in the
free enjoyment of their . . . property." It was alleged
that such provision, by a just construction of the treaty,
extended to the property of the original grantee and descended
from him to his heirs, but that the United States, denying that
plaintiffs were entitled to be maintained and protected in the
enjoyment of their said property by any construction of the
treaty, asserted title to the land, expelled the plaintiffs from
possession and delivered it over to the defendant in this action,
and that said defendant is in possession by direction of the
United States, in pursuance of the unlawful and unjust possession so given him, and without any other right or claim of
right than as an officer of the United States. Plaintiffs also

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

averred that they were lawfully possessed of the land by inheritance from their ancestor, and that the United States,
without process of law and without legal right so to do, took
the same for public use without any compensation, and established defendant in possession thereof wrongfully and unjustly. By virtue of these allegations they contend that there
is involved in this case the construction of a treaty, as well as
the application of the Constitution of the United States, which
forbids the taking of private property for public use without
just compensation.
But it is well settled that in ejectment the plaintiffs must
rest on their own title. If that title fails it is immaterial what
wrong the defendant may have committed. There is nothing
in the statutes of Arkansas which changes this.rule. The
averments of an infraction by the United States of its obligations under the treaty or an unlawful act in taking possession
without compensation in defiance of the Constitution do not
add to the plaintiffs' title. So far as the cause of action is
concerned these averments are superfluous. Any action by
the government is matter of defence and may never be presented by the defendant. He has a right to go to trial on the
sufficiency of the title presented by the plaintiffs, and need
neither plead nor prove the rightfulness of his possession by
whomsoever it may have been given to him until they have
shown that they have a title to the premises.
"The right of the plaintiff to sue cannot depend on the
defence which the defendant may choose to set up. His right
to sue is anterior to that defence, and must depend on the
state of things when the action is brought." Osborn v. Bank,
9 Wheat. 738, 824.
"Ry the settled law of this court, as appears from the decisions above cited, a suggestion of one party, that the other
will or may set up a claim under the Constitution or laws of
the United States, does not make the suit one arising under
that Constitution or those laws." Tennessee v. Union &
Planters' Bank et al., 152 U. S. 454, 464.

FISCHER v. ST. LOUIS.
194 U. S.

Syllabus.

See also Chappel v. Waterworth, 155 U. S. 102; Walker v.
Collins, 167 U. S. 57; Sawyer v. Kochersperger, 170 U. S. 303,
in which this court said.
"The case was removed into the Circuit Court of the United

States, but improvidently, as it falls within the rule laid down
in Tennessee v. Banks, 152 U. S. 454, notwiths4nding the
petition stated that defendants declined to pay on the ground
that' the law imposing the taxes was in violation of the Constitution of the United States." Florida Central &c. Railroad
v. Bell, 176 U. S. 321, 329; Arkansas v. Kansas & Texas Coal
Company, 183 U. S. 185.
We have not considered whether the averments distinctively
made of the plaintiffs' title were sufficient to vest jurisdiction
in the Circuit Court, for that question was settled against the
plaintiffs by the decision in Filhiol v. Maurice, supra.
As the plaintiffs' statement of their right to the possession
of this land disclosed no case within the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, that jurisdiction was not established by allegations as to the defence which the defendant might make or the
circumstances under which he took possession.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

FISCHER v. ST. LOUIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 204. Argued April 12, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

It is within the power of a municipality when authorized by the law of the
State, to make ,a general police regulation subject to exceptions, and to
delegate the discretion of granting the exceptions to a municipal board
or officer and the fact that some may be favored and some not, does not,
if the ordinance is otherwise constitutional, deny those who are not
favored the equal protection of the law.
The ordinance of the city of St. Louis, prohibiting the erection of any dairy
or cow stable within the city limits without permission from the municipal
assembly and providing for permission to be given by such assembly, is

