OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.,

BATES & GUILD CO. v. PAYNE.
APPEAL

FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 373. Argued March 10, 1904.-Decided April 11, 1904.

Where the decision of questions of fact is committed by Congress to the,
judgment and discretion of the head of a department, his decision thereon
isconclusive;, and even upon mixed questions of law and fact, or of law
alone, his action will carry with it a strong presumption of its correctness,
and the courts will- not ordinarily review it, although they have the power,
and will occasionally exercise the right of so doing.
As to what is second class mail matter, Houghlon v: Payne, p. 88, followed.
THIS was a bill to compel the recognition by the Postmaster
General of the right of the plaintiff corporation to have a
periodical publication, known as "Masters in Music," received
and transmitted through the mails as matter of the second
class, and to enjoin defendant from enforcing an order, theretofore made by him, aenying it entry as such. This case took
the same course as the preceding ones. 31 Wash. L. Rep. 395.

Mr. William S. Hall and Mr. Holmes Conrad for appellant.
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Henry H. Glassie, special
assistants to the Attorney General, for the appellee%'
MR. JUSTICE BROWN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The first number of Masters in Music was issued in January,
190,3, and an application was immediately made to the Postmaster General for its admission to the mails as second class
mail matter. The application was denied, and plaintiff im-,
mediately, and before the issue of another number, filed this
bill. The publication purports to be a "monthly magazine,"
I This case was argued simultaneously with, and on the same briefs as,
Houghton v. Payne.

See p. 88, ante, for abstracts of arguments:

BATES & GUILD CO. v. PAYINE.
194 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

salable at twenty cents per number, and to subscribers at
two dollars a year. The first number is devoted tothe works,
of Mozart and contains a portrait, a biography of four pages,
an essay of ten pages upon his art and thirty-two pages of his
music. The preliminary page contained a .notice to the effect
that "Masters in Music will be unlike any other musical magazine. Each monthly issue, complete in itself, will be devoted
to one of the world's great. musicians, giving thirty-two pages
of engraved piano music, which will comprise those compositions or movements that represent the composer at his best,
with editorial notes suggesting the proper interpretation; a
beautiful frontispiece portrait, a life, and estimates of his
genius and place in art, chosen froni the writings of the most
eminent musical critics. The text will thus constitute an:
interesting and authoritative monthly lesson in musical history; its selections of music will form a library of the world's
The an...
musical masterpieces, and all at slight cost .
which
will.
February
issue,
the
contents
of
the
nouncement of
treat of Chopin, will be found on another page."
The Postmaster :General placed his refusal to allow this.
magazine to be transmitted as second class mail matter upon
the ground that each number was complete in itself; had no;
connection with other numbers save in the circumstance that
they all treated of masters in music, and that these issues were
in fact sheet music disguised as a periodical, and should be
classified 'as third class mail matter.
Conceding the principle established in the two cases just
decided to be that the fact that books published 'at stated intervals and in consecutive numbers do not thereby become,
periodicals, even though in other respects they conform to the
requirements of section 14, cases may still aris6 where the
classification of a certain publication may be one of doubt.
Such is this case. But we think that, although the question
is largely one of law, determined by a comparison of the exhibit.
with the statute, there is some discretion left in the Postmaster
General with respect tJ the classification of such publications

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 V. S.

as mail matter, and that the exercise of such discretion ought
not to be interfered with unless the court be clearly of opinion
that it was wrong. The Postmaster General is charged with
the duty of examining these publications and of determining
to which class of mail matter they properly belong; and we
think his decision should not be made the subject of judicial
investigation in every case where one of the parties thereto is
dissatisfied. The consequence of a different rule would be that
the court might be flooded by appeals of this kind to review
the decision of the Postmaster General in every individual instance. - In the case of American School of Magnetic Healing v.
McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94, 104, the Post Office authorities were
held to have acted beyond their authority in rejecting all correspondence which the plaintiff upon the subject of the treatment of diseases by mental action; but while it was said in that
case that the question involved was a legal one, it was intimated
that something must be left to the discretion of the Postmaster
General.
It has long been the settled practice of this court in land
cases to treat the findings of the Land Department upon questions of fact as conclusive, although such proceedings involve,
to a certain extent, the exercise of judicial power. As was said
in Burfenning v. Chicago, St. Paul &c. R.R., 163 U. S. 321, 323:
"Whether, for instance, a,certain tract is swamp land or not,
saline land or not, mineral land or not, presents a question of
fact not resting on record, dependent on oral testimony; and
it cannot be doubted that the decision of the Land Department, one way or the other, in reference to these questions is
conclusive' and not open to relitigation in the courts, except
in those cases of fraud, etc., which permit any determination
to be reexamined." (Citing cases.) See also Johnson v. Drew,
171 U. S. 93; Gardnerv. Bonestell, 180 U. S. 362.
But there is another class of cases in which the rule is somewhat differently, and perhaps more broadly, stated, and that
is, that where Congress has committed to the head of a department certain duties requiring the exercise of judgment

BATES & GUILD CO. v. PAYNE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and discretion, his action thereon, whether it'
involve questions
of law or fact, will not be reviewed by the courts,
unless he has
exceeded his authority or this court should be of opinion that
his action was clearly wrong. In the early case of Decatur v.
Paulding, 14 Pet. 497, it was said that the official duties of the
head of an executive department, whether imposed by act of
Congress or resohftion, are not mere ministerial duties; and,
as was said by this court in the recent case of Riverside Oil Co.
v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316, 324: "Whether he decided right or
wrong is not the question. Having jurisdiction to decide at
all, he had necessarily jurisdiction, and it was his duty to
decide as he thought the law was, and the courts have no power
whatever under those circumstances to review his determination by mandamus or injunction."
In ilarquez v. Frisbic, 101 U. S. 473, which was a bill in
equity to review the decision of the Land Department in a
prernption case, Mr. Justice Miller remarked (p. 476): "This
means, and it is a sound principle, that where there is a mixed
question of law and fact, and the court cannot so separate it.
as to show clearly where the mistake of law is, the decision of
the tribunal to which the law had confided the matter is conelusive." In Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 347, it*was held that
the court would no more ihterfere by injunction than by mandamus to control the action of the head of a department; and in
United States ex rel. Dunlap v. Black, 128 U. S.40, it was said
that the courts will not interfere by mandamus with the executive officers of the Government in the exercise of their ordinary
official duties, even where those duties require an interpretation
of the law, no appellat( power being given them for that purpose. See also Redfield v. lVindom, 137 U. S. 636.
The rule upon this subject may be summarized as follows:
That where the decision of questions of fact is committed by

Congress to the judgment and discretion of the head of a department, his decision thereon is conclusive;, and that even
upon mixed questions of la. and fact, or of kfw alone, his action
will carry with it a strong presumption of its correctness, and

4110

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
MR., JUSTIC

HARLAN and The CHIEF JUSTIC E, dissenting. 194 U. S.

the covrts iwill not ordinarily review it, although they may
have the' power, and will occasionally exercise the right of so
doing.
Upon this principle, and because we thought the question
involved one of law rather than of fact, and one of great general
importance, we have reviewed the action of the Postmaster
General in holding serial novels to be books rather than periodicals; but it is not intended to intimate that in every case hereafter arising the question whether a certain publication shall
be considered a book or a periodical shall be- reviewed by this
court. In such case the decision of the Post Office Department, rendered in the exercise of a reasonable discretion, will
be treated as conclusive.
In the case of Masters in Music the question really is whether
a pamphlet, complete in itself, treating of the works of a single
master, with a greater part of the pamphlet devoted to specimens of his genius, shall be controlled by the cover, which declared that these numbers will be issued monthly, at, a certain
subscription price per year. Although a comparison of the
exhibit with the statute may raise only a question of law, ihe
action of the Postmaster General may have- been, to a certain,
extent, guided by extraneous information obtained by him, so
that the question involved ivould not be found merely a question of law, but a mixed question of law and fact. While, as
already observed, the question is one of doubt, we think the
decision of the Postmaster General, who is vested by Congress
with the power to exercise his judgment and discretion in the
matter, should be accepted as final. The decree of the Court
of Appeals is therefore
Affirmed.
Mn. JUSTICE HARLAN (with whom concurred The CHIEF
JUSTICE) dissenting.
The Chief Justice and myself are of opinion that the publication here in question'is second class mailable matter, and can-

BATES & GUILD CO. v,. PAYNE.
t94 U. S. MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN and The CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

not concur in the opinion an( judgment of the court. Our
reasons for dissenting are stated in the opinion filed by us in
Houghton v. Payne, just decided.
But there are some things in the opinion of the court in this
case to which we shall advert. It is said that the case is one of
doubt. Now, it was admitted at the bar by the Government
that the publication known as "Masters in Music" would be
carried in the mails as second class matter if the question be
decided in accordance with the construction placed upon the
statute by the Department for more than. sixteen years continuously prior to the present ruling of the Department. We
had supposed it to be firmly. settled that the established practice of an Executive Department charged with the execution
of a statute will be respected and followed--especially if it has
been long continued-unless such practice rests upon a construction of the statute which is clearly and obviously wrong.
In United States v. Philbrick, 120 U. S. 52, 59, which involved
the construction placed by an Executive Department upon an
act of Congress, this court said: "Since it is not clear that that
construction was erroneous, it ought not now to be overturned." So in United States v. Healey, 160 U. S. 136, 145,
the court said that it would accept the uniform interpretation
by the Interior Department of an act relating to the public
lands, "as the true one, if, upon examining the statute, we
found its meancing to be at all doubtful or obscure." The
authorities to that effect are numerous. Edwards' Lessee v.
Darby,'12 Wheat. 206; Hahn v, United States, 107 U. S. 402;
United States v. Graiam, 110 U. S.219; Brown v. United States,
113 U. S.568; United Stats v. Philbrik-, 120 U. S.52; United
States v. Johnson, 124 U. S. 236; United Stdtes v. Hill, 120
U. S.169; United States v. Pinnell, 185 U. S. 236; United States
v. Ala. G. S. R. R. Co., 142 U. S. 615; Hewitt v. Schultz, 180
U. S. 139, 157. Some of them are cite(d in the opinion of the
court in Houghton v. Payne. The rule of construction which
this court has recognized for more than three-quarters of a
century is now overthrown. For, it is adjudged that the prac.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

tice of the Post Office Department, covering a period of sixteen
years and more, need not be regarded in this case, although the
construction of the statute in question is admitted to be doubtful. We cannot give our assent to this view.

PACIFIC ELECTRIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. LOS ANGELES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
N0o.175. Argued March 7, 1904.-Decided April 11, 1904.
'he jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is established when it is shown that
complainant had, or claimed to have a contract with a State or municipality which the latter had attempted to impair, and so long as the claim
is apparently made in good faith and is not frivolous, the case can be
heard, and decided on the merits.
Whether presented on motion to dismiss or on demurrer the question of
jurisdiction depends primarily on the allegations of the bill and not upon
the facts as they may subsequently turn out.
Under the act of California of Match 11, 1901, a street railway franchise can
only be granted in case of failure of the successful bidder to comply with
the provisions of the act as to payment within the prescribed period to
the next highest bidder at the original competitive opening of bids, and
an ordinance attempting to grant the franchise to another is void and the
grantee acquires no rights thereunder, nor is such an ordinance a contract within the meaning of the impairment of contract clause of the
Federal Constitution.

is an appeal directly from the ,Circuit Court.

The
appellant asserts rights under the Constitution of the United
States, in that a contract alleged to exist between it and the
council of the city of Los Angeles, granting appellant a franchise under the statute hereinafter mentioned, was impaired
by the action of the council. Also that the property of appellant was taken without due process of law.
THIS

