OCTOBER TERM, 190-1.
194 U. S.

Syllabus.

competition which couldlbe devised there would be danger of
illegal combinations, and that the sLfeguard against them
must be the vigilance of the munieil)al officers, anl, may be,
that of competing ilnterests. But be this as it may, the defects
of the statute cannot control its pl:ain letter. Obviously to
give them such effect woul(d be to amend the statute, not to
interpret it. And we think section 5 is plain, and was intended
to express as an alternative of a bid not fulfilled the acceptance
of one already made, not one to be made. We are fortified in
this view by section 7 of the act. That sectiom provides that
the grantee of the franchise shall file a bond to fulfill the terms
and conditions of such franchise, and also provides that if such
bond be not filed "the award of such franchise shall be set
asidb and the same may be granted to the next lowest bidder,
or again offered for sale," in the discretion of the governing
body. In other words, when there is to be further competition
it is explicitly provided for.
It follows that appellant's bid was not the next highest to
that of Murray and the order of the council selling and granting
appellant the franchise was void, and the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing the bill is
Affirmed.

SLATER v. MEXICAN

NATIONAL
PANY.

RAILROAD COM-

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 162.

Argued February 29, 1904.-Decided April 11, 1904.

A common law action cannot be maintained in a Circuit Court of the United
States against a foreign railroad corporation for the wrongful killing in
a foreign country of one upon whomi the plaintiffs were dependent where
the right of recovery given by the foreigrn country is so dissimilar to that

given by the law of the State in which the action is brought as to be incapablc of enforcement in such State.

SLATER v. MEXICAN NATIONAL R. R. CO.
194 U. S.

121

Argument for Petitioners.

Damages in the nature of alimony and pensions during necessity or until
marriage given by the Mexican law to the wife and children of one wrongfully killed in Mexico by a railroad company cannot be commuted into
a lump sum by a jury in a common law action brought in a Circuit Court
of the United States.
Where foreign statutes are the basis of a claim for damages in an action in
the Circuit Court of the United States parol evidence of a properly qualified
expert is admissible as to the construction of such statutes upon any matter open to reasonable doubt, notwitistanding certified copies of such
statutes and agreed translations thereof are already in evidence.

THE lacts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. C. A. Keller, Mr. Mason Williams and Mr. E. Atlee
for petitioners submitted:
Under the laws of Mexico, a clearly defined right of action
exists for damages arising from injuries resulting in the death
of a person, against the person whose negligence was the proximate cause of such injuries, there being no contributory negligence on the part of the person injured; such action lies in favor
of the, survivingwife and minor children of herself and her husband,, whose death so resulted. Arts. 72, 97, Constitution of
Mexico; Arts. 4, 5, 6, 11, 26, 301, 304-331, inc., 363-366 inc.;
Penal Code of Mexico, Arts. 9, 20, 21, 205-225, 1095; Federal
Civil Code of Mexico; Art. I, Act of Congress (Mexico), December 15, 1881; Arts. 52, 53, 99, 184, 208 of the Mexican
Regulations for construction, maintenance and operation of
railroads; Arts. 205-225 of ch. IV, Bk. 1, Title V, of the.Civil
Code as to alimony; ch. II of Book III, Title 1, of Civil Procedure, as to temporary alimony; Arts. 1373-1377 inc.
The civil action for damages for injuries resulting in death,
under the laws of Mexico, is a personal action, transitory in its
nature; and the right created by those laws not being contrary
to the public policy of the State of Texas, nor calculated to
injure the State of Texas, or the United States, or their citizens, the same may be enforced at law in the Federal courts
within the State of Texas, and inthis suit, where, by personal
process and an appearance, the wrongdoer has been subjected
to the jurisdiction of the court, the citizenship of the parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Respondent.

194 U. S.

is diverse. The defendant corporation appeared and filed its
pleas. Dennick v. Railway Co., 103 U. S. 11; Railway Company v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593; Railway Company v. Babcock, 154
U. S. 190; Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 670; Stewart v. B.
& 0. Ry. Co., 168 U. S. 445; B. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Joy, 173 U. S.
226; Evey v. Mexican Central Ry. Co., 81 Fed. Rep. 294;
Mexican Central Ry. Co. v. Marshall, 91 Fed. Rep. 933; Story
on.Conflict of Laws, ยง 625, note a; Cooley on Torts (as to damages recoverable), 262, 270 et seq.; Texas Revised Statutes,
tit. 57, Arts. 3017-3027; Railway Co. v. Haist, 72 S.W. Rep.
(Ark.) 893, and cases cited.
Damages for injuries resulting in death, the. payment of
which may be exacted from a railroad company under the laws
of Mexico, is not alimony in the statutory meaning of that
term; but, the support of which the wife and children have been
deprived may be considered'with other facts in determining the
amount of the damages occasioned, and payment of such
damages may be enforced in the courts of law of this country
without reference to the procedure under the code of Mexico
to enforce the payment of alimony.
Mr. LeRoy G. Denman, with whom Mr. Thomas W. Dodd
was on the brief, for respondent:
The main question, or rather controlling question presented
by the record is, can the Circuit Courts of the United States
consistently with their own forms of procedure and law of
trials, take jurisdiction of, and administer the laws of Mexico
in the class of cases to which this case belongs, and do substantial justice between the parties plaintiffs and defendant,
giving to the plaintiffs the rights secured by the laws of Mexico,
and at the same time secure to defendant its rights under that
law?
If that cannot be done, then it follows, according to all the
adjudicated cases, that the Circuit Courts should decline jurisdiction, or rather refuse to assume the power and responsibility
of undertaking to administer such laws. Huntington v. At-

SLATER v. MEXICAN NATIONAL R. R. CO.
194 U. S.

123

Argument for Respondent.

trill, 146 U. S. 657, 689; Higgins v. Central New England R.
Co., 155 Massachusetts, 180.
The question is one for the determination of the sovereign
appealed to, to enforce such foreign law. The fact that one
sovereign power may refuse to assume such responsibility, can
only be invoked before another sovereign because of the soundness of the reasons given for such refusal. One sovereign may
decline such jurisdiction or responsibility for reasons another
sovereign might deem not well taken.
,As to the enforcement of foreign laws by the different States
of the United States, which has generally arisen out of resorts
to the courts of one of the States to enforce the laws of a sister
State of our union of States, in every instance, each State as a
sovereign has, for itself, according to its own discretion of a
sound public policy, decided whether it would take jurisdiction
or decline to do so. In some instances in the history of our
Federal Judicature, these courts have refused to follow the rule
established by the decisions of the state courts in which they
hold sessions, in the class of cases to which this belongs. In
Texas the courts hold that they will decline to take jurisdiction,
and assume the responsibility of undertaking to administer
the laws of Mexico in ordinary personal injury suits. Mexican
National R. R. Co. v. Jackson, 89 Texas, 107. The United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit have refused to follow the decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas
in that class of cases. Evey v. Mexican CentralRy. Co., 81 Fed.
Rep. 294; Mexican Central Ry. Co. v. Marshall,91 Fed. Rep. 933.
It is also a well established rule of decision of the Supreme
Court of Texas, to decline to take jurisdiction of claims for
personal injuries resulting in death, even where the injuries
occur in any of our domestic States or Territories, basing such
refusal upon the fact that the statutes of the States wherein the
injuries happened, upon the rights secured, were materially
different from the laws of Texas in relation to same subject.
Railway Co. v. McCormick, 73 Texas, 660; Railway Co. v.
Richards, 68 Texas, 375.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S,

The extensive border between this country and Mexico,
coupled with the graphic description of the physical and business conditions existing along its border between the two
republics, makes the question of the proper adjudication of
this case one.of gravity and importance, and of international
concern.
It is now the accepted doctrine of this court that the laws
of the country where a cause of action originates will govern
in all matters touching the merits and rights secured. It is
elementary, and so held by this court from its organization,
that the Circuit Court cannot, in the trial of an action at law,
exercise the power of a court of equity, and that in all cases
or causes of action in said courts, the right will not be adjudicated and relief granted, when to do so, the power of a
chancellor as contradistinguished from a law court mst be
exercised.
It often rests in the sound jurisdiction of the court whether
or not to take jurisdiction where the cause of action arose outside of the jurisdiction and the parties are foreigners. Gardner
v. Thomas, 14 Johns. 134; Mex. Nat. Ry. v. Jackson, 89 Texas,
107; Story, Conflict of Law, 38, and cases supra.
Mn. JusricE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought in the United States Circuit Court
for the NorthernDistrict of Texas by citizens and residents of
Texas again.t a Colorado corporation operating a railroad from
Texas to the City of Mexico. The plaintiffs are the widow and
children of William TI. Slater, who was employed by the defendant as a switchman on its roal and was killed through the
defendant's nogligence while cmupling two freight cars at
Nuevo Laredo, in Mexico. This action is to recover damages
for the death. . The laws of Mexico were set forth in the plaintiffs ' petit ion, and the defhn(lant denlitred on the ground that
Ol e ime of action given by the Mexican ltws wa,, lmjo, transitory, for roa,"oms sufficienldly stated. The demomrrv twas over

SLATER v. MEXICAN NATIONAL R. R. CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ruled, and the defendant excepted. A similar objection was
taken also by plea setting forth additional sections of the
Mexican statutes. A demurrer to this plea was sustained,
subject to exception. The same point was raised again at the
trial by a request to direct a verdict for the defendant. The
judge who tried the case instructed the jury that the damages
to be recovered, if any, were to be measured by the money
value of the life of the deceased to the widow and children, and
the jury returned a verdict for a lump sum, apportioned to the
several plaintiffs. The judge and jury in this regard acted as
prescribed by the Texas Rev. Stat. Art. 3027.. The case then
was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, where the judgment
was reversed and the action ordered to be dismissed. 115 Fed.
Rep. 593; 53 C. C. A. 23D.
There is no need to encumber the reports with all the statutes
in the record. The main reliance of the plaintiffs is upon the
following agreed translation from the Penal Code, Book 2,
"Civil Liability in Criminal Matters." "Art. 301. The civil
liability arising from an act or omission contrary to a penal
law consists in the obligation imposed on the party liable, to
make (1) restitution, (2) reparation, (3) indenmization, and
(4) payment of judicial expenses."
"Art. 304. Reparation comprehends: Payment of all damages caused to the injured partyj his family or a third person
for the violation of a, right which is formal, existing and not
simply possible, if such damages are actual, an(l arise directly
and immediately from the act or omission complained of, or
there be a certainty that such act or omission must necessarily
cause, a proximate and inevitable consequence." Coupled
with these are articles making railroad companies answerable
for the negligence of their servants within the scope of the
servants' employment. Penal Code, Bk. 2, Arts. 330, 331;
Regulations for the Construction, Maintenance and Operation
of Railroads, Art, 184. We assume for tie moment that it
was sufficiently alleged and proved that the killing of Slater
was a negligent crime within the definition of Article 11 of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Penal Code, and, therefore, if the above sections were the only
law bear~ing on the matter, that they created a civil liability
to make reparation to any on whose-rights were infringed.
As Texas has statutes which give an action for wrongfully
causing death, of course there is no general objection of policy
to.enforcing such a liability there, although it arose in another
jiUrisdictioa6 Stewart v. Baltimore & Ohio R.R., 168 U. S. 445.
But when such a liability is enforced in a jurisdiction foreign
to the place of the wrongful act, obviously that does not mean
that the act in any degree is subject to the lex ori, with regard
to either its quality or its consequences. OR the other hand,
it equally little means that the law of the place of the act is
operative outside its owri territory. The -theory of the foreign
suit is that although the act complained of was subject to no
law having force in the forum, it gave rise to an obligation, an
obligatio, which, like other obligations, follows the person, and
may be enforced wherever the person may be found. Stout
v. Wood, 1 Blackf. (Ind.) 71; Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S.
11'. 18. But as the only source of this obligation is the law of
the place of the act, it follows that that law determines not
merely the existence of the obligation, Smith v. Condry, 1 How.
28, but equally determines its extent. It seems to us unjust
to allow a plaintiff to come here absolutely depending on the
foreign law for the foundation of his case, and yet to'deny the
defendant the benefit of whatever limitations- on his liability
that law would. impose. Ii Northern Pacific R.R. v. Babcock,
154 U. S. 190, 199, an action was brought in the District of
Minnesota for a death caused in Montana, and it was held that
the damages were to be assessed in accordance with the Montana statute. Therefore we may lay on one side as quite
inadivissible-the notion that the law of the place of the act may
be resorted to. so far as to show that the act was a tort, and
then may be abandoned, leaving the consequences to be determined accoriling to the accident of the place where the defendant may happen to be caught. See further Pullman Palace Car
Co. v. Lawrence, 74 Mississippi, 782, 801, 802 et seq.; Morris v.

SLATER v. MEXICAN NATIONAL R. R. CO.
194 U. S.

127

Opinion of the Court.

Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry., 65 Iowa, 727, 731; Mexican
National Ry. v. Jackson, 89 Texas, 107; Bruce v. Cincinnati
R. R., 83 Kentucky, 174, 181; Holmes v. Barclay, 4 La. Ann.
64; Atwood v. Walker, 179 Massachusetts, 514, 519; Minor,
Conflict of Laws, 493, ยง 200. We are aware that expressions
of a different tendency may be found in some English cases.
But they do not cover the question before this court, and our
opinion is based upon the express adjudication of this court and
as it seems to us upon the only theory by which actions fairly
can be allowed to be maintained for foreign torts. As the
cause of action relied upon is one which is supposed to have
arisen in Mexico under Mexican laws, the place of the death
and the domicil of the parties have no bearing upon the case.
The application of these considerations now is to be shown.
The general ground on which the plaintiffs bring their suit is,
as we have stated, that there is a civil liability imposed on the
railroad company arising from an act contrary to the penal
law-a negligent crime, as it is called in the code. But the
code contains specific provisions for the case of homicide.
These necessarily override the merely general rule for torts
which also are crimes. Mutual Lie Ins. Co. of New York v.
Hill, 193 U. S. 551. By Art. 311 the right is personal
to the parties mentioned in Art. 318, and is no part of the
estate of the deceased. The specific cause of action is the
killing of the deceased. So far as appears, apart from that and
the following articles, these plaintiffs would have no right of
action for the cause alleged. For Art. 304 seems to presuppose
a right in the family, not to create one, and we cannot assume
a general right of the members of a family to sue for causing
death. By Article 318 civil responsibility for a wrongful
homicide includes, besides the expenses of medical attendance
and burial and damages to the property of the deceased, the
expenses "of the support not only of the widow, descendants
and ascendants of the deceased, who were being supported by
him, he being under legal obligations to do so, but also to the
posthumous descendants that he may leave." Then, by Art.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

319, the obligation to support shall last during the time that
the, deceased might have lived, calculated by a given life
table, but taking the state of his health before the homicide
into consideration, but "the obligation shall cease: 1. At whatever time it shall not be absolutely necessary for the subsistence of those entitled to receive it. 2. When those beneficiaries
get married. 3. When the minor children become of age.
4. In any other case in which, according to law, the deceased,
if alive, would not be required to continue the support." It
is unnecessary to set forth the detailed provisions as to support
in other parts of the statutes. It is sufficiently obvious from
what has been quoted that the decree contemplated by the
Mexican law is a decree analogous to a decree for alimony in
divorce proceedings-a decree which contemplates periodical
payments and which is subject to modification from time to
time as the circumstances change. See, also, Arts. 1376, 1377,
of the Code of Procedure, and Penal Code, Bk., 2, Art. 363.
The present action is a suit at common law and the court has
no power to make a decree of this kind contemplated by the
Mexican statutes. What the Circuit Court did was to disregard the principles of the Mexican statute altogether and to
follow the Texas statute. This clearly was wrong and was
excepted to specifically. But we are of opinion further that
justice to the defendant would not permit the substitution of
a lump sum, however estimated, for the periodical payments
which the Mexican statute required. The marriage of beneficiaries, the cessation of the absolute necessity for the payments, the arising of other circumstances in which, according
to law, the deceased would not have been required to continue
the support, all are contingencies the chance of which cannot
be estimated by any table of probabilities. 'It would be going
far to give a lump surn in place of an annuity for life, the
probable value of which could be fixed by averages based on
statistics. But to reduce a liability conditioned as this was to
a lump sum would be to leave the whole matter to a mere guess.
We may add that by Art. 225, concerning alimony, the right

SLATER v. MEXICAN NATIONAL R. R. CO.
194 U. S.

129

Opinion of the Court.

cannot be renounced, nor can it be subject to compromise
between the parties. There seems to be no possibility in
Mexico of capitalizing the liability. Evidently the Texas
courts would deem the dissimilarities between the local law
and that of Mexico too great to permit an action in the Texas
state courts. Mexican National Ry. v. Jackson, 89 Texas, 107;
St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. v. McCormick, 73

Texas, 660. The case is not one demanding extreme measures
like those where a tort is committed in an uncivilized country.
The defendant always can be found in Mexico, on the other
side of the river, and it is to be presumed that the courts there
are open to the plaintiffs, if the statute conferred a right upon
them notwithstanding their absence from the jurisdiction, as
we assume that it (lid, for the purposes of this part of the case.
See Mulhall v. Fallon, 176 Massachusetts, 266.
So far as appears, the civil liability depends upon penal
liability; no different suggestion has been made; and thus far
we have taken it for granted that the defendant was within the
penal law. The Circuit Court made the same assumption,
although the question was one of fact, in case the jury should
find the negligence relied upon to be proved. But whether
or not a railroad company was subject to penalty for a homicide caused by the negligenoe of its servants did not appear.
It has occurred to us, although no such argument was made,
that it might be sought to sustain the liability on a different
ground. The alleged cause of the accident was the different
height of the draw-heads on two cars which the deceased
attempted to couple as they came together. By Art. 52 of
the Mexican Railroad Regulations it is I'equired that "the cars
which enter into the make up of a train shall have draw-heads
of the same height." By Art. 208 of the same "all violations
of this law which companies (railroad) commit shall be subject
to punishment by the administration of a fine up to five. hundred dollars, which the department of public works shall assess,
reserving always the right of individuals through indemnity
and the liabilities which the companies may incur through
'VOL. CX0V- 9

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

criminal acts and omissions committed by Them."

194 U_ S.

It might

be argued that these sections, coupled with Articles 301 and
304 of the Penal Code, to which we referred in the beginning,
were enough to create the liability without regard to the question of homicide. To this it might be enough to answer that
it does not appear that a law imposing a fine to be assessed by
the department of public works is a penal law within the
meaning of the code-that, as we have said in a different connection, when the tort relied on is a homicide the specific
provisions for homicide override merely general rules, and
that the plaintiffs come here relying, as they have to rely, upon
a statute which gives them a right of action independent of
the deceased, and that the statute is made expressly and only
for the case of homicide. Penal Code, Bk. 2, Art. 311.
But what we last have said brings into consideration another error of the Circuit Court which hitherto we have not
mentioned. The defendant offered the deposition of a Mexican
lawyer as to the Mexican law. This was rejected, subject to
exception, seemingly on the ground that the agreed translation
of the statute was the best evidence. So no doubt they were,
so far as they went, but the testimony of an expert as to the
accepted or proper construction of them is admissible upon
any matter open to reasonable doubt. Many doubts are left
unresolved by the documents before us. The expert would
have testified that where 'no criminal proceedings had been
had, the right of the widow and children was dependent upon
the court's finding that the killing was a crime as defined by the
penal code, and that the right was in the nature of alimony or
pension to be paid in installments for periods of time fixed by
the court. Without stating his testimony more fully, we have
said enough to show that it should have been received. Seemingly he understood that he was testifying in a case against a
railroad, and if so he furnished further reasons for denying any
liability except on the footing of homicide. In a case of homicide he excluded the argument that there was a right to a lump
sum under Arts. 301, 304; distinct fxom th? right of alimony,

SLATER v. MEXICAN NATIONAL R. R. CO.
194 U. S. The

CHIEF JUSTICE, HARLAN

and

PEcHAM,

131

JJ., dissenting.

and he confirmed the conclusion drawn from the language of
the code as to what would be the nature of a Mexican decree
in such a case. There may be other matters which would have
to be considered before the verdict could be sustained, but
what we have said seems to us sufficient to show that the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,
JUSTICE

HARLAN and MR.

with whom concurred MR.
PECKHAM, dissenting.

JUSTICE

Slater, the deceased, was a citizen of Texas, residing at
Laredo in that State. The Mexican National Railroad Company was a corporation of Colorado, owning and operating a
railroad from Laredo to the City of Mexico. Its superintendent resided in Laredo. Slater was fatally injured through the
negligence of the company while working in its yard in New
Laredo, .just across the Rio Grande in Mexico, and died in
Laredo from the injuries so inflicted. His wife and children,
who resided in Laredo, brought this suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States, diverse citizenship being the ground of
jurisdiction, and no objection in that regard arises. Defendant did not "happen to be caught" in Laredo, but was domiciled there.
The laws of Texas provided that an action for damages on
account of injuries causing death may be brought when the
death is caused by the wrongful act, negligence, unskillfulness
or default of another, and without regard to any criminal proceedings in relation to the homicide. The jury are to give such
damages as they may think proportioned to the injury resulting
from the death, to be divided among the persons entitled in
such shares as fourid by the verdict. The jury pursued that
course in this case under the instructions of the Circuit Court.
By the laws of Mexico, damages are recoverable for death
by wrongful act,, but they, it is said, are awarded as support by
decree in the nature of alimony or pension.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
The CHIrv

JUSTICE, HARLAN

and

PECU JIAM,

JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S,.

As the two countries concur in holding that the act complained of is the subject of legal redress, the question is whether
recovery in this cause must be defeated because the law of
Mexico controls and cannot be enforced in Texas.
It seems to me that the method of arriving at and distributing
the damages pertains to procedure or remedy, that is to say, to
the course of the court after parties are brought in, and the
means of redressing the wrong, and I think the general rule
that procedure and remedy are regulated by the law of the
forum is applicable. 2 Rawle's Bouvier, 870; Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221; Stewart v. Baltimore &.Ohio Railroad
Company, 168 U. S. 445.
In Northern Pacific Railroad Company v. Babcock, 154 U. S.
190, 199, the company was not a corporation of Minnesota, and
the ruling simply was that the right to recover was governed
by the lex loci. The amount found was within the law of
Minnesota as well as that of Montana.
The extent of damages does not enter into any definition of
the right enforced or the cause of action permitted to be prosecuted. Finch, J., Wooden v. Railroad Company, 126 N. Y. .0.
In Scott v. Lord Seymour, 1 H. & C. 219, which was an action
by one British. subject against another for an assault committed in a foreign country, it was held unanimously by the
Courts of Exchequer and of the Exchequer Chamber that the
objection that by the foreign law compensation in damages
could not be recovered until certain penal proceedings -had
been commenced and determined there, was an objection to
procedure merely, and not a bar to the action in England.
And many of the judges were of opinion that an action was
maintainable for any act which would have been a tort if done
in England, and, whether actionable or not, was unjustifiable
or wrongful, in a broad sense, under the law of the foreign
country where the act was done.
. Mr. Justice Wightman, (Willes, J., in effect concurring,)
specifically held that if an action would lie by the-English law
for a particular wrong, the English courts would give redress

SLATER v. MEXICAN NATIONAf

It.R. W .

1310

194 U. S. The CHIEF JUSTICE, HAIILAN and PPCKHAM, JJ., dissenting,

for it, though it was committed in a country by the laws (.,
which no redress would be granted, if the partie, were bott;
British subjects.
This case has never been overruled, and is cited as authority
by Mr. Pollock in his work on Torts (6th ed.), p. 201.
At all events, the rule in England is well settled, as thup
laid down in Machado v. Fontes, (1897) L. R. 2 Q. B. 231"An action will lie in this country in respect of an act cormitted outside the jurisdiction if the act is wrolgful both iM
this country and in the country where it was committed; bu,
it is not necessary that the act should be the subject of civi
proceedings in the foreign country." Phillips v. Eyre, (1870)
L. R. 6 Q. B. 1, and The M. Moxham, (1876) J. 1). 107, werc(
there cited and applied.
In Phillips v. Eyre, Willes, J., delivering the opinion of thw
Exchequer Chamber, said: "As a general rule, in order to
found a suit in England, for a wrong alleged to have beer),
committed abroad, two conditions must be fulfilled. First, the
wrong must be of such a character that it would have been
actionable if committed in England ...
Secondly, Lhe
act must not have been justifiable by the law of the, place
where it was done "
In The Halley, L. R. 2 P. C. 193, 203, Lord Justice Selwyn,
speaking for the court, said: "It is true that in many cases the
courts of England inquire into and act upon the law of foreign
countries, as in the case of a contract entered inlo in a foreign
country, where, by express reference, or by necessary implica.
tion, the foreign law is incorporated with the contract, and
proof and consideration of the foreign law therefore become
necessary to the construction of the contract itself. And a,;
in the case of a collision on an ordinary road in a foreign coun-try, where the rule of the road in force at the place of collision
may be a necessary ingredient in the determination of the
question by whose fault or negligence the alleged tort was
committed. But in these and siniilar cases the English court
admits the proof of the foreign law as )art of the circumstances

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
The

CHIEF JUSTCE, HARLAN and PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting. 194 U. S.

attending the execution of the contract, or as one of the facts
upon which the existence of the tort, or the right to damages,
may depend, and it then applies and enforces its own law so
far as it is applicable to the case thus established; but it is, in
their Lordship's opinion, alike contrary to principle and to
authority, to hold, that an English court of justice will enforce
a foreign municipal law, and will give a remedy in the shape
of damages in respect of an act which, according to its own
principles, imposes no liability on the person from whom the
damages are claimed."
The rule in this court goes further, for "by our law, a private
action may be maintained in one State, if not contrary to its
own policy, for such a wrong done in another and actionable
there, although a like wrong would not be actionable in the
State where the suit is brought." Huntington v. Attrill, 146
U. S. 657, 670.
It is enough that the act complained of here was wrongful
by both the law of Texas and the law of Mexico, and in such a
case the action lies in Texas, except where the cause of action
is not transitory, but is purely local such as trespass to land.
Dennick v. Railroad Company, 103 U. S. 11; Railway Co. v.
Cox, 145 U. S. 593; Ellenwood v. Marietta Chair Company, 158
U. S. 105; Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 How. 115; McKenna v.
Fisk, 1 How. 241.
It is suggested that the Texas courts have held that there
can be no recovery in Texas because of the dissimilarity in the
ascertainment of damages between the law of Texas and that
of Mexico. And this seems to have been so ruled in Mexican
National Railway v. Jackson, 89 Texas, 107, but the question
is one of general law, and we are not bound by that ruling.
Moreover, the railway company is stated in that case to have
been "a Mexican corporation whose line of railway extended
into Texas," whereas in this case the company is a corporation
9f Colorado, domiciled in Texas, and whose line of railway
extends from Texas into Mexico. Again, after that decision
was rendered, in Mexican Central Railway Company v. Mitten,

SLATER v. MEXICAN NATIONAL R. R. CO.
194 U. S. The CHIEF

JUSTICE, HARLAN and PmCKAM,

JJ., dissenting.

13 Tex. Civ. App. 653, the company being a Massachusetts
corporation and Mitten a citizen of Texas, the Court of Civil
Appeals for the Fourth District of Texas held to the contrary.
The court said: "If the construction placed upon the decision
in the Jackson case be the true one, and some of its expressions
would seem to justify the construction, it is a practical denial
of remedies for wrongs that may be inflicted by one of our
citizens upon another in Mexico, . . . and: "We are not
willing to subscribe to such doctrine and will not extend the
scope of the decision referred to beyond the purview of the
facts of that case."
The Supreme Court of Texas apparently accepted this view
for it refused to grant a writ of error to review the judgment.
13 Tex. Civ. App. v. And see Evey v. Mexican Central Railway Company, 81 Fed. Rep. 294.
I entirely agree with the views expressed in Scott v. Seymour,
to which I have referred. The legal relations of Slater with the
United States and Texas were not destroyed by his crossing
the Rio Grande to work in the railroad yard. This Colorado
corporation was domiciled in Texas, as Slater was. The laws
of Texas protected them alike. The injury was inflicted in
Mexico and resulted fatally in Texas. The wrongful act was
actionable in Texas and in Mexico.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over person and subject
matter was unquestionable, and I cannot accept the conclusion that the form in which the law of Mexico provides for
reparation to its own citizens constitutes a bar to recovery in
Texas in litigation between citizens of this country.
My brothers HARLAN and PECKHAM concur in this dissent.

