OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

newals may be made before the expiration of the original grant.
State v. East Cleveland Railroad Company, 6 Ohio Circuit Court
Rep. 318, affirmed by the Supreme Court of Ohio without
opinion, 27 Weekly Law Bulletin, 64.
Concluding, as we do, that the ordinance of 1898, impaired
the obligations of contracts entered into by the city of Cleveland fixing the rate of fare to be charged on the lines of railroad
operated by the complainant, the decree of the Circuit Court
adjudging the nullity of this ordinance was right, and it is
therefore
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

took no part in the decision of this

cause.

CLEVELAND v. CLEVELAND ELECTRIC RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 256. Argued April 26, 27, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.
Decided on authority of Cleveland v. City Railway Co., ante, p. 517.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. D. C. Westenhaver and Mr. Newton D. Baker for appellant.
Mr. W. B. Sanders for appellee.'
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the :opinion of the court.

This case is analogous in the facts shown by the record to
I

For abstracts of arguments in this case, which was argued simultaneously

with Cleveland v. City Railway Co., see ante, p. 517.

CLEVELAND v. ELECTRIC RAILWAY CO.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the one just decided, Cleveland v. City Railway Company, ante,
p. 517, and presents identical questions of law.
We shall briefly advert to some only of the material facts.
An ordinance was passed by the city council of Cleveland in
1879, granting a renewal of franchise to the East Cleveland
Railroad Company, and in section 6 of the ordinance it was
provided as follows:
"Said company shall not charge more than five cents fare
each way for one passenger over the whole or any part of the
line herein renewed, but said company may charge a reasonable compensation for carrying packages. The council, however, reserves the right to hereafter increase or diminish the
rate of fare, as it may deem justifiable and expedient."
By ordinances duly accepted, passed in 1886, 1888 and 1889,
extensions were authorized, the right was given to double
track portions of the line, the franchise was extended, and
additional obligations were assumed by the railroad company
in respect to paving, etc. It was expressly stipulated in the
ordinances of 1886 and 1887 that the company should charge
and collect for passage over its lines in either direction but one
fare, of not more than five cents; there was -no reservation of
the future right to alter rates of fare; and it was agreed that
the rights conferred should continue during the life of the
franchise.
In 1893 the East Cleveland Railroad Company was consolidated with. three other corporations, independent lines of
railway, in the city of Cleveland, each of them operating under
contracts or grants from the city, and charging, as authorized
in the ordinance permitting their operation, a cash fare of five
cents. As to no one of these companies was there any right
remaining in the city council to increase or diminish the rate
of fare during the period of the several grahts. The fare then
being charged by all the constituent companies was five cents.
Since the consolidation the system has been operated in its
entirety, and but a single fare of five cents has been charged.
.On October 17, 1898, the city council of Cleveland passed

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

an ordinance reducing the cash fare to be charged by the complainant on the portion of its line affected by the ordinance of
1879 to four cents, and required seven tickets to be sold for
twenty-five cents. The validity of this ordinance was assailed
by the bill filed in this cause, and similar contentions were
urged against its constitutionality as are contained in the bill
filed in the suit brought by the Cleveland Railway Company.
Like jurisdictional objections were also interposed in this case
by the city of Cleveland as were raised in the other case.
The Circuit Court granted a motion for judgment upon the
pleadings and decreed that the ordinance of '1898 was void
because it impaired the obligations of prior contracts. 94
Fed. Rep. 385. The principles applied in the case of the Cleveland City Railway Company, just decided, govern this case,
and, as a result, the decree of the Circuit Court must be and
it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

took no part in the decision of this

cause.

DIMMICK v. TOMPKINS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 528. Submitted May 16,1904.-Decided May 31,1904.
An appeal directly to this court from the Circuit Court denying a writ of
habeas corpus is proper where the petition contains averments that the
imprisonment is in violation of the Federal Constitution.
A sentence at hard labor in the state prison does not commence until the
person sentenced is taken to the prison, and if by his own efforts to obtain
a review and reversal of the judgment he secures a supersedeas pending

appeal his detention meanwhile in the county jail cannot be counted as
a part of the time of imprisonment in the state prison.
Although for some purposes different counts- in an indictment may be regarded as in effect separte indictments, where there is nothing to show

