PETTIT v. WALSHE.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

PETTIT v. WALSHE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE

DISTRICT -OF INDIANA.

No. 563. Argued April 6, 1904.-Decided May 2, 1904.

Where the petition for a writ of habeas corpus, and the warrant under
which the accused is arrested both refer to a treaty and the determination
of the court below depends at least in part on the meaning of certain
provisions of that treaty, the construction of the treaty is drawn in question, and this court has jurisdiction of a direct appeal from the Circuit
Court, even though it is also necessary to construe the acts of Congress
passed to carry the treaty provisions into effect.
Where an extradition treaty provides that the surrender shall only be made
"upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place
where the fugitive or person so charged shall be found,-would justify his
apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime or offense had there
been committed," one whose surrender is demanded from this Government and who is arrested in one of the States cannot be delivered up
except upon such evidence of criminality as under the laws of that State
would justify his apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime
had there been committed.
A United States commissioner appointed to execute the extradition laws
has no power to issue a warrant on a requisition made under existing
treaties with Great Britain, under which a marshal of a district in another State can arrest the accused and deliver him in another State before the commissioner issuing the warrant, without a previous examination being had before some judge or magistrate authorized by the acts
of Congress to act in extradition matters, and sitting in the State where
he is found and arrested.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Charles Fox for H. B. M., Consul General at New York,
appellant:
Upon this appeal, from a decision upon the aplication for a
writ of habeas corpus, this court has the power to review the
decision below, upon the facts, as well as the. law. In re'
Neagle, 135 U. S. 142; Homer v. United States, 143 U. S: 570.
An order of a district or circuit court of the United States,
uppn an application for a writ of habeas corpus, can be re-,
viewed only by an appeal, and not by a writ of error. Rice
v. Ames, 180 U. S. 371; Re Morrissey, 137 U. S. 157, 158. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

194 U. S.

appeal lies directly to this court, as the construction of a treaty
isdrawn in question. Rice v. Ames, supra.
The warrant of the Commissioner in New York could legally
be executed in Indianapolis, by the marshal for that district,
and the appellee brought by the marshal, before the Commissioner in New York for a hearing. Act of August 12, 1848, 9
Stat. 302; § 5270, Rev. Stat.; Grin v. Shine, 187 U. S. 194;
The British Prisoners, 1 Wood. & M. 66; In re Henrich, 5
Blatch. 415; Re Fergus, 30 Fed. Rep. 607; Ex parte Van Hoven,
4 Dill. 415.
The state department, in issuing mandates, where required
under treaties of extradition, does not issue them to a judge or
commissioner, in any particular State or district, but directs
them to any justice of the Supreme Court, circuit judge,
district judge, etc., as contained in section 5270, Rev. Stat.
See various forms, in Moore on Extradition, pp. 362, 364, 365,
and § 304 as to warrants running throughout the United
States. After the Exposito case in 1882 an effort was made
to amend the act so that a person arrested as a fugitive could
not be arrested in one State and brought to another for hearing
but Congress did not amend the act in this respect although it
did amend it in other respects. Sen. Rep. No. 82, 47th Cong.
2d Sess. Act of August 3, 1882, 22 Stat. 215.
The Federal law regulates proceedings for extradition, and
state laws have no application thereto, except as necessary to
define the crime, and determine whether the evidence introduced in support of extradition would be sufficient to justify
his commitment for trial, if the offense had been committed
within the State in which he is found. Rice v. Ames, 180 U. S.
371; Wright v. Henkel, 190 U. S. 40.
In the case of a fugitive convict; such as the appellee, the
state law has no application, other than to ascertain whether
the crime of which the appellee has been convicted was a crime
within the laws of Indiana, and this could be determined with
equal protection to all rights of the appellee, as well in New
York as in Indiana.

PET
194 U S.

'iT v. WALSHE.

Argument for Appellant.

The appellee is not a fugitive who is simply charged with
crime but one who has been convicted of the crime; the procedure therefore in this case is not regulated by Article X of
the treaty of 1842, but by Article VII of the treaty of 1889,
which, dealing specially with persons convicted of crimes,
respective'y named and specified in the said Article X, whose
sentence therefor shall not have been executed, prescribes the
evidence upon which a fugitive shall be surrendered.
Whatever might be said in support of the decision of the
Circuit Court, in respect to a person who had not been convicted of crime, and who was entitled to a hearing, and to have
the evidence of criminality determined by the law of the place
where he was found, can have no force in the case of a fugitive
convict, under the treaty; for the treaty of 1889 has, in respect
to fugitive convicts, avoided the requirements of evidence of
criminality contained in the treaty of 1842.
If there is any conflict or inconsistency between Article X of
the treaty of 1842, and Article VII of the treaty of 1889, the
latter will control; being, in effect, a later law, it supersedes
the earlier treaty. Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580; Whitney
v. Robertson, 124 U. S. 190; Horner v. United States, 143 U. S.
570; Chinese Exclusion Cases; 130 U. S. 581. Treaties for extradition are to be liberally construed, for the purpose of carrying their object into effect. Grin v. Shine, 187 U. S. 191;
Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S. 424.
An aliei convict has no right of asylum or habitation anywhere in the United States under our immigration laws, and
can acquire no local residence. Grii v. Shine, supra.
That the question of the extradition of the appellee is no
longer open, by reason of the decision of Commissioner Moores,
is not supported by the authorities. In re Kelly, 26 Fed. Rep.
852.
If the Cominissioner had held that the offense was nonpolitical, then, if his decision is to he considered final, there
could be no appeal to the Secretary of StMet oti behalf of the
fugitive. It is a generdl principl , that the surrender of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellee.

194 U. S.

fugitive criminal is an act of government to be performed by
the executive authority. Moore on Extradition, vol. 1, §§ 210,
359; In re Kaine, 3 Blatch. 8.
As under the extradition procedure of the United States,
there is no opportunity for review where the fugitive is discharged, the only remedy a demanding government has, is to
have the fugitive arrested on a new complaint. Re Calder, 6
Op. Att'y Gen'l, 91; Re Muller, 10 Op. Att'y Gen'l, 501; S. C.,
5 Phila. Rep. 289.
Mr. Ferdinand Winter, with whom Mr. Addison C. Harris
was on the brief, for appellee:
On every writ of error and appeal the first and fundamental
question is that of jurisdiction, and the court, of its own motion, will refuse to proceed where want of jurisdiction appears
Continental National Bank v. Buon the face of the record.
lord, 191.U. S. 119.
The jurisdiction in this case depends upon whether the construction of a treaty is involved. Act, March 31, 1891, § 5;
1 U. S. Comp. Stats. 1901, ch. 8a; Cross v. Burke, 146 U. S. 82;
Ex parte Lennon, 150 U. S. 393; Craemer v. State, 168 U. S. 124.
This case depends for its decision upon the construction of
the statutes relating to fugitives from the justice of a foreign
country, and regulating the appointment and defining the
powers of United States commissioners. It does not involve
the construction of any treaty. § 5270, 3 U. S. Comp. Stats.,
1901; § 19, Act, May 28, 1896; § 621, 1 ii. S. Comp. Stats. 1901;
§ 1014, 1 Comp. Stats. U. S. 1901; § 1, Act, August 18, 1894;
1 Comp. Stats. U. S. p. 717.
There was no exception to the ruling and judgment of the
court below, but, on the contrary, the British government
acquiesced in the judgment by procuring appellee to be again
arrested and tried upon the same charge, before a commissioner
for the District of Indiana, in accordance with the judgment
of the court below in this case. This was a waiver of error in
said judgment, and of the right to appeal therefrom. Liebuch

PETTIT v. WALSHE.
191 IT. S.

Argument for Appellee

v. S/ahie, 66 Iowa, 749; Gordon v. Ellison, 9 Iowa, 317; Carr v.
Casey, 20 Illinois, 637; Holland v. Commercial Bank, 22 Ne-braska, 585; Wilson v. Roberts, 38 Nebraska, 206; Brooks v.
Hut, 17 Johns. 484; Ehrman v. Astoija, 26 Oregon, 377;
il1cA fec v. Kirk, 78 Georgia, 356.
I imediately upon the appellee being lischarged from arrest
under the warrant of the New York Commisuioner Shields, the
British government, upon whose complaint that warrant had
been issued, procured the appellee to be nmarrested upon the
same charge, upon a warrant issued by a judge, nod brought
before a commissioner of the District of 1ndiank, pursuant
to the command of the warrant, by whose odginent still
in full force, appellee was acquitted and discharged upon the
merits, after a full hearing. This Judgm(t, wlhil 11orce,
is final, and disposed of the sbd)ject matter. The Ooul ,annot
afford any substantial relief in the present case, v-,cOh presents
70,
simply a moot q uliOnM . Tcnnesrec v..-(ondon, P-4) U ,.
1) U. S. 655'; Californ ,, v. ',aib, d, 149
71; Mlills v. (rhen, 159
U. S. 314; )akota v. Glidden, I1:3 U, S. 225; Dinsinorc v, Express Co., 183 U. S. 120; Codlhi: v. Kohlhaiu;en, 181 U. . 1 t;
Kimball v. Kinball, 174 U, S. I59f; Ncw Orleans Flour I nspectors, 160 U. S. 170; Washiny/on &c. v. Columbia, 137 U. S. 62,
Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S. 547; San Matco County v. Southern
Pac. R. Co., 116 U. 8. 138; Coryctl v. Holcombe, 9 N. J. Eq. 650;'
In re Treadwell, 1I1 California, 189.
The hearing of an application for the extradition of a fugitive
from the justice of a foreign government, arrested upon the
warrant of a- United States commissioner, must. be had in the
(listrict in which the alleged fugitive is found and arrested.
§ 19, Act, May 28, 1896; § 1, Act, August 18, 1894, 28 Stat.
416; § 5270, Rev. Stat.; Rice v. Ames, 180 IJ. S. 374.
The defendant has a right to be examined as a witness in his
own behalf, if he is a competent witness by the laws of the
State in which he is found. In re Farez, 7 Blatch. 345; S. C.,
Fed. Cas. No. 4645.
And to examine witnesses in his own behalf. In, re Kelley,
vWi. Cxciv-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

25 Fed. jRep. 268. The competency of evidence is to be determined by the law of the State in which the hearing is had.
In re Charleston, 34 Fed. :Rep. 531.
If there were conflict between the treaty and the statutes,
the latter, being later in enactment, would control. Horner
v. United States, 143 U. S. 570; Head Money Case, 112 U. S.
580; Whitney v. Robertson, 124 U. S. 190; Chinese Exclusion
Case, 130 U. S. 581.
In this.case there is no conflict. The treaty itself has reference to and recognizes the territorial and governmental subdivisions of the United States.
The evidence of criminality must be such as, according to
the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so charged
shall be found, would justify his apprehension and commitment
for trial if the crime or offense had there been committed.
Under Art. X, Treaty of 1842, 8 Stat. 572, 576, if the acts
alleged to have been committed are not criminal by the statutes
of the United States, resort must be had to the laws of the
State. Wright v. Henkel, 190 U. S.40; § 1014, Comp. Stats.
U. S. 1901; In're Farez, 7 Blatch. 345 ; S. C., Fed. Cas. No.4645.
The construction contended for by appellant involves the
establishment of the power to arrest a presumably innocent
man at his place of residefice, and to remove him therefrom
without any hearing as to the rightfulness of his arrest, to the
most distant part of the country. He may be taken from
New York to Alaska, or from Australia to London.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a case of extradition. It presents the question
whether a Commissioner specially appointed by a court of the
United States under and in execution of statutes enacted to
give effect to treaty stipulations for the apprehension and
delivery of offenders, can issue a warrant for the arrest of an
alleged criminal which may be executed by a marshal of the
United States, within his District, in a State other than the
one in which the Commissioner has his office. It also presents

PETFIT v. WALSHE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the question whether a person, arrested under such a warrant,
can be lawfully taken beyond the State, in which he was found,
and delivered in another State before the officer who issued
the warrant of arrest, without any preliminary examination in
the former State as to the criminality of the charge against him.
By the tenth article of the treaty between the United States
and Great Britain, concluded August 9, 1842, it was provided
that upon mutual requisitions by them, or their ministers,
officers, or authorities, respectively made, they shall "deliver
up to justice all persons who, being charged with the crime of
murder, or assault with intent to commit murder, or piracy,
or arson, or robbery, or forgery, or the utterance of forged
paper, committed within the jurisdiction of either, shall seek
an asylum, or-shall be found, within the territories of the other."
But by the same article it was provided that "this shall only
be done upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the
lawvs of the place where the fugitive or person so (cIar/cd shall be

found, would justify his apprehension and commitment for
trial, if the crime or offense had there been committed: and the
respective judges and other magistrates of the two Governments shall have power, jurisdiction, and authority, upon
complaint made under oath, to issue a warrant for the apprehension of the fugitive or person so charged, that he may be
,brought before such judges or other magistrates, respectively,
to the end that the evidence of criminality may be heard and
considered; and if, on such hearing, the evidence be deemed
sufficient to sustain the charge, it shall be the duty of the
examining judge or magistrate to certify the same to the
proper executive authority, that a warrant may issue for the
surrender of such fugitive. The expense of such apprehension
and delivery shall be borne and defrayed by the party who

makes the requisition, and receives the fugitive."
572, 576.

8 Stat.

A supplementary treaty between the same countries, coneluded July 12, 1889, provided for the extradition for certain

crimes not specified in the tenth article of the treaty of 1842,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion qf the Court.

194 U. S.

and "punishable by the laws of both countries"; and, also,
declared that the provisions of the above article "shall apply
to persons convicted of the crimes therein respectively named
and specified, whose sentence therefor shall not have been
executed. In case of a fugitive criminal alleged to have been
convicted of the crime for which his surrender is asked, a copy
of the record of the conviction, and of the sentence of the court
before which such conviction took place, duly authenticated,
shall be produced, together with the evidence proving that the
prisoner is the person to whom such sentence refers." 26
Stat. 1508, 1510.
By an act of Congress, approved August 12, 1848, c. 167,
and entitled "An act for giving effect to certain treaty stipulations between this and foreign governments for the apprehension and delivering up of certain offenders," it is provided
(§ 1):"Thatin all cases in which there now exists, or hereafter
may exist, any treaty or convention for extradition between
the Government of the United States and any foreign government, it shall and may be lawful for any of the justices of the
Supreme Court or judges of the several District Courts of the
United States--and the judges of the several state courts, and
the commissioners authorized so to do by any of the courts of he
United States, are hereby severally vested with power, jurisdiction, and authority, upon complaint made under oath or
affirmation, charging any person found within the limits of
any State, district, or territory, with having committed within
the jurisdiction of any such foreign government any of the
crimes enumerated or provided for by any such treaty or
convention--to issue his warrant for th( apprehension of the
person so charged, that he may be brought before such judge
or conunissioner, to the end that the e vidence of criminality
may be heard and considered; and if, on such hearing, the
evidence be deemed sufficient by lint to siastain the charge
under the p,ovisions of the proper teaty or convention, it
Ishall be his duty to certify the same, together with a copy of
all the testimony taken before hiin, to the Secretary of State,

PETTIT v. WALSHE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that a warrant may issue upon the requisition of the proper
authorities of such foreign government, for the surrender of
such person, according to the stipulations of said treaty or
convention; and it shall be the duty of the said judge or commissioner to issue his warrant for the commitment of the person
so charged to the proper gaol, there to remain until such surrender shall be made." "SEc. 6. . . . That it shall be
lawful for the courts of the United States, or any of them,
to authorize any person or persons to act as a Commissioner or
Commissioners, under the provisions of this act; and the doings
of such person or persons so authorized, in pursuance of any
of the provisions aforesaid, shall be good and available to all
intents and purposes whatever." 9 Stat. 302.
And by section 5270 of the Revised Statutes-omitting
therefrom the proviso added thereto by the act of June 6,
1900, c. 793, 31 Stat. 656, which applies only to crimes committed in a foreign country or territory "occupied by or under
the control of the United States "-it is provided: "Whenever
there is a treaty or convention for extradition between the
Government of the United States and any foreign government,
any justice of the Supreme Court, circuit judge, district judge,
commissioner, authorized so to do by any of the courts of the
United States, or judge of a court of record of general jurisdiction of any State, may, upon complaint made under oath,
charging any person found within the limits of any State,
District, or Territory, with haling committed within the jurisdiction of any such foreign government any of the crimes
provided for by such treaty or convention, issue his warrant
for the apprehension of the person so charged, that he may be
brought before such justice, judge, or commissioner, to the
end that the evidence of criminality may be heard and considered. If, on such hearing, he deems the evidence sufficient
to sustain the charge under the provisions of the proper treaty
or convention, he shall certify the same, together with a copy
of all the testimony taken before him, to the Secretary of
State, that a warrant may issue upon the requisition of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

proper authorities of such foreign government, for the surrender
of such person, according to the stipulations of the treaty or
convention; and he shall issue his warrant for the commitment
of the person so charged to the proper jail, there to remain until
such surrender shall be made." See also § 5273.
In the Sundry Civil Appropriation Act of August 18, 1894,
will be found the followinig clause:" Provided, That it shall be
the duty of the marshal, his deputy, or other officer, who may
arrest a person charged with any crime or oflense, to take the
defendant before the nearest Circuit Court commissioner or
the nearest ju(dicial officer having jurisdiction under existing
laws for a hearing, commitment, or. taking bail for trial, and
the officer or magistrate issuing the warrant shall attach thereto
a certified copy of the complaint, an(I upon the arrest of the
accused, the return of the warrant, with a copy of the complaint attached, shall confer jurisdiction upon such officer as
fully as if the complaint had originally been made before him,
and no mileage shall be allowed any officer violating the provisions hereof." 28 Stat. 372, 416.
Under these treaty and statutory provisions, complaint on
oath was made before John A. Shields-a Commissioner appointed by the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York to execute the above act of August 12, 1848, and the several acts anendatory thereof-that one
James Lynchehaun was convicted, in a court of Great Britain,
of the crime of having feloniously and unlawfully wounded one
Agnes McDonnell, with intent thereby, feloniously and with
malice aforethought, to kill and murder said McDonnell; that
the accused was sentenced to be kept in penal servitude for
his natural- life; that in execution of such sentence he was
committed to a convict prison in Queens County, Ireland,
and escaped therefrom, and was at large; and that he was a
fugitive from the justice of the Kingdom of Great Britain and
Ireland, and within the territory of the United States. It is
admitted that the present appellee is the person referred to in
the warrant as James Lynchehaun.

PETTIr v. WALSHE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the complaint, Commissioner Shields, in his capacity
as a Commissioner appointed by a court of the United States to
execute the laws relating to the extradition of fugitives from
the justice of foreign countries, issued on the sixth day of
June, 1903, in the nane of the President, a warrant addressed
"to any matshal of the United States, to the deputies of any
such marshal, or any or either of them," commanding that the
accused be forthwith taken and brought before him, at his
office, in the city of New York, in order that the evidence as to
his criminality be heard and considered, and if deemed sufficient to sustain the charge, that the same might be certified,
together with a copy of all the proceedings, to the Secretary
of State, in order that a warrant might be issued for the surrender of the accused pursuant to the above treaty.
This warrant having been placed for execution in the hands
of the appellant, as Marshal of the United States for the District of Indiana, he arrested the accused in that State. Thereupon the latter filed his application for a writ of habeas corpus
in the Circuit Court of the United States for that District,
alleging that his detention was in violation of the Constitution,
treaties and laws of the United States. The writ was issued,
and the Marshal justified his action under the warrant issued
by Cbmmissioner Shields. Referring to. the warrant and averring its due service Lupon the accused, the Marshal's return
stated that the warrant was "regular, legal, valid and sufficient in law in all respects to legally *istify and warrant the
arrest and detention of petitioner, and, under the laws of the
United States, it was and is the duty of this defendant to
arrest and detain said petitioner, and deliver him as commanded
by said writ for hearing before Commissioner Shields, in New
York city; that said writ runs for service in the State of Indiana, although issued by a commissioner of the United States
for the Southern District of New York, by reason of its being
a writ in extradition; that defendant is informed and believes,
and therefore states the fact to be, that petitioner is the identical person commanded to be arrested by said warrant as James

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Lynchehaun; .
and that it is by virtue and authority
solely of said warrant that defendant holds and detains petitioner; that defendant purposes, if not otherwise ordered by
this honorable court, to obey, as United States marshal for the
District 6f Indiana, the command of said warrant as set out
therein, believing it to be his duty as said officer so to do."
The accused excepted to the Marshal's return f ,rinsufficiency in law, and the case was heard upon that exception.
The court held the return to be insufficient ; and the Marshal
having indicated his purpose not to amend it, the accused was
discharged upon the ground that the Commiiiissioner in New
York was without power to issue a warrant under which the
Marshal for the District of Indiana could legally arrest the
accused and deliver him before the court of that Commissioner
in New York without a previous examination, before some
proper officer in the State where lie was found. I* re Walshe,
125 Fed. Rep. 572.
The appellee contends that this case only involves a construction of certain acts of Congress, and that, therefore, this
court is without jurisdiction to review the j(dgmlent on direct
appeal from the Circuit Court. Spreckels Sgjar Refling Co.
v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397, 407. We do not concur in this
view. The treaties of 1842 and 1889 are at the basis of this
litigation, and io effective decision can be made of the controlling questions arising upon the appeal, without an examination of those treaties and a determination of the meanling
and scope of some of their provisions. A case may be brought
directly from a Circuit Court to this court if the construction
of a treaty is therein drawn in question. 26 Stat. 826, c.517,
§ 5. The petition for the writ of habeas corp.s and the warrant
under which the accused was arrested both refer to'the treaty
of 1842, and the court below properly, we think, proceeded
on the ground that the determination of the questions involved
in the case depended in part, at least, on the meaning of certain
provisions of that treaty. The construction of the treaties was
none the less drawn in question because it became necessary

PETTIT v. WALSHE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or appropriate for the court below also to construe the. acts of
Congress passed to carry their provisions into effect.
We now go to the merits of the case. It has been seen that
the treaty of 1842 expressly provides, among other things, that
a person charged with the crime of murder, committed within
the jurisdiction of either country, and found within the territories of the other, shall be delivered up by the latter country;
and that the provision shall apply in the case of one convicted
of such a crime, but whose"sentenee has not been executed.
But both countries stipulated in the treaty of 1842 that the
alleged criminal shall be arrested and delivered up only upon
such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the
place where the fugitive person so charged is ound, would
justify his apprehension and commitment for trial, if the crime
or offense had been there committed. As applied to the present ease, that stipulation means that the accused, Walshe,
could not be extradited under the treaties in question, except
upon such evidence of criminality as, under the laws of the
State of Indiana-the place in which he was found-would
justify his apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime
alleged had been there committed. The words in the tenth
article of the treaty of 1842, "as according to 1'ie laws of the
place where the fugitive or person charged sll
be found,
would justify his apprehension and commitment for trial, if
the crime or offence had there been committed," and the words
"punishable by the laws of both countries," in the treaty of
1889, standing alone, might be construed as referring to this
country as a unit, as it exists under the Constitution of the
United States. But as there are no common law crimes of the
United States, and as the crime of murder, as such, is not
known to the National Government, except in places over
which it may exercise exclusive jurisdiction, the better construction of the treaty is, that the required evidence as to the
criminality of the charge against the accused must be sudli as
would authorize his apprehension and commitment for trial
in that State of the Union in which he is arrested.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Vright v. Henkel, 190 U. S.
under the same
case
of
extradition
was
a
40,. 58, 61, which
treaties as those here involved. In that case the alleged
fugitive criminal from the justice of Great Britain was fouid
in New York. The court said: "As the State of New York
was the place where the accused was found and, in legal effect,
the asylum to which he had fled, is the language of the treaty,
' made criminal by the laws of both countries,' to be interpreted
as limiting- its scope to acts of Congress and eliminating the
operation of the laws of the States? That view would largely
defeat the object of our extradition treaties by ignoring the
fact that for nearly all crimes and misdemeanors the laws of
the States, and not the enactments of Congress, must be looked
to for the definition of the offense. There are no common law
crimes of the United States, and, indeed, in most of the States
the criminal law has been recast in statutes, the common law
being resorted to in aid of definition. Benson v. McMahon,
127 U. S. 457." Again: "When by the law of Great Britain,
and by the law of the State in which the fugitive is found, the
fraudulent acts charged to have been committed are made
criminal, the case comes fairly within the treaty, which otherwise would manifestly be inadequate to accomplish its purposes. And we cannot doubt that if the United States were
seeking to have a person indicted for this same offence under
the laws of New York extradited from Great Britain, the
tribunals of Great Britain would not decline to find the offence
charged to be within the treaty because the law violated was a
statute of one of the States and not an act of Congress."
The above provision in the treaty of 1842 has not been modified or superseded by any of the acts passed by Congress to
carry its provisions into effect. In our opinion, -the evidence
of the criminality of the charge must be heard and considered
by some judge or magistrate) authorized by the acts of Congress to act in extradition matters, and sitting in the State
where the accused was found and arrested. Under any other
interpretation of the statute Commissioner Shields, proceeding
It was substantially so held, in

PETTJT v. WALSHE.
194 1. S.

Opinion of the Court.

unler the treaty, could by his warrant cause a person charged
with one of the extraditable crimes and found in one of the
Pacific States, to be brought before him at his office in the city
of New York, in order that he might hear and consider the
evidence of the criminality of the accused. But as such a
harsh construction is not demanded by the words of the treaties
or of the statutes, we shall not assume that any such result was
contemplated by Congress. While the view just stated has
some support in those parts of the act of 1848, and section 5270
of the Revised Statutes which provide for the accused being
brought before the justice, judge or commissioner who issued
the warrant of arrest, it is not consistent with the above proviso
in the Sundry Civil Act of August 18, 1894, the language of
which is broad enough to embrace the case of the arrest by a
marshal, within the district for which he was appointed, of a
person charged with an extraditable crime committed in the
territories of Great Britain and found in this country. By
that proviso it is made the duty of a marshal arresting a person
charged with any crime or offense to take him before the
nearest Circuit Court Commissioner or the nearest judicial
officer, having jurisdiction for a hearing, commitment or taking
bail for trial in cases of extradition. The commissioner or
judicial officer here referred to is necessarily one acting as such
within the State in which the accused was arrested and found.
So that, assuming that it was competent for the Marshal for
the District of Indiana to execute Commissioner Shields' warrant within his District, as we think t was, his duty was to take
the accused before the nearest magisi ate in that District, who
was authorized by the treaties and by the above acts of Congress to hear and consider the evidence of criminality. If such
magistrate found that the evidence sustained the charge, then,
under section 5270 of the Revised Statutes, it would be his
duty to issue his warrant for the commitment of the accused
to the proper jail, there to remain until he was surrendered
under the directioji of the National Government, in accordance
with the treaty. Instead of pursuing that course, the Marshal

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

arrested Walshe, and in his return to the writ of habeas corpus
distinctly avowed his purpose, unless restrained by the court,
to take the prisoner at once from the State in which he was
found and deliver him in New York, before Commissioner
Shields, without a hearing first had in the State of Indiana
before some authorized officer or magistrate there sitting, as
to the evidence of the criminality of the accused. The Circuit
Court adjudged that the Marshal had no authority to hold the
accused in custody for any such purpose; and, the Marshal
declining to amend his return and not avowing his intention
to take him before a judicial officer or magistrate in Indiana
for purposes of hearing the evidence of criminality, the prisoner
was properly discharged from the custody of that officer.
For the reasons above stated the judgment is
Affirmed.
CLIPPER MINING COMPANY v. ELI MINING AND LAND
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 76. Argued November 13, 1903.-Decided -May 2,1904.
This court has no jurisdiction in an action at law to review the conclusions
of the highest court of a State upon questions of fact.
The land department has the power to set aside a mining location and restore the ground to the public domain, but a mere rejection of.an application for a patent does not have that effect. A second or amended
application may be made and further testimony offered to show the applicant's right to a patent.
Although a placer location is not a location of lodes and veins beneath the
surface, but simply a claim of a tract of ground for the sake of loose deposits upon or near the surface, and the patent to a placer claim does
not convey the title to a known vein or lode within its area unless specifically applied and paid for, the patentee takes title to any lode or vein
not known to exist at the time of the patent and subsequently discovered.
The owner of a.valid mining location, whether lode or placer, has the right
to the exclusive possession and enjoyment of all the surface included
within the lines of the location.
One going upon a valid placer location to prospect for unknown lodes and
veins against the will of the placer owner, is a trespasser and cannot

