LLOYD v. DOLLISON.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

OHIO ex rel. LLOYD v. DOLLISON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

No. 262. Argued April 28, 29, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

The first eight articles of the amendments to the Constitution of the United
States have reference to powers exercised by the government of the
United States, and not to those of the States.
The power of the State over the liquor traffic is such that the traffic may be
absolutely prohibited, and that being so it may be prohibited conditionally
and a local option law does not necessarily deny to any person equal protection of the laws because the sale of liquor is by the operation of such a
law a crime in certain territory and not in other territoy.
This court will not anticipate the judgment of the statb court by deciding
what persons are qualified to act as jurdrs before the trial and one who is
to be tried cannot complain until he is made to suffer.
It is not necessarily a deprivation of liberty or property without due process
of law to commit to the judgment of a court the amount of punishment
for illegal liquor selling.
The Ohio local option law regulating the sale of liquor is not unconstitutional as depriving one attempting to sell liquor in that if the State in
which such sale is prohibited of his liberty or property without due process
of law or denying him the equal protection of the laws.

THE plaintiff in error was committed to custody upon a
warrant for violating the law of Ohio called the "Beal Local
Option Law." He petitioned in habeas corpus for his discharge to one of the judges oLthe State having jurisdiction.
On hearing he was remitted to custody and the judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. This writ of
error was then sued out. The question involved is the constitutionality of the law.
The facts constituting the violation of the law were alleged
to be the unlawful selling and furnishing to one E. L. Scott,
a resident of the city of Cambridge, six pints of beer, and with
keeping a place where intoxicating liquors are kept for sale,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

given away and furnished for beverage purposes. The sale
was not within any of the exceptions of the law.
In the petition for habeas corpus it was alleged that plaintiff
in error was arrested by a constable of the township of Cambridge, upon a warrant issued by a justice of the peace in and
for the township of Center, Guernsey County, Ohio, which
township is outside of the geographical boundaries of the city
of Cambridge, where the violation of the, law was claimed to
have occurred.
That by virtue of the arrest plaintiff in error was committed
to jail in the county of Guernsey, and there imprisoned by
J. B. Dollison, the sheriff of the county.
Mr. F. S. Monnett, with whom Mr. D. F. Pugh and Mr. R.
M. Nevin were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. B. Wheeler, with whom Mr. A. V. Taylor was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The petition alleged that the law violated the constitution
of the State in certain particulars. We omit the allegations,
as the Supreme Court of the State decided against their sufficiency, and its judgment is not open to our review.
Wherein the law offends the Constitution of the United
States was expressed as follows:
"It contravenes section 1, article 14, of the Constitution of
the United States, in that it denies to this defendant and other
persons within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law;
it deprives said defendant and other citizens of their liberty
and property without due process of law; it contravenes article 5 of the Constitution of the United States; it contravenes
article 6 of the Constitution of the United States, in that the
accused cannot enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial

LLOYD v. DOLLISON.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by an impartial jury of the State and d; triet wherein the
crime is and shall have been committed, which district shall
have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed
of the nature and cause of the accusation in this, to wit, that
said jury cannot be selected by any previously enacted law
from the territorial district, to wit, of the city of Cambridge,
which district, and within which district alone, said crime, if
any, is, was and could have been committed."
All of these objections, however, are not open to the plaintiff
in error to make. It is well established that the first eight
articles of the amendments to the Constitution of the United
States have reference to powers exercised by the government
of the United States, and not to those of the States. Eilenbecker v. Plymouth County, 134 U. S.31. Our consideration,
therefore, must be confined to the contentions under the
Fourteenth Amendment. Those contentions are that the Ohio
statute denies plaintiff in error the equal protection of the law
and deprives him of liberty and property without due process
of law.
The first contention can only be sustained if the statute
treat plaintiff in error differently from what it does others
who are in the same situation as he. That is, in the same
relation to the purpose of the statute. The statute is too long
to quote at length. It is a local option law. It permits the
municipal corporations of the State to prohibit "the selling,
furnishing and giving away of intoxicating liquors as a beverage, or the keeping of a place where such liquors are sold, kept
for sale, given away or furnished." It excepts druggists in
certain cases and manufacturers when selling in wholesale
quantities to "bona fide dealers trafficking in intoxicating
liquors or in wholesale quantities to any party residing outside
of the limits of said municipality." What constitutes a "giving away" is expressed in the statute as follows: "The'words,
'giving away,' where they occur in this act, shall not apply
to the giving away of intoxicating liquors by a person in his
private dwelling, unless such private dwelling is a place of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

public resort." By a subsequent statute it was enacted that
each railway corporation which shall maintain or conduct
dining or buffet cars upon any one of its trains and shall desire
to dispense intoxicating liquors on such cars may do so by
obtaiiiing a license from the State upon the payment of $300
or $700, accordingly, as the corporation operates either 200
or 700 miles of railway within the State. It is not clear
whether plaintiff in error relies on that act as a part of the
other and an addition to its discriminations. Assuming him
to do so, the exceptions in the statute are druggists, manufacturers, persons who give away liquors in their private
dwellings, and railway corporations dispensing liquors in dining and buffet cars under state license.
These exceptions constitute the inequalities of the statute
upon which plaintiff in error bases his contention. He is not
one of the excepted classes. He is a retail dealer of liquor;
may be a saloon keeper, but of that the record does not clearly
inform us. If between his occupation and the excepted occupation there is such difference as to justify a difference of
legislation, necessarily he -cannot complain, and, we think,
there is a manifest difference. It is equally manifest if we
should regard him as "giving away" his liquor. That act may
not have the same objectionable consequences when done in
a private dwelling as when done in a saloon or other place of
business. The State may look beyond the mere physical
passing of liquor from one person to another and regard and
constitute the place where it is done the essence of the offense.
But even if the discriminations of the statute were less obviously justifiable we might not be able to condemn them.
Missouri, Kansas & Texas R. R. Co. v. May, ante, p. 267.
Plaintiff in error further urges that to make an act a crime
in certain territory and permit it outside of such territory is to
deny to the citizens of the State the equal operation of the
criminal laws,, and this he charges against and makes a ground
of objection to the Ohio statute. This objection goes to thepower of the State to.pass a local option law, which, we think,

LLOYD v. DOLLISON.
194 U. S.

O1i1nion of the Court.

is not an open question. The power of the State over the
liquor traffic we have had occasion very recently to decide.
We said, affirming prior cases, the sale of liquor by retail may
be absolutely prohibited by a State. Cronin v. Adams, 192
U. S. 108. That being so, the power to prohibit it conditionally
was asserted, and the 'local option law of the State of Texas
was sustained. Rippey v. Texas, 193 U. S. 504.
The next contention of plaintiff in error is that under the
statute he is not on equal terms with all others accused of
crime. He attempts to support this contention by a provision of the constitution of Ohio and a decision of the Supreme
Court of that State. By the constitution of the State those
charged with crimes are guaranteed "a speedy, public trial
by an impartial jury of the county or district in which the
offence is alleged to have been committed." The Supreme
Court, considering this provision, said in Cooper v. State, 16
Ohio St. 328:
"The right of the accused to an impartial jury cannot be
abridged. To secure this right it is necessary that the body
of triers should be composed of men indifferent between the
parties and otherwise capable of discharging their duty as
jurors,

.

.

. This duty is enjoined by the constituti6n,.

and, it is true, cannot be impaired or the right abridged by
legislative action."
Applying the constitution and the decision, plaintiff in error
asserts -that the district in which his offense was committed
was necessarily the area of the operation of the statute, and
it is only jurors selected from such district- that will be indifferent between the State and him. It is only such jurors,
he urges, that are his peers, and he defines a peer to be one
"capable of committing a like crime and suffering a like punishment and liable to a like disgrace."
There are two answers to the contention, First, it must be
inferred from the decisi6n of the Supreme Court in the case at
bar that plaintiff in error does not construe correctly either
the constitution of the State or the opinion he cites. Second,
VOL. cxeiv-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

plaintiff in error has not yet been tried. What the courts of
the State may decide as to jurors we do not wish to anticipate,
and plaintiff in error cannot complain until he is made to
suffer.
The final contention of plaintiff in error is that the statute
of Ohio deprives him of due process of law. The only additional argument advanced on this contention is that the statute
does not define the words "wholesale" and "retail," and fails
to limit the amount of the fine or penalty to be imposed by the
court. This omission of the General Assembly, it is said, vests
legislative power in the judiciary, which cannot be done in a
republican form of government.
Of this contention we need only observe that if a case can
exist in which the kind or degree of power given by a State
to its tribunals may become an element of due process under
the Fourteenth Amendment, it would have to be a more extreme example than the Ohio statute. Wholesale and retail
are pretty well known terms, and present less uncertainties
than many terms submitted to courts for interpretation. Besides, would it not be strange to hold that a statute unaccompanied by a glossary of its terms leaves unfulfilled the legislative
power?
The statute declares a person guilty of a violation of its provisions to be guilty of a misdemeanor and imposes a penalty
for a first and second offense a maximum and minimum fine,
and for any subsequent offense a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars and imprisonment of not more than sixty days
and not less than ten days. Revised Statutes of Ohio, sections 4364-20b. As we understand the argument of plaintiff
in error, his objection is directed to the penalty for the third
and subsequent offenses. We might dispose of the objection
by saying it anticipates the future too much. He is not niow
concerned with that penalty. He has not-yet been convicted
of a first offense as far as the record shows. Indeed the charge
against him presumably is based on his first offense. But
considering him entitled to make the objection, we may answer

DAVIS v. MILLS.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

it and close the discussion by observing that it is not an extreme discretion to commit to the judgment of a court in the.
manner provided by the Ohio statute the amount of punishment to fix for illegal liquor selling.
Judgment affirmed.

DAVIS v. MILLS.
CERTIFICATE *FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

No. 235. Argued April 19, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

Section 554 of the Montana Code of Civil Procedure, limiting actions to
enforce a special statutory director's liability to three years, applies to
liabilities incurred before its passage under a differeit statute and goes
with them as a qualification when they are sued upon in other States.
If such a statute of limitations allows over a year in which to sue upon an
existing cause of action it is sufficient. A statute of limitations may bar
an existing right as well as the remedy.

THIS case came here on a certificate of which the following
is the material portion:
"The plaintiff is a citizen of Montana and- the owner by
assignment of three causes of action (for goods sold and on a
promissory note) against the Obelisk Mining and Concentrating Company, a Montana corporation. The indebtedness of
the company upon these causes of action accrued July 31,
1892, July 1, 1892, and December 12, 1892, respectively The
defendants are and always have been citizens and residents of
Connecticut, and at all the times mentioned in the complaint
were trustees of the said Obelisk Mining Company. The statutes of Montana provide that within twenty days from the
first day of September every such company shall annually file
a specified report, and that if it 'shall fail to do so, all the
trustees of the company shall be jointly and severally liable

