OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

MORRIS v. HITCHCOCK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT

OF

APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 272.

Submitted April 29, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

The constitutionality of the Curtis Act, 30 Stat. 495, for the protection of
the Indian Territory has been settled by this court and is not now open
to question. Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445; Cherokee Nation
v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294.
The act of the Chickasaw Nation, approved by the Governor May 5, 1902,
and by the President of the United States May 15, 1902, prescribing
privilege or permit taxes, and the regulations of the Secretary of the
Interior of June 3, 1902, governing the introduction by non-citizens of
live stock in the Chickasaw Nation are valid, and not an exercise of
arbitrary power, and they do not in any respect violate the Constitution
of the United States.

THIS is an equity suit begun in the Supreme Court of the

District of Columbia by Edwin T. Morris and nine other- persons, all averred to be citizens' of the United States and not
Indians, against Ethan A. Hitchcock, as Secretary of the Department of the Interior, William -A. Jones, as Commissioner
of Indian Affairs, J. George Wright, as Indian inspector, and
J. Blair Shoenfelt, as United States Indian agent, resident at
the city of Muscogee, in the Indian Territory. Certain of the
complainants were averred to be residents either of the State
of Texas or of the State of Missouri, and others were averred
to be residents of the Indian Territory.
It was alleged that each complainant was the owner in his
own right of not less than five hundred head of cattle and
horses, of the value of not less than fifteen dollars per head,
which were grazing upon land in the Chickasaw Nation, Indian Territory, under contracts with individual members of
said tribe, holding such lands as their approximate shares

MORRIS v. HITCHCOCK.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

upon allotments to be made. The purpose of the suit was to
obtain a decree perpetually enjoining said defendants from
seizing, molesting or removing the cattle and horses of plaintiffs from the Indian Territory, as it was averred they threatened to do under the pretended authority of an act of the
legislature of the Cherokee Nation and regulations promulgated
by the Secretary of the Interior, which were averred to be
repugnant to the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States. The statute and regulations
referred to are copied in the margin.'
Regulations (June 3, 1902,) Governing the Introduction by Non-citizens of
Live Stock in the Chickasaw Nation, Indian Territory.
Section 29 of the act.of Congress, approved June 28, 1898, 30 Stat. 495,
ratifying the agreement with the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, Indian
Territory, provides in part as follows:
"It is further agreed that no act, ordinance or resolution of the council
of either the Choctaw or Chickasaw tribes, in any manner affecting the land
of the tribe, or of the individuals, after allotment, or the moneys or other
property of the tribe or citizens thereof (except appropriations for the
regular and necessary expenses of the government of the respective tribes,)
or the rights of any persons to employ any lind *oflabor; or the rights of any
persons who have taken or may take the oath of allegiance to the United
States, shall be of any validity until approved by the President of the
United States. When such acts, ordinances or resolutions, passed by the
councils of either of said tribes, shall be approved by the governor thereof,
then it shall be the duty of the national secretary of said tribe to forward
them to the President of the United States, duly certified and sealed, who
shall, within thirty days after their reception, approve or.disapprove the
same said acts, ordinances or resolutions, when so approved, shall be
published in at least two newspapers having a bona fide circulation in the
tribe to be affected thereby, and when disapproved shall be returned to the
tribe enacting the same.
"It is further agreed, in view of the modification of legislative authority
and judicial jurisdiction herein provided, and the necessity of the continuance of the tribal governments so modified, in order to carry out the
requirements of this agreement, that the same shall continue for a period
of eight years from the fourth day of March, eighteen hundred and ninetyeight."
Under these provisions, the following act of the Chickasaw national
council, approved by the governor on May 3, 1902, was approved by the
President of the United States on May 15, 1902, and entitled:

VOL. cxciv-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

The bill of complaint was demurred to upon the grounds following: (a) Want of jurisdiction in equity because of adeAn act to prescribe privilege or permit taxes and defining the manner of
their collection.
Be it enacted by the legislature of the Chickasaw Nation:
SEc. 1. That there shall be paid upon live stock owned or held by noncitizens within the limits of the Chickasaw Nation, an annual privilege or
permit tax as follows: On cattle, horses and mules, twenty-five cents per
head; and on sheep and goats, five cents per head: Provided, That there shall
be exempted from the provisions of this act, when owned and used by the
head of a family, two cows and calVes, and one team, consisting of two
horses or two mules, or one horse and one mule; and the provisions of this
act shall also apply to all live stock introduced into the Chickasaw Nation
since January 1, 1902, upon which the tribal taxes imposed by the laws of
the Chickasaw Nation have not been paid, with like force and effect as if
such cattle had been owned and held within the limits of Chickasaw Nation
for one year prior to the passage and approval of this act.
SEc. 2. That such privilege or permit taxes shall hereafter be payable to
such person or persons and collected under such rules and regulations as
may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior.
SEc. 3. That the expenses of collecting such privilege or permit taxes
shall be deducted from the gross collections, and the balance paid quarterly
into the treasury of the Chickasaw Nation.
Src. 4. That such privilege or permit taxes shall be due and payable
annually, upon demand, and if such taxes are not paid when demanded,
the live stock upon which such taxes are due shall be held to be in the
Chickasaw Nation without its consent, and unlawfully upon the lands of
the Chickasaws, and the presence of such live stock, and owners or holders
thereof, within the limits of said nation, shall be deemed detrimental to the
peace and welfare of the Chickasaw Indians.
SEc.5. That all acts or parts of acts in conflict herewith, be and the same
are, hereby repealed; and this act shall take effect from and after its approval by the President of the United States.
In pursuance of the above and foregoing the following regulations are
promulgated:
Regulations Prescribedby the Secretary of the Interior Governing the Introduction or Holding of Live Stock in the Chickasaw Nation by Non-citizens.
.Sac. 1. Any person, other than a recognized citizen of the Choctaw or
Chickasaw Nations, desiring to introduce or hold stock of any description
within the limits of the-Chickasaw Nation, Indian Territory, shall first make
application to the United States Indian inspector for the Indian Territory,
Muscogee, Indian Territory, and shall pay to the United States Indian
agent, Union agency, an annual tax of twenty-five (25) cents per head on
all cattle, horses and mules, and on all sheep and goats five (5) cents per

MORRIS v. HITCHCOCK.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

quate right to relief at law; (b) Defect of necessary parties
in that neither the Chickasaw Nation or tribe, or any inenihead, provided that there shall be exempted from the. provisions of these
regulations, when owned and used by the head of a family, two cows and'
calves, and one team of horses, or two mules, or one horse and one mule.
SEc. 2. Such tax shall be paid January 1st of each year, or prior to the
time of the introduction of such stock, and accompanying such remittance
there shall be furnished, under oath, a full description of such'stock, including the number and brands, together with any other desired information.
SEc. 3. Such taxes shall apply to all stock introduced within the limits
of the Chickasaw Natibn since January 1, 1902, upon which taxes have not
already been paid to the Chickasaw Nation and for which the owners or
holders cannot produce receipts.
SEC. 4. The tax prescribed shall be paid annually in advance, whether
such stock is held the entire succeeding twelve months or for a portion of
such time.
SEc. 5. Where cattle are held by 4 citizen and mortgaged to a non-citizen,
not in good faith but for the purpose of evading the payment of taxes, said
cattle shall be considered as owned or held by such non-citizen, and subject
to these regulations and taxes.
Suc. 6. Parties who now hold 4tock within the limits of the Chickasaw
Nation should remit the taxes prescribed promptly to the U. S. Indian
agent at Muscogee, Indian Territory, and such payments must be made
within ten (10) days from the date of receiving notice of these regulations.
If such taxes are not paid within this time remittances made thereafter will
not be accepted, but such stock and any other stock found within the limits
of the Chickasaw Nation after July 1, 1902, dpon which taxes have not
been paid, will be considered as being within the limits of the Chickasaw
Nation unlawfully, and measures will be adopted looking to the removal
by the United States Indian agent of such stock, together with the owners
of SEc.
holders thereof, without further notice.
7. Authorized agents of the Interior Department
will make necessary investigations and reports and see that proper remittances are forwarded, acting under the direction of the United States Indian inspector
for Indian Territory, but will not be authorized to receive or collect any
taxes whatsoever, as all payments must be made direct to the United States
Indian agent, who will furnish receipts for all payments made.
SEc 8. These regulations and taxes will apply to all stock as indicated,
held within the limits of the Chickasaw Nation by other than recognized
citizens of the Choctaw or Chickasaw Nations, whether held upon the
public domain or upon lands leased from individual Indians.
iTHos. RYAN, Acting Secretary.
Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C.
Approved June 3, 1902.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

ber or representative thereof, was joined as a defendant; and
(c) Want of equity.
After argument, the court overruled the first and second
grounds of demurrer, and sustained the third ground. The
complainants elected to stand upon, their bill of complaint
and a decree was consequently entered dismissing the bill.
On appeal, the decree was affirmed by the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia. 21 App. D. C. 565. The cause
was then brought to this court.
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, Mr. FrederickL. Siddons and Messrs.
Davis & Garnett for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Campbell and Mr. Assistant
Attorney A. C. Campbell for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
We think the court below was right in holding that the first
and second grounds of demurrer were not well taken, but do
not think it necessary to review the subject, as the opinion
which we have reached on the merits of the case will dispose
of the entire controversy.
The act of Congress approved June 28, 1898, commonly
known as the Curtis Act, 30 Stat. 495, c. 517, under which
the act of the Chickasaw Nation and regulations of the Secretary of the Interior which are assailed were adopted, is entitled "An act for the protection of the people of the Indian
Territory, and for other purposes." The question of the validity and construction of that act was under consideration in
Stephens v. Cherokee Notion, 174 U. S 445, and Cherokee Nation
v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294, and in view of the rulings in those
cases the constitutionality of the statute is not now open to
question.
While it is unquestioned that by the Constitution of the
United States Congress is vested with paramount power to

MORRIS v. HITCHCOCK.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

regulate commerce with the Indian tribes, yet it is also undoubted that in treaties entered into with the Chickasaw Nation, the right of that tribe to control the presence within the
territory assigned to it of persons who might otherwise be
regarded as intruders has been sanctioned, and the duty of
the United States to protect the Indians "from aggression by
other Indians and white persons, not subject to their jurisdiction and laws," has also been recognized. Arts. 7 and 14,
Treaty June 22, 1855, 11 Stat. 611 ; Art. 8, Treaty April 28,
1866, 14 Stat. 769. And it is not disputed that under the
authority of these treaties the Chickasaw Nation has exercised the power to attach conditions to the presence within
its borders of persons who Aiight otherwise not be entitled to
remain within the tribal territory.
Legislation of the same general character as that embodied
in the act of the legislature of the Chickasaw Nation here assailed as invalid had been enacted by the Chickasaw Nation
before the passage of the -Curtis Act. The essential provisions
of one such law, passed on October 17, 1876, were recited in
a report made to the Senate by the Committee on the Judiciary, on February 3,1879, from which we copy the following:
"The law in question seems to have a twofold object-to
prevent the intrusion of unauthorized persons into the territory of the Chickasaw Nation, and to raise revenue. By its
terms no citizen of any State or Territory of the United States
dan either rent land or procure employment in'the Chickasaw
country without entering into a contract with a Chickasaw,
which contract the latter is to report to the clerk of the
county where he resides, and a permit must be obtained for a
time not longer than twelve months, for which the citizen is
to pay the sum of $25.
" Every licensed merchant, trader, and every physician, not
a Chickasaw, is required to obtain a permit, for which the sum
of $25 is exacted."
Declaring in substance that under the existing treaties with
the tribe, the Chickasaws were not prohibited from excluding

IOCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

from the territory of the nation the persons affected by the
act, the committee expressed the opinion that the act which
was the subject of the report was not invalid.
Again, on December 14, 1898, the legislature of the Chickasaw Nation passed an act, which in section 2, with some exemptions mentioned in a proviso, imposed the following permit
taxes:
"SEc. 2. That any non-citizen who owns horses, jacks, jennets, mules, or other cattle, and who holds them upon the
public domain or within the Chickasaw Nation, shall be required to pay an annual permit tax of twenty-five cents per
head for each horse, jack or jennet, mule, or bovine, and five
cents per head for each sheep and goat so held within this
nation."
By the ninth section of the same act it was provided as follows:
"SEC. 9. That any non-citizen, subject to a permit tax under, th provisions of section one of this act, and who shall
refuse to pay his permit tax, after due notice for thirty days,
shall be deemed an intruder by virtue of the intercourse law
of the United States of America and subject to removal; and
such intruder: shall be reported to the United States Indian
agent (or inspector) to the Five Civilized Tribes, and shall
forthwith be removed from the Chickasaw Nation, under the
direction of the said United States Indian agent or inspector."
The agreement made by the commission to the Five Civilized Tribes with the commissions representing the Choctaw
and Chickasaw tribes of Indians on April 23, 1897, as amended
by the Curtis Act, was in section 29 of that act ratified and
confirmed and made, operative on December 1, 1898.
By that agreement certain modifications, not material to
be stated, were made in the legislative authority and judicial jurisdiction of the tribal governments, and, so modified,
the tribal governments were continued in. force, and are to so
continue until March 4, 1906. One of the clauses of the
agreement reads as follows:

MORRIS v. HITCHCOCK.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"It is further agreed that no act, ordinance or resolution
of the council of either the Choctaw or Chickasaw tribes, in
any manner affecting the land of the tribe, or of the individuals, after allotment, or the moneys or other property of
the tribe or citizens thereof, (except appropriations for the
regular and necessary expenses of the government of the respective tribes,) or the right of any persons to employ any
kind of labor, or the rights of any persons who have taken or
may take the oath of allegiance to the United States, shall
be of any validity until approved by the President of the
United States. When such acts, ordinances, or resolutions
passed by the council of either of said tribes shall be approved by the governor thereof, then it shall be the duty of
the national secretary of said tribe to forward them to the
President of the United States, duly certified and sealed, who
shall, within thirty days after their reception, approve or disapprove the same. Said acts, ordinances, or resolutions, when
so approved, shall be published in at least two newspapers
having a bona fide circulation in the tribe to be affected
thereby, and when disapproved shall be returned to the tribe
enacting the same."
On September 17, 1900, and September 21, 1901, the proper
construction of the Curtis Act was considered, at the request
of the Secretary of the Interior, in opinions of Attorney General Griggs and Attorney General Knox respectively. In the
first of those opinions it was in substance held as follows:
"Under the treaties with the Five Civilized Tribes of Indians no person not a citizen or member of a tribe, or belonging to the exempted classes, can be lawfully within the
limits of the country occupied by these tribes without their
permission, and they have the right to impose the terms upon
which such permission will be granted.
"The provisions of the act of June 28, 1898, 30 Stat. 495,
for the organization of cities and towns in said Indian country and the extinguishment of Indian title therein have not
yet been consummated, and it is still Indian country. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

act does not deprive these Indians of the power to enact
laws with regard to licenses or taxes, nor exempt purchasers
of town or city lots from the operation of such legislation.
"Purchasers. of lots do so with notice of existing Indian
treaties and with full knowledge that they can only occupy
them by permission from the Indians. Such lands are sold
under the assumption that the purchasers will comply with
the local laws.
"Sections 2147 to 2150, inclusive, of the Revised Statutes,
expressly confer the right to use the military forces of the
United States in ejecting trespassers upon Indian lands, and
the grant of this power carries with it the duty of its exercise.
"It is the duty of the Department of the Interior to remove all classes forbidden by treaty or law who are within the
domain of -the Five Civilized Tribes without Indian permission; to close all businesses which require permit or license and
are being conducted without the same; and to remove all cattle which are being pastured on said land without Indian permit or license."
And in the last-mentioned opinion it was in substance declared that, under section 16 of the Curtis Act, the Secretary
of the Interior had authority to collect a tribal tax irfiposed by
the laws of the Cherokee Nation of Indians upon the exportation of prairie hay from that nation, and that the tax was just
as applicable to hay raised upon lands occupied by individual
members .of the nation as their share of the public domain,
pending allotments, as in any other case, and would be so
even if the shipper was the absolute owner of the land on
which the hay was raised.
Since the rendition of these opinions of the legal advisers of
the Government, Congress. has created an express exception in
favor of owners of jown -lots,prohibiting their being proceeded
against as intruders, but has not ligislated against the enforcement of the legislation now under review, which was then
operative. Thus,.on May 27, 1902, in the Indian Appropria.tion Act, 32 Stat. 259, c. 858, it was provided "That it shall

MORRIS v. HITCHCOCK.
194 u. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be hereafter unlawful to remove or deport any person- from
the Indian Territory who is in lawful possession of any lots
or parcels of land in any town or city in the Indian Territory
which has been designated as a townsite under existing laws
and treaties, and no part of this appropriation shall be used
for the deportation or removal of any such person from Indian
Territory."
Viewing the Curtis Act in the light of the previous decisions
of this court and the dealings between the Chickasaws and
the United States, we are of opinion that one of the objects
occasioning the adoption of that act by Congress, having in
view the peace and welfare of the Chickasaws, was to permit
the continued exercise, by the legislative body of the tribe,
of such a power as is here complained of, subject to a veto
power in the President over such legislation as a preventive
of arbitrary and injudicious action.
The refusal to pay the permit tax in question caused the
cattle and horses of the complainants to be wrongfully within
the Territory, and we cannot decline to recognize such fact
because of the hardships which it is alleged must arise if the
act and regulations are enforced. Being of opinion that the
regulations of the Secretary of the Interior are 'valid, and
that the act of the legislature of the Chickasaw Nation approved by the governor on May 5, 1902, and sanctioned by
the President of the United States on May 15, 1902, was not
the exercise of arbitrary power as claimed, and that neither
the act nor the regulations in any respect violate the Constitu-_
tion of the United States, it follows that the judgment below
is correct, and it must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

