OCTOBER TERM, 1903,
194 U. S.

Syllabus.

with treaty obligations," taken in connection with this provision in article 4 of the treaty with China, proclaimed December 8, 1894, "that Chinese laborers or Chinese of any other
class, either permanently or temporarily residing in the Unitdd
States, shall have for the protection of their persons and property all rights that are given by the laws of the United States
to citizens of the most favored nation, excepting the right to
become naturalized citizens." I am not astonished at the
report current in the papers that China has declined to continue
this treaty for another term of ten years.
Finally, let me say that the time has been when many young
men from China came to our educational institutions to pursue
their studies, when her commerce sought our shores, and her
people came to build our railroads, and when China looked upon
this country as her best friend. If all this be reversed and the
most populous nation on earth becomes the great antagonist of
this republic, the careful student of history will recall the words
of Scripture, "they have sown the wind, and they shall reap
the whirlwind," and for cause of such antagonism need look
no further than the treatment accorded during the last twenty
years by this country to the people of that nation.
I am authorized to say that MR.JUSTICE
in this dissent.

PECKHAM

concurs

GIBSONv. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 195.

Argued April 8,1904.-Decided April 25, 1904.

Under § 1444, Rev. Stat., and § 11 of the Navy Personnel Act of March 3,
1899, a captain in the navy who is retired as a rear admiral receives
three-fourths of the pay of rear admirals in the nine lower numbers of
the eighteen rear admirals provided for by the act and not three-fourths of
the pay of those in the nine higher numbers.

GIBSON v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

While repeals by implication are not favored where the same subject matter is covered by two acts which cannot be harmonised with a view to
giving effect to the provisions of each, the latter act prevails, to the extent of the repugnancy between them when it is apparent that the latter
act was intended as a substitute for the earlier one. District of Columbia
v. Iutton, 143 U. S. 18.
Provisions as to allowances which are fixed for naval officers in the Navy
Personnel Act of March 3, 1899, supersede the statutory provisions as to
the same allowances in the earlier statutes.

THIS is an appeal from the Court of Claims. The claimant
is a retired rear admiral. This action was prosecuted to recover the difference between three-fourths the pay of a brigadier general and that of a major general of the Army, accorded
by statute to retired rear admirals. The Court of Claims dismissed the petition, holding the claimant entitled to threefourths the pay of a brigadier general. Upon the hearing in
that court the following facts were found:
"I. The claimant, William C. Gibson, was duly appointed
a captain in the Navy, to rank from February 18, 1900. While
serving in that grade, then being an officer of the Navy, with a
creditable rec( rd, who served during the-civil war, he was
retired by the following order:
"'Navy Department.
June 30, 1900.
"'Sir: On July 23, 1900, you will regard yourself transferred
to the retired list of officers of the U. S. Navy, in accordance
with-the provisions of section 1444 of the Revised Statutes, and
with the rank and three-fourths of the sea pay of the next
higher grade, i. e., rear admiral, in accordance with the provisions of section 11 of the Naval Personnel Act, approved
March 3, 1899.
"'Respectfully,
JOHN D. LONG,
"'WASHINGTON,

"

'Secretary.

"'Captain William C. Gibson, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Texas.'
"II. Since his retirement he has received pay at the rate of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

194 U. S.

four thousand one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($4,125)
a year, being three-fourths of five thousand five hundred dollars, ($5,500,) the pay fixed by section 1261 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States as that of a brigadier general in
the Army.
"If paid at the rate fixed by said section 1261 for a major
general in the Army, he would receive pay at the rate of threefourths of seven thousand five hundred dollars a year, being
five thousand six hundred and twenty-five dollars ($5,625) a
year, a difference of over and above what he has been receiving
of one thlousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) a year.
"III. .From January 22, 1900, to July 3, 1900, inclusive,
claimant was, by regular assignment, in command of the
U. S. S. Texas, a seagoing vessel in commission. During that
period he was, prior to the 18th of February, a commander in
receipt of pay at the rate of four thousand dollars ($4,000) a
year, and from and after that date a captain, receiving pay at
the rate of four thousand five hundred dollars ($4,500) a year.
He did not, while so attached to and in command of said vessel,
receive any sea ration or contmutation therefor, under Revised
Statutes, sections 1578 and 1585.
"The commutation therefor at the rate of thirty cents per
day would amount to forty-eight dollars and ninety cents
($48.90)."
Mr. George A. King and Mr. William B. King for appellant:
1. The word "grade' as used in section 11 has the same
meaning as when used in'section 7-that is, when a captain
is retired Under section 11, " the next higher grade" into which
he goes is the "grade" of rear admiral as it is styled in section 7. "Three-fourths the sea pay of" that grade refers to
the normal pay of the grade-that is, the pay of a majorgeneral in the Army-not an exceptional rate of pay specifically attached to nine numbers in the grade of rear admiral,
of which nine this claimant is not one. United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141, 165; Minis v: United States, 15 Pet. 423, 445;

GIBSON v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Ryan v. Carter,93 U. S. 78,83; Army Regulations (ed. of 1901),
Art. Ill; Schuetze v. United States, 24 C. Cl. 299; 1 Opinions Attorneys General, 578, 582; 19 Opinions Attorneys General, 169.
2. Tlie Personnel Act grants commissioned officers of the line
of the Navy and of the medical and pay corps the same pay
and allowances, except forage, as Army officers. Thereby they
get the pay of Army officers in lieu of Navy pay; when traveling, Army mileage in lieu of Navy mileage; when ashore, Army
allowances of -quarters or commutation and fuel, which they
had not before. These the law grants them in express terms;
by necessary implication their Navy pay and Navy mileage
for which there is an Army equivalent are taken away. The
benefit to them in the way of allowances is entirely when on
shore. There would be uo inconsistency between the retention of the Navy sea ration and the grant of Army allowances
for shore duty made by the act. Hartford v. United States, 8
Cranch, 109'McCool v. Smith, 1 Black, 470; Ex parte Yeager, 8
Wall. 105; Distilled Spirits, 11 Wall. 365; Henderson's Tobacco,
11 Wall. 657; Red Rock v. Henry, 106 U. S. 601; Frostv. Wenie,
157 U. S. 46, 58; Black on Interpretation of Laws, 116; Sedgwick (2d ed.), Pomeroy's Notes, p. 97; Potter's Dwarris, p. 273;
United States -v.Greathouse, 166 U. S. 501; United States v.
Healey, 160 U. S. 136.
Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., with whom Mr. Charles L. Frailey
was on the brief, for appellant in No. 212, argued simultaneously
with this case:
There is no language in the sections of the Navy "Personnel
Act" applicable to this case which provides that officers of the
Navy with the rank of captain, who retire with the rank and
three-fourths sea pay of the next higher grade, are to be included among the nine lower numbers of the active list of the
rear admirals, or that there is a pay gra(le formed by the niiie
lower numbers of rear admirals on the active list within which
the retiring officers above mentioned are to be included.
Where the meaning of a statute is plain and there is no

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

ambiguity it is the duty of the courts to enforce it according
to its obvious terms and not to insert words and phrases so as
to incorporate therein a new and distinct provision. This
principle of construction is applicable in this case. Lake
County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662, 673; United States v. Tyler,
105 U. S. 244; Thornley v. United States, 113 U. S. 310; United
States v. Graham, 119 U. S. 219; United States v. Temple, 105
U. S. 97; Farnsworthv. Montana, 129 U. S. 104; Hamilton v.
Rathbone, 175 U. S. 414.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradt,with whom Mr. Special
Attorney Thompson was on the brief, for the United States,
cited as to construction of the Navy Personnel Act, Rodgers
v. United States, 36 C. C1. 275; 185 U. S.91, and opinion of
Court of Claims in Thomas v. United States, 38 C. Cl. 113, and,
as to the construction of the statute, Dist. Colinmbia v. Hutton, 143 U. S. 18, 26. A revision is meant to take the place
of the law as previously formulated. Batlett v. King, cited in
Sutherland on Statutory Construction, § 154; King v. Cornell,
106 U. S. 395.
MR. JUsric, DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The first question presented is whether a captain in the
Navy retired as a rear admiral, under section 1444 of the
Revised Statutes of the 'United States and section 11 of the
Navy Personnel Act, shall receive three-fourths of the pay
of the rear admirals in the nine higher numbers in the list of
rear admirals or the like proportion of the pay of: the nine
lower numbers of the eighteen rear admirals.
Section 1444 of the Revised Statutes provides: "When any
officer below the rank -of vice admiral is sixty-two years old
he shall, except in the case provided in the next section, bo
retired by the President from active service."
Section 11 of the Navy Personnel Act reads: "That any
officer of the Navy, with a creditable record, who served' during

GIBSON r'. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Co'urt,

the civil war, shall, when retired, be retired with the rank and
three-ourths the sea .pay of the next higher, grade." 30 Stat.
1004, 1007.
Section 13 provides: "That after June thirtieth, eighteen
hundred and ninety-nine,.commissioned officers of the line of the
Navy and of the Medical and Pay Corps shall receive the same
pay and allowances, except forage, as are or may be provided
by or in pursuance of law for the officers of corresponding rank
in the Army."
In the first proviso of section 7 of said act, provision having
been made for eighteen rear admirals in the active list of the
line of the Navy, it is enacted as follows: "Pro'ided,That each
rear admiral embraced in the nine lower numbers of that grade
shall receive the same pay and allowance as are now allowed
a brigadier general in the Army." 30 Stat. 1005.
The claimant at the time of his retirement was a captain in
the United States Navy, who had served during the civil war,
and was retired, by order of the Secretary of the Navy, pursuant to section 1444 of the Revised Statutes, with the rank
and with three-quarters of the sea pay of the next higher
grade, in accordance with section 11 of the Navy Personnel
Act above quoted.
By section 1466 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
it is provided:
"The relative rank between officers of the Navy, whether
on the active or retired list, and officers of the Army shall be
as folldws, lineal rank only being considered:
"The vice admiral shall rank with the lieutenant general.
"Rear admirals with major generals.
"Commodores with brigadier generals.
"Captains with colonels.
"Commanders with lieutenant colonels.
"Lieutenant commanders with majors.
"Lieutenants with captains.
"Masters with first lieutenants.
"Ensigns with second lieutenants."

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court,

194 U. S.

Section 1261 fixes the pay of the officers of the Army:
"The officers of the Army shall be entitled to the pay herein
stated after their respective designations:
"The general: thirteen thousand five hundred. dollars a year.
"Lieutenant general: eleven thousand dollars a year.
"Major general: seven thousand five hundred dollars a year.
"Brigadier general: five thousand five hundred dollars a year.
"Colonel: three thousand five hundred dollars a year."
The claim of the appellant is, in substance, that the. pay of
the next higher grade above captain, the three-quarters of
which the appellant is to receive, is the full pay of a rear
admiral, that of a major general, and not what is claimed to be
the exceptional pay for the nine lower number-of that grade
who are to receive the pay and allowance of a brigadier general.
It is admitted in the discussion, that the provision fixing the
pay of the nine rear admirals to correspond with the pay of a
brigadier general, arose from the fact that the relative rank of
officers of the Army and Navy had been so adjusted by statute
as to rank commodores with brigadier generals, and the rank
of commodore being dropped from the service, the pay of a
brigadier general was given to the nine lower numbers of the
rear admirals, who would otherwise have had the rank of
commodores with the corresponding pay of brigadier generals.
The argument for the appellant insists that the language is
plain and so explicit as to need no construction; but the fact
that the rear admirals are divided into two classes for the purposes of pay, and the statute not specifically pointing out which
class of pay shall be given those situated as the claimant is,
leads us to consider the objects to be attained by the new law,
the circumstances under which it was enacted, and to construe
the language used in view of the purpose of Congress in enacting the statute.
There is no question that, had the claimant been promoted
in the active service from captain to rear admiral, he would
have passed into the lower grade of rear admirals, so far at
least as his pay was concerned, and would have received, so

GIBSON v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.,

Opinion of the Court.

long as within that number, the pay of a brigadier general,
notwithstanding that for all other purposes he was entitled
to the rankl and privileges of a rear admiral.
The appellant was promoted, and almost immediately retired; when thus retired, having served during the civil war,
he was given the rank of the next higher grade and threefourths of the sea pay of that grade. Congress had already
created for the purposes of pay a division in the rank or grade
of rear admiral, with higher pay for those of higher number
and lower pay for others in the rank. It-seems to us that it
was the object of Congress, when retiring an officer under the
circumstances stated, that he should receive the pay of the
next higher rank, and, but for the division made in the pay of
rear admirals, he would receive the three-quarters of the full
pay of that rank, but taking one step upward for the purpose
of pay he passes into and not over the next pay grade, which
is that of the nine lower numbers.
In regular gradation in the active service, 'arear admiral, for
the purposes of pay, must first serve through the nine lower
numbers of the grade. So with a retiring officer; it is the
purpose to give him, as compensation in the regular order of
promotion, the pay of the "next higher grade." This conclusion is in harmony with the decision of this court in Rodgers
,v.United States, 185 U. S. 83, 91, in which Mr. Justice Brewer,
speaking for the court, said of this statute:
"The 'individuals thus raised in rank were not so raised on
account of distinguished services or for any personal reason,
but simply in consequence of the abolition of the official rank
they 'had held. Is it unreasonable to believe that Congress
thought it unwise to give to those officers (who had neither by
length of service or by personal distinction become entitled to
the position of rear admiral, as it had stood in the past5 all the
benefits of such position? •Would it be unnatural for Congress
to bear in mind those Who by length of service or by personal
distinction had already earned the position, and provide that
in, at least, the matter of pay there should be some recognition

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

of the fact? Again, is it unreasonable to believe that.Congress
intended that those officers whose past services placed them
according to the prior relative rank side by side with brigadier
generals of the Army, should not-by a mere change of statute
be given a benefit in salary which was not at the same time
accorded to biigadier generals in the Army? May not this
explain its action ifr so dividing the rear admirals into two
classes-one composed substantially of former rear admirals,
equal both in rank and pay with major generals in the Army,
and the other of those who in the past were only commodores,
to whom was given the rank of rear admirals but the pay of
brigadier generals in the Army?"
We cannot believe that it was the intention of Congress that
an officer upon. retirement, and whose promotion shortly before
his retirement was made for the purpose of giving him an increase of pay as well as rank, was intended to-be given the
higher grade of pay reserved for those of distinction or long
service in the grade to which the retiring officer w'as promoted,
leaving those in the active service who earned the right to
promotion to receive the lower grade of pay. In short, we
believe it was the intention of Congress to promote a retiring
officer for the purposes of pay into the next grade above that
in which he served before retirement. In this case such"conipensation was that provided for rear admirals of the lower
grade. If this were not so, a retiring rear admiral would receive, under the circumstances now before us, more pay upon
retirement than is given to the rear admirals in active service,
in the lower Ray grade. It is urged that the promotion and
retirement of those who had rendered- valuable service in the
civil war was the object of Congress, which purpose is best
subserved by construing the statute to give in case of such
promotons the full rank and pay of the grade to which the
officer is promoted. This reasoning may be adequate to furnish a motive for such legislation, but we can only give effect
to purposes expressed or necessarily implied in the terms of the
statute.

GIBSON v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But, it is urged, that in sections 8 and 9 of the Navy Personnel Act, Congress, in providing for retirement of naval
officers, has included the grade of commodores, and provides
that captains within their terms shall be retired with threefourths the pay of the next higher grade, "including the grade
of commodore, which is retained on the retired list for this
purpose," thus evincing the purpose of Congress to retain the
rank and pay of commodores inexpress terms when such is
the purpose. But this reservation is for officers retired under
these sections who are not to rank above commodores, while
officers who served in the civil war and are retired are to have
the full rank of admirals with the pay of the lower grade of the
rank.
We agree with the Comptroller of the Treasury and the
Court of Claims in the construction to be given this statute.
If the purpose of Congress has been mistaken the law can be
corrected by a new enactment making clear the intention to
give the more liberal treatment contended for by the appellant.
The question remains as to the right of this officer to receive
commutation for the sea ration provided for by sections 1578
and 1585 of the Revised Statutes. These sections are:
"SEC. 1578. All officers shall be entitled to one ration, or to
commutation therefor, while at sea or attached to a sea-going

vessel.
"SEC. 1585. Thirty cents shall in all cases- be deemed the
commutation pfice of the navy ration."
The provision of seetion 13 of the Navy Personnel Act is:
Officers of the Navy "shall receive the same pay and allowances, except forage, as are or may be provided by or in pursuance of law for the officers of corresponding rank in the
Army." 30 Stat. 1007.
The claim upon this branch of the case is that sections 1578
and 1585 are not repealed in express terms by section 13 of the
Navy Personnel Act; arid, as repeals by implication are not
favored, it is argued that, notwithstanding the later law, the
allowance for sea rations still remains for naval officers. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

the later act distinctly provides that after June 30, 1899, commissioned officers of the line of the Navy. and of the medical
and pay corps shall receive the same compensation and allowance, except forage, as are or may be provided by or in pursuance of law for the officers of corresponding rank in the
Army. This section was intended to cover and in exact terms
provides for all pay and allowance for naval officers except
forage. Where it is the intention of the statute to make a
distinction or exception in allowance, that exception is expressly stated. The subject matter of the later act provides
for allowances to sfich officers, and it is to be the same as is
now provided by law for Army officers of corresponding rank.
Had Congress intended that such allowances as theretofore
given should be continued, or to reserve the right to commutation as to the sea ration, it would have been very easy to have
inserted apt words which would have rendered effectual ,this
purpose. But the terms of the law undertaking to revise
former laws upon the subject make no such reservation as is
contended for, and we think we are not at liberty to add to
the statute by inserting it.
It is true that repeals by implication are not favored, but
where the-same subject matter is covered by two acts which
cannot be harmonized with'a view to giving effect to the provisifns of each, to the extent of the repugnancy between them
the latter act will prevail, particularly in cases where it is
apparent that the later act was intended as A substitute for
the earlier one. District of Columbia v. Hutton, 143 U. S.
18, 26.
It is admitted that a change in the compensation of naval
officers was made by he enactment of the new law, and, while
section 13 provided that such officers should not be reduced
in pay, there is no provision retaining the allowances of the
former act. Moreover, section 26 of the Navy Personnel Act
provides that all acts and parts of acts, so far as they conflict
with its provisions, shall be repealed. For the reasons stated
we think the allowance of the previous statute cannot stand

LOWE v. UNITED STATES.
S191U.S.

193

Opinion, of the Court.

consistently with the express provision upon the same subject
of the later act.
We find no errorin the judgment of the Court of Claims, and
the same is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

LOWE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 212. Argue4 April 8, 1904.-I)ecide4 April 25, 1904.

Decided on authority of Gibson v. United States, ante, p. 182.

FOR counsel and abstracts of arguments, see p. 184, ante.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered tile opinion of the court.
This case involves the same question, upon identical facts,
as to the pay of a retired rear admiral, just disposed of in the
case of Gibson v. United States, ante.
For the reasons therein stated, the judgment of the Court of
Claims, dismissing the petition of the appellant, is
Affirmed.
'MR. JUSTICE ]3REWER took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
VOL. oxoiv-13

