OCTOBER TERM. 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
MR.

194 U. S.

JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought to obtain by injunction the
same relief as was sought in the preceding case. The facts and
conditions are substantially similar, and for the reasons there
given the appeal will be dismissed without costs to either party.

DAMON v. HAWAII.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 207. Argued April 12,1904.-Decided April 25, 1904.

A general law may grant titles as well as a special law.
The act of Hawaii of 1846, " of Public and Private Rights of Piscary," together with royal grants previously made, created and confirmed rights in
favor of landlords in adjacent fishing grounds within the reef or one mile
to seaward which were vested rights within the saving clause in the
organic act of the Territory repealing all laws of the Republic of Hawaii
conferring exclusive fishing rights.
A statement in a patent of an apuhuaa in, Hawaii that "a fishing right is
also attached to this land in the adjoining sea" and giving the boundaries
thereof, passes the fishery right even if the habendum refers only to the
above granted land.'
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Francis Al. Hatch, with whom Mr. Reuben D.: Silliman
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The statutes of Hawaii from 1839 down on the subject of

fisheries, have given property interests in the fisheries to the
adjoining landowner.

History and usage are to be looked at

in considering these statutes. Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367.
These acts are not to be construed as are conveyances between
individuals. They are laws as well as grants. Railway Co. v.

DAMON v. HAWAII.
194 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Railway Co., 97 U. S. 491; Railway Co. v. Davison, 65 Michigan,
416; Winona & R. Co. v. Barney, 113 U. S. 618; United States
v. Railroad Co., 150 U. S.. 1: Barden v. Nor. Pac. R..R., 154
U. S. 288.
Fishing rights when legally acquired are rights of property,
not mere privileges. Boston v. Lecraw, 17 How. 462; Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 259; McCready v. Virginia,
94 U. S. 391; Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53.
This is conclusively settled in Hawaii by Haalelea v. Montgomery, 2 Hawaii, 62.
The law as settled in Hawaii governs. Tel. Co. v. Manning,
186 U. S. 238; Louisiana v. Pillsbury, 105 U. S. 278; Moody v.
Railroad Co., 146 U. S. 162; Railroad Co. v. Trust Co., 173
U. S. 99.
The "royal patent," under which plaintiff in error claims,
is a muniment of title, under the great seal of a former government, and imports verity. All preliminary acts, involving the
discretion of ministerial officers, are now beyond review.
United States v. Hanson, 16 Pet. 199; Knight v. U. S. Land
Assn., 142 U. S. 183; San Francisco v. Levy, 138 U. S.
671.
The Joint Resolution of Congress of July 7, 1898, annexing
Hawaii to the United States continued in force all municipal
legislation of Hawaii, not inconsistent with the Constitution
of the United States, until Congress should otherwise enact.
The fishery laws of Hawaii were among those continued in
force,
Congress by the organic act for the government of Hawaii,
repealed these fishing laws but saved vested rights. Rights,
therefore, which were vested at the time of the transfer of
sovereignty were protected by the act of Congress establishing
a government for Hawaii. The court below was limited in its
inquiry to a consideration if such rights existed in Hawaii
prior to annexation. It erred in ignoring the saving clause of
the organic act and in repudiating the old law in Hawaii on
the subject.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

194 U. S.

Mr. Lorrin Andrews, Attorney General of the Territory of
Hawaii, for defendant in error:
The royal patent under which the plaintiff in error claimed
a grant did not contain words of conveyance sufficient to pass
title to alleged fishing rights. The recital that a fishery in the
sea is "attached" to the land does not grant the fishery. A
deed to operate as an effectual conveyance should contain
sufficient and proper words. 9 Am. & Eng. Ency. 138; 1
Devlin on Deeds, § 211; McKinney v. Settles, 13 Missouri, 541;
Hemmelman v. Mounts, 87 Indiana, 178.
Government grants of lands, franchises and privileges are
invariably construed in favor of the public and against the
grantee. Charles Bridge v. WarrenBridge, 11 Pet. 539; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 666; Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet.
411; Tucker Y. Ferguson, 22 Wall. 575; Newton v. Commissioners, 100 U. S. 561; Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; Johnson v.
Crowe, 87 Pa. St. 184; Commissioners v. Water Co., 104 Massachusetts, 449; Water Co. v. Water Co., 80 Maine, 563.
The fisheries claimed in this suit did not pass to the plaintiff
in error as an appurtenance to his land. Haalelea v. Montgomery, 2 Hawaii, 70. The right to fish in tide waters is a public
right, which belongs to the State and to all the people, and not
to private individuals. 13 Am. & Eng. Ency.
560; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; Smith v. Maryland, 18 How. 71; Proctor
v. Wells, 103 Massachusetts, 216; Lansing v. Smith, 4 Wend. 9;
Wooley v. Campbell, 37 N. J. Law, 163; State v. Roberts, 59
N. H. 256; Weston v. Sampson, 8 Cush. 347; Lincoln v. Davis,
53 Michigan, 375.
The plaintiff in error was not entitled to any title in said
fisheries through prescription or long continued use. 13 Am.
& Eng. Ency. 581, note 3; Fishing Co. v. Carter, 61 Pa. St. 21.
Prescription can only be based upon the supposition that a
grant was originally made and has been lost or destroyed.
Use or possession being permissive cannot result in the acquisition of title. 1 Am. & Eng. Ency. 794; Kirk v. Smith,
9 Wheat. 288.

DAMON v. HAWAII.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In order to obtain a title in Hawaii a land commission
award or a royal patent must have been obtained, and in no
other way could it have been obtained. Dowsett v. Maukeala,
10 Hawaii, 169; Thurston v. Bishop, 7 Hawaii, 421; Kenoa v.
Meek, 6 Hawaii, 67; Kaai v. Mahuka, 5 Hawaii, 356; Kahoomana v. Minister, 3 Hawaii, 639.
No fishing right could have been obtained by the plaintiff
in error through custom.
No custom can transfer the title of public property to an
individual, and the right to fish cannot be acquired by custom.
13 Am. & Eng. Ency. 583.
Plaintiff in error had no vested right in said fisheries within
the meaning of the organic act of the Territory of Hawaii.
His claims were based merely upon legislative enactments
which were public laws, and all these laws were repealed by
an act to provide a government for the Territory of Hawaii,
passed by the United States Congress in 1900. A mere expectation based upon an anticipated continuance of general
laws cannot be claimed to be a vested right. There can be no
vested right under a public statute relating to a public sub-ject, which does not amount to a grant or contract. Newton
v. Commissioners, 100 U. S. 587; Dobbins v. Bank, 112 Illinois,
562; Phipps v. State, 85 Am.Dec. 654; Pratt v. Brown, 3 Wisconsin, 603; Commissioners v. Water Power Co., 104 Massachussetts, 446; Johnson v. Crowe, 87 Pa. St. 189 ;Lumber Co. v.
Rust, 168 U. S. 589.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, somewhat like a bill to quiet title,
to establish the plaintiff's right to a several fishery of a peculiar
sort, between the coral reef and the ahupuaa of Moanalua on
the main land of the Island of Oahu. The organic act of the
Territory of Hawaii relpealed all laws of the Republic of Hawaii which conferred exclusive fishing rights, subject, however,
to ve~ted rights, and it required actions to be started within

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

two years by those who claimed such rights. Act of April 30,
1900, c. 339, §§ 95, 96; 31 Stat. 14f, 160. At the trial the
presiding judge directed a verdict for the defendant. Exceptions were taken but were overruled by the Supreme Court
of the Territory, and the case comes here by writ of error.
The right claimed is a right within certain metes and bounds
to set apart one species of fish to the owner's sole use, or,
alternatively, to put a taboo on all fishing within the limits for
certain months and to receive from all fishermen one-third of
the fish taken upon the fishing grounds. A right of this sort
is somewhat different from those familiar to the common law,
but it seems to be well known to Hawaii, and, if it is established, there is no more theoretical difficulty in regarding it
as property and a vested right than there is regarding any
ordinary easement or profit a prendre as such. The plaintiff's
claim is not to be approached as if it were something anomalous
or monstrous, difficult to conceive and more difficult to admit.
Moreover, however anomalous it is, if it is sanfctioned by
legislation, if the statutes have erected it into a property right,
property it will be, and there is nothing for the courts to do
except to recognize it as a right. Wedding v. Meyler, 192
U. S.573, 583.
The property formerly belonged to Kamehameha IV, from
whom it passed to his brother Lot Kamehameha and from him
by mesne conveyances to the plaintiff. The title of the latter
to the ahupuaa is not disputed. He claims the fishery also
under a series of statutes and a royal grant. The history is as
follows: In 1839 Kamehameha III took the fishing grounds
from Hawaii to Kauai and redistributed them--those named
without the coral reef, and the ocean beyond, to the peoplethose "from the coral reef to the seabeach for the landlords and
for the tenants of their several lands, but not for others." The
landlord referred to seems to have been the konohiki or overlord of an ahupuaa or large tract like that owned by the plaintiff. It is not necessary to speculate as to what the effect of
this act of the king would have been, standing alone, he then

DAMON v. HAWAII.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the C),irt.

having absolute power. It had at least the effect of inaugurating a system, de facto. But in 1846, the monarchy then being
constitutional, an act was passed article 5 of which was entitled "Of the Public and Private Rights of Piscary." By the
first section of this article it was provided again that the same
fishing grounds outside the reef should be free to the people,
etc.; and then by the second it was enacted that the fishing
grounds from the reefs to the beach, or, where there are no
reefs, for one mile seaward, "shall in law be considered the
private property of the landlords whose lands, by ancient
regulation, belong to the same; in the possession of which
private fisheries the said landholders shall not be molested
except," etc.
By § 3 "the landholders shall be considered in law to hold
said private fisheries for the equal use of themselves and of the
tenants on their respective lands; and the tenants shall be at
liberty to use the fisheries of their landlords, subject to the
restrictions in this article imposed." Then follows a statement of the rights of the landlord as they have been summed
up above and a provision that the landlords shall not have
power to lay any tax or to impose any restrictions upon their
tenants regarding the private fisheries other than those prescribed.
The Civil Code of 1859, § 387, repeated the enactment of §2,
that the fishing grounds within the reef or one mile seaward
"shall, in law, be considered the private property of the
konohiki," etc., in nearly the same words, and other sections
codified the regulations just mentioned. There was a later
repetition in the Penal Laws of 1897, § 1452, etc., and this was
in force when the organic act of Congress was passed, repealing,
as we have said, the laws conferring exclusive fishing rights,
but preserving vested rights.
The foregoing laws not only use the words "private property," but show that they mean what they say by the restrictions cutting down what otherwise would be the incidents of
private property. There is no color for a suggestion that they

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

created only a revocable license, and if they imported a grant
or a confirmation of an existing title, of course the repeal of the
laws would not repeal the grant. The argument against their
effect was not that in this case the ahupuaa 'did not belong
to the fishery, within the words "landlords whose lands, by
ancient regulation, belong to the same," (the land seems formerly to have been incident to the fishery,) but that citizens have
no vested rights against the repeal of general laws. This is
one of those general truths which become untrue by being
inaccurately expressed. A general law may grant titles as
well as a special law. It depends on the import and direction
of the law. A strong example of the application of the rule
intended by the argument is to be found in Wisconsin & Michigan Railway v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379, where a railroad company
was held to have no vested right to exemptions proclaimed in a
general tax act. The statute was construed not to import an
offer, covenant or grant to railroads which might be built in
reliance upon it. But if a general law does express such an
offer, as it may, thegrant is made. If the Hawaii statutes did
not import a grant it is hard to see their meaning.
However, in this case it is not necessary to invoke the statutes
further than to show that, by the law in force since 1846 at
least, such rights as the plaintiff claims, and which, as is shown
by the evidence, he and his predecessors in title have been
exercising for forty years, have been recognized as private
property. Such is the view of the leading case, decided in 1858
and acquiesced in, we believe, ever since. Haalelea v. Montgomery, 2 Hawaiian Rep. 62, ,66. In. the present instance the
plaintiff claims under a royal patent, admitted to have been
effective as to whatever, by its true construction, it purported
to convey. This patent describes the ahupuaa by metes and
bounds, and then the granting clause goes on: "There is also
attached to this land a fishing right in the adjoining sea, which
is bounded as follows"-again giving boundaries, and continuing: "The islands of Mokumoa,. Mokuonini and Mokuoco
are a part of Moanalua, and are included in the above area."

UNITED STATES v. SING TUCK.
Syllabus,,

194 U. S.

The description of what is intended to be conveyed could not
be plainer. But the habendum is "to have and to hold the
above granted land," and it is said that as the fishery of an
overlord or konohiki, unlike the rights of tenants, did not pass
as an incident of land, but must be distinctly granted, the
fishery was not included in the patent. Haalelea v. Montgomery, 2 Hawaiian Rep. 62, 71. Again, we must avoid being
deceived by a form of words. We assume that a mere grant
of the ahupuaa without mention of the fishery would not convey
the fishery. But it does not follow that any particular words
are necessary to convey it when the intent is clear. When the
description of the land granted says that there is incident to it
a definite right of fishery, it does not matter whether the statement is technically accurate or not; it is enough that the grant
is its own dictionary and explains that it means by "land" in
the habendum land and fishery as well. There is no possibility
of mistaking the intent of the patent. It declares that intent
plainly on its face. There is no technical rule which overrides
the expressed intent, like that of th common law, which requires the mention of heirs in order to convey a fee. We are
of opinion that the patent did what it was meant to do, and

therefore that the plaintiff is entitled to prevail.
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES v. SING TUCK OR KING DO AND

THIRTY-ONE OTHERS.
CERTIORARI

TO

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 591. Argued April 7, 1904.-Decided April 25, 1904.

It is one of the necessities of the administration of justice that all questions
-even though fundamental*--should be determined in an orderly way,
and it is within the power of Congress to require one asserting the right
to enter this country on the ground that he'is a citizen, to establish his
citizenship in some reasonable way.

Vol,. cxciv-11

