OCTOBER TERI~V,

1903.

Statement of the Cae.

194 U. S.

MATTER OF CHRISTENSEN ENGINEERING COMPANY.
IN

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

No. 15, Original.

Submitted April 25, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.

When an order imposing a fine for violation of an injunction is substantially
one to reimburse the party injured by the disobedience, although called
one in a contempt proceeding, it is to be regarded as merely an interlocutory order, and to be reviewed only on appeal from the final decree.
Where, however, the fine is payable to the United States and is clearly
punitive and in vindication of the authority of.the court, it dominates
the proceeding and is reviewable by the Circuit Court of Appeals on
writ of error, Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324, and the court
should take jurisdiction and in case of its refusal mandamus will issue
from this court directing it so to do.

THIS is a petition for a writ of mandamus commanding the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit to reinstate
and take jurisdiction of a writ of error filed by the petitioner
in that court, by which it sought to have reviewed an order .of
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York adjudging the petitioner guilty of contempt. The facts are, that
on August 13, 1900, the Westinghouse Airbrake Company
filed in the Circuit Court its bill of complaint, alleging the
ownership of certain letters patent, an infringement by this
petitioner, and praying an injunction restraining such infringement and an accounting of profits and damages. A
preliminary injunction was ordered on October 18, 1901. On
February 21, 1903, the petitioner was adjudged guilty of contempt in disobeying that injunction, and ordered to pay a
fine of $1,000, one-half to the United States and the other
half to the complainant. On March 23, 1903, a writ of error
to revise this order was allowed by the Circuit Court, and a full
transcript of the proceedings in that court duly certified- to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. On March 18, 1903, the Circuit
Court entered a decree sustaining the validity of the ,patent,

MATTER OF CHRISTENSEN ENGINEERfNG CO. 459
194 U.: S.

Opinion of the Court.

directing a permanent injunction and an accounting of profits
and damages. On April 16, 1903, an appeal was taken from
this decree. A hearing on the writ of. error was had before
the Circuit Court of Appeals and, on February 13, 1904, that
court dismissed the writ of error.
Mr. W. A.-Jenner for petitioner.
Mr. FredericH. Betts for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The examination in Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Company, 194
U. S. 324, just decided, of the right of review in contempt cases
precludes the necessity of extended discussion.
In that case Bessette was not a party to the suit, and the
controversy had been settled by a final-decree, from which, so
far as appeared, no appeal had been taken. He was found
guilty of contempt of court, and a fine of $250 imposed, payable to the United States, with costs.
In this case the Christensen Engineering Company was a
party. The contempt was disobedience of a preliminary injunction and the judgment in contempt was intermediate the
preliminary injunction and the decree making it permanent.
The fine was payable, one-half to the United States, and the
other half to the complainant.
The distinction between a proceeding in which a fine is imposed by way of compensation to the party injured by the
disobedience, and where it is by way of punishment for an act
done in contempt of the power and authority of the court, is
pointed out in Bessette's case, and disclosed by some of the
cases referred to in the opinion.
In New Orleans v. Steamship Company, 20 Wall. 387, the
act in contempt was by one not then a party to the suit. No
order was entered against him until the final decree in the case,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

and then he was punished for the. act of disobedience, purely
as an act of a criminal, nature, and without compensation to
the plaintiff in whose favor the injunction was originally ordered. No review under the then existing law was allowable.
In Hayes v. Fischer, 102 U. S.121, the contempt proceeding
was remedial and compensatory, and the entire amount of the
fine was ordered paid to the plaintiff in reimbursement. It
was held that, if the remedial feature was alone to be considered, and the proceeding regarded as a part of the suit, it
could not be brought to this court by writ of error, but could
only be corrected on appeal from the final decree; if t6 be regarded as a criminal action, then it was one of which this court
had no jurisdiction, either by writ of error or appeal. In
Ex parte Debs et al., 159 U. S. 251, there was nothing of a
remedial or compensatory nature. No fine was imposed, but
only a sentence of imprisonment.. This court had no jurisdiction of a writ of error in such a case. And see O'Neal. v. United
States, 190 U. S. 36. In Worden v. Searls, 121 U. S. 14, the
proceeding was remedial and compensatory, in that for violations of a preliminary injunction the defendants were ordered
to pay the plaintiff $250 "as a fine for said violation," by one
*order, and, by another order, to pay a fine of S1,182 to the
clerk, to be paid over by him to the plaintiff for "damages and
costs," the $1,182 being made up of $682 profits made by the
infringement, and $500 expenses of plaintiff in. the contempt
proceedings. These interlocutory orders were reviewed by
this court on appeal from the final decree, and as that decree
was reversed, the- orders were also set aside, this being done
"without prejudice to the power and right of the Circuit Court
to punish the contempt referred to in those orders, by a proper
proceeding." It was also said "that, though the proceedings
were nominally those of contempt, they were really proceedings to award damages to the plaintiff, and to reimburse to
him his expenses."
These authorities show that when an order imposl.
ine
for violation of an injunction is substantially one to rei arse

CROWLEY v. UNITED. STATES.
194 U. S.

Syllabus.

the party injured by the disobedience, although called one in
a contempt proceeding, it is to be regarded as merely an interlocutory order, and to be reviewed only on appeal from the
final decree.
In the present case, however, the fine payable to the United
States was clearly punitive and in vindication of the authority
of the court, and, we think, as such it dominates the proceeding and fixes its character. Considered in that aspect, the writ
of error was justified, and the Circuit Court of Appeals should
have taken jurisdiction.
Petitioner entitled to mandamus.

CROWLEY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
N o. 205: Submitted April 12, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.

Where the accused contends in the District Court of the United States for
the District of Porto Rico, that under the provisions- of the Foraker act
of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, the qualifications of the grand jurors by
whom he was indicted should have been controlled by the local law of
January 31, 1901, and the court decides adversely, a right is claimed under a statute of the United States and denied; and under ยง 35 of the Foraker act this court has jurisdiction on writ of error to review the judgrent.
Under ยง 14 and 34 of the Foraker act providing that the District Court of
the United States for the District of Porto Rico shall have jurisdiction
in all c&ses cognizant in, the Circuit Courts of the United States and shall
proceed therein in the same manner as a Circuit Court, the provisions of
ยง 800, Rev. Stat., apply to criminal prosecutions, and the .court must recognize any valid existing local statute as to the qualification of jurors in
the same manner as a Circuit Court of the United States is controlled in
criminal prosecutions by the applicable statute of the State in which it is
sitting.
The disqualification of a grand juror prescribed by statute is a matter of
substance which cannot be regarded as a mere defect or imperfection
within the meaning of ยง 1025, Rev. Stat.

