OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

as to disqualified jurors summoned after the court convened,
add after the local statute went into operation and who werenevertheless permitted to participate in the finding of the indictment, is sufficient to dispose of the case.
For the reasons stated, and without considering other questions arising upon the plea in abatement as well as upon the
record, we adjudge only that the presence on the grand jury
of persons summoned after the local statute took effect and
who were disqualified by that statute-those facts having
been seasonably brought to the attention of the court by a
plea in abatement filed before arraignment--vitiated the indictment.
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded with directions to overrule the demurrer to the plea in abatement,
and for such further proceedings as may be consistent with
law.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

MR. JUSTICE WHITE

concurs in result.

dissents.

KNEPPER v. SANDS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 233. Submitted April 19, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.

Section 4 of the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, for the adjustment of
forfeited raib cad grant: providing for issuing patents under the conditions specified for lands sold by the grantee company to purchasers in
good faith, has no reference to any unearned lands purchased after the
date of the act from a company to which they had never been certified
or patented, although such company might have acquired an interest in
them had it completed its road. Nor can one who purchased unearned

KNEPPER v. SANDS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lands from a grantee company whose grant was made by Congress through
the State in which its road was to be built, be regarded as a purchaser in
good faith, within the meaning of the act of 1887, when the purchase was
made after the passage of the act and after the State had, by legislative
enactment, resumed its title to the lands and then relinquished them to
the United States on account of the failure to complete its road.

TiE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. I. S. Strubble for appellant.
Mr. John H. King and Mr. M. B. Davis for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause is before us upon questions certified by the Circuit
Court of Appeals pursuant to the Judiciary Act of March 3,
1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
The controlling facts .in the extended statement sent up by
the Judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals, as the basis of the
questions propounded, are these:
By an act approved May 12, 1864, c. 84, Congress made a
grant of lands to the State of Iowa for the purpose of aiding
in the construction of a railroad from Sioux City to the south
line of Minnesota at such point as the State might selectthe lands to be held subject to the disposal of its Legislature,
for that purpose only. Upon the completion of each section
of ten consecutive- miles of road it became the duty of tflu
Secretary of the Interior to issue to the State patents for onie
hundred sections for the benefit of the constructing company;
and so on, until the road was completed, when the whole of
the lands granted were to be patented "to the State for the uses
aforesaid, and none other." 13 Stat. 72, §§ 1, 2, 3.
If the road was not completed within ten years from the
acceptance of the grant by the constructing company, then
the lands granted and hot patented were to "revert to the
State" for the purpose of securing the completion of the road
within such time, not exceeding five years, and upon scli

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

terms as the State should determine-the lands not in any
manner to be disposed of or encumbered except as the same
were patei ed under the provisions of the act, and upon the
failure of the State to complete the road within five years
after the above ten years then the lands undisposed of were
to "revert to the United States." § 4.
The State accepted the grant, April 3, 1866, upon the conditions prescribed by Congress, and authorized the Sioux City
and St. Paul Railroad Company, a Minnesota corporation, to
construct the road. The company entered upon the work of
construction, and completed only five sections of ten miles
each, receiving the full amount of land to which it was entitled
by reason of such construction.
In consequence of the failure of the railroad company to
complete the construction of the road, the State declared by
an act approved March 16, 1882, that, in respect of all lands
and rights to land granted or intended to be granted to that
company, they "are hereby absolutely and entirely resumed
by the State of Iowa, and that the same be and are absolutely
vested in said State as if the same had never been granted
to said company." Before the passage of that act the State,
through its executive officers, ascertained by computation
that the railroad company had received conveyances for all
lands it was entitled to receive under the terms of the grant,
and'that the State then held legal title to 85,457.41 acres
pertaining to the grant, no part of which had then or ever
since been earned by the company. The land in question
here was a part of those unearned lands.
Subsequently, by an act which took effect April 2, 1884,
the State relinquished to the United States all its right, title
and interest in the lands which by the above act of 1882 were
declared vested in the State.
The land here in dispute, being section 9, township 95,
north of range 42, west of the fifth principal meridian, in
O'Brien County, Iowa, was open and unoccupied when the
above act of April 2, 1884, was passed. In 1885 Sands settled

KNEPPER v. SANDS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon it, erected thereon' a house, and made improvements
with a view of establishing a homestead in accordance with
the laws of the United States. He has continuously since
resided upon the land, claiming it as a homestead. Shortly
after he settled upon it he made application to enter it as a
homestead, but his application was rejected; for what reason
rejected, does not appear.
Later, by an act approved. March 3, 1887, Congress provided
for the adjustment of land grants made by Congress to aid
in the construction of railroads, and for the forfeiture of unearned lands. 24 Stat. 556, c. 376.
The first section :of that act provided for the immediate
adjustment, in accordance with the decisions of this court,
of each of the railroad land grants which then remained unadjusted. The second section provided for the recovery by
the United States of the title to lands erroneously certified
or patented by the United States to or for the use or benefit
of any company claiming by, through or under grant from
the United States, to aid in the construction of a railroad.
That section made it the duty of the Secretary of the Interior
to demand from such company a relinquishment or reconveyance to the United States of all such lands, whether within
granted or indemnity limits, and, if the demand was not
complied,.with, then it became the duty of the Attorney
General to institute suit against the company. The third
section provided that homestead or preemption entries of
bona fide settlers which were found to have been erroneously
cancelled might be perfected, upon compliance with the public
land laws and certain conditions and the settler reinstated
in his rights. If the settler did not renew his application
within a reasonable time, to be fixed by the Secretary of the
Interior, then all such unclaimed lands were to be disposed
of under the public land laws-according a priority of. right
to bona fide purchasers of the unclaimed lands, if any, and if
there be no such purchasers, then to bona fide settlers residing
thereon.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

The fourth section, upon the cofistruction of which the
present ease mainly depends, is in these words: " § 4. That
as to all lands, except those mentioned in the foregoing section, which have been so erroneously certified or patented as
aforesaid, and which have been .sold by the grantee company to
citizens of the United States, or to persons who have declared
their intention to become such citizens, the person or persons,
so purchasing in good faith, his heirs or assigns, shall be entitled
to the land so purchased, upon making proof of the fact of such
purchase, at the proper land office, within such time and
under such rules as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the
Interior, after the grants respectively shall have been adjusted; and patents of the United States shall issue therefor,
and shall revert back to the date of the original certification
or patenting, and the Secretary of the Interior, on behalf of
the United States, shall demand payment from the company,
which has so disposed of such lands, of an amount equal to
the government price of similar lands; and in case of neglect
or refusal of such company to make payment as hereafter
specified, within ninety days after the demand shall have been
made, the Attorney General shall cause suit or suits to be
brought against such company for the said amount: Provided,
That nothing in this act shall prevent any purchaser of lands
erroneously withdrawn, certified or patented as aforesaid from
recovering the purchase money therefor from the grantee
company, less the amount paid to the United States by such
" 24 Stat. 556,
company as by this act required.
c. 376.
As showing the nature of the title of the State under the
act of 1864, reference may here be made to a suit brought
by the United States against the Sioux City and St. Paul
Railroad Company, under which company, as will presently
appear, the appellant claims. By the final decree in that
case the title of the United States was quieted as to certain
lands situated in Dickinson and O'Brien Counties, and claimed
by the railroad company under the act of 1864. In the

KNEPP!ER v. SANDS.
19t U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

opinion in that case, which was decided here October 21,
1895, the court said: "Another contention is, that upon the
issuing of the patents of 1872 and 1873 to the State for the
use and benefit of the railroad company the title vested absolutely in the company, and the lands were thereby freed fron
restraints of alienation, from conditions subsequent, or from
liability to forfeiture, In support of this contention reference is made to Bybee v. Oregon & California Railroad, 1139
U. S. 663, 674, 676, 677; Van Wyck v. Kneval, 106 U. S. 360;
Wisconsin Central Rfailroad v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496;
Deseret Salt Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241; St. Paul & Pacific
Railroad v. Northern Pacific Railroad, 139 U. S. 1, 6. But
these are cases, as an examination of them will show, in which
the grant was directly to the railroad company, or in which
the act of Congress required 'that the patents for lands earned
should be issued, not to the State for the benefit of the railroad
company, but directly to the company itself. In the case now
before us the statute directed patents to be issued to the State
for the benefit of the company. So that, until the State disposed of the lands, the title was in it, as trustee, and not in the
railroad company. Schulenberger v. Harriman, 12 Wall. 44,
59; Lake Superior Ship Canal &c. Co. v. Cunningham, 155
U. S. 354. See also McGregor &c. Railroad v. Brown, 39 Iowa,
655; Sioux City & St. Paul Railroad v. Osceola County, 43
Iowa, 318, 321. In the case last named the Sioux City Company was relieved from the payment of taxes upon some of
the lands patented to the State for its benefit, upon the ground
that the legal title was in the State, and the lands for that
reason were not taxable. The question is altogether different
from what it would be if patents to these lands had been issued,
or if the State had conveyed them directly td that company."
Sioux City &c. Railroad,v. United States, 159 U. S.349, 363.
It was there adjudged that the railroad company had received 2,004.89 acres riore than, in any view of its rights,
should have been awarded to it.
After the decision of that case the Secretary of the Interior,
VOL. oxciv--31

482'

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

under date of November 18, 1895, published a circular, in
which he declared th'e land here in controversy and other like
land subject to disposal by the Land Department. This was
after the above application by Sands to enter this land as a
homestead.
Subsequently, on the 10th of March, 1896, Sands renewed his
application for the land in question as a homestead. That application was contested in the local land office by the present
appellant, who asserted 'a right to the land in virtue of a
purchase of it from the Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad Com-

pany on June 21, 1887, and in virtue of the provisions of the
fourth section of the above adjustment act of March 3, 1887.
She had never resided upon the land in controversy or cultivated the same or in any manner attempted to comply with
the homestead laws of the United States for the purpose of
obtaining a title under them. This contest was determined
at the local office in favor of Sands-that office finding that
he had, by virtue of his settlement of and continued residence
upon and cultivation of the land, and by full compliance with
the homestead laws of the United States, become entitled to
a patent. That decision was confirmed by the Commissioner
of the Land Office. But upon appeal to the Secretary of the
Interior the decisions of the local land office and of the Commissioner were reversed, and Sands' application to enter the
land as. a homestead was rejected. Thereupon the present
suit was commenced by Sands, charging that the officers of
the General Land Office, proceeding under the decision of the
Secretary, were about to issue or had issued a patent to the
present appellant solely by virtue of her alleged purchase on
June 21, 1887, from the Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad
Company, after the passage of the adjustment act of March 3,
1887, ild in virtue of its fourth section. Sands, alleging that
such ac )n, if taken, would be unlawful and contrary to law,
prayed that the Commissioner be required to accept his proofs
-showing settlement upon and continuous cultivation of the
land for the period of five years or more, and that the patent

KNEPPER v. SANDS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to appellant Knepper be either declared null and void, or for
a decree declaring that she holds the legal title in trust for him.
Such is the case made by the statement by the Judges of
the Circuit Court of Appeals, who propound to this court the
following questions:
"First. In view of the provisions of the act of Congress of
May 12, 1864, by virtue of which the land in controversy was
granted to the State of Iowa, did the action which was subsequently taken in manner and form aforesaid by the Governor
and Legislature of the State of Iowa operate as a final adjustment of the grant, so far as the Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad Company was concerned, and, by virtue of its being so
adjusted, exempt or except the grant in question from the
provisions of the adjustment act of March 3, 1.887?
"Second. In view of the terms of the granting act of May 12,
1864, and the action subsequently taken in manner and form
aforesaid by the State of Iowa, acting through its Governor
and Legislature, can Elmira Knepper, the appellant, be esteemed a purchaser in good faith or a bona fide purchaser of
the land in controversy, within the meaning of the fourth
section of the adjustment act of March 3, 1887, as against
John A. Sands, the appellee, who was in the open possession
of the land in controversy and had erected valuable improvements thereon, in manner and form aforesaid, when said purchase was made?"
We have seen that the appellant claims an interest in the
lands here in question in virtue of a purchase made by her from
the railroad company, June 21, 1887, after the passage of the
adjustment act of March 3, 1887. But what interest had the
company at that time in these particular lands constituting
a part of the 85,457.41 acres of unearned lands, no part of
which the company earned or could have earned except on
account of road actually constructed by it. For such road as
the company had constructed, lands had been conveyed to it,
and there never was a moment, according to the record, when
the company could have rightfully demanded from the.State

OCTOBER TE]RM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court,

194 U. S.

a conveyance or patent for the lands here in dispute or for
any of the unearned lands. The legal title to the lands granted
by the act of 1864 was, first in the United States, next in the
State, (Sioux City &c. Railroad Co: v. United States, above
cited,) but never in the company until a conveyance to it by
the State. The State could only have conveyed. lands to the
company in consideration of constructed road; and subject to
that condition the company undertook to construct the road.
When it abandoned the work of construction it lost the right
to claim lands except for such road as it had previously constructed. The State therefore properly resumed, as by the
act of 1892 it did resume, after the company's default, such
title to the unearned lands as it had before authorizing the
company to construct the road. The State after thus resuming the title could have used the unearned lands to aid in the
construction of that portion of the road which the railroad
company failed to construct. But it did not do so, and hence
by the act of April 2, 1884,-eighteen years after it accepted,
in 1866, the grant of 1864 and the completion of the road
having been abandoned-the State, by statute,- formally relinquished to the United States all its right, title and interest
in the unearned lands pertaining to the Sioux City and St.
Paul RaiIroad Company. This statute was perhaps unnec-essary, as by the act of 1864 the title to the unearned lands
granted by that act was to revert to the United States after
the expiration of fifteen years from the -acceptance of the
grant without the completion of the road. But the relinquishment by the State saved the necessity, if there was a
necessity, of formal proceedings, legislative or judicial, by the
United States to reinvest itself- with full title. Thus the
title to the unearned lands was put back into the United States.
So that when the adjustment act of 1.887 was passed, the title
of the United States to the unearned lands, including the
particular lands here in dispute, was complete and perfect.
No interest then remained in the State or in the railroad company requiring an. adjustment; for, as stated, the State had

KNEPPER v. SANDS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

relinquished all its claim, and the railroad company had received all the lands it was entitled to demand for constructed
road. When, therefore, Congress made provision in the fourth
section of the act of 1887 for the protection of those who in
good faith had purchased from any "grantee company," to
whom lands had been erroneously certified or patented, it
could not have intended to refer to purchases made from the
railroad company, after that act took effect, of lands originally
certified or patented to the State and not to the railroad company, and the legal title to which was in the United States at
the date of the passage of the act. A chief purpose of the act
of 1887 was to declare forfeited unearned lands and restore
them to the public domain, and not to give third parties and
speculators an opportunity to purchase such lands from companies which had defaulted in the work of construction, and
to whom the State had never conveyed, and thereby obtain
a preference over actual settlers in possession. The policy of
the Government has always been favorable to actual settlers.
As late as Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S.537, it was said that "the
law deals tenderly with one who, in good faith, goes upon the
public lands, with a view of making a home thereon." See
also Northern. Pacific Railroad v. Amacker, 175 U. S. 564;
Moss v. Dowman, 176 U. S. 413; Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S.
276; Nelson v. Northern Pacific Railway, 188 U. S.i08, 123.
We are of opinion that the fourth section of the adjustment
act of 1887,has no reference to any unearned lands purchased
after the date of that act from a company to whom they had
never been certified or patented, although, if it had kept its
engagement with the State and completed the road, in due
time, it could have acquired an interest in them; and that, as
the State by legislative enactment, had resumed the title it
acquired from the United States, and afterwards relinquished
its interest to the United States-all before the passage of the
adjustment act-the appellant could not, within the meaning
of the act, and after its passage, have become a purchaser in
good faith of the lands here. in dispute. The sale by the rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

road company to the appellant was a sale of something it did
not possess, a mere device to bring its purchaser within the
provisions of the adjustment act of 1887 when that act was
never intended to apply to such a case.
We, 'therffore, answer the second question in the negative,
and omit as unnecessary any answer to the first one.
It will be so certified.

BINNS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
Nos. 196, 266. Submitted April 6, 1904.-Decided May 31,1904.

While it may not be within the power of Congress by a special system of
license taxes to obtain, from a Territory of the United States, revenue
for the benefit of the Natiodi as distinguished from that necessary for
the support of the territorial government, Congress has plenary power,
save as controlled by the provisions of the Constitution, to establish a
government of the Territories which need not necessarily be the same in
all Terfitories and it may establish a revenue system applicable solely to
the Territory for which it is established.
The fact that the taxes are paid directly into the treasury of the United
States and are ,not specifically appropriated for the expenses of the Territory, when the sum total of all the revenue from the Territory including all.
the taxes does not equal the cost and expense of maintaining the governmnent of the Territory, does not make the taxes unconstitutional if it
satisfactorily appear that the purpose of the taxes is to raise revenue
in that Territory for the Territory itself.
The license taxes provided for in § 460, Title II, of the Alaska Penal Code,
are not in conflict with the uniformity provisions of § 8 of Article I of
the Constitutibn of the United States.
The general rule that debates of Congress are not appropriate soirces of
information from which to discover the meaning of the language of
statutes passed by that body does not apply to the examination of the
reports of committees of either branch of Congress with a view of determining the scope of statutes passed on the strength of such reports.
Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, 464.

