SELDEN v. MONTAGUE.
Counsel for Parties.

194 U.S.

canvass of the returns cast at that election. The prayer of the
petitioners specifically is to retain such canvass.. Even the
general clause at the close of the prayer is "for such other and
further orders in the premises as shall and may make the
prayer of your petitioners effectual." But-as shown by the
affidavit, and as indeed we might perhaps take judicial notice
by the presence in the House of Representatives of the individuals elected at that election from the various Congressional
districts of Virginia-the thing sought to be prohibited has
been done and cannot be undone by any order of court. The
canvass has been made, certificates of election have been issued,
the House of Representatives (which is the sole judge of the
qualifications of its members) has admitted the parties holding
the certificates to seats in that body, and any adjudication
which this court might make would be only an ineffectual
decision of the question whether or not these petitioners were
wronged by what has been fully accomplished. Under those
circumstances there is nothing but a moot case remaining, and
the motion to dismiss must be sustained.
Dismissed without costs to either party.

SELDEN v. MONTAGUE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 190.

Argued April 4, 5, 1904-Deeided April 25, 1904.

Dismi sed on authority of preceding case.

ARGUED simultaneously with and by the same counsel as
Jones v. Montague; p. 147 ante.

OCTOBER TERM. 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.
MR.

194 U. S.

JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought to obtain by injunction the
same relief as was sought in the preceding case. The facts and
conditions are substantially similar, and for the reasons there
given the appeal will be dismissed without costs to either party.

DAMON v. HAWAII.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 207. Argued April 12,1904.-Decided April 25, 1904.

A general law may grant titles as well as a special law.
The act of Hawaii of 1846, " of Public and Private Rights of Piscary," together with royal grants previously made, created and confirmed rights in
favor of landlords in adjacent fishing grounds within the reef or one mile
to seaward which were vested rights within the saving clause in the
organic act of the Territory repealing all laws of the Republic of Hawaii
conferring exclusive fishing rights.
A statement in a patent of an apuhuaa in, Hawaii that "a fishing right is
also attached to this land in the adjoining sea" and giving the boundaries
thereof, passes the fishery right even if the habendum refers only to the
above granted land.'
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Francis Al. Hatch, with whom Mr. Reuben D.: Silliman
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The statutes of Hawaii from 1839 down on the subject of

fisheries, have given property interests in the fisheries to the
adjoining landowner.

History and usage are to be looked at

in considering these statutes. Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367.
These acts are not to be construed as are conveyances between
individuals. They are laws as well as grants. Railway Co. v.

