PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE v. COYNE.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Purdy for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is similar to the one just decided, -and, for the
reasons given in that opinion, the judgment of the District
Court of Alaska is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN took no part in the decision of this case.

PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE v. COYNE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN
No. 224.

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Argued April 18, 1904.-Decided May 31, t904.

The power vested in Congress to establish post offices and post roads embraces the regulation of the entire postal system of the country; Congress
may designate what may be carried in, and what excluded from, the
mails; and the exclusion of articles equally prohibited to all does not
deny to the owners thereof any of their constitutional rights.
Due process of law does not necessarily require the interference of judicial
power nor is it necessarily denied because the disposition of property is
affected by the order of an executive department.
Each executive department of the Government has certain public functions.
and duties the performance of which is absolutely necessary to the existence of the Government and although it may temporarily operate with
seeming harshness upon individuals, the rights of the public must, in
these particulars, overrule the rights of individuals provided there be
reserved to them an ultimate recourse to the judiciary.
Where a person is engaged in an enterprise which justifies the Postmaster
General in issuing a fraud order, it is not too much to assume that prima
facie at least all of his letters are identified with the business and § 3929,
Rev. Stat., as amended by the act of September 19, 1890, is not unconstitutional because the Postmaster General in seizing and detaining all
letters under a fraud order may include some having no connection
whatever with the prohibited enterprise.
VOL. cXCiV
32

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

The rights of the sender, and the addressees of letters returned to the sender
under a fraud order issued by the Postmaster Gen eral are not affected
by the order except so far as the same is a refusal on the part of Congress
to extend the facilities of the Post Office Department to the final delivery
of the letter, and § 3929, Rev. Stat., as amended, is not unconstitutional
and (toes not "operate as a confiscation of the property of the person against
whom the order is issued.
The misrepresentation of existing facts is not always necessarily involved
in a scheme or artifice to defraud and where, after examination made, the
Postmaster General has issued a fraud order on the ground that the
defendants were engaged in a scheme for obtaining money or property
by means of false representations, and the master in the court below has
found that the scheme was, in effect, a lottery, the significant fact is that
the parties were engaged in a scheme within the meaning and prohibition
of §§ 3929 and 4101, Rev. Stat., and this court will not hold that the
Postmaster General exceeded his authority in making the fraud order.
THIS was a bill in equity by the Public Clearing House
against the Postmaster of the city of Chicago, praying for an
injunction to restrain him from seizing and detaining appellant's
mail, stamping it "fraudulent," and returning it tp the senders
thereof, and from denying to appellant the use of the money
order and registered letter system of the Post Office Department.
An answer and replication were filed and the cause referred
to a master in chancery to take the testimony and report the
same with his conclusions thereon.
The following contains the substance of the master's report:
"1. The complainant is a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Illinois, for the purpose, as stated by its
charter, of doing a general brokerage and commnission business,

collecting and disbursing money and conducting an exchange
or information bureau for the benefit of patrons. The evidence shows that the said complainant 'had made a beginning
of several different kinds of business and its managers had
opened negotiations with different laundry proprietors, preparing to place laundries on a eo6perative basis; also to handle
fr'uits and poultry in the same manner, and also to purchase
anid sell goods on behalf of its patrons on commission, and to
,xlhainge goods in specie in the same manner for a commission,

PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE v. COYNE.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and had actually transacted some small amount of such business, but the principal business and object for which the said
complainant was organized appears to have been to act as the
fiscal agent of a certain voluntary association called the League
of Equity. This League of Equity consists of a large number
of people, approximately five thousand at present,, of various
occupations and scattered throughout the United States and
Canada, each of whom, in his application for membership,
consents that the Public Clearing House shall act as fiscal
agent fore said League of Equity. The said. League of Equity
was in a way successor to a prior organization called the
League of Educators, and this in turn succeeded to a still prior
organization called the League of Eligibles, and a certain
organization or partnership called the board of managers of
the League of Educators and the board of managers of the
League of Eligibles were respectively fiscal agents for the two
organizations.
"The League of Eligibles was established in the year 1898,
and was a voluntary association of unmarried people. Their
certificates became matured or realized upon the contingency
of marriage, provided that such marriage did not occur within
one year from the time when they joined the league. The
certificate had a fixed realization value of five hundred dollars,
and was paid out of the monthly pro rata assessment levied
upon all members of the league for the benefit of those members whose certificates Were matured or-realized.
"The plan of the ,League of Educators was the same, except
that it substituteda fixed time for the realization of the certificates, and eliminated the marriage contingency feature.
"2. The plan of the League of Equity differed from that of
the League of Educators only in having a fixed monthly payment of one dollar, instead of a fluctuating or variable assessment. When the first change was made there were about
thirteen hundred members of the League of Eligibles, all of
whom were given an opportunity to become members of the
League of Educators without additional cost and without

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

losing the benefit of their previous term of co6peration, and
many of them availed themselves of this opportunity and became members of the League of Educators. Again, when the
League of Equity was formed, the League of Educators consisted of some nine thousand members, who were allowed the
same privilege of joining the League of Equity, and up to the
time when the fraud order was issued against the latter concern
between four and five thousand members of the League of
Educators had joined the League of Equity.
"3. The evidence showed that up to about the first of
November, 1902, during the period of the existence of the
League of Eligibles and League of Educators, there had been
collected from about 13,784 members a total of $137,390.66,
out of which the board of managers had taken about $36,000
for their expenses and compensation for themselves ahd agents
in the field. The remainder had been distributed among some
600 or 700 members, and at that time the board of managers
had no money in their hands.
"In other words, 600 or 700 members had received an
average of something less than $170 each, and over ten thousand members had received nothing.
"4.. The board of managers of the League of Educators had
during its business as fiscal agent for said league accumulated
a large number of address cards of different persons throughout the country, which had been secured through the members
or c6operators, and these address cards were at or about the
time of the organization of the Public Clearing House sold
to said Public Clearing House by the said board of managers,
for the sum of $2,500.
"51 The complainant, The Public Clearing House, as such
fiscal agent of the League of Equity, invites people to join the
said league, and holds out inducements in the shape of a large
return for small amounts of money and for services to be rendered by members or c6operators in inducing others to become
members or cooperators. There is no contract or agreement
issued or entered into with members by the League of Equity

PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE v. COYNE.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

itself as a body or association, but a certain so-called cooperator's agreement, a copy of which is attached to the bill
herein, is issued to each member or codperator, and. is signed
by said Public Clearing House by its president and secretary
as fiscal agents for the League of Equity.
"In order to carry on successfully the business of the complainant it is necessary that it have the use of the United States
mails; but it has not had the use of the mails since November 13, 1902, by reason of a 'fraud order' issued against it,
dated November 10, 1902, by the Postmaster General, and as
a result the business has practically been stopped.
"6. The plan or scheme of the League of Equity as set forth
in the co6perator's agreement and in other literature issued
by said complainant may be briefly stated as follows: Each
person who becomes a member or cobperator pays three dollars as enrollment fee, and agrees to pay the sum of one dollar
per month for sixty months or five years, and also agrees to
'codperate' by inducing other persons to become members or
cobperators. The agreement states that in consideration of
said enrollment fee 'and the faithful compliance with the
terms of this agreement hereinafter contained, the abovenamed person shall receive his pro rata share of the total
amount realized (less ten per cent) when entitled to a realization as hereinafter provided, said realization to be in accordance
with the following ordinary causation and realization table.'
Then follows a table showing that if the league grows at the
rate of fifteen to one the total realization of the member at
the end of five years will be at the same rate of increase, that
is, he will receive nine hundred dollars for his sixty dollars
paid in; if the growth is at the rate of ten to one he will receive six hundred dollars at the end of five years, and so forth
and so on down to a growth of only one to one, in which case
he will receive only his money back, less the ten per cent
which is in each case deducted as the compensation of the
complainant for its services and existence as fiscal agent, and
less also the three dollars enrollment fee. Aside from this

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

ten per cent and the three dollars enrollment fee, the plan
does not contemplate that complainant shall retain any of the
money paid in by codperators, or that any reserve fund shall
be accumulated or invested, but that the money paid in each
month shall be regularly paid out each month (less ten per
cent) to the so-called realizing co6perators, i. e., those whose
five years' period has expired and who have continued-to make
the requisite monthly payments during said five years. There
is an additional provision that each codperator who shall have
secured three new members in any one year may realize or
receive at the end of each year one-fifth of the amount which
he would be entitled to receive at the end of five years, assuming that the growth for the five years continued at the
same rate; but the plan contemplates that in the end the
member who secures new members and the one who does
not shall receive the same amount.
"5. All members who join the League of Equity during the
same month constitute a class by themselves and are entitled
to realize in all respects precisely the same amount and at the
same time, excepting the member who obtains new cooperators
may receive his realization in yearly installments, instead of
in one lump at the end of the five years', period.
"The only source of income to the league and the only funds
to which its members can look for payment of the promised
amount, or any amount whatever, is the fund created each
month by the payment of monthly dues, and the realization
of any amount whatever by the new members is conditioned
absolutely upon the constant acquisition of other new members and the new payments to be made by such new members.
And what amount the members or codperators will realize,
as is stated by the league literature, depends entirely upon the
ratio of growth of the league. -No reserve fund is accumulated
and no investments whatever are made of any portion of the
money paid in by members."
Upon this state of facts the master came to the conclusion
that the scheme of the complainant was, in effect, a lottery,

PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE v. COYNE.
194 V. S.

Argument, for Appellant.

and as such was not entitled to the tse of the mails, and also
reported to the court that the fraud order which had been
issued by the Postmaster General in November, 1902, was fully
justified and that the injunction should be denied... His action
was affirmed by the Circuit Court, and the bill dismissed for
the want of equity.
Mr. D. I. Sicklesteel for: appellant:
The appellant challenges the constitutionality of the statutes above set forth, which authorize the Postmaster General
"upon evidence satisfactory to him," and which do not provide for any trial, hearing or inquiry of any kind, to arbitrarily seize the honest mail of any citizen of the United States
as alleged in the bill, and to interdict and prohibit its receiving
any mail, to destroy its business, and its property and property'
rights, and to subject its papers and sealed packets to unreasonable searches and seizures. 4th, 5th, 14th Amendments
and § 8, Art. I of the Constitution; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.
Co. v. Minnesota, 134 UJ. S. 418; Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S. 616; Murray's Lessees, 18 How. 276; In re Zeibold, 23
Fed. Rep.- 791; Palairets's Appeal, 67 Pa. St. 49; Hoover v.
McChesney, 81 Fed. Rep. 472; Fairfield Floral Co. v. Bradbury,
87 Fed. Rep. 411; United States v. Rider, 50 Fed. Rep. 406;
United States v. Keokuk & II. B. Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 178; American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty,187 U. S. 94.
The master and the court confirming his report hav6 found
that appellant, its officers and agents "have not been guilty
of making false or fraudulent misrepresentations in order to
induce persons to become members of the league, but that full
opportunity has been given for all persons to become fully conversant with the details and workings of the league's system."
Even if these statutes are constitutional, yet the appellant
corporation, from the facts as proven at the trial and found
by the court, is not as a matter of law, engaged "in conducting
any lottery, gift enterprise or scheme for the distribution of
nboney or of any real or personal plroperty, by lot, chance or

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

drawing of any kind" within the meaning of said statutes, and
the Postmaster General. having assumed and exercised jurisdiction in a case not covered by said statutes, and having
acted outside of the scope of the said statutes, the injunction
prayed for should have been granted in any event. The Master's findings were confirmed by the court. Bouvier Law Dict.;
Webster's Dict.; United States v. Olney, 1 App. (U. S.) 278;
Deady (U. S.), 461; Homer v. United States, 147 U. S. 458;
United States v. Politzer, 59 Fed. Rep. 276; People v. Elliott, 74
Michigan, 264; Ex parte Kameta, 36 Oregon, 251; Meyer v. State,
112 Georgia, 20; State v. Kansas Mere. Assn., 45 Kansas, 231;
State v. Boneil, 42 La. Ann. 1112; Barclay v. Pearson (1893),
2 Chy. 154; Taylor v. Smeaton, 11 Q. B. D. 210; State v. Clark,
66 Am. Dec. 723; McDonald v. United States, 63 Fed. Rep. 426,
affirming S. C., 59 Fed. Rep. 565; Lynch v. Rosenthal, 144
Indiana, 90; United States v. Wallis, 58 Fed. Rep. 942; United
States v. Fulkerson, 74 Fed. Rep. 627; State v. Interstate Investment Co., 60 N. E. Rep. 220; 14 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law,
2d ed. 600; Dunn v. People, 40 Illinois, 465; Thomas v. People,
59 Illinois, 160; Elder v. Chapman, 176 Illinois, 142, p. 150,
overruling Elder v. Chapman, 70 Ill. App. 293; Wilkinson v.
Gill, 74 N. Y. 67; 23 Att. Gen. Op. 263.
The appellee not having excepted to any of the findings of
the master and the court, the report of the said master, as
confirmed by the court is absolutely binding upon him and
precludes appellee from now raising the question in this court
-:as to the correctness 6f the finding of the Postmaster General,
set forth in the fraud order complained of.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Purdy, -with whom -Mr.William A. Day, Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the
brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
By section 3929 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the

PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE e. COYNE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

act of September 19, 1890, 26 Stat. 465, "The Postmaster
General may, upon evidence satisfactory to him that any
person or company is engaged in conducting any lottery, gift
enterprise, or scheme for the distribution of money, or of any
real or personal property by lot, chance, or drawing of any
kind, or that any person or company is conducting any other
scheme or device for obtaining money or property of any kind
through the mails by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
rcpresentations or promises, instruct postmasters at any postoffice at which registered letters arrive directed to any such
person or company ...
to return all such registered
letters to the postmaster at the office at which they were
originally mailed, with the word 'Fraudulent' plainly written
or stamped upon the outside thereof."
By section 4041, the Postmaster General is authorized in
similar terms to forbid the payment by any postmaster of any
postal money order drawn in favor of any person engaged in
the prohibited business; and by section 4 of the act of March 2,
1895, 28 Stat. 963, the power thus conferred upon the Postmaster General by the preceding section, 3929, is extended
and made applicable to all letters or other matter sent by
mail.
These acts apply to two classes of cases: First, to schemes
for the distribution of money, etc., by lot, chance or drawing
of any kind; second, to all schemes or devices for obtaining
money or property of any kind by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations or promises.
It seems the Postmaster General, in issuing the fraud order
in this case, acted upon the theory that the complainant was
engaged in conducting a scheme or device for obtaining money
through the mails by means of false and fraudulent pretenses,
etc., and not in conducting a lottery; but if the order detaining
the letters was properly issued, in view of all the evidence
introduced in the court below, we do not think it was vitiated
by the fact that the Postmaster General acted upon the hypothesis that the business in whieh complainant was engaged

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

was A fraudulent scheme instead of a lottery, since both are
within the purview of these statutes,
We find no difficulty in sustaining the constitutionality of
these sections. The postal service is by no means an indispensable adjunct to a civil government, and for hundreds, if
not for thousands, -of years the transmission of private letters
was either entrusted to the hands of friends or to private
enterprise. Indeed, it is only within the last three hundred
years that governments have undertaken the work of transmitting intelligence as a branch of their general administration. While it has been known in this country since colonial
times and was recognized in the Constitution and in some of
the erliest acts of Congress, the rates of postage were so high
and the methods of transmission so slow and uncertain that
it was not until 1845, when the postage was reduced to five
and ten cents, according to" the distance, and a stamp or
stamps introduced, that it assumed anything of the importance it now possesses.
It is not, however, a necessary part of the civil government
in the same sense in which the protection of life, liberty and
property, the defence of the, government" against insurrection
and foreign invasion, and the administration of public justice
are; but is a public function assumed and established by Congress for the general welfare, and in most countries its expenses
are paid solely by the persons making use of its facilities; and
it returns, or is presumed to return, a revenue to the government, and really operates as a popular and efficient method
of taxation. Indeed, this seems to have been originally the
purpose of Congress. The legislative body in thus establishing a postal service may annex such conditions to it as it
chooses.
The constitutional principles underlying the administration
of the Post Office Department were discussed in the opinion
of fthe court in Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727, in which we held
thatt tho power vested in Congress to establish post offices and
post roads embraced the regulation of the entire postal system

PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE e. COYNE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the country; that Congress might designate what might be
carried in the mails and what excluded, and that in the enforcement of such regulations a distinction was made between
letters and sealed packages subject to letter postage, -and such
other packages as were open to inspection, such as newspapers,
magazines, pamphlets and other printed matter, and that the
constitutional guarantee against unreasonable searches and
seizures extended to letters but did not extend to printed
matter. In establishing such system Congress may restrict
its use to letters, and deny it to periodicals; it may include
periodicals, and exclude books; it may admit books to the
mails and refuse to admit merchandise, or it may include all
of these and fail to embrace within its regulations telegrams
or large parcels of merchandise, although in most civilized
countries of Europe these are also Inade a part of the postal
service. It may also refuse to include in its mails such printed
matter or merchandise as may seem objectionable to it upon
the ground of public policy, as dangerous to its employ6s or
injurious to other mail matter carried in the same packages.
The postal regulations of this country, issued in pursuance of
act of Congress, contain a long list of prohibited articles dangerous in their nature, or to other articles with which they
may come in contact, such, for instance, as liquids, poisons,
explosives and inflammable articles, fatty substances, or live
or dead animals, and substances which exhale a bad odor.
It has never been supposed that the exclusion of these articles
denied to their owners any of their constitutional rights.
While it may be assumed, for the purpose of this case, that
Congress would have no right to extend to one the benefit of
its postal service, and deny it to another person in the same
class and standing in the same relation to the Government,
it does not follow that under its power to classify mailable
matter, applying different rates of postage to different articles,
and prohibiting some altogether, it may not also classify the
recipients of such matter, and forbid the delivery of letters
to such persons or corporations as in its judgment are making

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion Of the Court.

194 U. S.

use of the mails for the purpose of fraud or deception or the
dissemination among its citizens of information of a character
calculated to debauch the public morality. For mote than
thirty years not only has the transmission of obscene matter
been prohibited, but it has been made a crime, punishable'by
fine or imprisonment, for a person to deposit such matter in
the mails. The constitutionality of this law we believe has
never been attacked. The same provision was by the same
act extended to letters and circulars connected with lotteries
and gift enterprises, the constitutionality of which was upheld
by this court in In re Rapier, 143 U. S.110.
It is contended, however, that the laws in question are unconstitutional in that they authorize the Postmaster General
to seize and return to sender all letters addressed to a particular
person, firm or corporation which he is satisfied is making use
of the mail for an illegal purpose. Their constitutionality is
attabked upon three grounds: First, because they provide no
judicial hearing upon the question of illegality; second, because
they authorize the seizure of all letters without discriminating
between those which may contain arid those which may not
contain prohibited matter; and, third, because they empower
the Postmaster General to confiscate the money, or the representative of money, of the addressee, which has become his
property by the depositing of the letter in the mails.
1. It is too late to argue that due process of law is denied
whenever the disposition of property is affected by the order
of an executive department. Many, if not most, of the matters
-presented to these dep.artments require for their proper solution the judgment or discretion of the head of the department,
and in many cases, notably those connected with the disposition of the public lands, the action of the department is accepted as final by the courts, and even when involving questions of law this action is attended by a strorng presumption
of its correctness. Bates & Guild Co. v.,Payne, 1.94 U. S. 106.
That due process of law does not necessarily require the interference of the judicial power is laid down in many cases and

PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE v. COYNE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by many eminent writers upon the subject of constitutional
limitations. Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken,, Qo., 18 How. 272,
280; Bushnell v. Leland, 164 U. 'S. 684. As was said by
Judge Cooley, in Weimer v. Bunbury, 30 Michigan, 201:
"There is nothing in these words, ('due process of law,')
however, that necessarily implies that due process of law
must be judicial process. Much of the process by means of
which the government is carried on and the order of society
maintained is purely executive or administrative. Temporary deprivations of liberty or property must often take place
through the action of ministerial or executive officers or
functionaries, or even of private parties, where it has never
been supposed that.the common law would afford redress."
If the ordinary daily transactions of the departments, which
involve an interference with private rights, were required to
be submitted to the courts before action was finally taken,
the result would entail practically a suspension of some of
the most, important functions of the government. Even in
the recent case of the School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty,
187 U. S. 94, the constitutionality of the law authorizing
seizures of this kind by the Postmaster General was assumed,
if not actually decided, the only reservation being that the
person injured may apply to the courts for redress in case the
Postmaster General has exceeded his authority or his action
is palpably wrong. So, too, in the recent case of Bates &
Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, the law was also assumed
to be constitutional, the only doubtful question being whether
this court should accept the findings of the Postmaster General
as to the classification of the: mail matter as final under the
circumstances of the case. Inasmuch as the action of the
postmaster in seizing letters and returning them to the writers
is subject to revision by the judicial department of the Government in cases where the Postmaster General has exceeded
his authority under the statute, School of Magnetic Healing v.
-McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94, we think it within the power of Congress to entrust him with the power of seizing and detaining

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

letters upon evidence satisfactory to himself, and that his action
will not be reviewed by the court. in doubtful cases.
2. Nor do we think the law unconstitutional, because the
Postmaster General may seize and detain all letters, which
may include letters of a purely personal or domestic character,
and having no'connection whatever with the prohibited enterprise. In view of the fact that by these sections the postmaster is denied permission to open any letters not addressed
to himself, there would seem to be no possible method of enforcing the law except by authorizing him to seize and detain
all such letters. It is true it may occasionally happen that
he would detain a letter having no relation to the prohibited
business; but where a person is engaged. in an enterprise of
this kind, receiving dozens and perhaps hundreds of letters
every day containing remittances or correspondence connected with the prohibited business, it is not too much to
assume that, prima facie at least, all such letters are identified
with such business. A ruling that only such letters as were
obviously. connected with the enterprise could be detained
would amount to practically an annullment of the law, as it
would be quite -impossible, without opening and inspecting
such letters, which is forbidden, to obtain evidence of the real
facts. Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 685; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133. Whether, in case a private registered
letter was thus seized and detained, and damage was thereby
occasioned to the addressee, an action would lie against the
Postmaster General, is not involved in this case. It-certainly
is not made the basis of the present suit.
Another answer to this argument, which seems to be conclusive, .is that the fraud order in this case is not open to this
objection, as the Postmaster General only forbids the postmaster at Chicago to pay any postal money orders, drawn to
the order of the League of Equity and the Public Clearing
House, or their officers or agents in their capacity as such, and
to inform the remitter of any such postal money order that
payment thereof has been forbidden, etc., and " to return all

PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE v. COYNE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

letters, whether registered or not, or other mail matter which
shall arrive at your office directed to such concerns or their
officers or agents as such, to postmasters at the office at which
they were originally mailed." There is nothing in the order
thus worded that Would authorize the postmaster at Chicago
to return letters addressed to an individual unless addressed
to such individual as officer or agent of the League of Equity
of the complainants. There is nothing in this order that would
authorize the interference with the private or domestic mail
matter of individuals.
3.The objection that the Postmaster General is authorized
by statute to confiscate the money, or the representative of
money, of the addressee, is based upon the hypothesis that
the money or other article of value contained in a registered
letter becomes the property of 'the addressee as soon as the
letter is deposited in the post office. The action of the Postmaster General in seizing the letter does not operate as a
confiscation of the money, or the determination of the title
thereto; but merely as a refusal to extend the facilities of the
Post Office Department to the final delivery of the letter.
Congress might undoubtedly have authorized the postmaster
at the depositing office to decline to receive the letter at all
if its forbidden character were known to him; but as this would
be impossible, we think the power to refuse the facilities of
the department to the transmission of such letter attends it,
at every step from its first deposit in the mail to its final delivery to the addressee, and as the character of the letter cannot
be ascertained until it arrives at the office of delivery, the
Government may then aqt and 'refuse to consummate the
transaction. If the letter and its contents become the propeyty of the addiessee when deposited in the mail, the subseluent seizure by the Government would not impair his title
or prevent an action by him for the amount of the remittance.
True, this might be of- no practical value to him, .but,' it is a
sufficient reply to show that the title to the letter did not
change by its seizure byi the postmaster.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion ofthe Court.

194 U. S.,

4. The main question involved in this case, however, is
whether the scheme of the complainant was within the language
of sections 3929 and' 4041. The Postmaster General, in his
fraud order, a copy of which is found in the bill, assumed that
the League bf Equity and the Public Clearing House were
engaged in conducting a scheme for obtaining money by means
of false and fraudulent representations or promises, bt as the
master found in his report that the Clearing House and its
officers had dealt fairly and honestly'.in respect to the collection and distribution of funds collected by them, and had not
been guilty of false or fraudulent representations in order to
induce persons to become members of the League, this theory
was abandoned by the Government, and the case put upon
the ground that these corporations were engaged in conducting
a "lottery or scheme for the distribution of money .
by lot, chance, or drawing." That they were not engaged in
conducting a lottery in the sense in which that word is ordinarily used is entirely clear, since this involves fixed prizes
and the allotment of the prizes to the holder of numbered
tickets which are drawn from a box. In such case the word
lot or chance attaches only to the name or number of the
ticket drawn, and not to the amount of the prize, but the
statute covers any scheme for the distribution of money by
lot or chance, as well as by drawing, and by the word chance,
as defined by Webster, is meant "something that befalls, as
the result of unknown or unconsidered forces; the issue of uncertain conditions; an event not calculated upon; an unexpected occurrence; a happening; accident, fortuity, casualty."
As stated by the master, the plan contemplates that each
person who becomes a member or codperator pays three dollars as enrollment fee, and agrees to pay the sum of one dollar
per month for sixty months or five years; and also agrees to
codperate by inducing othei members or persons to become
cobperators, shall receive his pro 'ata share of the total amount
realized when entitled to a "realization" as provided at the
end of five years; or in case he shall have secured three new

PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE v. COYNE.
194 U. S.

Opiniou of the Court.

members in any one year, he may realize or receive at the end
of each year one-fifth of the amount which he would be entitled
to receive at the end of five years, assuming that the growth
of the five years continued at the same rate. The plan also
contemplates that in the end the member who secures new
members, and the one who does not, shall receive the same
amount. All members joining the league during the same
month constitute a class by themselves and are entitled to
realize in all respects precisely the same amount and at the
same time, excepting the member who obtains new cooperators may receive his realization in yearly installments
instead of in one lump at the end of the five years' period.
We do not consider it necessary to enter into the details of
the plan, which is a somewhat complicated one, and the
success of which obviously depended upon constantly and
rapidly increasing the number of subscribers or co6perators.
The only money paid in was a small enrollment fee of three
dollars and a monthly payment of one dollar for five years.
The return to the subscribing member, which is called a
realization, is not only uncertain in its amount, but depends
largely upon the number of new members each subscriber is
able to secure, as well as the number of members which his
codperators are able to secure. The return to members who
have been able to secure a large number of other members,
and to pay their own monthly dues, may be very large in
comparison with the amount paid in, but the amount of such
return depends so largely, and indeed almost wholly, upon
conditions which the member is unable to control, that we
think it fulfills all the conditions of a distribution of money
by chance. In becoming a codperator each new member evidently contemplates that a large number, probably a large
majority, of those subscribing will drop out before the end
of five years. That some will and some will not induce others
to become members, and that the amount ultimately realized
depends not only upon his own prompt payment of dues and
his own exertions, but upon a corresponding action by other
voL. cxcIv-33

OCTOBER. TERM, 1903
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

cooperators. One thing, however, is entirely clear, and that
is, the success of the scheme depends wholly upon the ability
of the members to increase the number of subscribers, and, as
there is no reserve fund provided for their indemnification,
there is sure to be a loss to every one interested in the enterprise as soon as the number of new members ceases to increase.
Counsel for complainant liken the scheme to that of an
ordinary life insurance company, which at an early date was
thought by some to involve the elements of chance, but was
finally held to be a legitimate business. In *uch policies there
is the payment of a fixed sum which matures either at the
death of the assured or upon the happening of some other
contingency expressly provided for in the policy. There is
no uncertainty as to the amount to be paid, as in this case,
nor does it depend upon the conduct of other persons insured
in the same company, but simply upon payment of premiums
by insured. The only contingency is the time as to when the
policy is to mature, and the profits are calculated upon the
theory that the premiums paid, with the interest thereon, will
in the end amount to more than the sum becoming due upon
the happening of the contingency. There is also a reserve
fund provided for the security of policy holders in case no new
applications are made for insurance or the business of the
company is abandoned. As the. only funds provided in this
scheme are small monthly payments which are constantly
being divided in the shape of monthly realizations, there is no
possibility of a reserve fund for the security of the cobperators.
The uncertainty of the amount realized upon these settlements is evident from the fact that while a member may possibly realize ag ,1gh as fifteen dollars for every dollar invested
by him, he may' realize no profit at4 all, or, in case the business
is suspended may realize nothing.
In the careful and satisfactory report of the master the plan
of the complainant is briefly described "as a plan for securing
morley from a constantly increasing large number for the
benefit of a constantly increasing smaller .number; with an

PUBLIC CLEARING HOUSE v. COYNE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

absolute certainty that when the enterprise reaches an end
for any reason the large number will lose every dollar they
have put into it, and in the meantime the smaller number will
have realized such amounts as may have resulted from the
growth of the larger number; but no one can predict what
that growth will be."
It is true, as urged by the counsel for complainant, that in
investing money in any enterprise the investor takes the chance
of small profits, or even of failure, as well as the hope of large
profits; but such enterprises. contemplate the personal exertions of the investor, or of his partners, agents or employ~s,
-while in the present case his profits depend principally upon
the exertions of others, over whom he has no control and with
whom he has no connection. It is in- this sense the amount
realized is determinable by chance.
The scheme lacks the elements of a legitimate business enterprise, and we think there was no error in holding it to be a
lottery within the meaning of the statute. Indeed, we think
that no scheme of investment which must ultimately and
inevitably result in failure can be called a legitimate business
enterprise. The cases upon the subject of the definition of
a lottery are carefully collated and criticised by Mr. Justice
Blatchford in Horner v. United States, 147 U. S. 449, 458, and
are held to extend to all schemes for the distribution of prizes
by chance, such as policy playing, gift exhibitions, prize concerts, raffles at fairs, etc., and various forms of gambling.
That the party injured has a rigl~t to invoke the judicial
power of the Government whenever his property rights have
been invaded by the exercise of such po*er, was settled by this
court in Noble v. Union River Logging Railroad, 147 U. S. 165,
as well as in the McAnnulty case. But as already indicated,
it would practically arrest the executive arm of the Government if the heads of departments were required to obtain the
sanction of the courts upon the multifarious questions
arising
in their departments, before action were taken, in any matter
which might involve the temporary disposition of private

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

property. Each executive department has certain public
functions and duties, the performance of which is absolutely
necessary to the existence of the Government, but it may
temporarily, at least, operate with seeming harshnes, upon
individuals. But it is wisely indicated that the rights of the
public must in these particulars o"verride the rights of individuals, provided there be reserved to them an ultimate recourse to the judiciary.
In the view we have taken of this case, and of the action of
the court below, as well as of the course of the argument here,
we have not found it necessary to inquire whether the action
of the Postmaster General in basing his fraud order upon the
theory that the defendants were engaged in a scheme for
obtaining money or property by means of false representations,
was sustainable or not. As already stated, the master found
that there had been no false representations of existing facts
and no unfair dealing with the co6perators; yet, as we held in
Durland v. United States, 161 U. S. 206, the misrepresentation
of existing facts is not necessary to a conviction under a statute applying to "any scheme or artifice to defraud." As was
observed by Mr. Justice Brewer, (p. 313,) "Some schemes may
be promoted through mere representations and promises as
to the fature, yet are none the less schemes and artifices to
defraud.

.

.

.

In the light of this the statute must be

read, and so read it includes everything designed to defraud
by representations as to the past or present, or suggestions and
promises as to the future. The significant fact is the intent
and purpose." But, notwithstanding this question, we are
satisfied the Postmaster General did not exceed his authority
in making the order in this case, and the judgment of the court
below is therefore
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES concurred in the result.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

dissented.

