OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

194 U. S.

cost must be paid by a front foot assessment on their property;
they recognized the justice of the assessment from time to
time during the progress of the work, and afterwards by paying annual installments of the assessment for seven years and
until they were tempted by the decision of the Supreme Court,
in Baker v. Norwood, to cast their burden upon the general
public, and it is now too late to complain of the method of the
assessment or of the lack of the special benefits which were
dissipated by the collapse of the 'boom.'
We do not consider the validity of the contention on the
part of the plaintiffs, that the act or the assessment in furtherance of its provisions violates in any particular the Federal
Constitution. For the reason given above we are of opinion
the judgment is right, and it is
Affirmed.

BURRELL v. MONTANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 218.

Submitted April 13, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.

A witness who voluntarily testifies cannot resist the effect of the testimony
by claiming that he could not have been compelled to give it. The time
to avail of a statutory protection is when the testimony is offered.
The provision in the bankruptcy act of July, 1898, requiring the bankrupt
to testify before the referee, but providing that no testimony then given
by him shall be offered iln evidence against him in any criminal proceeding, does not amount to exemption from prosecution, nor does it deprive
the evidence of its probative force after it has been admitted without
objection in a criminal prosecution against the bankrupt in a state court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. E. C. Day for plaintiff in error:
Plaintiff in error submitted to the cross-examination in
the state court relative to his testimony before the referee in

BURRELL v. MONTANA.
194 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

bankruptcy without objection, and error was not assigned in
the Supreme Court upon the cross-examination. It was assigned with reference to the giving of the instruction to the
effect that the examination before the referee in bankruptcy
amounted to a voluntary admission which was competent
evidence in a criminal prosecution against the bankrupt.
I'rior to this examination and the institution of these criminal
proceedings the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in May, 1900, decided in Mackel v. Rochester, 102 Fed.
Rep. 314; S. C., 42 C. C. A. 427, that a bankrupt could not
refuse to answer questions relating to his transactions on the
ground that his answers would tend to incriminate him, for
the reason that his constitutional privilege against his selfincriminating evidence was protected by the Bankruptcy Act
of 1898, ch. 3, § 7, subd. 9. See also Brown v. Walker, 161
U. S. 591. Mackel v. Rochester has never been reversed or
overruled. At the time of the examination and at the time
of the criminal trial, it was the law of the circuit that the
bankrupt could not decline to answer questions put to him
upon his examination upon the ground that his answer might
tend to incriminate him, and his submission to the examination
was to that extent not voluntary.
The ultimate jurisdiction over questions involving the constitutionality of the United States bankrupt laws rests in the
Federal comqrts, and such courts having pronounced said law
to be constitutional, a defendant who brings- himself within
its provisions will have a complete defence. Keene v. Miou'ld,
16 Ohio St. 12. The decision of this court upon the cojistitutionality of the legal tender act is of paramount authority,
and state courts are bound by whatever construction that
court places upon the law.. Black v. Luslc,. 69 Illinois, 70;
Barringer v. Fisher, 45 Mississippi, 200; Kellogg v. Page, 44
Vermont, 356.
The state court is bound to follow the decisions of this court
as to whether an act of Congress is constitutional or not.
Hicks v. Hotchkiss, 7 Johns. Ch. 297; Burwell v. Burgess, 32

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

194 U. S.

Grat. 472; Ex parte Bushnell, 9 Ohio St. 77; Mooney v. Hinds,
160 Massachusetts, 469; State v. Sioux City &c.. Ry. Co., 46
Nebraska, 682.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, until it was
reversed or overruled, was entitled to the same credit and force
and effect in the courts in the State of Montana as the decision
of the Supreme Court of the United States. Consequently
when it appeared in the state court that the defendant, now
plaintiff in error, had been examined before the referee in
bankruptcy
n
touching the matters out of which grew the transaction complained against in the criminal proceeding, it was
the duty of the state court to have dismissed the proceeding.
The immunity given by the Bankruptcy Act, if any, goes
further than a mere immunity against the admission in evidence of the, testimony given before the referee in bankruptcy.
- It-goes, and must go, if it is to secure to him his constitutional
privilege, to the extent of protecting him from prosecution for
"any crime growing out of the transaction about which he has
been examined. Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591; Mackel v.
Rochester,' 102 Fed. Rep. 314.

This then was a jurisdictional question touching the right
of the state court to prosecute him for offenses growing out
of these transactions, and being jurisdictional in its character
could be raised at any time, even after conviction and sentence. It was contended by counsel for the State that the
immunity granted by the act extended only to prosecutions
by the Federal government. That" question, however, has
been otherwise decided by this court in the case of Brown v.
Walker, supra.
Mr. James Donovan, Attorney General of Montana, for
defendant in error:
Mackel v. Rochester cited as sustaining plaintiff in error is
mere dictum and is clearly against the well considered decision
of the Supreme Court in the case of Counselman v. Hitchcock,
142 U. S.564, and against the great weight of Federal author-

BURRELL v. MONTANA.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ity. See editorial note to Mackel v. Rochester, 4 Am. Bk.
Rep. page 1, and cases therein cited; In re Scott, 1 Am. Bk.
Rep. 49; In re Hathorn, 2 Am. Bk. Rep. 298; In re Rosser, 2
Am. Bk. Rep. 755; In re Feldstein, 4 Am. Bk. Rep. 321; In
re Walsh, 4 Am. Bk. Rep. 693.
As to whether or not the provision of the Bankruptcy
Act referred to above can have effect upon the courts of the
State of Montana, or be applicable thereto, or whether or
not Congress has any power to say what shall be or what
shall not be evidence in a state court, Congress has no such
power. See dissenting opinion in Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S.
591; Barron v. Mayor, 7 Pet. 247; Bowlin v. Commonwealth,
92 Am. Dec. 468; Knox v. Rossi, 48 L. R. A. 305; Thomas v.
State, 46 L. R. A. 481, and notes; Small v. Slocumb, 37 S. E.
Rep. 481, and cases cited; Clemens v. Conrad, 19 Michigan, 170;
Sammons v. Halloway, 21 Michigan, 162; People v. Gates, 43
N. Y. 40; Moore v. Moore, 47 N. Y. 467; Moore v. Quirk, 105
Massachusetts, 49.
While defendant was examined by the referee, and the testimony so taken was used by counsel for the State reading from
the testimony produced and left with him by the referee in
bankruptcy, and interrogating the witness with the aid of
such testimony it does not appear that any objection was
interposed by defendant to the questions asked or to the use
of such testimony, and he must therefore be deemed to have
waived all such objections by 'failing to make them at the
proper time. State v. Burrell, 27 Montana, 282.
An objection to the reception of evidence cannot be raised
for the first time on appeal. Griswold v. Boley, 1 Montana,
553; Stafford v. Hornbuckle, 3 Montana, 488; Rutherford v.
Talent, 6 Montana, 134; Bass v. Buker, 6 Montana, 447; Brand
v. Servoss, 11 Montana, 87; Bank v. Greenhood, 16 Montana, 458,
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error was convicted upon information filed in
the District Court of the Eighth Judicial District of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

of Montana of the crime of obtaining money under false pretenses. The judgment of conviction was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the' State. 27 Montana, 282.
The false pretenses consisted of a false statement in writing
made to the Royal Milling Company, a corporation, concerning his assets and liabilities, whereby he induced the company
to sell him goods of great value.
Plaintiff in error testified in his own'behalf, and during the
cross-examination he was questioned in regard to statements
made by him in testimony made before the referee in bankruptcy in his own proceedings. No objection was made.
In view of the examination the trial court instructed the
jury as follows:
"The court instructs the jury that the fact that defendant
testified in an insolvency proceeding in obedience to a -citation
did not deprive him of his right to refuse to answer questions
tending to criminate him, if he did answer any such questions,
and an admission made by him in such proceeding is voluntary
and competent evidence in a criminal prosecution subsequently inaugurated, where he was not in custody or charged
with a criminal offense when he made such admission, if he
did make any such."
Plaintiff in error excepted to the instruction as follows:
"For the reason that said instruction invades the province
of the jury, in that it directs their attention to the alleged
admissions of the defendant and is a charge upon the effect
antd weight of the evidence. The defendant excepts to the
instruction for the further reason that the same does not
correctly state the law, in this, that it appears from the testimony that the defendant had testified upon an examination
before a referee in bankruptcy, held pursuant to the provisions
of the act of Congress, approved July 1, 1898, which said act
provides as follows: Chapter III, section, etc. 'But no testimony given by him (upon his examination) shall be offered
in evidence against him in any criminal proceeding.' And
the said instruction is against the law."

BURRELL v. MONTANA.
* 194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The instruction seems to oppose the provisions of the statute, but the circumstances of the case must be considered.
There was no objection made to the introduction of the testiiiony, and, as we understand the instruction, it was but the
expression of the vgdue of the testimony. The contention of
plaintiff in error must have been in the trial court as it was in
the Supreme Court and is here, to wit, that section 7 of the
bankruptcy act grants more than a mere immunity against
the admission in evidence of -the testimony given before the
referee in bankruptcy-=that it grants himprotection from
prosecution for any crime growing out of the transaction about
which he was examined; and this necessarily to secure to him
the full protection of that clause of the Constitution of the
United States which provides that "no person shall be compelled in criminal cases to be a witness against himself." Upon
this broad contention he must now rely. A narrower contention might have been yielded to by the state courts. It certainly §hould have been submitted to them. The statute
does not prohibit the use of testimony against the consent of
him who gave it. It prescribes a rule of competency of evidence which may or may not be insisted upon. It does not
declare a policy the protection of which cannot be waived.
And the time to avail of it is when the testimony is offered.
Af er the testimony is admitted its probative force cannot be
limited. This could not be contended even under the broader
provision of the Constitution. A witness who voluntarily
testifies cannot resist the effect of the testimony by claiming
that he was not compellable to give it.
In the, case at bar, the court dealt with testimony which
had been admitted without question or objection. We are
brought, therefore, to the broad and ultimate contention of
the plaintiff. We think it is untenable. There is no ambiguity
in section seven of the bankrupt act. It requires a bankrupt
to submit to an examination concerning his property and
affairs, and provides: "But no testimony given by him shall
be offered in evidence against him in any criminal proceedVOL. cxciv-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

ing." It does not say that he shall be exempt from prosecution, but only, in case of prosecution, his testimony cannot
be used against him.
The two things are different, and cannot be confounded.
The difference is illustrated by the different constructions this
court has given to section 860 of the Revised Statutes and the
provisions of the act of Congress of February 11, 1893, c. 83,
27 Stat. 443.
In Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, it was contended
that the protection of section 860 was that of the Constitution,
and it was sought to compel a witness to testify to matters
which he claimed would incriminate him. This court held
against the contention, and the witness was justified. We
did not attempt to extend the section to the prohibition of
criminal prosecutions, but confined its immunity to that which
was expressed, to wit, that the testimony given should not
"be given in evidence, or in any manner used, against him or
his property or estate, in any court of the United States, in
any criminal proceeding.
The act of February 11 was different and the ruling upon
it was different. It provided as follows:
"But no person shall be prosecuted or subjected to any
penalty or forfeiture for or on account of any transaction,
matter or thing, concerning which he may testify, or produce
evidence, documentary or otherwise, before said Commission,
or in obedience to its subpoena, or the subpoena of either of
them or in any such case or proceedifig."
It was held in Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, that the act
was virtually one of "general aninesty," and the protection of
the Constitution was "fully accomplished by the statutory
immunity." As in Counselman v. Hitchcock a witness before
a grand jury which was investigating alleged violations of the
Interstate Commerce Act, claimed that questions addressed
to him "would tend to accuse and incriminate him." Upon
proceedings in the District Court he was adjudged guilty of
contempt and ordered to pay a fine of five dollars and to be

TERRE HAUTE &c. RAILROAD CO. v. INDIANA.
194 U. S.

579

Statement of the Case.

taken into custody, until he should answer the question. He
petitioned the Circuit Court for writ of habeas corpus, and from
the judgment remanding him to custody prosecuted an appeal
to this court. It was held that he was compellable to answer.
In the case at bar, as we have already said, plaintiff in error
did not claim the protection afforded him by the bankrupt
act. He made no objection to the use of the testimony which
he gave before the referee, nor does he now urge its use as
error. He broadly claimed and now claims exemption from
prosecution. For the reasons we have given the claim is
untenable.
Judgment affirmed.

TERRE HAUTE AND INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. INDIANA ex rel. KETCHAM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 264.
Argued April 29, May 2,1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.
Where the state court has sustained a result which cannot be reached except
on what this court deems a wrong construction of the charter without
relying on unconstitutional legislation this court cannot decline jurisdiction on writ of error because the state court apparently relied more on
the unfenable construction than on the unconstitutional statute.
A provision in a charter of a railroad company that the legislature may
so regulate tolls that not more than a certain percentage be divided as
profits to the stockholders and the surplus shall be paid over to the
state treasurer for the use of schools, held, in this case to be permissive
and not mandatory and that until the State acted or made a demand
the railroad company could act as it saw fit as to its entire earnings.
When, therefore, the company surrendered its original charter and accepted
a new one without any such provision and there had up to that time been
no attempt on the part of the State to regulate tolls nor any demand made
for surplus earnings the company was free from liability under the original
charter, and subsequent legislation attempting to amend its charter or
the general railroad law would not affect its rights.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

