JONES v. MONTAGUE.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

JONES v. MONTAGUE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE,
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 189.

Argued April 4, 5, 1904.-Decided April 25, 1904.

Where the case is one in prohibition, and it appears by conclusive evidence
aliunde that since judgment by dismissal in the lower court the thing'
sought to be prohibited has been done and cannot be undone by any
order of court, there is nothing remaining but a moot case and the writ
of error will be dismissed. Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651.

ON November 14, 1902, plaintiffs in error filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia,
in behalf of themselves and others similarly situated, their
petition for a writ of prohibition. The petition set forth that
the petitioners were citizens of the United States, citizens and
residents of the State of Virginia, and of the third Congressional
district of that State, and entitled to vote at the election held
on November 4, 1902, for a member of the House of Representatives of the United States from that district; that they
applied to the proper registration board for registration and
were refused. It was further alleged that in 1901 a constitutional convention was assembled in Virginia; that it framed a
new constitution; that it did not submit such constitution to
the people for approval, but by a vote of forty-seven to thirtyeight ordained it as the organic law of the State. Attached to
the petition were copies of the constitution, of a schedule making
provisions for putting in force the new constitution without
inconvenience, and of an ordinance providing for the registration of voters, all of which were adopted by the same convention. The petitioners also charge that the purpose of the
party in power was the disfranchisement of the colored voters
of the State, and specifically set forth how this disfranchisement was to be accomplished. They averred that at the
election held on November 4, 1902, only the registration lists
provided for by the ordinance were recognized; that abstracts

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. 81

of the votes cast in the several cities and counties were certified
to the Secretary of the Commonwealth, at Richmond, Virginia,
and that the defendants, as the board of state canvassers,
would assemble on the twenty-fourth of November, 1902, and
would, unless prohibited, canvass the election returns, declare
the result and give certificates to the parties found to be
elected. The prayer of the petition was that a writ of prohibition
issue to the defendants "prohibiting them, and each of them,
from considering, canvassing, counting, determining upon, or
certifying or otherwise acting upon, any returns or abstracts
of returns in the office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth
of Virginia, .purporting to be returns of election held in the
State of Virginia, Tuesday, November 4, 1902, for representatives in Congress from the State of Virginia, or in any wise
dealing with or certifying the results of said returns as returns
of a lawful election, held in Virginia on the date aforesaid.
That by reason of the matters and things hereinabove set
forth, said pretended election, and any and all precinct, county,
district or state returns made thereunder, may be held to be
null, void and of no effect, and the said board of state canvassers, and the members thereof, may be prohibited from in
any wise proceeding to act upon the same as lawfully before
them for their consideration. That pending the hearing, and
until the final decision upon this petition for said writ of
prohibition, an order may be granted by this honorable court
suspending any and all proceedings, on the part of said board
of tAte canvassers and the members thereof, upon any and all
of the matters sought to be prohibited until the final decision
of this cause. And for such other and further orders in the
premises as shall and may make the prayer of your pecitioners
effectual."
After answer by defendants the writ of prohibition was
denied by the Circuit Court and the petition dismissed. The
dismissal was based on a want of jurisdiction, whereupon the
petitioners'brought the case on error directly to this c6urt. A
motion has here been made to dismiss the writ of error on the

JONES ?. MONTAGUE.
194 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

ground that everything sought to be prohibited has already
been done, and that there is nothing upon which any order of
the court can operate. In support of the motion an affidavit
of the Secretary of the Commonwealth has been filed, to the
effect that after the dismissal of the petition by the Circuit
Court the board of canvassers convened at the office of the
Secretary in accordance with the law of the State, and upon
the returns then on file canvassed the votes, determined the
parties found by such canvass to have been elected, and that
a certificate to that effect had been prepared and transmitted
to each of the persons declared to have been elected a representative in Congress from the State of Virginia.
Mr. John S. Wise for plaintiffs in error:
As to the motion to dismiss:
The motion is founded upon a misapprehension of the character of the relief sought in the two proceedings. The fact
that the Board of State Canvassers, after the decisions, did a
particular act, does not destroy either the substance of the
petition or complaint, or the continuing character of the injury
sought to be redressed. Both the bill and the petition sought
relief from the continuing oppression of a conspiracy, to which,
the defendants were parties.
The effect of the operations of the conspiracy upon the
plaintiffs and the class on behalf of which the pejtion and
complaint were exhibited, was to disregard their lawful registration and right to vote, and the laws permitting them to
do so; to have the false returns so ihade up, certified to this
State Board of Canvassers, and to have these defendants, as
participants in the conspiracy, recognize those false returns
as lawful and compute results from them.
The substance of the injury complained of was not the single
threatened act of counting the returns of that particular election, but the threatened recognition by the defendants, as the
law of the State, of invalid acts, ordinances and schedules of
a convention, for their guidance then and thereafter; under

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

194 U. S.

which recognition the class complaining would then and thereafter be deprived of their voice in the political affairs of the
State.
The law complained of was a continuing law; the injury
complained of was a continuing injury; the test of the validity
of the law, while it arose on an attempt to prevent that particular act, cannot be evaded, if the decision below was erroneous,
by pleading that the particular act complained of has been
accomplished before the error is reversed.
The appeal should not be dismissed, because, before it was
made effectual, the first injury was accomplished to the complaints, and it is manifest that if it was an injury, it is only the
first of a series of injuries to be inflicted upon them, unless the
defendants are enjoined. The case is not at all like those in
which a single act is the subject of injury. The defendants are
a continuous body, with continuous duties of identically the
same character as each function is performed, and those duties
are dependent for their validity upon the validity of the law
under which the returns are made to them. The rights of the
parties complainant are continuous rights and rights of a recurring nature of which they are deprived at recurring intervals, so long as the defendants are allowed to invoke and act
under a void law. If those laws are invalid, it would be impossible, upon the contention of the defendants, to test them,
so long as the court below should continue to decide in defendants' favor; for each time a bill or petition was exhibited
the writ would be denied, the act would be (lone and nothing
would be left to bring up here, if the point of defendants be
well taken.
Mr. William A. Anderson and Mr. Frank W. Christian for
defendants in error:
As to motion to dismiss:
Everything sought to be prohibited in this proceeding has
already been done, and nothing remains upon which any order
of the court can operate.

JONES v. MONTAGUE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court. ,

After the lower court refused the prohibition prayed for in
this case, the Board of State Canvassers of Virginia met and
canvassed the returns for members of the House of Representatives, and the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Virginia
issued writs of election to the members of the House of Representatives elected at such election. This court should take
judicial notice of these facts.
The suggestion made by opposing counsel that the proceeding
involves the validity or invalidity of the e~ection held in November 4, 1902, and the Constitution and ordinance of registration of Virginia, and, therefore, the future rights of the
complainants, is without force; for it is manifest that a decree
adjudicating those questions would be merely upon abstract
or moot questions; and it has been uniformly held that the
court will not undertake to pass upon such questions. We,
therefore, submit that this writ of error will be dismissed upon
the ground above stated. See Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651,
and cases cited; United States v. Hoffman, 4 Wall. 158.
MR.JUSTIcE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Mills v. Green, 159 U. S.651, is decisive, and compels a dismissal of the writ of error. That was a suit in equity, alleging
the calling of a convention to revise the constitution of South
Carolina and seeking to enjoin an alleged illegal, partial and
void registration by which the plaintiff, and others like him,
would be deprived of the right to vote for delegates to the
convention. An injunction was granted' by the Circuit Court,
but was dissolved by the Circuit Court of Appeals and the suit
dismissed. Thereupon the election was held, the convention
met and entered upon the discharge of its duties. An appeal
to this court from the order of dismissal made by the Circuit
Court of Appeals was dismissed on the ground that the object
of the suit could no longer be attained. Mr. Justice Gray,
delivering the opinion, said (pp. 653, 657, 658):
"The duty of this court, as of every other judicial tribunal,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

is to decide actual controversies by a judgment which can be
carried into effect, and not to give opinions upon moot questions
or abstract propositions, or to declare principles or rules of law
which cannot affect the matter in issue in the, case before it.
It necessarily follows that when, pending an appeal from the
judgmen t of a lower court, and without any fault of the defendant, an event occurs which renders it impossible for this court,
if it should decide the case in favor of the plaintiff, to grant him
-any effectual relief whatever, the court will not proceed to a
formal judgment, but will dismiss the appeal. . . . In
the case at bar the whole object of the bill was to secure a
right to vote at the election, to be held, as the bill alleged, on
the third Tuesday of August, 1895, of delegates to the constitutional convention of South Carolina. Before this appeal was
taken by the plaintiff from the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals dismissing his bill, that date had passed; and, before
the entry of the appeal in this .€ourt, the convention had
assembled, pursuant to the statute of South Carolina of 1894,
by which the convention had been called. 21 Stat. S. C. pp.
802, 803. The election of the delegates and the assembling
of the convention are public matters, to be taken notice of by
the court, without formal plea or proof. ...
It is obvious,
therefore, that, even if the bill could properly be held to present
a case within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, no relief
within the scope of the bill could now be granted."
See also Codlin v. Kohlhausen, 181 U. S. 151; Tennessee v.
Condon, 189 IT. S.64.
The case before us is one in prohibition. It is so declared
by the petitioners in their petition, and the thing sought to
be prohibited was a canvass of the votes cast at the election
on November 4, 1902. The facts alleged in respect to the constitution, the purpose of the dominant party, the action of the
convention, the refusal to submit the proposed constitution
to the vote of the people, and the registration ordinance, were
all stated for the purpose of showing that the election on November 4, 1902, was illegal, and that there ought to be no

SELDEN v. MONTAGUE.
Counsel for Parties.

194 U.S.

canvass of the returns cast at that election. The prayer of the
petitioners specifically is to retain such canvass.. Even the
general clause at the close of the prayer is "for such other and
further orders in the premises as shall and may make the
prayer of your petitioners effectual." But-as shown by the
affidavit, and as indeed we might perhaps take judicial notice
by the presence in the House of Representatives of the individuals elected at that election from the various Congressional
districts of Virginia-the thing sought to be prohibited has
been done and cannot be undone by any order of court. The
canvass has been made, certificates of election have been issued,
the House of Representatives (which is the sole judge of the
qualifications of its members) has admitted the parties holding
the certificates to seats in that body, and any adjudication
which this court might make would be only an ineffectual
decision of the question whether or not these petitioners were
wronged by what has been fully accomplished. Under those
circumstances there is nothing but a moot case remaining, and
the motion to dismiss must be sustained.
Dismissed without costs to either party.

SELDEN v. MONTAGUE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 190.

Argued April 4, 5, 1904-Deeided April 25, 1904.

Dismi sed on authority of preceding case.

ARGUED simultaneously with and by the same counsel as
Jones v. Montague; p. 147 ante.

