INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.

25

Syllabus.

194 U. S.

tised in advance to all who were interested to prevent, and the
reason for it declared to be that the income of the property was
less than the fixed charges; in other words, had no valuerepresented only liabilities. No one intervened. Creditors
did not, and this suit was not brought until December, 1900three years after the surrender of the lease. The conclusion is
irresistible that the judgment of the stockholders in surrendering
the lease was honestly and prudently exercised. This is
fortified by the prayer of the bill. Appellant does not ask
to have the surrender of the lease set aside and the bank restored to its relations and obligations to Schleier. He asks
that the bank be relieved from all obligations and the cost of
the building imposed as a charge upon the real estate.
It is unnecessary to discuss the ruling of the Circuit Court
on the motion to file an amended bill. The bill tendered was
fuller and more explicit than either the original bill or the
amendments thereto, but it alleged nothing which would
affect the legal conclusions from the facts to which we have
adverted. And we may observe that it is exceedingly disputable whether it is an abuse of discretion to deny a motion
to file an amended bill after final judgment has been entered.
Decree affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.
APPEAL. FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW

YORK.

No. 409. Argued March 7,8, 1904.-Decided April 4, 1904.

The object of construction is to ascertain the legislative intent, and, if possible, to effectuate the purposes of the lawmakers.
Although not in accord with its technical meaning, or its office when properly used, a frequent u~e of the proviso in Federal legislation is to introduce new matter'extending, rather than limiting or explaining, that which
has gone before.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

Under the proviso in § 3 of the act of February 19, 1903, a direct appeal
may be taken to this court from a judgment of the Circuit Court in a
proceeding brought by the Interstate Commerce Commission, under the
direction of the Attorney General, to obtain orders requiring the testimony
of witnesses and the production of books and documents.
Relevancy of evidence does not depend upon the conclusiveness of the testimony offered, but upon its legitimate tendency to establish a contioverted
fact.
Where a company owned by a railroad purchases coal at the mines or
breakers under a contract fixing the price to the vendor on the basis of a
percentage of the average price received at.tidewater in another State,
it being claimed that this transaction was the means whereby the
railroad gave preferential rates to the companies selling the coal, the Interstate Commerce Commission may, in a proceeding properly instituted, inquire into the manner in which the business is done, and compel, through
the Circuit Court, the testimony of witnesses and the production of the
contracts relating thereto.
Where coal companies who had organized a competing line to tidewater
made contracts with 'railroad companies for the purchase of the collieries
by the railroad companies, which resulted in the abandonment of the
proposed competing line, the contracts are relevant evidence bearing
upon the manner in which rates'were fixed, and their production before
the Commission in an investigation, properly commenced, as to the reasonableness of coal rates, should be ordered by the Circuit Court.
Compelling the giving of such testimony and the production of such contracts does not deprive the witnesses of any rights under the Fourth and
'Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States.

THIs is an appeal from an order made in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New 'York in
the matter of the- petition of the Interstate Commerce Commission for orders requiring the testimony of witnesses, and the
production of certain .books, papers and documents. The
petition recites that the Attorney General of the United States,
at the request of the Interstate Commerce Commission, instructed the United States District Attorney for the Southern
District of New York to present the petition and institute
proper proceedings for the enforcement of the provisions of
the acts to regulate interstate commerce as 'amended, and to
invoke the aid of the court in requiring. the. attendance and
testimony of witnesses and'the production-of books, papers and
documents, pursuant to the provisions of said acts. The case

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.
194 U. S.

27

Statement of the Case.

grows out of a complaint of William Randolph Hearst, filed on
November 2, 1902, with the Interstate Commerce Commission,
against the Philadelphia and Reading Railway Company,
Lehigh Valley Railroad Company, Delaware, Lackawanna and
Western Railroad, Central Railroad Company of New Jersey,
New York, Susquehanna and Western Railroad Company,
Erie Railroad Company, New York, Ontario and Western
Railway Company, Delaware and Hudson Company, Pennsylvania Railroad Company and Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company.
In the complaint it was charged: That the defendants are
common carriers, engaged in the transportation of passengers
and freight between points in different States of the United
States, and are particularly engaged in the transportation of
anthracite and bituminous coal mined in Pennsylvania, Maryland and West Virginia, and shipped as interstate traffic over
said lines, and are carriers Subject to the provision of the act
of February 4, 1887, to regulate commerce, and the acts
amendatory thereto; that the rates charged and exacted by
the defendants for the transportation of anthracite coal in
carloads from points in the anthracite coal region of Pennsylvania to New York city and New York harbor points and
internal points of destination in the State of New York, to
Boston and other points in the New England States, to Baltimore and other points in the State of Maryland, and to Washington, in the District of Columbia, are unreasonable and unjust, and subject consumers and producers of such coal, who
are not common carriers or corporations owned and controlled
by common carriers, to undue and unreasonable prejudice and
disadvantage in favor of and to the undue and unreasonable
preference and advantage of said defendants and companies
under their control, in violation of sections 1 and 3 of the act
to regulate commerce; that the rates charged and exacted by
the defendants for the transportation of anthracite coal are
relatively unreasonable and unjust, and unjustly discriminating
against the interests of dealers and consumers of that corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

modity as compared with the rates contemporaneously charged
by said defendants for transportation of bituminous coal for
much longer distances and to the points of destination above
mentioned, and also as compared with the defendants' rates
and charges on other carload freight generally, all of which is
a violation of §§ 1, 2 and 3 of the act to regulate commerce;
that the defendant companies-Lehigh Valley Railroad Coin-.
pany, Central Railroad Company of New Jersey, Delaware,
Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company, New York,
Susquehanna and Western Railroad Company and the Philadelphia and Reading Railway Company-are, in the absence
of agreement, natural competitors in the business of transporting anthracite coal from the coal fields of Pennsylvania to
tide-water at New York, two of said defendants-the Lehigh
Valley Railroad Company and the Central Railroad Company
of New Jersey-being substantially parallel lines; that in 1896,
1897, 1898, 1899, 1900 and 1901 the six defendants last named,
by an agreement and combination with one another, pooled
and have during the year -1902 pooled freights and freight
traffic in anthracite coal, so as to divide the same between
their different lines in agreed proportions, in violation of § 5
of the act to regulate commerce. The prayer of the petition
was that the defendants be required to make answer to the
charges, and, after hearing, for an order or orders commanding
the said defendants, and each of them, wholly to cease and
desist from each and every of the alleged violations of the act
to regulate commerce, and for such further order or orders and
action by the commission as its duty under the act and the
cause of petitioner and others similarly situated may require.
Answers were filed by the railroad companies, taking issue with
the allegations of the petition and denying violation of the
law. In the course of the hearing certain witnesses refused
to produce contracts and answer questions when required so
to do by order of the commission, which refusal gave rise to
the petition to the Circuit Court. The character of the tesfimony required by the order of the commission is sufficienlly

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.
194 U. S.

29

Argument for Appellant.

set forth in the opinion hereinafter given.

To the petition

answers were filed too lengthy to abstract, and in substance
setting forth the right of the defendants to refuse the production of the papers and documents and to decline to answer
the questions because the same did not relate to any subject
which the commission had the right to investigate and the
contracts relate to the private business of persons not parties
to the proceedings before the commission; that the witnesses
are protected in their right to refuse to produce the contracts
or answer the questions by the Fourth, Fifth and Tenth
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States; that
the contracts were not relevant to the subject matter of investigation before the commission. The Circuit Court placed its
decision on the latter ground, and dismissed the petition of the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. William A. Day, assistant to the Attorney General,
and Mr. John G. Carlisle for appellant:
On the motion to dismiss. This appeal can be prosecuted.
Suits by the Interstate Commerce Commission, whether they
are at law or in. equity, are not prosecuted in the name of the
United States, and therefore, while the act of February 11,
1903, specifically referred to suits brought to enforce the act,
yet it could have no practical application to them; and in order
to remedy this defect the act of February 19, 1903, was passed.
See also § 12 of the Act to regulate commerce as amended
March 2, 1889, and February 10, 1891. This is a proceeding
of the same. nature as that provided for, in § 16 of the act to
regulate commerce and in..§ 3 of the act of February 19, 1903.
As to meaning of word "case" and the construction of this
statute, see Interstate Com. Com. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447;
Rich v. Keyser, 54 Pa. St. 86,,.89; Endlich on Interp. 534;
Hunter v. Martin, 1 Wheat. 304, 337. As to effect pf proviso,
see Minis v. United Staies, 15 Pet. 423; Ches. & Pot. Tel. Co.
v. Manning, 186 U. S. 238, 242; Austin v. United States,' 155
U. S. 417, 431; Georgia Banking Co. v. Smiths- 128 U. S. 174,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
Argument for Appellant.

194 U. S.

181. The word "provided" is not always used to introduce a
technical proviso but new legislation; for instances, see 17
Stat. 195; 18 Stat. 72; 18 Stat. 351; 18 Stat. 525; 31 Stat.
1023.
This case is also appealable under § 5 of the Court of Appeals act of 1891 as it involves the construction or application
of the Constitution of the United States. Cornell v. Green,
163 U. S. 75, 78; Filhiol v. Maurice, 185 U. S. 108, 110; Penn
Mut. Life v. Austin, 168 U. S. 685, 695; Holder v. Aultman, 169
U. S. 81, 88; Loeb v. Columbia Township, 179 U. S. 472, 479;
Desty's Fed. Proc. notes under § 5 of the act of 1891. Cases
on appellee's brief distinguished as they involved the construction of provisions of law materially different from §5 of
the act of 1891.
As to the merits, the commission has jurisdiction to hear
this complaint even if complainant is not a shipper of coal
himself. The act expressly so provides. The commission was
making a general investigation under § 12 of the act and the
Hearst complaint was simply the occasion of the investigation.
The test of relevancy in a proceeding before this commission is not the strict test applied to trials at common law.
"Relating to" as used in the statute is a broader term even
than "relevant to." The commission must in its examinations
take a broad range if it is to fulfill the purposes of its creation.
Brimson's Case, 154 U. S. 473; Interstate &c. v. Cincinnati&c.
Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479, 506; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Interstate &c.,
162 U. S. 212, 233.
Even if the contracts relate to sale and not to transportation
of coal, the carriers cannot object to their production, as they
themselves have blended the two subjects so that an investigation of one involves the other. See for instance Powell v.
Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 685. The contracts, however,
are not for sales as they purport to be but for transportation.
There is nothing in the contention that by being compelled to
testify the constitutional rights of witnesses would be invaded.
Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 608.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.
194

U.S.

31

Argument for Appellee.

Mr. John G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Francis I. Gowen and
Mr. F. H. Janner were on the brief, for appellees Thomas and
Baird.
Mr. Adelbert Moot, with whom Mr. George F. Brownell was
on the brief, for appellees Richardson and Sturges.
Mr. Walter W. Ross for appellees Truesdale, Chambers and
Post.
Mr. J. D. Campbell submitted a brief for appellees Baer and
Brown.
Mr. Robert W. de Forhst and Mr. Robert Thorne submitted a
brief for appellee Waterman:
This court has no jurisdiction. No constitutional question
is involved as in the Brimson Case, 154 U. S. 447. This direct
appeal is not authorized under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891.
No question of jurisdiction of the .Circuit Court has been
certified to this court. No construction or application of the
Constitution can be said to have been involved in the judgment below, nor did the Circuit Court constrte the Constitution, nor was it requested to construe it. Cornell v. Green, 163
U. S. 78; Ansbro v. United States, 159 U. *. 698; Lampasas v.
Bell, 180 U. S. 276; Muse v. Arlingtoi Hotel Cb., 168 U. S. 430;
-earey v. Houston & Texas Central, 150 -U. S. 170; Defiance
Water Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 184; Arbuckle v. Blackburn,
191 U. S. 405; NW. U. Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. Co:, 178 U. S.
276, 282.
The constitutional question must be the controlling question
in the- case. Carter v. Roberts, 177 U. S. 496, 500; Casey v.
Houstan & Tex Cent., 150 U. S. 170, .181.
This case is not unlike the case of a "supervisory" order in
bankruptcy proceedings, that is not a finial order, Wisall v.
Campbell, 93 U. S. 347; Cauro v. Crane, 94 U. S. 441; or an

OCTOBER TERM1, 1903.
Argument for Appellee.

194 U. S.

order dissolving an injunction pending suit, McCollum v.
Eager, 2 How. 61, 64; or the case of a discretionary order
refusing to open a decree, Brockett v. Brockett, 2. How. 238,
240; or an order refusing to let one intervene as a party, Ex
parne Cutting, 94 U. S. 14. It is a merely interlocutory order
so no appeal will lie. McGourkey v. Railway Co., 146 U. S.
536, 545; Van Stone v. S. & B. Mfg. Co., 142 U. S. 128, 134.
Nor is this a case. The party setting the proceedings in motion has no rights to assert. Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 819.
An appeal does not lie unless the party appealing has an interest. Bryant v. Thompson, 128 N. Y. 426, 434; Nat. Ex.
Bk. v. Peters, 146 U. S. 570.
If a statute does not authorize the appeal the United States
cannot maintain an appeal in this court.. United States v.
Railway, 105 U. S. 624. Nor can an official succeed upon appeal when he is not legally aggrieved, even if other officials are
aggrieved, who do not appeal. Cherokee Co. Com. v. Wilson,
109 U. S. 626. A party not legally affected by a decision cannot appeal; or trustees of bondholders, F. L. & T. Co. v.
Waterman, 106 U. S. 269; or a receiver, Close v. G. Cemetery,
107 U. S. 474. An unaffected party generally cannot appeal.
See Brown v. Smart, 145 U. S. 459, and cases there cited.
The commission have and can have no legal "controversy"
with the parties here, and by submitting the case to the commission for decision upon further evidence without instituting

this proceeding Mr. Hearst has shown he has no "controversy" to bring here, so no "controversy" is brought before
this court by the appeal and it must be dismissed. Little v.
Bowers, 134 U. S. 547, 652, and'cases cited p. 558.
This appeal is not authorized by the acts of February 11,
1903, or February 19, 1903. In construing these acts the court
must determine whether Congress intended that in any proceeding under the direction of the Attorney General in the name
of the commission an appeal would lie to this court. As to the
principles of construction applicable to the Constitution and
laws of United States, see Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213;

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.
194 U. S.

33

Argument for Appellee.

Petri v. Commercial Bank, 142 U. S. 650; McKee v. United
States, 164 U. S. 293; Smith v. Townsend, 148 U. S. 494, and
cases cited; United States v. Union Pac. R. Co., 91 U. S. 72, 79;
Van Patten v. Chi. M. & St. P. R. Co., 81 Fed. Rep. 547;
Smythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374, 384. The intention of the lawmaker is the law. Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S.
47, 59..

The clause of section 3 of the act of February 19, is in the
form of a proviso. The ordinary purpose of a proviso in a
statute is to qualify or restrict the statute, or the particular
section thereof to which it is attached. Sutherland on Statutory Construction, § 223; Minis v. United States, 15 Pet. 423;
Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 236. It is ordinarily applicable only to such statute or section, and should
be construed with reference thereto. Lehigh v. Meyer, 102
Pa. St. 479. It will not be deemed from doubtful words to be
intended to enlarge or extend the act or provision on which it
is engrafted. In re Webb, 24 How. Pr. 247, 249. The form
used indicates that the clause is intended to apply only to § 3
to which it is attached.
The last amendment is confined to suits brought in the
name of the United States. History of the legislation should
be looked at to get its intent. Am. Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468, 474.; Smythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374,
380; Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S.197, 212.
The object of ihe act of .March 3, 1891, was to relieve this
court of just such work as this appeal involves. McLish v.
Roff, 141 U. S.665. The motion to dismiss should be granted.
Interstate &c. v. Atchison &c. Co., i49 U. S.264.
On the merits. Hearst had no interest in the contracts and
could not demand their production. Greenleaf, § 298. See
Haddock's Case, 4 I. C. C. R. 322; Brimson's Case, 154 U. S.
478. The D. L. & W. road has the right to engage in buying,
seiling and mining of coal as well as its transportation. Laws
of Pennsylvania, 1832, p. 316; 1849, p. 648; 1855, p. 110; 1869,
p. 31.
VOL. cXCIV-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellee.

194 U. S.

As to the jurisdiction of the commission, see 1 Supp. U. S.
Rev. Stat. 529; Interstate &c. v.C. N. 0. & C. Ry. Co., 167
U. S.506.
The contracts were only for the purchase of coal, not for
its transportation from one State to another.
A contract made between citizens of Pennsylvania providing
that the owner will sell a part or all of the coal which he digs
from his mines to the purchaser at a certain price under which
it is delivered at the mines in that State is wholly a domestic
transaction governed exclusively by the domestic law, if such
law is not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
The coal which is the subject of the contract is a part of the
general mass of property of that State and subject to its jurisdiction.
The purchase of the coal at the mines was a domestic transaction and subject exclusively to the laws of Pennsylvania,
and the commission exceeded its jurisdiction when it directed
the witnesses, at the request of Hearst, to produce such contracts for his inspection, or when it directed the *itnesses to
produce papers showing the cost of such coal, or to answer
questions as to the cost of producing coal or selling it.
When, however, the coal started on its "final movement for
traiisportation" from Pennsylvania to New Jersey-or any
other State-the rate charged for its transportation became a
proper subject oi inquiry before the commisdion, under proper
circumstances. The witnesses did not refuse to give any evidence on that subject.
But when the coal arrived at its destination in another
State it forthwith became intermingled with the property of
such State and subject to its jurisdiction, and the Commission
was without jurisdiction to require the witnesses to answer
questions as to the selling price of coal.
These principles are firmly established by the decisions of
this court. Brown v. Houston, 114 IJ. S.622; Pittsburg Coal
Co. v. Beet, 156 U. S.577; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.517; Hopkins
v. United States, 171 U. S.578; United States v. Knight, 156

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD,
194 U. S.

35

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 1; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U. S. 1, and cases cited on p. 5;
Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S. 82.
Congress could not give the commission power to inquire into
the intra-state business of common carriers. It is clear that
it did not intend to do so; seo § 12, limiting inquiries to "common carriers, subject to the provisions of this act."
When the act is read as a whole, it shows it was not intended
to give the commission the power to inquire into the business
of coal mining companies, or of coal mining, or of selling coal,
even if coal mining corporations turn out to be railroad corporations, or corporations owned by railroads, where that is permitted, as in Pennsylvania. Com. v. Erie, 132 Pa. St. 591; 139
Pa. St. 457. See Purd. Dig. ed. Kay & Bro. 1895, vol. 1, 49 pl.
202. The new constitution of Pennsylvania did not affect
preexisting chapter. Hays v. Commonwealth, 82 Pa. St.
524.
The business of such corporations engaged in mining and
selling coal in Pennsylvania, whether that business is regarded
as appertaining to real estate, Brine v. Ins. Co., 96 U. S. 627,
or domestic commerce touching personal property, United
States v. Knight, 156 U. S. 1, 11, is all domestic business subject to the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, and not subject
to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act. Penna.
R. R. v. Duncan, 11 Pa. St. 352; Gloninger v. RailroadCo., 139
Pa. St. 324; Ahe v. Rhoads, 84 Pa. St. 324; Williamsport Pass.
Ry. v. Williamsport, 120 Pa. St. 1, 11.
The constitutional rights of appellees are invaded by this
attempt to take their private papers from them for inspection
of Hearst. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 627.
Mh. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion is made.td dismiss the appeal upon the ground
that no direct appeal lies to :this court from the order of the
Circuit Court. The act of February 19, 1903, (Comp. Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

104 U. S.

1901, Sup. for 1903, p. 365,) to further regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the States, § 3, closing paragraph,
enacts, "Provided, That the provisions of an act entitled 'An
act to expedite the hearing and determination of suits in equity
pending or hereafter brought under the act of July second,
eighteen hundred and ninety, entitled 'An act to protect trade
and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies,'
'An act to regulate commerce,' approved February fourth,
eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, or any other acts having
a like purpose that may be hereafter enacted, approved February eleventh, nineteen -hundred and three,' shall apply to
any case prosecuted under the direction of the Attorney
General in the name of the Interstate Commerce Commission."
The second section of the act of February 11, 1903, (Comp.
Stat. of 1901, Sup. for 1903, p. 376,) provides, "That in every
suit in equity pending or hereafter brought in any Circuit
Court of the United States under any of said acts [having reference to the anti-trust act of 1890 and the act to regulate
commerce mentioned in the preceding section] wherein the
United States is complainant, including cases submitted but
not yet decided, an appeal from the final decree of the Circuit
Court will lie only to the Supreme Court and must be taken
within sixty days from the entry thereof."
In support of the motion to dismiss it is argued that the language of the proviso of section 3, above quoted, "shall apply
to any case prosecuted under the direction of the Attorney
General in the name of the Interstate Commerce Commission,"
must be read in connection with preceding paragraphs of the
section, which provide for bringing actions by direction of the
Attorney General in the Circuit Courts of the United States,
and do not include proceedings of the character of the present
action to compel the production of books and papers and the
giving of testimony by witnesses called before the commission.
It is true that the office of a proviso, strictly considered, is
to make exception from the enacting clause, to restrain generality and to prevent misinterpretation, Minis v. United

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD. 37
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

-States,15 Pet. 423; Austin v. United States, 155 U. S. 417, 431;
White v. United States, 191 U. S. 545, 551. It is apparent that
this proviso was not inserted in any restrictive sense or to
make clear that which might be doubtful from the general
language used. It was inserted for the purpose of enlarging the
operation of the statute so as to include a class of cases not
otherwise within the operation of the section. It may be
admitted that this use of a .proviso is not in accord with the
technical meaning of the term or the office of such part of a
statute when properly used. But it is nevertheless a frequent
use of the proviso in Feddral legislation to introduce, as in the
present case, new matter extending rather than limiting or
explaining that which has gone before.
In Chesapeake & Potomac Tel. Co. v. Manning, 186- U. S.
238, 242, the subject was under consideration, and Mr. Justice Brewer, delivering the opinion, while recognizing the restrictive office of a proviso as stated by Mr. Justice Story in
Minis v. United States, 15 Pet. 423., 445, added: "While this
is the general effect of a proviso, yet in practice it is not always
so limited. As said in Georgia Banking Company v. Smith,
128 U. S. 174, 181: 'The general purpose of a proviso, as is
well known, is to except the clause covered by it from the general provisions of the statute, or from some provisions of it, or
to qualify the operation of the statute in some particular.
But it is often used in other senses. It
a common practice
in legislative proceedings, on the consideration of bills, for
parties desirous of securing amendments to them to precede
their proposed amendments with the term" provided," so as to
declare that, notwithstanding existing provisions, the one thus
expressed,, is to prevail, thus having no greater .signification
than would be attached to the conjunction "but" or "an]'" in
the same place, and simply serving to separate or distinguish
the different paragraphs or sentences.'
The provision if the statute under consideration being intended to enlarge rather than limit the application of previous
terms should not receive so narrow a construction as to defeat

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

104 U. S.

its purpose. It extends the terms of the act of February 11,
1903, to "any case" brought fnder the direction of the Attorney General in the name of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The second section of the act of February 11, has
reference, it is. true, to a suit in equity under certain acts
wherein the United States is complainant, and the argument
is that the extension of the terms of this act in the act of
February 19 is only to suits in equity. But for some reason
Congress, in the act under consideration, saw fit ntot to limit
the terms of the extension to suits or proceedings provided for
in section 3 of the act of February 19, or to suits in equity, but
broadly extended the rights and privileges of the act of February 11, to "cases" of the character designated. We cannot assume that this use of the broader term was without purpose. Before the passage of'this act this court had held that a
petition filed under section twelve of the interstate commerce
act against a witness duly summoned to testify before the
,commission, to compel him to testify or to produce books,
documents and papers relating to the matter in controversy,
makes a case or controversy to which the judicial power of the
United States extends. Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Brimson, 154 U. S. 447. The object of construction, as has
been often said by the courts and writers of authority, is to
ascertain the legislative intent, and, if possible, to effectuate
the purposes of the lawmakers. We cannot read these statutes
,without. perceiving the manifest purpose of Congress to facilitate the disposition of cases brought under the direction of tho
Attorney General to enforce the provision 6f the anti-rust
and interstate commerce statutes. The present proceeding
is not merely advisory to the commission, but,'as was said in
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, supra, a judg-.
ment rendered will be a final and indisputable basis of action
as between the commission and the defendant, and furnish a
precedent for similar cases. Whil6 it has for its object, the
obtaining of testimony in aid of proceedings before the commission, it is evident that important questions may be in-

INTERSTATE COM-MERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.
194 U. S.

39

Opinion of the Court.

volved touching the power of the commission and the constitutional. rights and privileges of citizens. Congress deemed
it imperative that such cases, affecting the commerce of the
country as well as personal rights, should be promptly determined in a court of last resort.
If the appeal in the first instance was to the Court of Appeals the judgment of that court would not be final under the
act of March 3, 1891, and in suh case this court would still be
required to consider the cases on final appeal. We think it
was the purpose of the act to eliminate an appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals and to permit the litigation to, be shortened
by a direct appeal to this court.
We .pass now to the merits of the controversy. The record
in this case is voluminous, and much of the discussion before
the commission is printed. We shall endeavor to classify and
consider the questions made so as to indicate our- holdings
with a view to a proper judgment in the case.
It is urged that the complainant before the commission did
not show any real interest in the case brought, and that the
proceeding should for that reason have been dismissed. It
is provided in the act to regulate commerce, see. 13, that " any
person, firm, corporation," etc., complaining of anything done
or omitted to be done by'any common carrier subject to the
provisions of this act, in contravention of the provisions
thereof may apply to said commission by petition, etc. And
certain procedure is provided for -and (said' commission)
"may institute any inquiry on its own motion in the same
manner and to the same effect as though complaint had been
made," and the section concludes: "No complaint shall at any
time be dismissed because of the absence of direct damage to
the complainant."
In face of this mandatory requirement
that the complaint shall not be dismissed because of the want
of direct damage, to the complainant, no alternative is left the
commission but to investigate the complaint, if it presents
matter within the purview of the act and the powers granted
to the commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Power is conferred upon the commission, under section 12
of the act as amended March 2, 1889, and February 10, 1891,
(3 U. S. Comp. Stat. of 1901, p. 3162,) to inquire into the
management of the business of all common carriers subject
to the provisions of the act, and to keep itself informed as to
the manner and method in which the same is conducted, with
the right to obtain from such common carriers full and complete information necessary to enable the commission to perform the duties and carry out the objects for which it was
created.
In making the orders which were the basis of the application
to the Circuit Court and in the petition filed therein it is set
forth that the commission at the time when the witnesses
refused to produce the contracts required, was engaged "in the
discharge of its duty to execute and enforce the provisions of
the act to regulate commerce and in the exercise of its authority
to inquire into the business of common carriers subject to the
provisions of the act, and to keep itself informed as to the
manner and method in which said business is conducted, antl
to obtain from said common carriers full and complete information necessary to enable it to perform the duties and
carry out the objects for which it was created; and your 'petitioner is of the opinion that said contracts are not only material and relevant to the issues on trial in said proceeding,
but that the production thereof as required by it, as aforesaid,
is necessary to enable your petitioner to discharge its duty
and execute and enforce said provisions of said act to regulate
commerce and to inform your petitioner as to the manner and
method in which the business of said common carriers is conducted, and to enable your petitioner to obtain the full and
complete information necessary to enable your petitioner to
perform the duties and carry out the objects for which it was
created."
But in the present case, whatever may be the right of the
commission to carry on an investigation under the general
powers conferred in section 12, this proceeding was under the

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.
194 U. S.

41

Opinion of the Court.

complaint filed, and we will examine the testimony offered
with a view to its competency under the allegations made by
the complainant.
Coming now to the specific items of testimony, which the
Circuit Court in dismissing the petition considered irrelevant
to the controversy, we will first consider the so-called coal
purchase contracts.
It is unnecessary for the present purpose to go into detail as
to the provisions of these contracts. In the main they were
made with coal companies owned principally by the railroad
companies, and contain the same general provisions. Among
others, the purchase price of anthracite coal above a certain
size is to be 65 per cent of the average price, computed monthly,
at certain tide points, of coal of the same quality and size. All
the coal mined by the contracting operators is sold, shipments
to be made as called for by the purchasers.
While the contracts were produced for inspection, the witnesses refused to permit them to be given in evidence. The
Circuit Court held them to be irrelevant upon the ground that
they related solely to an interstate transaction-the sale of the
coal in Pennsylvania-and had nothing to do with interstate
commerce. It appears that the railroad companies proceeded
against in the complaint are engaged in carrying coal from the
anthracite coal regions to tidewater. The contracts are between certain coal companies and independent operators engaged in mining coal in that region. The testimony shows
that the coal companies making the contracts are principally
owned by the railroad companies. For what purpose this
separate ownership is maintained it is not necessary now to
inquire. The fact of such ownership is undisputed, and for
the present purpose it may be conceded that the ownership
is lawful under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania.
The railroads are all engaged in interstate commerce, and
into their affairs and methods of doing business the commi,,sion might be, and is, lawfully authorized by the commer: c
act to make investigation. In speaking of this power as under-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

taken to be vested in the commission, this court said in the
Brimson case, 154 U. S. 447, 472: "It was not disputed at the
bar, nor indeed can it be successfully denied, that the prohibition of unjust charges, discriminations or preferences by carriers engaged in interstate commerce, in respect to property
or persons transported from one State to another, is a proper
regulation of interstate commerce, or that the object that
Congress has in view by the act in question may be legitimately
accomplished by it under the power to regulate commerce
among the several States. In every substantial sense such
prohibition is a rule by which interstate commerce must be
governed, and is plainly adapted to the object intended to be,
accomplished. The same observation may be made in respect to those provisions empowering the commission to inquire into the management of the business of carriers subject
to the provisions of the act, and to investigate the whole subject of interstate commerce as conducted by such carriers,
and, in that way, to obtain full and accurate information of
all matters involved in the enforcement of the act of Cofigress.
It was clearly competent for Congress, to that end, to invest
the commission with authority to require the attendance and
testimony of witnesses, and the production of books, papers,
tariffs, contracts, agreements and documents relating to any
matter legally committed to that body for investigation."
In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati, New Or-

leans &c. Railway Co., 167 U. S.479, 506, this court held that
the commission had no power to fix rates. In the course of the
opinion it was said: "It [the commission] is charged with the
general duty of inqfiiring as to the management of the business
of railroad companies, and to keep itself informed as to the
manner in which the same is conducted, and has the right to
compel complete and full information as to the manner in
which the same is conducted."
The testimony shows that much of the coal purchased under
these contracts is sold in Pennsylvania, but a considerable
portion is carried to tidewater. The coal is purchased by

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.
194 U. S.

43

Opinion of the Court.

companies owned by the railroads, for which payment is made
on the basis of 65 per cent of the general average price received at tidewater by the sale of sizes above pea coal, leaving
35 per cent for the purchaser, from which he must pay transportation charges and cost bf sale. Here is a railroad company
engaged at once in the purchase of coal through a company
which it practically owns and the transportation of the same
coal through different States to the seaboard. Why may not
the Interstate Commerce Commission, under the powers conferred, and under this complaint, inquire into the manner in
which this business is done? It has the right to know how
interstate traffic is conducted, the relations between the carrier
and its shippers and the rates charged and collected. We see
no reason why contracts of this character, which have direct
relation to a large amount of its carrying trade, can be withheld
from examination as evidence by the commission. These contracts were made by the officials of the railroad companies, who
were also officials f the coal companies, after protracted conferences. Upon the ground that they pertained to the manner
of conducting a material part of the business of these interstate
carriers, which Was under investigation, we think the commission had a right to demand their production. And, further,
it was claimed that, while these contracts were in form purchases of coal, their real purpose was to fix a rate for transportation to the carriers, who were in fact paid for the only
interest they ha tin the coal-the right to receive pay for its
transpqtation-by the percentage retained from the sellifig
price SAfter deducting charges and expenses in marketing the
coal.
It is to be remembered in this connection that we are not
dealing wi*h the ultimatn fact of controversy or deciding which
of the contending claims will be finally established. This is a
question of relevancy of proof before a body not authorized to
make a final judgment, but to investigate and make orders
Which may or may not be finally embodied in judgments or
decrees of the court. If the railroad companies in fact re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

ceived their compensation for carriage from the sum retained
by the coal companies as was claimed, then whether they
realized more or less than their published rates depended upon
the price of coal. Taking the prices at times as shown in the
statements filed with the commission, it is apparent that the
35 per cent was less than published rates, and if that was the
sum received for transportation, would work a discrimination
against coal companies not having such contracts and paying
the full rate. On the other hand, if the coal companies paid
the full rate, and failed to realize as much from the percentage
of the selling price retained they would be losing money, and
as they were owned by the railroad companies the loss would
be ultimately theirs and not the coal companies. It may be
that the commission or the courts will untimately find that
these contracts do not fix the compensation received by the
carriers, and that, as claimed, the' full rate is paid by these
purchasing companies, and if there is a loss on these contracts
it is made up in other business; but, as we have said, the question concerns the relevancy of proof and not whether it finally
establishes the issue made, one way or the other. !Relevancy
does not depend upon the conclusiveness of the testimony
offered, but upon its legitimate tendency to establish a controverted fact. Relevancy is that "quality of evidence which
renders it properly applicable in determining the truth or
falsity of the matter in issue between the parties to a suit."
1 Bouvier Law Die. Rawle's Revision, 866.
The inquiry of a board of the character of the Interstate
Commerce Commission should not be too narrowly constrained
by technical rules as to the admissibility of proof. Its function is largely one of investigation and it should not be hampered in making inquiry pertaining to interstate commerce
by those narrow rules which prevail in trials at common law
where a strict correspondence is required between allegation
and proof.
It is contended in the answers filed in the Circuit Court that
to require the production of these contracts would be to compel

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.
194 U. S.

45

Opinion of the Court.

the witnesses to furnish evidence against themselves which
might result in forfeiture of estate in violation of the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution; would subject the parties to
unreasonable searches and seizure of their papers contrary to
the Fourth Amendment, and would require them to produce
papers pertaining wholly to intrastate affairs in violation of the
reserved rights of the people of the States, and beyond the
power of the commission, whose duties are limited to investigations pertaining to interstate commerce.
At the hearing the constitutional objections do not seem to
have been relied upon; those argued pertained to the relevancy
of the proof and the rights of persons not before the court to
be protected from the publication of their private contracts.
As to the constitutional'objection based upon the Fifth Amendment, the act as amended February 11, 1893, expressly extends
immunity from prosecution or forfeiture of estate because of
testimony given in pursuance of the requirements of the law.
The full gonsideration of the subject and the decision of this
court in Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, renders further consideration of this objection unnecessary.
The origin and interpretation of the Fourth Amendment
to the Constitution, securing immunity from unreasonable
searches and seizures, was fully discussed by Mr. Justice Brad
ley in the leading case of Boyd'v. United States, 116 U. S. 616.
In that opinion the learned Justice points out the analogy
between the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, and the object
of both to protect a citizen from compulsory testimony against
himself, which may result in his punishment or the forfeiture
of his estate, or the seizure of his papers by force, or their com-

pulsory production by process for the like purpose. In the
couiie of the opinion it is said: "Breaking into a house and
opening boxes and drawers are circumstances of aggravation;
but any forcible and compulsory extortion of a man's own
testimony or of his private papers to be used as evidence to
convict him of crime or to forfeit his goods is within the condemnation of that judgment. In this regard the Fourth and

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Fifth Amendments run almost into each other." And see
Adams V. People o/ the State oj New York, 192 U. S. 585,
decided at this term.
As we have seen, the statute protects the witness from such
use of the testimony given as will result in his punishment for
crime or the forfeiture of his estate. Testimony given under
such circumstances presents scarcely a suggestion of an unreasonable search or seizure. Indeed, the parties seem to' have
made little objection to the inspection of the papers, the contest was over their relevancy as testimony. Nor can we see
force in the suggestion that these contracts were made with
persons not parties to the proceeding. Undoubtedly the
courts should protect non-litigants from unnecessary exposure
of their business affairs and papers. But it certainly can be
no valid objection to the admission of testimony, otherwise
relevant and competent, that a third person is interested in it.
As to the so-called Temple Iron Company contracts: It
appears that in 1889 certain operators in the anthracite coal
region organized a competing railroad, with a view to carrying.
their product from the coal regions to market at tidewater.
It became evident that this company was likely to succeed, and
to construct a compeling railroad from the coal fields to the sea.
With a view to acquiring its property, five of the leading railroad
carriers purchased the collieries whose proprietors were developing the new scheme. To pay for these the charter of the Temple Iron Company was purchased and its capital stock increased. The company issued a large amount of stock and
bonds, and the contracting railroad companies agreed among
themselves and with the Guaranty Trust Company of New
York, as trustee, to guarantee a six per cent dividend upon the
Temple Iron Company stock and the payment of principal and
interest of the bonds. This ended the building of an independent line, and the transportation of coal from the collieries
is distributed among the carriers interested.
I It is argued that these contracts, if given in evidence, will
tend to show a pooling of freights, in violation of the fifth

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. BAIRD.
194 U. S.

47

Opinion of the Court.

section of the commerce act. While this testimony may not
establish such an arrangement as is suggested, it has, in our
opinion, a legitimate bearing upon the question. There is a
division of freight among several railroads, where, by agreement or otherwise, the companies have a common interest in
the source from which it is obtained. Furthermore, we think
the testimony competent as bearing upon the manner in which
transportation rates are fixed, in view of determining the
question of reasonableness of rates, into which the commission
has a right to inquire. To unreasonably hamper the commission by narrowing its field of inquiry' beyond the requirements of the due protection of rights of citizens will be to
seriously impair its usefulness and prevent a-realization of
the salutary purposes for which it was established by Congress.
An appeal is also prosecuted from 'the refusal ofthe Circuit
Court to order the witnesses Ebqn B. Thomas and William H.
Truesdale to answer certain questions respecting the prices and
sale of coal. Upon the principles already discussed we think
these questions had legitimate bearing upon the matters into
which the commission was making inquiry.
We are of the opinion that the Circuit Court erred in holding
the contracts for the purchase of coal by the companies or
directly- by the railroad, where a percentage of the price was
agreed to be paid for the coal, to be irrelevant, and in refusing
to order their production as.evidence by the witnesses who are
parties to the appeal, and likewise erred as to the Temple Iron
.Company contracts, and in refusing to require the witnesses
aforesaid to -answer the questions stated in the petition, and
-the order appealed from is reversed, and the cause is remanded
to the Circuit Court for further proceedings in accordance with
this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissents.

