UNITED STATES v. SING TUCK.
Syllabus,,

194 U. S.

The description of what is intended to be conveyed could not
be plainer. But the habendum is "to have and to hold the
above granted land," and it is said that as the fishery of an
overlord or konohiki, unlike the rights of tenants, did not pass
as an incident of land, but must be distinctly granted, the
fishery was not included in the patent. Haalelea v. Montgomery, 2 Hawaiian Rep. 62, 71. Again, we must avoid being
deceived by a form of words. We assume that a mere grant
of the ahupuaa without mention of the fishery would not convey
the fishery. But it does not follow that any particular words
are necessary to convey it when the intent is clear. When the
description of the land granted says that there is incident to it
a definite right of fishery, it does not matter whether the statement is technically accurate or not; it is enough that the grant
is its own dictionary and explains that it means by "land" in
the habendum land and fishery as well. There is no possibility
of mistaking the intent of the patent. It declares that intent
plainly on its face. There is no technical rule which overrides
the expressed intent, like that of th common law, which requires the mention of heirs in order to convey a fee. We are
of opinion that the patent did what it was meant to do, and

therefore that the plaintiff is entitled to prevail.
Judgment reversed.

UNITED STATES v. SING TUCK OR KING DO AND

THIRTY-ONE OTHERS.
CERTIORARI

TO

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 591. Argued April 7, 1904.-Decided April 25, 1904.

It is one of the necessities of the administration of justice that all questions
-even though fundamental*--should be determined in an orderly way,
and it is within the power of Congress to require one asserting the right
to enter this country on the ground that he'is a citizen, to establish his
citizenship in some reasonable way.

Vol,. cxciv-11

OCTOBER TERAI, 1903.
Argument for the United States.

194 U. S.

A mere allegation of citizenship by a person of Chinese descent is not suffi(lent to oust the inspector of jurisdiction under the alien immigrant law
and allow a resort to the courts without taking the appeal to the Secretary
provided for in the act, and unless such appeal has been taken and
decided a writ of habeas corpus will be denied.
THE facts, which involved the right to enter the United
States, of certain persons of Chinese descent who claimed to
be citizens of the United States, are stated in the opinion of
the court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds for the United

States:
The Circuit Court of Appeals did not have jurisdiction
of the appeal. The appeal should have been direct to this
court. Am. Sug. Rel. Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277, 281;
Union Bank v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71.

The direct course of all the later decisions, both English and
American, is to establish the rule that probable cause must
first be shown to obtain the writ of habeas corpus, Whether it be
granted at common law or under the statute. Church on
Habeas Corpus, § 92; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193; Ex parte
Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, 110; Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 250; Ex
parte Terry, 128 U. S. 301. At common law no evidence was
necessary to support the return to the writ. It was deemed
to import verity until impeached. Hurd on Hab. Corps.
Bk. 2, c. 3, §§ 8, 10; Church on Hab. Corps. §§ 122, 160, 170.
This rule is not changed by any statute of the United States.
Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86, 94; Holden v. Minnesota,

137 U. S. 483, 491.
The purpose of the Chinese exclusion acts and regulations
adopted for making them effective is to prevent the landing
of Chinese persons in the United States, unless it affirmatively
appears that they are exempt from the general provisions
because officials, teachers, students, merchants, travelers, or
citizens of the United States. If officers should permit entry
of any one of that race without demanding satisfactory proof
of facts, they would grossly violate their duty. As to all

UNITED STATES r. SING T(UCK.
194 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Chinese except such as claim birth in the United States, respondents do npt deny this.
The return shows that of the 32 Chinamen examined, 27
made then no claim of birth in the United States and no show
of right to enter therein. Five said they were born in the
United States, but refused to give information to support
such claim, and by their action made it incredible.
The original petition asserted citizenship upon information
and belief. The return denied, upon information and belief,
that respondents were citizens, and stated that they were alien
Chinese laborers not entitled to entry. No denial was made of
any facts set out in the return nor was application made to
reply thereto in any way. Such .facts must, therefore, be
taken as true and the action of the court in dismissing the writ
cannot be held to be error. The very ground upon which the
petition was based was denied and there was nothing to put
the denial in issue.
In any view of the facts brought by the return before the
court it Was the clear duty of the immigration officers to
detain all of the respondents, and as it was their duty so to do,
such detention could not be illegal. It follows, wholly irrespective of the question as to the finality of findings by immigration officers. under the act of 1894, that the writ in the
present case was properly dismissed, no illegal detention having
been shown. Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 201; Wales v. Whitney,
114 U. S. 571; Ex parte Curtis, 106 U. S. 375; Ekiu v. United
States, 142 U. S. 651; Carter v. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 381.
Where the law has confided to a special tribunal the authority to hear and determine certain matters arising in the
course of its duties, the decision of that tribunal, within the
scope of its authority as to questions of fact is conclusive upon
all others. See as to action of administrative officers in the Land
Department, Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 83; Smelting Company v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636. The courts have power to grant
relief when the special tribunal acts contrary to law, or possibly
where a manifest wrong has been lone, and only in such cases.

OCTOBER TERM,

1903.

Argament for Respondents.

194 U. S.

Burfenning v. Chicago, St. Paul &c. Railroad, 163 U. S. 32t,
323; School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94, 108.
If the mere unsupported statement of a Chinaman that he
was born. in the United States, entitles him to enter, the Exclusion Acts will prove farcical.
When Chinese persons present themselves for admission into
the United States it is the duty of immigration officers to pass
upon their claims. If citizenship is alleged, that, like other
questions of fact, must be determined by such officers. Except, possibly, in extraordinary cases an adverse decision by
the immigration officer is final, subject to an appeal to the
Secretary of Cominerce and Labor, and it cannot be reviewed
upon writ of habeas corpus. In re Moy Quong Shing, 125 Fed.
Rep. 641. The Gee Fook Sing Case, 49 Fed. Rep. 146, was decided without argument. 'And see Lem Moan Sing v. United
States, 158 U. S. 547; Chin Bak Kan v. United States, 186-U. S.
193, 200; Japanese Emigrant Case, 189 U. S. 97.
Mr. Robert M. Moore, with whom Mr. W. W. Cantwell
was on the brief, for respondents:
A person of Chinese. descent born within the United States is
a citizen thereof and the provisions of the Chinese Exclusion
Act do not apply to such persons. United States v. Wong Kim
Ark, 169 U. S.653.
Citizenship is a right. Every person claiming it has the
constitutional right to have it determined judicially in a constitutional court.
Congress cannot Withdraw from judicial cognizance a matter
which is the subject of a suit at common law or in equity. This
right of citizenship is safe-guarded by the Con-stitution of the
United States, which provides that "no person shall be deprived
of life,liberty or property, without due process, of law." See
case reported in 94 Fed. Rep.. 834; Gee Fook Sing v. United
States, 49 Fed. Rep. 146.
Habeas corpus is the only, and is the proper, remedy. Jew
Wong Loy v. United States, 91 Fed. Rep. 240; In re Jung Ah

UNITED S'UATES I. SING TUCK,
1.94 U. S.

Argument for Respondents.

Lung, 25 Fed. Rep. 14t, affirmed 124 U. S. 621. The alien act
does not apply -to citizens.
The pretended trial and adjudication by the immigrant inspector in these cases was not due process of law. The rules
prescribed by the Secretary of Labor and Commerce are arbitrary and unjust.
The legislature is not Vestod with the power to aibitrarily
provide that any procedure.it may choose to declare such shall
be regarded as due process of law. Colon v. List, 153 N. Y.
188; Burton v. Platter, 10 If. S. App. 657.
Art. 14 of Amds. of Const. of U. S. is a restraint on the legislative as well as on the executive and judicial power!-, of the
government, and cannot be so construed as to leave Congress
free to make any process "due pwocess of law" by its mere wilt.
MA'eyers v. Shields, 61 Fed. Rep. 713; Holden v. flardy, 169
U. S. 366; Murray v. Hoboken Land Co., 18 How.. 272; Dorman
v. State, 34 Alabama, 216; In re Ziebold, 23 Fed. Re;p. 791;
Argument of Daniel Webster in Dartmouth College v..IWoodward, 4 Wheat. 518.
As applied to judicial proceedings the term "due process of
law " neans a course of proceeding according to those rules nd
principles which have been established in our system of jurisprudence for the protection and enforcement of private rights.
It is imperative that thare be a court of competent jurisdiction;
that the proceeding be regular and appropriate to the question
involved; and that the trial be a fair one. Rees v. Watertown,
19 Wall. 107; Carr v. Brown, 38 Atl. Rep. 9; Burton v. Platter,
10 U. S. App. 657; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97;
Dwight v. Williams, 4 McLean, 581; Parsons v. Russell, 11
Michigan, 113; Huber v. Riley, 53 Pa. St. 112; In re Ah Lee, 5
Fed. Rep. 899; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 723; Hennessey v.
Volhening, 30 Abb. N. Cas. 100; Ziegler v. So. &e. Ala. R. Co.,
58 Alabama, 594; Brown v. Hummel, 6 1.a. St. 86; Jenson v.
Union Pacific, 6 Utah, 253.
There was no evidence before the' inspector upon which he
could base a judicial determination.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

A Chinese inspector is in no sense a judicial officer and cannot
be under the Constitution. See 32 Stat. c. 1021, § 23.
Section 1, Art. 3, Const. U. S. provides: "The judicial power
of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and
in such inferior courts as Congress may from time to time ordain and establish."
Section 2 provides: "That judicial power shall extend to all
cases, in law and equity."
MR. JUsTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of habeas corpus against a Chinese Inspector
and Inspector of Immigration. It appears from his return
that the Chinese persons concerned came from China by way
of Canada and were seeking admission into the United States.
On examination by an inspector five gave their names, stated
that they were born in the United States, (United States v. Wong
Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649,) and answered no further.4tuestions.
The rest gave their names and then stood mute, not even
alleging citizenship. The inspector decided against their right
to enter the country and informed them of their right to appeal
to the Secretary of Commerce and Labor. No appeal was
taken, and while they were detained at a properly designated
detention house for return to China a petition was filed by a
lawyer purporting to act on their behalf, alleging that they
all were citizens of the United States, and this writ was obtained. In the Circuit Court the detention was adjudged to be
lawful, and the writ was dismissed without a trial on the
merits. This decision "was reversed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals on the ground that the parties concerned were entitled
to a judicial investigation of their status.
By the act of August 18, 1894, 28 Stat. 372, 390, "In every
case where an alien is excluded from admission into the United
States under any law or treaty now existing or hereafter made,
the decision of the appropriate immigration or customs officers,
if adverse to the admission of such alien, shall be final, unless

UNITED STATES v. SING TUCK.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reversed on appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury." The
jurisdiction of the Treasury Department was transferred to the
Department of Commerce and Labor by the act of February 14,
1903, 32 Stat. 825. It was held by the Circuit Court of Appeals that the act of 1894 should not be construed to submit
the right'of a native-born citizen of the United States to return hither to the final determination of executive officers, and
the conclusion was assumed to follow that these cases should
have been tried on their merits. Before us it was argued that
by the construction of the statute the fact of citizenship went
to the jurisdiction of the immigration officers, see Gonzales v.
Williams, 192 U. S. 1, 7; Miller v. Horton, 152 Massachusetts,
540, 548; and therefore that 'the statute did not purport to
apply to one who was a citizen in fact. We are -of opinion
however that the words quoted apply to a decision on the.
question of citizenship, and that, even if it be true that the
statute& could not make that decision final,' the consequence
drawn by the Circuit Court of Appeals does not"follow and is
not correct.
We shall not argue the meaning of the words of the act.
That must be taken to be established. Lem Moon Sing v.
United States, 158 U. S, 538, 546, 547. As to whether or not
the act could make the decision of an executive officer final
upon the fact of citizenship we leave the question where we
find it. The Japanese Immigrant Case, (Yamataya v. Fisher,)
189 U. S. 86, 97; Fok Yung Yo v. United States, 185 U. S. 296,
304, 305. See Chin Bak Kan v. United States, 186 U. S. 193,
200. Whatever may be the law on that point, the decisions
just cited are enough to show that it is too late to contend that
the act of 1894 is void as a whole. But if the act is valid, even
if ineffectual on this single point, then it points out a mode of
procedure which must be followed before there can be a resort
to the courts. In order to act at all the executive officer must
decide upon the question of citizenship. If his jurisdiction is
subject to being upset, still it is necessary that he should proceed if he decides that it exists. An appealis provided by the

OCTOBER TERM, J 43.
Opinion of the Court

statute.

194 U. S.

The first mode of attacking his decision is by taking

that appeal. It the appeal fails it then is time enough to consider whether upon a petition showing reasonable cause there
ought to be a further trial upon habeas corpus.
We perfectly appreciate, while we neither countenance nor
discountenance, the argument drawn from the alleged want of
jurisdiction. But while the consequence of that argument if
sound is that both executive officers and Secretary of Commerce and Labor are acting without authority, it is one of the
necessities of the administration of justice that even fundamental questions should be determined in an orderly way. If
the allegations of a petition for habeas corpus setting up want
of jurisdiction, whether of an executive officer or of an ordinary
court, are true, the petitioner theoretically is entitled to his
liberty at once. Yet a summary interruption of the regular
order of proceedings, by means of the writ, is not always a
matter of right. A familiar illustration is that of a person
imprisoned upon criminal process by a state court under a
state law alleged to be unconstitutional. If the law is unconstitutional the prisoner is wrongfully held. Yet except under
exceptional circumstances the courts of the United States do
not interfere by habeas corpus. The prisoner must in the first
place take his case to the highest court of the State to which he
cango, and after that he generally is left to the remedy by writ
of error if he wishes to bring the case here. Minnesota v.
Brundage, 180 U. S. 499; Baker v. Grice, 169 U. S. 284. In
Gonzales v. Williams, 192 U. S. 1, there was no use in delaying
the issue of the writ until an appeal had been taken, because
in that case there was no dispute about the facts but merely
a question of law. Here the issue, if there is one, is pure
matter of fact, a claim of citizenship under circumstances and
in a form naturally raising a suspicion of fraud.
Considerations similar to those which we have suggested
lead to a further conclusion. Whatever may be the ultimate
rights of a person seeking to enter the country and alleging that
he is a citizen, it is within the power of Congress to provide at

UNITED STATES v. SING TUCK.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

least for a preliminary investigation by an inspector, and for
a detention of the person until he has established his citizenship in some reasonable way. If the person satisfies the inspector, he is allowed to enter the country without further
trial. Now, when these Chinese, having that opportuntiy, saw
fit to refuse it, we think an Additional reason was given for not
allowing a habeas corpus at that stage. The detention during
the time necessary for investigation was not unlawful, even if
all of these parties were citizens of the United States and were
not attempting to upset the inspection machinery by a transparent device. Wong Wing v. United States, 163 U. S. 228, 235.
They were offered a way to prove their alleged citizenship and
to be set at large, which would be sufficient for most people who
had a case and which would' relieve the courts. If they saw
fit to refuse that way, they properly were held down strictly
to their technical rights.
But it is said that if, under any circumstances, the question
of citizenship could be left to the final decision of an executive
officer, the Chinese Regulations made under the statutes by
the Department of Commerce and Labor are such that they do
not allow a citizen due process of law, and the same argument
is urged in favor of the right to decline to take any part in such
proceedings from the outset. The rules objected to require
the officer to prevent communication with the parties other
than by officials under his control, and to have them examined
promptly touching their right to admission. Th examination
is to be apart from the public, in the presence of the government officials and such witnesses only as the examining officer
shall designate. This last is the provision especially stigmatized. It is said that the parties are allowed to produce only
such witnesses as are designated by the officer. But that is a
plain perversion of the meaning of the words, If the witnesses
referred to are not merely witnesses to the examination, if they
are witnesses in the cause, still the provision only excludes such
witnesses, at the discretion of the officer pending the examinanatural
.
precaution in this class
tion of the party concern6d-t

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
BREWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S.

of cases, the reasonableness of which does not need to be explained. It is common in ordinary trials. No right is given to
the officer to exercise any control or choice as to the witnesses
to be heard, and no such choice was attempted in fact. On the
contrary, the parties were told that if they could produce two
witnesses.who knew that they had the right to enter, their
testimony would be taken and carefully considered, and various
other attempts were made to induce the suggestion of any
evidence or help to establish the parties' case, but they stood
mute. The separate examination is another reasonable precaution, and it is required to take place promptly to avoid the
hardship of a long detention. In case of appeal counsel are
permitted to examine the evidence, Rule 7, and it is implied
that new evidence, briefs, affidavits and statements may be
submitted, all of which can be forwarded with the appeal.
Rule 9. The whole scheme is intended to give as fair a chance
to prove a right to enter the country as the necessarily summary character of the proceedings will permit.
We are of opinion that the attempt to disregard and override
the provisions of the statutes and the rules of the department
and to swamp the courts by a resort to them in the first instance
must fail. We may add that, even if it is beyond the power
of Congress to make the decision of the department final upon
the question of citizenship, we agree with the Circuit Court of
Appeals that a petition for habeas corpus ought not to be entertained, unless the court is satisfied that the petitioner can
make out at least a prima facie case. A mere allegation of
citizenship is not enough. But, before the courts can be called
upon, the preliminary sifting process provided by the statutes
must be gone through with. Whether after that a further
trial may be had we do not decide.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
PECKHAM, dissenting.

I am unable to concur in either the foregoing opinion or

UNITED STATES c. SING TUCK.
194 U. S.

BREWER and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

judgment. I have heretofore dissented in several cases involving the exclusion or expulsion of the Chinese, but, although
my views on the questions are unchanged, I do not care to repeat
anything then said. I pass rather to consider the present case
and the declarations of the court. That is, as stated in the
opinion, one of persons claiming to be 'citizens of the United
States denied by an inspector of immigration--a mere ministerial officer-the right to enter the country, and who are now
informed by this court that their application to the courts for
the enforcement of that right must be denied. They are told
that their only remedy is by appeal from one minitterial officer
to another.
The decision is based upon the act of August 18, 1894, 28
Stat. 372, 390, which provides:
"In every case where an alien is excluded from admission
into the United States under any law or treaty now existing or
hereafter made, the decision of the appropriate immigration or
customs officers, if adverse to the admission of such alien, shall
be final, unless reversed on appeal to the Secretary of the
Treasury."
But by its very terms that act applies only to an alien, and
these parties assert that they are not aliens. If not aliens,
certainly that act is inapplicable. So affirms Rule 2, prescribed by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, concerning
the immigration of Chinese persons, which reads: "If the
Chinese person has been born in the United States, neither the
immigration acts nor the Chinese exclusion acts prohibiting
persons of the Chinese race, and especially Chinese laborers,
from coming into the United States apply to such person."
So this court has held at the present term. Gonzales v. Williams, 192 U. S. 1, decided January 4, 1904. In that case it
appeared that Isabella Gonzales, an unmarried woman, coming
from Porto Rico to New York, was prevented from landing and
detained by the immigration commissioner as an alien immigrant. A writ of habeas corpus was issued on her behalf by the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
BREWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S.

New York. Upon a hearing the writ was dismissed and she
remanded to the custody of the commissioner. On appeal to
this court that decision was reversed, and it was said in the
opinion (p. 7):
"If she was not an alien immigrant within the intent and
meaning of the act of Congress entitled 'An act in amendment
to the various acts relative to immigration and the importation
of aliens under contract or agreement to perforn labor,' approved March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1084, c. 551, the commissioner
had no power to detain or deport her, and the final order of the
Circuit Court must be reversed."
There, as here, the applicant had not a)pealed from the
decision of the immigration offidr to the Secretary of the
Treasury; that fact was pleaded in the return to the writ, and
on the argument before us this act of August 18, 1894, was
cited by the government and the argument made that the
remedy was by appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury. I
quote the language of the Solicitor General as reported (p. 4):
"The act of August 18, 1894, 28 Stat. 390, makes'the decision
of the appropriate immigration or customs officer, if adverse
to the admission of an alien, final unless reversed on appeal
to the Secretary of the Treasury. Even if appellant herein
was ultimately entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, she was not
in a position justly to obtain the writ until she had prosecuted
art unavailing appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury, and thus
pursued her remedy in the executive course to the uttermost."
That case did not hold that the applicant was a citizen of the
United States, but only that-being a subject of Porto Rico,
an island ceded fo the United States, and, as adjudged by a
bare majority of this court in conflictirg opinions, not within
the full scope of constitutional protection-she was not an
alien immigrant. Here the petitioners claim 'that they are
citizens by birth, and the decision is that nevertheless'they
cannot be heard in a court to prove the fact which they allege.

There the petition disclosed both a question of law-and one of
fact,'for not until the return to the writ was the question of fact

UNITE)
194 U. S.

STATES v. SING TUCK.

BREWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

eliminated; here on the face of the petition only a. question of
fact is presented for the law applicable had been fully settled
by the decision of this court in United States v. Wong Kim Ark,
169 U. S. 649.
But it is said that, inasmuch as Congress has provided for an
appeal from the immigration officer to the Secretary of the
Treasury, or rather, since the recent act transferring jurisdiction to the Department of Commerce and Labor, to the Secretary of the latter department, the orderly administration of
affairs requires that the remedy by appeal to the Secretary
should be followed. It was not so held in the Gonzales case,
and I do not appreciate why it should Ie deemed necessary in
the case of one claiming to be a citizen and not deemed necessary in respect to one wVho ismerely not an alien immigrant.
We have called American citizenship an "inestimable heritage," Chin Bak Kan v. Uni(ed States, 186 U. S. 193, 200, and
I cannot understand why one who claims it should be denied
the earliest possible hearing in the courts upon the truth of his
claim.
Why should any one who claims the right of citizenship be
denied prompt access to the courts? If it be an "inestimable
heritage," can Congress deprive one of the right to a judicial
determination of its existence, and ought the courts to unnecessarily avoid or postpone an inquiry thereof? If it be said
that the conduct of these petitioners before the inspector was
not such as to justify a belief in the probability of their claim
of citizenship, it is sufficient answer that they assert the claim
and ask a right to be heard. I never supposed that courts
could deny a party a hearing on the ground that they did not
believe it probable that he could establish the claim which he
makes.
The postponement of the right to judicial inquiry until after
the remedy by appeal to the Secretary has been exhausted is
justified by analogy to the rule which restrains this court from
interfering with the orderly administration of criminal law in
the courts of a State until after a final determination by the

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1903.
BREWER and PPCKIIAM, JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S.

highest court of that State. But there is this essential difference: To the highest court of a State a writ of error runs
from this court, and there is, therefore, propriety in waiting until the final decision of the courts of the States, the presumption being always that they will uphold the Constitution
of the United States, and enforce any rights granted by it.
In Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S.241, 251, 252, this court said:
"Does the statute imperatively require the Circuit Court,
by writ of habeas corpus, to wrest the petitioner from the
custody of the state officers in advance of his trial in the state
court? We are of opinion that while the Circuit Court has the
power to do so, and may discharge the accused in advance of
his trial if lie is restrained of his liberty in violation of the
National Constitution, it is not 'bound in every case to exercise
such a power immediately upon application being made for the
writ. We cannot suppose thatCongress intended to compel
those courts, by such means, to draw to themselves, in the first
instance, the control of all criminal prosecutions commenced
in state courts exercising authority within the same territorial
limits, where the accused claims that he is held in custody in
violation of the Constitution of the United States. The injunction to hear the case summarily, and thereupon 'to dispose
of the party as law and justice require,' does not deprive the
court of discretion as to the time and mode in which it will
exert the powers conferred upon it. That discretion should
be exercised in the light of the relations existing, under our
system of government, between the judicial tribunals of the
Union and of the States, and in recognition of the fact that the
public good requires that those relations be not disturbed by
unnecessary conflict between courts equally bound to guard
and protect rights secured by the Constitution. . . . This
court holds that where a person is in custody, under process
from a state court of original jurisdiction, for an alleged offence
against the laws of such State, and it is claimed that he is restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the
United States, the Circuit Court has a discretion, whether it

UNITED STATES v. SING TUCK.
194 U. S.

BREWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.,

.will discharge him, upon habeas corpus, in advance of his trial
in the court in which he is indicted; that discretion, however,
to be subordinated to any special circumstances requiring immediate action. When the state court shall have finally acted
upon the case, the Circuit Court has still a discretion whether,
under all the circumstances then existing, the accused, if convicted, shall be put to his writ of error from the highest court
of the State, or whether it will proceed, by writ of habeas corpus,
summarily to determine whether the petitioner is restrained
of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the United
States."
But here there is no appeal or writ of error from the decision
of the Secretary to this or to any other court, and the remedy
which must be pursued then as now is only that of habeas
corpus. Indeed, in the opinion the court does not give to these
petitioners encouragement to believe that there can be any
judicial examination, even after the decision by the Secretary
against their claim of American citizenship. If a judicial
hearing at any time is not in terms denied, it is, at least, like
a famous case of old, passed to "a convenient season." Meantime the American citizen must abide in the house of detention.
Further, there are special reasons why this prompt judicial
inquiry by the writ of habeas corpus should be sustained. On
July 27, 1903, the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, as authorized by statute, promulgated certain regulations concerning the admission of Chinese persons. Rule 4 named a dozen
ports at which alone such persons should be permitted to enter,
Malone, N. Y., where these petitioners are detained, being
one of the number. Rules 6, 7, 8, 9, 21 and 22 are as follows:
,RuLE 6. Immediately upon the arrival of Chinese persons
at any port mentioned in Rule 4 it shall be the duty of the
officer in charge of the administration of the Chinese exclusion
laws to adopt suitable means to prevent communication with
them by any persons other than officials under his control, to
have said Chinese persons examined promptly, as by law pro-

OC'TOBER TERM, 1903.
BREWEn and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S.

vided, touching their right to admission and to permit those
proving such right to land.
"RULE 7. The examination prescribed in Rule 6 should be
separate and apart from the public, in the presence of government officials and such witness or witnesses only as the examining officer shall designate, and, if, upon the conclusion
thereof, the Chinese applicant for admission is adjudged to be
inadmissible, he should be advised of his right of appeal, and
his counsel should be permitted, after duly filing notice of
appeal, to examine, but not to make copies of, the evidence
upon which the excluding decision is based.
"RULE 8. Every Chinese person refused admission under the
provisions of the exclusion laws by the decision of the officer in
charge at the port of entry must, if he shall elect to take an
appeal to the Secretary, give written notice thereof to said
officer within two days after such decision is rendered.
"RULE 9. Notice of appeal provided for in Rule 8 shall act
as a stay upon the disposal of the Chinese person whose case is
thereby affected until a final decision is rendered by the Secretary; and within three days after the filing of such notice, unless
further delay is required to investigate 4nd report upon new
evidence, the complete record of the case, together with such
briefs, affidavits and stateinents as are to be considered in
connection therewith, shall be forwarded to the Commissioner
General of Immigration by the officer in charge at the port of
arrival, accompanied by his views thereon in writing; but on
such appeal no evidence will be considered that has not been
made the subject of investigation and report by the said officer
in charge."
"RULE 21. The burden of proof in all cases rests upon Chinese persons (laiming the right of admission to, or residence
within, the United States, to establish such right affirmatively
and satisfactorily to the appropriate government officers, and
in no case in which the law prescribes the nature of the evidence
to establish such right shall other evidence be accepted in lieu
thereof, and in every doubtful case the benefit of the doubt

UNITED STATES v. SING TUCK.
194 U. S.

]imtwom and PPCR.1XAM, JJ., dissenting.

shall be given by administrative officers to the tnited States
government.
"RULE 22. No authenticated copy of a judicial finding that
a Chinese person was born in the United States shall be ac-cepted as conclusive in favor of the person presenting it, unless
he be completely identified as the person to whom such authenticated copy purports to relate."
By. Rule 6 it is the duty of the inspector to prevent any
communication between the immigrant and any person other
than his own officials. In other words, no communication with
counsel or with friends is permitted. By'ltule 7 the examina-.
tion is to be private, in the presence only'of government officials
and such witnesses as the exmiining officer shall desigliote
The most notorious outlaw in the land, when ch'arged by be
United States with crime, is,by cons ii utional enactment,
(.Art. 6, Amendments U. S. Constitution,) given compulsory
process for obtaining witnesses in his favor and the assistance of
counsel for his defence, b th,, Chinaman -.l-dtough by birth
a citizen of the United States--in thus denied counsel aod the
right of obtaining witnesses. After he has been adjudged inadmissible then, and then for the first time, is lie permitted to
have counsel and advised of his right of appeal, and such couinsel, after filing notice of appeal, is permitled to examine but
not make copies of the testimony upon which the excluding
order is based. By Rule 8, if he desires to appeal, he must
give written notice thereof within two days after the decision.
By Rule 9, within three days after the filing of notice a coinplete record -of the case is transmitted to the Commissioner
General of Immigration, and on such appeal no evidence will
be considered that has not been made the subject of investigation and report by the inspector. Can anything be more harsh
and arbitrary? Coming into a port of the Vnited States, as
these petitioners did into the port of Malone, placed as they
were in a house of detention, shut off from communication with
friends and counsel, examined before ain inspector with no one
to advise or counsel, only such witnesses pr('seit as the inVol. cXCIV-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
BREWER and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S.

spector may designate, and upon an adverse decision compelled
to give notice of appeal within two days, within three days the
transcript forwarded to the Commissioner General, and nothing
to be considered by him except the testimony obtained in this
Star Chamber proceeding. This is called due process of law
to protect the rights of an American citizen, and sufficient to
prevent inquiry in the courts.
But is is said that the applicants did not prove before the immigration officer that they were citizens, that some simply alleged the fact, while others said nothing, that they were told that
if they would give the names of two witnesses their testimony
would be taken and considered. But what provision of law is
there for compelling the attendance of witnesses before such
immigration officer or for taking depositions, and of what avail
would be an ex parte inquiry of such witnesses? Must an
American citizen, seeking to return to this his native land, be
compelled to bring with him two witnesses to prove the place
of his birth or else be denied his right to return, and all opportunity of establishing his citizenship in the courts of his country? No such rule is enforced against an American citizen of
Anglo-Saxon descent, and if this be, as claimed, a government
of laws and not of men, I do not think it should be enforced
against American citizens of Chinese descent.
Again, by Rule 21, the burden of proof is cast upon the applicant, no other evidence is to be accepted except that which
the law prescribes, and in every doubtful case the benefit of
the doubt is to be given to the government. And by Rule 22
a judicial finding of citizenship is not to be accepted as conclusive unless the party presenting it is "completely identified."
I showed in my dissenting opinion in Fong Yue Ting v. United
States, 149 U. S. 698, 740, that expulsion was punishment.
That proposition was not denied by the majority of the court
when applied to a citizen but only as applied to aliens (p. 709).
If expulsion from the country is punishment for crime when
applied to a citizen, can it be that the rule which requires the
government to assume the burden of proof and which clothes

UNITED STATES c. SING TUCK.
194 U. S.

BREWER

and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

the accused with the presumption of innocence can be changed
by casting upon the individual the burden of showing that he
is one not liable to such punishment? Can it be that the
benefit of a doubt which attaches to all other accused persons
is taken away from one simply because he is a Chinaman? And
can it be that when one produces a judicial finding of citizenship such finding can be brushed one side unless the identity
of the individual in whose behalf the finding was made is established beyond doubt?
I cast no reflections upon the immigration officer in the
present case. I am simply challenging a system and provisions
which place within the arbitrary power of an individual the
denial of the right of an American citizen to free entrance into
this country, and put such denial outside the scope of judicial
inquiry. It may be true that a ministerial officer, in a secret
and private investigation, may strive to ascertain the truth
and to do justice, but unless we blind our eyes to the history
of the long struggle in the mother country to secure protection
to the liberty of the citizen, we must realize that a public investigation before a judicial tribunal, with the assistance of
counsel and the privilege of cross-examination, is the best, if
not the only, way to secure that result.
In my judgment we are making a curious judicial history.
In Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369, decided in 1886,
we said:
"The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution is not
confined to the protection of citizens. It says: 'Nor shall
any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.' These provisions are universal in their application to all persons within
the territorial jurisdiction, without regard to any differences
of race, of color or of nationality; and the equal protection of
the laws is a pledge of. the protection of equal laws."
In United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649, decided
in 1898, the petitioner, a Chinese person born in the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
BuiiwEit and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

19A if. S.

States, returning from China, was refused permission to tiLnd,
and was restrained of his liberty by the collector, the officer
then charged with that duty. Without making any appeal
from the decision of such local officer, although the law as to
appeal to the Secretary was then the same as now, he sued out
a writ of habeas corpus from.the District Court of thi United
States, which court, after hearing, discharged him on the
ground that he was born within the United States and therefore a citizen thereof. On appeal to this court that decision
was affirmed. No one connec-ted with the case doubted that
the immigration and exclusion laws had no application to him
if he were a citizen or questioned his right'to appeal in the
first instance to the codrts -for his discharge from the illegal
restraint.
In Chin Bak Kan v. United States, supra, decided in 1902,
it appeared that Chin Bak Kan was brought before a commissioner of the United States charged with wrongfully coming in
and remaining within the United States. After a hearing lie
was adjudged guilty of the charge by the commissioner and
ordered removed to China. An appeal was taken to the
District Court of the United States but the appeal was dismissed, and thereupon the case was brought here. The jurisdiction of the comnuissionet was challenged, and in disposing
of that the court said (p. 200):
"A United States commissioner is a quasi judicial officer,
and in these hearings he acts judicially. Moreover, this case
wa taken by appeal from the commissioner to the judge of the
District Court, and his decision was affirmed, so that there
was an adjudication by a United States judge in the constiLa
tional sense as well as by the commissioner acting as a judge
in the sense of the ,tatute."
In the Japa., e )nim igrant Case, 189 U. F. 86, 100, (lecided
in 1903, this court, while sustaining the action of the ministerial
officers, said:
"But this court has never held, nor must we now be unc-,
stood as holding, that administrative officers, when exeeotl ;W

UNITED STATES v. SING TUCK.
194 U. S.

Bniewrin and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

the provisions of a statute involving the liberty of persons, may
disregard the fundamental principles that inhere in 'due process of law' as understood at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution. One of these principles is that no person shall
be deprived of his liberty without opportunity, at some time,
to be heard, before such officers, in respect of the matters upon
which that liberty depends-not necessarily an opportunity
.upon a regular set occasion, and according to the forms of
judicial procedure, but one that will secure the prompt,
vigorous action contemplated by Congress, and at the same
time be appropriate to the nature of the case upon which such
officers are required to act. Therefore, it is not competent for
the Secretary of the Treasury or any executive officer, at any
time within the year limited by the statute, arbitrarily to cause
an alien, who has entered the country, and has become subject
in all respects to its jurisdiction, and a part of its population,
although alleged to be illegally here, to be taken into custody
and deported without giving him all opportunity to be heard
upon the questions involving his right to be and remain in. the
United States. No such arbitrary power can exist where the
principles involved in due process of law are recognized."
This was in the case of one confessedly an alien.
Now the courts hold that parties claiming to be citizens can
have that claim determined adversely by a mere ministerial
officer, arid be denied the right of immediate 'appeal to the
courts for a judicial inquiry and determination thereof. I
cannot believe that the courts of this republic are so burdened
with controversies about property that they cannot take time
to determine the right of personal liberty by one claiming to
be a citizen.
Further, even if it should be proved that these petitioners
are not citizens of the United States but simply Chinese laborers
seeking entrance into this country, it may not be amiss to note
the signiiicance of the act of April 29, 1902, 32 Stat. 176,
reiinaeting and continuing the prior laws respecting the exclusion of the Chinese, "so far as the same are not inconsistent

OCTOBER TERM, 1903,
194 U. S.

Syllabus.

with treaty obligations," taken in connection with this provision in article 4 of the treaty with China, proclaimed December 8, 1894, "that Chinese laborers or Chinese of any other
class, either permanently or temporarily residing in the Unitdd
States, shall have for the protection of their persons and property all rights that are given by the laws of the United States
to citizens of the most favored nation, excepting the right to
become naturalized citizens." I am not astonished at the
report current in the papers that China has declined to continue
this treaty for another term of ten years.
Finally, let me say that the time has been when many young
men from China came to our educational institutions to pursue
their studies, when her commerce sought our shores, and her
people came to build our railroads, and when China looked upon
this country as her best friend. If all this be reversed and the
most populous nation on earth becomes the great antagonist of
this republic, the careful student of history will recall the words
of Scripture, "they have sown the wind, and they shall reap
the whirlwind," and for cause of such antagonism need look
no further than the treatment accorded during the last twenty
years by this country to the people of that nation.
I am authorized to say that MR.JUSTICE
in this dissent.

PECKHAM

concurs

GIBSONv. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 195.

Argued April 8,1904.-Decided April 25, 1904.

Under § 1444, Rev. Stat., and § 11 of the Navy Personnel Act of March 3,
1899, a captain in the navy who is retired as a rear admiral receives
three-fourths of the pay of rear admirals in the nine lower numbers of
the eighteen rear admirals provided for by the act and not three-fourths of
the pay of those in the nine higher numbers.

