OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

justify its action. Such seems to have been the purpose of
most, if not all, of the testimony offered by the petitioner in
this case. As his counsel stated during the progress of the
examination before the commissioner: "We hold that we have,
an absolute right in a proper proceeding to expose what took
place before the grand jury. We don't do it at all in order to
make a disclosure of what transpired before a secret body.
We do propose to show what transpired before that grand jury
so as to show that there was not any evidence upon which thai
body could have found an indictment, a legal, valid, lawful
indictment, against George W. Beavers. We have no other
purpose in calling this witness or any olher witnegs who ,.ppeared before the grand jury." But the sufliciericy of an
indictment as evidence of probable cause in removal prooeedings cannot be impeached (if impeachable at all) in any such
manner. Neither can a defendant in this way ascertain what
testimony the government may have against him and thus
prepare the way for his defence. There are no other questions
that seem to us to require notice.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment is
AJirmed.

HOUGHTON v. PAYNE.
APPEAL

FROM THE COURT

OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 372. Argued March 10, 1904.-Decided April 11, 1904.

Contemporaneous construction is a rule of interpretation but it is not an
absolute one and does not preclude an inquiry by the courts as to the
original correctness of such construction. A custom of a department of
the Government, however long continued by successive officers, must
yield to the positive language of the statute.
Periodical publications as defined in the Post Office bill of March 3, 1879,
do not include books complete in themselves and which have no connection with each other, simply because they are serially issued at stated
intervals more than four times a year, bound in paper, bear dates of
issue and numbered consecutively; and the Postmaster General can ex-

HOUGHTON vi.PAYNE
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

elude them from second class mail notwithstanding they have been heretofore transmitted as such by his predecessors in office.
The terms "periodical " and " periodical publication," as used in the act of
March 3, 1879, are used in their obvious and natural sense, and denote
the well-recognized and generally understood class of publications, commonly called by the name of " periodical."
The provisions of § 14, act of March 3, 1879, are not descriptive of the kind
of publication which is to be admitted to the class of periodical publications provided for by §§ 7 and 10 of said act, but are express limitations
added to the description in those sections.
The provisions of § 14 are not to be taken to determine what is a periodical
publication, but to ascertain whether, being such a publication as is contemplated by § 10, it also answers the additional conditions there imposed.
The fact that publishers may have made contracts for the future delivery
of their publications at prices founded on confidence in the continuance
of the certificate of admission to the mails at second class rates, issued
under a former administration of the Post Office Department, does not
entitle them to an injunction restraining the present administration from
ascertaining the true character of the publication and charging the legal
rate accordingly.

THis was a bill in equity originally filed in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia by the firm of Houghton,
Mifflin & Co., against the Postmaster General, praying that a
certain publication, known as the Riverside Literature Series,
be entered and transmitted through the mails as second class
mail matter, and for an injunction to restrain the cancellation
of a certain certificate of entry, previously issued, allowing
such transmission.
The answer denied that the Riverside Literature Series constituted a periodical within the meaning and intent of the statute; that, although complying with the external characteristics
and conditions of second class mail matter, nevertheless, internally and in substance, they have not the characteristics
of second class matter, but have the peculiarities of books,
and are in fact books.
The case was heard upon the pleadings and an exhibit of
the series, and a decree rendered in accordance with theprayer of the bill. 31 Wash. L. R. 178. An appeal was taken
to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, which
reversed the decree and dismissed the bill. 31 Wash. L. R. 390.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellants.

194 U.

S.

Mr. William S. Hall and AIr. Holmes Conrad for.appellants,
in this case and in No. 373:
As to discretion of Postmaster General, see Payne v. Pub.
Co., 20 App. D. C. 581; R. S. §§ 161, 406, 3909, 3932, 3936;
H. R. bill 4910, to amend § 14 of the act of March 3, 1879,
and remarks of Mr. Cannon thereon, Cong. Rec. Feb. 2, 1888,
vol. 19, 911; April 24, 1894, amendment proposed to Post
Office bill, Cong. Rec. vol. 26, part 5, 4050; January 7, 1897,
H. R. bill 4566, the "Loud Bill" to amend postal laws, Sen.
Rep. 54 Cong. 2d sess. No. 1517. Not until after the defeat
of the Loud Bill was regulation § 276 amended.
The bill does not seek to control the judgment of the Postmaster General in any matter calling for the exercise of jutdgment. For statutes prior to 1879 regulating nmail matter of
this nature, see Statute of 1845, ch. 43, § 16; of 1852, § 2; of
1863, ch. 71, § 20; of 1872; ch. 335, re6nacted Rev. Stat.
§ 3875 et seq. As to proper rule of construction, see Platt v.
Union Pacific, 99 U. S. 58. The broad and beneficent purpose
of Congress expressed in the act of March 3, 1879, is confirmed
and accentuated by the act of July 16, 1894, 28 Stat. 104.
As to what periodical publications were supposed to include
in 1879, see 15 Op. Atty. Geh. 346. The construction contended for would not result in free admission of foreign novels
in view of the Tariff Acts of 1890, ch. 1244, par. 657; 1894,
ch. 349, par. 562. A long established construction of an executive department should not be disregarded where contracts
have been made and liabilities incurred on the faith thereof.
Where the language of an act is so clear as not to be open to
construction, its construction cannot be changed by long continued practice of the department; but if there is doubt as to
the meaning of the act, then such a practice would be persuasive, if not controlling. United States v. Graham, 110 U. S.
219; United States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169; United States v. Finnell, 185 U. S. 236, 244; United States v. Alabama Railway
Co., 142 U. S. 621; Del Monte v. Last Chance, 171 U. S. 55,
62.

HOUGHTON v. PAYNV,.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

The object of the Postmaster General can only be accom.plished by an amendment of the statute. Morrill v. Jones,
106 U. S. 466. Courts will not intervene in cases that are
pending in a Department. Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 86;
Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473, 477; Carrick v. Lamar, 116
U. S. 423, 426; Moore v. Robins, 96 U. S. 530, 535; Sandford
v. Sandford, 139 U. S. 642, 647. A legal error by the Postmaster General does not bind the courts. School of Healing
v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S..94) 109.
If it is held that these publications do come within the
statute, the question is wholly within the control of the Postmaster Ceneral and is riot subject to review by the courts.
Noble v. Union River L. R. R., 147 U. S. 165, 170; United
States v. Wright, 11 Wall. 648.
Mr. Tracy L. Jeffords, with whom Mr. Charles F. Moody
and Mr. E. Van Buren Getty were on the brief, for appellants
in No. 481:
Congress has sole and exclusive power over the entire postal
system of the United States. Jackson v. United States, 96
U. S. 727; Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466; Campbell v. United
States, 107 U. S. 407.
These publications are second class mail matter and are entitled to be so classified and carried.
Former Postmaster Generals have so construed the statute
of 1879 and such construction was proper, and the practice
should not be disturbed. Brown v. United States, 113 U. S.
568; United States v. Richardson, 28 Fed. Rep. 61; Packardv.
Richardson, 17 Massachusetts, 144; The Queen v. Cutbush, 2
Q B. 379; United States v. Philbrick, 128 U. S. 52; Noble v.
Union River Logging R. Co., 147 U. S. 165; The Laura, 114
U. S. 411; United States v. Hill, 120 U. S. 169.
The cancellation of appellants' second class mail certificates
deprives them of their property without due process of law.
The right to use the mail is a property right.. Hoover v.
McChesney, 81 Fed. Rep. 472.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellee.

194 U. S.

Mr. John 0. Johnson and Al. Hei4ry 11. Glassie, special
assistants to the Attorney General, for appellee ini this ease
and in Nos. 373 and 481:
In this case the court is not dealing with a burden upon the
citizen but with a governmental grant of privilege and )enefit,
and doubt, if any, must be resolved in favor of the Government. Swan & Finch Co. v. United States, 190 U. S. 143,
146; Hannibal &c. R. R. Co. v. Packet Co., 125 U. S. 260,
271.
The determination by the Postmaster General that these
publications are not periodicals is the determination of a
matter of fact committed to his juris(liction; such finding is
therefore final and conclusive, this notwithstanding School of
Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94; Payne v. Nat. Ry. Pub.
Co., 20 App. D. C. 581.
As to how far mandamus or injunction can be exercised
over or against an executive officer, see Marbury v. Madison,
1 Cranch, 137; Kendall v. Stokes, 3 How. 87; New Orleans v.
Paine, 147 U. S. 261, 264; Noble v. Union River L. Co., 147
U. S. 165, showing that they will not issue for error; Riverside
Oil Co. v. Hitchcock,, 190 U. S. 316, 325; Gaines v. Thompson,
7 Wall. 347; Dunlap v. Black, 128 U. S. 40, 45; Litchfield v.
Richards, 9 Wall. 575, 577; In re Isaac L. Rice, 155 U. S. 396,
403.
Whatever the power of the court may be as to whether an
executive officer is acting-within his jurisdiction, his ascertainment of questions of fact is* conclusive. Gardner v.
Bonestell, 180 U. S. 362, 370; Japanese Emigrant Case, 189
U. S. 86, 98; Johnson v. Drew, 171 U. S. 93, 99; Burfenning
v. Railway Co., 163 U. S. 321; Smelting Co. v. Kent, 104 U. S.
636, 645.
It is a familiar principle that distinguishes refusing to set
aside a finding because one does not think it was reasonable
and setting a finding aside because no reasonable peison could
have found it. Bridge v. Directors &c., L. R. 7 Eng. & Ir.
App. 221, 233. See also Railway Co. v. Wright, L. R. 11 App.

HOUGHTON v. PAYNE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Cas. 152; B. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Griffith, 159 U. S. 603; Morande
v. Texas & Pacific, 184 U. S. 173, 186.
There is no question here of denying any one the use of the
mails; it is only a question of rate charged for such use.
The Postmaster General has the power and it is his duty to
charge the legal rate on all matter transmitted through the
mail and neither he nor the court is bound by the determination made by former Postmasters General in this respect.
United States v. McDonald, 7 Pet. 114; Wisconsin Central v.
United States, 164 U. S. 190; United States v. Harmon, 147 U. S.
268. And see Fairbank v. United States, 184 U. S. 284, 308.
There was no want of power, and Congress has never sanctioned the suggestion of any such want.
Debates in Congress are not appropriate sources of information from which'to discover the meaning of the language of a
statute. United States v. Union Pacific, 91 U. S. 72, 79;
Aldridge v. Williams, 3 How. 9, 24; Mitchell v. Grant &c. Co.,'
2 Story, 648, 653; Queen v: Hertford College, 3 Q. B. D. 693, 707;
United States v. Freight Association, 166 U. S. 293, 318.
The courts cannot undo judicially what the Postmaster
General has already (lone administratively. United States v.
Wright, 11 Wall. 648.
The fact that the matter was admitted at one time as second
class matter does not estop the United States. The Floyd
Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666; Wisconsin Central v. United States,
164 U. S.190, 210; United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 727,
735; Whiteside v. United States, 93 U. S. 247, 257; Hawkins v.
United States, 96 U. S. 689.
MR.JUSTIMCE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This case depends upon the construction of the following
sections of the Post Office appropriation bill of March 3, 1879,
20 Stat. 355, 358:
"Sac. 7. That mailable matter shall be divided into four
classes:

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

"First. Written matter;
"Second. Periodical publications;
"Third. Miscellaneous printed matter;
"Fourth. Merchandise."
Matter of the second class is thus described:
"SEC. 10. That mailable matter of the second class shall
embrace all newspapers and other periodical publications which
are issued at stated intervals, and as frequently as four times
a year, and are within the conditions named in section twelve
and fourteen.
"SEc. 11. Publications of the second class except as provided in section twenty-five, when sent by the publisher
thereof, and from the office of publication, including sample
copies, or when sent from a news agency to actual subscribers
thereto, or to other news agents, shall be entitled to transmission through the mails at two cents a pound or fraction
thereof, such postage to be prepaid, as now provided by law.
"SEC. 12. That, matter of the second class may be examined
at the office of mailing, and if found to contain matter which
is subject to a higher rate of postage, such matter shall be
charged with postage at the rate to which the inclosed matter
is subject: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be
so construed as to prohibit the insertion in periodicals of advertisements attached permanently to the same."
"SEC. 14. That the conditions upon which a publication
shall be admitted to the second class are as follows:
"First. It must regularly be issued at stated intervals, as
frequently as four times a year, and bear a date of issue, and
be numbered consecutively.
"Second. It must be issued from a known office of publication.
"Third. It must be formed of printed paper sheets, without
board, cloth, leather or other substantial binding, such as distinguish printed books for Dreservation from periodical publications.
"Foulrth. It must be originated and published for the dissemination of information of a public character, or devoted to

HOUGHTON v. PAYNE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

literature, the sciences, arl-, or some special industry, and
having a legiltimate list of subscribers: Provided, however, That
nothing herein containe(l shall be so construed as to admit to
the second class rate regular publications, designed prinai'ily
for a dvertising purposes, or for free circulation, or for circulation at nomiinal rates."
And by the act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 385, it was provided that second class matter (saving that excepted in section 25) shall, on and after June 1, 1885, be entitled to transmission through the mails at one cent a pound or fraction
thereof.
Section 17 declares that mail matter of the third class shall
embrace books, transient newspapers and periodicals, circulars, etc., and postage shall be paid at the rate of one cent
for each two ounces or fractional part thereof,
Are the publications of the Riverside Literature Series
periodicals, and therefore, belonging to the second class of
mail matter, and entitled to transmission at the rate of one
cent a pound; or books, as designated in the third class, and
subject to postage at the rate of one cent for each two ounces?
The publications are small books, 41 by 7 inches, in paper
covers, an(l are issued from the oflicy of publication either
monthly or quarterly, and numbered consecutively. Each
number contains a single novel or story, or a collection of short
stories or poems by the same author, and most, if not all of
them, are reprints of standard works by Thackeray, Whittier,
Lowell, Emerson, Irving, or other well known writers, and
from a literary point of view are of a high class. Each number
is complete in itself and entirely disconnected with every other
number. Upon the front page of the cover appears, at the
top,- the words "Issued Monthly," followed by the number
of the serial and the (late of issue. Below, the words "Riverside Literature Series" are prominently displayed, and in the
center of the page appears the name of the book. Each
number complies with the conditions of section 14, upon which
the publication may be admitted to the second class, namely,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

it is regularly issued at stated intervals, at least quarterly, and
bears a date of issue and is consecutively, numbered. It is
issued from a known office of publication; is formed of printed
paper sheets, without board, cloth or leather, or othervsubstantial binding, and is published for the dissemination of
information of a public character; or devoted to literature, etc.
The bill also avers that the series has a legitimate list of subscribers, but does not aver that they were reading subscribers
in the ordinary sense of the term. This distinction, however,
is not pressed by the Government. If the fact be that this
series becomes a periodical by a compliance with the conditions
of section 14, under which it is entitled to be transmitted as
second class mail matter, we shall be compelled to say that the
decree of the court below was wrong.
But while section 14 lays down certain conditions requisite
to the admission of a'l)ublication as to mail matter of the
second class, it 'does not define a periodical, or declare that
upon compliance with these conditions the publication shall
be deemed such. In other words, it defines certain requisites
of a periodical, but does not declare that they shall be the only
requisites. Under section 10 the publication must be a
"p~riodical publication," which means, we think, that it shall
not only have the feature of periodicity, but that it shall be
a periodical in the Ordinary meaning of the term. A periodical
is defined by Webster as "a magazine or other publication
which appears at stated or regular intervals," and by the
Century Dictionary as"a publication issued at regular intervals
in successive numbers oi" parts, each of which (properly) contains matter on a variety of topics and no, one of which is contemplated as forming a book of itself." By section 10 newspapers.are included Within the class of periodical publications,
although they are not so regarded in common speech. By
far the largest class of periodicals are magazines, which are
defined by Webster as "pamphlets published periodically,
containing miscellaneous papers or compositions." A few
other nondescript publications, such as railway guides, ap-

HOUGHTON v. PAYNE.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pearing at stated intervals, have been treated as periodicals
and entitled to the privileges of second class mail matter.
Payne v. Railway Pub. Co., 20 D. C. App. 581. Publications
other than newspapers and .lprilicals are treated as miscellaneous printed matter falling within the third class.
While it may be difficult to draw an exact line of demarkation between periodicals and books, within which latter class
the Riverside Literature Series falls, if not a periodical, it is
usually; though not always, easy to determine within which
category it,
falls, if the character of a particular publication be
put in issue.
A pcriodical, as ordinarily understood, is a publication appearing at stated intervals, each number of which contains a
variety of original articles by different authors, devoted, either
to general literature of some special branch of learning or to a
special class of subjects.. Ordinarily each number is incomplete in itself, and indicates a relation with prior or subsequent
numbers of the same series. It implies a continuity of literary
character, a connection between the different numbers of the
series in the nature of the articles appearing in them, whether.
they be successive chapters of the same story or novel or essays
upon subjects pertaining to general literature. If, for instance, one number were devoted to law, another to medicine,
anotier to religion, another to music, another to painting, etc.,
the publication could not be considered as a periodical, as
ther~e is no connection between the subjects and no literary
continuity. It could scarcely be supposed that ordinary
readers would subscribe to a publication devoted to sueb
extensive range of subjects.
A book is readily distinguishable from a p,
.al, not only
because it usually has a more substantial 'nnding, (although
this is by no means essential,) but in the fact that it ordinarily
contains a story, essay or poem, or a collection of such, by the
same author, although even this is by no means universal, as
books frequently contain articles'by different authors. B3ooks
are not often issued periodically; and, if so, their periodicity
vo.. cxciv--7

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

is not an element of their character. The reason why books
of the Riverside Literature Series are issued periodically is too
palpable to require comment or explanation. It is sufficient to
observe that, in our opinion, the fact that a publication is
issued at stated intervals, under a collective name, does not
necessarily make it a periodical. Were it not for the fact that
they are so issued in consecutive numbers, no one would
imagine for a moment that these publications were periodicals
and not books. While this fact may be entitled
to weight in
determining the character of the publication, it is by no means
conclusive, when all their other characteristics are those of
books rather than those of magazines.
The fact that these publications are not bound when issued
or intended for preservation, is immaterial, since in France and
most of the Continental countries nearly all books, even of the
most serious and permanent character, are usually issued in
paper covers, thus leaving each purchaser to determine for
hiniself whether they are worth a binding of more substantial
character and preservation in his library. . It is true that in
this subdivision of section 14 it is said that a periodical must
be without such substantial binding as to distinguish printed
books for preservation from periodical publications, but it is
by no means to be inferred from this that to constitute a book
the publication must have a substantial binding.
Great stress is laid by counsel upon the original interpretation of the term "periodical," as applied to these books, which
it is said was continued without change under different administrations and by several successive Postmasters General,
and from 1879, the date of the passage of the act, until 1902,
when the certificates granted by the former Postmasters General were revoked by the defendant and a different classification made of the publications now in issue, that the attention
of Congress was repeatedlly called to the evils and to the large
expense incurred by the Government by the admission of
publications of this description to mail matter of the second
class; that Congress seriously considered 'these representations,

HOUGHTON r. PAYNE.
194 U. S.

99

Opinion of the Court.

and committees made voluminous report thereon, yet Congress
persistently refused to change by legislation the ruling of the
Postmasters General in that regard.
We had occasion to consider this subject at length in the
case of United States v. Alabama R. R. Co., 142 U. S. 615, 621,
in which we held that this court would look with disfavor
upon a change whereby parties who have contracted with the
Government on the faith of a former construction might be
injured; especially when, it is attempted to make the change
retroactive, and to require from a contractor a return of
moneys pid to him under the former construction. This case
is not open to the same objections. No contract with the
Government is set up whereby the latter agreed to carry these
publications as second class mail matter. Much less is any
repayment demanded of money paid by the Government under
the prior construction. The action of the Government consists merely in the revocation of a certificate or license admitting these publications as mail matter of the second class.
No vested right having been created by such certificate, no
contract can be said to be impaired by its revocation. Salt
Co. v. East Saginaw, 13 Wall. 373; Grand Lodge v. New Orleans,
166 U. S. 143, 147. It was said, in that case, that the construction is one which, though inconsistent with the literalism
of the act, certainly consorted with the equities of the case.
Whereas in the case under consideration, if we are to believe
the statements of counsel, which are not denied, the carriage
of these publications as second class mail matter entails annually an enormous loss upon the Government and constitutes
an odious discrimination between publishers of books and
publishers of the so-called periodicals.
But in addition to these considerations it is well settled that
it is only where the language of the statuto is ambiguous and
susceptible of two reasonable interpretations that weight is
given to the doctrine of contemporaneous construction. United
States v. Graham, 110 U.

U. S. 236.

.

219; United States v. Finnell, 185

Contemporaneous construction is a rule of inter-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1903.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and The CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting. 194 U. S.

pretation, but it is not an absolute one. It does not preclude
an inquiry by the courts as to the original correctness of such
construction. A custom of the department, however long
continued by successive officers, must yield to the positive
language of the statute. As was said in the Graham case
(p. 221), "if there were ambiguity or doubt, then such a practice, begun so early and continued so long, would be in the
highest degree persuasive, if not absolutely controlling, in its
effect. But with the language clear and precise and with its
meaning evident there is no room for construction and consequently no need of anything to give it aid. The cases to this
effect are numerous. Edwards' Lessee v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206;
United States v. Temple, 105 U. S. 97; Swilt Co. v. United States,
105 U. S. 691; Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 526," While it

might well happen that by reason of the relative unimportance
of the question when originally raised a too liberal construction
might have been given to the word periodical, we cannot think
that if this question had been raised for the first time after
second class mail matter had obtained its present proportions,
a like construction would have been given. Some consideration in connection with the revocation of these certificates may
properly be accorded to the great expense occasioned by this
interpretation, and the discrimination in favor of certain publishers and against others, to which allusion has already been
Tnade.. We regard publications of the Riverside Literature
Series as too clearly within the denomination of books to
justify'us in approving a classification of them as periodicals,

notwithstanding the length of time such classification obtained, and we are therefore of opinion that the judgment of
the Court of Appeals was correct, and it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN (with whom concurred the
JUSTICE) dissenting.

CHIEF

The Chief Justice and myself are unable to concur in the
opinion of the court.

BOUGHTON v. PAYNE.
194 U. S.

MR.JUSTICE HARLAN

and The CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

It was admitted at the bar that for more than sixteen years
plior to May 5, 1902, the Post Office Department had acted
upon the identical construction of the statute for which the
appellants contend. During that period many different Postmasters General asked Congress to amend the statute so as to
exclude from the mails, as second class matter, such publications as those issued by the appellant, and which, under the
present ruling of the Department, are declared not to belong
to that class of mailable matter. Again and again Congress
refused to so amend the statute, although earnestly urged by
the Department to do so.
Representative Cannon, now Speaker of the House of Representatives, in a speech in opposition to the proposed change
of the statute, explained the reasons that induced Congress to
pass the act of March 3, 1879, c. 180, Rev. Stat. Supp. 454.

He said: "Before speaking on the merits of this bill, I wish to
say to the gentleman from Georgia that, according to my
recollection, by legislation advisedly had, prior to 1879,' while
I was a member of the Committee on the Post Office and Post
Roads, this class of literature wAs allowed to pass through the
mails, the policy of that legislation being to encourage the
dissemination of sound and desirable reading matter among
the masses of the people of the country at cheap rates, both as
to the cost of the books themselves and as to the postage. The
question was discussed, unless my memory greatly misleads
me, and the legislation was advisedly had. Under this legislation the best classes of literature, for instance, the Waverley
Novels, Dickens's works, and the new translation of the Bible,
have been sent by publishing houses unbound, stitched, so that
they could be sold to the people at ten cents a volume. As a
consequence of this you may now find in the homes of our
farmers and laboring men throughout the length and breadth
of the country in this cheap form, issued at ten cents per.
volume, a class of literature to which, prior to the adoption of
this policy, some people in very good circumstances could
scarcely have access." Cong. Rec. vol. 19, p. 911.

OCTO HER TERM, 1903.
M11. JUSTICE HARLAN and The CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting. 194 U. S.

The result is that after the Department had for sixteen years
construed the statute to mean what the appellants say it
plainly means, and after Congress had uniformly rfused, upon
full investigation, to comply with the requests of Postmasters
General to so amend the statute that it could be interpreted
as the Government now insists it should always have been
interpreted, the Post Office Department ruled, on May 5, 1902,
that the appellants' publications, known as the "Rivrside
Literature Series," could not go through the mails as second
class matter. This ruling was made notwithstanding a Post
Office official, having power to act in the premises, had issued
to the appellants a certificate declaring that the "Riverside
Literature Series." had been determined by the Third Assistant
Postmaster General to be a publication entitled to admission
into the mails'as second class matter.
Thus, by a mere order of the Department that has been
accomplished which different Postmasters General had held
could not be accomplished otherwise than by a change in the
language of the statute itself, which change, as we have said,
Congress deliberately refused to make after hearing all parties
concerned and after extendedldebate in each House.
It has long been the established doctrine of this court that
the practice of an Executive Department through a series of
years should not be overthrown, unless such practice was
obviously and clearly forbidden by the language of the statute
under which it proceeded. In United States v. Finnell, 185
U. S. 236, 244, which case, related to certain fees claimed by
a clerk of a court of the United States, this court said: "It thus
appears that the Government has for many years construed
tha statute of 1887 as meaning what we have said it may fairly
be interpreted to mean, and has settled and closed the accounts
of lerks upon the basis of such construction. If 'the construetiort thus acted upon by accounting officers for so many years
shoi'ld be overthrown, we apprehend that much confusion
mightk arise: Of course, if the departmental construction of
the statute in question were obviously or clearly wrong, it

HOUGHTON v. PAYNE.
194 U. S. MR. Jus'rIcn HARLAN and The CHIEF JusTice, dissenting.

would be the duty of the court to so adjudge. United States.
v. Graham, 110 U. S. 219; Wisconsin C. R'd Co. v. United
States, 164 U. S. 190. But if there simply be doubt as to the
soundness of that construction--and that is the utmost that
can be asserted by the Governrent--the action during many
years of the department charged with the execution of the
statute should be respected, and not overruled except for
cogent reasons. Edwards v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206, 210;
United States v. Philbrick, 120 U. S. 52, 59; United States v.
Johnson, 124 U. S. 236, 253; United States v. Alabama G. S.
R'd Co., 142 U. S. 615, 621. Congress can enact such legislation as may be necessary to change the existing practice, if it
deems that ccurse conducive to the public interests."
In our judgment, the appellants properly construe the statute. We think it obviously means just what the Department
held it to mean for more than sixteen years. But the very
utmost that the Government can claim is that the statute in
question is doubtful in its meaning and scope. The rule in
such a case is not to disturb the long-continued practice of the
Department in its execution of a statute, leaving to Congress
to change it, when the public interests require that to be done.
But the Department, after being informed repeatedly by Congress that the change asked by Postmasters General would not
be made, concluded to effect the-change by a mere order that
would mrike the statute mean what the practice of sixteen
years, and the repeated action of Congress, had practically said
it did not mean and was never intended to mean. This is a
mode of amending and making laws which ought not to be
encouraged or approved.
It is suggested that the ruling of the Department was
changed because of the increased expense attending the carrying, as second class mailable matter, of such publications as
those of the appellants. But how could the fact of such expense justify a change in the settled construction of a statute?
That was a matter to which the attention of Congress was
specially and frequently called, and yet it refused to modify

OCTOBER TERAM, 1903.
Counsel for Appellants.

194 U. S.

the language of the statute. It was not the function of the
Postmaster General to sit in judgment on the policy of legislation and to determine the extent to which Congress should
authorize the expenditure of public moneys. The question of
expense was entirely for the legislative branch of the Government.
Something has also been said as to the discretion committed
to the Post Office Department in determining what is and what
is not second class mailable matter. But what about the
discretion with which previous Postmasters General had been
invested, when for many years they uniformly held that such
publications as the plaintiffs' were second class mailable matter? Is the discretion of one Postmaster General to be deemed
of more importance than the discretion of five of his predecessors in office?
In our opinion the law is for the appellants, and it should
have been so adjudged.

SMITH v. PAYNE.
APPEAL

FROM THE

COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE

DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 481. Argued March 10, 194.-Decided April 11, 1904.

What are periodicals and second class matter decided on authority of
Houghton v. Payne, ante, p. 88.
THIS was also a bill, filed by the firm of Street & Smith, to
enjoin the Postmaster General from cancelling certain certificates of entry admitting the publications of complainant firm
to the mail as second class mail matter. This case took the
same course as the preceding one.

Mr. Tracy L. Jeffords, with whom Mr. Charles FN Moody
and Mr. E. Van Buren Getty were on the brief, for appellants.

