OCTO13R TERM;. 1903.
Statemeot oc #he Case.

194 U. S.

RAOIAEL v. TRASK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCU IT COURT OF TUE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 229.

Argued April 18, 19, 1904.-Decided May 2, 1904.

Diverse citizenship does not exist, giving a Circuit Court of the United States
jurisdiction of an action affecting the disposition of a fund held by a copartnership doing business in a State other than that of complainant, if
any of the partners are citizens of complainant's State; nor can the jurisdiction of such an action be maintained, either for the purpose of enforcing
additional security or to stay waste, as ancillary to a foreclosure suit pending
in another Circuit Court of the United States, where there is no privity of
contract or trust relations between complainant and defendants, and the
record does not show that the defendantin the foreclosure suit could not
respond to any judgment that might be recovered therein.

THIS suit was begun by filing a bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, seeking
an injunction restraining the defendants, Spencer Trask &
Coumrpany, from selling certain shares of capital stock of the
Rio Grande and Western Railway Company to the Denver and
Rio Grande Railway Conipany, unless a sufficient sum of
money was deposited to indemnify the complainant upon the
demand hereinafter set forth.
It appears from the allegations of the bil that Nathaniel W.
Raphael, since deceased, now represented by Martha Raphael
a, administratrix, on January 7, 1901, filed a bill in the United
States Circuit Court for the District of Utah against the

Wasatch and Jordan Valley Railroad Company and the Rio
Gian Ie and Western Railway Company and the Union Trust
Company of New York, the object being to foreclose a mortgage given by the Wasatch and Jordan Valley Railroad Company, and to redeem from two independent mortgages certain
bv inch railroads in the possession of and claimed to be owned

by the Rio ( 'Irjicad Western Railway Company.

RAPHAEL v. TRASK.
[194 (. S.

Statement of the Cme.

A hile that suit was pending the present action was begun.
The bill averred that the defendants, composing the firm of
Spencer Trask & Company, hadundertaken to obtain stock of
the Eiio Grande and WeTstern Railway Company, and to sell the
same to the representatives of the Denver and Rio Grande
Railway Company, which company was proceeding to acquire
the railroad of the Rio Grande and Western Railway Company
by acquiring the common and preferred stock of that company.
It is averred that Spencer Trask & Company, while negotiating the sale of said stock, learning of the foreclosure )roceedings commenced by Raphael in the Utah court, made the following public advertisement:
"Since the coniniencement of the negotiations one Raphael
has instituted in the United States Circuit Court of Utah a suit
against the title of the Western Company to the Bingham and
Alta spurs of its railroad; and in making the contract, for the
vendors our firm gave its personal guarantee against any liability of the company in that suit. Although the company's
solicitors are confident of success, it is proper that our guarantee
be ratably shared by all who avail themselves of the contract
made by us for-the vendors. From the $80 per share and interest mentioned above we shall, therefore, deduct such
amount per share as counsel shall advise us will amply protect
us upon such guarantee. Such amount will be held in a special
trust."
The bill further avers:
'That the ineinbers of said firm of Spencer Trask & Company
are not parties to the suit pending in Utah, and that there is fib
agreement existing between complainant and the other holders
of the outstanding bonds similar to comiplainant's bonds, and
Spencer Trask & Company, by which the said proposed 'fund'
shall be applied towazrd the satisfaction of complainant's bond
and the other outstanding bonds."
There are further allegations that the complainant-"Is informed and believes that if said consolidation as set
forth in the scheme contemplated by the advertisements reVO.. (XQVV... 18

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

1941U. S.

ferred to, is allowed to be carried out, without some stipulation
between your orator and the members of the said firm of
Spencer Trask & Company, as to the custody of the said fund,
proposed to be created as aforesaid, the rights of remote purchasers of the mortgage premises, upon which complainant
claims a lien, will have intervened pending complainant's suit
in Utah, so that if complainant succeeds at the final hearing
of his suit in Utah, it will require the bringing into the suit, as
defendants, such remote purchasers, as the Denver and Rio
Grande Western Railway Company and their proposed successors."
The prayer for relief is:
"That a preliminary injunction be issued restraining the
said members of the firm of Spencer Trask & Company from
selling the said shares of the capital stock of the Rio Grande
Western Railway Company to the Denver' and Rio Grande
Western Railway Company as set-forth in the said advertisements of Spencer Trask & Company, 'nd which injunction your
orator prays may be made perpetual upon the final hearing of
this suit, unless the firm of Spencer Trask & Company shall
agree to turn over to some trust company in the city of New
York, at and before the completing of said sale of said shares, a.
sum of money which may be determined by this court, out of
the proceeds of said sale, as will be sufficient to satisfy complainant's claim and the other outstanding bondholders similar
to his own, upon the final hearing of complainant's suit in
Utah."
The bill also tefers to the affidavit of one of the defendants,
George Foster Peabody, filed in the Utah suit. This affidavit
is annexed to the bill of complaint, and is in part as follows:
"One stipulation of °the agreement for the sale of common
stock of the Rio Grande Western Railway Company made by
my banking firm of Spencer Trask & Company is that my said
firm shall guarantee the purchaser against any claim of the
complainant in this suit. The statement in that respect contained in the circular letter of my firm to the holders of the

RAJPIAEI,
194 U. S.

r'. TRASK.

Statement of the Case.

common stock of that company, of which one of such cuttings
is a copy, is as follows:
the commencement of the negotiation one Raphael
has instituted in the United States Circuit Court for Utah a
suit against the title of the Western Company to the Bingham
and Alta spurs of its railroad; and in making the contract for
the vendors our firm gave its personal guarantee against any
liability of the company in that suit. Although the d6mpany's
solicitors are confident of success, it is proper that our guaranty.
be ratably shared by all who avail themselves of the contract
made by us for the vendors. From the $80 per share and interest mentioned above we shall, therefore, deduct such amount
per share as counsel shall advise us will amply protect us upon
such guarantee. Such amount will be held in a special trust.'
"The result of this provision is that if the complainant have
any just claim, its payment is secured not only by the great
excess of the assets of the Rio Grande Western Company itself
over its debts, but also by a special amount to be held in trust.
I am advised by the counsel of the Western Company that such
provisions is a fact against, and not in favor of, the complainant's motion, as, it gives a greater assurance that, if the complainant's claim shall be established, it will be paid. '
"The statement of the said Raphael in his affidavit, that the
retention of a fund to indemnify my said firm for their proposed
guaranty against complainant's claim, is an attempt on the
part of the Western Company to hinder and delay the complainant, is unqualifiedly false. The Western Company is in
no way a party to the agreement or provision for such indemnity or such guaranty. The Western Company, if the
purchase of its common stock shall be completed, will be itself
indemnified against any claim of complainant."
To the bill of complaint the defendant filed a plea to the
jurisdiction of the court, appearing for that purpose and no
other, setting forth that the plaintiff at the time of the commencement of the suit was, and continues to be, a citizen of the
State of New Jersey; that two of the defendants, Charles J.
C'Since

OCTOBER TERM, 1.903,
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Peabody and Edwin M. Bulkley, were, at the time of the filing
of the bill and the beginning of the suit, citizens of the State
of New Jersey', and were not and had not been for over eight
years either citizens or residents of the State of New York.
The cause being brought on for hearing upon* the plea, the
bill of complaint was dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Subsequently an application was made for leave to amend the
bill and file a supplementary bill, which application was denied.
Upon dismissing the bill, for want of jurisdiction, the trial
court certified the question of jurisdiction and the cause came
here by direct appeal.
Mr. Charles Locke Easton for appellant.
Mr. William Mason Smith and Mr. Edward M. Shepard for
appellees.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court sustained the plea of the defendants upon
two grounds: 1, that the suit could not be maintained for want
of the required diversity of citizenship; and, 2, that it could
not be maintained as an ancillary or dependent proceeding for
want of proper averments to bring the case within that branch
of equity jurisdiction.
As the offer to amend and file a supplemental bill was not
entertained in the court below, and as the exercise of this discretion is not reviewable her'e, except in special cases, we are
only concerned with the correctness of the conclusion of the'
Circuit Court in dismissing the original bill.
As the case was brought on for consideration on bill of complaint and plea, the allegations of the plea are taken as ad-mitted as upon demurrer thereto. Farley v. Kittson, 120 U. S.
303, 314.
Looked at as an original bill, it is elerentary that all the

RAPHAEL v. TRASK.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

parties on one side of the controversy must be of diverse citizenship to those on the other. It is argued that the relief is
sought not against the firm or its members personally, but to
restrain the disposition of the fund pending the controversy
or to require it to be paid into the hands of a holder for the
benefit of the complainant as his rights may be established,
and as some of the defendants are residents of New York, the
bill can be maintained.
But we cannot concede the soundness of this claim. The
action is against the firm, and every member of the firm is
interested in the result. The prodeeding is against them
jointly. As between the complainant and the members of the
firm who are residents of the State of New York there is no
separable controversy. The partners are jointly and equally
interested in the fund alleged to be held and in the disposition
of the suit commenced by the complainant. This proposition
is so plain as to scarcely require the citation of authorities.
In Stone v. South Carolina, 117 U. S. 430, the State of South
Carolina commenced an action to recover certain money from
partners. Stone, one of the partners, sought to remove the
case on the ground that he was a citizen of the State of New
York. The application was denied, and upon this subject
Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court, said:
"The cause of action is joint, and only one of the defendants
petitions for removal. . . . Neither is there any separable
controversy in the case, such as might, if the necessary citizenship existed, allow Stone alone to remove the suit without
joining Corbin with him in the petition for removal. The
money sued for was received by the defendants as partners,
and they are liable jointly for its payment, if they are liable

at all."
We have no doubt that the case cannot be sustained as an
original suit dependent upon diverse citizenship.
Can the bill be sustained as an ancillary or supplementary
bill?
We had occasion to consider the nature of ancillary bills in

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

the late case of Julian v. Central Trust Co., decided at this

term, 193 U. S. 93, and we are unable to find any precedent in
the reported cases or text books which will maintain this bill in
that aspect. Ancillary bills are ordinarily maintained in the
same court as the original bill is filed, with a view to protecting
the rights adjudicated by the court in reference to the subject
matter of the litigation, and in aid of the jurisdiction of the
court, with A purpose of carrying out its decree and rendering
effectual rights to be secured or already adjudicated. Story
Eq. Pleading (8th ed.), §326 et seq.; Root v. Woolworth, 150 U. S.
401, 411; Bates Federal Equity Procedure, vol. 1, §97.
In the present case, the original action was begun to foreclose a mortgage upon property in Utah. It had nothing to do
with the sale of the stock by the stockholders represented by
Spencer Trask & Company. The stockholders were not parties
to the Utah bill, nor could any relief be had against them in
that suit. The purpose of Spencer Trask & Company in calling
upon the vendors of the stock to deposit a certain amount,
while having reference to the suit begun in Utah, did not evidence any agreement upon their part to indemnify the complainant because of any obligation or desire to protect him, but
was a matter between that firm and the stockholders for whom
it was acting. The purpose was to protect the selling firm,
because of its guaranty to the purchasers of the stock, in case
of any diminution in the value of the property in the event
that the complainant prevailed in the suit in the Utah court.
There was no privity of contract or trust relation between the
complainant and defendants to this suit.
It is true that the affidavit of George Foster Peabody, upon
which much reliance is had, gives some support to the claim
that the advertisement embodied an agreement for the indemnification of the complainant. At most this is but the construction that Mr. Peabody placed upon the advertisement,
and could not enlarge the rights of the complainant nor in any
way change the true nature of the proceeding. Nor does it
appear that this fund, had the complainant stood in such rela-

TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
194 U. S.

Syllabus.

tion of privity of contract that he could claim the benefit of it,
was necessary to the protection of the complainant's right in
the property held by the railroad company, against which he
was proceeding in Utah. There is nothing to show that the
railroad company, with the large surplus which it was alleged
to have accumulated, could not have responded to any decree
which the complainant might have recovered in the foreclosure
suit.
Nor can the bill be maintained as one to stay waste. There
is no estate of complainants in the hands of Spencer Trask &
Company which is likely to be wasted pending the suit. As the
complainant shows no legal or equitable right to the fund furnished by the stockholders, neither the method of its management nor its protection from diminution can concern him.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court was right, and that
the bill cannot be maintained either as an original or ancillary
proceeding.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. JOHN TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 561. Argued April 6, 7, 1904.-Decided May 16,1904.

Congress has power to exclude aliens from, and to prescribe the conditions
on which they may enter, the United States; to establish regulations for
deporting aliens who have illegally entered, and to commit the enforcements of such conditions and regulations to executive officers.
Deport-'

ing, pursuant to law, an alien who has illegally entered the United States,
does not deprive him of his liberty without due process of law.
The Alien Immigration Act of March, 1903, 32 Stat. 1213, does not violate
the Federal Constitution, nor are its provisions as to the exclusion of aliens
who are anarchists, unconstitutional.
A board of inquiry and the Secretary of Commerce and Labor having found
that an alien immigrant was an anarchist within the meaning of the Alien

