OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

194

U.

S.

firmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, we do not think there
is any such preponderance of evidence as would justify us in
disturbing their conclusions. The decree is therefore
Affirmed.

ELDER v. HORSESHOE MINING AND MILLING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
No. 220. Submitted April 18, 1904.-Decided May 2,1904.

A notice to a cobwner, to contribute his share of' development work on a
mining claim, when rightfully published under ยง 2324 is effective in cutting off the claims of all parties and the title is thus kept clear and free
from uncertainty and doubt. Claims for more than one year may be
grouped in one notice.

It is not necessary for the notice to delinquent cobwners required by ยง 2324,
Rev. Stat., to specifically name the heirs of a deceased cobwner, but is
sufficient if addressed to such coowner, "his heirs, administrators and to

whom itmay concern," even though an administrator had not been appointed at the time.
A notice published every day except Sundays, commencing' Monday, January 7, and ending Monday, April 1, held to have been published once a
week for ninety days and to be sufficient under ยง 2324, Rev. Stat.

THE plaintiffs in error, being, the administrator, together
with the heirs at law of Rufus Wilsey, deceased, commenced
this suit in the state court of South Dakota against the defendants, and upon the trial the complaint was dismissed upon the
merits; that judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State, and the plaintiffs have brought the case here. The
action was commenced to obtain a decree that defendants held
in trust for the plaintiffs in error an undivided one-half interest
in and to the land embraced in what is called in the complaint
the Golden Sand lode mining claim, the plaintiffs asked for a
decree that the defendants should convey to the plaintiff in

ELDER v. HORSESHOI, MINING & MILLING CO. 249
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

error, Elder, administrator, an undivided one-half interest
therein, and for such other and further relief as might be just
and equitable.
The answer contained a denial of the various allegations of
the complaint and set up a defence of laches on the part of the
plaintiffs in error in asserting their claim. The case went to
trial before the court, and the following facts were found:
In January, 1878, Rufus Wilsey and Charles H. Havens
located a mining claim near Bald Mountain, in the Whitewood
mining district, Lawrence County, South Dakota, by discovering mineral-bearing rock in place, sinking a shaft, posting discovery notices and planting boundary stakes; and on May 13
of the same year they filed for record their location certificate,
which was then recorded. On June 12,1878, Wilsey died, and
soon thereafter the plaintiffs, his heirs at law, were informed of
his death. They knew that he had left property, and from a
time shortly after his death corresponded with different attorneys and others residing in the Black Hills, trying to get
something out of the estate, but, until the arrangement was
made with the attorneys under which this action is brought,
made no progress toward a settlement. From the time of the
death of Wilsey, in 1878, up to December, 1893, the heirs of
Wilsey did nothing toward contributing or offering to contribute toward paying for the annual labor made necessary by
the Federal statute, Rev. Stat. sec. 2324; 2 Comp. Stat. p. 1426,
in order to keep possession of the mine. On June 19, 1878, one
Evans was appointed special administrator of the estate of
Wilsey, and his letters were subsequently revoked, and one
Stevens was appointed and filed his bond as administrator on
August 13, 1881. Subsequently, on an allegation of the death
of Stevens, some time in 1888, the present administrator was
appointed on the twelfth of August, 1893.
In 1889, or soon thereafter, processes for the successful
treatment of all mining ores, including such ore as was found in
the ground in controversy, were introduced in Lawrence
County, and as a consequence the value of the mining property

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

therein was materially enhanced, and this property became
of much greater value in August, 1892, and December, 1893,
than at any time since its location.
On December 5, 1893, the plaintiffs in error by their attorneys
served on the defendant company an offer in writing to pay
$700 for annual development and assessment work, and if that
was not the correct amount of the expense for protecting their
half interest in the Golden Sand lode, then they offered to pay
the full amount due for the protection of the half interest of the
plaintiffs in error, and they asked for a receipt, and demanded
a deed for such half interest. The offer and the request were.
refused, and this action was begun on December 6, 1893.
From the time of the location of the mine up to 1888, inclusive, Havens, the codwner with Wilsey, did at least one
hundred dollars' worth of labor each year in order to hold the
claim, and filed on January 2, 1889, an affidavit to that effect,
including the time from 1880 to and including the year 1887,
and another affidavit to the same effect for the year 1888.
Under the statute he publisheV a notice directed to "Rufus
Wilsey, his heirs, administrators, and to all whom it may concern," informing them that he had expended $800 in labor
upon the mine for the years ending December 31, 1880, 1881,
1882, 1883, 1884,-1885, 1886 and 1887, and stating that if
within ninety days after this notice by publication they failed
to'contribute their proportion, $400, being $50 for each of said
years, their interest in said claim would become the property
of the subscriber under section 2324 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States. Havens also published for the year 1888
a notice similar to the one already given in regard to the work
done prior to that year. The two notices were published in the
proper newspaper and were set out in full and published in each
daily issue of the paper, (every day in the week except Sunday,)
beginning Monday, January 7, 1889, and concluding Tuesday,
April 2, 1889, and no more. Havens also continued during the
years 1889, 1890, 1891, and 1892, to do at least $100 worth of
work in the mine for the purpose of holding the same. On

ELDER ,r.HORSESHOE MINING & MILLING CO. 251
194 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs i' Error.

August 10, 1892, Havens made a deed of the whole lode and
mining claim to one Thomas H. White, and on August 25, 1892,
White caused to be filed for record an affidavit of Havens,
which recited that he was one of the locators of the Golden Sand
lode and that Wilsey, his co6wner, and whom he advertised
out for not contributing his proportion of labor, had not paid
his proportion nor any of the expenditures for holding the
claim.
Questions were made as to the sufficiency of the notices and
as to the regularity of the publication of the same under the
above statute of the United States. The case was tried once
before and resulted in a judgment for plaintiffs, which was
reversed by the Supreme Court of the State, 9 S.Dak. 636, and
upon the new trial the judgment was for the defendants. 15
S. Dak. 124.
Mr. Ebei W. Martin and Mr. Norman T. Mason for plaintiffs in error:
The notice of forfeiture was not sufficiently addressed. If
there is any doubt as to the interprotation of the forfeiture provision of ยง 2324, the statute should be construed strictly as
against defendants because it is a statute of forfeiture. On this
point see, Hammer v. Garfield M. & M. Co., 130 U. S. 291;
Johnson v. Young, 24 Pac. Rep. 173 (Col.); Quigley -v.
Gillette, 35 Pac. Rep. 1040 (Cal.); Early v. Doe, 16 How. 615,
618; Ronkendorif's Case, 4 Pet. 349; 16 Am. & Eng. Ency. Law,
817; Farmers Bank v. Dearing,91 U. S.35; Marshall v. Vicksburg, 15 Wall. 146; Turner v. Sawyer, 150 U. S.578; Brundy v.
Mayfield, 38 Pac. Rep. 1067 (Mont.).
The title having vested in the heirs, it could not be
disturbed
by a notice given to a dead man. Billings v. Aspen Co., 51
Fed. Rep. 338.
The heirs and administrator should have been mentioned by
name. Many services have been held insufficient on account
of inaccuracy in names of parties. Detroit v. Railroad Co., 51
Fed. Rep. 9; Cotton v. Ruppert, 60 Michigan, 318; S. C., 27

OCTOBER TERM,' 1903.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

194 U. S.

N. W. Rep. 520; Entreken v. Chambers, 11 Kansas, 368; Thompson v. McCorkle, 34 N. E. Rep. 813 (Ind.); Chamberlain v.
Blogett, 10 S. W. Rep. 44 (Mo.), New Orleans v. St. Romes, 28
La. Ann. 17; Bleidorn v. Pilot Mt. Co., 15 S. W. Rep. 737
(Tenn.); Troyer v. Wood, 10 S..W. Rep. 43 (Mo.).
As to effect of notice and whether subsequent action was
necessary to forfeit the cobwner's title, see Brundy v. Mayfield, 38 Pac. Rep. (Mont.) 1069.
The publication was not sufficient as to time. Early v. Doe,
16 How. 617; Wilson v. Northwestern Mut. Ins. Co., "12C. C. A.
505; S. C., 65 Fed. Rep. 38; Pinlayson v. Peterson, 67 N. W.
Rep. 954 (N. Dak.); Bacon v. Kennedy, 56 Michigan, 329; 22
N. W. Rep. 824; Pratt v. Tinkcom, 21 Minnesota, 142, 146;
Boyd v. McFarlin, 58 Georgia, 208; Ogden v. Walker, 59
Indiana, 460, 466; Security Co. v. Arbuckle, 24 N. E. Rep. 329
(Ind.); Smith v. Rowles, 85 Indiana, 265; Market Nat. Bank
v. Bank, 89 N. Y. 398.
Mr. Chambers Kellar for defendants in error, cited as to
sufficiency of notice, Reilly v. Phillips, 4 S. Dak. 604; S. C.,
57 N. W. Rep. 780, and distinguished cases on brief of plaintiffs
in error; and cited as to sufficiency of publication: Rokensdorff
v. Taylor's Lessee, 4 Pet. 349; Nevada v. Yellow Jacket M. Co.,
5 Nevada, 415; Bachelor v. Bachelor, 1 Massachusetts, 256;
Sheldon v. Wright, 5 N. Y. 497; Alcott v. Robinson, 21 N. Y. 150;
De Peyster v. Michael, 6 N. Y. 467; Wood V. Moorehouse, 45
N. Y. 368; Chamberlain v. Dempsey, 13 Abb. Pr. 421; Steinze
v. Bell, 12'Abb. Pr. (N. S') 171; Wood v. Knapp, 100 N. Y. 109;
Savings & Loan Society v. Thompson, 32 California, 347; Cox v.
Lumber Co., 51 N. W. Rep. 1130; Knowlton v. Knowlton, 39
N. E. Rep. 595; Madden v. Cooper, 47 Illinois, 359; Pierson v.
Bradley, 48 Illinois, 250; Andrews v. People, 84 Illinois, 28;
Garrett v. Mauss, 20 Illinois, 549; Raum v. Leech, 54 N. W.
Rep. 1058; Johnson v. Hill, 62 N. W. Rep. 930; Wilson v.
Scott, 29 Ohio St. 636; Martin v. Hawkins, 35 S. W. Rep. 1104;
McDonald v. Cooper, 32 Fed. Rep. 745.

ELDER v. HORSESHOE MINING & MILLING CO. 253
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the above statement

of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Federal questions which arise in this case are based upon
the statute of the United States already referred to in the foregoing statement of facts, being section 2324 of the Revised
Statutes, the material portion of which is set forth in the
margin..
The plaintiffs in error contend that the notices published by
or in behalf of the defendants in error were not a compliance
with the statute, because of the manner in which they were
addressed. They also insist that, even assuming the sufficiency
of the notices, they were not published in accordance with the
Rev. Stat. sec. 2324; as amended 21 Stat. 61, c. 9, 2 Comp. Stat. p. 1426.
On each claim located after the tenth day of May, eighteen hundred and
seventy-two, and until a, patent has been issued therefor, not less than one
hundred dollars' worth of labor shall be performed or improvements made
during each yeor. On all claims located prior to the tenth day of May,
eighteen hundred and seventy-two, ten dollars' worth of labor shall be
performed or improvements made by the tenth day of June, eighteen hundred and seventy-four, and each year thereafter, for each one hundred feet
in length along the vein until a patent has been issued therefor; but where
such claims are held in common, such expenditure may be made upon any
one claim; and upon a failure to comply with these conditions, the claim or
mine upon which such failure occurred shall be open to relocation in the
same manner as if no location of the same had ever been made, provided that
the original locators, their heirs, assigns or legal representatives, have not
resumed work upon the claim after failure and before such location. Upon
the failure of any one 'of several co-owners to contribuite his proportion of
the expenditures required hereby, the co-owners -who have performed the
labor or made the improvements may, at the expiration of the year, give
such delinquent co-owner personal notice in writing, or notice by publication in the newspaper published nearest, the claim, for at least once a week
for ninety days, and if at the expiration of ninety days after such notice in
writing or by publication such delinquent should fail or refuse to. contribute
his proportion of the expenditure required by this section, his interest in the
claim shall become the property of his co-owners who have made the required expenditures. Provided, That the period within which the work
required to be done annually on all unpatented mineral claims shall commence on the first day of January succeeding the date of location of such
claim, and this section shall apply to all claims located since the tenth day
of May, Anno Domini eighteen hundred and seventy-two.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

requirements of the statute for a sufficient length of time, and
that, therefore, the title of the plaintiffs in error was not divested. We are not impressed with the validity of either of
the two objections.
As to the first. The notice was.addressed as follows: "To
Rufus Wilsey, his heirs, administrators, and to all whom it may
concern." The objection made is that at the time when this
notice was ppblished, Rufus Wilsey was dead, and there was no
administrator then existing and th-names of the heirs were not
given, and the notice, "to whom it may concern," was futile.
The statute, it will be observed, does not require that the
published notice in regard to a deceased co6wner shall be
directed to any one by name. Upon--the failure of a co6wner
to contribute his proportion of the expenditure required under
the section, the c6owner who has performed the labor or made
the improvements may, as provided for by the section, at the
expiration of the year, give such delinquent co6wner personal
notice in writing or notice by publication in the newspaper
published nearest the claim, and if at the expiration of ninety
days after such notice in writing, or by publication, the delinquent refuses to contribute his proportion or fails to do so,
his interest in the claim thereby becomes the property of his
coowners who have made the required expenditures. We
perceive no possible har'i arising from the fact that the notice
itself, containing all the facts necessary to be included therein,
was addressed to "Rufus Wilsey, his heirs, administrators aid
to whom it may concern." The fact that Rufus Wilsey was
dead was not material so far as to thereby render the notice to
his heirs illegal or insufficient. It certainly did them no harm
to include the name of Rufus Wilsey, and the notice was quite
as likely to become known to them as if it had been addressed
"to the heirs of Rufus Wilsey, deceased, his administrators, and
to all whom it may concern." It is entirely unlike the publication of a summons for the purpose of commencing an action
against a particular individual or individuals. There the identification must be complete and the person particularly de-

ELDER v. HORSESHOE MINING & MILLING CO. 255
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

scribed and named, so that when the publication has been
finished it can be known that the particular individual has been
served with process by publication with the same effect as if it
had been personally served on the same individual without
publication. This statute provides a summary method for the
purpose of insuring the proper contribution of codwners among
themselves in the working of the mine, and it provides a means
by which a delinquent co6wner may be compelled to contribute
his share under the penalty of losing his right and title in the
property because of such failure. It was not necessary, in our
judgment, that the notice should specifically name the heirs of
the. deceased owner. The act does not require it. If the
notice be such that the former owner is particularly named and
identified thereby, and his heirs are notified by the publication,
it is a sufficient notice to them for the purpose of making it
necessary for them to comply with, the terms of the statute
within the time designated therein by the payment of their
share of the expenses of working the mine, or else to lose their
right, title and interest therein. The codwner who did the
work might not know who the heirs were, and it might be impossible for him to learn their names or whereabouts, and the
statute never contemplated that the man who did the work
should be prevented from obtaining the benefit of the statute
by his inability to learn who the heirs were and where they
lived. A.general address to the heirs of the person named and
the proper publication of the notice, is sufficient. It did not
become insufficient because in addition to being addressed to
them it was also addressed to their intestate by name. An
address to a deceased person did them no harm, so long as At
was also addressed to them.
The Supreme Court of South Dakota has held in this case
that at the time this notice was published the title to a one-half
interest in this claim was in the heirs, subject to a possible lien
of the administrator for administration purposes, and had been
since 'the death of Wilsey. 9 S. Dak. 636, 642. The same
court has held that an administrator has but a lien on real

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

estate for administrative purposes, and that the title vests in
the heirs. (Cases cited in opinion of the state court.) The
only debt, so far as the record shows, existing against the estate
,of Wilsey was one for $50, in favor of Stevens, who was appointed administrator in 1881, and died in 1888, and from then
until 1893 there was no administrator, the present one being
appointed evidently for the purpose of this suit. The actual
title to the fee is in the government, but the interest of the
miner may be conveyed and inherited. Black v. Elkhorn
Mining Company,. 163 U. S. 445, 449. We are of opinion that
the publication of the notice was sufficient, although there
was no administrator at the time of publication. It is unnecessary under this statute to publish a notice to lienors. We
agree with the Supreme Court of the State that the evident
purpose and object of the law of 1872 (section 2324) were to
encourage the exploration and development of the mineral
lands of the United States and the sale of the same, and that
all the provisions of the law having been framed with that
object in view, if the required work is not performed, after the
expiration of the year, and notice of contribution properly
served or sufficiently published, the rights of delinquents are
absolutely cut off, though the failure to do the work may have
been caused by the death of the locator or locators during the
year. When a notice has been rightfully published under the
statute it becomes effective in catting off the claims of all
parties, and the title is thus kept clear and free from uncertainty and doubt.
There was no irregularity in grouping in one notice claims
for more than one year's expenditures. We can perceive no
reason why a consolidation of the claims of several years should
not be made and included in one and the same notice.
(2.) The objection to the sufficiency of the publication
of the
notice we regard as equally unfounded. The statute provides
for a publication "for at least once a week for ninety days."
The publication was in fact made every day, except Sunday,
in the proper newspaper, beginning Monday, January 7, 1889,

ELDER v. HORSESHOE MINING & MILLING CO. 257
19I U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and concluding Tuesday, April 2, 1889. And the statute provides that if, after the expiration of ninety days after such
notice in writing or publication, such delinquent should fail or
refuse to contribute his proportion .of the expenditure required
by this section, his interest in the claim shall become the property of his co6wners who have made the required expenditures.
The publication, we think, was sufficient. The ninety day
period begins with the first publication; in this case, Monday,
January 7. The publication on that day was sufficient for the
week then beginning. The publication on January 15 was
sufficient for that week, and, as stated by the Supreme Court
of South Dakota: "Each succeeding Monday would certainly
constitute at least one publication each week while so continued. There was a publication on each Monday from January 7 to April 1, both inclusive. If no publication was required
after the first until the following Monday, none was required
after April 1 until the following Monday, April 8, and on that
day the period of ninety days had been completed. Including
the first day of publication, ninety days ended on Saturday,
April 6. Excluding the first day, ninety days ended on Sunday, April 7. On that day the required notice had continued
during ninety days, and another publication on Monday,
April 8, was wholly unnecessary."
We are satisfied that this construction is the correct one, and
the publication was, therefore, made for a sufficient length of
time to comply with the statute.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of South Dakota is

Affirmed.
VOL. CXCIV-17

