IN1ERt -ATIONAL POSTAL SUPPLY CO. t-. BRUCE. 601
194 U. ES

Statement of the Caae,

INTERNATIONAL

POSTAL

SIXPVY

COMPANY

v.

BRUCE.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 215. Argued April 13. 14, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.

Complainant as the owner of letters patent for a cancelling and postmarking
machine brought suit against a postmaster to restrain him from using
infringing machines which were in his post office used exclusively by his
subordinates, employds of the United States, such use being in the service
of the United States, the machines having been hired by the Post Office
Department for a term not yet expired from the manufacturer at an
agreed rental payable on the order of the Department by whose order
they were placed and used in the post office.
Held, that the suit was virtually one against the United States and thk
Circuit Court of the United States has not the power to grant an injunction against the defendant restraining the use of the machines pending the leased period.
Prelknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10, followed.

THIS case came before the court on the following certificate

for instructions:
"The complainant as the owner of letters patent of the
United States for new and useful improvements in stamp
cancelling and postmarking machines, brought a bill in equity
against the defendant, who is postmaster of the United States
post office at Syracuse, New York, complaining of the use in
said post office of two machines, which infringe the complainant's letters patent, and praying for an injunction against the
further use of said machines. The defendant never personally
used any stamp cancelling and postmarking machines; but
the use of said two machines in said post office at Syracuse
is by some of defendant's -subordinates, who are employ6s of
the United States government, such use being in the service
of the United States.
"The machines so used were hired by the United States
Post Office Department for a term, which is as yet unexpired,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument foi Appellant.

194 U. S.

from the manufacturer and owner of said machines, at an
agreed rental which is payable on the order of the Post Office
)epartment, by whose orders said machines were placed in
the Syracuse post office and were and are now used there.
"And the said United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, further certifies, that to the end that it
may properly decide the questions in such cause, and presented
in the assignments of error therein filed, it requires the instructions of the.Supreme Court of the United States, on the
following question, to wit:
"Upon the foregoing facts, has the United States Circuit
Court the power to grant an injunction against the defendant,
restraining the use of the machines?"
Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Mr. George W. Hey was
on the brief, for appellant:
The government of the United States, by granting the
letters patent on which the complainant bases its claim for
relief, conferred upon it an exclusive property therein which
cannot be appropriated or used by the government itself or
by any of its officials without the complainant's consent.
Walker on Patents, § 167; 3 Robinson on Patents, § 897;
United Stales v. Burns, 12 Wall. 246; James v. Campbell, 104
IT. S. 356; Hollister v. Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 57; Solomons v.
United States, 137 U. S. 348; Head v. Porter, 48 Fed. Rep. 481;
Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 15, 16.
The defendant having used an infringing device against the
complainant's protest, hil tortious act cannot be made the
basis of a suit against the United States in the Court of Claims,
or in any other court. Gibbons v. United States, 8 Wall. 269;
Morgan v. United States, 14 Wall. 531; Langford v. United
States, 101 U. S. 341; United States v. Jones, 131 U. S. 1, 16, 18;
German Bank v. United States, 148 U. S. 573, 579; Hill v.
United States, 149 U. S.593.
The United States is not liable to a suit for an infringement
of a patent, since such a suit is one sounding in tort. Schil-

INTERNATIONAL POSTAL SUPPLY CO. v. BRUCE. 603
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

linger v. United States, 155 U. S. 163; United States v. Berdan
Co., 156 U. S. 552.

The complainant would thus be remediless with respect to
a conceded infringement of its fights,. unless relief by injunction is granted against the defendant for his continuing trespasses against the complainant's property right, and it is
believed that such .remedy is available, notwithstanding the
defendant's official position.
The exemption of the United States and of the several States
from judicial process does not protect their officers and agents,
civil or military, in time of peace, from being personally liable
to an action by a private person whose rights of property
they have wrongfully invaded or injured, even by authofity of
the government which they represent. Little v. Barreme, 2
Cranch, 169; Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Bates v. Clark, 95
U. S. 204; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1; Kilbourn v.
Thompson, 103 U. S. 198.
Actions of ejectment have been maintained against government officers in possession of land under government authority.
United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196; Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S.
204. See also Poindexterv. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270; Cunningham v. Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 446;.Stanley v. Schwalby, 147
U. S. 508, 518; McGahey v. Virginia, 13Z TJ. S. 662, 684;
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 518; Am. Sch-ol &c v. McAnnulty,
187 U. S. 94.
As to suits against government officials on patents, see
Cammeyer v. Newton, 94 U. S. 225, 234; James v. Campbell,
104 U. S. 356; Hollister v. Manufacturing Co., 113 U. S. 59;
Head v. Porter, 48 Fed. Rep. 481. 'And see also Vavasseur v.
Krupp, 9 Ch. Div. 351, 358.
The government does not aver payment of rent in advance
so an injunction against using the machines would not be a
source of pecuniary loss. Even if the rental had been paid in
advance of an injunction issued based on the establishment of an infringement, the government could recover any
rental paid in advance, on the theory of a failure of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1'903,.
Argument for Appellee.

194 U, S.

sideration. The granting of an injunction would be equivalent to an eviction by title paramount. Tomlinson v. Day,
2 13. & B 680; Neale v. McKenzie, 1 M. & W. 747; Fitchburg
Manufactory Co. v. Melven, 15 Massachusetts, 268; Sinmers v.
Saltius, 3 Denio, 214; Home Life Ins. Co. v. Shernion, 46 N. Y.

370; Walker on Patents (3d ed.), § 307, citing White v- Lee,
14 Fed. Rep. 791; McKay v. Smith, 39 Fed. Rep, 557; Pacific
Iron Works v. Ncwhall, 34 Connecticut, 67; 3 Robinson on
Patents, § 1251; Herzog v. Heyman, 151 N. Y. 587; Standard
Button Co. v. Ellis, 34 N. E. Rep. 682.
Since Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10, see Dashiell v. Grosvenor, 162 U. S. 425; Scott v. Donald, 165 I. S. 108; In re Tyler,
149 U. S. 164. These and other cases relied on by appellee
are not applicable and can be distinguished.
Mr. TV. K. Richardson, with whom Mr. J. C. McReynolds,
Assistant Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellee:

Appellee relies on Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S 10, and appellants have failed to distinguish that case.
As to the rights of the lessee, who is practically for the time
the owner, see United States v. Shea, 152 U. S. 178; The Jersey
City, 51 Fed. Rep. 529; Smith v. Plomer, 15 East, 607;
Muggridge v. Eveleth, 9 Met. 233; Fairbank v. Phelps, 22 Pick.
535; Wade v. Mason, 12 Gray, 335.
The Federal courts have always recognized the hardships
arising from an injunction against the use of the alleged infrihging machines and it would be an interference with the
government's prerogative. Barnardv. Gibson, 7 How. 650,658;
Morris v. Lowell Mg. Co., 3 Fish. Pat. Cas. 67; Bliss v. Brooklyn, 4 Fish. Pat. Cas. 596; Ballard v. City of Pittsburg, 12 Fed.
Rep. 783, 786; Westinghouse Air-Brake Co. v. Burton StockCar Co., 70 Fed. Rep. 619; and on appeal 77 Fed. Rep. 301;
Hlitingdon Dry Pulverizer Co. v. Alpha Portland Cement Co.,
91 Fed. Rep. 534. See also The Davis, 10 Wall. 21, as to
po s'ession of the government.
Besides Belknap v. Schild, see Thompson v. Sheldon, 98 Fed.

INTERNATIONAL POSTAL SUPPLY CO. v. BRUCE. 605
19i U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Rep. 621 ; Head v. Porter,48 Fed. Rep.
7 Blatch. 73; James v. Campbell, 104
Newton, 94 U. S. 225, 234; Dashiell v.
584. Cases on appellant's brief can

481; Healon v. Quintard,
U. S. 356; Cammeyer v.
Grosvenor, 62 Fed. Rep.
be distinguished.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMEs, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is governed by Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10.
There an injunction was sought against the Commandant of
the United States Navy Yard at Mare Island, California, and
some of his subordinates, to prevent the use of a caisson gate
in the dry dock at that place, contrary to the rights of the
plaintiff as patentee. The case was heard on pleas setting up
that the caisson gate was made and us&d by the United States
for public purposes, and, as they were construed, that it was
the property of the United States. The pleas were held bad
as answers to the whole bill, because the bill also sought damages and the defendants might be personally liable, but it was
held that an injunction could not be granted, and the bill was
dismissed without prejudice to an action at law. Vav'asseur
v. Krupp, 9 Ch. D. 351, was cited for the proposition which
was made the turning point of the case, that the court could
not interfere with an object of property unless it had before
it the person entitled to the thing, and this proposition was

held to extend to an injunction against the use of the thing
as well as to a destruction of it or to a removal of the part
which infringed. It was pointed out that the defendants had
no personal interest in the continuance of the" use, and that,
so far as the injunction was Concerned, the suit really was
against the United States. Of course, if those defendants
were enjoined other persons attempting to use the caisson
gate would be, and thus the injunction practically would work
a prohibition against its use by the United States
Belknap v. Schild differed from United States v. Lee, 106

U. S. 196, and Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U. S. 204, and also from

OCTOBER TERM, 1903,
HARLAN and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S.

American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S.
94, relied on by the appellant, in the fact, among others, that
the title of the United States to the caisson gate was admitted,
and therefore the United States was a necessary party to a
suit which was intended to deprive it of the incident of title,
the right to use the gate. As the United States could not be
made a party the suit failed. In the case at bar the United
States is not the owner of the machines, it is true, but it is a
lessee in possession, for a term which has not expired. It
has a property, a right in rem, in the machines, which, though
less extensive than absolute ownership, has the same incident
of a right to use them while it lasts. This right cannot be
interfered with behind its back and, as it cannot be made a
party, this suit, like that of Belknap v. Schild, must fail. The
answer to the question certified must be no. Whether or not
a renewal of the lease could be enjoined is not before us.
The question is answered in the negative, and it will be so
certified.
MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN,
PECKHAM,

with whom concurred MR.

JUSTICE

dissenting.

It is to be assumed upon this record that the plaintiff, the
International Postal Supply Company, is the owner of letters
patent granted by the United States for new and useful improvements in stamp cancelling and postmarking machines;
and that the defendant Bruce, against the will of the patentee
and without paying any royalty to him, is using and, unless
enjoined, will continue to use, machines that infringe the
plaintiff's letters patent.
Can the defendant be prevented from thus violating rights
of'the plaintiff in respect of his patent, the validity of which
is not here disputed? In answering this question it is necessary to bring together the observations of this court in some
cases heretofore decided. That being done but little additional need be said.

INTERNATIONAL POSTAL SUPPLY CO. v. BRUCE. 607
194 U. S.

HARLAN

and

PECKUAM,

JJ., dissenting.

In James v. Campbell, 104 U. S. .356, 357, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, said: "That the Government of
the United States, when it grants letters patent for a new
inveption or discovery in the arts, confers upon the patentee
an exclusive property in the patented invention which cannot
be appropriated or used'by the Government itself, without just
compensation, any more than it can appropriate or use without compensation land which has been patented to a private
purchaser, we have no doubt. The Constitution gives to Congress power 'to promote the progress of science and Useful
arts by securing for limited times to authors and inventors
the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries,'
which could not be effected if the Government had a reserved
right to publish such writingsor to use such inventions without
the consent of the owner. Many inventions relate to subjects
which can only be properly used by the Government, such as
explosive" shells, rams and submarine batteries, to be attached
to armed vessels. If it could use such inventions without compensation, the inventors could get no return at all for their
discoveries and experiments. It has been the general practice,
when inventions have been made which are desirable for Government use, either for the Government to purchase them from
the. inventors, and use them. as secrets; of the proper deparment; or, if a patent is granted, to pay the patentee a fair
compensation for their use. The United States has no such.
prerogative as -that which is claimed by the sovereigns of
England, by which it can reserve to itself, either expressly
or by implication, a superior dominion and use in that which
it grants by letters patent to those who entitle themselves to
such grants. The Government -of the United States, as well
as the .citizen, .s subject to the Constitution; and when it
grants a patent the grantee is entitled to -it as a matter of right,
and does not receive it, as was originally supposed to be the
case in England, as a ~atter of grace and favor." Observe,
that the court said that, without compensation to the patentee,
the Government could not appropriate or use his invention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HAPLw and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S.

These views were reaffirmed by the unanimous judgment
of this court in United States v. Palmer, 128 U. S. 262, 272.
And as late as Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10, 15, after oh.serving that in England the grant of a patent for an invention
was considered as simply an exercise of the royal prerogative,
and was not to be construed as precluding the Crown from
using the invention at its pleasure, the court said: "But, in
this country, letters patent' for inventions are not granted in
the exercise of prerogative or as a matter of favor, but under
art. 1, sec. 8, of the Constitution of the United States, which
gives Congress power 'to promote the progress of science and
useful arts by securing for limited terms to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and
discoveries.' The Patent Act provides that every patent shall
contain a grant to the patentee, his heirs and assigns, for a
certain term of years, of 'the exclusive right to make, use and
vend the invention or discovery throughout the United States.'
Rev. Stat. § 4884. And this' court has repeatedly and uniformly declared that the United States have no more right
than any private person to. use a patented invention without
license of the patentee or making compensation to him"-citing United States v. Burns, 12 Wall. 246, 252; Cammeyer v.
Newton, 94 U. S.225, 235; James v. Campbell, 104 U. S.356,
358; Hollister v. Benedict Mfg. Co., 113 U. S.59, 67; United
States v. Palmer, 128 U. S. 262, 270, 272.
In the previous case of United States v. Lee, 106 U. S.196,
which was a suit to recover certain lands to which the plaintiffs claimed title, but which were in the possession of the defendants, (officers of the Army,) who asserted title tothe
United States, it was contended that the suit was, in legal
effect, one against the United States, and therefore not maintainable. But the contrary was adjudged in that case. The
court, upon an extended review of the authorities, held that
the suit was not to be deemed one against the Government
within the recognized rule that the United States cannot be
sued without its consent, and that it was competent for the

INTERNATIONAL POSTAL SUPPLY CO. ?o BRIUCE. 609
194 U. S.

HARLAN and PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting,

courts to protect the rights of the plaintiffq against the wrong
acts of the defendants, although they were officers of the
Government and acting by its authority. Mr. Justice Miller,
speaking for the court, said: "This right being clearly established, we are told that the court can proceed no further,
because it appears that certain military officers, acting under
the orders of the President, have seized this estate, and converted one part of it into a military fort aid another into a,
cemetery. It is not pretended, as the case now stands, that
the President had any lawful authority to do this, or that the
legislative body could give him any such authority except
upon payment of just compensation. The defence stands here
solely upon the absolute immunity from judicial inquiry of
every one who asserts authority from the executive branch
of the Government, however clear it may be made that the
executiVe possessed no such power. Not only no suchl power
is given, but it is absolutely prohibited, both to the executive
and the legislative, to deprive any one of life, liberty or property without due process of law, or to take private proper'ty
without just compensation. These provisions for the security
of the rights of the citizen stand in the Constitution in the
same connection and upon the same ground as they regard
his liberty and his property. It cannot be denied that both
were intended to be enforced by the judiciary as one of the
departments of the Government established by that Constitution.

No man in this country is so high that he is

above the law. No officer of the law may set that law at
defiance with impunity. All the officers of the Government,
from the highest to the lowest, are creatures of the law, and
are bound to obey it. It is the only supreme power in our
system of government, and every man, who, by accepting
office, participates in, its functions, is only the more strongly
bound to submit to that supremacy, and to observe the limitations which it imposes upon the exercise of the authority
which it gives. Courts of justice are established not only to
decide upon the controverted rights of the citizens as against
voL. cxciv---39

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

194. U. S.

each other, but also upon rights in controversy between them
and the Government; and the docket of thi court is crowded
with controversies of the latter class. Shall it be said, in the
face of all this, and of the acknowledged'right of the judiciary
to decide in proper cases, statutes which have been passed by
both branches of Congress, and approved by the President, to
be unconstitutional, that the courts cannot give a remedy
when the citizen has been deprived of his property by force,
his estate seized and converted to the use of the Government
without lawful authority, without process of law, and without
compensation, because the President has ordered it and his
officers are in possession? If such be the law of this country,
it sanctions a tyranny which has'no existence in the monarchies
of Europe, nor in any other government which has a just
claim to well-regulated liberty and the protection of personal
rights."
In Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 10, the court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Lamfr, after referring to the class of
suits in which the defendants, claiming to act as officers of
the State, and under color of an unconstitutional statute
commit acts of wrong and injury to the rights and property
of the plaintiff, said: "Such suit, whether brought to recover
money or property in the hands of such defendants, unlawfully taken by them in behalf of the State, or for compensation
in damages, or, in a proper case, where the remedy at law is
inadequate, /or an injunction to prevent such wrong and injury,
or for a mandamus, in a like case, to enforce upon the defendant the performance of a plain, legal duty, purely ministerial
-- is not, within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment, an
action against -the State." This principle was reaffirmed by
the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Shiras in In re Tyler, 149
U. S. 164, 190; and again, in Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 58,
68.
In Tindal v. Wesley, 167 U S. 204, by an unarrimous judg.ment, the court held that a suit against an individual to
recover possession of certain real estate was not one against

INTERNATIONAL POSTAL SUPPLY CO. v. BRUCE. 611
194 U. S.

HARLAN

and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

a State forbidden by the Eleventh Amendment, although
defendant was in possession as an officer of the State, not
asserting any interest for himself in the.property. It said:
"If a suit against officers of a State to enjoin them from
enforcing an unconstitutional statute, whereby the plaintiff's
property will be injured, or to recover damages for taking
under a void statute the property of the citizen, be not one
against the State it is impossible to see how a suit against the
same, individuals to recover the possession of property belong-ing to the plaintiff and illegally withheld by the defendants
can be deemed a suit against the State. Any 'other view
leads to this result: That if a State, by its officers, acting
under a void statute, should seize for public use the property
of a citizen, without making or securing just compensation
for him, and thus violate the constitutional provision declaring that no State shall deprive any person of property without
due process of law, Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. Chicago,

166 U. S. 226, 236, 241, the citizen is remediless so long as the
State, by its agents, chooses to hold his property; for, according to the contention of the defendants, if such agents are
sued as individuals, wrongfully in possession, they can bring
about the dismissal of the suit by simply informing the court
of the official character in which they held the property thus
illegally appropriated."
I cannot agree that the present decision is in harmony with
the principles announced in the above cases. The United
States is not here sued, although, as in United States v. Lee, it
may be incidentally affected by the result. No- decree is.
asked against it. The suit is against Dwight H. Bruce, who
is proceeding in violation of the plaintiff's right of property,
and denies the power of any court to interfere with him solely
upon the ground that what he is doing is under the order and
sanction of the Post Office Department. He is, so to Apeak,
in the possession of and wrongfully 'using the plaintiff's patdnted invention, and denies the right of any court, by its
mandatory 'order, to prevent him from continuing in his lawless

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN and IECKHAM, JJ,, dissenting.

194 U. S.

invasion of a right granted by the Constitution and laws of the
United States.

But, as shown by the cases above cited, not

even the United States, much less the Head of a Department,
has a right to use the patent of the plaintiff without its license
and without compensation. Althougb the Constitution and
statutes of the United States give to the plaintiff the right to
the exclusive use of the invention, nevertheless, according to
the present decision, that use may be rendered utterly valueless by the device of an order from the head of an Executive
Department to a subordinate to proceed in disregard of the
rights of the patentee. Thus every patented right to an
invention which can be profitably or conveniently used in the
business of the Government may be destroyed by the arbitrary
action of the Head of a Department, and tile patentee deprived
of any compensation whatever for his invention except such
as Congress may, in its discretion, choose to allow.
If Congress, by statute, and in the exercise of its power of
eminent domain, had chosen to take the plaintiff's patent
right for public use, at the same time opening the way, by some
appropriate proceeding, through which the patentee could
secure compensation from the Government for his property
so taken, different considerations would. arise. But no such
action has been taken by Congress. The case before us is one
in which it is held that the court cannot, by any direct process
against the defendant, stop him from doing that, which confessedly he has no legal right to (1o, namely, to use an invention against the will of the patentee. It was supposed that
this court announced an incontrovertible proposition when,
in United States v. Lee, it said that "no man in this country
is so high that he is above the law," and that "all the officers of
the Government, from the highest to the lowest, are creatures
of the law, and are bound to obey it." But it seems that some
officers are above the law and may trample upon the rights
of private property-Heads of Departments who may upon
their own motion seize the property of a patentee and use it
in the public business, and then close the doors of the courts

INTERNATIONAL POSTAL SUPPLY CO. v. 3RUCE..613
194 U. S.

HARLAN

and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

with such effect that a subordinate officer, acting under Departmental orders, may not be stopped in his wrongful violation
of the rights of the patentee. Such arbitrary destruction of
the property rights of the citizen might be expected to occur
under a despotic government, but it ought not to be tolerated
under a government whose fundamental law forbids all deprivation of property without due process of law, or the taking
of private property for public use without compensation.
Both the Constitution and the acts of Congress recognize the
patentee's right to the exclusive use of his invention. But,
for every practical, purpose, the present decision not only
places it in the power of an Executive Department to destroy
the rights of the patentee, but recognizes the helplessness of
the judiciary in the presence of such a wrong.
Suppose Congress, under its power to regulate
commerce,
should enact a statute regulating rates for freight and passengers on interstate carriers, and that such statute, by reason of
some provisions in it, was unconstitutional or incapable of
execution without destroying the legal rights of such carriers.
Could it be doubted that the courts might, at the instance of
an interstate carrier directly affected by the act, enjoin the
public officers charged with the execution of the act from
enforcing its provisions? Would their hands be stayed by the
suggestion that as the United States, in its corporate capacity,
could not be made a party defendantrof record, no relief could
be granted against the persons who sought, under the cover of
official station, to enforce an unconstitutional statute destructive of private rights?
Or, suppose Congress should, by statute, expressly direct
the Postmaster General to use a particular patented invention, paying nothing for such use, and at the same time
withhold from the courts jurisdiction of any suit against the
Government by the patentee to obtain compensation for his
property so taken for public use? Ought it to be doubted
that such an act would be declared unconstitutional and void,
and that the courts would, at the suit of the patentee, although

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN and PECKIJAM, JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S.

the Government was not, and could not be made a party-defendant of record, prevent the person holding the office of
Postmaster General from proceeding under the act? Such
a suit would not be regarded as a suit against the United States
in its governmental capacity, any more than a suit by a railroad company against the official representatives of a State,
charged with the execution of an unconstitutional statute
fixing confiscatory rates for freights, would be deemed a suit
against a State within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment. Smyth. v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, and authorities cited.
Let me give another illustration. Suppose Congress should,
by statute, in a time of peace, direct the Secretary of War to
take possession of the private residence of a citizen and use
it for a quartermaster's office, and at the same time exclude

from the jurisdiction of any court a suit against the United
States to recover compensation for the property so taken for
public use. Would the court refuse to stay the hands of the
Secretary of War in executing the provisions of such a statute,
simply because the United States could not be made a party
of record to the suit? Surely not.
The court regards Belknap v. Schild as decisive of this case.
I cannot assent to that view. That case was exceptional in
its facts, and its doctrines ought not to be extended so as to
embrace the present one. If there are expressions in the
opinion in that case which seem to sustain the present decision,
they should be withdrawn, or so modified as not to impair the
force of previous decisions. The relief asked in that case was
not only an injunction against the defendants from using the
caisson gate which had been constructed, as was alleged, in
violation of the" plaintiff's right as patentee for an improvement in caisson gates, but an order for the destruction or
delivery to the plaintiff of the particular gate in question,
which had been built for the United States, according to plans
furnished by its officers, and had been placed in such position
that it had become a part, physically, of the docks at the
Government Navy Yard. The destruction or displacement

.INTERNATIONAL POSTAL SUPPLY CO. v. BRUCE. 615
194 U. S.

HARLAN

and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

of the gate, by order of the court, would have. seriou4 disturbed the general business of the entire Navy Yard. In
the present case the facts are altogether different. To enjoin
the present defendant from using the plaintiff's invention
may produce some inconvenience, for a time, at his particular
office, but it will only make it necessary for the Government
to be honest and either pay the plaintiff for the right to use
its invention, or direct that some mode of stamp cancelling
be employed other than that involved in the plaintiff's patent.
A government employer cannot justify the illegal use of a
patentee's invention upon the ground that such use will subserve his convenience, or enable him more efficiently to serve
the public. The effective relief sought here is not the physical
destruction of the machines leased by the Government, but
an injunction to prevent the defendant Bruce from using the
plaintiff's invention, embodied in whatever machine, without its license and without compensation to it. No relief is
asked against any other person than the defendant. It is
admitted that the United States cannot) any more than a
private individual, use a patented invention without the
license of the patentee. It is admitted that the Head of
an Executive Department cannot legally authorize a postmaster to use such invention against the will of the patentee.
It is admitted that no postmaster can legally justify his invasion of the patentee's right by any order given by the
Postmaster General which was made or issued in derogation
of the rights of the patentee. And yet it is now adjudged
that, although a postmaster may be confessedly proceeding
in direct violation of the legal rights of the patentee, the court
cannot, by any direct process, stop him in his destruction of
the patentee's right of property. Under the present decision,
the Post Office Department not only may use, without compensation, the particular postmarking machines in question
here, but it can lease others and continue its violation of the
patentee's rights at its discretion, thereby making the exclusive use granted by the patent of no value whatever.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
HARLAN

and

PECKHAM,

JJ., dissenting.

194 U. S.

It may be said that the patentee has a remedy in an action
for damages against the infringer: But clearly such a remedy
is not at all adequate or efficacious. The slightest reflection
will show this. The only effectual remedy is an injunction
against him. In Pennoyer v. McConnaughy and in In re
Tyler, dbove cited, it was held that in suits against public
officers on account of wrongful acts done under color of an
unconstitutional statute, where the remedy at law was inadequate, an injunction to prevent such wrong and injury was
proper. The books are full of cases in support of that principle. I submit that the immunity'of the United States from
direct suit is an all-sufficient reason why the court shall lay
its hands upon the defendant, who happens to be a local postmaster, and prevent him by injunction from disregarding the
admittedly legal rights of the plaintiff. No other remedy is
adequate. If that relief cannot be granted, then the rights
of all patentees, whose inventions can be used in the prosecution of the business of the Government, are subject to be
destroyed by the arbitrary action of Heads of Departments
and their subordinate officers.
I am of opinion that every officer of the Government, however high hisposition, may be prevented by injunction, operating directly upon him, from illegally injuring or destroying the
property rights of the citizen; and this relief should more
readily be given when the Government itself cannot be made
a party of record.
The courts may, by mandamus, compel a public officer to
perform a plain, ministerial duty prescribed by law; and that
may be done,,although the Government itself cannot be made
a party of record. Can it be possible that the court is without
authority to enjoin the same officer from doing a direct,
affirmative wrong to the property rights of the citizen, upon
the ground that the Government whom he represents and in
whose interest he is acting is not and cannot be made a party
of record? The present decision--erroneously, I take leave
to say--answers this question favorably to the defendant.

INTERNATIONAL, POSTAL SUPPLY CO. v. BRUCE. 617

194 U.

S.

HARLAN and PECKHAM, JJ., dissenting.

But that answer cannot, I submit, be made consistently with
the declaration which this court has often repeated, that no
officer of the law, however high his position, can set that law
at defiance with impunity; that the Government, as well as the
citizen, is subject to the Constitution, and therefore cannot
legally appropriate or use a patented invention without just
compensation any more than it can appropriate or use, without compensation, land that it had patented to a private
purchaser. Instead of a patentee having the exclusive use
or control of his invention-which is the mandate of both
the Constitution and the statute-Heads of Departments, it
seems, are not bound to respect the rights of inventors, but
can enjoy the exclusive privilege of appropriating to the use
of the Government, without compensation to the patentee,
any patented invention that may be beneficial in the prosecution of the public business. In my judgment it is not possible to conceive of any case, arising under our system of constitutional government, in which the, courts may not, in some
effective mode, and properly, protect the rights of the citizen
against illegal aggression, and to that end, if need be, stay the
hands of the aggressor, even if he be a public officer, who acts
in the interest or by the direction of the Government.
MR.

JUSTICE

PECKHAM concurs in this dissent.

