PLYMOUTH CORDAGE CO. v. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

PLYMOUTH CORDAGE COMPANY v. SMITH.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No.565.

Submitted April 5, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit has jurisdiction to
superintend and revise, in matter of law, proceedings of the District
Courts of the Territory of Oklahoma in bankruptcy.

THIS was a petition to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit to superintend and revise in matter of law
certain proceedings in bankruptcy had in the District Court
of Kingfisher County, Oklahoma, on which a question or
proposition of law arose concerning which that court desired
the instruction of this court, and accordingly granted a certificate setting forth: (1) Section 24 a, b, of the bankruptcy law;
(2) The order of this court of May 11, 1891, assigning the
Territory of Oklahoma to the Eighth Judicial Circuit, pursuant to section 15 of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891;
(3) The filing of the petition to superintend and revise in
matter of law the proceedings of the District Court of Kingfisher County, Oklahoma, in the following particulars:
"(a.) On March 23, 1903, a petition was pending in said
court -to adjudge J. A. Smith an involuntary bankrupt. The
District Court on that date permitted three creditors to withdraw from said petition.
"(b.) On April 6i 1903, the District Court of Kingfisher
County, Oklahoma, sustained a motion to dismiss a petition
in involuntary bankruptcy theretofore filed against J. A.
Smith.
"(c.) On April 6, 1903, the District Court of Kingfisher
County, Oklahoma, denied the prayer of certain creditors of
J. A. Smith asking leave to join in the petition in involuntary
bankruptcy against J. A. Smith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

"(d.) On April 14, 1903, the District Court of Kingfisher
County, Oklahoma, refused to permit certain creditors of
J. A. Smith to file a motion asking the court to set aside the
order of April 6, 1903, dismissing the petition in involuntary
bankruptcy against J. A. Smith."
(4) That petitioners prayed the court "to set aside each
and all of the foregoing orders so entered by the District
Court of Kingfisher County, Oklahoma."
And propounding the following question or proposition of
law:

"Does the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit have the jurisdiction to superintend and revise
in matter of law the proceedings of the District Court of Kingfisher County, Oklahoma, in bankruptcy?"
Mr. E. C. Brandenburg and Mr. Edwin A. Krauthoff for
appellant.
No brief filed for appellee.
after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

By the bankruptcy law, the District Courts of the United
States in the several States, the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, the District Courts of the several Territories and
the United States courts in the Indian Territory and the
District of Alaska are made courts of bankruptcy.
By subdivision 3 of section 1 the words "appellate courts"
are defined to "include the Circuit Courts of Appeals of the
United States, the Supreme Courts of the Territories, and the
Supreme Court of the United States."
"Appellate jurisdiction of controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy from which
they have appellate jurisdiction in other cases," is vested by
section 24a in the Supreme Court of the United States, the

PLYMOUTH CORDAGE CO. v. SMITH.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Cc art.

Circuit Courts of Appeals of the United States, and the Supreme Courts of the Territories. And by section 24b it is
provided that the several Circuit Courts of Appeals shall have
jurisdiction in equity "to superintend and revise in matter
of law the proceedings of the several inferior courts of bankruptcy within their jurisdiction."
By section 25a appeals "as in equity cases, may be taken
in bankruptcy proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy to
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the United States, and to the
Supreme Court of the Territories" from judgments adjudging
or refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt; granting
or denying a discharge; and allowing or rejecting a claim of
five hundred dollars or over.'
Ss~c. 24. Jurisdiction of Appellate Courts. a. The Supreme Court of the.
United States, the Circuit Courts of Appeals of the United States, and the
Supreme Courts of the Territories, in vacation in chambers and during their
respective terms, as now or as they may be hereafter held, are hereby invested with appellate jurisdiction of controversies arising in bankruptcy
proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy from which they have appellate
jurisdiction in other cases. The Supreme Court of the United States shall
exercise a like jurisdiction from courts of bankruptcy not within any organized circuit of the United States and from the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia.
b. The several Circuit Courts of Appeal shall have jurisdiction in equity,
either interlocutory or final, to superintend and revise in matter of law the
proceedings of the several inferior courts of bankruptcy within their jurisdiction. Such power shall be exercised on due notice and petition by any
party aggrieved.
SEc. 25. Appeals and Writs of Error. a. That appeals, as in equity cases,
may be taken in bankruptcy proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy to
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the United States, and to the Supreme
Court of the Territories, in the following eases, to wit, (1) from a judgment
adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt; (2) from a
judgment granting or denying a discharge; and (3) from a. judgment allowing or rejecting a debt or claim of five hundred dollars or over. Such appeal shall be taken within ten days after the judgment appealed from has
been rendered, and may be heard and determined by the appellate court
in term or vacation, as the case may be.
b. From any final decision of a Court of Appeals, allowing or rejecting a
claim under this act, an. appeal may be had under such rules and within
such time as may be prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States,
in the following cases and no other:

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

The act clearly distinguishes between "controversies arising
in bankruptcy proceedings" and "bankruptcy proceedings"
proper, and between supervisory jurisdiction in a summary
way in matter of law, and jurisdiction by appeal or writ of
error. Appellate jurisdiction over controversies, as in other
cases, is vested by section 24a, and over certain designated
bankruptcy proceedings by section 25a, by appeal, as in equity
cases, bringing up both law and fact.
The question before us arises on a petition to revise certain
proceedings in a court of bankruptcy of the Territory of
Oklahoma. That Territory by order of this court, as required by law, was assigned in 1891 to the Eighth Judicial
Circuit, (139 U. S. 707,) and the courts of the Territory were
thereby brought within the appellate jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals for that circuit.
By the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, that jurisdiction
embraced the review of the judgments, orders and decrees of
the Supreme Courts of the Territories in cases in which the
judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeals were made final
by that act, but in other cases the jurisdiction remained in
this court. Shute v. Keyser, 149 U. S. 649.
Then came the bankruptcy law making the District Courts
of the Territories courts of bankruptcy, and providing that
their proceedings as such might be revised by the Circuit
1. Where the amount in controversy exceeds the sum of two thousand
dollars, and the question involved is one which might have been taken on
appeal or writ of error from the highest court of a State to the Supreme
Court of the United States; or
2. Where some justice of the Supreme Court of the United States shall
certify that in his opinion the determination of the question or questions
involved in the allowance or rejection of such claim is essential to a uniform
construction of this act throughout the United States.
c. Trustees shall not be required to give bond when they take appeals
or sue out writs of error.
d. Controversies may be certified to the Supreme Court of the United
States from other courts of the United States, and the former court may
exercise jurisdiction thereof and issue writs of certiorari pursuant to the
provisions of the United States laws now in force or such as may be hereafter enacted.

HIJO v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S:

Syllabus.

Courts of Appeals within whose jurisdiction they happened
to be.
We think the law should be taken as it is written, .and perceive no adequate reason for concluding that the real intention of Congress is not expressed in the language used. Congress may well have believed it wisest that the Circuit Courts
of Appeals should deal in this summary way with questions
of law arising in the progress of bankruptcy proceedings, in
the territorial courts, although jurisdiction by appeal or writ
of error, and by appeal, as provided, was vested in the Supreme Courts of the Territories.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fift Circuit has
announced the same conclusion, In re Seebold, 105 Fed. Rep.
910, 914, as has the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, Ex parte
Stumpff, 9 Oklahoma, 639. A different view appears to have
been entertained by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit in In re Blair, 106 Fed. Rep. 662, though apparently the case did not necessarily require the precise question to be passed on.
Question answered in the affirmative.

J. RIBAS

y

HiIJO v. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT
No. 151.

OF PORTO RICO.

Submitted April 28, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

Under ยง 35 of the act of April 12, 1900, this court can review on writ of
error a final judgment of the District Court of the United States for Porto
Rico, where the amount in dispute exceeds $5,000, and a final judgment
in a like case in the Supreme Court of one of the Territories of the United
States could be reviewed by this court.
An action which could be brought under the Tucker Act against the United
States in either a District or a Circuit Court of the United States is within
the cognizance of the District Court of the United States of Porto Rico.
Quere, and not decided, whether a foreign corporation can maintaia any

