OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

CHANDLER v. DIX.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN

DISTRICT

OF MICHIGAN.

No. 261. Argued April 28, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.
An action cannot be maintained in the Federal courts to set aside tax sales
on the ground that the sales are void, where the property has been bought,
,and is claimed, by the State without making the State a party, and where
there is no statutory provision permitting such an action it cannot be
maintained against the State under the Eleventh Amendment.
A state statute providing for the procedure in, and naming the officials who
are necessary parties to, actions to set aside tax sales the language whereof
clearly indicates that the legislature contemplated that such actions should
only be brought in the courts of the State, will not be construed as permitting such actions to be brought in the Federal courts.
An action to enjoin the enforcement of tax liens cannot be maintained
against a state official who has retired from office.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. John A. McKay and Mr. George W. Weadock for appellant.
Mr. John H. Goff, with whom Mr. CharlesA. Blair, Attorney
General of the State of Michigan, and Mr. Henry E. Chase
were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This bill is not artificially drawn, but we take it to be primarily, at least, a bill to remove a cloud upon the plaintiff's title
to certain lands which have been sold for taxes, brought upon
the ground that the tax laws of Michigan for a series of years
named were unconstitutional and deprived the plaintiff of his
property contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill on demurrer and the plaintiff

CHANDLER v. DIX.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

appealed. The dismissal was so plainly right that it is less
necessary than otherwise it might be to pick out and analyze
the meagre allegations of fact from the much more lengthy
suggestions and arguments of matter of law. It is to be
gathered that all of the lands referred to have been sold, and
that in some, if not all, cases the State was the purchaser under
the state laws. It does not appear that the State has sold
to any one else, or that, if it has, the purchaser is a. party to
the bill. It does appear that the State claims title and, it
would seem, possession of a large part, if not all, of the lands.
It does not appear by sufficient allegations that any defendant
claims either possession or title.
It is obvious, without going further, that the bill cannot be
maintained. The Auditor General and County Treasurer
claim no interest in the land and have none. in the question
whether the State's title is good. The State's title, so far as
appears, is the only one assailed. The State, therefore, is a
necessary party, Burrill v. Auditor General, 46 Michigan, 256,
and, as this suit cannot be maintained against a State, the bill,
so far as it seeks to have tax sales declared void, must be dismissed, whether it be admitted that Michigan is not represented, or be said that it is represented by the Auditor General.
The plaintiff relies upon the Public Acts bf Michigan, 1899,
adt 97, adding ยง 144 to the general tax law of 1893. That
act provides that "the Auditor General shall be made a party
defendant to all actions or proceedings instituted for the purpose of setting aside any sale or sales for delinquent taxes on
lands held as-state tax lands, or which have been sold as such,
or which have been sold at annual tax sales, or for purpose of
setting aside any taxes returned to him and for which sale has
not been made." But we are of opinion that if the foregoing
words otherwise would apply to this case they should not be
construed as expressing a waiver by the State of its constitutional immunity from suit in a United States Court. The
provisions indicate that the legislature had in mind only
proceedings in the courts of the State. A copy of the corn-

OCTOBER TERM. 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

plaint is to be served upon the prosecuting attorney, who is
to send a copy thereof within five day, to the Auditor General,
and this is to be in lieu of service of process. It then is left to
the discretion of the Auditor General to cause the Attorney
General to represent him, and it is provided that in such suits
no costs shall be taxed. These provisions with regard to procedure and costs show that the statute is dealing with a matter
supposed to, remain under state control. Of course, a taxpayer denied rights secured to him by the Constitution and
laws of the United States, and specially set up by him, could
bring the case here by writ of error from the highest courts
of the State. *But the statute does not warrant the beginning
of a suit in the Federal court to set aside the title of the State.
Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 436, 445.
It is true that the statute deals also with suits for setting
aside taxes for which sales have not been made, and that apart
from the statute, injunctions against officers proceeding unconstitutionally under color of their office are well known.
Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1; Fargo v. Hart, decided
at this term. It is true also that while the prayers of the bill
are directed mainly to the setting aside -of conveyances supposed to have been made before the filing of the bill, there is
also a prayer that the defendants be enjoined from levying
taxes on the landg, from selling them, or from taking further
proceedings under the said laws. It seems to be.the practice
in Michigan to continue to assess lands sold for taxes while in
the hands of the State, for reasons which are easily understood
but do not need to be explained. It is unnecessary to consider whether an injunction could--be granted against this
without disposing of the title alleged by the State or whether
sufficient foundation is laid for the prayer in the vague allega-

tions of the bill. It is enough to say that, as the defendant
Dix has retired from office, the bill must be dismissed. It
does not appear upon fhe record that any amendment was
sought to be made or that, if one had been offered, it could
have been allowed, Warner Valley Stock Co. v. Smith, 165

SHfXAW v. CITY OF COVINGTON.
194

Argument for Appellants.

' .

'0 vl; 28. The case was disposed of properly by the Circuit
Court, on the foregoing grounds. Therefore the merits cannot

be discussed.
Decree affirmed.

SHA W v. CITY OF COVINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No.

246.

Argued April 22, 25, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.

Corporations having consolidated under a state statute providing that on
the recording of the agreement the separate existence of the constituent
corporations should cease and become a single corporation subject to the
provisions of that law, and other laws relating to such a corporation, and
should be vested with all the property, business, credits, assets and
effects of the constituent companies, and one of the corporations claimed
to possess an exclusive franchise to furnish water to a city under which
the city could not for a period erect its own works, and the constitution
and laws of the State at the time of the consolidation, but passed after
the franchise was granted, prohibited the. granting of such exclusive
privileges.
Held that on the consolidation the orginial corporations disappeared and
the franchises of the consolidated corporation were left to be determined
by the general law as it existed at the time of the consolidation and the
corporation did not succeed to the right of the original company to exclude the city from erecting its own plant.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Miller Outcalt and Mr. Alfred C. Cassatt, with whom
Mr. Richard P. Ernst was on the brief, for appellants:
The consolidation carried the exclusive franchise to the new
company. 2 Clark & Marshall, ยง 355a; Phila. & Wil. R. R.
v. Maryland, 16 How. 376; New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana
Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; Citizens' Ry. Co. v. Memphis, 53 Fed.
Rep. 713; Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens' Gas Co., 115 U. S.
683; New Orleans Water Co. v. Rivers, 115 U. S. 674.
VOL. cxciv.--.38

