HOOKER v. BURR.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

does not prevent her from claiming this land from defendant.
She selected the other land only after advising with the Indian
officer and upon his statement that it would not affect her
claim for the land she had previously selected and from which
she had been ordered by the officers of the Government. She
has never received any patent from the Government for this
other land, and nothing further need be done by her in order
to authorize the Government to cancel the allotment for this
other land at the time when patent issues for the original selection.
We find no error in the judgment, and it is
Affirmed.

HOOKER v. BURR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 203. Submitted April 26, 1904.-+-Decided May 16, 1904.
A party insisting upon the invalidity of a statute as. violating any constitutional provision must show that he may be injured hy the unconstitutional law before the courts will listen to his complaint.
An independent purchaser at a foreclosure sale, who has no other connection
with the mortgage, cannot question the validity of legislation existing at
the time. of his.purchase on the ground that it impaired a contract, even
though the law complained of was passed after the execution of the
mortgage which was foreclosed. Insurance Co. v. Cushman, 108 U. S.
51, -followed, and Barnitz v. Beverly, 163 U. S. 118, distinguished.
Whether the requirements of a statute affecting foreclosure sales and redemption, and which does not conflict with the Federal Constitution have
been complied with, is not a Federal question.
THE plaintiff in error commenced this action in the proper
state court to procure a decree cancelling a deed of the premises mentioned in the complaint, executed by the defendant
Hammel to the defendant Rhodes, and' also directing that a
deed should be executed to the plaintiff by defendant Hammel

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

or Burr, or both, conveying the same property to the plaintiff,
which had been purchased by him under the sale in foreclosure
hereinafter mentioned. Defendant Burr was sheriff at the
time pf that sale, and conducted the same and executed the
certificate of sale June 13, 1898. His term of office expired in
January, 1899, and defendant Hammel became his successor,
and as such executed the deed to defendant Rhodes, which
plaintiff in error asks to have set aside. The two defendants,
Burr and Hammel, were made parties herein because it was
not certain which one of them should be decreed to execute
the deed to plaintiff which he asks for in this suit.
The defendants by their answer denied many of the material
allegations of the corriplaint, and the case went to trial before
the court, and a judgment having been entered dismissing the
complaint on the merits, an appeal, was taken to the Supreme
Court of California, which affirmed the judgment, 137 California, 663, and the plaintiff has brought the case here. The
material facts are as follows:
On October 16, 1893, Anna P. and Ambrose H. Spencer,
then being the- owners of the, property, mortgaged the same
to one Jacob Swiggart, to secure the payment of a promissory
note of the same date for $5,000. This note and mortgage
were subsequently assigned by Swiggart to Charles H. Bishop,
who afterwards commenced a suit upon the note and mortgage
to recover the amount due on the former and to foreclose the
mortgage. On May 14, 1898, a judgment was entered in the
case, whereby it was adjudged that there was due to the plaintiff upon the note the sum of $6,782.49, and that the same was
a lien upon the mortgaged premises, and there was also a judgment for the sale of the premises to obtain payment of the sum
found due on the note. On May 16, 1898, an execution upon
the judgment was issued to the sheriff, (Burr,) and on June 13,
1898, he sold to the plaintiff in error, Hooker, the mortgaged
premises for the sum of $9,500, who thereupon paid the amount
of his bid to Burr, and Burr then gave a certificate of sale'to
the plaintiff as the purchaser. Plaintiff alleges that he was

HOOKER v. BURR.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

entitled to a deed from the sheriff of date December 13, 1898,
that being six months after his purchase at the foreclosure
sale. On December 12, 1898, Rhodes, one of the defendants,
(who was a judgment creditor of Spencer, the mortgagor,)
issued an execution on his judgment and assumed to redeem
the land from the foreclosure sale by the payment of $10,070
to the sheriff, to be paid to the purchaser, the plaintiff in error,
being the amount of the purchase price paid by the latter at
the foreclosure sale, together with interest thereon at the rate
of one per cent per month. The sum was received by the
sheriff as the full amount due to the plaintiff in error on his
bid, with interest. The plaintiff in error declined to accept
the money, and now contends that the amount delivered to the
sheriff for the redemption was not enough, and he also makes
the claim that there was never any legal payment to the sheriff,
even of the sum mentioned. The sheriff, after receiving the
redemption money, executed a deed to the judgment creditor,
Rhodes, and it is this deed which plaintiff seeks to have set
aside.
At the time when the above mentioned mortgage was executed, on October 16, 1893, the law -in California provided that
a judgment debtor or redemptioner might redeem the property
'from the purchaser at the foreclosure sale, at any time within
six months after the sale, on paying the purchaser the amount
of his purchase money with interest at two per cent a month
thereon in addition up to the time of redemption. On March 27,
1895, the legislature altered this statute, which was section 702
of the Code of Civil Procedure, by providing that redemption
might be made upon the payment of the amount of the purchase money with one per cent a month as interest thereon,
and on February 26, 1897, the same section was again amended
by the legislature by extending the time for redemption to
twelve instead bf six months, while keeping the rate of interest
at one per cent per month on the amount of the purchase price
.paid at the sale.
It will be noticed that both these amendments had been
VOL. cxciv-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

enacted and existed as the law in regard to redemptions at the
time when the sale was made on June 13, 1898, upon the foreclosure of the mortgage.
Mr. J. S. Chapman for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. H. Anderson and Mr. E. C. Bower for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the above statement

of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error contends that the several alterations
of the law as it existed at the time when this mortgage was
executed, regarding the time of redemption and the amount
of interest payable to the purchaser at the foreclosure sale in
order to redeem the land sold, impair the obligation of a contract as to all mortgages in existence before the alterations
were made.
The first inquiry is, Whose contract was impaired by the
alteration of the law? It is seen that the amount due on the
mortgage in question at the time of the sale upon foreclosure
was $6,782.49, and that the property sold for $9,500. That
amount was paid by flhe purchaser to the sheriff and it resulted
in the payment of the mortgage debt, principal and interest,
and the release of the land from the lien of the mortgage.
Subsequently to that payment the mortgagee had no interest
in further proceedings. Neither the mortgagee nor his assignee
was the purchaser at the sale, and neither was in any manner
injured by the alterations of the law in the respects mentioned.
If, therefore, there was by this legislation an impairment of
the obligation of a contract between the mortgagor and the
mortgagee, which the latter could have taken advantage of
if injurod thereby, it is perfectly clear that he is not in the least
injured when, by the sale under his mortgage, he realizes the
full amount of his debt, principal, interest and costs. What

HOOKER v. BURR.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

can he complain of under such circumstances, even conceding
an abstract impairment of the obligation of his contract?
Having realized and been paid in full the entire amount of
money called for by his mortgage, he surely cannot be heard
to complain that nevertheless the obligation of his contract
was impaired. If not injured to the extent of a penny thereby,
his abstract rights are unimportant.
We have lately held (therein following a long line of authorities) that a party insisting upon the invalidity of a statute,
as violating any constitutional provision, must show that he
may be injured by the unconstitutional law before the courts
will listen to his complaint. Tyler v. Judges. &c., 179 U. S.
405; Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S. 51, 60. If, instead of showing
any injury, the plaintiff shows that he cannot possibly be injured, he cannot of course ask the interference of the court.
Therefore, if the mortgagee, or his assignee, were himself the
plaintiff, and complaining that the obligation of his contract
had been impaired by subsequent legislation, it is plain his
complaint would be dismissed when it- appeared that, notwithstanding the alleged subsequent illegal legislation, he suffered no injury, because he had proceeded with the foreclosure
of his mortgage and had been paid the full amount of his contract debt, interest and costs. Under such circumstances the
question becomes a moot one, and courts do not sit to decide
that character of question. American Book Company v. Kansas, 193 U. S. 49; Jones v. Montague, ante, p. 147, decided
April 25, 1904.
The question of the impairment of the mortgage contract,
therefore, is not before us, as between mortgagor and mortgagee.
We are of opinion that, as to the plaintiff in error, an independent purchaser at the foreclosure sale, having no connection
whatever with the original contract between the mortgagor
and mortgagee, his rights are to be determined by the law as
it existed at the time he became a purchaser, unless upon
action taken by the mortgagee the. property had been sold

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

under a decree providing that it should be sold without regard
to the subsequent legislation which impaired his contract.
The purchaser bought at the time when the law as-altered was
in operation, and, so far as he was concerned, it was a valid
law; his contract was made under that law, and it is no business of his whether the original contract between the mortgagor and mortgagee was impaired or not by the subsequent
legislation. He cannot be heard to contend that the original
law applies to him, because-a subsequent statute might be
void as to some one else. The some one else might waive its
illegality or consent to its enforcement, or the question might
have no importance, because the property sold for enough to
pay the debt, even though there was an abstract impairment
of the obligation of his contract.
The purchaser must found his rights upon the law as it,
existed when he purchased. An alteration after he had purchased, to his prejudice, would be a different thing. Cooley
on Const. Limitations (4th ed.), 356. We agree that the law
existing when a mortgage is made enters into and becomes a
part of the contract, but that contract has nothing to do, so
far as this question is concerned, with the contract of a purchaser at a foreclosure sale having no other connection with
the mortgage than that of a purchaser at such sale. His rights
regarding' matters of redemption are to be determined as we
have stated.
It has been so decided in the case of Connecticut Mutual Life
Insurance Co. v. Cushman, 108 U. S. 51. There the property
was sold at foreclosure sale for enough to pay the mortgage
debt (page 56),_ and the reduction of the rate of interest which
was payable to the purchaser at the foreclosure sale, upon a
redemption, (which reduction was made by the legislature
prior to the sale, although subsequently to the mortgage,) was
held valid. The company, as purchaser at the foreclosure sale,
bid enough to pay the principal and interest of its debt, and
after the purchase it contended that the attempted redemption was insufficient because the interest upon the amount it

HOOKER v. BURR.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had bid upon the sale had been computed at eight per cent,
the rate of interest allowed by law at the time of the sale, instead of ten per cent, the rate existing at the time of the execution of the mortgage. It was held that as to the purchaser the
rate existing at the time of the sale was the legal rate and the
redemption at that rate was valid. The principle of that case
decides the one at bar.
It is asserted, however, on the part of the plaintiff in error
that Barnitz v. Beverly, 163 U. S. 118, has in effect overruled
the former case, and that upon the principle decided. in the
Barnitz case the plaintiff in error herein is entitled to a reversal
of the judgment. We are not of that opinion.
In the first place, it was distinctly stated in Barnitz v. Beverly
that it was not inconsistent with and did not overrule the former
case, and its facts show a clear distinction between the two
cases. The sum bid at the foreclosure sale did not pay the
amount due on the mortgage, and the whole case shows that,
although the mortgagee became purchaser, the debt of the
mortgagor was not thereby paid, and it was the mortgagee's
rights under her contract, as contained in the mortgage, and
not her rights as a purchaser at the foreclosure sale, that were
in controversy.
In the Cushman case, on the contrary, the amount bid at the
foreclosure sale paid the mortgage debt, and the subsequent
position of the mortgagee was as a purchaser only. The
Barnitz case was decided distinctly upon the ground that, by
the subsequent legislation, there was an impairment of the
obligation of the contract between the mortgagor and the
mortgagee, and it was her rights as mortgagee that were passed
upon and recognized by the court. This is plain from a perusal of the opinion, especially at pages 130 and 131.
Attention-is also called by plaintiff in error to a portion of
the opinion in which it is stated that, "Without pursuing the
subject further, we hold that a statute which authorizes the
redemption of property sold upon foreclosure of a mortgage,
where no right of redemption previously existed, or which

OCTO13ER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 V. S.

extends the period of redemption beyond the time formerly
allowed, cannot constitutionally apply to a sale under a mortgage executed before its passage." And it is asserted that
such a case is now before the court.
These remarks must be interpreted in the light of the facts
of that case and must be limited in their application to the
parties to the mortgage contract whose rights are impaired by
subsequent legislation. If the mortgage had been forecloses
and the mortgagee had thereby realized his debt, principal and
interest in full,, upon the sale, there can be no doubt that he
would not have been heard to assert the invalidity of the subsequent legislation, nor would an independent purchaser at
the sale have been heard to make the same complaint. Of
course, this does not include the case of a mortgagee who purchases at the foreclosure sale and bids a price sufficient to pay
his mortgage debt in full with interest, and an action thereafter
commenced against him to set aside the sale because it was
made in violation of legislation subsequent to the mortgage.
In such case we suppose there can be no doubt of the right of
the mortgagee to assert, as a defence to the action, the unconstitutionality of the subsequent legislation as an impairment
of his contract contained in the mortgage. But it may be
said that where the legal or equitable rights of a party are not
in any way touched and he is in no way injured, he cannot be
heard to complain of the impairment of the obligation of his
contract, as' a mere abstract proposition.
Many of the earlier cases declare the invalidity of subsequent
laws in regard to redemption of land sold under execution,
which altered the law existing when a mortgage was made,
and some of them, it would seem, have declared the laws unconstitutional, even at the suit of a purchaser at the sale.
The leading case on the subject of redemption decides nothing
as to the rights of a purchaser. It is that of Bronson v. Kinzie,
1 How. 311. In that case the subsequent legislation, which
was held to be invalid, gave twelve months after sale in which
to redeem, and provided that the property should not be. sold

HOOKER v. BURR.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under the foreclosure decree unless two-thirds of the amount
which had previously been established by appraisers as the
value of the property should be bid at the sale. Th case came
before the court upon a division of opinion. Bronson, the
mortgagee, filed his bill to foreclose the mortgage, and asked
for a decree that the mortgaged premises-should be sold to
the highest bidder without being subject to the rule established by the subsequent legislation. The motion was resisted
on the part of defendants, who moved that the decree should
direct the sale according to the subsequent legislation, and the
judges were opposed in opinion as to the sale of the premises
without regard to the subsequent law. This court held that
the subsequent law was plainly one which impaired the obligation of the contract between the mortgagor and the mortgagee,
and at the request of the mortgagee and to prevent the impairment of the obligation of his contract the court decreed
that the sale should be made without reference to the law
passed subsequently to the time of the execution of the mortgage contract.
McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How. 608, arose in the same way
and was decided substantially upon the authority of the last
case. The mortgagee made the same request, that the marshal
should sell the property without regard to the statute of
Illinois passed subsequently to the execution of the mortgage,
and it was held that his motiofi should be granted, because
the subsequent legislation impaired his contract as mortgagee
with the mortgagor.
In Gantley v. Ewin, 3 How. 707, after the mortgage had
been executed, the legislature passed an act which required
on sales upon execution isstled upon a judgment, that the
property should first be appraised and should not thereafter
be sold on execution for a sum less than one-half the appraised
value. The mortgagee foreclosed the mortgage, and upon the
sale the premises were sold to the defendants for $76, not a
tenth part of the mortgage debt. The property had not been
valued prior to the sale, as required by the statute. An act

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

had, however, been passed prior to the execution of the mortgage requiring the sheriff on such sales to-first offer the rents
and profits of the real estate for a term of seven years, and if
the same did riot bring enough to satisfy the execution, then
the fee simple was to be offered for sale and sold. This. offer
to sell the rents and profits was not in fact made. There were
two questions upon which the judges were opposed, the one
as to the effect of the failure to make the offer to sell the rents
and profits, and the other regarding the effect of the failure
to make the appraisal. A certificate of division of opinion
was sent to this court. The action was, as stated in the
opinion, one of ejectment, the defendants setting up and
claiming under the sheriff's deed, and the plaintiff, the mortgagee, asking the court to instruct the 'jury that the deed was
void because the rents and profits had not been offered for sale
before the fee simiple was sold, and also because the land had
not been valued as required by the statute before the sale was
made. The mortgagee was thus the party claiming that the
sale under his own foreclostire was void because of the failure
to comply with the subsequent legislation of Indiana, while
the defendants who bid at the sale and became the purchasers
of the land insisted that the act (exisfing when they purchased)
was unconstitutional, because it altered the law as it existed
when the mdrtgage was made, and required that the land
should not be sold until it had been appraised, and then only
after at least one-half of -the value so appraised had been bid.
This court held that the offer to sell the rents and profits for
seven years, as provided for by the statute existing prior to
the execution of the mortgage, should have been made, and
that the sale, such offer not having been made, was void, but
it held that the condition provided foi in the later statute of
not selling unless the appraisal had taken place, and more than
one-half such appraised value had thereafter been bid, wa*
void as an impairment of the obligation of' the contract between
the mortgagor and the mortgagee, and the deed of the sheriff
could not, so far as that ground was concerned, 1b avoided,

HOOKER v. BURR.
194 U. S.

Opinion of te Court.

although no valuation of the property was made .before the
sale. The case was decided, as the opinion shows, entirely
upon the authority of Bronson v. Kinzie, supra, which, as
we have seen, was not a case of a purchaser and was decided
upon the prayer of the mortgagee, who contended that his
contract contained in his mortgage would be impaired by the
subsequent law if the court should permit it to be enforced.
The question again arose in Howard v. Bugbee, 24 How. 461,
and that case was also decided upon the authority of Bronson
v. Kinzie, supra. In the statement of facts, by Mr. Justice
Nelson, it appears that the mortgage by Parsons to Tait was
executed in 1836, and in a subsequent year (1842) the law
regarding redemption was altered, and a right was-given to a
judgment creditor to redeem for two years after a sale under
a mortgage. The mortgage was foreclosed in 1848, and
Howard, the appellant, became the purchaser of the premises
at the sale under the decree of foreclosure, and obtained a deed
of the same duly executed by the proper officer. Bugbee, the
appellee, the plaintiff in the court below, recovered judgment
against the estate of the mortgagor in 1843, and thereafter,
pursuant to the altered law, tendered the purchase money,
interest and charges to Howard, the purchaser, and asked for
a deed of the land, which was refused. A bill was filed in the
court of chancery in Alabama by Bugbee to compel Howard
to receive the money in redemption of the sale and execute. a
deed. The defence was that the mortgage from Parsons, under
which the defendant derived title as purchaser at the fore-.
closure sale, having been executed before the passage of the
act providing for the redemption, the act, as respects this debt,
was inoperative and void as impairing the obligation of a contract. Now here was a case where the purchase was made at
the foreclosure sale six years after the law had been enacted
providing for redemption, and the question was raised, not by
the mortgagor or the mortgagee, but by the purchaser at the
sale. The Alabama court of chancery held that complainant
was not entitled to the relief asked, and dismissed the bill, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

the Supreme Court of .that State upon appeal reversed the
decree of the court of chancery and entered a decree for the
complainant. Upon writ of error from this court it was here
decided that the act of the legislature was invalid as an impairment of the mortgage contract, upon the authority of
Bronson v. Kinzie, supra, which had never decided the particular question.
Upon principle, we cannot see how an independent purchaser, having no connection whatever with the mortgage,
excepting as he becomes such purchaser at the foreclosure sale,
can raise the question in his own behalf in relation to the
validity of legislation as to redemption and rate of interest
which existed at the time he made his purchase, and this question, we think, has been clearly determined against the purchaser in the case of Insurance Company v. Cushman, supra.
We have no disposition to revise the decision in that case,
which, we think, was correct and stands upon a firm foundation. The later case of Barnitz v. Beverly, supra, when the
facts therein are regarded, does not militate against the soundhess of the views expressed in the Cushman case, and in addition to that it was distinctly so stated in the opinion of the
court. If a sale be made under a decree directing that it be
without regard to the subsequent legislation, as in Bronson v.
Kinzie, supra, then the purchaser, buying under the decree
with those specific directions, takes his rights thereunder. But
in that case the decree is obtained in the interest and at the
request of the mortgagee, and to save the impairment of his
contract.
In our view this independent purchaser must, under the facts
herein, abide by the law as it stood at the time of his purchase.
A further question is made by plaintiff,in error, that there
was no proper tender made.
Holding the views we do in regard to the main question, it
follows that the amount of the bid made by the purchaser
carried interest at the rate of one per cent per month only.
If that amount at that rate of interest was tendered the sheriff,

CAU v. TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. CO.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

it was sufficient. The state court has found that such amount
was paid to the sheriff by a check which was subsequently
paid. Whether the defendant Rhodes fully complied with
the requirements of the state statute in order to make a complete tender, is not a Federal question.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California is
Affirmed.

CAU v. TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 57. Argued April 8, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.
While primarily the responsibility of a common carrier is that expressed
by the common law and the shipper may insist upon such resptnsibility,
he may consent to a limitation of it, and so long as there is no stipulation
for an exemption which is not just and reasonable in the eye of the law
the responsibility may be modified by contract. It is not necessary
that an alternative contract be presented to the shipper for his choice.
A bill of lading is a contract and knowledge of its contents by the shipper
will be presumed and a provision therein against liability for damages
by fire is not unjust or unreasonable. It is not necessary that there be an
independent consideration apart from that expressed in the bill of lading
to support a reasonable stipulation of exemption from liability.
While the burden may be on the carrier to show that the damage resulted
from the excepted cause, after that has been shown the burden is on the
plaintiff to show that it occurred by the carrier's own negligence from
which it could not be exempted.

THIS is an action to recover the value of cotton delivered
by plaintiff to defendant, to be transported over its railroad
from Texarkana, Texas, to New Orleans. The cotton was
destroyed by fire while in the custody of defendant.
The action was originally brought in the Civil District Court
of the Parish of Orleans and removed on the petition of defendant to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana. The case was tried to a jury,

