OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

tice of the Post Office Department, covering a period of sixteen
years and more, need not be regarded in this case, although the
construction of the statute in question is admitted to be doubtful. We cannot give our assent to this view.

PACIFIC ELECTRIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. LOS ANGELES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
N0o.175. Argued March 7, 1904.-Decided April 11, 1904.
'he jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is established when it is shown that
complainant had, or claimed to have a contract with a State or municipality which the latter had attempted to impair, and so long as the claim
is apparently made in good faith and is not frivolous, the case can be
heard, and decided on the merits.
Whether presented on motion to dismiss or on demurrer the question of
jurisdiction depends primarily on the allegations of the bill and not upon
the facts as they may subsequently turn out.
Under the act of California of Match 11, 1901, a street railway franchise can
only be granted in case of failure of the successful bidder to comply with
the provisions of the act as to payment within the prescribed period to
the next highest bidder at the original competitive opening of bids, and
an ordinance attempting to grant the franchise to another is void and the
grantee acquires no rights thereunder, nor is such an ordinance a contract within the meaning of the impairment of contract clause of the
Federal Constitution.

is an appeal directly from the ,Circuit Court.

The
appellant asserts rights under the Constitution of the United
States, in that a contract alleged to exist between it and the
council of the city of Los Angeles, granting appellant a franchise under the statute hereinafter mentioned, was impaired
by the action of the council. Also that the property of appellant was taken without due process of law.
THIS

PACIFIC ELECTRIC RY. CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
194 U, S.

113

Statement of the Case.

By an act of the legislature of the State of California, passed
March 11, 1901, (Statutes of California, Extra Session Thirtythird Legislature, 1900, p. 265,) it is provided that every
franchise or privilege to operate street railroads upon the
public streets or highways, shall not be granted by the respective governing bodies of any'city and county, city or
town, except upon certain conditions, to wit, the applicant
for the franchise must file with "the governing or legislative
body" any application, and thereupon said body may, in its
disicretion, if the application be accompanied by a petition
signed by the owners of three-fourths of the frontage of the
real property fronting along and upon the route of the franchise applied for, advertise the fact of the application and that
it (the governing body) proposes to grant the same. The
advertisement must be in some newspaper published gin the
municipality wherein the franchise is to be exercised, and must
state that bids will be received for such franchise, and that it
will be awarded to the highest bidder. The advertisement
nmust state a number of other matters, but as no point is made
upon them they are omitted.
In pursuance of the statute appellant made application to
the council of the city of Los Angeles for an electric street railroad franchise. The application was referred to the board of
public works, which board. recommended the franchise be
offered for sale. The report was adopted by the council and
the franchise was offered for sale, and notice thereof was given
as required by the statute. The notice given was very full and
circumstantial, but its contents are immaterial to the views we
take of the case.
Bids were received by the council on February 10, 1902.
Appellant bid $25,000; W. S. Hook, who, it is alleged, was
president of the Los Angeles Traction Company, bid $37,500;
E'. A. Davis, one of the appellees, bid $139,000, and E. Murray
bid $115,000. There were no other bids.
Sect tin 5 of the act of 1901 provides that at the time of
opening of the bids any responsible firm or corporation present
YOT.. ('Xciv-

OCT01BER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

or represented may bid for the franchise or privilege a sum not
less than ten per cent above the highest sealed bid therefor,
and said bid so made may be raised ten per cent by any responsible bidder present, and said franchise or privilege finally
be struck off, sold and granted by said governing body to the
highest bidder therefor, in gold coin of the United States, who
shall deposit with the "governing body," or such person as it
shall direct, the amount bid within twenty-four hours thereafter. In case of failure to do so "then the said franchise or
privilege shall be granted to the next highest bidder therefor."
No person raising the bid of E. Murray, in accordance with
section five, his bid was accepted, and it was ordered that said
franchise be struck off and sold to said Murray, and the city
treasurer was ordered and directed to receive the money therefor. It was further ordered that the period of twenty-four
hours within which he was allowed to pay for the franchise
should expire at 3.15 P. M.on February 11, 1902.
The bids of Hook, Davis and Murray were all made on behalf
of the Los Angeles Traction Company and for its benefit, and
with the fraudulent intent of preventing competition and
further bidding when the bids should -be open, well knowing
that the franchise was not worth the sum of $415,000, and
that no advance on the shine was to be made. And it is
alleged that Murray has no financial standing, never intended
to pay his bid, and did not pay the same or offer to pay the
same within the time allowed, and never appeared again before
the council.
On February 11 the traction company and Davis and
Hook appeared before the council, and in pursuance of their
fraudulent scheme claimed that the council had no authority or power to do any other thing than to accept the bid
of Davis for $139,000, and demanded that the said franchise
be awarded to him. Such proceedings were had that the
council declared the bid of Murray to be fraudulent and void,
and the matter of the sale of the franchise was again taken up.
Appellant thereupon bid the sum of $152,000, and presented

PACIFIC ELECTRIC RY. CO.
194 U. S.

'.

LOS ANGELES.

115

Statement of the Case.

with its bid a certificate of deposit on one of the banks in the
city, drawn in the name of the city for said sum. Bids over
and above said bid were called for by the council, but none
was received, and the franchise was ordered to be sold and
struck off to appellant. The treasurer was also directed to
receive the purchase money, which was paid by appellant in
United States gold coin, and it was accepted by the treasurer and
the council. Appellant executed a bond in the sum of $25,000
as required by the statute; and the franchise was thereupon
struck off, sold and granted to appellant. Subsequently the
council passed an ordinance granting the said franchise to
appellant, and presented the same to the mayor of the city,
who returned the same to the council without his signature
or approval, and with his objections to the same. On February 21 the question came up before the council for the
passage of the ordinance, notwithstanding the veto of the
mayor. The ordinance was not passed, but the council passed
a resolution pretending and purporting to order any and all
bids to be rejected, and ordered the treasurer of the city to
refund to appellant the money paid and the clerk to return the
bond executed and filed by appellant-all of which was done
by the council under the pretense that the approval of the
mayor to the ordinance passed, as above stated, was necessary
to give it vlidity or to make effectual the grant made by the
city of the franchise to. appellant.
It is alleged that the council of the city, under the statute
of the State, had no discretion as to the bid of appellant, but
were, on the contrary, by the operation of said statute, ordered to strike off, sell and grant the franchise to appellant and
no ordinance was necessary to perfect the grant, and the mayor
was not authorized to perform any function in, about or concerning said franchise, and his veto was wholly unfounded;
and the title of the appellant became fully vested under the
statute, and there was no power in the mayor or the council,
or in both, to' in any manner affect the rights which had accrued to appellant by virtue of its franchise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

That appellant had become vested with the title to the franchise, and the orders and resolution of the council, pretending
to reconsider the order granting the franchise as above stated
and readvertising the application, were made without any
authority, and were intended to deprive appellant of its said
property without due process of law, in violation of the provision of the Constitution of the United States prohibiting any
State from depriving any person of life, liberty or property
without due process of law.
That under the statute, notice of sale and order granting the
franchise appellant was required to commence work for the
construction of the road within four months from February 11, 1902, and complete the same within three years
from that date. That appellant was and is desirous of commencing such consti'uction, but on February 26, 1902, the
council passed an order instructing the mayor, the street
superintendent and the chief of police to stop and prevent any
attempt appellant might make to construct said road upon
any of the streets with all the force at their command, and said
officers, acting under such instructions, will undertake by
violence to prevent appellant from constructing said road or
exercising any rights under its franchise, or for any enjoyment
of its property so acquired unless prevented by the court
(Circuit Court).
That if the city should sell said franchise, rights and privileges again it will ai(1 the l)urchaser, with the police force of the
city, to take possession of the city property, rights and franchises, and construct a road over and along said route, and to
oust and exclude appellant therefrom, and appellant will be
compelled to resort to a multiplicity of suits to protect an(!
defend its rights, privileges and franchise purchased by it, and
its right to exercise and enjoy the same, and appellant will
suffer great and irreparable damage, which cannot be compensated in money.
The relief prayed is that appellant be declared the owner in

fee simple of the rights and frmnchise described; that the orders

PACIFIC ELECTRIC RY. CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
'194 U. S.

117

Opinion of the Court.

of the council, reconsidering the order selling and granting
the same, and all of the proceddings of the council subsequent
thereto, be rescinded and vacated, and the appellees be restrained from preventing appellant from constructing the road
and exercising the rights, privileges and franchise granted.
The city of Los Angeles and the appellees composing its
council demurred to the bill. The other appellees also demurred, and the grounds of demurrer, were among others, that
the court had no jurisdiction of the subject matter of the suit
and the bill was without equity. The Circuit Court overruled
the demurrers on the first ground and sustained them on the
second. 118 Fed. Rep. 746.
Mr. J. S. Chapman, with whom Messrs. Hiunsaker & Britt,
Messrs. Works & Lee and Messrs. Dunn & Crutcher were on
the brief, for appellant.

Mr. W. B. Mathews, with whom Mr. Jonathan R. Scott was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the. court.
1. The jurisdictional question first demands consideration. It
will be observed that rights under the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States were explicitly asserted. Besides, the Circuit Court treated the bill also as
presenting for consideration rights under the contract clause
of the Constitution awd entertained jurisdiction of the ease on
the authority of Riverside &c. Ry.v. Rirerside, 1IS Fed. Rep.736.

In City Railway Co. v. Citizvens' Railroad Co., 166 U. S.557,
the railroad company occupied certain streets of the (ity of
Indianapolis under ordinances of the city. Subsequently the
city, in pursuance of an act of the General Assembly of the
State, gave the City Railway perlilission to tay its track on
some of the same streets which were occupied by the railroad
eompany. The latter brought suit in the Circuit Court of the

OCTOBER TER*, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 1.S.

United States for the District of Indiana against the railway
company, to enjoin it from availing itself of the privilege
attempted to be granted. The court granted the relief prayed
for and the case was brought here directly. A question of the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was raised, and replying to
it we said: "All that is necessary to establish the jurisdiction
of the court is to show that the complainant had, or claimed
in good faith to have, a contract with the city, which the latter
had attempted to impair." And it was further observed
whether the contract was or was not impaired could not be
passed upon "on the motion to dismiss so long as the complainant claimed in its bill that it had that effect, and such
claim was apparently made in good faith, and was not a
frivolous one." This view was repeated in Illinois Central
Railroad Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28.
In those cases the question of jurisdiction was presented on
motion to dismiss. In the case at bar it is presented by
demurrer, but, however presented, jurisdiction depends primarily upon the allegations of the bill, not upon the facts as they
may subsequently turn out, City Railway Co. v. Citizens'
R'd Co., supra, nor upon. the actual sufficiency, in the opinion
of the court, of the facts alleged to justify the relief prayed
for. We do not mean, however, that a mere claim in words
is sufficient-a substantial controversy must be presented.
This requirement is satisfied in the.case at bar. The Circuit
Court, therefore, had jurisdiction, and the case, was properly
brought here from that court, since it involves the construction
and application of the Constitution of the United States.
2. The claim of appellant is that the order of the city
council of February 11j 1902, granting the franchise to it,
appellant, constituted a contract, the obligation of which the
subsequent orders of the council impaired, and, further, deprIved appellant of its property without due processof law.
The question upon which the claim depends is, in our view,
a simple one. We need not quote the provision of the statute
applicable to the contentions of the appellees, that the notice

PACIFIC ELECTRIC RY. CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
194 U. S.

11.9

Opinion f the Court.

given of the sale of the franchise was insufficient, nor need we
discuss that contention or the contention that the approval of
the mayor of the city under the charter of the city and the
constitution of the State was necessary to a grant of franchises.
We will assume the contentions are untenable, and we will also
assume that all the steps preliminary to the bidding were rightfully taken and that the order of the council striking off and
selling to appellant the franchise was sufficient to vest title in
appellant if its bid was properly and legally accepted under
section 5 of the act of 1891. This narrows the question in the
case to the construction of that section.
The notice of an application for a franchise is required to
state that sealed bids will be received for the franchise "up to
a certain hour and day named therein," (sec. 3,) and also to
state that the franchise "will be granted to the person, firm
or corporation who shall make the highest cash bid therefor;"
and any bid may be raised not less than ten per cent "above
the highest sealed bid," and the franchise finally struck off,
sold and granted to the "highest bidder." (Sec. 5.) Section 5
also provides that the "successful bidder shall deposit with
said governing body, or such person as it may direct, the full
amount of his or its bid, within twenty-four hours thereafter;
and in case he or it shall fail so to do, then the said franchise or
privilege shall be granted to the next highest bidder therefor."
We italicize the pivotal words. To what do they refer? To
bids already made as contended by appellees or to a bid or bids
to be made as contended by appellant? More obviously the
former. They express the relation between bids in existencethose already made and pending before the council in pursuance of its notice. It is only in comparison with the next
highest of those that the words have signification.
But this construction, it is said, permits the fraud which the
bill alleges was practiced upon the city council. We cannot
say the argument is without force, but that fraud might be
attempted may have been considered and weighed by the
legislature. It may have been thought that in any plan of

OCTOBER TERM, 190-1.
194 U. S.

Syllabus.

competition which couldlbe devised there would be danger of
illegal combinations, and that the sLfeguard against them
must be the vigilance of the munieil)al officers, anl, may be,
that of competing ilnterests. But be this as it may, the defects
of the statute cannot control its pl:ain letter. Obviously to
give them such effect woul(d be to amend the statute, not to
interpret it. And we think section 5 is plain, and was intended
to express as an alternative of a bid not fulfilled the acceptance
of one already made, not one to be made. We are fortified in
this view by section 7 of the act. That sectiom provides that
the grantee of the franchise shall file a bond to fulfill the terms
and conditions of such franchise, and also provides that if such
bond be not filed "the award of such franchise shall be set
asidb and the same may be granted to the next lowest bidder,
or again offered for sale," in the discretion of the governing
body. In other words, when there is to be further competition
it is explicitly provided for.
It follows that appellant's bid was not the next highest to
that of Murray and the order of the council selling and granting
appellant the franchise was void, and the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing the bill is
Affirmed.

SLATER v. MEXICAN

NATIONAL
PANY.

RAILROAD COM-

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 162.

Argued February 29, 1904.-Decided April 11, 1904.

A common law action cannot be maintained in a Circuit Court of the United
States against a foreign railroad corporation for the wrongful killing in
a foreign country of one upon whomi the plaintiffs were dependent where
the right of recovery given by the foreigrn country is so dissimilar to that

given by the law of the State in which the action is brought as to be incapablc of enforcement in such State.

