OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY -COMPANY v. CARSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 546,

Siibmitted April 4, 1904.-Decided April 18, 1904.

In an action in which no application for removal to the Federal court was
made at any time, held that if-the right existed it furnished no defence to
the action on the merits in the state court.
In instructing the jury that railroads are required to keep their appliances
in good and suitable order, no right arising under the act of March 2,
1893, in respect of automatic couplers was denied nor was any such
specially set up or claimed within ยง 709, Rev. Stat.
CARSON, a 'resident of Greenville County, South Carolina,
brought this suit inthe Court of Common Pleas of that county
against the Southern Railway Company, a corporation chartered under the laws of the State of Virginia and engaged in
running trains through several States as a common carrier, and
J. C. Ai'wood and J. D. Miller, residents of Greenville County,
to recover damages for personal injuries, which, he charged in
his complaint, "were due to the joint and concurrent negligence, carelessness and fault of the defendants, and to their
joint and concurrent recklessness, carelessness, willfulness and
wanton disregard of the plaintiff's .rights and safety, in the
following manner, to wit :"-setting forth the circumstances
of his cause of action. Among other things, plaintiff alleged
that he was a flagman in the employment of the Southern
Railway Company, and on the day of the accident was ordered
by Arwood, the conductor in charge of a certain freight train,
on which Miller was engineer, to do the work of brakeman and
to couple some of the cars in the train; that these cars were
provided with automatic couplers, but one of them was not in
proper condition, which rendered it necessary for plaintiff to
go between the cars to effect the coupling; and that the acc-

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. CARSON.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the-Court.

dent thereupon happened by reason of defendants' "joint and
concurrent carelessness, negligence, recklessness;" etc., in particulars detailed.
Defendants severally demurred, the demurrers were overruled, and defendants excepted. Defendants then answered
severally, in identical terms, denying all negligence on the "part
of defendants, and asserting" that the plaintiff's.alleged injury
was the result of his own negligence." Trial was had and the
jury found for plaintiff against the railway company, judgment
was entered, and the railway company appealed to the. Supreme Court of the State. That court affirmed the judgment,
46 S. E. Rep. 525, and thereupon this writ of. error was allowed.
Mr. W. A. Henderson and Mr. T. P. Cothran for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. J. Altheus Johnson for defendant in error.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

This case comes before us on motions to dismiss or affirm.
There was certainly color for the motion to dismiss as we retain
jurisdiction with hesitation, and we will dispose of the case on
the motion to affirm.
By some of the many exceptions preserved on the trial and
disposed of by the state Supreme Court, it was sought to raise
Federal questions in respect of the acts of Congress (1) providing for the removal of cases from a state court to a court of the
United States, and (2) providing that railroad companies
engaged in interstate commerce shall equip their cars with
automatic couplers.
1. The railway company did not at any time apply for the
removal of the case to the Circuit Court. Plaintiff below and
the company's two co-defendants were citizens of the same
State, and the railway company did not make application to

OCTOBER TERM. 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

remove before trial on the ground of separable controversy or
want of good faith in the joinder. Nor did it make such application when plaintiff's evidence was in, nor on the whole
evidence. There was no suggestion throughout the trial that
the joinder was in itself improperly made, but the contention,
as exhibited by the exceptions, was that a verdict could not be
rendered against the company alone, because if it had been
sued alone it would have had the right of removal. The trial
court charged the jury that if the proof failed to show joint and
concurrent negligence on the part of all the defendants, yet
showed negligence on the part of one or more of them, resulting in injury to plaintiff, as the sole and proximate cause
thereof, the jury might find a verdict against such defendant
or defendants as the proof showed were guilty of such negligence; and to this instruction the railway company preserved
an exception.
The railway company also excepted to the refusal of the
court to give several instructions asked on its behalf to the
effect that, as by the allegation of a joint and concurrent tort,
the company had been deprived of the right to remove the
cause, joint and concurrent tort must be made out against the
company and at least one of the other defendants; that to
allow plaintiff to recover without proof of joint and concurrent
tort would deprive the company of the right of removal guaranteed by the Constitution and laws; and of its property without due process of law, in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment, in that the company'would be deprived of the
right of reimbursement which would otherwise exist. But
these are matters upon the merits, and recovery against one of
several defendants does not depend on whether, if sued alone,
that defendant might have removed the case. The right of
removal depends on the act of Congress, and the company not
only on the face of the pleadings did not come within the act,
but it made no effort to assert the right. The rule is well
settled, as stated by Mr. Justice Gray in Powers v. Chesapeake
& Ohio Railway Company, 169 U. S. 92, "that an action of

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. CARSON.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tort, which might have been brought against many persons or
against any one or more of them, and which is brought in a
state court against all jointly, contains no separate controversy which will authorize its removal by some of the defendants into the Circuit Court of the United States, even if they
file separate answers and set up different defences from the
other defendants, and allege that they are not jointly liable
with them, and that their own controversy with the plaintiff
is a separate one; for, as this court has often said, 'a defendant
has no right to say that an action shall be several which the
plaintiff seeks to make joint. A separate defence may defeat
a joint recovery, but it cannot deprive a plaintiff of his right
to prosecute his suit to final decision in his own way. The
cause of action is the subject-matter of the controversy, and
that is, for all the purposes of the suit, whatever the plaintiff
declares it to be in his pleadings.' "
The view thus expressed was reiterated in Chesapeake & Ohio
Railway Company v. Dixon, 179 U. S. 131, where the subject
was much considered and cases cited. Reference was there
made to the fact that many courts have held the identification
of master and servant to be so complete that the liability of
both may be enforced in the same action. And such is the law
in South Carolina. Schumpert v. Southern Railway Company,
65 S. Car. 332. In that case it was held that under the state
Code of Civil Procedure, in actions ex delicto, acts of negligence
and willful tort might be commingled in one statement as
causes of injury; that master and servant are jointly liable as
joint tort feasors for the tort of the servant committed within
the scope of his employment and while in the master's service;
that the objection that if master and servant were made jointly
liable for the negligence of the latter the master could not call
on the servant for contribution, was without merit, as' the rule
was, as laid down by Mr. Cooley, (Torts, page 145,) that: "As
between the company and its servant, the latter alone is the
wrongdoer, and in calling upon him for indemnity, the company bases no claim upon its own misfeasance or default, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

upon that of the servant himself." And see Gardner v. Railway Company, 65 .S. Car. 341. In Rucker v. Smoke, 37 S. Car.
377, and Skipper v. Clifton Man. Company, 58 S. Car. 143, it
was decided that in actions such as this exemplary damages
may be recovered. The suggestion that the State deprived
the company of its property by the rulings of the Supreme
Court calls for no remark.
2. The act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531,,c. 196, provided,
in respect of common carriers engaged in interstate commerce,
"that on and after the first day of January, eighteen hundred
and ninety-eight, it shall be unlawful for any such common
carrier to haul or permit to be hauled or used on its line any
car used in moving interstate traffic not equipped with couplers
coupling automatically by impact, and which can be uncoupled
without the necessity of men going between the ends of the
cars." The trial court in one of its instructions set forth this
provision, and told the jury that if they found the railway
company was engaged, and these cars were being used, in
interstate traffic, and that they were not equipped with the
automatic couplers required, such failure was negligence; and
it was further charged that railroads were required to keep
their appliances in safe and suitable order. It is objected that
the instructions assumed that if the automatic coupler was out
of repair, the company failed to comply with the act of Congress,
but we do not think so, and the Supreme Court of the State
held that there was no error as Congress must have intended
that the couplers should be kept in proper repair for use, and
moreover, as such'was th6 law of the State, even if the act of
Congress had not specifically imposed this duty. By this
ruling no right specifically set up or claimed under the act of
Congress by defendant below was decided against. There was
no pretense that the act of Congress provided that the automatic couplers need not be kept in order, and whether the cars
in question were used in moving interstate traffic and whether
the coupling appliances were deiective or Aot, were facts left
to the jury and determined by their verdict. The' recovery

KIRBY v. AMERICAN SODA FOUNTAIN CO.
194 U. S.

141

Statement of the Case.

was not sought on the single ground of want of safe appliances.
That was important in its connection with Carson's being
ordered to go between the cars, and it was negligence while he
was obeying that order, which was chiefly relied on. At all
events, the company did not specifically set up or claim any
right under the act of Congress or dependent on its construction which was denied by the state courts, and the question
raised on these instructions and numerous others on various
aspects of the case were not Federal questions, and need not
be considered.
Judgment affirmed.

KIRBY v. AMERICAN SODA FOUNTAIN COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 357.

Submitted March 21, 1904.-Decided April 25, 1904,

The general rule is that when the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United
Stat~s has once attached it will not be ousted by subsequent change in the
conditions.
A Circuit Court may proceed to judgment on a cross bill where defendant's
pecuniary claim is less than $2,000, if the jurisdictional amount in dispute appears from bill, answer and cross bill which relate to the same,
transaction, notwithstanding the original bill has been voluntarily dismissed.

KIRBY filed his first original amended petition in the District
Court of Dallas County, Texas, against the American Soda
Fountain Company, averring that he was induced by false
representations by defendant to agree to exchange his soda
fountain apparatus for the soda fountain apparatus of defendant and pay defendant $2,025 in addition, and signed a
memorandum in relation thereto, which, however,- plaintiff
alleged did not contain all the terms of the contract; that the
exchange was made, but defendant's soda fountain apparatus,
instead of being superior in value by $2,025, was, as matter of

