394

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT. OF CLAIMS.
No. 560. Submitted March 21, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.
By the fiction of relation, where the interest of justice demands it, the legal
title may be held to relate back to the initiatory step for the acquisition
of the land.
Where the selection of indemnity lands is made in accordance with the
statute and the selection rejected, and action on the appeal is delayed, but
the appeal is finally decided in favor of the selections, the case is one
peculiarly within the principle of relation, as the approval of the selection manifestly imports- that at the time of the selection the land was
rightfully claimed by the applicant.
The successor- in interest to the applicant who would have been. entitled
to recover against trespassers for materials removed from the land after
the application and before the patent issued, may., under the doctrine of
relation, be regarded as the owner from the date of the application, and
is entitled to receive from the United States the amount collected by it
from trespassers who removed materials from the land after such date,
the United States having had notice of the claim prior to such collection.

THE United States appeals from a-judgment condemning it
to pay fifteen thousand dollars. The essential facts stated in
the findings are as follows:
In 1856 Congress granted to the State of Alabama public
lands to aid in the construction of various railroads referred
to in the first and sixth sections of the act. Among these was
the Northeast and Southwestern Railroad, "from near Gadsden to some point on the Alabama and Mississippi state line,
in the direction to the Mobile and Ohio Railroad, and with a
view to connect with said Mobile and Ohio Railroad." The
grant of land in place was six odd-numbered sections per mile
and lying within six sections in width on each side of the railroad. The act in section I also contained a provision for
indemnity lands, as follows:
"But in case it shall appear that the United States have,

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
194 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

when the lines or routes of said roads are definitely fixed, sold
any sections or any parts thereof, granted as aforesaid, or that
the right of preemption has attached to the same, then it shall
be lawful for any agent or agents, to be appointed by the
governor of said State, to select, subject to the approval of the
Secretary of the Interior, from the lands of the United States
nearest to the tiers of sections above specified, so much land,
in alternate sections, or parts of sections, as shall be equal to
such lands as the United States have sold, or otherwise appropriated, or to which the rights of preemption have attached
as aforesaid, which lands (thus selected in lieu of those sold
and to which preemption rights have attached as aforesaid,
together with the sections and parts of sections designated by
odd numbers, as aforesaid, and appropriated as aforesaid) shall
be held by the State of Alabama, for the use and purpose
aforesaid: Provided, That the land to be so located shall in no
case be further than fifteen miles from the lines of said roads,
and selected for and on account of each of said roads."
The act, in section 6, moreover contained this proviso:
"That the lands hereby granted to said State for the purpose of constructing a railroad from the northeast to the southwestern portion of said State, lying northwest of Elyton, shall
be assigned to such road as may be designated by the legislature
of said State."
It was further in substance provided, in section 4, that if
any of the authorized roads were not completed within ten
years, all right of the State in and to the lands granted should
cease, and they should revert to the United States. 11 Stat.
c. 41, pp. 17, 18.
By joint resolution of the legislature of the State of Alabama,
approved January 30, 1858, the grant made by the act aforesaid was accepted, and land was granted by the State to the
Northeast and Southwestern Alabama Railroad, a body corporate, existing under the laws of Alabama, to be used and
applied by said company "upon the terms and conditions in
said act of Congress contained." Laws of Alabama, 1857 td

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

1858, p. 430. In June, 1856, an order of withdrawal was
made by the Land Department of all the lands which were
thought to be embraced within both the place and indemnity
limits, which withdrawal included the land to which this controversy relates. This order was modified a few days thereafter so as to allow settlements to be made on the lands prior
to the time of the definite location of the road. Such definite
location was made and accepted by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office with the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, in December, 1858.
The Northeast and Southwestern Railroad was reincorporated by the State of Alabama in October, 1868, under the
name of the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company.
Acts of Alabama, 1868, pp. 207, 345. In April, 1869, the
time for the completion of the road was extended by act of
Congress for a period of three years from that date. 16 Stat.
45. The road was completed within the extended time, in
conformity with the law of Alabama and in compliance with
the act of Congress.
In December, 1887, an agent, duly appointed by the Governor of Alabama for that purpose, selected certain lands in
the indemnity limits in lieu of lands within the place limits,
which had been lost to the grantee by sale or preemption.
At.the time of making the selections there were tendered,to
the proper land officers all legal fees and charges. The selections- were rejected by the local officers and an appeal was
taken to the Commissioner of the General Land Office. This
appeal, however, was not acted upon for a considerable period
of time; 1 ut fin'ally in April, 1896, the appeal was decided in
favor of the selections, which were approved, and the title consequently passed from tha United States to the State of Ala.bama in trust for its grantees under the act of Congress. At
the time of the definite location of the road there was a deficiency in the place limits of 519,000 acres, and the whole
amount of the vacant or odd-numbered sections within the
indemnity limits, both approved and unapproved, available

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

to meet this deficiency, was less than 238,000 acres, leaving,
therefore, on the face of the land office records, at the time of
the definite location of the road, a deficiency of more than
281,000 acres. By various acts of the legislature of the State
of Alabama and conveyances which are. recited in the findings,
and which it is not necessary to reproduce, the plaintiffs below
became the owners of .the land patented by the United States,
within the indemnity limits, as above stated. During the
period, however, which' intervened between the selections of
land made by the agent of the State of Alabama and the approval of the selections by the Secretary of' the Interior, certain
persons went upon the lands selected and removed therefrom
valuable iron ore and lime rock. After the approval of the
selections the United'States brought a suit to recover from the
persons who had thus trespassed upon the lands the yalue of
the product by them removed. The owners of the land, in
pursuance of the selections, asserted a claim to the benefit of
the recovery which might be made, but assented to a compromise made by the United States with the trespassers by
which fifteen thousand dollars was paid to the United States
as the value of the material taken from the land. The owners
of the land at the time of the compromise protested that they
alone were entitled to receive the sum paid to the United States
and reserved their right to recover the same from the United,
States.
It is stated in the findings that a road known as the South
and North Alabama Railroad, declared to be one of the roads
enumerated in the sixth section of the act of Congress making
the grant to the State of Alabama, was definitely' located
opposite the land in controversy on. May 30, 1866, nearly
eight years after the definite location of the Northeast and
Southwestern Railroad, and was constructed within the time
required by law. There.is no finding, however, that a grant
was ever made to the South and North Alabama Railroad by
the State of Alabama, or that that road preferred any claim to
the land in question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradt for appellant.
Mr. M. D. Brainerd and Mr. J. A. W. Smith for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

As there is no finding which tends even to establish any right
at any time to the land in question in favor of the South and
North Alabama Railroad, all consideration of that subject may
be put out of view. Moreover, the existence of any supposed
right in favor of that company is conclusively disposed of on
this record by the finding as to the prior selection by the State
of Alabama under the grant in aid of the Northeast and Southwestern Railroad and the approval of such selection by the
Secretary of the Interior.
The Government makes no contention that if the title of the
plaintiffs was of such a character as to entitle them generally
to recover against the trespassers that the cause of action
against the United States for the money collected by it from
the trespassers is not one which is judicially cognizable. The
sole contention of the Government is that the' plaintiffs, after
application for selections and before approval of the selections,
had no such title to the land as would have justified a recovery
from the trespassers, and, a fortiori, therefore had no such title
as would warrant their recovering from the United States the
sum of money which it collected from the trespassers for the
elements removed from the land during the period between the
date of the application for selections and the approval of the
same by the Secretary of the Interior. This contention is
based upon the proposition that, whilst under the act in question the grant of land w1 lin the place limits may have been
one in prcesenti, the right to the indemnity lands did not vest
in the grantee until approval of the selections by the proper
officers of the Government; and hence the legal title was in the
United States as to such lands pending action on the applic,

UNITED STATES v. ANDERSON.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion for selections, and therefore at the time of the trespass the
United States was alone authorized to recover for the depredations committed. Unquestionably the general doctrine is that
where approval by the officers of the Government of selections
of indemnity land has been made a condition precedent to the
right to- take such lands, the legal title remains in the United
States until divested by the approval of the selections. Oregon
& California Ry. Co. v. United States, No. 1, 189 U. S. 103.
In consonance with this doctrine it has also been decided that,
until approval of selections within the indemnity limits, land
embraced in applications for selections remains the property
of the United States to such an extent that it cannot be taxed
as the property of the applicants. Wisconsin Railroad Co. v.
Price County, 133 U. S. 496.
But even though it be conceded, arguendo, that the doctrine
in question would allow rights to be acquired by third parties
to the injury of the applicant after the making of the selections
and pending approval thereof by the Government, it does not
follow that it controls the controversy here presented. This
results because on this record the rights of third parties are not
involved, since the controversy concerns only the right of the
United States to retain as against its grantees the proceeds
recovered by it as-the result of a trespass upon land after an
application for the selection of such land and pending action
thereon by the proper officers of the Government. Under
these circumstances the case is one for the application of the
fiction of relation, by which, in the interest of justice, a legal
title is held to relate back to the initiatory step for the acquisition of the land. Many cases illustrating the doctrine in various
aspects have been determined in this court.1
Indeed, this case is one coming peculiarly within the principle of relation, as the approval of the selections manifestly
I Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 100; Ross v. Barland,1 Pet. 655; Landes
v. Brant, 10 How. 348; Lessee of French v. Spencer, 21 How. 228, 240; Beard
v. Federy, 3 Wall. 478; Grisar v. McDowell, 6 Wall. 363; Stark v. Starrs, 6
Wall. 402; Lynch v. Bernal, 9 Wall. 315; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

imported that at the time of the application for selections the
land in question was rightfully claimed by the applicant. And
cogently does this become the case when it is considered that
the findings establish that at the time the application for selection was made, on the face of the records of the land office,
there was an enormous deficiency both in the place and indemnity lands. Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S.'330, 337.
Nor isthe assertion well founded that this case is not a
proper one for the application of the doctrine of relation because coming within the rule announced in United States v.
Loughrey, 172 U. S. 206. At the time of the trespass complained of in that case the United States had taken no step
to assert its reversionary rights in and to the land trespassed
upon, the legal title to which was in the State of Michigan at
the time the trespass was committed. Here as we have seen
the grantee had exercised his right to apply for selections
within the indemnity limits and had in legal form requested
the approval of the same by the Government. Everything
therefore which the grantee was required by law to do to
obtain the legal title had been performed. These facts bring
this case within the principle decided in Heath v. Ross, 12
Johns. 140, and Musser v. 'McRae, 44 Minnesota, 343, referred
to in: the opinion of the court in the Loughrey, case, (p. 218,) as
not being inconsistent with the principle there applied. Heath
v. Ross was an action of trover for timber cut between the
application for and date of a patent from the 'State, and its
ensealing and delivery by the Secretary of State. The title
was held to relate back to the first act, so as to entitle the
plaintiff to maintain an action against a mere wrongdoer, for
the value of the timber cut and carried away in the meantime.
Musser v. McRae was an action brought to recover the value
of timber cut by trespassers from indemnity lands selected
by the agent of certain railroad companies, intermediate the
application for selection and the patenting of the lands. To
permit a recovery, It was held that the title evidenced by the
patent related back at least to the date of the application for

HY-YU-TSE-MIL-KIN v. SMITH.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

selection. It was declared that the doctrine of relation was
properly applied to the case, "for the advancement of justice,

and to give the full effect to the grant it was intended to have."
Among other cases relied upon by the Minnesota court as sustaining the application made of the doctrine was the decision
of this court in Landes v. Brant, 10 How. 348.
Concluding, as we do, that the money in question belongs
to the appellee as the successor in interest of the party for whose
benefit the application for selections was.made, it results that
the judgment of the Court of Claims must be
Affirmed.

HY-YU-TSE-MIL-KIN v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 209. Submitted April 12, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

An Indian woman, head of a family of the Walla Walla tribe, having asked
under the act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 340, for an allotment of land on
which she resided and had made improvements, was refused on the ground
that she was not on the reservation'at the time of the passage of th6 act.
She was directed to remove from the land which was allotted to another
Indian who knew of her claims and improvements and who did not pay
for her improvements or make any himself. Subsequently she was
notified to make a selection but was not allowed to select the land formerly
occupied but was told by the land officer that her selcction of other lands
would not prejudice her claim thereto. No patent was issued to her for
the lands so selected. In an action brought -by her against the allottee
in possession of the lands originally selected by her,
Held, that it was not necessary under the act of March 3, 1885, that the
individual members of the tribes mentioned in the act should be actually
residing on the reservation at the"time of the passage of the act, and that
as her selection was prior to that of anyone else, she was entitled to the
allotment originally selected and- that her right thereto had not been lost
by the selection of other lands.
Held, that in a contest between two Indians, each claiming the same land,
the United States having no interest in the result is not a necessary party.

VOL. cxclv-26

