OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Syllabus.

194 U. S.

road company to the appellant was a sale of something it did
not possess, a mere device to bring its purchaser within the
provisions of the adjustment act of 1887 when that act was
never intended to apply to such a case.
We, 'therffore, answer the second question in the negative,
and omit as unnecessary any answer to the first one.
It will be so certified.

BINNS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
Nos. 196, 266. Submitted April 6, 1904.-Decided May 31,1904.

While it may not be within the power of Congress by a special system of
license taxes to obtain, from a Territory of the United States, revenue
for the benefit of the Natiodi as distinguished from that necessary for
the support of the territorial government, Congress has plenary power,
save as controlled by the provisions of the Constitution, to establish a
government of the Territories which need not necessarily be the same in
all Terfitories and it may establish a revenue system applicable solely to
the Territory for which it is established.
The fact that the taxes are paid directly into the treasury of the United
States and are ,not specifically appropriated for the expenses of the Territory, when the sum total of all the revenue from the Territory including all.
the taxes does not equal the cost and expense of maintaining the governmnent of the Territory, does not make the taxes unconstitutional if it
satisfactorily appear that the purpose of the taxes is to raise revenue
in that Territory for the Territory itself.
The license taxes provided for in § 460, Title II, of the Alaska Penal Code,
are not in conflict with the uniformity provisions of § 8 of Article I of
the Constitutibn of the United States.
The general rule that debates of Congress are not appropriate soirces of
information from which to discover the meaning of the language of
statutes passed by that body does not apply to the examination of the
reports of committees of either branch of Congress with a view of determining the scope of statutes passed on the strength of such reports.
Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, 464.

BINNS v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SECTION 460 of Title II of the Alaska Penal Code, act of
March 3, "1899, 30 Stat. 1253, 1336, as amended by the act of
June 6, 1900, entitled "An act making further provision for a
civil government for Alaska, and for other purposes," 31 Stat.
321, 330, reads "that any person or persons, corporation or
company proseduting or attempting to prosecute any of the
following lines of business within the District of Alaska shall
first apply for and obtain license so to do from a District Court
or a subdivision thereof in said district, and pay for said
license for the respective lines of business and trade as follows, to wit: . . . Transfer companies, fifty dollars per annum."
Section 461 provides: "That any person, corporation or
company doing or attempting to do business in violation of
the provisions of the foregoing section, or without having first
paid the license therein required, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor," etc.
Section 463: "That the licenses provided for in this act
shall be issued by the clerk of the District Court or any subdivision thereof . . . duly xnade and. entered: .
Provided, That . . . all moneys received for licenses by
him . . . under this act shall, except as otherwise provided by law, be covered into the Treasury of the United
States, under such rules and regulations as the Secretary of
the Treasury may prescribe."
Under this statute, plaintiff in error was ljrosecuted and
convicted in the District Court for the District of Alaska,
Second Division. This conviction has been brought to this
court on writ of error, and the question presented is whether
the statute is in conflict with section 8 of Article I of the
Constitution of the United States, which reads:"'The Congress
shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts andexcises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defence
and general welfare of the United States; but all duties, imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout the United
States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for the United States.

194 U. S.

Mr. J. C. Campbell and Mr. W. H. Melson for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Purdy for the United States:
The power to impose these license fees is not derived from
the general power of taxation provided for in Article I, section 8, of the Constitution, but from the plenary.power "to
dispose of and to make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the
United States." Art. IV, § 3, par. 2. The exercise of such
power is therefore not subject to the provisions limiting the
general power of taxation as to apportionment and uniformity.
It is unnecessary to ascertain or attempt to define the precise political relations existing between the Territory of Alaska
and the Federal Government. That Alaska is territory belonging to the United States is settled beyond controversy,
and that Congress has plenary powers, national and municipal,
Federal and state, over all the Territories, so long as they
remain in a territorial condition. American Insurance Co. v.
Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 542; Benner v. Porter, 9 How. 235, 242;
Cross v. Harrison, 16 How. 164, 193; National Bank v. Yankton County, 101 U. S. 129, 133; Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U. S.
15, 44; Mormon Church v. United States, 136 U. S. 1, 42, 43;
McAlister v. United States, 141 U. S. 174,. 181; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 48; Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244;
Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197.
The particular law here under discussion was enacted by
Congre~s as a needful regulation for the government of that
Territory.
The license fees imposed by this law are a part of a penal
code, and in the nature of police regulations, which, in the
judgment of Congress, are necessary for the government of
the Territory of Alaska by reason of its social conditions.
Wiggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S. 365; Ficklen v.
Shelby County, 145 U. S., 1, 23; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113.

BINNS v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

The licensing of persons to sell liquor is not an exercise of
the taxing power of the State to raise revenue, but of the police
power for the regulation and restriction of a dangerous business; it follows that the adjustment of fees for the license is
not governed by the constitutional provisions requiring equality
and uniformity of taxation. Black on Intoxicating Liquors;
Thomason v. State, 15 Indiana, 449. See also Black on Intoxicating Liquors, §§ 108, 109, 179, and cases there cited;
Lovingston v. Board of Trustees, 99 Illinois, 564.
The Constitution requires uniformity of taxation, but does
not require uniformity of police supervision. The power of
Congress to adapt its police regulations, or, to use the term of
the framers of the Constitution, its "needful regulations,"
to the peculiar conditions and needs of each separate Territory
seems clear. The framers wisely avoided any attempt to
create uniformity where uniformity was impossible. Downes
v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 292.
Congress has the power to license various trades and occupations in the Territories independently of and apart from the
power to tax, and the mere fact that revenue is derived as an
incident to the exercise of such power will not operate to char
acterize the license fee as a tax. For the distinction between
a license which grants authority to engage in a particular
business, thus conferring a privilege, and a tax granting no
such authority, see the License-Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462. As to
the revenue feature, see Baker v. Cincinnati, 11 Ohio St. 534;
Marmet v. State, 45 Ohio St. 63.
Congress could not make these licenses uniform throughout
the United States.
If taxes at all, these license fees are local taxes imposed by
Congress, as the legislature of Alaska, and paid into the Treasury
of the United States as the only treasury of Alaska, and obviously intended to meet the expenses of governing that
Territory.
The only legislative body in Alaska is Congress, and similarly the only executive in Alaska is the national executive

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

acting through its local appointees. Alaska has no distinct
treasury and no officer known as treasurer.
Admitting, for the purpose of the argument, that these
license fees are local taxes imposed by Congress in the Territory of Alaska and appropriated by Congress to the support
of the General Government, such a law would be constitutional
under the plenary power of Congress to govern the Territories.
Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 299.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The contention of plaintiff in error is that. the license tax
is an excise, that it is laid and collected "to pay.the debts and
provide for the common defence and general welfare of the
United States,", because by section 463 it is provided that
"all moneys received for licenses
under this act
shall . . . be covered into the Treasury of the United
States,' that it is imposed only in Alaska, and is not "uniform
throughout the United States."
It is unnecessary to Consider the decisions in the Insular
cases, for, as said- by Mr. Justice White in his concurring
opinion iii Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 335: "Without
.referring in detail to the acquisition from Russia of Alaska,
it suffices to say that that. treaty also contained provisiong for
incorporation and was acted upon;". and by Mr. Justice Gray,
in his concurring opinion (p. 345): "The cases now before the
court do not touch the authority of the United States over the
Territories, in the strict and technical. sense, being thoge which
lie within the United States, as bounded by the Atlantic and
-Pacific Oceans, the Dominion of Canada and the Republic of
Mexico, and the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii; but they
relate to territory, in' the broader sense, acquired bv the
United Rtates by war with a foreign State."
It had been theretofore held by this court in Steamer Coquitlam v. United States, 163 U. S.*346, 352, that ' Alaska is

3INNS v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

one of the Territories of the United States. It .was so designated in that order (the order assigning the Territory to the
Ninth Judicial Circuit) and has always been so regarded.
And the court established by the act of 1884 is the court of
last resort within the limits of that Territory." Nor can it
be doubted that it is an organized Territory, for the act of
May 17, 1884, 23 Stat. 24, entitled "An. act providing a civil
government for Alaska,." provided: "That the territory ceded
to the United States by Russia by the treaty of March thirtieth,
eighteen hundred and sixty-seven, and known as Alaska, shall
constitute a civil and judicial district, the government of which
shall be organized and administered as hereinafter provided."
See also 31 Stat. 321, see. 1.
We shall assume that the purpose of the license fees required
by section 460 is the collection of revenue, and that the license
fees are excises within- the constitutional sense of the terms.
Nevertheless we are of opinion that they are to be regarded as
local taxes imposed for the purpose of raising funds to support
the administration of local government in Alaska.
It must be remembered that Congress, in the government
of the Territories as well as of the District of Columbia, has
plenary power, save as controlled by the provisions of the
Constitution, that the form of government it shall establish
is not prescribed, and may not necessarily be the same in all
the Territories. We are accustomed to that generally adopted
for the Territories, of a quasi state governme'nt, with executive, legislative and judicial officers, and a legislature endowed
with the power of local taxation and local expenditures, but
Congress is not limited to this form. In the District of Columbia it has adopted a different mode of government, and in
Alaska still another. It may legislate directly in respect to
the local affairs of a Territory or transfer the power of such
legislation to a legislature elected by the citizens of the Territory. It has provided in the District of Columbia for a board
of three commissioners, who are the controlling officers of the
District. It may entrust to them a large volume of legislative

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.'

power, or it may by direct legislation create the whole body
of statutory law applicable thereto. For Alaska, Congress has
established a government of a different form. It has provided
no legislative body but only executive and judicial officers.
It has enacted a penal and civil code. Having created no
legislative body and provided for no local legislation in respect
to the matter of revenue, it has established a revenue system
of its own, applicable alone to that Territory. Instead of
raising revenue by direct taxation upon property, it has, as it
may rightfully do, provided for that revenue by means of
license taxes.
In reference to the power of Congress reference may be had
to Gibbons v. District of Columbia, 116 U. S. 404, in which it was
held that f' it is within the constitutional power of Congress,
acting as the local legislature of the District of Columbia, to
tax different classes of property within the District at different
rates;" and further, after referring to the case of Loughborough v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317, it was said (pp. 407, 408):
"The power of Congress, legislating as a local legislature
for the District, to levy taxes for district purposes only, in
like manner as the legislature of a State may tax the people
of a State for state purposes, was expressly admitted, and has
never since been doubted. 5 Wheat. 318; Welch v. Cook, 97
U. S. 541; Mattingly v. District of Columbia, 97 U. S.687. In
the exercise of this power Congress, like any state legislature
unrestricted by constitutional provisions, may at its discretion
wholly exempt certain classes of property from taxation, or
may tax them at a lower rate than other property."
In view of this decision it would not be open to doubt that,
if the act had provided for a local treasurer to whom these
local taxes should be paid and directed that the proceeds be
used solely in payment of the necessary expenses of the government of Alaska, its constitutionality would be clear, but
the contention is that the statute requires that the proceeds
of these licenses shall be paid into the Treasury of the United
States, from which, of course, they can only be taken under

BINNS v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an act of Congress making specific appropriation. In fact, all
the expenses of the Territory are, in pursuance of statut ) paid
directly out of the United States Treasury. Act of June 6,
1900, Title I, sections 2 and 10, 31 Stat. 322, 325.; Act of
March 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 960, 987; April 28, 1902, 32 Stat. 120,
147, and February 25, 1903, 32 Stat. 854, 882. True, there
are some special provisions for revenues and their application.
Thus, the fees for issuing certificates of admission to the bar
and for commissions to notaries public are to be retained by
the secretary of. the district and "kept in a fund to be known
as the District Historical Library Fund" and designed for
"establishing and maintaining the district historical library
and. museum," act of June 6, 1900, Title I, sec. 32, 31 Stat.
333, and municipal corporations are authorized to impose
certain taxes for local purposes. Title III, sec. 201, 31 Stat.
521. By section 203, fifty per cent Of all the license moneys
collected within the limits of such corporations are to be paid
to their treasurers to be used for school purposes. By subsequent legislation, 31 Stat. 1438, it is provided that if th
amount thus paid is not all required for school purposes the
District Court may authorize the expenditure of the surplua
for any municipal purpose. And by the same statute it
also provided that fifty per cent of all license moneys collected
outside municipal corporations and covered into the Treasury
of the United States shall be set aside to be expended for
school purposes outside the municipalities. By still later
legislation, (although that was enacted after the commencement of this prosecution, 32 Stat. 946,) the entire proceeds
of license taxes within the limits of municipal corporations
are to be paid to the treasurer of the corporation, for school
and municipal purposes.
But outside of these special matters there are no provisions
for collecting revenue within the Territory for the expenses
of the territorial government other than these license taxes
and charges of a similar nature. According to the informa.tion furnished by the officers of the Treasury Department,

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

as shown in the brief of counsel for the Government, all the
revenues of every kind and nature which can be considered
as coming from Alaska are not equal to the cost and expense
of administering its territorial government. How far we are
at liberty to rely upon this information, which was not presented upon the trial of this case, or how far we can take
judicial notice of the facts as, shown by the records of the
Treasury Department, need not be determined, for if an excess
of revenue above the cost and expense of administering the
territorial government must be shown to establish the unconstitutionality of the license taxes the fact should have been
shown by the plaintiff in error. The presumptions are that
the act imposing those taxes is constitutional, and anything
essential to establish its invalidity which does not appear of
record or from matters of which we can take judicial notice
must be shown by the party asserting the unconstitutionality.
The question may then be stated in this form: C(ongress has
undoubtedly the power by direct legislation to impose these
license taxes upon the residents of Alaska, providing that when
collebted they are paid to a, treasurer of the Territory and
disbursed by him solely for the needs of the Territory. Does
the fact that they are ordered to be paid into the Treasury
of the United States and not specifically appropriated to the
expenses of the Territory, when the sum total of these and all
other revenues from the Territory does not equal the cost and
expense of maintaining its government, make them unconstitutional? In other words, if, under any circumstances,
Congress has the power to levy and collect these taxeA for the
expenses of the territorial government, is it essential to their
validity that the proceeds therefrom be kept constantly sp- arate- from all other moneys and specifically and solely appropriated to the interests of the Territory? We do not think
that the constitutional power of Congress in this respect
depends entirely on the mode of its exercise. If it satisfactorily appears that the purpose of these license taxes is to
raise revenue for use in Alaska, and that the total revenues
.

BINNS v. UNITED STATES.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

derived from Alaska are inadequate to the expenses of the
Territory, so that Congress has to draw upon the general
funds of the Nation, the taxes must be held valid. That the
purpose of th~se taxes was to raise revenue in Alaska for
Alaska is obvious. They were authorized in statutes dealing
solely with Alaska. There is no provision for a direct property tax to be collected in Alaska for the general expenses of
the Territory. The entire moneys collected from these license
taxes and otherwise from Alaska are inadequate for the expenses of that Territory. So far as we may prop'erly refer to
the proceedings in Congress, they affiri that these license
taxes are charges upon the citizens of Alaska for the support
of its government. While it is generally true that debates
in Congress are not appropriate sources of information from
which to discover the meaning of the language of a statute
passed by that body, United States v. Freight Association, 166
U. S. 290, 318, yet it is also true that we have examined the
reports of the committees of either body with a view of determining the scope of statutes' passed on the strength of such
reports: Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457,
464. When sections 461 and 462 were under consideration
in thae Senate the chairman of the Committee on Territories,
in response to inquiries from Senators, made these replies:
"The Committee on Territories have thoroughly investigated
the condition of affairs in Alaska and have prepared certain
licenses which in their judgment will create a revenue sufficient to defray all the expenses of the government of the
Territory of -Alaska. . . . They are licenses peculiar to
the condition of affairs in the Territory of Alaska on certain
lines of-goods, articles of commerce, etc., which, in the judgment of the committee, should bear a license, inasmuch as
there is no taxation whatever in Alaska. Not one dollar of
taxes is raised on any kind of property there. It is therefore
necessary to raise revenue of some kind, and in the judgment
of the Committee on Territories. after consultation with proninent citizens of the Territory of Alaski, including the governor

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

194 U. S.

and several other officers, this code or list of licenses was prepared by the committee. It was prepared largely upon their
suggestions and upon the information of the committee derived from conversing with them." Vol. 32, Congressional
Record, Part III, page 2235.
While, of course, it would have simplified the matter and
removed all doubt if the statute had provided that those taxes
be paid directly to some local treasurer and by him disbursed
in payment of territorial expenses, yet it seems to us it would
be sacrificing substance to form to hold that the method pursued, when the intent of Congress is obvious, is sufficient to
invalidate the taxes.
In order to avoid any misapprehension we may add that
this opinion must not be extended to any case, if one should
arise, in which it is apparent that Congress is, by some special
system of license taxes, seeking to obtain from a Territory of
the United States revenue for the benefit of the nation as distinguished from that necessary for the support of the territorial government.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

took no part in the decision of this case.

WYNN-JOHNSON v. SHOUP.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UAITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 266. Submitted April 28, 1904.-Decided May 31, 1904.
Decided on authority of Binns v. United States, ante, p, 486.

Mr. S. Al. Stockslager and Mr. George C. Heard for plaintiff
in error.

