TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
194 U. S.

Syllabus.

tion of privity of contract that he could claim the benefit of it,
was necessary to the protection of the complainant's right in
the property held by the railroad company, against which he
was proceeding in Utah. There is nothing to show that the
railroad company, with the large surplus which it was alleged
to have accumulated, could not have responded to any decree
which the complainant might have recovered in the foreclosure
suit.
Nor can the bill be maintained as one to stay waste. There
is no estate of complainants in the hands of Spencer Trask &
Company which is likely to be wasted pending the suit. As the
complainant shows no legal or equitable right to the fund furnished by the stockholders, neither the method of its management nor its protection from diminution can concern him.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court was right, and that
the bill cannot be maintained either as an original or ancillary
proceeding.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. JOHN TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 561. Argued April 6, 7, 1904.-Decided May 16,1904.

Congress has power to exclude aliens from, and to prescribe the conditions
on which they may enter, the United States; to establish regulations for
deporting aliens who have illegally entered, and to commit the enforcements of such conditions and regulations to executive officers.
Deport-'

ing, pursuant to law, an alien who has illegally entered the United States,
does not deprive him of his liberty without due process of law.
The Alien Immigration Act of March, 1903, 32 Stat. 1213, does not violate
the Federal Constitution, nor are its provisions as to the exclusion of aliens
who are anarchists, unconstitutional.
A board of inquiry and the Secretary of Commerce and Labor having found
that an alien immigrant was an anarchist within the meaning of the Alien

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

Immigration Act of March 3, 1903, and there being evidence on which to
base this conclusion, his exclusion, or his deportation after having unlawfully entered the country, within the period prescribed pursuant to the
provisions of the act, will not be reviewed on the facts.

JOHN TURNER filed in the United States Circuit Court for

the Southern District of New York, October 26, 1903, a
petition alleging-" First. That on October 23 in the city of New York your
relator was arrested by divers persons claiming to be acting
by authority of the Government of the United States and was
by said persons conveyed to the United States immigration
station at Ellis Island in the harbor of New York, and is now
there imprisoned by the Commissioner of Immigration'of the
port of New York.
"Second. Your relator is so imprisoned by virtue of a warrant sworn out by the Secretary of the Department of Commerce and Labor, Which warrant charges your relator with
being an anarchist and being unlawfully within the United
States in violation of section 2 and section 20 of the immigr'a.tion laws of the United States, as amended by act of March 3,
1903.
"Third. Upon information and belief that a special board of
inquiry consisting of Charles Semsey, Captain Weldon, supervising inspector, and L. C. Stewart, all of whom are executive
officers of the United States, has inquired into, your relator's
cAse and lecided that your relator is an anarchist, and is in
the United States in violation of law within the meaning of
the act of March 3, 1903.
" Fourth. Your relator denies that he is an anarchist within

the meaning of the immigration laws of the United States,
and states to the court that about six years ago he took out
his first papers of application for citizenship in this country,
and that he has at no times been engaged as a propagandist
of doctrines inciting to or advising violent overthrow of government, but for about six years last past he has been the paid
organizer of the retail clerks of Great Britain and his business

TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
194 U, S.

Statement of the Case.

in this country is solely to promote the interests of organized
labor, and that he has at all times conducted himself as a
peaceful and law abiding citizen.
"By reason of all of which facts your relator says that his
imprisonment is illegal, in that he is being deprived of his
liberty without due process of law and is being denied equal
protection of the laws, contrary to the Constitution and laws
of the-United States."
And praying for a writ of habeas corpus to the Commissioner
of Immigration of the port of New York, and also for a writ
of certiorari to bring up the record of the Board of Inquiry
which adjudged him to be an anarchist and in the United
States in violation of the immigration laws. The commissioner made return under oath and also certified the record of
the Board of Inquiry.
The return stated" That the above named John Turner is an alien, a subject
of the Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland; that said alien
came to the United States from England on or about ten days
prior to October 24, 1903, as deponent is informed and beie' es.
"Said John Turner was arrested in the city of New York
on or about October 23, 1903, under a warrant issued by the
Secretary of the Department of Commerce and Labor of the
United States, and was taken to the Ellis Island immigratiofi
station, where he was examined by a board of a special inquiry, duly constituted according to law, upon his right to remain in this country, and that said alien was by said board
found to be an alien anarchist, and was by unanimous decision of said board ordered to be deported to the country from
whence he came as a person within the United States in violation of law. That on October 26, 1903, said alien appealed
from the said decision of the board of special inquiry to the
Secretary of Commerce and Labor, who dismissed the appeal
and directed that said alien be deported to the country from
whence he came upon the ground that said alien is an anar-

OCTOBFR TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

chist and a per. on who disbelieves in and who is opposed to
all organized government and was found to be in the United
States in violation of law.
" That annexed hereto is a copy of the above-mentioned
warrant for the arrest and deportation of said John Turner,
and copies of the minutes of said hearing before the board of
special inquiry, and a copy of the order or decision of the
Secretary of Commerce and Labor dismissing said appeal and
again directing deportation. That said John Turner is now
held in deponent's custody at the Ellis Island immigrant station pending deportation to the country from whence he came
in accordance with the above-mentioned decision or order of
the Secretary of Commerce and Labor."
The warrant issued by the Secretary was addressed to certain United States immigrant inspectors, and recited that from
the proofs submitted the Secretary was satisfied that Turner,
an alien anarchist, came into this country contrary t6 the prohibition of the act of Congress of March 3, 1903, and commanded them to take him into custody and return him to the
country from whence he came at the expense of the United
States. On appeal to the Secretary the record of proceedings
before the board of inquiry was transmitted, and the Secretary
held: "The evidence shows that the appellant declined to give
exact information as to the manner in which he secured admission to this country, although he swears that he arrived
here about ten days ago. He admits that heis an anarchist and
an advocate of anarchistic principles, which brings him within
the class defined by section 38 of the act approved March 3,
1903. In view of these facts, the appeal is dismissed and you
are directed to deport the said John Turner in conformity
with warrant now in your hands for exe'ution."
The hearing before the Board of Inquiry was had October 24,
1903, and it appeared from the minutes thereof that Turner
testified that he was an Englishmrian; that he had been in the
United States ten days, and that he did not come through New
York, but declined to either affirm or deny that he arrived

TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
194 U. S.

Statement of the Came.

via Canada; that he would not undertake to deny that he
had in the lecture delivered in New York, October 23, declared himself to be an anarchist, which, he said, was a statement that he would make; and that the testimony of the
inspectors was about correct. That evidence gave extracts
from the address referred to including these: " Just imagine
what a universal tie-up would mean. What would it mean
in New York city alone if this idea of soliditary were spread
through the city? If no work was being done, if it were Sunday for a week or a fortnight, life in New York would be impossible, and the workers, gaining audacity, would refuse to
recognize the authority of their employers and eventually take
to themselves the handling of the industries.

.

.

.

All

over Europe they are preparing for a general strike, which
will spread over the entire industrial world. Everywhere the
employers are organizing, and to me, at any rate, as an anarchist, as one who believes that the people should emancipate
themselves, I look forward to this struggle as an opportunity
for the workers to assert the power that is really theirs."
Certain papers were found on Turner, one of them being a
list of his proposed series of lectures, (which, when the warrant was in execution, he rolled up and threw away,) the
subjects including:" The legal murder of 1887," and "The
essentials of anarchism;" notices of meetings, one of a massmeeting November 9, at which "Speeches will be delivered
by John Turner in English, John Most in German, and several
other speakers. Don't miss this opportunity to hear the truth
expressed about the great Chicago tragedy on the eleventh of
November, 1887;" and another, stating: "It may be interesting to all that Turner has recently refused to accept a candidacy to Parliament because of his anarchistic principles."
A demurrer was interposed to the return, and, after argu
ment, the Ciicuit Court dismissed the writ and remanded the
petitioner. 126 Fed. Rep. 253. From this order an appeal
was prayed and allowed to this court, and, having been
docketed, petitioner was admitted to bail.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of th - Case.

194 U. S.

Sections 2 and 38 of the act of March 3, 1903, entitled "An
act to regulate the immigration of aliens into the United
States," 32 Stat. 1213, e. 1012, are as follows:
"Sac. 2. That the following classes of aliens shall be excluded from admission into the United States: All idiots,
insane persons, epileptics, and persons who have been insane
within five years previous; persons who have had two or
more attacks of insanity at any time previously; paupers ;
persons likely to become a public charge; professional beggars ; persons afflicted with a loathsome or with a dangerous
contagious disease; persons who have been convicted of a felony or other crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
polygamists, anarchists, or persons who believe in or advocate
the overthrow by force or violence of the Government of the
United States or of all governments or of all forms of law, or
the assassination of public officials; prostitutes, and persons
who procure or attempt to bring in prostitutes or women for
the purpose ,of prostitution; those who have been, within one
year from the date of the application for admission to the United States, deported as being under offers, solicitations, promises or agreements to perform labor or service of some kind
therein; and also any person whose ticket or passage is paid
for with the money of anotler, or who is assisted by others to
come, unless it is affirmatively and satisfactorily shown that
such person does not belong to one of the foregoing excluded
classes; but this section shall not be held to prevent persons
living in the United States from sending for a relative or
friend who is not of the foregoing excluded classes: Provided,
That nothing in this act shall exclude persons convicted of an
offence purely political, not involving moral turpitude: And
provided further, That skilled labor may be imported, if labor
of like kind unemployed cannot be found in this country: And
provided further, That the provisions of this law applicable
to contract labor shall not be held to exclude professional
actors, artists, lecturers, singers, ministers of any religious denomination, professors for colleges or seminaries, personS

TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

belonging to any recognized learned profession, or persons
employed strictly as personal or dornestic servants."
"SEc. 38. That no person who disbelieves in or who is opposed to all organized government, or who is a member of or
affiliated with any organization entertaining and teaching such
disbelief in or opposition to all organized government, or who
advocates or teaches the duty, necessity, or propriety of the
unlawful assaulting or killing of any officer or officers, either
of specific individuals or of officers generally, of the Government of the United States or of any other organized government, because of his or their official character, shall be
permitted to enter the United States or any Territory or
place subject to the jurisdiction thereof. This section shall
be enforced by the Secretary of the Treasury under such rules
and regulations as he shall prescribe.
"That any person who knowingly aids or assists any such
person to enter the United States or any Territory or place
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, ,or who connives or conspires with any person or persons to allow, procure, or per-mit any such person to enter therein, except pursuant to such
rules and regulations made by the Secretary of the Treasury,
shall be fined not more than five thousand dollars, or imprisoned for not less than one nor more than five years, or both."
By the act of February 14, 1903, 32 Stat. 825, c. 552,
"Tb establish the Department of Commerce and Labor," the
jurisdiction, supervision and control possessed and exercised
by the Department of the Treasury over the immigration .of
aliens into the United States were transferred to the Department of Commerce and Labor established by the act, to take
effect and be in force the first day of July, 1903.
Mr. Clarence S. Darrow and Mr. Edgar L. Masters for ap.
pellants:
The arrest and deportation are null and void. The act of
February 14, 1903, which created the Department of Commerce and Labor which invested the Secretary thereof with

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellants.

194 U. S.

control of the general immigration service, was repealed by the
act of March 3, 1903,which invested the Secretary of the Treasury With the administration of the immigration service, and
which repealed by express terms all acts or parts of acts inconsistent therewith.
Section 38 of this act, under which section the appellant was
deported, is unconitutional because in contravention of the
First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
which declares that Congress shall make no law respecting the
establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise
thereof, or abridging the. freedom of speech or of the press.
The inhibition of the First Amendment goes to the very competency of Congress itself to pass any such law, independent
of whether such law relates to a citizen or an alien. Pollock
v. F. L. & T. Co., 157 U. S.427; Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S.
244.
Although the law in question discriminates against disbelief
this is the same thing as abridging freedom of speech. Spencer's Principles of Ethics, vol. 2,136; Mill's Essay on Liberty;
Freund on Police Power, 475.
The act is unconstitutional and void because in contravention of ยง 1, Art. III, which declares that th judicial power of
the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and
in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time
ordain and establish.
The law provides for the trial of an alien by d Board of
Special Inquiry, secret and apart from the public; without indictment; without confrontation of witnesses; without the
privilege to the accused of obtaining witnesses; without the
right of counsel. It transfers to the Federal inspectors engaged
in executing the orders of the executive department of the
government, that judicial power which belongs only to the
judiciary under the Constitution of the United States.
The framers of the Constitution designed that the departments of, the government should not encroach one upon the
other. Brice's American Commonwealth, vol. 1, 282; Ban-

TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
194 U. S.

Argument for Appellants,

croft's History of the Constitution, vol. 1, 327; Madison's
Debates, pp. 64, 73, 160; The Federalist, No. 46. For the
advantage of thus dividing the government, see Montesquieu's
Spirit of Laws, book 2, sec. 6; Locke on Civil Government,
p. 14.
The whole judicial power under the Constitution is vested
in one Supreme Court and such inferior courts as Congress
shall from time to time ordain and establish. Kilbourn v.
Thompson, 103 U. S. 1.68; Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 173;
Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 330; Kent's Coin. vol. 1,
301; Anderson v. Hovey, 124 U. S. 694; Ex parte Milligan, 4
Wall. 2.
As to the general principle of liberty and as to its breach by
the process warranted by this law, see Kentucky Resolutions;
The Philosophy of Law, Immanuel Kant; Spencer's Principles
of Ethics, vol. 2, p. 92 (D. Appleton & Co.).
The appellant was deprived of his liberty without due process of law. Ex parteSing (C. C.), 82 Fed. Rep. 22; Wong Wing
v. United States, 163 U. S. 227; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U.
S. 356; Kent's Corn. vol. 1, 599; Caldwell v. Texas, 137 U. S.
691; Callan y, Wilson, 127 U: S. 540; Madison's Virginia Resolutions; Elliott's Debates, vol. 4, 555 et seq.
No power whatever is delegated by the Constitution to the
general government over alien friends with reference to their
admission into the United States, or otherwise; or over the
beliefs of citizens, denizens, sojourners or aliens, or over the
freedom of speech, or of the press. See Elliott's Debates,
vol. 1, p. 322, et seq.
The decisions which validate the exclusion laws of the general government predicate their reasoning upon the 'commerce
clause. of the Constitution or'upon the sovereign character of
the general government. Edye v. Robertson, 112 U. S. 580
Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 146 U. S. 698.
These cases referred 'to Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, for
the definition of commerce. It is contended that Gibbons v.
Ogden is binding in so far only as it holds commece to include

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Argument for Appellants.

194 U. S.

navigation; that the definition of commerce given in that decision is not binding law, except in so far as it holds commerce
to include navigation. The rule of stare decisis only arises in
respect of decisions directly upon the points at issue. Cohens
v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 398; Carroll v. Carroll, 16 How. 275;
Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 427.
The regulation of commerce does not include the regulation
of beliefs or the regulation of immigration. And though Congress has power to regulate commerce with foreign nations it
cannot do so to the extent of overriding inhibitions upon its
power which go to its very competency to pass the law. And
though Congress may regulate commerce with foreign nations it cannot in and by such regulation abridge the freedom
of speech or of the press.
So far as the sovereign character of the government is concerned, sovereignty under our system devolved upon the States
after the Revolution. Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dallas, 470; Sturgis v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat: 193 ; DartmouthCollege v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 161 ; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Peters,
720 ; Martin v. Waddell, 16 Peters, 410 ; Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 325; Fontain v. Ravenel, 17 How. 369.
The government of the United States is a government of
limited power, and has only such powers as have been conferred upon it- Complete sovereignty never was transferred
to the general government. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch,
176 ; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 405 ; Wyman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 43 ; Gilman v. Philadelphia,70 U. S. 713; Pacific Ins. Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 342; Buffington v. Day, 11 Wall.
113; United States v. Cruickshank, 92 U. S. 542; United States
v. Harris,106 U. S. 629; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356;
Story on the Constitution; Robertson v. Baldwii, 165 U. S. 296,
dissent of Mr. Justice Harlan; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations; Tucker's Blackstone App. A.; Bank v. Earle, 13 Pet.
58; Elliot's Debates, vol. 2, 131; Stephens's Constitutional
View of the War, vol. 1, pp. 40, 41, 487, 488, 489.
If aliens can be excluded from the territory of the United

TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States because of ,their beliefs and that under the commerce
clause of the Constitution, then citizens of one State can be
preven-ted, because of their beliefs, from passing from that
State to any of the other States, under the commerce clause
of the Constitution; because that clause empowers Congress to
regulate commerce not only with foreign nations but among
the several States.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
This appeal was taken dirdctly to this court on the ground
that the ,case involved the construction or application of the
Constitution of, the United States, and that the constitutionality of a law of the United States was 'drawn in question
and although it may be, as argued by the Government, that
the principles which must control our decision have been practically settled, we think, the whole record considered, that we
are not constrained to dismiss the appeal for that reason.
It is contended that the act of March 3, 1903, is unconstitutional because in contravention of the First, Fifth and
Sixth Articles of Amendment of the Constitution, and of see-*
tion 1 of Article III of that instrument; and because no power
"is delegated by the Constitution to the General Government
over alien friends with reference to their admission into the
United $tates or otherwise, or over the beliefs of citizens,
denizens, -sojourners or aliens, or over the freedom of speech
or of the press."
Repeated decisions of this court have determined that Congress has the power to exclude aliens from the United States;
to prescribe the terms and conditions on which they may come
in; to establish regulations for sending out of the country such
aliens as have entered in violation of law, and to commit the
enforcement of such conditions and regulations to executive
VOL. CXCIV-1 9

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

officers; that the deportation of 'an alien who is found tO be
here in violation of law is not a deprivation of liberty without due process of law, and that the provisions of the Constitution securing the right of trial by jury have no application.
Chae Chan Ping v. United States, 130 U. S. 581; Nishimura
Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651 ; Fong Yue Ting V. United States, 149 U. S. 698 ; Lenz Moon Sing v. United States, 158
U. S. 538;. Wong Wing v. United States, 163 U. S. 228; Fok
Yung Yo v. United States, 185 U. S. 296; Japanese Immigrant
Case, 189 U. S. 86; Chin Bak Kan v. United States, 186 U. S.
193; United States v. Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 16L
In the case last cited the distinction on which Gonzales v.
Williams, 192 U. S. 1, turned was pointed out. The question
whether a citizen of Porto Rico, under the treaty of cession
and the act of April 12, 1900, came within the immigration
law of March 3, 1891, was purely a question of law, which
being decided in the negative all questions of fact became
immaterial.
In the present case alienage was conceded and was not in
dispute, and it was the question of fact thereupon arising
that was passed on by the Board, and by the Secretary on
appeal.
Whether rested on the accepted principle of international
law that every sovereign nation has the power, as inherent in
sovereignty and essential to self-preservation, to forbid the
entrance of foreigners within its dominions, or to admit them
only in such cases and upon such conditions as it may see fit
to prescribe; or on the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, which includes the entrance of ships, the importation of goods, and the bringing of persons into th&ports of
the United States, the act before us is not open to constitutional objection. And while we held in Wong Wing v. United
Slates, supra, a certain provision of an immigration law invalid on that ground, this act does not come within the ruling.
In that case Mr. Justice Shiras, speaking for the court, said:
"We regard it as settled by our previous decisions that the

TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States can, as a matter of public policy, by Congressional enactment, forbid aliens or classes of aliens from coming
within their borders, and expel aliens- or classes of aliens from
their territory, and can, in order to make effectual such decree
of exclusion or expulsion, devolve the power and duty of identifying and arresting the persons included in such decree, and
causing their deportation, upon executive or subordinate officials.
" But when Congress sees fit to further promote such a policy
by subjecting the persons of such aliens to infamous punishment at hard labor, or by confiscating their property, we think
such legislation, to be valid, must provide for a judicial trial
to establish the guilt of the accused. No limits can be put by
the courts upon the power of Congress to protect, by summary
methods, the country from the advent of aliens whose race or
habits render them undesirable as citizens, or to expel such if
they have already found their- way into our land and unlawfully remain therein. But to declare unlawful residence within
the country to be an infamous crime, punishable by deprivation of liberty and property, would be to pass out of the sphere
of constitutional legislation, unless provision were made that
the fact of guilt should first be established by a judicial trial.
It is not consistent with the theory of our government that the
legislature should, after having defined an offence as an infamous crime, find the fact of guilt and adjudge the punishment
by one of its own agents."
Detention or temporary confinement as part of the means
necessary to give effect to the exclusion or expulsion was held
valid, but so much of the act of 1892 as provided for imprisonment at hard labor without a judicial trial was held to be unconstitutional. The cases of Chae Chan Ping, Fong Yue Ting
and Lem Moon Sing were carefully considered and applied.
We do not feel called upon to reconsider these decisions, and
they dispose of the specific contentions as to the application of
the Fifth and Sixth Amendments, and section 1 of Article III,
and the denial of the delegation to the General Government of

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

the power to enact this law.

194 U. S.

But it is said that the act vio-

lates the First Amendment, which prohibits the passage of any
law "respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the

free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or
of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble,
and to petition the government for a redress of grievances."
We are at a loss to understand in what way the act is obnoxious to this objection. It has no reference to an establishment
of religion nor does it prohibit the free exercise thereof ; nor
abridge the freedomfi of speech or the press ; nor the right of
the people to assemble and petition the government for a redress
of grievances. It is, of course, true that if an alien is not permitted to enter this country, or, having entered contrary to law,
is expelled, lie is in fact cut off from worshipping or speaking or
publishing or petitioning in the country, but that is merely because of his exclusion therefrom. He does not become one of
the people to whom these things are secured by our Constitution by an attempt to enter forbidden by law. To appeal to
the Constitution is to concede that this is -a land governed by
that supreme law, and as under it the power to exclude has
been determined to exist, those who are excluded cannot assert
the rights in general obtaining in a land to which they do not
belong as citizens or otherwise.
,Appclant's contention really comes to this, that the act is
unconstitutional so far as it provides for the exclusion of an
alien because he is an anarchist.
The argument seems to be that, conceding that Congress has
the power to shut out any alien,. the power nevertheless does
not extend to some aliens, and that if the act includes all alien
anarchists, it is unconstitutional, because some anarchists are
merely political philosophers, whose teachings are beneficial
rather than otherwise.
Counsel give these definitions from the Century Dictionary:
" ANARCHY. Absence -or insufficiency of government; a state
of society in which there is no capable supreme power, and in
which the several functions of the state are performed badly or

TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
194 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not at all; social and political confusion.

Specifically-2. A

social theory which regards the union of order with the absence
of all direct government of man by man as the political ideal;
absolute individual liberty. 3. Confusion in general.
"ANARCHIST. 1. Properly, one who advocates anarchy or the
absence of government as a political ideal; a believer in an
anarchic theory of society; especially, an adherent of the
social theory of Proudhon. (See Anarchy, 2.) 2. In popular
use, one who seeks to overturn by violence all constituted
forms and institutions of society and government, all law and
order, and all rights of property, with no purpose of establishing any other system of order in the place of that destroyed;
especially, such a person when actuated by mere lust of
plunder. 3. Any person who promotes disorder or excites revolt against an established rule, law, or custom."
And Huxley is quoted as saying: "Anarchy, as a term of
political philosophy, must be taken only in its proper sense,.
which has nothing to do with disorder or with crime, but denotes a state of society in which the rule of each individual by
himself is the only government the legitimacy of which is recognized."
The language of the act is " anarchists, or persons who
believe in or advocate the overthrow by force or violence of
the Government of the United States or of all government or
of all fQrms of law, or the assassination of public officials." If
this should be construed as defining the word'" anarchists"
.by the words which follow, or as used in the popular sense
above given, it would seem that when an alien arrives in this
country, who avows himself to be an anarchist, without more,
he accepts the definition., And we suppose counsel does not
deny that this Government has the power to exclude an alien
who believes in or advocates the overthrow of the Government
or of all governments by force or the assassination of officials.
To put that question is to answer it.
And if the judgment of the board and the Secretary was
that Turner came within the act as thus construed, we can-

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

194 U. S.

not hold as matter of law that there was no evidence onwhich
that conclusion could be rested. Even if Turner, though he
did not so state to the board, only regarded the absence of
government as a political ideal, yet when he sought to attain
it by advocating, not simply for the benefit -of workingmen,
who are justly entitled to repel the charge of desiring the destruction of law and order, but" at any rate, as an anarchist,"
the universal strike to which he referred, and by discourses on
what he called "The legal murder of 1887," Spies v. People,
122 Illinois, 1, and by addressing mass meetings on that subject in association with Most, Reg. v. Most, 7 Q. B. Div. 244;
People v,. Most, 171 N. Y. 423, we cannot say that the inference was unjustifiable either that he contemplated the ultimate realization of his ideal by the use of force, or that his
speeches were incitements to that end.
If the word " anarchists " should be interpreted as includ-

ing aliens whose anarchistic views ate professed as those of
political philosophers innocent of evil intent, it would follow
that Congress was of opinion that the tendency of the general
exploitationof such views is so dangerous to the public weal
that aliens who hold and advocate them would be undesirable
additions to our population, whether permanently or temporarily, whether many or few, and, in the light of previous decisions, the act,'even in this aspect, would not be unconstitutional, or as applicable to any alien who is opposed to all
organized government.
We are not to be understood as depreciating the vital importance of freedom of speech and of the press, or as suggesting limitations on the spirit of liberty, in itself unconquerable,
but this case does not involve those considerations. The
flaming brand which guards the realm where no human government is needed still bars the entrance; and as long as human
governments endure they cannot be denied the power of selfpreservation, as that question is presented here.
Reference was made by counsel to the alien law of June 25,
1798, 1, Stat.,570 c. 58, but we do not think that the con-

TURNER v. WILLIAMS.
194 U.S.

rREWER,
MR. JUSTirCE

concurring.

troversy over that law (and the sedition law) and the opinions
expressed at the time against its constitutionality have any
bearing upon this case, which involves an act couched in entirely different terms and embracing an entirely different pur-.
pose. As Mr. Justice Field remarked in the Chinese Exclusion
Case, 130 U. S.581, 610: "The act was passed during a
period of great political excitement, and it was attacked and
defended with great zeal and ability. It is enough, however,
to say that it is entirely different from the act before us, and
the validity of its provisions was never brought to the test of
judicial decision in the courts of the United States."
Order affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

BREWER, concurring.

In view of the range of discussion in the argument of this
case at the bar I feel justified in adding a few words to what
has been said by the Chief Justice.
First. I fully endorse and accentuate the conclusions of the
court, as disclosed by the opinion, that, notwithstanding the
legislation of Congress, the courts may and must, when properly called upon by petition in habeas corpus, examine and
determine the right of any individual restrained of his personal
liberty to be discharged from such restraint. I do not believe
it within the power of Congress to give to ministerial officers
a final adjudication of the right to liberty or to oust the courts
from the duty of inquiry respecting both law and facts. " The
privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended,
unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public safety
may require it." Const. Art. 1, see. 9, clause 2.,
Second. While undoubtedly the United States as a nation
has all the powers which inhere in any nation, Congress is not
authorized in all things to act for the nation, and too little effect has been given to the Tenth Article of the amendments
to the Constitution, that " the powers not delegated to the
United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it. to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Statement of the Case.

194 U. S.

States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." The powers the people have given to the General Government are named in the Constitution, and all not there
named, either expressly or by implication, are reserved to the
people and can be exercised only by them, or upon further
grant from them.
Third. No testimony was offered on the hearing before the
Circuit Court other than that taken before the immigration
board of inquiry, and none before such board save that preserved in its report. Hence the facts must be determined by
that evidence. It is not an unreasonable deduction therefrom
that petitioner is an anarchist in the commonly accepted
sense of the term, one who urges a~d seeks the overthrow by
force of all government. If that be not the fact, he should
have introduced testimony to establish the contrary. It is
unnecessary, therefore, to consider what rights he would have
if he were only what is called by way of differentiation a philosophical anarchist, one who simply entertains and expresses
the opinion that all government is a mistake, and that society
would be better off without any.

HEWIT v. BERLIN MACHINE WORKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 228. Argued April 18, 1904.-Decided May 16, 1904.

A trustee in bankruptcy gets no better title than that which the bankrupt
had and is not a subsequent purchaser, in good faith, within the meaning
tf ยง 112 of chapter 418, of the laws of 1897 of New York. And as the
vendor's title under a conditional sale is good against the bankrupt it is
good also against the trustee.
LOREN

M.

HEWIT,

as trustee in bankruptcy of Clard-E.

