Oct. 1881.]

GRIGGS V. HOUSTON.

GRIGGS V. HOUSTON.
1. Sections 1166 and 1167 of the Code of Tennessee, touching the liability which
railroad companies incur by failing to observe certain precautions in
running their trains, do not apply to contractors engaged in constructing a
railroad.
2. The jury may be properly instructed to find for the defendant, where, if the
verdict should be against him, the court should set it aside and grant a new
trial.

E.RuOl to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Tennessee.
The defendants, contractors engaged in building a railroad
in Tennessee, were sued by the widow of Griggs, for herself
and his minor children, for damages caused by his death.
He was improperly riding on the pilot or bumper of a locomotive, forming part of a construction train of the defendants, at the time it collided with loaded cars standing on
the track. The injuries he then received resulted in his
death. Persons on the cars attached to the train were not
hurt.
Her claim to recover was based upon sect. 1166 and sect.
1167 of the Code of Tennessee, prescribing certain precautions which a railroad company must observe in running its
train. They provide that "when any person, animal, or other
obstruction appears upon the road, the alarm-whistle shall
be sounded, the breaks put down, and every possible means
employed to stop the train and prevent an accident; and every
railroad company that fails to observe these precautions, or
cause them to be observed by its agents or servants, shall be
responsible for all damage to persons or property occasioned
by or resulting from any accident or collision that may occur."
The court charged the jury that these provisions did not
apply to the case, and that she was not entitled to recover.
The jury found for the defendants, and she sued out this
writ.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. J. A. Thornburgh
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Xenophon Wheeler for the
defendants in error.

554

JONES

v.

BUCKELL.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We agree entirely with the court below in the opinion that
the statutes in relation to railroads relied upon by the plaintiff
in error are not applicable to the facts of this case. If upon
the evidence the jury had brought in a verdict against the
defendants it would have been the duty of the court to set it
aside and grant a new trial. The case comes clearly within
Railroad Company v. Jones (95 U. S. 439), which was followed
below. It was right, therefore, to direct a verdict for the defendants. There was no such conflict of evidence as to make
it necessary for the jury to pass on the facts.
Judgment affirmed.

JONES

v.

BUCKELL.

This court will not pass upon the charge below, where the bill of exceptions
does not set forth the evidence, and there is nothing to show that the question
of law to which the charge relates is involved in the issue.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida.
This was ejectment for lands in Jacksonville, Florida,
brought by John and Mary E. Buckell against Jones and
others. Plea, not guilty. There was a verdict for the plaintiffs, upon which judgment was rendered. The defendants
sued out this writ.
The bill of exceptions does not contain any of the evidence
on the trial, but relates to the charge, which is set out in the
opinion of this court.
The following agreement signed by the attorneys of the
respective parties was filed in the court below: "The plaintiffs and defendants, by their attorneys, admit
the following to be true, without the necessity of introducing
evidence in proof thereof, that is to say:
" The plaintiffs admit the regularity of all the proceedings in
the confiscation suit in the District Court for the Northern

