ST.

Louis v. KNAPP Co.

ST. Louis v. KNAPP

[Sup. Ct.

COMPANY.

Where the city of St. Louis filed its bill to enjoin the defendant from completing
on his premises within the city a work then in the course of construction,
whereby the Mississippi River would be divided from its natural course, and
a deposit created rendering it impossible for boats and vessels to land at the
city's wharf north or south of the premises, - Ield, that it is not necessary
that the bill should relate all the minute circumstances which may be proved
to establish its general allegations, and that the defendant should be required
to answer it.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The city of St. Louis commenced this suit by petition filed in
a State court. The suit, upon the application of the defendant,
the Knapp, Stout, & Co. Company, a corporation created by the
laws of Wisconsin, was removed into the Circuit Court of the
United States. The defendant, treating the petition as a bill
in equity, filed a demurrer, which was sustained. The bill was
dismissed, and the city appealed. The record, therefore, presents the question, whether the city, upon the showing made,
is entitled to the relief asked.
The case, as made by the bill, is this: Since the year 1822
the city has been, as it still is, a municipal corporation. It
has for its eastern boundary the middle of the main channel
of the Mississippi River, and is the proprietor of the bed of that
river within the city limits. By its charter it is authorized
to construct all needful improvements in the harbor; control,
guide, or deflect the current of the river; erect, repair, and
regulate public wharves and docks; regulate the stationing,
anchoring, and mooring of vessels and wharf-boats within the
city; charge and collect wharfage; and set aside and lease
portions of the improved wharf. By an ordinance to establish
and open the wharf from Biddle Street to the northern, and
from Hazel Street to the southern, boundary of the city, the
lines of the wharf were laid down and established upon a certain piece of real estate fronting the river, and the southern
boundary of which is about 320 feet north of the north line
of Bremen Avenue, produced to the river. The defendant is

Oct. 1881.]

ST. Louis v.

KNAPP

CO.

engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling lumber,
and is erecting a saw-mill upon the premises just described.
For the purpose of hauling saw-logs from the river, the defendant is constructing a run-way, extending from the mill
into the river, a distance of about one hundred feet eastwardly
from its western bank. It is also driving piles in the bed of
the river east of the eastern boundary of its premises, and east
of the eastern line of the wharf, as established by the city.
Portions of the wharf, established by the ordinance, to the
north and to the south of defendant's premises, and improved
and completed by the city, are used for landing boats and vessels engaged in navigation.
After averring, in substance, these facts, the bill proceeds
"That the effect of driving the piles in the bed of the river
and constructing the run-way as aforesaid, as proposed and
intended by defendant, will be to divert the navigable water
of the Mississippi River from its natural course and throw it
east of its natural location, and from along the river bank
north and south of said run-way and piling, and create, in
front of and upon plaintiff's improved wharf as aforesaid, a
deposit of mud and sediment, so that it will be impossible for
boats and vessels engaged in navigating the Mississippi River
to approach or land at the improved wharf north and south of
defendant's premises."
The formal allegation is then made that the act of defendant,
in building the proposed run-way and driving piles east of the
western water's edge and in the bed of the river, is a legal
wrong for which no adequate remedy can be afforded by an
action for damages, and will be a substantial impairment of,
and obstruction to, the navigation of the river.
The prayer of the complaint is that the defendant, its agents
and servants, be forever enjoined from driving piles eend constructing its run-ways east of the western water's edge in front
of its premises; that it be required to remove the piles already
driven, and the run-way so far as constructed; and that the
city have such other and further relief in the premises as may
be proper.
Mr. Leverett Bell for the appellant.
Mr. J. M. J-rum and Mr. C. H. Krum for the appellee.

ST.

Louis v.

KNAPP

Co.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN, after stating the facts, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Upon the hearing of the demurrer two questions were considered by the court: First, whether the bill, upon its face,
shows that the construction of the run-way will intrude upon
the city's rights and cause special damage; second, whether,
upon its allegations and in advance of the construction of the
work, a decree to prevent its completion should be rendered in
favor of the city.
The court, in disposing of the demurrer, waived a final decision of the first question, expressing, however, some doubt
whether the case was within the general rule that a suit in
equity to enjoin or abate a public nuisance must be brought
by one who has sustained, or is in danger of sustaining, individual special damages, apart from those suffered by the community at large.
Touching the second question, the court below remarked, it
was very clear that a public navigable stream must remain free
and unobstructed; that no private individual has a right to
place permanent structures within the navigable channel; and
that if the proposed run-way, when completed, proved to be a
material obstruction to the free navigation of the river, or a
special injury to the rights of others, it might be condemned
and removed as a nuisance. It was, however, of opinion that
the case presented was one of a threatened nuisance only, and
that the reasons assigned for interference by injunction, in
advance of the construction of the run-way, were not sufficient.
We are of opinion that the demurrer should have been overruled, and the defendant required to answer. The bill makes
a prima facie case, not only of the right of the city to bring
the suit, but for granting the relief asked. It distinctly avers
what the defendant proposes to do, and that averment is accompanied by the general charge or statement that the driving
of the piles in the bed of the river, and the construction of the
run-way, will not only cause a diversion of the river from its
natural course, but will throw it east of its natural location,
from along the river-bank north and south of the proposed runway and piling, creating in front of the city's improved wharf

Oct. 1881.]

ST. Louis v. KNAPP Co.

a deposit of mud and sediment, and rendering it impossible for
boats and vessels engaged in the navigation of the Mississippi
River to approach or land at the improved wharf north and
south of defendant's premises. This is not, as ruled by the
Circuit Court, merely the expression of an opinion or apprehension upon the part of the city, but a sufficiently certain,
though general, statement of the essential ultimate facts upon
which the complainant rests its claim for relief. It was not
necessary, in such a case, to aver all the minute circumstances
which may be proven in support of the general statement or
charge in the bill. While the allegations might have been
more extended, without departing from correct rules of pleading, they distinctly apprise the defence of the precise case it
is required to meet. There are some cases in which the same
decisive and categorical certainty is required in a bill in equity
as in a declaration at common law. Cooper, Eq. P1. 5. But,
in most cases, general certainty is sufficient in pleadings in
equity. Story, Eq. P1., sects. 252, 253. Let the case go back
for preparation and hearing upon the merits. If it should be
again brought here, we may find it necessary to discuss the
numerous authorities cited by counsel. In its present condition, we do not deem it wise to say more than we have in this
opinion.
The decree will be reversed, with directions to overrule the
demurrer, and for further proceedings according to law; and
it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not sit in this case.

