Oct. 1881.]

BItITTON

v. NICCOLLS.

757

the jury as requested by the defendant, and in its charge as
given, took views of the validity of the patent, on which the
case of the plaintiff rested, which are opposed to those expressed
in this opinion, and which necessarily resulted in the verdict
and judgment against the defendant. For these errors the
judgment must be reversed, with directions to grant a new trial;
and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not sit in this case nor take any
part in deciding it.

BRITTON V.

NICCOLLS.

1. A party in Illinois transmitted to bankers residing in a city in Mississippi a
note for collection which was there dated, but did not inform them nor were
they aware of the residence of the maker. The only instruction sent was
that the note was to be coll'ected if paid, and if not paid on presentment it
was to be protested and notice of non-payment sent to the indorser. In
due time they put the note in the hands of a reputable notary of that city
for the purpose of presentment and demand, and of notice to the indorser
should there be a default of payment. Held, that they are not liable to
their correspondent for the manner in which the notary performed his duty.
2. The notary is a public officer; and when he received the note, he, according
to the ruling of the Supreme Court of that State, became the agent of the
holder, and for failure to discharge his duties lie alone is liable.
3. The duty and liability of bankers as collecting agents stated, and the authorities bearing upon their responsibility for the acts of the notary to whom
the notes sent to them for collection are delivered for presentment, demand,
and protest, cited and examined.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. James Lowndes and Mr A. H. Hfandy for the plaintiff
in error.
Mr. William L. Nugent for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in the court below is the surviving partner of
the firm of Britton & Koontz, which was engaged in the bank-

BRITTON V. NIcCOLLS.

[Sup, Ct.

ing business at Natchez, in the State of Mississippi, in 1874
and 1875. The plaintiff in the court below, Niccolls, was at
that time a citizen of Illinois, and the present suit is brought
by him to recover damages from the surviving partner of the
firm for its neglect to present for payment to the maker, at
their maturity, two promissory notes sent to it for collection,
by reason of which the liability of a responsible indorser was
released.
The facts in the case are briefly these: In April, 1874, the
plaintiff was the holder of a promissory note of one John I.
Lambert for $3,666.66, dated at Natchez, April 24, 1872, and
payable to his order two years after date, with interest at the
rate of eight per cent per annum. The note was indorsed by
three parties besides the payee, - J. M. Reynolds, John Flemming, and J. S. Everet. Flemming's indorsement was without
recourse to him; the other indorsements were without any such
restriction upon the liability of the parties.
In April, 1874, the plaintiff caused this note to be sent,
through a banking-house in Bloomington, Illinois, to the firm
at Natchez for collection. The only instructions accompanying
it were that it was to be collected if paid, and if not paid on
presentment it was to be protested and notice of non-payment
sent to the indorsers.
In April, 1875, the plaintiff was the holder of another note
of the same maker, identical in amount, date, and terms with
the first, except that it was payable in three years after date;
and it was indorsed in like manner by the same indorsers. This
note matured on the 27th of that month. Some days previously
the plaintiff sent it to the firm at Natchez, with instructions to
collect it if paid, and if not paid to have it delivered to a protesting officer for protest, and to give notice to the indorsers.
No information as to the residence of the maker was given
to the firm with the notes; nor does it appear that either member of it had, then or subsequently, any knowledge on the subject. The plaintiff himself was ignorant of it. He resided,
in fact, on his plantation, twelve or fifteen miles from Natchez;
he had no domicile or place of business in that city. The notes
not being paid at their respective maturities, - the first one
on the 27th of April, 1874, and the second one on the 27th of

Oct. 1881.1

BRITTON V. NICCOLLS.

April, 1875, - before the close of banking hours on those days,
were handed by the firm to a notary-public of the county, with
instructions to demand payment of them, and if they were not
paid to protest them and send notice of non-payment to the
indorsers. No other directions were given. The notary knew
that the maker resided on his plantation, and had no place of
business in the city ; but he inquired for hin at the post-office,
the city ball, and the court-house, - three of the most public
places there, - and, not finding him, protested the notes for nonpayment, and gave notice thereof to the indorsers.
The plaintiff soon afterwards brought suit against the maker
and also against the indorser, Everet, which proceeded to judgment and execution ; but nothing was obtained from the parties.
Suit was also brought against Reynolds, the first indorser, in
which judgment passed for the defendant, on the ground that
due presentment of the notes to the maker and demand of
payment had not been made at their maturity, by reason of
which the indorser was released from liability. It is admitted
that if judgment had been rendered against Reynolds, the
money due upon the notes might have been collected upon
execution.
The plaintiff thereupon brought the present
action.
The notary testified that, in his endeavors to make presentment of the notes for payment, he had acted upon his own
opinion as to his duty, without instructions from the firm ; and
because he considered that the notes, being dated at Natchez,
and no place of payment being stated, the place of presentment
was, in law, at Natchez, and not at the maker's domicile outside
of the city.
The surviving partner, Britton, testified that it was always
the custom of the firm, when it had notes for collection, whether
its own or those belonging to others, to send through the postoffice a notice of their amount and of the date of their maturity
to the proper parties, a reasonable time before the notes became
payable, and if payment was not made at their maturity, to
place them in the hands of a notary for presentment and protest; that this course was pursued with respect to the notes in
question; that Koontz, the deceased partner, who, it would
seem, took special charge of the business of protesting paper

BRITTON V.

NiCCOLLS.

[Sup. Ct.

left with the firm for collection, when that was necessary, had
inquired of several persons coming into the banking-house as
to the residence of the maker of the notes, and on one occasion
left the house for the express purpose of trying to ascertain it,
and returned stating that he had not succeeded ; and that "the
notary would have to comply with the law in such cases, and
present at several of the most public places." lie also testified
that he was " certain that Koontz made diligent efforts to ascertain Lambert's (the maker's) place of residence, and that they
were unsuccessful."
Upon the facts and testimony as stated, the defendant,
among other things, requested the court to instruct the jury,
in substance: that if the bankers had no knowledge of the
residence or place of business of the maker, and were unable,
after diligent inquiry in the city of Natchez, to ascertain the
same, and thereupon, at the maturity of the notes, handed them
to a notary-public for the purpose of having presentment made
thereof to the maker for payment, and of having them protested in case of non-payment and notice thereof given to the
indorsers, then the bankers were not liable for negligence in
performing the duties intrusted to them, nor for failure of the
notary to discharge the duties required of him with respect to
the demand of payment.
We do not give the precise language of the instruction asked,
but only its substance and purport. The court refused it, and
instructed the jury, in substance : that if it was the duty of
the bankers to perform such acts as the law required to charge
the indorsers upon the notes, which were to present them to the
maker for payment on their last days of grace respectively, and
upon non-payment to give notice thereof to the indorsers ; and
that the bankers were not exonerated from this duty by the
delivery of the notes to the notary for their performance, unless
it was within a reasonable time for him to present the notes to
the maker, and to demand payment, on the days they respectively became due, at his residence or place of business. To
the refusal of the instruction asked, and to those given, an
exception was taken.
The plaintiff recovered judgment for
the amount due on the notes, and the case is brought here for
review.

Oct. 1881.]

BRITTON v. NICCOLLS.

The notes being dated at Natchez, the presumption of law,
in the absence of other evidence on the subject, is that that
was the place of residence of the maker, and that be contemplated making payment there. The duty of the bankers as
collecting agents was, therefore, to make inquiry for his place
of business or residence in that city, and, if he had either to
make there the presentment of the notes, but if he had neither
to use reasonable diligence to find him for that purpose; or if
the employment of a notary-public for that object was sanctioned by the usage of bankers, or by the law as declared by
the courts of the State, instead of making the presentment and
demand personally, they could have placed the notes in his
hands for the performance of that duty. As it turned out
that the maker had neither domicile nor place of business in
the city, and was absent at the time from it, no demand upon
him there was possible, nor was that essential to charge the
indorsers.
The law on this subject we consider to be well settled, as
will be seen by an examination of the numerous adjudged
cases as to what constitutes due presentment and demand of
payment of commercial paper, and what will excuse both. The
only point upon which we find any marked difference of opinion
in them respects the liability of the collecting bankers for the
manner in which the notary, to whom the notes are delivered
for presentment and protest, discharges his duty.
In the State of New York the doctrine obtains that bankers,
to whom notes are intrusted for collection are responsible for
the failure of agents employed by them in the presentation of
the notes to the maker and in protesting them when not paid,
though the agents are notaries exercising a public office and
especially charged with the performance of such duties. In the
case of Allen v, Merchants' Banke of New Yorke, it was decided
by the Court of Errors of that State that the liability of the
bank extended to any neglect.of duty by which any of the parties to a bill are released, whether arising from default of its
own officers or servants, or its correspondents at a distance,
or agents employed by them. Previously a more limited liability was supposed to rest upon a collecting bank. In that
case the bill was drawn in New York upon parties in Phila-

BRITTON V. NICCOLLS.

[Sup. ft,

delphia and placed in the defendant's bank of the former city
for collection, and by it forwarded to a bank in Philadelphia.
The latter bank handed it to a notary to present for acceptance. He presented it, but omitted to give notice of its nonacceptance, by which a responsible indorser was released.
The action was against the collecting bank to recover the
amount of the bill, and was brought in the Superior Court
of the city of New York, where the jury was charged that
the defendant was, upon general principles of law, independently of any custom or usage, or of any agreement express or
implied, only bound to transmit the bill to Philadelphia in due
time to some competent agent; and that it was not liable for
his negligence or omission in giving notice of its non-acceptance.
Judgment having passed for the defendant, the case
was taken to the Supreme Court of the State, and was there
affirmed. That court, speaking through Mr. Justice Nelson,
said that "a note or bill of exchange left at a bank and received for the purpose of being sent to some distant place for
collection, would seem to imply, upon a reasonable construction, no other agreement than that it should be forwarded with
due diligence to some competent agent to do what should be
The language and acts of the
necessary in the premises.
parties fairly import so much, but nothing beyond it. The
person leaving the note is aware that the bank cannot personally attend to the collection, and that it must therefore be
sent to some distant or foreign agent," and that there seemed
to be nothing in the nature of the transaction which could
reasonably imply an assumption for the fidelity of the agent
abroad. 15 Wend. (N. Y.) 482. The case being carried to
the Court of Errors, the decision of the Supreme Court was
reversed, and the doctrine declared that the bank was responsible for all subsequent agents employed in the collection of
the paper. 22 id. 215. The reversal was by a vote of fourteen
senators against ten; Chancellor Walworth, who composed a
part of the Court of Errors in cases appealed from the Supreme
Court, voting with the minority and giving an opinion for affirmation of the judgment. Senator Verplank delivered the prevailing opinion. The decision has since been followed in New
York, and its doctrine, we believe, has been adopted in Ohio.

Oct. 1881.]

BRITTON v. NICCOLLS.

763

But in the courts of other States it has been generally rejected
and the views expressed by the Supreme Court approved.
In Dorchester and Milton Bank v. New England Bank, it
was held by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts that when
notes or bills, payable at a distant place, are received by a
bank for collection, without specific instructions, it is bound
to transmit them to a suitable agent at the place of payment,
for that purpose ; and that when a suitable sub-agent is thus
employed, in good faith, the collecting bank is not liable for
his neglect or default. In giving its judgment the court referred to the ruling in Allen v. The Merchants' Bank, and
observed that it was opposed to a number of decisions of great
authority, and, in its opinion, was not well founded in principle; that if the bank in that case acted in good faith in
selecting a suitable sub-agent where the bill was payable,
there was no principle of justice or public policy by which
the bank should be made liable for his neglect or misfeasance. 1 Cush. (Mass.) 177.
In the Supreme Courts of Connecticut, Maryland, Illinois,
Wisconsin, and Mississippi, the doctrine of the Supreme Court
of New York in the case reversed, and of the Supreme Court
of Massachusetts in the case cited, has been approved and
followed. In the New York case, in the Court of Errors, it
was conceded that the general liability of the collecting bank
might be varied and limited by express agreement of the parties, or by implication arising from general usage; and in some
of the cases in other States, proof of such general usage of
bankers in the employment of notaries was permitted, and a
release thereby asserted from liability of the bank for any
neglect by them. Thus in Warren Bank v. Suffolk Bank,
(10 id. 582), a note left with the latter bank for collection
had been placed at the close of banking hours with a notarypublic for presentment and protest, and by his negligence in
presenting the paper to the maker the liability of an indorser
was released. The bank was thereupon sued. On the trial,
proof was offered to show that in Boston, where the case arose,
it was the invariable usage of banks, when notes were sent
for collection by other banks, to keep them for payment until
the close of banking hours on the day they became payable,

BRITTON V.

NICCOLLS.

[Sup. Ct.

and if not then paid to put them into the hands of a notarypublic for demand on the maker and protest; and that the defendant had pursued that course. The court below decided
that, if there were negligence on the part of the notary, the
evidence was immaterial, and that the usage did not constitute
a defence.
The Supreme Court reversed this decision, and
held that the evidence was admissible. "It would, we think,"
said the court, "have authorized the jury to find an implied
agreement or assent to the employment of a sub-agent or
notary-public for the purposes of making a demand on the
maker, requiring only in the collecting bank due diligence
and care in selecting the ilotary, or a general usage binding
certainly those who were conversant of it. It is no sufficient
answer to this to say that it was not absolutely necessary to
employ a notary in a case like the present to certify to the
demand and protest. If this was the well-established course
of business, and known to the plaintiffs when they sent to the
defendants this note for collection, they must be bound by it."
The court also said, that when the nature of the business in
which an agent is engaged requires for its proper and reasonable execution the employment of a sub-agent, the principal
agent is not responsible for the default of the sub-agent, provided a proper one be selected; and it was of opinion that, if
the usage of the banks authorized the employment of a subagent holding an official character, it then became a case of
sub-agency, with its incidents.
In the case at bar there was no proof of any general usage of
bankers at Natchez as to the employment of notaries-public in
the presentment and protest of notes left with them for collection. But we have before us the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi, and they are of equal potency to limit
the liability of the bankers for the negligence of the notary.
We can look into those decisions to ascertain what the law is
in that State, and how far it has modified what would otherwise be deemed the general law on any particular subject. By
them we are informed that it is the settled law of the State,
that "a bank receiving commercial paper, as an agent for collection, properly discharges its duties, in case of non-payment,
by placing the paper in the hands of a notary-public to be pro-

Oct. 1881.]

O RITTON V. NiccOLLS.

ceeded with in such manner as to charge the parties to it, and
secure the rights of the real owner; and that the bank is not
liable in such cases for the failure of the notary to perform his
duty." This is the language used by that court in Bowling v.
Arthur (34 Miss. 41); and in support of it Tiernan v. Commercial Bank of Natchez (7 How. (Miss.) 648), and of Commercial Bank of llanchester v. Agricultural Bank (7 S. & M.
592), are cited. And the court adds, that these cases decide
that the notary is the sub-agent of 'the holder, through the
bank, and as such is liable to him; and it is satisfied that the
rule declared in them is correct.
By a statute of Mississippi notaries are authorized to protest
promissory notes as well as bills of exchange, and they are required to keep a record of their notarial acts in such cases;
and the record is admissible in evidence in the courts of the
State just as though the notary were present and interrogated
respecting the matters recorded. And it was decided in the
case of Bowling v. Arthur, that, under the statute, it is a part
of the duty of the notary, when protesting paper, to give all
notices of dishonor required to charge the parties to it.
Judged by the law of Mississippi, the bankers, Britton and
Koontz, discharged their duty to the plaintiff when they delivered the notes, received by them for collection, to the notarypublic. There is no question as to his habits or qualifications.
He was not connected in business with the bankers, nor employed by them except in his official character. What more
could they have done, as intelligent and honest collecting
agents, desirous of performing all that was required of them
by the law, ignorant, as theywere, of the residence or place of
business of the maker of the notes, and having unsuccessfully
made diligent inquiry for them? Had they known that the
maker resided on his plantation, without the city limits, in
time to make the demand upon him, it might, perhaps, have
been incumbent upon them to forward the notes there for presentment. It is not necessary to express any opinion on this
head, for the only question is whether, on the knowledge they
possessed, they discharged their whole duty. For the reasons
stated we are of opinion that they did all that the law required
of them.

766

BRITTON V. NICCOLLS.

[Sup. Ct.

The notary, it is urged, was aware of the residence of the
maker; but we do not perceive how this could affect the liability of the bankers. We are not prepared to say that even
with this knowledge he was bound, receiving the paper at the
close of banking hours, to go out of the limits of the city to
present it to the maker. He took the paper to inquire for the
maker in the city, not outside of it, and to make presentment
if he were found. If his knowledge of the residence of the
maker could have required him to leave the city, so it would
have done had the maker resided one hundred miles distant
instead of twelve or fifteen. But on this head we are not called
upon to express an opinion. It is enough here that the notary
was not, in this matter, the agent of the bankers. He was a
public officer whose duties were prescribed by law; and when
the notes were placed in his hands, in order that such steps
should be taken by him as would bind the indorsers if the
notes were not paid, he became the agent of the holder of the
notes. For any failure on his part to perform his whole duty
he alone was liable; the bankers were no more liable than they
would have been for the unskilfulness of a lawyer of reputed
ability and learning, to whom they might have handed the notes
for collection, in the conduct of a suit brought upon them.
The fact that in the action against the indorser, Reynolds,
judgment passed in his favor, on the ground that due presentment and demand of payment had not been made of the
maker, can have no weight in this case. The bankers were
not parties to that action, had no control over its management,
and are not bound by the judgment rendered. If the plaintiff was not satisfied with that judgment, he should have
appealed from it. The rulings of the court in that case are
not authority in this.
It follows from these views that the instruction refused
should have been given, and that the instructions given should
have been refused. The judgment, must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurred in the judgment.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not sit in this case.

