Oct. 1881.]

VINTON v. HAMILTON.

VINTON V. HAMILTON.
Letters-patent No. 143,600, dated Oct. 14, 1873, and granted to John J. Vinton
for an improvement in the manufacture of iron from blast-furnace slag, are
void, inasmuch as the process and appliances described in his specification
and claim were known and in common use before the date of his alleged
invention.
APPEAL from the Ci-cuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
The bill of complaint alleged that Hamilton and the other
defendants were infringing certain letters-patent, No. 143,600,
dated Oct. 14, 1873, and granted to John J. Vinton, one of the
complainants, for an improvement in the manufacture of iron
from furnace slag, and it prayed for an injunction to restrain
them from further infringement, and for damages and an account of profits.
The answer denied that Vinton was the original or first
inventor or discoverer of the patented improvement, and it
denied infringement.
Upon final hearing, the bill was dismissed because the process
described in the letters-patent was known and in common use
before Vinton's application for them, and the same were, therefore, null and void.
The complainants thereupon appealed the case to this court.
The specification of the letters-patent declares as follows :-

"My invention relates to the production of cast-iron from the
slag, or refuse of the smelting or blast furnace. Heretofore a large
percentage of good metallic iron has been thrown away with the
slag, and become lost to commerce, so far as its use as metallic iron
is concerned. This is more particularly the case with rich ores, such
as the Missouri and lake ores, which from their nature flux imperfectly in the ordinary smelting furnace. When imperfectly fluxed
the slag assumes a thick consistency, and cools with a general grayish color, and though the presence of metal in it cannot be detected
by the eye, yet the slag will be found to be of comparatively great
specific gravity, and in fact contains a very large percentage of
good metallic iron, often as great as the amount of metal reduced
from the ore in the process of smelting.

VINTON V. HAMILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

"To reduce this metal from the heavy slag of the smelting furnace, and thereby increase the production of iron from the same
amount of ore, is the object of my invention. To accomplish the
desired result I employ a cupola furnace, but furnaces specially
adapted to the purpose may be constructed and conveniently used
in connection with the blast furnaces where the iron is smelted.
"The heavy slag is first pulverized or broken up into small pieces,
or it may be made granulous or spongy by passing water or air
through it when in a molten state, or in any of the well-known
ways. A bed of coke or other suitable material is first placed in
the cupola, and on the top of the coke a small quantity of scrap or
other oxidized iron (preferably scale or black oxide of iron) is
sprinkled.
"The slag to be operated on is then introduced as evenly as
possible on the top of the coke and iron oxide, and on the top of the
slag I sprinkle a small quantity of limestone broken up into small
pieces, then a layer of coke, followed with scrap and scale slag and
lime as before alternately until the whole cupola is charged.
"The fuel is then ignited, and when the fire is above the tuyeres
the blast is turned on to the full. Owing to the presence of the
iron oxides, the heat is very great when brought in contact with
the slag, and the latter is speedily reduced, and as the operation
goes on, fresh charges of the materials arc supplied from the top of
the cupola, provision being made for the passage of the remaining
slag from the furnace at a point below the tuyeres.
"In this way it will be seen that the process is continuous, and
the furnace is not permitted to get cool.
"The charge is made up in about the following proportions, but
may be slightly varied as occasion requires: After the furnace is in
operation, first, three bushels of coke; second, fifty pounds iron
oxide (scrap or scale) ; third, eight hundred pounds slag; fourth,
one-fourth of a bushel of limestone, thrown into the cupola in succession, and from time to time as required.
"When there is much sulphur in the iron a small quantity of the
black oxide of manganese may be blown in through the tuyeres,
and salt or litharge, or a mixture of any two or all three of these
ingredients, may be used in this manner with good effect. The
iron thus obtained is run into moulds in the usual way.
"What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by letterspatent, is the herein-described method of reducing iron from the
slag or refuse of blast or smelting furnaces, substantially as set
forth."

Oct. 1881.]

VINTON v. HAMILTON.

M,. Andrew McCallum for the appellants.
Mr. Thomas W. Sanderson for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE WooDs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is matter of general knowledge that pig-iron is made from
iron ore in a blast or smelting furnace; that to secure this
product the furnace is charged, first, with a layer of coke
or charcoal, then with a layer of iron ore, mixed with broken
limestone, and so on in alternate layers until the proper quantity
of these materials is placed in the furnace. The fuel is then
ignited, and, for the purpose of increasing the heat, streams of
air are forced into the furnace by means of blast-pipes, the
nozzles of which, called tuyeres, are inserted in openings in the
walls of the furnace, usually from four to six feet above its
bottom.
The limestone is used merely as a flux. The ore under this
process undergoes a chemical change, and iron is formed and
sinks in a molten state to the bottom of the hearth, by which
is meant not only the bottom of the furnace, but its sides as
high up as the foot of the boshes. The refuse left after the
melted iron has dropped into the hearth is also in a molten
state, and, being lighter than the iron, floats on its top. This
is indifferently called

"

cinder " and

"

slag."

About three or

four times in every twenty-four hours the melted iron is drawn
from the furnace. This is accomplished in the following manner: The furnace is constructed with two holes, one called the
iron and the other the cinder notch. The iron notch is made
at the bottom of the hearth. The cinder notch is higher up
the side of the furnace, just below the level of the tuyeres ; so
high that the cinder can be drawn through it without letting
off the molten iron. These holes are kept habitually closed
with clay or other similar material. At frequent intervals, and
always just before drawing off the molten iron, or making
a cast, as the ironmongers call it, the cinder notch is opened,
and the cinder or slag is allowed to escape, and is carried away
from the furnace in a trough made of moistened sand. The
cinder notch is then closed and the iron notch is opened, and
the molten iron is drawn off through a sand-trough, and con-

VINTON v. HAMILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

ducted into moulds made in sand-beds, called the sow and pigs,
where it is allowed to cool. The result is the pig-iron of
commerce.
In the mean time, the furnace is supplied with constant
charges of fuel and ore, mixed with limestone, in alternate
layers, dumped in from the top; and this process is kept up
without cessation for months and sometimes for years.
The sand-trough which connects the pig-beds with the iron
notch is usually larger and deeper, but more elevated than the
sow or general gutter which conducts the iron into the moulds
or grooves in the pig-beds. When the metal is first let into
the trough it accumulates so as to fill it nearly to the brim.
As the flow from the iron notch decreases, the iron, and a
small quantity of cinder or slag, which has been chilled by
coming in contact with the cold surface of the trough, adhere
to its sides and bottom. When the molten iron on the hearth
is about exhausted, the blast is increased, and the material left
on the hearth is blown out through the iron notch into the
sand-trough. This also cools in the trough, and thus is formed
what are known as trough runners, consisting of iron and slag,
which have been forced through the iron notch by letting on
the blast as just mentioned.
A cupola furnace is one used for melting pig-iron for the
purpose of casting it into useful forms and articles. It constitutes part of the equipment of a foundry. In shape it is generally a hollow cylinder. The iron is melted by substantially
the same process as the ore in a blast furnace. The cupola
furnace has an iron notch but no cinder notch, because there
is generally so little cinder or slag in pig-iron, as to render
such an opening unnecessary.
In order to reach the merits of the controversy, it is necessiiry
to obtain a definite idea of what, if anything, the appellants
are entitled to under Vinton's patent.
The specifications are ambiguous in respect to the particular
kind of slag which is to be used in the process therein described, that is to say, whether it is the slag drawn off through
the cinder notch, or the runners which are left in the trough
through which the molten iron is discharged from the iron
notch of a blast furnace. It appears, however, from the

Oct. 1881.]

VINTON V. HAMILTON.

evidence that the use of the latter only is contemplated, the
former containing such a very inconsiderable quantity of iron
as to be valueless.
We observe, in, the first place, that the patent cannot be held
to cover the discovery that the slag, which is to be used in the
process described in the specifications, contains so large a percentage of good metallic iron that it can be profitably extracted
by again smelting it.
The evidence shows beyond controversy that for many years
before Sept. 18, 1873, the earliest date assigned to the discovery or invention of Vinton, it had been well and generally
known that the trough runners contained a large proportion
of metallic iron, and they were brokeni up and resinelted in
blast furnaces. They were thrown into the furnace with scrap
iron and iron ore, and smelted in the same manner. It was
formerly a notion among old-fashioned furnace men, that the
u~e of this material injured the furnace, and deteriorated the
quality of the iron produced. But this conceit had been exploded long before the date of his patent, and the runners and
other heavy slag were used habitually in many blast furnaces
as above stated.
Secondly, The use of a cupola furnace for the purpose of
resmelting trough runners and heavy slag cannot be claimed
as any part of Vinton's invention. The evidence in the record
shows that as early as the year 1844, at the Jackson furnace,
in Venango County, Pennsylvania, which was a blast furnace,
a cupola furnace was erected and used for the purpose of
smelting heavy slag, from which was manufactured plow-points
and hollow-ware, such as skillets, pots, and Dutch-ovens.
Sometimes the product was made into pig-iron. This cupola
furnace was thus used for three or four years. The fact of
such use was public; no effort was made to keep it secret, and
it was known, in the language of the witnesses, "all around
the furnace."
The testimony of Robert Paisley, William J. Shaner, and
Thomas AV. Kennedy, which is found in the record, shows that
the Beaver Falls Co-operative Foundry Association, in April,
1872, made the experiment of using slag and runners in their
cupola furnace; and the experiment proving successful, the

VINTON

v.

HAMILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

runners, as early as August, 1872, were procured by the carload, and mixed with pig-iron and run into stove-plates. In
this way fifty-eight or sixty tons of runners were used prior to
Oct. 14, 1873, the date of Vinton's patent. .
This use of heavy slag and runners was open and public.
No one was excluded from the foundry where the work was
carried on. Any one was at liberty to enter and see what was
going on, and persons not interested in the furnace -among
them the witness Thomas W. Kennedy- did so. No injunction of secrecy was imposed on them. It is true the operatives
at the furnace, who were all stockholders of the association,
said nothing about the use they were making of trough runners, because, as they said, if it was a good thing, they wanted
to keep it to themselves; but they took no steps to keep it a
secret, except that they did not talk about it. In fact, it was
at the suggestion of Kennedy that the Beaver Falls Co-operative Foundry Association made the experiment of melting runners and heavy slag in their cupola furnace.
After the experiment made by the Beaver Falls Co-operative
Foundry Association in April, 1872, had proved successful,
Kennedy, in August, 1873, furnished the defendant, Hamilton,
with a quantity of trough runners to be snelted in his cupola
furnace, and before Oct. 1, 1873, had sold to foundrymen not
less than one hundred tons of the same material to be used for
the same purpose.
In fact, the record shows that Kennedy, more than a year
before the date of Vinton's patent, revived the practice of
smelting trough runners and heavy slag in a cupola furnace.
As early as the spring of 1872 he declared to the defendant,
-amilton, Thomas Struthers, and others the feasibility of the
process, and suggested to Struthers that they ought to take out
a patent for it. But Struthers said that unless they could
get up some new way of extracting the iron it would not be
patentable, and that was the conclusion they came to after
talking the matter over. But Kennedy at once, in the spring
of 1872, commenced buying up the trough runners from the
blast furnaces, and selling them to foundrymen for use in
cupola furnaces.
It is, therefore, abundantly shown in the record that before

Oct. 1881.]

VINTON

V. HAMILTON.

the date of Vinton's patent, or of his invention, the smelting of
trough runners and other heavy slag in cupola furnaces was
practised and well known.
Thirdly, The .method of making slag granulous or spongy by
passing water or air through it when in a molten state is not
new, nor is it claimed to be new. Besides, there is no evidence
that this process is used by the appellees.
Fourthly, The method of charging the cupola furnace and
of smelting the slag as described in the specification of the
patent is as old as the art of making pig-iron, except, perhaps,
the sprinkling of scale or black oxide of iron on the top of the
coke, and this is not done by the appellees.
Tiftlty, The appellants do not claim that Vinton's invention
covers a cupola furnace. A review of the case shows, therefore, that he did not first discover the value of furnace runners
or heavy slag for resmelting, that he was not the first to smelt
them and use them for running into pigs or castings, either in
a blast furnace or a cupola furnace, and that there is nothing
new in his process of smelting which is used by the appellees.
All, therefore, that is left for his invention to cover, and
which the appellants can claim as infringed by the appellees, is
the employment of a cinder notch or hole in a cupola furnace
to draw off the cinder when the furnace is employed in smelting
furnace runners or heavy slag. But if the testimony of nnimpeached and uncontradicted witnesses is to be believed, as
early as June, 1872, at Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania, a cinder
notch was used by the Beaver Falls Co-operative Association
in a cupola furnace when employed in smelting furnace runners. The notch was put in the cupola at the suggestion of
the witness, Thomas W. Kennedy, who was not a member of
the association, but who, being the owner of a blast furnace,
was selling to it furnace runners to be resmelted and used for
making castings. He testifies to the fact distinctly and
clearly, and designates the part of the cupola where the notch
was placed, namely, " between the tuyeres at the back of the
cupola to draw off the slag." He is fully corroborated by the
witness, W. J. Shaner, a member of the association, whose
business was to do the smelting.

VINTON V. HAMILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

This use of the cinder notch in the cupola was public. No
effort was made to exclude spectators from the foundry or to
conceal the notch. The invention, therefore, of a cinder notch
in a cupola furnace, if it was an invention at all, was made
by Thomas W. Kennedy fifteen months before Vinton, according to his own testimony, ever conceived the idea; and
Kennedy, during all that time, allowed it to be used by others,
without any injunction or secrecy or any restriction or limitation, in a foundry which was open to all who might choose to
visit it, and which was-visited by many spectators not concerned in its operations.
But even if the application of a cinder notch to a cupola
furnace was first made by Vinton, the question remains
whether, standing alone, it implies invention and is patentable.
We think that this question must be answered in the negative. Neither a cupola furnace nor a cinder notch is new.
The use of a cinder notch for drawing off cinders from a blast
furnace is as old as blast furnaces themselves. The function
which the cinder notch performs in the process covered by
Vinton's invention is precisely the same for which it is used
in a blast furnace. In smelting slag in a cupola furnace it
was found that the molten cinder accumulated and floated
on the top of the molten iron. The application to a cupola
furnace, for the purpose of drawing off the cinder, of the
cinder notch used in the blast furnace to accomplish the
same end, would occur to any practical man. When applied to a cupola furnace the same function was performed
in the same way by the same means. In making this application there was no invention. Pearce v. Julford, 102 U. S.
112.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the application of a cinder notch to a cupola furnace for the purpose designated is
neither patentable nor new, and that all the other parts of
the process and appliances covered by Vinton's patent were
old and well known long before the date of his alleged invention and the patent therefor. He was not the first inventor,
either in fact or in law, of the discovery or invention described in his letters-patent. They are, therefore, void, and

Oct. 1881.]

BANK v. TENNESSEE.

the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was right,
and must be
Affirmed.
Mn. JUSTICE MATTHEWS did not sit in this case nor take
any part in its decision.

BANK v.

TENNESSEE.

A bank, by its charter, is required to "pay to the State an annual tax of one-half
of one per cent on each share of capital stock, which shall be in lieu of all
other taxes," and is authorized to "purchase and hold a lot of ground" for its
use "as a place of business," and hold such real property as may be conveyed to it to secure its debts. With a portion of its capital stock it purchased at lot with a building thereon, a portion of which it occupies as a
place of business. It took, to secure money loaned, a deed of trust upon
three city lots, which it subsequently purchased under this deed, and now
owns. IHeld, that the immunity from taxation extends only to so much of
the building, the use whereof is required by the actual wants of the bank in
carrying on its business. The remainder of its real estate is subject to taxation.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
lr.
William Y. C. Humes for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Benjamin J. Lea, Attorney-General of Tennessee,
contra.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The Bank of. Commerce, plaintiff in this case, is a corporation created in 1856 by the legislature of Tennessee to engage
in the business of discounting notes, buying and selling stock,
dealing in exchange and gold and silver bullion, and receiving
moneys on deposit. Its charter provides that it " may purchase
and hold a lot of ground for the use of the institution as a
place of business, and at pleasure sell and exchange the same,
and may hold such real or personal property and estate as may
be conveyed to it to secure debts due the institution, and may
sell and convey the same." The charter also declares that the

