HAWES V. OAKLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

HAWES v. OAKLAND.
1. A shareholder in the Contra Costa Water-works Company brought his bill
in equity against the city of Oakland, the company, and its directors, alleging that the company was furnishing the city with water, free of charge,
beyond what the law required it to do, and that the directors, contrary to
his request, continued to do so, to the great injury of himself, the other
shareholders, and the company. Held, that in such a case there must
be shown : 1. Some action or threatened action of the directors or trustees
which is beyond the authority conferred by the charter, or the law under
which the company was organized; or, 2. Such a fraudulent transaction,
completed or threatened, by them, either among themselves or with some
other party, or with shareholders, as will result in serious injury to the
company or the other shareholders; or, 3. That the directors, or a majority
of them, are acting for their own interests, in a manner destructive of the
company, or of the rights of the other shareholders; or, 4. That the majority of shareholders are oppressively and illegally pursuing, in the name
of the company, a course in violation of the rights of the other shareholders,
which can only be restrained by a court of equity. 5. It must also be made
to appear that the complainant made an earnest effort to obtain redress at
the hands of the directors and shareholders of the corporation, and that the
ownership of the stock was vested in him at the time of the transactions of
which he compains, or was. thereafter transferred to him by operation of
law.
2. It is the duty of the Circuit Court to dismiss the suit if the parties thereto
have been improperly or collusively made or joined for the purpose of
creating a case of which that court would have cognizance.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

N>. Charles N. Fo for the appellant.
Mr. henry Vrooman for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree in chancery dismissing the
complainant's bill, wherein he, a citizen of New York, alleges
that he is a stockholder in the Contra Costa Water-works
Company, a California corporation, and that he files it on
behalf of himself and all other stockholders who may choose
to come in and contribute to the costs and expenses of the
suit.
The defendants are the city of Oakland, the Contra Costa
Water-works Company, and Anthony Chabot, Henry Pierce,

Oct. 1881.]

1HAWES V. OAKLAND.

Andrew J. Pope, Charles Holbrook, and John W. Coleman,
trustees and directors of the company.
The foundation of the complaint is that the city of Oakland
claims at the hands of the company water, without compensation, for all municipal purposes whatever, including watering
the streets, public squares and parks, flushing sewers, and the.
like, whereas it is only entitled to receive water free of charge
in eases of fire or other great necessity; that the company
comply with this demand, to the great loss and injury of the
company, to the diminution of the dividends which should
come to him and other stockholders, and to the decrease in
the value of their stock. The allegation of his attempt to get
the directors to correct this evil will be given in the language
of the bill.
He says that "on the tenth day of July, 1878, he applied to the president and board of directors or trustees of
said water company, and requested them to desist from their
illegal and improper practices aforesaid, and to limit the supply of water free of charge to said city to cases of fire or
other great necessity, and that said board should take immediate proceedings to prevent said city from taking water
from the works of said company for any other purpose without compensation ; but said board of directors and trustees
have wholly declined to take any proceedings whatever in the
premises, and threaten to go on and furnish water to the extent
of said company's means to said city of Oakland free of
charge, for all municipal purposes, as has heretofore been done,
and in cases other than cases of fire or other great necessity,
except as for family uses hereinbefore referred to; and your
orator avers that by reason of the premises said water company and your orator and the other stockholders thereof have
suffered, and will, by a continuance of said acts, hereafter
suffer, great loss and damage."
To this bill the water-works company and the directors failed
to make answer; and the city of Oakland filed a demurrer,
which was sustained by the court and the bill dismissed. The
complainant appealed.
Two grounds of demurrer were set out and relied on in the
court below, and are urged upon us on this appeal. They are: -

HAWES

V. OAKLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

1. That appellant has shown no capacity in himself to maintain this suit, the injury, if any exists, being to the interests of
the corporation, and the right to sue belonging solely to that
body.
2. That by a sound construction of the law under which the
company is organized the city of Oakland is entitled to receive,
free of compensation, all the water which the bill charges it
with so using.
The first of these causes of demurrer presents a matter of
very great interest, and of growing importance in the courts of
the United States.
Since the decision of this court in Dodge v. Woolsey (18
How. 331), the principles of which have received more than
once the approval of this court, the frequency with which the
most ordinary and usual chancery remedies are sought in the
Federal courts by a single stockholder of a corporation who
possesses the requisite citizenship, in cases where the corporation whose rights are to be enforced cannot sue in those courts,
seems to justify a consideration of the grounds on which that
case was decided, and of the just limitations of the exercise of
those principles.
This practice has grown until the corporations created by
the laws of the States bring a large part of their controversies
with their neighbors and fellow-citizens into the courts of the
United States for adjudication, instead of resorting to the State
courts, which are their natural, their lawful, and their appropriate forum. It is not difficult to see how this has come to pass.
A corporation having such a controversy, which it is foreseen
must end in litigation, and preferring for any reason whatever
that this litigation shall take place in a Federal court, in which
it can neither sue its real antagonist nor be sued by it, has
recourse to a holder of one of its shares, who is a citizen of
another State. This stockholder is called into consultation,
and is told that his corporation has rights which the directors
refuse to enforce or to protect. He instantly demands of them
to do their duty in this regard, which of course they fail or
refuse to do, and thereupon he discovers that he has two causes
of action entitling him to equitable relief in a court of chancery ; namely, one against his own company, of which he is a

Oct. 1881.]

HAWES V. OAKLAND.

corporator, for refusing to do what he has requested them to
do; and the other against the party which contests the matter
in controversy with that corporation. These two causes of
action he combines in an equity suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States, because he is a citizen of a different State,
though the real parties to the controversy could have no standing in that court. If no non-resident stockholder exists, a
transfer of a few shares is made to some citizen of another
State, who then brings the suit. The real defendant in this
action may be quite as willing to have the case tried in the
Federal court as the corporation and its stockholder. If so, he
makes no objection, and the case proceeds to a hearing. Or he
may file his answer denying the special grounds set up in the
bill as a reason for the stockholder's interference, at the same
time that he answers to the merits. In either event the whole
case is prepared for hearing on the merits, the right of the
stockholder to a standing in equity receives but little attention, and the overburdened courts of the United States have
this additional important litigation imposed upon them by a
simulated and conventional arrangement, unauthorized by the
facts of the case or by the sound principles of equity jurisdiction.
That the vast and increasing proportion of the active business of modern life which is done by corporations should call
into exercise the beneficent powers and flexible methods of
courts of equity, is neither to be wondered at nor regretted;
and this is especially true of controversies growing out of the
relations between the stockholder and the corporation of which
he is a member. The exercise of this power in protecting the
stockholder against the frauds of the governing body of directors or trustees, and in preventing their exercise, in the name
of the corporation, of powers which are outside of their charters or articles of association, has been frequent, and is most
beneficial, and is undisputed. These are real contests, however, between the stockholder and the corporation of which he
is a member.
The case before us goes beyond this.
This corporation, like others, is created a body politic and
corporate, that it may in' its corporate name transact all the

HAWES V. OAKLAND.

[Sup. CL.

business which its charter or other organic act authorizes it
to do.
Such corporations may be common carriers, bankers, insurers, merchants, and may make contracts, commit torts, and
incur liabilities, and may sue or be sued in their corporate
name in regard to all of these transactions. The parties who
deal with them understand this, and that they are dealing
with a body which has these rights and is subject to these
obligations, and they do not deal with or count upon a liability
to the stockholder whom they do not know and with whom
they have no privity of contract or other relation.
The principle involved in the case of Dodge v. Woolsey permits the stockholder in one of these corporations to step in
between that corporation and the party with whom it has been
dealing and institute and control a suit in which the rights involved are those of the corporation, and the controversy is one
really between that corporation and the other party, each being
entirely capable of asserting its own rights.
This is a very different affair from a controversy between
the shareholder of a corporation and that corporation itself, or
its managing directors or trustees, or the other shareholders,
who may be violating his rights or destroying the property in
which he has an interest. Into such a contest the outsider,
dealing with the corporation through its managing agents in a
matter within their authority, cannot be dragged, except where
it is necessary to prevent an absolute failure of justice in cases
which have been recognized as exceptional in their character
and calling for the extraordinary powers of a court of equity.
It is, therefore, always a question of equitable jurisprudence,
and as such has, within the last forty years, received the repeated consideration of the highest courts of England and of
this country.
The earliest English case in which this subject received any
very careful consideration is Fos.9 v. Harbottle (2 Hare, 461),
where Vice-Chancellor Wigram gave a very full and able opinion. The case was decided in 1843 on a demurrer to the bill,
which was brought by Foss and Turton, two shareholders in
an incorporation called the Victoria Park Company, on behalf
of themselves and all other stockholders, except those who

Oct. 1881.]

O HAWES V. OAKLAND.

were made defendants, against the directors and one shareholder not a director, and against the solicitor and architect of
the company. The bill charged that the defendants concerted
and effected various fraudulent and illegal transactions, whereby
the property of the company was misapplied, aliened, and
wasted; that there had ceased to be a sufficient number of
qualified directors to constitute a board; and that the company
had no clerk or office. It prayed for the appointment of a
receiver and for a decree against the defendants to make good
the loss. After showing that the case was one in which the
right of action was in the company, the Vice-Chancellor says:
"In law the corporation and the aggregate members of the
corporation are not the same thing for purposes like this;
and the only question can be, whether the facts alleged in
this case justify a departure from the rule which prina facie
would require that the corporation should sue in its own name
and in its corporate character, or in the name of some one
whom the law has appointed to be its representative." Again,
after pointing out that cases may arise where the claims of
justice would be found superior to the technical rules respecting the mode in which corporations are required to sue, he
adds:"But, on the other hand, it must not be without reasons of
a very urgent character that the established rules of law and
practice are to be departed from, - rules which, though in a
sense technical, are founded on the general principles of justice
and convenience; and the question is, whether a case is stated
in this bill entitling the plaintiffs to sue in their private characters." He then, in an elaborate argument, holds that the
bill is fatally defective because it does not aver that there is
no acting or de facto board of directors who might have ordered
the bringing of this suit ; and, secondly, that it was the duty
of the plaintiffs - the two shareholders who complain of what
had been done -to have called a meeting of the shareholders
or attended at some regular annual meeting, and obtained the
action of a majority on the matters in issue. The majority,
he says, may have been content with what was done, and may
have ratified the action of the board, in which case the whole
body would have been bound by it.

IIAWES v. OAKLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

The demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed.
In the subsequent case of Jozley v. Alston (1 Ph. 790),
decided in 1847, Lord Chancellor Lyndhurst says that "the
observations of the Vice-Chancellor in Foss v. Harbottle correctly represent what is the principle and practice of the
court in reference to suits of this description."
These cases have been referred to again and again in the
English courts as leading cases on the subject to which they
relate, and always with approval.
In Gray v. Lewis, decided in 1873, Sir W. M. James, L. J.,
said: "I am of opinion that the only person, if you may call
it a person, having a right to complain was the incorporated
society called Charles Lafitte & Co. In its corporate character
it was liable to be sued and was entitled to sue; and if the
company sued in its corporate character, the defendant might
allege a release or a compromise by the company in its corporate character, - a defence which would not be open in a
suit where a plaintiff is suing on behalf of himself and other
shareholders. I think it is of the utmost importance to maintain the rule laid down in Mozley v. Alston and Foss v. Harbottle, to which, as I understand, the only exception is where
the corporate body has got into the hands of directors, and
of the majority, which directors and majority are using their
power for the purpose of doing something fraudulent against
the minority, who are overpowered by them, as in Atwood v.
lerryweat7her, where Vice-Chancellor Wood sustained a bill
by a shareholder on behalf of himself and others, and there it
was after an attempt had been made to obtain proper authority
from the corporate body itself in a public meeting assembled."
Law Rep. 8 Ch. App. 1035.
But perhaps the best assertion of the rule and of the exceptions to it are found in the opinion of the court by the same
learned justice in MacDougall v. Gardiner, i 1875, 1 Ch. D.
13. " I am of opinion," he says, " that this demurrer ought to
be allowed. I think it is of the utmost importance in all these
controversies that the rule which is well known in this court as
the rule in Mozley v. Alston, and Lord v. Copper Miners' Company, and Foss v. llarbottle, should always be adhered to; that is
to say, that nothing connected with internal disputes between

06t. 1881.1

1AWES V OAKLAND.

shareholders is to be made the subject of a bill by some
one shareholder on behalf of himself and others, unless there
be something illegal, oppressive, or fraudulent; unless there is
something ultra vires on the part of the company qad company,
or on the part of the majority of the company, so that they are
not fit persons to determine it, but that every litigation must
be in the name of the company, if the company really desire it.
Because there may be a great many wrongs committed in a
company, -- there may be claims against directors, there may
be claims against officers, there may be claims against debtors;
there may be a variety of things which a company may well be
entitled to complain of, but which, as a matter of good sense,
they do not think it right to make the subject of litigation;
and it is the company, as a company, which has to determine
whether it will make anything that is a wrong to the company
a subject-matter of litigation, or whether it will take steps to
prevent the wrong from being done."
The cases in the English courts are numerous, but the foregoing citations give the spirit of them correctly.
In this country the cases outside of the Federal courts are
not numerous, and while they admit the right of a stockholder
to sue in cases where the corporation is the proper party to
bring the suit, they limit this right to cases where the directors
are guilty of a fraud or a breach of trust, or are proceeding
ultra vires. Marsh v. EYastern Railroad Co., 40 N. H. 548 ; Peabody v. Flint, 6 Allen (Mass.), 52. In Brewer v. Boston Theatre (104 Mass. 378), the general doctrine and its limitations
are very well stated. See also Hersey v. Veazie, 24 Me. 9;
and Samuel v. Holladay, 1 Woolw. 400.
The case of -Dodge v. Woolsey, decided in this court in 1855,
is, however, the leading case on the subject in this country.
And we do not believe, notwithstanding some expressions in
the opinion, that it is justly chargeable with the abuses we
have mentioned. It was manifestly well considered, and the
opinion is unusually long, discussing the point now under consideration with a full reference to the decisions then made in the
courts of England. The suit - a bill in chancery - was brought
in the Circuit Court for the District of Ohio, by Woolsey, a
stockholder of the Commercial Bank of Cleveland, and a citizen

HAWES V. OAKLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

of Connecticut, against that bank, its managing directors, and
Dodge, tax-collector of the county in which the bank was situated, citizens of Ohio. The bill alleged that Dodge had levied
upon property of the bank to make collection of a tax, which,
by the Constitution of the State of Ohio, the bank was bound
to pay; that in that respect the Constitution, then recently
adopted, impaired the obligation of the contract of the State
with the bank, contained in its charter. It appeared in the
case that Woolsey had, by letter directed to the board of directors, requested them to institute proceedings to prevent the
collection of this tax; but the board, by a resolution, declined
to take any such action, while expressing their opinion that
the tax was illegal. In the opinion of the court, reciting the
circumstances which justified its interposition at the suit of
the stockholder, the allegation of the bill is adverted to, that
if the taxes are enforced it will annul the contract with the
State concerning taxation, and that the tax is so onerous upon
the banle that it will compel a suspension and final cessation of
its business. The following extract from Angell & Ames on
Corporations is cited with approval: "Though the result of the
authorities clearly is that in a corporation, when acting within
the scope of, and in obedience to, the provisions of its constitution, the will of the majority, clearly expressed, must govern,
yet beyond the limits of the act of incorporation the will of the
majority cannot make the act valid, and the power of a court
of equity may be put in motion at the instance of a single
shareholder, if he can show that the corporation are employing
their statutory powers for the accomplishment of purposes not
within the scope of their institution. Yet it is to be observed
that there is an important distinction between this class of
cases and those in which there is no breach of trust, but only
error and misapprehension or simple negligence on the part of
the directors." And the court adds : "It is obvious from this
rule that the circumstances of each case must determine the
jurisdiction of a court of equity to give the relief sought."
A very large part of the opinion is devoted to the consideration of the high function of this court in construing the Constitution of the United States, and it is impossible not to see
the influence on the mind of the writer of that opinion of the

Oct. 1881.]

O AWES V. OAKLAND.

fact that the only question on the merits of the case was one
which peculiarly belonged to the Federal judiciary, and especially to this court to decide; namely, whether the Constitution
of the State of Ohio violated the obligation of the contract
concerning taxation found in the charter of the bank.
As the law then stood there was no means by which the
bank, being a citizen of the same State with Dodge, the taxcollector, could bring into a court of the United States the
right which it asserted under the Constitution, to be relieved
of the tax in question, except by writ of error to a State court
from the Supreme Court of the United States.
That difficulty no longer exists, for by the act of March 3,
18.75, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470), all suits arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States may be brought
originally in the Circuit Courts of the United States without
regard to the citizenship of the parties. Under this statute, if
it had then existed, the bank, in Dodge v. Woolsey, could undoubtedly have brought suit to restrain the collection of the
tax in its own name, without resort to one of its shareholders
for that purpose.
And this same statute, while enlarging the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Courts in cases fairly within the constitutional grant of
power to the Federal judiciary, strikes a blow, by its fifth section, at improper and collusive attempts to impose upon those
courts the cognizance of cases not justly belonging to them.
It declares, if at any time in the progress of a case, either
originally commenced in a Circuit Court, or removed there
from a State court, it shall appear to said court "that such
suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court,
or that the parties to said suit have been improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for
the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable under
this act, the said Circuit Court shall proceed no further, but
shall dismiss the suit or remand it to the court from which it
was removed."
It is believed that a rigid enforcement of this statute by the
Circuit Courts would relieve them of many cases which have no
proper place on their dockets.

HAWES V. OAKLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

This examination of Dodge v. Woolsey satisfies us that it
does not establish, nor was it intended to establish, a doctrine
on this subject different in any material respect from that
found in the cases in the English and in other American
courts, and that the recent legislation of Congress referred to
leaves no reason for any expansion of the rule in that case
beyond its fair interpretation.
We understand that doctrine to be that to enable a stockholder in a corporation to sustain in a court of equity in his own
name, a suit founded on a right of action existing in the corporation itself, and in which the corporation itself is the appropriate plaintiff, there must exist as the foundation of the suit Some action or threatened action of the managing board of
directors or trustees of the corporation which is beyond the
authority conferred on them by their charter or other source
of organization ;
Or such a fraudulent transaction completed or contemplated
by the acting managers, in connection with some other party,
or among themselves, or with other shareholders as will result
in serious injury to the corporation, or to the interests of the
other shareholders ;
Or where the board of directors, or a majority of them, are
acting for their own interest, in a manner destructive of the
corporation itself, or of the rights of the other shareholders;
Or where the majority of shareholders themselves are oppressively and illegally pursuing a course in the name of the
corporation, which is in violation of the rights of the other
shareholders, and which can only be restrained by the aid of a
court of equity.
Possibly other cases may arise in which, to prevent irremediable injury, or a total failure of justice, the court would be
justified in exercising its powers, but the foregoing may be regarded as an outline of the principles which govern this class
of cases.

But, in addition to the existence of grievances which call for
this kind of relief, it is equally important that before the shareholder is permitted in his own name to institute and conduct
a litigation which usually belongs to the corporation, he should
show to the satisfaction of the court that he has exhausted all

Oct. 1881.]

HAWES V. OAKLAND.

the means within his reach to obtain, within the corporation
itself, the redress of his grievances, or action in conformity to
his wishes. He must make an earnest, not a simulated effort,
with the managing body of the corporation, to induce remedial action on their part, and this must be made apparent to
the court. If time permits or has permitted, be must show, if
he fails with the directors, that he has made an honest effort
to obtain action by the stockholders as a body, in the matter
of which he complains. And he must show a case, if this is
not done, where it could not be done, or it was not reasonable
to require it.
The efforts to induce such action as complainant desires on
the part of the directors, and of the shareholders when that is
necessary, and the cause of failure in these efforts should be
stated with particularity, and an allegation that complainant
was a shareholder at the time of the transactions of which he
complains, or that his shares have devolved on him since by
operation of law, and that the suit is not a collusive one to
confer on a court of the United States jurisdiction in a case
of which it could otherwise have no cognizance, should be in
the bill, which should be verified by affidavit.
It is needless to say that appellant's bill presents no such
case as we have here supposed to be necessary to the jurisdiction of the court.
He merely avers that he requested the president and directors to desist from furnishing water free of expense to the
city, except in case of fire or other great necessity, and that
they declined to do as he requested. No correspondence on
the subject is given. No reason for declining. We have here
no allegation of a meeting of the directors, in which the matter
was formally laid before them for action. No attempt to consult the other shareholders to ascertain their opinions, or
obtain their action. But within five days after his application to the directors this bill is filed. There is no allegation
of fraud or of acts ultra vireq, or of destruction of property,
or of irremediable injury of any kind.
Conceding appellant's coilstruction of the company's charter
to be correct, there is nothing which forbids the corporation
from dealing with the city in the manner it has done. That

ROSENBLATT V. JOHNSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

city conferred on the company valuable rights by special ordinance; namely, the use of the streets for laying its pipes, and
the privilege of furnishing water to the whole population. It
may be the exercise of the highest wisdom to let the city use
the water in the manner complained of. The directors are
better able to act understandingly on this subject than a
stockholder residing in New York. The great body of the
stockholders residing in Oakland or other places in California
may take this view of it, and be content to abide by the action
of their directors.
If this be so, is a bitter litigation with the city to be conducted by one stockholder for the corporation and all other
stockholders, because the amount of his dividends is diminished?
This question answers itself, and without considering the other
point raised by the demurrer, we are of opinion that it was
properly sustained, and the bill dismissed, because the appelright in himlant shows no standing in a court of equity -no
suit.
self to prosecute this
Decree affirmed.

ROSENBLATT V. JOHNSTON.
The personal property of an insolvent national bank in the hands of a receiver
appointed pursuant to sect. 5234 of the Revised Statutes is exempt from
taxation under State laws.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
This is a bill in equity, filed Sept. 30, 1880, by Rosenblatt,
collector of the city of St. Louis, against Johnston, receiver of
the National Bank of the State of Missouri.
The bank was duly incorporated pursuant to the act of
Congress of June 3, 1864, c. 106. (13 Stat. p. 99), and the acts
amendatory thereof, and had its situs in that city. It suspended
payment June 9, 1877. Shortly thereafter Johnston was, by
the Comptroller of the Currency, appointed such receiver. He
then took possession of its assets, and disposed of them in the

