THOMIPSON V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

fled that the effort to prosecute it in the Circuit Court of the
United States, with the misjoinder of some parties and the nonjoinder of others, - with the connection of matters totally distinct in the right asserted and the relief sought, - and with
the principal party complainant entitled to no relief there, is
attended with insuperable difficulties, and that the bill was
properly dismissed.
.Decree affrmed.

THOMPSON V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
1. The payment of the annual premium upon a policy of life insurance is a condition subsequent, the non-performance of which may or may not, according to circumstances, work a forfeiture of the policy.
2. Where the policy provides that it shall be forfeited upon the failure of the
assured to pay the annual premium ad diem, or to pay at maturity his
promissory note therefor, the acceptance by the company of the note,
although a waiver of such payment of the premium, brings into operation
so much of the condition as relates to the note.
8. The omission of the company to give notice, according to its usage, of the
day upon which the note will be due is not an excuse for non-payment.
Insurance Company v. Egqleston (96 U. S. 572) distinguished.
4. A parol agreement entered into at the time of giving and accepting such note
cannot be set up to contradict the terms of the note and policy.
5. The failure to pay or tender the amount due on the note held in this case to
be fatal to a recovery on the policy.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
This was an action on a policy of insurance for $5,000, issued
by the Knickerbocker Life Insurance Company, the defendant
in error, on the life of John Y. Thompson, for the benefit of
his wife, Ruth E. Thompson, the plaintiff in error. The policy bore date Jan. 24, 1870, and was to continue during his
life, in consideration of an annual premium of $410.20, payable on or before the twenty-fourth day of January in every
year. He died Nov. 3, 1874. The complaint was in the
usual form, setting forth the contract contained in the policy, his death, and the performance of the conditions of the
policy by him and the plaintiff. The company pleaded the
ERROR

Oct. !881.]

THOMPSON V. INSURANCE CO.

general issue, and two special pleas, which set up in substance
the same defence. The second plea, after setting forth the provisions of the policy for the payment of the annual premium,
proceeds as follows: -.
"Under said policy an annual credit or loan of a portion of
said premium was provided for, and said policy also contained
a condition or proviso that the omission to pay the said annual
premium on or before twelve o'clock noon on the day or days
above designated for the payment thereof, or that the failure
to pay at maturity any note, obligation, or indebtedness (other
than the annual credit or loan) for premium or interest due
under said policy or contract, shall then and thereafter cause
said policy to be void without notice to any party or parties
interested therein.
"The defendant further says that the said annual premium
was not paid on or before the tweuty-fourth day of January,
A. D. 1874, and thereupon the defendant did give time for the
payment of said premium upon the condition named in the
note hereinafter mentioned, and for the payment of said premium did take certain promissory notes of said Thompson, one
of which was as follows: "8109.]
NEW YoRK, Jan'y 24th, 1874.
"Nine months after date, without grace, I promise to pay to the
Knickerbocker Life Insurance Company one hundred and nine
dollars, at Mobile, Alabama, value received, in premium on policy
No. 2334, which policy is to be void in case this note is not paid at
maturity, according to contract in said policy.
"No. 2334 was an error, No. 2331 being intended."
It then avers that the note was not paid when it became
due, Oct. 24, 1874, and that by reason thereof the policy became void and of no effect before the death of the assured.
To these plems four replications were filed, numbered 2, 3,
4, and 5, as follows: " 2d, That the said policy of insurance was renewed by said
defendant on the twenty-fourth day of January, 1874, and continned in force until Jan. 24, 1875. That the payment of said
note at maturity was not a condition precedent as alleged.
That the said Thompson had the money in hand, was ready

THoMPsoN V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and willing and intended to pay said note, but that before the
maturity thereof he was taken violently ill, and before and at
the time the same fell due was in bed, prostrated by a fatal
disease, and in this condition remained until he died on the
third day of November, 1874 ; that during all this time he
was mentally and physically incapable of attending to his
business, or knowing of and performing his obligations, and
was non compos mentis ; that the existence of said note was
not known to the plaintiff.
" 3d, That it was, and had been for many years before, and
on the day said note fell due, the uniform usage and custom of
said defendant in such cases to give notice of the day of payment to its policy-holders ; such is and was the uniform usage
and custom with all insurance companies, and the said defendant had in all cases adopted and acted on said usage, and in all
its dealings with said Thompson had adhered to said usage,
and gave notice of the day when such payments fell due ; yet
said defendant in this case failed to give any notice of the day
of payment of said note, notwithstanding they knew said
Thompson was in the city of Mobile, and was sick. Plaintiff avers that said Thompson was ready and willing to pay,
had said notice been served as in previous cases, but acting on
said usage he was deceived by want of said notice, and that
the plaintiff had no notice of the existence of said note, or
when the same fell due, wherefore and whereby said note was
not paid.
"4th, That on the twenty-fourth day of January, 1874, said
policy was renewed and entered in fall force for one year, to
wit, until Jan. 24, 1875. That said note was for the balance
of the premium of that year, which defendant agreed should
be deferred and paid as set out on said note; that by said
agreement said policy was not to become void on the non-payment of the note alone at maturity as alleged in said plea, but
was to become void at the instance and election of said defendant, and plaintiff avers that said defendant did not elect to
cancel said policy or take any steps to avoid it or give any
notice of such intention during the life of said John Y. Thompson, or since, and still holds said note against said estate of
said Thompson.

Oct. 1881.]

THoMPSoN V. INSURANCE CO.

255

"5th, And for further replication to the first and second
special pleas by said defendant pleaded, plaintiff says that it
was the general usage and custom adopted by said defendants,
and practised by them befoi'e and after the making of said
note, not to demand punctual payment of such premium notes
on the days they fell due, but to give days of grace thereon,
to wit, for thirty days thereafter, and the said defendants had
repeatedly so done with said Thompson and others, and they
led said Thompson to believe and rely on such leniency in this
case, and thereby said Thompson was deceived, and said note
not paid, and he did rely on them for such notice."
Demurrers to these replications were sustained by the court.
The case was then tried upon the plea of the general issue.
On the rejection of evidence at the trial, the same questions
presented by the replications were raised. Exceptions were
taken in due form and preserved on the record.
There was a judgment for the defendant. The plaintiff
thereupon sued out this writ of error.
Mr. J. I-ubley Ashton and Mr. Thomas N. Mc Cartney for the
plaintiff in error.
The policy having been renewed and continued in force by
the company for a year on Jan. 24, 1874, when the note in
question was given, the payment of that note, if a condition at
all, was a condition subsequent operating by way of defeasance,
and mere non-payment ad diem was not alone sufficient to effect
an absolute forfeiture of the insurance. -InsuranceCompany v.
French, 30 Ohio St. 240.
The whole contract evidenced by the policy and the note,
taken together, means, that, after the renewal receipt was
given, the policy was voidable at the option of the company,
and unless a forfeiture should be asserted and declared, at the
proper time, the insurance remained. The case is essentially
different from a purely unilateral contract, where the risk has
not fully attached for the particular year in which the death
occurred, and is like a release which is subject to be avoided
by the happening of a condition subsequent, as, for example,
the non-payment of a composition. The release is good and
operative, unless itself subsequently avoided. Newington v.
Levy, Law Rep. 5 C. P. 607.

THOMPSON V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

The distinction between a precedent and a subsequent condition is as well marked in this contract as in others. Giddings v. Insurance Company, 102 U. S. 108; 2 Langdell, Cases
on Contracts, p. 1009. There are no technical words whereby
such conditions are distinguished. The governing rule is the
fair intention of the parties to be collected from the transaction. Porterv. Shepard, 6 T. R. 668; Finlay v. King's Lessee,
3 Pet. 346; Nicoll v. New York & Erie Railroad Co., 12 N. Y.
121.
In the present case it cannot be supposed that it was intended that the mere non-payment of a fractional part of the
premium ad diem should operate as the non-performance of a
condition precedent. It would be unconscionable and oppressive to give the contract that effect. Pordaqe v. Cole, 1 Wins.
Saund. 320 b; Campbell v. Jones, 6 T. R. 570; Boone v. Eyre,
1 H. Bl. 273, note; 2 W. Bl. 1312; Graves v. Leyg, 9 Ex. 709;
-Ellenv. Topp, 6 id. 424.
The condition in question being at most a condition subsequent operating by way of defeasance, its performance was excused by the inevitable accident alleged by the plaintiff, and
the liability of the company became absolute, in accordance
with settled principles of jurisprudence. People v. Bartlett,
3 Hill (N. Y.), 570; People v. Manning, 8 Cow. (N. Y.) 297;
Carpenter v. Stevens, 12 Wend. (N. Y.) 589; Wolfe v. Howes,
20 N. Y. 197; Baldwin v. New York Life Insurance Co., 3 Bosw.
(N. Y.) 530; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203.
The court erred in not overruling the defendant's demurrers.
Insurance Company v. _Eggleston, 96 U. S. 572; Jlelme v. Philadelphia Life Insurance Co., 61 Pa. St. 107; Insurance Company
v. French, 30 Ohio St. 240; Mayer v. Mutual Life Insurance
Co., 38 Iowa, 304; Ilanley v. Life Association of America, 69
Mo. 380; Leslie v. Knickerbocker Life Insurance Co., 63 N. Y.
27; Nicoll v. New York &' Erie Railroad Co., supra; Newington v. Levy, supra; Teutonia Life Insurance Co. v. Anderson,
77 11. 384; Howell v. -Knickerbocker Life Insurance Co., 44
N. Y. 276 ; Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. v. Hillyard, 37
N. J. L. 444; Martine v. Insurance Company, 53 N. Y. 339;
Code of Alabama, sect. 3001.
Mr. Fletcher P. Cuppy and Mr. homas 11. Ierndon, contra.

Oct. 1881.]

THOMPSON V. INSURANCE CO.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The questions presented for review in this case arise on the
rulings of the court below on the demurrers of the defendant.
It appears from the special pleas that the policy contained
the usual condition that it should become void if the annual
premiums should not be paid on the day when they severally
became due, or if any notes given in payment of premiums
should not be paid at maturity.
The replications do not pretend that the note given for premium, which became due on the twenty-fourth day of October,
1874, was ever paid, or that payment thereof was ever tendered,
either during the life of Thompson or after his death; but it is
contended that such payment was not necessary in order to
avoid the forfeiture claimed by the defendant.
First, it is contended that the mere taking of notes in payinent of the premium was, in itself, a waiver of the conditional
forfeiture ; and for this reference is made to the case of Insurance Company v. French, 30 Ohio St. 240. But, in that case,
no provision was made in the policy for a forfeiture in case of
the non-payment of a note given for the premium, and an unconditional receipt for the premium had been given when the
note was taken; and this fact was specially adverted to by the
court. We think that the decision in that case was entirely
correct. But in this case the policy does contain an express
condition to be void if any note given in payment of premium
should not be paid at maturity. We are of opinion, therefore,
that whilst the primary condition of forfeiture for non-payment
of the annual premium was waived by the acceptance of the
notes, yet, that the secondary condition thereupon came .into
operation, by which the policy was to be void if the notes were
not paid at maturity.
Beside this general answer the plaintiff set up, in her replications, various excuses for not paying the note in question,
which are relied on for avoiding the forfeiture of the policy.
In the second replication the excuse set up is, that before the
note fell due Thompson became sick and mentally and physically incapable of attending to business until his death on the
third day of November, 1874, and that the plaintiff was ignoVOL. XIV.

17

THOMPSON V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

rant of the outstanding note. We have lately held, in the case
of Klein v. Insurance Company (supra, p. 88), that sickness or
incapacity is no ground for avoiding the forfeiture of a life
policy, or for granting relief in equity against forfeiture. The
rule may, in many cases, be a hard one; but it strictly follows
from the position that the time of payment of premium is material in this contract, as was decided in the cage of New York
Life Insurance Co. v. Statham, 93 U. S. 24. Prompt payment
and regular interest constitute the life and soul of the life insurance business; and the sentiment long prevailed that it
could not be carried on without the ability to impose stringent
conditions for delinquency. More liberal views have obtained
on this subject in recent years, and a wiser policy now often
provides express modes of avoiding the odious result of forfeiture. The law, however, has not been changed, and if a forfeiture is provided for in case of non-payment at the day, the
courts cannot grant relief against it. The insurer may waive
it, or may by his conduct lose his right to enforce it; but that
is all.
The third replication sets up a usage, on the part of the insurance company, of giving notice of the day of payment, and
the reliance of the assured upon having such notice. This is
no excuse for non-payment. The assured knew, or was bound
to know, when his premiums became due. Insurance Company v. Eggleston (96 U. S. 572) is cited in support of this
replication. But, in that case, the customary notice relied on
was a notice designating the agent to whom payment was to
be made, without which the assured could not make it, though
he had the money ready. As soon as he ascertained the proper
agent he tendered payment in due form. It is obvious that
the present case is very different from that. The reason why
the insurance company gives notice to its members of the time
of payment of premiums is to aid their memory and to stimulate them to prompt payment. The company is under no obligation to give such notice, and assumes no responsibility by
giving it. The duty of the assured to pay at the day is the
same, whether notice be given or not. Banks often give notice
to their customers of the approaching maturity of their promissory notes or bills of exchange; but they are not obliged to

Oct. 1881.]

THOMPSON V. INSURANCE CO.

give such notice, and their neglect to do it would furnish no
excuse for non-payment at the day.
The fourth replication sets up a parol agreement of defendant made on receiving the promissory note, that the policy
should not become void on the non-payment of the note alone
at maturity, but was to become void at the instance and election of the defendant, which election had never been made.
As this supposed agreement is in direct contradiction to the
express terms of the policy and the note itself, it cannot affect
them, but is itself void. We did hold, in Eggleston's case, it
is true, that any agreement, declaration, or course of action on
the part of an insurance company, which leads a party insured
honestly to believe that by conforming thereto a forfeiture of
his policy will not be incurred, followed by due conformity on
his part, will estop the company from insisting upon the forfeiture. An insurance company may waive a forfeiture or
may agree not to enforce a forfeiture ; but a parol agreement,
made at the time of issuing a policy, contradicting the terms
of the policy itself, like any other parol agreement inconsistent
with a written instrument made contemporary therewith, is
void, and cannot be set up to contradict the writing. So, in
this case, a parol agreement supposed to be made at the time
of giving and accepting the premium note cannot be set up to
contradict the express terms of the note itself, and of the policy
under which it was taken.
The last replication sets up and declares that it was the
usage and custom of the defendants, practised by them before
and after the making of said note, not to demand punctual
payment thereof at the day, but to give days of grace, to wit,
for thirty days thereafter; and they had repeatedly so done
with Thompson and others, which led Thompson to rely on
such leniency in this case. This was a mere matter of voluntary indulgence on the part of the company, or, as the plaintiff
herself calls it, an act of "leniency."
It cannot be justly construed as a permanent waiver of the clause of forfeiture, or as
implying any agreement to waive it, or to continue the same
indulgence for the time to come. As long as the assured
continued in good health, it is not surprising, and should not
be drawn to the company's prejudice, that they were willing

THOMPSON V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

to accept the premium after maturity, and waive the forfeiture
which they might have insisted upon. This was for the mutual benefit of themselves and the assured, at the time ; and in
each instance in which it happened it had respect only to that
particular instance, without involving any waiver of the terms
of the contract in reference to their future conduct. The assured had no right, without some agreement to that effect, to
rest on such voluntary indulgence shown on one occasion, or on
a number of occasions, as a ground for claiming it on all occasions. If it were otherwise, an insurance company could never
waive a forfeiture on occasion of a particular lapse without endangering its right to enforce it on occasion of a subsequent
lapse. Such a consequence would be injurious to them and
injurious to the public.
But a fatal objection to the entire case set up by the plaintiff is, that payment of the premium note in question has never
been made or tendered at any time. There might possibly be
more plausibility in the plea of former indulgence and days of
grace allowed, if payment had been tendered within the limited
But this has never been done.
period of such indulgence.
The plaintiff has, therefore, failed to make a case for obviating
and superseding the forfeiture of the policy, even if the circumstances relied on had been sufficiently favorable to lay the
ground for it. A valid excuse for not paying promptly on the
particular day is a different thing from an excuse for not paying at all.
Courts do not favor forfeitures, but they cannot avoid enforcing them when the party by whose default they-are incurred
cannot show some good and stable ground in the conduct of
the other party, on which to base a reasonable excuse for the
default. We think that no such ground has been shown in
the present case, and that it does not come up to the line of
any of the previous cases referred to, in which the excuse has
been allowed. We do not accept the position that the payment of the annual premium is a condition precedent to the
continuance of the policy. That is untrue. It is a condition
subsequent only, the non-performance of which may incur a
forfeiture of the policy, or may not, according to the circumstances. It is always open for the insured to show a waiver

Oct. 1881.]

HALE v. FINCH.

of the condition, or a course of conduct on the part of the insurer which gave him just and reasonable ground to infer that
a forfeiture would not be exacted. But it must be a just and
reasonable ground, one on which the assured has a right to
rely.
Judgment aflirmed.

HALE V. FINCH.

1. A person not notified of an action nor a party thereto, and who had no opportunity or right to control the defence, introduce or cross-examine witnesses, or to prosecute a writ of error, is not bound by the judgment therein
rendered.
2. Although words of proviso and condition may be construed as words of
covenant, if such be the apparent intent and meaning of the parties, covenant will not arise unless it can be collected from the whole instrument
that there was on the part of the person sought to be charged an agreement, or an engagement, to do or not to do some act.
. Certain language in a bill of sale construed to be a condition and not a covenant.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wash-

ington.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John 11. Mitchell for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr.Elbridge G. Lapham, contra.
Mn. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

On the first day of May, 1864, the Oregon Steam Navigation Company, then engaged in the transportation, for hire, of
freight and passengers on the Columbia River and its tributaries, purchased a steamboat, called the " New World," from
the California Steam Navigation Company, then engaged in
like business upon the rivers, bays, and waters of the State of
California.
The terms of the sale are embodied in a written agreement,
from which it appears that the consideration was $75,000, and
the covenant and agreement of the vendees, not only that they
would not " run or employ, or suffer to be run or employed, the

