NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

faction of the principal of the debt. The claim is not for
interest stipulated for and included in the notes sued on, but
for the application of what has actually been paid as interest
to the discharge of principal. This we held in Barnet v. National Bank (98 U. S. 555) could not be done; and in First
National Bank of Clarion v. Gruber (8 Weekly Notes of Cases,
119), and National Bank of Fayette County v. Dushane (9 id.
472), the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania followed that case,
overruling its former decisions on the same question in Lucas
v. Government National Bank (78 Pa. St. 228) and Oberholt v.
NationalBank of Mt. Pleasant,82 id. 490. If, therefore, we reverse the judgments for the specific errors now complained of,
it would serve no useful purpose, for on the facts admitted the
same general result must follow another trial. Without, therefore, considering at all the question on which the cases seem to
have turned below, the judgments are
Affirmed.

NATIONAL BANK V. INSUIRANCE COMPANY.
1. Although the relation between a bank and its depositor is that merely of
debtor and creditor, the money which he deposits, if held by him in a
fiduciary capacity, does not change its character by being placed to his
credit in his bank account.
2. The bank contracts that it will pay the money on his checks, and, when
they are drawn in proper form, it is bound to presume, in case the account
is kept with him as a trustee, or as acting in some other fiduciary character, that he is in the course of lawfully performing his duty, and to honor
them accordingly; but when against such an account it seeks to assert its
lien for an obligation which it knows was incurred for his private benefit,
it must be held as having notice that the fund is not his individual property, if it is shown to consist, in whole or in part, of money which he held
in a trust relation.
3. As long as trust property can be traced and followed, the property into
which it has been converted remains subject to the trust; and, if a man
mixes trust funds with his, the whole will be treated as trust property,
except so far as he may be able to distinguish what is his. This doctrine
applies in every case of a trust relation, and as well to moneys deposited
in bank, and to the debt thereby created, as to every other description of
property.

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

4. A banker's lien on the securities and money deposited in the usual course
of business, for advances which are supposed to be made upon their
credit, ordinarily attaches not only against the customer, but against
the unknown equities of all others in interest, unless it be modified or
waived by some agreement, express or implied, or by conduct inconsistent with its assertion; but it cannot prevail against the equity of the
beneficial owner, of which the banker has either a c
o,.t
n
tive
notice.
6.
-ia
eW
bank account was opened in the name of a depositor, as general
agent, and it was known to the bank that be was the agent of an insurance company; that conducting its agency was his chief business; that
the account was opened to facilitate that business' and used as a means
of accumulating the premiums on policies collected by him for the company, and of making payment to it by checks, - the bank is chargeable
with notice of the equitable rights of the company, although lie deposited
other money in the same account and drew checks upon it for his private
use. The company may enforce, by bill in equity, its beneficial ownership
therein against the bank, claiming a lien thereon for a debt due to it, which
he contracted for his individual use.
6. A national bank, in voluntary liquidation under sect. 5220 of the Revised
Statutes, is not thereby dissolved as a corporation, but may sue and be
sued, by name, for the purpose of winding up its business; and it is no
defence to a suit upon a disputed claim that, under sect. 2 of the act of
June 30, 1876, c. 156 (19 Stat. 63), the plaintiff has also filed a creditor's
billto enforce the individual liability of the shareholders.
7. A plea in equity iuay be disregarded, if it alleges mere conclusions of law,
or lacks the affidavit and certificate required by the thirty-first equity
rule.
8. When an equity cause was heard upon bill, answer, and proofs, the want of
a formal replication cannot, on appeal, be assigned for error.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company of Hartford, in the year 1864, appointed A. H. Dillon, Jr., its general
agent for the territory consisting of the States of Maryland,
Delaware, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia. He
opened an office at No. 8 South Street, Baltimore, conspicuously
designated by signs as his place of business as general agent of
the Connecticut Mutual Life Insuranc6 Company. It was his
duty, among others, to collect and receive premiums on policies
issued by the company, from persons residing within his territory, and remit the same to the company at Hartford. This
be usually did twice a month, finally accounting for the business of each month at its close. The mode of remitting was
by checks upon a Baltimore bank to the order of the secretary

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

of the company. To this end he at first opened an account
with John S. Gittings & Co., transferred afterwards to the
Chesapeake Bank, and on April 1, 1871, to the appellant, a
national bank, then recently organized, whose banking-house
was across the street from his office. The account was designated on its books as follows: "Dr. Central National Bank
in account with A. H. Dillon, Jr., gen'l ag't. Cr." To the
credit of this account he deposited from time to time premiums collected for the insurance company, and remitted
twice a month his checks, signed by him as general agent,
and payable to the order of Jacob L. Greene, secretary of
the appellee. When the premiums were paid by the checks
of others, they were indorsed by him as general agent, and
deposited to the credit of this account. In such instances an
indorsement in this form was required by the bank. Dillon
also deposited to the credit of this account, from time to
time, various amounts of money received by him from other
sources than from premiums belonging to the appellee, and
drew upon this account checks for money applied and paid
to hiown use. The aggregate of the deposits made, as
shown ii Y-a&count, from the beginning till it was closed,
amount to $470,753.05. There were drawn against it, in all,
four hundred and eleven checks, of which sixty-eight were
on their face payable to the order of Greene as secretary of
the appellee, representing, however, much the larger part of
the gross sum of the deposits.
On June 12, 1874, this account was finally closed, with a
balance, as between deposits and checks, of $11,000.86. At
that date Dillon owed an amount larger than this to the
insurance company, and the proof is clear that the whole
balance then shown by the account, as above stated, was
the proceeds of collections of premiums made by him as its
agent.
His current deposits of premiums in this account included
his own commissions as agent.
Before opening this account with the Central National
Bank, on March 9, 1871, Dillon had opened another account
with it, in the name of his wife, Mrs. A. P. Dillon. This
account was kept open until May 1, 1873, which is the date

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

of the last entries, when it was balanced and closed. The
deposits to the credit of this account were made by Dillon,
and the checks were drawn by him in his wife's name. All
the transactions represented in it were for his individual
account. On both these accounts Dillon was, by agreement
with the bank, allowed interest, which he collected for his
individual use.
On March 14, 1872, Dillon was in distress for money to
make good his margi'ns on some speculations in stock, and
applied to O'Connor, the president of the bank, for a loan.
ie explained the nature, extent, and cause of his necessity
to O'Connor, who, indeed, was already aware that lie was in
the practice of stock speculation, having been interested with
him in some ventures of that character. O'Connor testifies
that he declined making the loan without security, when Dillon
proposed his wife as security for the amount required, not to
exceed $12,000, to be drawn upon checks in her name, which,
if not made good in a few days, were to be taken up by a note
signed by her, assuring O'Connor that certain real estate
owned by her where they resided in Baltimore, with its furniture, was worth at least $15,000 or $20,000. He also urged,
says O'Connor, that he kept a valuable account with the bank,
and as he had never asked before for any loan, he thought he
was entitled to it. The reference, doubtless, was to his agency
account.
The loan was made, the money being paid by the bank on
checks drawn in the name of Alice P. Dillon, to the amount
of $13,000, on March 14, 15, and 16, 1872. These checks
were debited to the bank account in her name, and constituted
an overdraft of $12,067.14. On April 2, 1872, the bank discounted Mrs. Dillon's note for $12,000, and carried the proceeds
to the credit of this account, in order to change the form of the
debt. This note was renewed from time to time, the interest
being paid in some instances by Dillon's check as general agent,
charged to the account kept by him in that name. It was reduced at one time by a payment of $2,000, paid in money. It
was then carried in the same way until Dec. 11, 1873, when
the note of Mrs. Dillon for $10,000 was given, dated Nov. 29,
1873, at six months, falling due June 1, 1874. This note was

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

signed by Dillon and his wife, in their own handwriting, both
as makers and indorsers. The discount upon it, and the interest accrued on the prior note, overdue for some time, of
which it was the renewal, making in all $333.34, was paid to
the bank by Dillon's check as general agent. The account in
the name of Mrs. Dillon was balanced on May 1, 1873, by two
entries of $12,000 each, representing the debt as it then stood;
and that account was closed. The note thereafter appeared
only in the discount ledger, until it was charged up, as hereafter stated. It was expressed to be payable at the Central
National Bank of Baltimore. The same day this note was
given, Nov. 29, 1873, an agreement was made in writing between the bank, by resolution of the directors, and Dillon and
his wife, "that in consideration of Alice P. Dillon being a
stockholder in this bank, and of A. H. Dillon, Jr., being
a customer of the bank, their note for 910,000, dated November 29th, 1873, at six months, be discounted at 6 per c. per
annum, provided only that it be agreed in writing between
the makers and indorsers of said note and the bank, that
at the maturity of the note $5,000 must be paid, and a new
note at 6 months, to be discounted at 6 per c., which at its
maturity must be paid in full, being in full payment of the
loan."
In addition to these two accounts there was a third, entitled
on the books of the bank, " A. H. Dillon, Jr.," spoken of in
the testimony as his individual account. The first entry is
dated Oct. 15, 1873, the last, Dec. 11, 1873. There are eight
items on each side, amounting to $28,337.50. In the first
three items it is testified that Dillon had no interest at all.
They represent transactions made by him for the bank itself.
The last item in the account is $10,000, being proceeds of his
note discounted, which were used to take up a prior one, then
matured.
On June 1, 1874, the note given by Dillon and his wife for
$10,000, dated Nov. 29, 1873, at six months, became due and
was not paid. By order of the bank it was that day charged
to Dillon in his account as general agent. In ignorance of that
fact, he continued to make deposits in that account and draw
checks upon it till June 12, 1874, when it was closed, showing

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL. BANK V. INSURANCE

CO.

a credit balance at that date, if the note of $10,000 was not
properly chargeable, of $11,000.86.
On June 10, 1874, Dillon drew his check as general agent
on the bank for $8,000 to the order of Greene, the secretary of
the insurance company, and remitted it to him at Hartford.
On June 13 it was presented to the bank for payment, and
payment refused, on the ground that there were not funds to
the credit of the drawee sufficient to pay it.
In the settlement of his agency accounts with the company for May and June, 1874, he was allowed a credit for
the amount of this balance in the Central Bank, $11,000.86,
and paid in addition, in full of his account to June 30,
$4,550.66.
On June 11 the directors of the bank, by resolution, recite
the agreement made in respect to the $10,000 note, on Nov.
29, 1873, when it was discounted; that it had not been cornplied with; that the note was made payable at the bank;
and declare that " this board approve of the act of the acting
cashier in charging said note in full to the account and funds
of A. H. Dillon, Jr., general agent," &c.
On July 18, 1874, the insurance company filed a bill in
equity in the Circuit Court of Baltimore City against the bank
to recover the balance, which it alleged remained in the account of A. H. Dillon, Jr., general agent, $11,000.86, claiming
it to be a fund, received by him in his fiduciary character,
as its agent, which they had a right to follow and reclaim asj
against the bank.
To this bill the bank appeared and answered, denying its
equity.
The insurance company filed an amended bill on March 4,
1875, in which it repeated the allegations of the original bill,
and further averred that the defendant bank had taken proceedings under the National Bank Act to wind up its business
and cease to act as a national bank in the city of Baltimore,
and that if it be permitted to do so, distributing its assets
among its stockholders, the complainant will have no remedy
except by a multiplicity of suits against individual stockholders, many of whom are not within the jurisdiction. It therefore prays, in addition to an account and a declaration that the

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

fund in question is a trust fund, of which the complainant is
beneficial owner, that an injunction may be granted restraining the bank from paying to its stockholders its assets without retaining a sufficient amount to satisfy the complainant's
demand.
To the amended bill the defendant filed what are designated
as pleas, as follows: 1. That the plaintiff is not in any sense a creditor of the
defendant.
2. That there never was nor is any privity between the
plaintiff and the defendant as to the various matters alleged
in the bill.
3. That the court had no jurisdiction as to the matters
alleged, the remedy, if any, being complete and adequate at
law.
And afterwards an additional plea:4. That under the provisions of the acts of Congress, in reference to national banks, it is exempted from the process of
injunction as prayed for.
By the amended bill A. IH.Dillon, Jr., was made a party
defendant. He appeared and filed his answer to the original
and amended bill; but, having been lost or mislaid, it is not
contained in the transcript of the record.
Subsequently, on April 10, 1877, the cause was removed
from the State court to the Circuit Court of the United
States, on the petition of the defendant, the Central National Bank.
The bank, on May 23, 1878, filed a motion to dismiss the
bill, on the grounds: 1. That the bank, by a vote of its shareholders, owning two
thirds of its stock, taken July 15, 1874, had gone into liquidation, in pursuance of sects. 5220, 5221, and 5222 of the
Revised Statutes, and had thereby become dissolved.
2. And that the complainant, on June 8, 1878, had filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States its bill of complaint, by
virtue of sect. 2, c. 156, of an act of Congress approved June
30, 1876, entitled "An Act authorizing the appointment of
receivers of national banks, and for other purposes," praying process against said bank and against the persons who

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

were shareholders thereof at the time the same went into
voluntary liquidation, and seeking the enforcement of the
same demand sought to be enforced in this case, which is still
pending.
This motion was overruled. The cause having been set down
for hearing, the complainant moved for leave to file a general
replication to the original answer, nune pro tune, and also to
file a replication to defendant's first plea, which motions were
granted; and to deny the legal sufficiency of the defendant's
2d and 3d pleas, setting the said two pleas for argument, which
was overruled.
The motion to dismiss the bill, on the ground that the bank had
gone into liquidation and was thereby dissolved, was renewed
on June 10, 1878, with the additional averment, that in the
mean time all its property and assets had been distributed
among its shareholders, and that the bank was wholly and
finally closed, and had ceased to have a corporate existence.
This motion Was overruled as having been filed after the cause
had been argued and submitted, and after the court had orally
pronounced its opinion.
And on the same day a decree was passed reciting that the
cause standing ready for hearing, and having been argued, and
submitted upon the bill, answer, pleadings, and other proceedings and evidence in the cause, and decreeing payment by the
bank to the complainant of the amount of the fund claimed,
with interest.
From this decree the bank prosecutes this appeal.
Mr. Arthur W. Maehen for the appellant.
Mr. John Carson, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The contention of the appellant, in opposition to the decree
below, upon the merits, is that the account of A. H. Dillon,
Jr., general agent, with the bank was an individual account
with him as a depositor, which created the relation of debtor
and creditor between them, and to which no other party was
or could be privy; that the style in which it was kept, of general agent, was merely a deseriptio personce, and furnished no

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

indication that the money deposited belonged to the depositor
in any fiduciary capacity; that it described merely the busihess in which he was engaged, as that of a general agency,
for whomsoever might employ him; that in point of fact
the account embraced deposits from various sources, and was
used as a medium for payments of every description, according to the will of the depositor; that the bank had no
notice of any equitable claim of the complainant, nor of the
facts on which its claim rests; that, consequently, it had the
right to treat the account as a dealing with Dillon individually,
in which, so far as the bank was concerned, no one else had
any interest, legally or equitably, and subject to its lien as a
banker, for any overdue obligation of the depositor.
It is claimed further, in support of the bank's position, that
the discount of the note afterwards charged to this account
was made originally upon the faith and credit that the latter
was Dillon's individual property. But this we find to be distinctly and fully negatived by the circumstances in proof.
There was a considerable balance to the credit of this account
when the original debt was contracted, and at each time when
it was renewed; but at no time does it appear that the suggestion was made that it should be applied, in whole or in part, to
pay or reduce the indebtedness. The debt was first charged
in the account kept in the name of Mrs. Dillon, and never
appeared in the other, till it was finally charged up for payment. In the original conversation that resulted in the agreement for the loan, O'Connor, the president of the bank,
demanded security, and was satisfied with the responsibility
of Mrs. Dillon, as the supposed owner of their residence in
Baltimore, and it was not until after O'Connor learned that
this had been conveyed to another that he conceived the idea
of charging the note, when it should become due, if it remained
unpaid, to the account of Dillon, as general agent. The existence of this account as a profitable one to the bank was alleged
as a reason by Dillon why be should have the accommodation;
but it was not pledged for the payment of the loan, either in
express terms, or by any acts or conduct from which such an
intention can be inferred. And no such claim is made by the
directors of the bank, either in their resolution of Nov. 29,

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

1873, authorizing the discount of the last six-months note, or
that of June 11, 1874, justifying the act of the cashier in
finally charging it up to the account of Dillon, as general
agent.
We find it also to be fully proven that the bank knew that
Dillon was the agent for the insurance company ; that it was
his business and duty to collect and remit to it the premiums
on policies of life insurance as they accrued; that the bank
account in his name as general agent was opened in that
way to be used for that purpose; that in point of fact such
premiums were collected and deposited for accumulation to be
remitted, and were remitted by checks on that account, and
that they constituted much the larger part of the fund which
entered into it.
It will be observed that the question arising here is not
what the rights of the parties would be if the note had been
taken up by Dillon's check upon that account, the bank having no knowledge of its character, except what might be
inferred from the use of the words "general agent" at its
head. Here the attempt is made, with the actual knowledge
which we find imputable to the bank, and without Dillon's
assent, to pay itself his overdue note out of a fund for which,
as agent of the insurance company, he was bound to account
to it. In the case of Duncan v. .-audon (15 Wall. 165), this
court decided that a banker lending money to a person, for
his private use, on the security of stocks, the certificates of
which showed that he held them as trustee for another, was
chargeable, as a party to the breach of trust, for the value of
the trust property converted, and cited with approbation the
similar decision in Shaw v. Spencer (100 Mass. 382), where
the certificates were in the name of " A. B., trustee," without
naming a cestui que trust. In that case it was held that the
pledgee is, by the terms of the certificate, put on inquiry as to
the character and limitations of the trust, and if he accepts
the pledge without inquiry, does so at his peril.
A bank account, it is true, even when it is a trust fund, and
designated as such by being kept in the name of the depositor
as trustee, differs from other trust funds which are permanently invested in the name of trustees for the sake of being

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE C O.

[Sup. Ct.

held as such; for a bank account is made to be checked
against, and represents a series of current transactions. The
contract between the bank and the depositor is that the former will pay according to the checks of the latter, and when
drawn in proper form the bank is bound to presume that the
trustee is in the course of lawfully performing his duty, and to
honor them accordingly. But when against a bank account,
designated as one kept by the depositor in a fiduciary character, the bank seeks to assert its lien as a banker for a personal
obligation of the depositor, known to have been contracted for
his private benefit, it must be held as having notice that the
fund represented by the account is not the individual property
of the depositor, if it is shown to consist, in whole or in part, of
funds held by him in a tiust relation.
In such circumstances it is merely an application of the principle of set-off, and is illustrated by the case of Bailey v. Finch,
Law Rep. 7 Q. B. 34. There the plaintiff, as trustee of a
bankrupt banking firm, sought to recover a balance of a banking account which had been overdrawn. The defendant sought
to set off a balance due to him as executor of A., in which
name lie had another account, and proved that as residuary
legatee he was beneficially entitled to this balance, the legatees
being otherwise satisfied. It was held that the effect of the account being in the name of the executor was to affect the bank
with notice, if there were any equities attaching to the fund,
but that under the circumstances there were no such equities
as to prevent the defendant from treating the balance as a fund
to which he was beneficially as well as legally entitled, and
that conspquently he was entitled to set it against the plaintiff's claim. Cockburn, C. J., said : "There can be no doubt
that in point of law the estate and effects of the deceased testatrix passed to the defendant as executor. And although it may
be for his convenience to open an account in his own name as
executor instead of in his own name as private customer, the
whole effect of that is, I apprehend, to affect the bank with
the knowledge of the character in which he holds the money.
Therefore, if there were persons beneficially interested in that
fund, the bank might be liable to be restrained by proceedings
in equity from dealing with the fund as if it were one in which

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

their customer, the defendant, were beneficially interested, absolutely without reference to any trust or beneficial interest to
which it was subject." In the same case, Blackburn, J., said,
that opening the account as executor operated " as a notice to
them, as a statement to the bank- ' This account which I am
opening is not my own unlimited property, but it is money
which belongs to the estate which I am administering as executor; consequently there may be persons who have equitable
claims upon it.' The bank would have been bound by any
equity which did exist, of which they had notice at the time
the bank became bankrupt."
In the case of Pannell v. Hurley (2 Col. C. C. 241), the depositor, having two accounts, one in trust, the other in his own
name, drew his check as trustee to pay his private debt to the
banker. The Vice-Chancellor, Knight Bruce, put the case
thus "Money is due from A. to B., in trust for C. B. is indebted
to A. on his own account. A., with knowledge of the trust,
concurs with B. in setting one debt against the other, which is
done without C.'s consent. Can it be a.question in equity
whether such a transaction stand ?"
In Bodenham v. Hoskyns (2 De G., M. & G. 903), the principle was stated to be one, acted upon daily by courts of equity,
"according to which a person who knows another to have in
his hands or under his control moneys belonging to a third person, cannot deal with those moneys for his own private benefit
when the effect of that transaction is the commission of a fraud
upon the owner."
In the case of Ex parte Kingston, In re Gross (Law Rep.
6 Ch. App. 632), a county treasurer bad two bank accounts, one
headed " Police Account." Some of the items to his credit in
this account could be traced as having come from county funds,
but most of them could not. The checks which he drew upon
it were all headed "Police Account," and appeared to have
been drawn only for county purposes. For the purposes of
interest the bank treated the accounts as one account, and the
interest on the balance in his favor was carried to the credit of
his private account. The manager of the bank knew he was
county treasurer, and understood that he had been in the habit
VOL. XIV.

F

NATIONAL

BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

of paying county moneys into the bank. He absconded, his private account being overdrawn, and the police account being in
credit. It was held that the bank was not entitled to set off the
one account against the other, but that the county magistrates
could recover the balance standing to the credit of the police
account. Sir W. M. James, L. J., said: " In my mind this case
is infinitely stronger than those referred to during the argument, in which a similar claim on the part of bankers was disallowed ; for in those cases the bankers relied on cheques drawn
by the customers; and if a banker receives from a customer
holding a trust account a cheque drawn on that account, he is
not in general bound to inquire whether that cheque was properly drawn. Here the customer has drawn no cheque, and the
bankers are seeking to set off the balance on his private account
against the balance in his favor on what they knew to be a
trust account."
It is objected that the remedy of the complainant below, if any
existed, is at law, and not in equity. But the contract created
by the dealings in a bank account is between the depositor
and bank alone, without reference to the beneficial ownership
of the moneys deposited. No one can sue at law for a breach
of that contract, except the parties to it. There was no privity
created by it, even upon the facts of the present case, as we
have found them, between the bank and the insurance company. The latter would not have been liable to the bank
for an overdraft by Dillon, as was decided by this court in
National Bank v. Insurance Company, 103 U. S. 783; and,
conversely, for the balance due from the bank, no action at
law upon the account could be maintained by the insurance
company.
But although the relation between the bank and its depositor
is that merely of debtor and creditor, and the balance due on
the account is only a debt, yet the question is always open, To
whom in equity does it beneficially belong? If the money
belonged to a third person, and was held by the
depositor in a fiduciary capacity, its character is not changed
by being placed to his credit in his bank account.
In the case of Pennell v. Deffell (4 De G., M. & G. 372,
388), Lord Justice Turner said: "It is, I apprehend, an un-

Ideposited

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

.doubted principle of this court, that as between cestui que
trust and trustee and all parties claiming under the trustee,
otherwise than by purchase for valuable consideration without
notice, all property belonging to a trust, however much it may
be changed or altered in its nature or character, and all the
fruit of such property, whether in its original or in its altered
state, continues to be subject to or affected by the trust." In the
same case, Lord Justice Knight Bruce said (p. 883) : "When
a trustee pays trust money into a bank to his credit, the account
being a simple account with himself, not marked or distinguished in any other manner, the debt thus constituted from
the bank to him is one which, as long as it remains due,
belongs specifically to the trust as much and as effectually as
the money so paid would have done, had it specifically been
placed by the trustee in a particular repository and so remained ;
that is to say, if the specific debt shall be claimed on behalf of
the eestuis que trustent, it must be deemed specifically, theirs,
as between the trustee and his executors, and the general creditors after his death on one hand, and the trust on the other."
He added (p. 384) : "This state of things would not, I apprehend, be varied by the circumstance of the bank holding also
for the trustee, or owing also to him, money in every sense
his own."
Vice-Chancellor Sir W. Page Wood, in Pirith v. Cartland
(2 Hem.& M. 417, 420), said that Pennell v. Deffell rested
upon and illustrated two established doctrines. One was that
"so long as the trust property can be traced and followed into
other property into which it has been converted, that remains
subject to the trust;" the second is, " that if a man mixes
trust funds with his own, the whole will be treated as the trust
property, except so far as he may be able to distinguish what
is his own."
The case of Pennell v. Deffell (supra) was the subject of
comment by Fry, J., in In re West of England & South Wales
District Banlc, Rx parte Dale & Co., 11 Ch. D. 772. Strongly
approving the decision in principle, he felt bound nevertheless,
by what he considered the weight of authority, not to apply it,
in the circumstances of the case before him, where there had
been a mingling of trust money with individual money. He

NATIONAL

BANK V. INSURANCE Co.

[Sup. Ct.

said, however: " Does it make any difference that, instead of
trustee and cestui que trust, it is a case of fiduciary'relationship ?
What is a fiduciary relationship ? It is one in which, if a wrong
arise, the same remedy exists against the wrong-doer on behalf
of the principal as would exist against a trustee on behalf of the
cestui que trust. If that be a just description of the relationship, it would follow that wherever fiduciary relationship exists,
and money coming from the trust lies in the hands of persons
standing in that relationship, it can be followed and separated
from any money of their own."
The whole subject of this discussion was very elaborately and
with much learning reviewed by the Court of Appeal in
England, in the very recent case of Knatehbull v. Hallett, In re
Hallett's Estate, 13 Ch. D. 696. It was there decided that if
money held by a person in a fiduciary character, though not as
trustee, has been paid by him to his account at his banker's,
the person for whom he held the money can follow it, and has
a charge on the balance in the banker's hands, although it was
mixed with his own moneys; and in that particular the court
overruled the opinion in Exparte Dale & Co., supra. It was also
held that the rule in Clayton's Case (1 Mer. 572), attributing
the first drawings out to the first payments in, does not apply ;
and that the drawer must be taken to have drawn out his own
money in preference to the trust money ; and in that particular
Pennell v. Deffell was not followed. The Master of the Rolls,
Sir George Jessel, showed that the modern doctrine of equity,
as regards property disposed of by persons in a fiduciary position, is that, whether the disposition of it be rightful or wrongful, the beneficial owner is entitled to the proceeds, whatever
be their form, provided only he can identify them. If they
cannot be identified by reason of the trust money being mingled
with that of the trustee, then the cestui que trust is entitled to
a charge upon the new investment to the extent of the trust
money traceable into it; that there is no distinction between
an express trustee and an agent, or bailee, or collector of rents,
or anybody else in a fiduciary position ; and that there is no
difference between investments in the purchase of lands, or
chattels, or bonds, or loans, or moneys deposited in a baik
account. He adopts the principle of Lord Ellenborough's state-

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL

BANK V. INSURANCE

CO.

ment in Taylor v. Plumer (3 M. & S. 562), that "it makes no
difference in reason or law into what other form different from
the original the change may have been made, whether it be
into that of promissory notes for the security of money which
was produced by the sale of the goods of the principal, as in
Scott v. Surman (Willes, 400), or into other merchandise, as
in Whitecomb v. Jacob (1 Salk. 161) ; for the product or substitute for the original thing still follows the nature of the thing
itself, as long as it can be ascertained to be such, and the right
only ceases when the means of ascertaimnent fail." But he
dissents from the application of the rule made by Lord Ellenborough, when the latter added, " which is the case when the
subject is turned into money and confounded in a general mass
of the same description ; " for equity will follow the money,
even if put into a bag or an undistinguishable mass, by taking
out the same quantity. And the doctrine that money has no
ear-mark must be taken as subject to the application of this
rule. The Court of Appeals had previously applied the very
rule as here stated in the case of Birt v. Burt, reported in a
note to Ex parte Dale & Co., 11 Ch. D. 773.
The principle is illustrated by many cases in this country.,
In Farmers'& Mechanics' National Bank v. King (57 Pa. St.
202), a collector of rents deposited moneys of his principal in
bank in his own name; it was attached by a creditor of thb(
depositor, and immediately afterwards notice of ownership va.
given by the principal. It was held that the attaching creditor
stood in the position of the depositor, and could recover only
what the depositor could. The law of the case was stated by
Judge Strong in the following language: " It is undeniable
that equity will follow a fund through any number of transmutations, and preserve it for the owner so long as it can be
identified. And it does not matter in whose name the legal
right stands. If money has been converted by a trustee or
agent into a chose in action, the legal right to it may have been
changed, but equity regards the beneficial ownership. It is
conceded, for the cases abundantly show it, that when the bank
received the deposits it thereby became a debtor to the depositor. The debt might have been paid in answer to his checks,
and thus the liability extinguished, in the absence of interference

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

by his principals, to whom the money belonged. But surely it
cannot be maintained that when the principals asserted their
right to the money before its repayment, and gave notice to
the bank of their ownership, and of their unwillingness that
the money should be paid to the agent, his right to reclaim it
had not ceased. A bank can be in no better situatibn than any
other debtor."
The same doctrine was strongly maintained by the New York
Court of Appeals in the case of Van Alen v. American National
Bank, 52 N. Y. 1. In that case it was decided that when an
agent deposits in a bank to his own account the proceeds of
property sold by him for his principal, under instructions thus
to keep it, a trust is impressed upon the deposit in favor of the
principal, and his right thereto is not affected by the fact that
the agent at the same time deposits other moneys belonging to
himself ; nor is it affected by the fact that the agent, instead
of depositing the identical moneys received by him on account
of his principal, substitutes other moneys therefor. In. the
course of the opinion, Church, C. J., said: " It was suggested
on the argument that notice to the bank by the depositor was
necessary to protect the rights of the plaintiff ; but this is not
so. The title of the plaintiff does not depend upon whether
lie bank knew he had a title or not. That rested upon other
facts. A notice to the bank might have prevented any transI er or the creation of a lien by the depositor, or prevented the
bank from taking or acquiring such lien in good faith, but could
'not otherwise be necessary or important."
This doctrine of equity is modern only in the sense of its
being a consistent and logical extension of a principle originating in the very idea of trusts, for they can only be preserved
by a strict enforcement of the rule that forbids one holding a
trust relation from making private use of trust property. It
has been repeatedly recognized and enforced in this court.
Oliver v. Piatt, 3 How. 333 ; May v. LeClaire, 11 Wall. 217 ;
Duncan v. Jaudon, 15 id. 165; Bayne v. United States, 93 U. S.
642; United States v. State Bank, 96 id. 30.
The relation of Dillon to the insurance company was one of
confidence and trust. Ile was its agent for the collection of
premiums, which belonged to it no less when in his hands than

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

before their receipt by him. He was to account for them,
under its directions, and in his entire dealing with them was
bound to obey its orders. He was not merely its debtor for the
amount in his hands. He held the fund for the use and as the
property of the company. Foley v. Hill, 2 H. of L. Cas. 28.
In a direct suit between them, Dillon v. 'Connecticut Mutual
Life Insurance Co. (44 Md. 386), it was so expressly ruled, the
Maryland Court of Appeals saying: " Dillon not only held the
fiduciary relation to the company of its agent, but was acting in
respect to this and all the money he collected while such agent,
under specific directions as to what he should do with it, directions which the company had the right, for its own protection
and that of its policy-holders, to have specifically performed.
. . . He must, we think, be regarded and treated as a trustee,
and the fund thus in his hands must be considered as so far
impressed with a trust as to give a court of equity jurisdiction
of the case on that ground, if on no other."
Evidently the bank has 1e better right than Dillon, unless
it can obtain it through its. baner's lien. Ordinarily that
attaches in favor of the bank uponxthe securities and moneys
of the customer deposited in the usual course of business, for
advances which are supposed to be made upon their credit.
It attaches to such securities and funds, not only against the
depositor, but against the unknown equities of all others in
interest, unless modified or waived by some agreement, express
or implied, or by conduct inconsistent with its assertion. But
it cannot be permitted to prevail against the equity of the
beneficial owner, of which the bank has notice, either actual
or constructive.
In the present case, in addition to the circumstance that the
account was opened and kept by Dillon in his name as general /
agent, and all the presumptions properly arising upon it, we I
have found that other facts proven on the hearing justify and
require the conclusion that the bank had full knoxvledLge of, the
sources of the deposits made by Dillon in this account, and of
his duty to remit and account for them as agent of the insurance company. It is, consequently, chargeable with notice of
the equities of the appellee.
In our opinion the equity of the case, upon the merits, was

NATIONAL

BANK V. INSURANCE Co.

[Sup. Ct.

manifestly with the appellee. But the appellant has assigned
other errors upon the decree which remain to be considered.
It is claimed that the suit while in the Circuit Court abated
by reason of the dissolution of the defendant below as a corporate body.
The Central National Bank was organized Jan. 16, 1871,
under the act of June 3, 1864, c. 106 (13 Stat. 99), and the
amendments thereto. Its articles of association provided that
"this association shall continue for the period of twenty years
from the date of the organization certificate, unless sooner dissolved by the act of its stockholders owning at least two-thirds

of its stock, who may dissolve and close up the association in
such manner as they may deem to be for the interest of the
stockholders and creditors of the association, but subject to
the restrictions, requirements, and provisions of the act."
On July 15, 1874, three days before the complainant's bill
was filed, at a meeting of the stockholders of the bank held
pursuant to law, "it was voted by the stockholders of said
association owning more than two-thirds of its stock, that
said association go into liquidation and be closed."
It is certified by the Comptroller of the Currency "that the
Central National Bank of Baltimore went into voluntary liquidation on July 15, 1874, under sections 5220 and 5221 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, and on Jan. 8, 1875,
deposited legal-tender notes with the treasurer of the United
States for the full amount of its outstanding circulation, as
provided in section 5222 of the Revised Statutes, whereupon
the bonds deposited by the association for the purpose of securing its circulating notes were delivered to the bank, thus finally
closing its connection with this department."
It further appears that the bank ceased to do any new banking business after resolving to go into liquidation ; paid its
depositors and other creditors, so far as their claims were admitted; reduced its assets to cash, and distributed the money
among the shareholders, paying them back their capital in

full with an accumulation of two per cent premium. The
bank's lease of its banking-house expired March 1, 1875, when
its doors were closed, its clerks discharged, and afterwards its
furniture removed and disposed of and its signs taken down.

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

On Feb. 1, 1875, a special authority was issued by the board
of directors, authorizing the president and acting cashier to act
for and do all legal acts that might become necessary in the
liquidation of the business of the bank.
It is claimed that these facts show a dissolution of the corporation.
It is provided by sect. 5136 of the Revised Statutes that
every national bank, duly incorporated, shall " have succession
for the period of twenty years from its organization, unless it
is sooner dissolved according to the provisions of its articles
of association, or by the act of its shareholders owning twothirds of its stock, or unless its franchise becomes forfeited by
some violation of law."
By sect. 5220 it is also provided that " any association may
go into liquidation and be closed by the vote of its shareholders
owning two-thirds of its stock."
Sect. 5221 requires that whenever a vote is taken to go into
liquidation, notice of the fact shall be given to the Comptroller
of the Currency, and publication made in newspapers, that the
association is closing up its affairs, and notifying its creditors
to present their claims for payment.
Six months thereafter is given by sect. 5222, in which the
association is required to deposit with the treasurer of the
United States lawful money of the United States sufficient to
redeem all its outstanding circulation.
Sect. 5224 further provides that when that deposit has been
made, the bonds deposited to secure payment of its notes shall
be reassigned to it. "And thereafter the association and its
shareholders shall stand discharged from all liabilities upon
its circulating notes, and their notes shall be redeemed at the
treasury of the United States."
In connection with the provision of the articles of association
of the Central National Bank, already noticed, these are all the
provisions of law that are supposed to affect the question.
It is to be observed that the sections under which the proceedings took place which, it is claimed, put an end to the
corporate existence of the bank, do not refer, in terms, to a
dissolution of the corporation, and there is nothing in the language which suggests it, in the technical sense in which it is

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

used here as a defence. The association goes into liquidation
and is closed. It is required to give notice that it is closing up
its affairs, and in order to do so completely and effectually, to
notify its creditors to present their claims for payment. And
the redemption of its bonds given to secure the payment of its
circulating notes, by the required deposit of money in the treasury, is limited in its effect to a discharge of the association
and its shareholders from all liability upon its circulating notes.
The very purpose of the liquidation provided for is to pay the
debts of the corporation, that the remainder of the assets, being
reduced to money, may be distributed among the stockholders.
That distribution cannot take place, with any show of justice,
and according to the intent of the law, until all liabilities to
creditors have been honestly met and paid. If there are claims
made which the directors of the association are not willing to
acknowledge as just debts, there is nothing in the statute
which is inconsistent with the right of the claimant to obtain
a judicial determination of the controversy by process against
the association, nor with that of the association to collect by
suit debts due to it. It is clearly, we think, the intention of
the law that it should continue to exist, as a person in law,
capable of suing and being sued, until its affairs and business
are completely settled. The proceeding prescribed by the law
seems to resemble, not the technical dissolution of a corporation, without any saving as to the common-law consequences,
but rather that of the dissolution of a copartnership, which,
nevertheless, continues to subsist for the purpose of liquidation
and winding up its business.
In the case of Banc of Bethel v. Pahquioque Banc (14 Wall.
383), the same question was made in reference to a national
bank which, having become insolvent, by a refusal to pay its
circulating notes, was put into liquidation by the Comptroller
of the Currency, by the appointment of a receiver under other
provisions of the bank act. It was there claimed, for the purpose of defeating a suit brought against the bank by name,
that the appointment of the receiver, who had refused to admit
and pay the plaintiff's claim, was a dissolution of the corporation. Mr. Justice Clifford, delivering the opinion of the court,
recited the provisions of the law upon the subject, and said:

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

" None of these proceedings, however, support the theory that
the association ceased to exist when the receiver was appointed,
nor at any time before the assets of the association are fully
administered, and the balance, if any, is paid to the owners
of the stock or their legal representatives." p. 398.
" Much aid cannot be derived from authorities in the examination of this proposition, as the question turns chiefly, if
not entirely, upon the construction of the act of Congress; and
suffice it to say that we are all of the opinion that the act contains nothing in its subsequent provisions inconsistent with the
theory of the plaintiffs, that the association may sue and be
sued, complain and defend, in all cases where it may be necessary that the corporate name of the association shall be used
for that purpose in closing its business and winding up its
affairs, under the provisions of the act which authorized its
formation." p. 400.
In that case it was argued, as in this, that as the only constitutional warrant for the existence of a national bank was its
connection with the government as a fiscal agent, the severance
of that connection ipso facto deprived it of vitality. The same
argument would render it incapable of returning to its stockholders their capital and accumulated profits. If it was a reasonable incident to its living that it should contract debts, it is
equally a reasonable incident to its dissolution that it should
pay them. We see no constitutional impediment that prevents it.
The same conclusion was reached by the Court of Appeals
of Maryland in the case of Ordway v. Central National Banc,
47 Md. 217.
The second section of the act of June 30, 1876, c. 156,
authorizing the appointment of receivers of national banks,
and for other purposes (19 Stat. 63), provides that when any
national banking association shall have gone into liquidation
under the provisions of sect. 5220 of the Revised Statutes, the
individual liability of the stockholders, provided for by sect.
5151 of said statutes, may be enforced by any creditor of such
association by bill in equity, in the nature of a creditor's bill,
brought by such creditor on behalf of himself and of all other
creditors of the association against the shareholders thereof, in

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE Co.

[Sup. Ct.

any court of the United States having original jurisdiction in
equity for the district in which such association may have been
located or established.
It appears that the appellee filed, Jan. 8, 1878, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland,
its bill of complaint against the appellant and the persons
who were shareholders in the bank at the time it resolved to
go into liquidation, under the provisions of that section.
It is urged that the act of 1876 is itself evidence that the
bank was dissolved as a corporation by the proceedings in
liquidation, and that the pendency of the bill authorized by it
was a bar to any further proceeding in the present suit.
We see nothing in the act inconsistent with the continued
existence of the bank as a corporation for the purposes of
liquidation. Indeed, it seems to confirm the idea that for the
purpose of being sued, in order judicially to determine the question of disputed liability, it continues to exist, and the remedy
against the shareholders is added as a means of execution, in
case the corporate assets have in the mean time been otherwise
applied or shown to have been insufficient. It is a cumulative
remedy and against other persons, and cannot be considered as
an objection to the rendition of the present decree.
It is also assigned for error that the appellee failed to set down
for argument or traverse the pleas of the defendant, as required
by the thirty-eighth equity rule ; but the pleas in this case were
irregularly filed and defective, under the thirty-first rule, for
lack of the affidavit of the defendant that they were not interposed for delay, and of the certificate of counsel that they were,
in his opinion, well founded in point of law, and may well have
been disregarded on that account. Besides, the second and third
pleas were such only in form, as they merely alleged matters of
law and not of fact.
" The office of a plea," said Lord Eldon, in Rowe v. Teed
(15 Ves. Jr. 372), "generally, is not to deny the equity, but to
bring forward a fact which, if true, displaces it." The first
plea is open to the same objection ; for, although it appears to
negative the averment of a matter of fact essential to the complainant's case,- that he was a creditor of the defendant,-yet
really it merely denies the conclusion of law, to be drawn from

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

the whole of the case as stated in the bill. Every matter,
therefore, covered by the pleas was necessarily embraced in
the hearing upon the bill, answer, and proofs. There was no
issue tendered on matter of fact that was left undecided, and
no matter of law affecting the merits that was not adjudged.
It is also assigned for error that the complainant failed to
file a replication to the answer. Leave to do so was granted
by the court, on the complainant's motion ; and although the
transcript does not show that it was done, the parties went to
the.hearing as if it had been done, submitting the case upon
the proofs which had been taken, as though a formal issue had
been perfected.
The same objection was made in the cases of Clements v.
Moore (6 Wall. 299) and Laber v. Cooper (7 id. 565), under circumstances not distinguishable from the present, and for the
reasons there stated it is overruled.
The absence of an answer by Dillon, and the want of an
issue upon it, is also assigned for error. The transcript shows
that an answer had been filed by Dillon, but had been lost or
mislaid. This fact having been called to the attention of the
court below, before the hearing, the circuit judge announced
that he would not proceed with the hearing without the
answer, if the respondent's solicitor, then present, objected
to the hearing for that reason. No objection was made, and
the hearing properly proceeded. For aught that appears, Dillon's answer may have been a confession of the truth of the
allegations of the bill.
We find no error in the record.
Decree affirmed.

