192

MINING Co. v. ANGLO-CALIFORNIAN BANK.

MINING COMPANY V. ANGLO-CALIFORNIAN

[Sup. Ct.

BANK.

1. The laws of California, under which a mining company was organized, empower it "to enter into any obligations or contracts essential to the transaction of its ordinary affairs, or for the purposes for which it was created,"
and make it the duty of its board of directors to exert its corporate powers
and to conduct and control its business and property. Ield, 1. That, as
incident to the general powers of the company, its board may borrow money
for its purposes, and invest certain of its officers with authority to negotiate loans, execute notes, and sign checks drawn against its bank account.
2. That tle fact that the board has invested them with such authority may
be shown otherwise than by the official record of its proceedings.
2. Where, therefore, without objection by the board, checks so drawn have, for
a long period, been signed by the president and secretary of the company,
the bank has the right to assume that those officers are invested with
authority to sign them.
8. On the day when the decision, in a suit then pending, declaring that certain
persons acting as such board, pursuant to an election theretofore held,
should be removed from office, was announced, they, at a later hour, met
as the board, and adopted a resolution, pursuant to which the president
and secretary executed, on behalf of the company, and in settlement of
its overdrawn bank account, a note bearing interest at a rate allowed by
the laws of the State only when the contract therefor is in writing. On
the next day, that judgment was filed with, and recorded by, the clerk
of the court. field, that, the persons being de facto directors, the note so
executed is binding on the company.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. J. Hubley Ashton for the plaintiff in error.
3ir. Samuel Shellabargerand Mr. Theodore Sutro, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, a mining corporation, was organized
under the laws of California on the twenty-second day of December, 1873. From that date until the 21st of June, 1877,
its treasurer was the defendant in error, a banking corporation created under the laws of Great Britain, and doing business in the city of San Francisco. During that period the
moneys of the mining company were, frlom time to time, deposited with its treasurer, and paid out upon checks signed by
the president and secretary of the company. In addition, the

Oct. 1881.]

MINING

Co.

V. ANGLO-CALIFORNIAN

BANK.

193

bank allowed the account of the company to be overdrawn
upon like checks. Such overdraft, including proper allowance for interest, amounted, on the 21st of June, 1877, to
$6,319.59.
On the day last named, at 11 o'clock A.M., in an action then
pending in the District Court of the Nineteenth Judicial District of California, in and for the city and county of San Francisco, wherein certain stockholders of the mining company
were plaintiffs, and Ignatz Steinhart, S. Heydenfeldt, P. N.
Lilienthal, Otto Esche, F. N. Benjamin, and the mining company were defendants, - which action had been brought to
remove those persons from office as directors of the mining
company, - the court decided that the election under which
they acted as directors was invalid and void, and that they
should be ousted and removed. When that decision was announced, the findings of fact by the court, as well as its judgment in conformity with the decision, were reduced to writing
and dated of that day. They were, however, not filed with
the clerk of the court until June 22, 1877, upon which day he
recorded the judgment.
In the afternoon of June 21, 1877, after the announcement
of the decision, the individuals above named met as a board
of directors of the mining company, when its president informed them that the account of the company with the bank,
its treasurer, was overdrawn to the amount of $6,319.59, gold
coin of the United States, and that the manager of the bank
requested either the money or the note of the company. A
resolution was thereupon adopted authorizing the president
and secretary to execute, and they then did execute, in behalf
of the company, a note for $7,500, payable in coin, and with
interest thereon at the rate of one and a half per cent per
month until paid. The note was intended to cover as well
the amount overdrawn as anticipated advances. But no such
advances were afterwards made.
When the foregoing resolution was passed, the persons participating in its adoption had notice of the decision announced
by the court in manner and form as stated.
The present action is to recover from the company the
amount of its overdraft. The complaint, framed in accordance
VOL.

XIV.

13

194

MINING Co. v. ANGLO-CALIFORNIAN BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

with the Code of Procedure of California, contains two paragraphs or counts: one, for $6,351.72 gold coin, on an account,
as of June 26, 1877, for money lent by the bank to the company, and for money paid, laid out, and expended by the
former to and for the use of the latter; the other, for a like
amount, with interest, being the balance alleged to be due
upon the note referred to, after deducting all just offsets, which
note, it is averred, was given in consideration of the amount
due the bank upon an account stated between the parties on
the 21st of June, 1877.
The court gave judgment against the company for the
amount of the overdraft, with interest at the rate specified in
the note. And from that judgment the present writ of error
is prosecuted.
We are all of opinion that the bank is entitled to recover
the amount of the overdraft as shown by the checks signed by
the president and secretary of the mining company.
. Upon the board of directors of the mining company was
imposed, by the laws of California (Civil Code, sect. 305),
the duty of exerting its corporate powers, and of conducting
and controlling its business and property. Among the powers which the company had (Civil Code, sect. 354) was the
power " to enter into any obligations or contracts, essential to
the transaction of its ordinary affairs, or for the purposes for
which it was created." Necessarily, therefore, the board bad
authority not only to designate the banking institution in
which the money of the company should be deposited, but to
prescribe the mode in which, and the officers by whom, it
should be withdrawn, from time to time, for the use of the
company. It is equally clear that the board had, as incident
to the general powers conferred by law upon the company,
power to borrow money for the purposes of the corporation,
and to invest certain officers with authority to negotiate loans,
to execute notes, and to sign checks drawn against its bank
account. And it is settled law that the existence of such authority in subordinate officers may, in the absence of express
statutory prohibition, be shown otherwise than by the official
record of the proceedings of the board. It may be established
by proof of the course of business between the parties them-

Oct. 1881.]

MINING

Co. v.

ANGLO-CALIFORNIAN

BANK.

195

selves; by the usages and practice which the company may
have permitted to grow up in its business; and by the knowledge which the board, charged with the duty of controlling
and conducting the transactions and property of the corporation, had, or must be presumed to have had, of the acts and
doings of its subordinates in and about the affairs of the corporation. Since checks against the account of the mining
company must, in the ordinary course of its banking business,
have been signed by some officer or officers designated for that
purpose, the bank had the right, in view of the long period
during which the checks of that company were signed by its
president and secretary, -without
objection, so far as the
record shows, upon the part of the company's board, -to
assume that those officers had been invested, by the board,
with authority to sign all checks drawn against the company's
bank account. So long, therefore, as the mining company had
money to its credit on the books of the bank, the latter, in the
absence of notice that the president and secretary of the former
had no authority to sign checks, was justified in honoring all
checks signed by those officers. This much we do not understand counsel to dispute. Their contention, upon this branch
of the case, relates mainly to the liability of the mining company for the amount of any overdraft checks signed by its
president and secretary.
Touching that liability, we have to say that since the mining
company had power, under its charter, to raise money in that
mode, for use in its corporate business, and since an indebtedness thus created would, in the usual course of business, be
evidenced by the checks of its president and secretary, the
presumption should be indulged, not only that those officers,
in making an overdraft, did not exceed their authority, but
that the moneys thus obtained were paid over to or received
by the company. But that is a mere presumption arising from
the conduct of the parties, as well as from the general mode in
which corporations organized for profit conduct their business.
That presumption, if not, under the special circumstances of
this case, conclusive, might have been overthrown by affirmative proof of want of authority, express or implied, in the
president and secretary of the mining company to make over-

196

MINING

Co. v.

ANGLO-CALIFORNIAN

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

draft checks, and by proof that the company did not receive
the money paid thereon by the bank. There is, however, no
such proof in this case. The finding is entirely silent as to
whether the company did not receive and use the money.
And the finding that "no resolution or special authority of the
defendant was shown authorizing its president and secretary,
or either of them, to overdraw its account in bank," fairly interpreted, means nothing more than that no proof was made,
either way, on that point. It does not necessarily imply that
a resolution to that effect was not, in fact, passed, nor that
such special authority was not, in effect, given. The meagre
evidence upon which, according to the special finding, the case
was tried below, is, we think, insufficient to overturn the presumptions which should be indulged in favor as well of the
bank as of the integrity and fidelity of the officers of the
mining company.
This conclusion would render it unnecessary to consider any
other question in the case, did not the judgment of the court
give interest upon the amount due the bank at the rate stipulated in the note. By the laws of California, unless there be
an express contract in writing, fixing a different rate, interest
is payable on all moneys at the rate of seven per cent per annum, on any instrument of writing, except a judgment, and on
moneys lent, or due on any settlement of account, from the
day on which the balance is ascertained, and on moneys received to the use of another and detained from him. The
majority of the court are of opinion that the judgment for the
amount of the overdraft, with interest at the agreed rate, must
stand ; this, because the decree of ouster against the persons
who passed the resolution of June 21, 1877, did not take effect
until the succeeding day when it was actually filed with the
clerk and entered on the record; and because, in the language
of Mr. Justice Field, who tried the case, the "parties ousted
were officers de facto, holding under color of an election, having
charge of the affairs of the company, and capable of binding
it in all matters legitimately devolving upon directors of the
company." Anglo- Californian Bank v. Mahoney Mining Co.,
5 Sawyer, 255, 258.
Judgment affirmed.

