Oct. 1881.]

EGBERT V. LIPPMANN.

line was located. And we said that the terms of the grant
did not require the land to be contiguous to the road; and if
not contiguous, it was not easy to say at what distance the
land to be selected would cease to be along the line. This
language was used with reference to the objection in the case,
that land could not be taken beyond the twenty-mile limit,
where all within that limit had been previously exhausted. We
did not intend to intimate that the land granted could be taken
at any distance, without regard to previous appropriations, but
only that land could be thus taken where, from previous appropriations, as in that case, the grant could not otherwise be
satisfied.
Decree affirmed.

EGBEIRT v. LIPPMANN.
1. Reissued letters-patent No. 5216, granted Jan. 7, 1873, to Frances Lee Barnes,
executrix of Samuel H1.Barnes, deceased, for an "improvement in corsetsprings," are void, the invention for which the original letters, bearing date
July 17, 1866, were granted, having with his consent been. in public use
for more than two years prior to his application for them.
2. There may be a public use of the invention although but a single machine
or device for which the letters were subsequently granted was used only
by one person.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mri. J. C. Clayton and ir. Anthony Q. Keasbey for the appellant.
Mr. John B. Staples, contra.
MR. JUSTrcn WOODs delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought for an alleged infringement of the
complainant's reissued letters-patent, No. 5216, dated Jan.
7, 1873, for an improvement in corset-springs.
The original letters bear date July 17, 1866, and were issued
to Samuel H. Barnes. The reissue was made to the complainant, under her then name, Frances Lee Barnes, executrix of
the original patentee.

EGBERT V. LIPPMANN.

[Sup. Ct.

The specification for the reissue declares :"This invention consists in forming the springs of corsets of two
or more metallic plates, placed one upon another, and so connected
as to prevent them from sliding off each other laterally or edgewise,
and at the same time admit of their playing or sliding upon each
other, in the direction of their length or longitudinally, whereby
their flexibility and elasticity are greaily increased, while at the
same timc much strength is obtained."
The second claim is as follows:

-

"A pair of corset-springs, each member of the pair being composed of two or more metallic plates, placed one on another, and
fastened together at their centres, and so connected at or near each
end that they can move or play on each other in the direction
of their length."
The bill alleges that Barnes was the original and first inventor of the improvement covered by the reissued letterspatent, and that it had not, at the time of his application for
the original letters, been for more than two years in public use
or on sale, with his consent or allowance.
The answer takes issue on this averment and also denies infringement. On a final hearing the court dismissed the bill,
and the complainant appealed.
As to the second defence above mentioned, it is sufficient to
say that the evidence establishes beyond controversy the infringement by the defendants of the second claim of the reissue.
We have, therefore, to consider whether the defence that the
patented invention had, with the consent of the inventor, been
publicly used for more than two years prior to his application
for the original letters, is sustained by thb testimony in the
record.
The sixth, seventh, and fifteenth sections of the act of July
4, 1836, c. 357 (5 Stat. 117), as qualified by the seventh section of the act of March 3, 1839, c. 88 (id. 353), were in
force at the date of his application. Their effect is to render
letters-patent invalid if the invention which they cover was in
public use, with the consent and allowance of the inventor, for
more than two years prior to his application. Since the
passage of the act of 1839 it has been strenuously contended

Oct. 1881.]

O GBERT V. LIPPMANN.

that the public use of an invention for more than two years
before such application, even without his consent and allowance, renders the letters-patent therefor void.
It is unnecessary in this case to decide this question, for the
alleged use of the invention covered by the letters-patent to
Barnes is conceded to have been with his express consent.
The evidence on which the defendants rely to establish a
prior public use of the invention consists mainly of the testimony of the complainant.
She testifies that Barnes invented the improvement covered
by his patent between January and May, 1855; that between
the dates named the witness and her friend Miss Cugier were
complaining of the breaking of their corset-steels. Barnes,
who was present, and was an intimate friend of the witness,
said he thought he could make her a pair that would not break.
At their next interview he presented her with a pair of corsetsteels which he himself had made. The witness wore these
steels a long time. In 1858 Barnes made and presented to her
another pair, which she also wore a long time. When the
corsets in which these steels were used wore out, the witness
ripped them open and took out the steels and put them in new
corsets. This was done several times.
It is admitted, and, in fact, is asserted, by complainant,
that these steels embodied the invention afterwards patented
by Barnes and covered by the reissued letters-patent on which
this suit is brought.
Joseph H. Sturgis, another witness for complainant, testifies
that in 1863 Barnes spoke to him about two inventions made
by himself, one of which was a corset-steel, and that he went
to the house of Barnes to see them. Before this time, and
after the transactions testified to by the complainant, Barnes
and she had intermarried. Barnes said his wife had a pair of
steels made according to his invention in the corsets which she
was then wearing, and if she would take them off he would
show them to witness. Mrs. Barnes went out, and returned
with a pair of corsets and a pair of scissors, and ripped the corsets open and took out the steels. Barnes then explained to
witness how they were made and used.
This is the evidence presented by the record, on which the

EGBERT v. LTPPmANN.

[Sup. Ct.

defendants rely to establish the public use of the invention by
the patentee's consent and allowance.
The question for our decision is, whether this testimony
shows a public use within the meaning of the statute.
We observe, in the first place, that to constitute the public
use of an invention it is not necessary that more than one of
the patented articles should be publicly used. The use of a
great number may tend to strengthen the proof, but one welldefined case of such use is just as effectual to annul the patent
as many. McClurq v. Kingsland, 1 How. 202; Consolidated
Fruit-Jar Co. v. Vright, 94 U. S. 92; Pitts v. -Mall, 2 Blatchf.
229. For instance, if the inventor of a mower, h printingpress, or a railway-car makes and sells only one of the articles invented by him, and allows the vendee to use it for
two years, without restriction or limitation, the use is just
as public as if he had sold and allowed the use of a great
number.
We remark, secondly, that, whether the use of an invention
is public or private does not necessarily depend upon the number of persons to whom its use is known. If an inventor, having made his device, gives or sells it to another, to be used by
the donee or vendee, without limitation or restriction, or injunction of secrecy, and it is so used, such use is public, even
though the use and knowledge of the use may be confined to
one person.
We say, thirdly, that some inventions are by their very
character only capable of being used where they cannot be
seen or observed by the public eye. An invention may consist
of a lever or spring, hidden in the running gear of a watch, or
of a rachet, shaft, or cog-wheel covered from view in the recesses of a machine for spinning or weaving. Nevertheless, if
its inventor sells a machine of which his invention forms a
part, and allows it to be used without restriction of any kind,
the use is a public one. So, on the other hand, a use necessarily open to public view, if made in good faith solely to test
the qualities of the invention, and for the purpose of experiment, is not a public use within the meaning of the statute.
-Elizabethv. Pavement Company, 97 U. S. 126; Shaw v. Cooper,
7 Pet. 292.

Oct. 1881.]

EGBERT V. LIPPMANN.

Tested by these principles, we think the evidence of the
complainant herself shows that for more than two years before
the application for the original letters there was, by the consent and allowance of Barnes, a public use of the invention,
covered by them. He made and gave to her two pairs of corsetsteels, constructed according to his device, one in 1855 and one
in 1858. They were presented to her for use. He imposed
no obligation of secrecy, nor any condition or restriction whatever. They were not presented for the purpose of experiment,
nor to test their qualities. No such claim is set up inher testimony. The invention was at the time complete, and there
is no evidence that it was afterwards changed or improved.
The donee of the steels used them for years for the purpose
and in the manner designed by the inventor. They were not
capable of any other use. She might have exhibited them to
any person, or made other steels of the same kind, and used
or sold them without violating any condition or restriction
imposed on her by the inventor.
According to the testimony of the complainant, the invention
was completed and put to use in 1855. The inventor slept on
his rights for eleven years. Letters-patent were not applied
for till March, 1866. In the mean time, the invention had
found its way into general, and almost universal, use. A great
part of the record is taken up with the testimony of the manufacturers and venders of corset-steels, showing that before he
applied for letters the principle of his device was almost universally used in the manufacture of corset-steels. It is fair to
presume that having learned from this general use that there
was some value in his invention, he attempted to resume, by
h'is application, what by his acts he had clearly dedicated to
the public.
" An abandonment of an invention to the public may be
evinced by the conduct of the inventor at any time, even
within the two years named in the law. The effect of the law
is that no such consequence will necessarily follow from the
invention being in public use or on sale, with the inventor's
consent and allowance, at any time within two years before
his application ; but that, if the invention is in public use or
on sale prior to that time, it will be conclusive evidence of
VOL. XIV.

22

EGBERT v. LIPPMANN.

[Sup. Ct.

abandonment, and the patent will be void." Elizabeth v. Pavement Company, supra.
We are of opinion that the defence of two years' public use,
by the consent and allowance of the inventor, before he made
application for letters-patent, is satisfactorily established by
the evidence.
Decree affirmed.
MILLER dissenting.
The sixth section of the act of July 4, 1836, c. 357, makes
it a condition of the grant of a patent that the invention for
which it was asked should uot, at the time of the application
for a patent, " have been in public use or on sale with the
consent or allowance " of the inventor or discoverer. Section
fifteen of the same act declares that it shall be a good defence
to an action for infringement of the patent, that it had been in
public use or on sale with the consent or allowance of the
patentee before his application. This was afterwards modified
by the seventh section of the act of March 3, 1839, c. 88,
which declares that no patent shall be void on that ground
unless the prior use has been for more than two years before
the application.
This is the law under which the patent of the complainant
held
void by the opinion just delivered. The previous part
is
of the same section requires that the invention must be one
" not known or used by others " before the discovery or invention made by the applicant. In this limitation, though in the
same sentence as the other, the word " public" is not used, so
that the use by others which would defeat the applicant, if without his consent, need not be public ; but where the use of his
invention is by his consent or allowance, it must be public or it
will not have that effect.
The reason of this is undoubtedly that, if without his consent others have used the machine, composition, or manufacture, it is strong proof that he was not the discoverer or first
inventor. In that case he was not entitled to a patent. If the
use was with his consent or allowance, the fact that such consent or allowance was first obtained is evidence that he was the
inventor, and claimed to be such. In such case, he was not to

MR. JUSTICE

Oct. 1881.]

EGBERT V. LiPPMANN.

lose his right to a patent, unless the use which he permitted
was such as showed an intention of abandoning his invention
to the public. It must, in the language of the act, be in public use or on sale. If on sale, of course the public who buy
can use it, and if used in public with his consent, it may be
copied by others. In either event there is an end of his exclusive right of use or sale.
The word public is, therefore, an important member of the
sentence. A private use with consent, which could lead to no
copy or reproduction of the machine, which taught the nature
of the invention to no one but the party to whom such
consent was given, which left the public at large as ignorant of this as it was before the author's discovery, was no
abandonment to the public, and did not defeat his claim for a
patent. If the little steel spring inserted in a single pair of
corsets, and used by only one woman, covered by her outerclothing, and in a position always withheld from public observation, is a public use of that piece of steel, I am at a loss to
know the line between a private and a public use.
The opinion argues that the use was public, because, with the
consent of the inventor to its use, no limitation was imposed in
regard to its use in public. It may be well imagined that a
prohibition to the party so permitted against exposing her use
of the steel spring to public observation would have been supposed to be a piece of irony. An objection quite the opposite
of this suggested by the opinion is, that the invention was
incapable of a public use. That is to say, that while the
statute says the right to the patent can only be defeated by a
use which is public, it is equally fatal to the claim, when it is
permitted to be used at all, that the article can never be used
in public.
I cannot on such reasoning as this eliminate from the statute
the word public, and disregard its obvious importance in connection with the remainder of the act, for the purpose of
defeating a patent otherwise meritorious.

