WORLEY v. TOBACCO CO.

[Sup. Ct.

WORLEY v. TOBACCO COMPANY.
1. Letters-patent No. 181,512, granted Aug. 22, 1876, to Christian Worley and
Henry McCabe, for an improvement in manufacturing plug-tobacco are
void, inasmuch as the improvement therein described was, with the consent
of the inventor, in public use for more than two years prior to his application therefor.
2. Eybert v. Lippmana (supra, p. 333) cited and approved.
3. An inventor cannot relieve himself of the consequences of such use by assigning to those who used his invention an interest therein, or in the letterspatent granted therefor.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Robert H. Parkinson for the appellants.
No counsel appeared for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill of complaint avers that letters-patent No. 181,512,
bearing date Aug. 22, 1876, were issued to Christian Worley
and Henry McCabe, the complainants, for an improvement in
manufacturing plug-tobacco, of which Worley was the inventor,
and McCabe his assignee of an undivided half, and that the
defendants were infringing them. It prays for an injunction
to restrain further infringement, and for damages and an account of profits. The answer asserts the invalidity of the letters, and denied infringement. Upon final hearing the Circuit
Court dismissed the bill, and the complainants appealed.
The specifications on which these letters-patent were issued
declare as follows: "The common way to proceed in finishing plug-tobacco is to
press the bunches into plugs having the form seen in the retail
stores. The plugs are next removed from the moulds in which
they are pressed, and packed in boxes, and the boxes placed in
a room where the tobacco is sweated and cured. The plugs are
afterward taken from the boxes, and subjected to a second pressing
before they are packed in the boxes for sale.
"My improved mode consists in finishing tobacco by placing the
plugs in a box in alternate layers with thin metal plates, applying

Oct. 1881.]

WORLEY V. TOBACCO CO.

extreme pressure thereto, and subjecting the plugs to dry heat for
several hours, while they are tightly compressed between the plates
which are in contact with the broad sides of the plugs; and, finally
removing the box, and leaving the contents therein until cold, the
whole process being adapted to give a fine and smooth finish to the
wrapper, and by putting the plug in proper condition, doing away
with its tendency to bulge out at the sides, as plugs are apt to
do when they have not been thus treated."
The claim was thus set forth: "I am aware that there is not any novelty in, first, the simple
finishing of tobacco by placing it in a heated room, and, secondly,
the simple pressing of tobacco between metallic plates, and, therefore, I do not claim this distinct heating and pressing of tobacco
broadly; but what I do claim as new and of my invention, and
desire to secure by letters-patent, is
" The mode of finishing tobacco substantially as described, consisting of placing the plugs in a box in alternate layers with thin
metal plates, applying extreme pressure thereto, and subjecting the
plugs to dry heat of about 140' Fahrenheit for several hours while
they are tightly compressed between the plates, which are in
contact with the broad sides of the plugs, and finally removing the
box and leaving the contents therein until cold."
It will be seen that the patent disclaims the simple pressing
of tobacco between plates, and the finishing of it by simply
placing it in a heated room.
What appellants insist is new is this, namely, that while
the plugs of tobacco are still confined in the finisher (which is
the name given to the box in which they are placed before
being subjected to extreme pressure), and while still tightly
compressed between the metallic plates, they are placed in a
sweat-room and allowed to remain several hours, and before
being removed from the finisher are taken from the sweatroom and allowed to cool.
This process, it is contended, brings the oil of the tobacco to
the surface of the plug, and gives it a glossy coating which improves its appearance, and keeps the tobacco from moulding or
swelling.
The letters-patent are, therefore, for the process described,
and nothing more. None of the appliances by which it is

WORLEY v. TOBACCO Co.

[Sup. Ct.

carried on are claimed as new, and the evidence abundantly
shows that they are all old devices.
The appellees insist that the letters are void, because the
improvement described therein was in public use at the factory
where Worley was employed for more than two years prior to
his .application therefor.
The law applicable to the case is sect. 24 of the act of July
8, 1870, c. 230, now embodied in the Revised Statutes as sect.
4886, which declares: " Any person who has invented or discovered any new and useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof
not known or used by others in this country, and not patented
or described in any printed publication in this or any foreign
country before his invention or discovery thereof, and not in
public use or on sale for more than two years prior to his
application, unless the same is proved to have been abandoned,
may, upon payment of the fees required by law, and other due
proceedings had, obtain a patent therefor."
Neither the bill of complaint nor the evidence shows the
date of Worley's application, nor the assignment of an undivided half of his invention to McCabe. The date of the letters
must consequently be taken as the date of the application and
assignment. The question is, therefore, whether the improvement patented to Worley was in public use for more than two
years prior to that date; that is to say, whether a public use
prior to Aug. 22, 1874, is proven.
We think that the testimony of the appellants themselves
shows that this question must be answered in the affirmative.
From their depositions the following state of facts appears: McCabe was the proprietor of a tobacco manufactory in the
city of St. Louis, and Worley was in his employment as a
workman in the factory. In the summer of 1869 McCabe
moved his factory from Second Street to Cass Avenue, and lost
about two months of good working weather in so doing. The
work of the factory was consequently carried on pretty late in
the fall, and McCabe told Worley that they should have to go
to work early in the spring. It was to prevent the sweating of
tobacco which was manufactured in the spring of the year that
Worley, in the fall of 1869, conceived the process for which he

Oct. 1881.]

WORLEY v. TOBACCO CO.

afterwards obtained his patent. It was at the suggestion of
McCabe that he turned his attention to the subject, and the
process was contrived for McCabe's benefit. It is not pretended that Worley and McCabe were joint inventors. The
invention was made by Worley alone. He at once began
using his invention in McCabe's factory. He testifies that it
was complete, and he became satisfied with its results, in 1871.
It is true that after that date he made experiments to decide
upon the best mode of constructing his finishers so as to secure
the requisite strength ; but the finisher constituted no part of
his patented invention. In 1871 his invention was complete,
and in his opinion successful, and was adhered to from that
date, without change.
The process was used in the factory of McCabe under the
direction of Worley until the application was filed for the patent in 1876, and according to the testimony of McCabe, Worley continued the process for McCabe's benefit, who paid him
a salary larger than was usual for his knowledge as a tobacco
manufacturer. During all the time from 1870 to 1876 thousands of pounds of tobacco finished by means of this process in
the factory of McCabe were sold in the market every year.
No injunction of secrecy was laid on McCabe by Worley, no
one was excluded from the factory where his process was carried on, and at least one manufacturer learned the process from
observing it in McCabe's factory, and adopted it and used it in
his own. Worley, it is true, testifies that lie told several of the
hands employed inthe factory not to say anything about what
they were doing, and McCabe says that before the patent was
obtained there was "an outside understanding" that they were
"to keep it away from the public eye as much as possible."
The testimony of the appellants on this point is most vague
and unsatisfactory, and it is evident that no means were taken
by them to keep the process invented by Worley a secret, and
it was not kept a secret. Worley, according to his own testimony, communicated his process not only to McCabe but to
others, and used it openly in McCabe's factory for' a period of
six years before applying for his patent.
It has been repeatedly held by this court that a single instance of the public use of his invention by a patentee, for more

WORLEY V. TOBACCO Co.

[Sup. Ct.

than two years before the date of his application, will be fatal
to the validity of the letters, when issued. Bgbert v. Lippmann, suipra, p. 333, and the authorities there cited.
We think the testimony of the appellants themselves shows
such a public use of the process covered by Worley's patent
as to render it invalid. This evidence brings the case clearly
within the terms of the decision of McClurg v. Ifingsland
(1 How. 202), where it was declared that if a person employed
in the manufactory of another, while receiving wages, makes
experiments at the expense and in the manufactory of the
employer, has his wages increased in consequence of the useful
result of the experiments, makes the article invented, and permits his employer to use it, no compensation for its use being
paid or demanded, and then obtains a patent for it, the patent
is invalid and void.
Suppose Worley had not assigned an interest in his invention to McCabe, and, after obtaining his letters, had brought
suit against the latter for infringement, it is perfectly clear
that McCabe could have defended the suit successfully on the
ground of his own public use of the invention for two years
before the date of the patent. If such defence could be made
by McCabe, it could be made by any one else, for the facts
relied on would render the patent void.
The fact that McCabe, just before the patent was applied
for, became the assignee of an interest in it, does not make
this defence any the less effectual ; for the assignee of a patentright takes it subject to the legal consequences of the previous
acts of the patentee. 3le Clurg v. Kingsland, supra.
The inventor cannot relieve himself of the consequences of
the prior public use of his patented invention, by assigning
an interest iii his invention or patent to the person by whom
the invention was thus used.
We think the evidence of the appellants themselves establishes clearly the defence under consideration.
Decree affirmed.

