DAVIS v. FIREDERICKS.

[Sup. Ct.

tion, so necessarily were the proceedings for contempt in not
obeying. We are led, therefore, to the conclusion that the
order of the court under which the marshal holds the petitioners in custody was a nullity, and that a, writ of habeas corpus
should issue as prayed for, ,unless the parties are willing that
an order of discharge shall be entered without further proceedings.
So ordered.
It is consequently
NOTE. - Ex parte Alabama was argued at the same time and by the same
counsel as the preceding case, and the writ of habeas corpus prayed for was
refused, as the relief thereby sought could be had under that case.

DAVIS V. FREDERICKS.
The court affirms the decree below, dismissing the complainant's bill, it appearing that the lands which he seeks to subject to the payment of his claim
belong to the wife of his debtor, and that the purchase-money therefor was
paid with funds constituting a part of her separate property.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Richard T. lIlerriclc and Mr. Martin F. Morris for the
appellant.
Mr. Samuel Shellabargerand Mr. Jeremiah M. Wilson, contra.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Section 2 of the act of April 7, 1874, c. 27 (18 Stat., pt. 3,
p. 27), " concerning the practice in territorial courts and appeals therefrom," is as follows: "That the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the
United States over the judgments and decrees of said territorial courts in cases of trial by jury shall be exercised by writ of
error, and in all other cases by appeal according to such rules and
regulations as to form and modes of proceeding as the said Supreme
Court have prescribed or may hereafter prescribe: Provided, that

Oct. 1881.]

DAVIS

v.

FREDERICKS.

on appeal, instead of the evidence at large, a statement of the facts
of the case in the nature of a special verdict, and also the rulings
of the court on the admission or rejection of evidence when excepted to, shall be made and certified by the court below, and
transmitted to the Supreme Court together with the transcript of
the proceedings and judgment or decree; but no appellate proceedings in said Supreme Court, heretofore taken upon any such judgment or decree, shall be invalidated by reason of being instituted
by writ of error or by appeal."
As such appeals lie to this court only from the Sapreme
Court of a Territory (Rev. Stat., sect. 702), it follows that the
statement, both as to facts and rulings on which we are to act,
must be made directly or indirectly by that court. In Stringfellow v. Cain (99 U. S. 610), we said that where, under the
practice in a Territory, a case went from the District Court to
the Supreme Court on a statement of facts, and there was a
general judgment of affirmance, the statement of facts made
by the District Court, thus approved and enforced by the
Supreme Court, would be accepted here as a "statement of
facts" made by the Supreme Court under the requirements
of this act. And so, too, if there was a reversal of the decree of
the District Court and a different decree entered in the Supreme
Court upon the facts as stated. In the present case there was
no statement of facts made by the District Court. The only
questions presented to the Supreme Court were those which
arose on the rulings of the District Court in the admission
or the rejection of evidence, and in its charge to the jury
impanelled to try certain questions prepared and submitted to
them. The judgment having been affirmed, Davis, the appellant, asked that a statement of facts be made by the Supreme
Court and certified up with the transcript of the proceedings
on an appeal. This request was complied with, and from the
statement made it appears that prior to July 1, 1871, he held
the title to a certain saw-mill, which on that day he conveyed
by deed, with covenants of warranty, to the appellee, Sarah J.
Fredericks, and William H. Drew. Afterwards, in 1872, Davis
and Drew built a flouring-mill on another piece of land, which
they continued to own in common until March 30, 1874, when
Drew sold his half to Mrs. Fredericks for $2,000; which she

DAVIS v. FREDERICKS.

[Sup. Ct.

paid him in cash from her own separate funds. On the same
day she sold and conveyed to Drew her half of the saw-mill,
receiving in payment certain notes and securities. She subsequently began this suit against Davis to obtain a partition of
the flouring-mill property. As the property was indivisible, a
sale was necessary to effect the partition.
In March, 1875, Davis sued the husband of Mrs. Fredericks,
and attached as his property the half of the flouring-mill standing in her name. In the partition suit, Davis insisted that she
held the property in fraud of his rights as an attaching creditor
of her husband, and he attempted to make proof of that fact
so that he might reach by his attachment the part of the proceeds of the sale that would otherwise be set off to her. For
this purpose he offered to prove that his own conveyance to her
of the one-half of the saw-mill was in fraud of his own rights as a
creditor of her husband. This, as appears from the statement,
the Supreme Court ruled he was estopped by his deed to her
from doing.
The assignments of error relate principally to the questions
arising on this ruling, but we deem it unnecessary to consider
them, as we agree with the court below that, in view of the
other facts which have been directly found, it is wholly immaterial whether there was fraud in the saw-mill transaction
or not. It is expressly stated that Mrs. Fredericks paid for
the flouring-mill in cash from her own separate funds, and with
this found there is nothing whatever in the case to impeach
or in any manner invalidate the conveyance from Drew to
her.
Decree afirmed.

