Micou v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

We think there can be no doubt that it was the purpose of
all the parties to this instrument, and it is clearly expressed
therein, that, as a part of the consideration of the transfer,
Stromberg was released from claims against him arising out of
his transactions in reference to said patent, and that all licenses
granted by him were in effect confirmed. This contract, therefore, affords complete protection to Miller, the appellee, and is
an effectual bar to the prosecution of this suit.
Decree affirmed.

Micou v.

NATIONAL BANK.

This case involves only disputed questions of fact, and the court, upon a consideration of the proofs, holds th-at certain decrees sgainst a guardian in favor
of his wards, whereunder his real estate was purchased by them, they being
his children and lie insolvent, were not procured by him to be rendered with
the intent thereby to hinder, delay, and defraud his creditors.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Middle District of Alabama.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The case was argued by Mr. William A. Gunter and Mr.
Philip Phillips, with whom was Mr. W. Hallett Phillips, for
the appellants, and by Mr. David Clopton and 34r. Ililary A.
Rerbert, with whom was lYr. Santuel P. Rice, for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed by the First National Bank of
Montgomery, to subject to the payment of a judgment recovered by it against Benjamin 1-. Micou, Thomas M. Barnett,
and Nicholas D. Barnett, partners, as Barnett, Micou, & Co.,
certain lands the legal title to which had been transferred to
Henry C. Semple, in trust for Lucy B. Micou, and Clara E.
Boykin, wife of Frank S. Boykin, all of whom, together with
Benjamin 1-. Micou, were defendants below, the conveyance
being, as charged, in fraud of the complainant's rights as a
creditor.
The indebtedness on which the judgment is founded existed

Oct. 1881.]

MICOU V. NATIONAL

BANK.

at the time of the occurrence of the transactions which form
the subject of the controversy.
The fraud charged in the bill is that Benjamin I-. Micou,
being at the time guardian in the Probate Court of Tallapoosa
Cou'nty, Alabama, of his daughters, Clara E. Boykin and Lucy
B. Micou, confederated and colluded with them, and with
Frank S. Boykin, husband of Clara, to procure judgments and
decrees to be entered up against himself by said Probate Court
in the matter of said guardianships, and to have all of his
property liable to sale under legal process, except such personal property as they might aid him to fraudulently convert
to his own use, and excepting some property bought by another
creditor, sold and transferred to his said daughters, with the
intent on the part of all of said parties thereby to hinder, delay, and defraud the creditors of the said Benjamin 11. Micou,
he being at the time insolvent.
By virtue of this conspiracy, it is alleged that settlements
and decrees were caused to be made in said Probate Court,
whereby it was falsely and fraudulently made to appear that
on Feb. 10, 1874, the said Benjamin H. Micou was indebted
to Clara E. in the sum of $88,300, for which sum a decree was
rendered in said court in favor of Clara and her husband
against him; and that on Feb. 24, 1874, said Micou was indebted to Lucy B. in the sum of $88,031.77, for which sum a
decree was rendered in said court in her favor. Copies of the
proceedings in the Probate Court are exhibited. At the time
of the settlement with her, Lucy was a minor over the age of
nineteen years.
It is charged in the bill that in making said settlements
Mieou "did not contend for or desire fair and proper settlements, and that there was no real effort on his part to introduce, as he had it in his power to do, or inform his attorney of
evidence to show that he was not, as your orator avers he was
not, chargeable with the amounts and sums he permitted to be
found against him by collusion " with his daughter and son-inlaw.
The bill further states as follows "Orator is without any
means of showing in this bill the particular items and amounts
improperly and collusively charged against said Benjamin

Micou v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

HI. Micou, and items for which he should have received credit
in such settlements, further than is herein shown, the facts
upon which said settlements ought to have been made being
peculiarly within the knowledge of said B. H. Micou and
the other defendants hereto and not of your orator; but
orator charges that the item of ninety-one thousand six hundred and forty-eight and -%&dollars with which the said
Benjamin H. allowed his account to be surcharged on said settlement was not, and was known to the said Benjamin I-I.
and to the said Clara E., Frank S., and Lucy B., not to be,
legally and justly due from him ; that each item of negro hire,
of which said sum is partly made up, was, if said Beujamin H.
was rightly chargeable with any part thereof, charged at too
high a rate, and that said sum of ninety-four thousand seven
hundred and ninety-nine and 10 dollars was too much by a
large sum, of, to wit, fifty thousand dollars, and that this could
have been shown to the court by testimony, if he, the said
Benjamin H., had desired to make a fair and valid settlement.

" Orator further charges that said Benjamin H. was not, and
he and his said daughters then well knew that lie was not,
chargeable with the large sums, or any part thereof, shown in
Exhibit A and B to have been charged against him for negro
hire and land rent, for that, as orator charges, the said B. H.
Micou was, by orders of said Probate Court, made as shown by
the full 'and true copies thereof hereto attached, and marked
Exhibit D, and prayed to be taken as part of this bill of complaint, authorized to keep his said daughters' property together,
and he was only liable to account for the profits arising from
the same, which were small."
The decrees referred to were rendered in February, 1874,
and by the law of Alabama (Code of Ala., sect. 2794) it is
provided that "all final decrees against guardians have the
force and effect of judgments at law, upon which execution may
issue against them and the securities on their bonds."
The two brothers Barnett, who were partners of Micou,
were also his brothers-in-law, uncles of Clara E. and Lucy, his
daughters and wards, and were sureties on his bond as their
guardian. The decree in favor of Lucy, who at the time of

Oct. 1881.]

Micou v. NATIONAL BANK.

its rendition was still under age, was rendered in the name of
H. A. Garrett, who had been appointed her guardian ad litem
for that purpose.

Executions were issued upon both decrees to the sheriff of
Montgomery County, who also at the same time held some
other executions against the same defendants, under which all
the real estate belonging to the Barnetts and Micou were sold,
and conveyed by the sheriff to Henry C. Semple, who was the
attorney for Lucy B. and Clara E. and her husband, except
one parcel bought in by one Pittman, plaintiff in one of the
other executions, under an arrangement made with him by
Semple on behalf of his clients. Each of the executions in
favor of Mrs. Boykin and Lucy B. Micou was credited with
$19,540.36 as the proceeds of these sales.
Executions were also issued upon the decrees to the sheriff
of Macon County, where Benjamin H. Micou owned a plantation, which he cultivated, and on which, it is alleged, there
was a large amount of personal property belonging to him,
consisting of a crop of corn, cotton, grain, and plantation tools.
The executions first issued to this county, it is charged, were
returned without levy upon the personal property, under instructions from the plaintiffs to that effect, in order to enable
Micou to dispose of it otherwise, which it is averred he did,
and thereafter a levy was made on the real estate, which was
sold and conveyed to Micou himself as trustee. These lands,
it is charged, were worth $6,000, but were sold for $1,250.
Executions on the decree were likewise issued to Elmore
County, under which real estate belonging to Micou, and also
to the Barnetts, was sold to Semple. It is charged that there
was a large amount of personal property belonging to the defendants on these lands, which was not levied on, in order that
the defendants might convert it to their own use by some
other disposition. And it is charged in the bill "that since
the rendition of said decrees there has been a complete understanding and agreement between the parties to said executions
that the plaintiffs therein should so use said decrees, and process to be issued thereunder, as to enable the defendants therein to hinder, defraud, and delay their several creditors, in that
they were to be permitted and aided in converting property to

Micou v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

their own use," as therein shown; and that in further pursuance thereof, notwithstanding the sales of the real estate, the
defendants in the executions have been permitted to remain in
possession thereof for their own use.
The Barnetts were not made parties to the bill, and no relief
is prayed against them.
It is also charged in the bill that Seruple holds the legal title
to the property conveyed to him under the sales on execution
upon some secret trust, in which the Barnetts and Micou have,
by agreement, some beneficial interest.
It is also alleged that, at the time of the settlement of the
accounts in the Probate Court, Lucy B. was a minor over the
age of nineteen years, but that her disability of nonage had
been removed by a special proceeding for that purpose under
a statute of Alabama; but these proceedings, a transcript of
which is exhibited with the bill, show that the decree of the
Chancery Court removing her disability was not rendered until
June, 1874, although the petition therefor was filed in May,
1873 ; and, in point of fact, the settlement by Micou of his
account as her guardian was made, as appears by the proceedings in the Probate Court, on his resignation of his guardianship, accepted of record on Jan. 26, 1874, and was effected by
the appointment of Garrett as her guardian ad litem, in the
matter of the settlement.
In his petition to the Chancery Court, praying for the removal of the disability of nonage in respect to Lucy, her
father states as reasons for the relief, as follows: "Said minor
is possessed in her own right of a considerable estate, real and
personal, and a large part of said personal estate consists of demands against petitioner, which he is now ready and willing
to settle and account for; said minor is a young lady of at
least average intelligence and more than ordinary education
and acquirements, and is, perhaps, as competent now to manage her own affairs as she ever will be. Your petitioner is at
this tine able and willing to settle all her demands against
him. But inasmuch as he is engaged in commercial and
manufacturing pursuits, and as the result of such pursuits is
proverbially uncertain, petitioner may by adverse fortune be
deprived of the means of making such full settlement after

Oct. 1881.]

Micou v.

NATIONAL BANK.

said minor arrives at the age of twenty-one years; and petitioner further states that Thomas M. Barnett and Nicholas D.
Barnett, the sureties of petitioner on his bond as guardian,
are engaged in the same pursuits as himself, and liable to
the same disaster," &c.
In point of fact, at and previous to that time Benjamin H.
Micou was, and bad been, president and managing agent of the
Tallassee Manufacturing Company, No. 1, doing a large business, with its office in Montgomery, Ala., and in which he and
the Barnetts were largely interested as the principal stockholders. The firm of Barnett, Micou, & Co. had in the fall of 1873
lent its credit to said manufacturing company, to the extent,
it is alleged, of $300,000, at which time, it isalso alleged, that
company had become embarrassed, and in December, 1873,
suspended payment.
It is also charged that the firm of Barnett, Micou, & Co.,
and its individual members, were largely indebted on other
accounts, in excess of the value of their property, subject to
levy and sale under process, which it is alleged was not greater
than $175,000.
Clara E. Micou intermarried with Frank S. Boykin, July 10,
1873, shortly after which, it is alleged, and before the settlement with her as guardian in the Probate Court, her father
transferred to her in payment of that sum, on account of what
was due to her from him, $30,000 in the capital stock of the
Tallassee Company, but omitted the same from his account in
thesettlement, in pursuance of the fraudulent purpose already
charged.
Answers under oath are required from the defendants, and
numerous special interrogatories covering the whole scope of
the bill are addressed to them.
The account of Benjamin H. Micou, as guardian of his
daughters, as filed by him in the Probate Court for settlement,
Jan. 13, 1874, is exhibited with the bill. This account begins
with a balance to the debit of the guardian, as ascertained on
a former settlement by the Probate Court in 1859, which, with
interest, amounts to over $20,000, and includes cash items,
being amounts received for them, as distributees of the estates
of T. M. Barnett, Sen., their mother's father, and of the

Micou v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

estate of their mother, which, with interest, amount to about
$70,000; and the other items consisting of sums received on
account of the income arising from their property; but no
income is allowed them for the years 1862, 1863, 1864, and
1865, on the ground that none was received; and the guardian
charges himself with rent for their real estate from 1866 to
1873, rented by himself, at the rate of $1,000 per annum. The
balance admitted by the guardian to be due to the two wards
is $107,430.52.
That this account was rendered in good faith, and that there
was due at the time from Benjamin H. Micou to his wards, at
least, as much as the balance shown by it, are facts not questioned by the bill, but admitted-if not expressly, by necessary
implication-to be true. Indeed, the very fraud charged and
relied on, as constituting the ground of the relief prayed for, is
that the parties did not abide by this account.
It appears, however, by the transcript of the proceedings in
the Probate Court, that Mrs. Clara E. Boykin, by her attorney,
Elmore J. Fitzpatrick, objected to the allowance of certain
items in the account as filed, and it is recited that "the court,
having listened to the argument of counsel, and heard the testimony offered in support of the said objections, decided and
ordered," that the guardian be charged with certain enumerated items. They consisted of amounts charged against him
as hire of slaves for the years 1859 to 1865, both inclusive, and
also rents for land during the same period, and surcharging
the account for rents from 1866 to 1873, and readjusting the account in some other particulars, striking out the items of debit
for proceeds of cotton, and disallowing certain items of credit.
The final result was to credit the guardian with sums in the
aggregate amounting to $22,261.98, and charge him with sums
amounting to $92,553.95. The balance against him, after
allowing for an error in making the addition, was thus increased in the sum of $76,291.08, making the final balance
against him the sun of $185,967.60, of which, after deducting
costs and commissions, Mrs. Boykin was entitled to one-half,
being $88,300. For that amount judgment was rendered in
her favor Feb. 10, 1874, with an order for an execution thereon
against the guardian and his sureties.

Oct. 1881.]

Micou v.

NATIONAL BANK.

The account of the guardian with his daughters was kept
jointly, as their interests in the property had never been separated; and similar proceedings in the settlement with his
daughter Lucy resulted, on Feb. 24, 1874, in a judgment for
the sum of $88,031.77, in favor of Henry A. Garrett for her
use, lie having been appointed her guardian ad liten, to represent her in the settlement.
The accounts as originally filed by the guardian are based
upon the principle of crediting the wards with the net proceeds of the operation of their plantations, carried on for them
by their father, while the accounts, as settled by the Probate
Court, charge him with the risks and losses of the business as
carried on, requiring him to account as if he had rented the
plantations and hired the slaves for his own use, at such sums
as he might have obtained from others.
It seems not to be denied that the latter, under the laws of
Alabama, was a proper mode and basis of settlement, unless
the guardian could show some previous special authority for
carrying on the operations of the plantation in the name and at
the risk of his wards.
In the settlement of Micou's accounts it was claimed on his
behalf, and as a justification of his account as filed by himself,
that such special authority existed; and to prove this there
was produced an order of the Probate Court of Tallapoosa
County, dated July 18, 1859, which, it was claimed, contained
such authority. It appears from a copy of that order, exhibited with the bill, that on Nov. 22, 1858, Benjamin H.
Micon, as guardian of his daughters, filed a petition, setting
forth that it was to the interest of said minors that the slaves
belonging to them be kept together and worked on a plantation instead of hired out, and that for said purposes it was
necessary to purchase a plantation on which to work said
slaves, and to the interest of said minors so to do; suggesting that lie had contracted for the purchase of a described
tract for the purpose aforesaid, and praying for an order authorizing him to purchase and pay for the same. The probate
judge accordingly appointed commissioners to report as to the
value of the lands and the necessity of the purchase. On Dec.
20, 1858, another order was entered, reciting the report of the

Micou v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

commissioners in favor of the purchase for the purpose and at
the price named; and "it appearing to the court from the
report of said commissioners, and from legal and proper evidence, that it is to the interest of said minors that said slaves
should be kept together and worked on a plantation, and that
the purchase of the above-described plantation is a necessary
one," &c., it was therefore " ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
the court that the said Benjamin 1I. Micou do forthwith proceed and purchase said lands or plantation above described, at
the price or sum aforesaid, for the use and benefit of the said
minors," &c., and "it is further ordered that when said guardian
shall have perfected said purchase, and received titles for said
land, le report the same to this court."
On June 23, 1859, the guardian made report of the authorized purchase and of the payment of the price, and that a
title had been made to the lands. This report was approved
and confirmed by an order of the court, made July 18, 1859.
But it does not appear that any further order was made by the
court, directing or authorizing the guardian to keep the slaves
of his wards together and work them on their plantation, at
their risk and expense, instead of hiring them out and renting
the lands. And the Probate Court decided, in the matter of the
final settlement of his accounts, that the order to purchase the
additional land, of Dee. 20, 1858, relied on as authority for
so doing, did not have such effect; and the judge accordingly
adjusted the account and found the balance due on the principle stated.
This judgment is attacked by the complainant below as collusive and fraudulent, and the right to the relief sought rests
upon that charge.
The prayer of the bill is that the decrees of the Probate
Court establishing these balances as due from Benjamin H.
Micou, as guardian, to his daughters, respectively, together
with all proceedings, executions, and sales under them of the
property of Benjamin H. Micou, be declared to be null and
void, and that the lands of Micou sold under them be subjected
to the payment of the debt due to the complainant, and for
general relief.
As required, the defendants answered severally, under oath,

Oct. 1881.]

Micou

v. NATIONAL BANK.

and specifically deny every allegation of the bill charging fraud
and conspiracy. These answers are supported by the testimony of the parties, taken on their own behalf in the cause.
The principal defendant, Benjamin H. Micou, in his answer,
states that soon after his daughter Clara, afterwards Mrs.
Boykin, became of age, " he commenced to make preparation
for settling the whole of his account with his two daughters
of his guardianship of their property, and in the spring of 1873
he collected up his accounts and vouchers in regard to his
management of their estate and placed them in the hands of
his attorney, David I. Blakey, and directed him to make out a
full and correct account for settlement of said guardianship;
and as he desired to be relieved of the responsibility of said
trust entirely, and his other daughter, Lucy, was nearly of age,
he, at the same time, instructed his said attorney to prepare a
petition to the Chancery Court of Elmore County, praying to
have said Lucy relieved from the disabilities of minority, so
that he might settle at the same time with both of his said
wards ; that lie failed to procure a decree at the June Term of
said Chancery Court of Elmore County, and on account of bad
health and absence from the city of Montgomery, and State
of Alabama, during most of the summer of 1873, was unable
to furnish his attorney with the information necessary from
time to time to enable said attorney to properly prepare said
account ; the said settlement was further delayed by the
breaking out of yellow fever in Montgomery in the fall of
1873 and by the financial panic, which occupied the whole
of respondent's attention and compelled him to give the whole
of his time to the management of the affairs of the Tallassee
Manufacturing Company, to the exclusion of his private business, so that he was unable to take up the matter of the settlement of his guardianship until after his connection with the
Tallassee Manufacturing Company ceased, in January, 1874,
and that in making said settlements le did not consult or confer with said Clara or Frank Boykin or Lucy Micou, and did
not give to his attorney any instructions to make out any different account from the one ordered to be made in the spring
of 1_873, when respondent believed himself to be a rich man
and amply able to pay all his debts; and respondent is in-

Micou v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

formed by his said attorney, and believes and so states, that
the account filed by him for settlement of his guardianship in
the Probate Court of Tallapoosa County is substantially the
same that was prepared by his said attorney in the summer
of 1873."
This statement is inconsistent with the supposition that the
settlement of his accounts as guardian was prompted by any
belief in the inminency of his insolvency. And that it was
not so is corroborated by the circumstances of a transaction
charged in the bill as one of the evidences of the fraud alleged
against him. It appears that about the time of the marriage
of his daughter Clara, which occurred in July, 1873, he gave
her certificates of shares of the capital stock of the Tallassee
Manufacturing Company to the amount of $30,000, in payment of that amount of his indebtedness to her as her guardian. She gave a receipt for it at the time; but soon after,
upon its being made known to her husband, and on the advice
of counsel, the transaction was cancelled, as one that he could
not insist upon. The omission to charge this as a payment in
his account is alleged against him as proof of fraud. But if
at this time he was aware of his own insolvency and that of the
manufacturing company, the fraud attempted was against and
not in favor of his daughter. No such uncharitable view of
his conduct has been entertained in any quarter. The more
reasonable and probable supposition is, that at the time he
hoped to support his credit, preserve his business, save his
property and pay his debts, and thus maintain the value of
the property transferred to his daughter. The circumstances
which induced the cancellation of the transaction altogether
preclude the supposition of an intention to perpetrate a fraud
upon the complainant.
Mr. Micou states further in .his answer, "that at the time
be filed his account for settlement in said Probate Court he
did not think lie was liable for the rents and negro hires afterwards charged against him, because he believed that an order
had been made by the Probate Court of Tallapoosa directing
said estate to be kept together, and so informed his attorney;
and, therefore, his account was made out on the basis of charging himself only with the real profits derived from the cultiva-

Oct. 1881.]

Micou
1
v.

NATIONAL BANK.

tion of the plantation purchased for said wards, after deducting the plantation expenses and the expense of stocking said
plantation with mules, utensils, and other stock ; and respondent had no knowledge that any effort would be made to charge
him with the said hires and rents until the question came up
in the Probate Court of Tallapoosa County on the said settlement, when Ehnore J. Fitzpatrick, representing the interest
of said wards, contended that the order which defendant had
always understood to be an order to keep the said wards' estate together, was in fact an order only to buy a plantation,
and insisted on his right to charge defendant with rents and
hires. Respondent's attorney, acting under his instructions,
resisted said claim and argued the' question of the proper interpretation of said order to the said Probate Court, but the
court decided that respondent should be charged with rents
and hires."
That this litigation was adverse and bona fide is testified to,
also, by Blakey, the attorney for the guardian, and by Fitzpatrick, the attorney for the wards, and by Semnple, the regular attorney of the latter, and for whom Fitzpatrick acted as a
substitute on the occasion. They severally deny that there
was any collusion or understanding or concert of any kind
between them or with their clients in reference to the matter.
If in point of fact there was any such collusive agreement,
and a feigned contest in pursuance of it, these witnesses must
have known it,for they were the instruments through whom
alone, together with the judge, it was effectuated; and there is
nothing in the case that warrants the alternative of rejecting
their testimony as untrustworthy.
Some expressions in the deposition of Sturdevant, the probate judge, are referred to in argument as indicating that the
contest before him was not earnest; such as that Blakey, the
attorney for Micou, after a short argument in opposition to
the contention of Fitzpatrick, " yielded the point; " but he
distinctly and clearly states the issue between them, and the
grounds of it. He says that "the whole question turned upon
the fact that there was no authority given to Micon to keep
the estate together and to run the farm; " that he decided that
there was no such authority, and that the account was settled

Micou
upon that basis.

v. NATIONAL BlANK.

[Sup. Ct.

There is no intimation that this judge was

privy or party to the fraud charged against Micou, nor is it
claimed that any fraud in procuring the judgment was practised by the parties or their attorneys upon him. A legitimate
question was in fact submitted to him, and the responsibility
of properly deciding it was distinctly imposed upon him by
the law and the act of the parties. He, rendered his decrees,
and, we have no doubt, in perfect good faith; whether correctly or otherwise is not a question that can be made in this
case. There is certainly nothing in their nature, nor in the
estimate of values contained in them, to justify the inference
that the judge was moved by any illegal or improper influences.
Indeed, we are not referred by counsel to any principle or authority in the law of Alabama to show that, under the circumstances in proof before the Probate Court, the judge ought
to have come to any different decision. But it is enough for
the purposes of this case to find, as we do, that there was no
fraud in the settlements and decrees on the part of either guardian or wards.
There being a failure of proof of the principal fact allegedthe corpus delicti -all the circumstances of suspicion that are
arrayed as evidential lose their significance. That Mieou was
insolvent, and chose to prefer his daughters, to the extent to
which they were his creditors, as his wards, and furnished them
an opportunity, by means of a settlement made in good faith,
and established by the decree of a competent court, to subject

his individual property to their payment in preference to the
complainant and other creditors of the partnership of which he
was a member, may well be admitted to be sufficiently proven.
But it is all that remains, and must be admitted at the same
time to be fully sanctioned by the law of Alabama. The statute of that State, which is invoked as the ground of the relief
prayed for in the bill, prescribes that "all conveyances or
assignments, in writing or otherwise, of any estate or interest,
in real or personal property, and every charge upon the same
made with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors, pur-

chasers, or other persons of their lawful suits, damages, forfeitures, debts, or demands; and every bond or other evidence of
debt given, suit commenced, decree, or judgment suffered with

Oct. 1881.]

cMICOU V. NATIONAL BANK.

a like intent, against the persons who are or may be so hindered, delayed, or defrauded, their heirs, personal representatives, and assigns, are void." Nevertheless, it is equally true,
as it is expressly admitted in argument, that by the law of that
State a debtor has the right to prefer one creditor over another,
although such preference may leave the debtor without the
means of paying his other debts. And thus conferring upon
an insolvent debtor the right of absolute choice among his
creditors, the law does not require one who is at the same time
father and guardian to discriminate against his own flesh and
blood, to whom he is indebted as their trustee.
Even the bankrupt law, which was then in force, and might
have been invoked, for aught that appears in this record, by
the complainant, to prevent the preference of which it complains, as a fraud upon it, assigns to the debt due from Micou
to his daughters, as their guardian, a superior quality to that
belonging to the claims of ordinary creditors; for his discharge
inbankruptcy would not have released him from his legal obligation to his wards. And even had the distribution of his
property, both that belonging to him individually and that of
the partnership of Barnett, Micou, & Co., been made under
proceedings in bankruptcy, the very preference secured to his
daughters by the decrees of the Probate Court would, under
the circumstances of the case, have still resulted. For in that
case the individual property of the partners would have been
first applied to pay in full all their individual debts; leiving
to the partnership creditors, such as the present complainant,
the partnership assets, and only the surplus of the individual
property of the partners. This was precisely what took place
under the proceedings in question.
It is alleged in the bill, and urged in argument, that after
the decrees were obtained, the executions issued, which eventuated in the sales of real estate to Semple, were handled so as
to hinder and obstruct other creditors inthe collection of their
debts, by covering crops and other personal property from levy
and sale; but we have been unable to discover from the record
any evidence in support of the charge ; and the circumstance
that the debtors, after the sales, were not turned promptly out
of possession is not, in our opinion, any ground of complaint on

MicoU v.

NATIONAL

BANIC.

[Sup. Ct.

the part of other creditors, who show no right to disturb the
sale itself. The same remark equally applies to the trust
under which, by agreement with his clients, Semple holds
the title acquired by the purchases under the executions. It
appears from the answer of Mr. Semple, that, on April 4, 1874,
after the decrees had been rendered against Micou, as guardian, and the Barnetts hs his sureties, Clara and Francis Boykin, and Lucy Micou, assigned the same to Semple, with the
right to control, manage, and collect them, upon trust, nevertheless, to proceed so as to secure to Clara and Lucy the title
to certain described portions of the real and personal estate, to
be sold under execution and purchased in by him to that end,
and upon the further trust to purchase as much of the remainder of the property held and owned by the defendants in the
decrees, respectively, as could be sold under said executions
and purchased therewith, and to settle that part of it owned by
Benjamin H. Micou, and sold as his, on his present wife and
her.children, and to settle that part of it so purchased, which
may be sold as the property of Thomas H. Barnett, on his wife
and children, and that sold as the property of N. D. Barnett,
on his wife and children, but in the two last cases subject to
certain charges specified for the payment of money to Clara
and Lucy.
There is no proof whatever that it was in view of this or
any similar arrangement that the settlements and decrees in
the Probate Court were had, or that any such arrangement
was then contemplated by any one of the parties. The contrary is proven by the oath of Mr. Scruple, who testifies that
it was purely voluntary on the part of Boykin, and his wife,
and Lucy Micou, without any consideration from Benjamin H.
Micou or the Barnetts, and suggested for the first time, and by
himself, to them, after the decrees had been rendered, as a suitable thing to be done. The grounds on which he proceeded in
his persuasions to his clients can best be told in his own words.
He says: "After the rendition of the decrees I saw Francis Boykin
and talked with him as a friend as well as his attorney; his
father and mother were old friends of my youth, and I' had
known him since he was a child. I told him that the whole

Oct. 1881.]

MIcou

v. NATIONAL BANK.

property of the guardian, Micou, and his sureties, Tom and
Nich. Barnett, would not pay the debt; that they and their
families would be left penniless; that it would be a hard course
to pursue for him and his wife and Lucy to take everything
they had, as by law they could do, and that common justice
and common decency demanded that they should, out of the
abundance which they would have, make some provision for
the wives and families of their father and uncles. Boykin very
readily agreed to this; but when it came to putting it in writing he seemed to place an exaggerated estimate on the value
of the property, and place many difficulties in the way. I told
him that it was apparent that the ruin of the Barnetts as copartners in Barnett, Micou, & Co. had been caused by the
faith, trust, and reliance they had placed in Micou, his wife's
father; that neither he or his wife or her sister could ever
enjoy the respect or confidence of the community if they did
not make some proper provision for the families of Thomas M.
and Nicholas Barnett, and as to their father's family, of course,
I knew that nature itself would dictate a provision for them.
I suggested to him that the whole property which we could
reach by execution in fact came directly or indirectly from old
Mr. Barnett, the grandfather of his wife and her sister, and
how highly he had been esteemed for his sense of justice and
honesty; that in my honest judgment he and his wife and her
sister ought to consider what Mr. Barnett would do if he were
alive and the owner of the property, and to do it. The young
ladies were entirely willing to do whatever I recommended,
and Mr. Boykin at last consented to make the provision I incorporated in the assignment, which is copied into my answer.
The assignment was made to me as I refused to manage the
matter in any other way. Miss Lucy was a minor, but I expected her disabilities of minority to be removed, and she
engaged to ratify it when she became of age, which she afterwards did. Mr. Micou, so far as I know or believe, had no
part in it and was not informed of it. He was not in town
from the time I suggested it till 'it was executed. I never consulted him directly or indirectly about it, and have no reason
to believe he was consulted by any one else on the subject.
I never spoke to the Barnetts on the subject or any one else,
VOL. XIV.

35

Micou v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

or suggested the arrangement, or any arrangement, for the
assignment of the decrees, or for any provision to be made for
the families of the Barnetts or of Micou, until after the decrees
were rendered. In saying this I mean to state that I never
even spoke to Boykin on the subject of any provision for the
families of his wife's father or uncles until after the rendition
of the decrees."
These motives were as honorable to him who urged them as
to them who accepted and acted upon them; but, independent
of their character, the important fact is that the arrangement
was subsequent to the time when Mrs. Boykin and her sister
had become absolutely entitled to subject all the property in
question to the payment of their decrees, and entirely independent of the proceedings by which they obtained them; so
that it clearly and satisfactorily appears that the decrees were
not in fact rendered by consent and upon the agreement that
such a benefit to the families of the debtors should result.
This being so, the daughters of Benjamin H. Micou had a right
to dispose of their own, free from question, so long as they

infringed not the rights of others; and if they chose, in their
turn, to pay a debt of gratitude to the brothers of their mother,
and to ease the decline of an impoverished father, we know of
no provision in the Code of Alabama which forbids it.
The court below proceeded upon a different view of the evidence, and rendered a decree granting the prayer of the bill.
Its operation is to annul the settlements and decrees of the
Probate Court of Tallapoosa County in favor of Mrs. Boykin
and her sister, and all proceedings under them, and give priority to the complainant's judgment, without provision for
securing them in the amounts admitted to be due them. It
has been forcibly urged upon us in argument that, even upon
the facts as charged in the bill, the decree would be erroneous
in this respect, on the ground that the disability of coverture
as to Mrs. Boykin, and of infancy as to Lucy Micou, and the
circumstances of the fiduciary character of their relation to
their father, rendered them, in law, incapable of active and
responsible participation in an express fraud, so far at least as
to exempt them from all liability, except to restore the actual
fruits realized by them from it.

Oct. 1881.]

STOW V. CHICAGO.

But we have not found it necessary to consider or decide
that question, and it is mentioned merely to exclude all inferences that might otherwise arise.
In our opinion the evidence required that the decree below
should have been in favor of the defendants, and for that error
it must be reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTIcE WOODS did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

STOW V. CHICAGO.
Reissued letters-patent No. 3274, bearing date Jan. 19, 1869, granted to Henry M.
Stow, for "improved pavement," and the letters-patent No. 134,404, bearing
date Dee. 31, 1872, issued to him for "improvement in wood pavements," are
severally void for want of novelty.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. L. lill for the appellant, and by Mr. Lester E. Bond for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
Henry M. Stow filed his bill in equity against the city of
Chicago, charging it with the infringement of four certain letters-patent for improvements in street pavements, in which he
was either the original patentee, or of which he was the assignee. The city denied the infringement, and the novelty of
the inventions covered by the respective patents, and it alleged
license and the payment of royalties. Upon final hearing the
court below dismissed the bill, and he appealed.
In this court he relies exclusively on the first and fourth patents set out in his bill. They will be separately considered.
The first relied on is the reissue, No. 3274, dated Jan. 19,

