MILLER v. BRASS Co.

[Sup. Ct.

MILLER v. BRASS COMPANY.
1. In reissued letters-patent No. 6844, granted, Jan. 11, 1876, to Joshua E. Ambrose, assignor by mesne conveyances to Edward Miller & Co., for an
improvement in lamps, the second claim is void, it not being for the invention described and claimed in the original application.
2. Where a specific device or combination is claimed, the non-claim of other
devices or combinations apparent on the face of the specification is, in law,
so far as the patentee is concerned, a dedication of them to the public, and
will so be enforced, unless he with all due diligence surrenders his patent
for reissue, and proves that his omission to claim them arose wholly from
inadvertence, accident, or mistake.
8. Such lapse of time as indicates his want of due diligence is fatal, and the
reissue, if granted, will be void.
4. The court condemns the practice of reissuing letters-patent with broader claims
than those covered by the original letters.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Connecticut.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John S. Beach for the appellants.
Mr. C. BR. Ingersoll, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought by Edward Miller & Co. against The
Bridgeport Brass Company to restrain the infringement of a
patent, and for an account of profits, &c. The patent was

for an alleged improvement in lamps, and was originally
granted to Joshua E. Ambrose, Oct. 16, 1860, for fourteen
years, and was extended for seven years longer.

It was twice

surrendered and reissued, once in May, 1873, and again in
January, 1876. The court below dismissed the bill on the
ground that the second reissue, No. 6844, on which the suit was
brought, was not for the same invention which was described
and claimed in the original patent. We agree with the Circuit
Court in the conclusion to which it came. The original patent
described a combination of devices, amongst other things, two
domes or reflectors, one above the other, elevated above a perforated cap through which a wick tube and a vapor tube as-

cended.

It was claimed that this combination of devices,

Oct. 1881.]

MILLER

v.

BRASS Co.

especially including the two domes, which admitted the external air between them for producing a more perfect combustion,
would make a lamp which, without a chimney and without
danger of explosion, would burn those hydro-carbons which are
volatile and contain an excess of carbon. The invention proved
a failure, but it was found that the use of one of the domes
(and the other parts), with the restoration of the chimney,
would be a real improvement, and both the complainant and
the defendant made such lamps in large quantities. Fifteen
years after the original patent was granted, the patentee (or
rather his assignee) discovers that the improved lamp was
really a part of his original invention, and that by inadvertence
and mistake he had omitted to claim it. We think, however,
that the court below was clearly right in holding that the invention specified in the second claim of the reissued patent
(which is the one in question here) is not the same invention
which was described and claimed in the original patent. The
latter was for a double dome without a chimney, the peculiarity
of the supposed invention being the use of the double dome as
a means of dispensing with the chimney. The reissue is for a
single dome with a chimney. It is not only obviously a different thing, but it is the very thing which the patentee professed to avoid and dispense with.
But there is another grave objection to the validity of the
reissued patent in this case. It is manifest on the face of the
patent, when compared with the original, that the suggestion
of inadvertence and mistake in the specification was a mere
pretence; or if not a pretence, the mistake was so obvious as
to be instantly discernible on opening the letters-patent, and
the right to have it corrected was abandoned and lost by unreasonable delay. The only mistake suggested is, that the
claim was not as broad as it might have been. This mistake,
if it was a mistake, was apparent upon the first inspection of
the patent, and if any correction was desired, it should have
been applied for immediately.
These afterthoughts, developed by the subsequent course of
improvement, and intended, by an expansion of claims, to
sweep into one net all the appliances necessary to monopolize
a profitable manufacture, are obnoxious to grave animadver-

MILLER V. BRASS CO.

[Sup. Ct.

sion. The pretence in this case that there was an inadvertence
and oversight which had escaped the notice of the patentee for
fifteen years is too bald for human credence. He simply appealed from the judgment of the office in 1860 to its judgment
in 1876; from the commissioner and examiners of that date,
to the commissioner and examiners of this: and upon a matter
that was obvious on the first inspection of the patent. If a
patentee who has no corrections to suggest in his specification
except to make his claim broader and more comprehensive,
uses due diligence in returning to the Patent Office, and says
"I omitted this," or " my solicitor did not understand that,"
his application may be entertained, and, on a proper showing,
correction may be made. But it must be remembered that the
claim of a specific device or combination, and an omission to
claim other devices or combinations apparent on the face of the
patent, are, in law, a dedication to the public of that wvhich is
not claimed. It is a declaration that that which is not claimed
is either not the patentee's invention, or, if his, lie dedicates it to
the public. This legal effect of the patent cannot be revoked
unless the patentee surrenders it and proves that the specification was framed by real inadvertence, accident, or mistake,
without any fraudulent or deceptive intention on his part; -and
this should be done with all due diligence and speed. Any
unnecessary laches or delay in a matter thus apparent on the
record affects the right to alter or reissue the patent for such
cause. If two years' public enjoyment of an invention with
the consent and allowance of the inventorois evidence of abandonment, and a bar to an application for a patent, a public
disclaimer in the patent itself should be construed equally
favorable to the public. Nothing but a clear mistake, or inadvertence, and a speedy application for its correction, is admissible when it is sought merely to enlarge the clain.
The power given by the law to issue a new patent upon the
surrender of the original, for the correction of errors and mistakes, has been greatly misunderstood and abused. It was first
contained in the act of July 3, 1832, c. 357, and the law was
adopted in view of suggestions made in several judgments of
this court. But it was carefully confined to cases where the
patent was invalid or inoperative by reason of a failure to com-

Oct. 1881.]

MILLER v. BRASS CO.

ply with any of the terms and conditions prescribed by the law
for giving a clear and exact description of the invention, and
where such failure was due to inadvertence, accident, or mistake, without any fraudulent or deceptive intention. This
being shown, a new patent, with a correct specification, was
authorized to be issued for the same invention. The act of
July 4, 1836, c. 45, enlarged the power to grant reissues by
adding an additional ground for reissue; namely, that the patentee had inadvertently claimed in his specification, as his own
invention, more than he had a right to claim as new. And,
with that addition, the law has continued substantially the
same to the present time. The fifty-third section of the act of
1870, c. 230, which was the law on this subject when the reissue
in the present case was granted, is in the following words:
"Whenever any patent is inoperative or invalid by reason of a
defective or insufficient specification, or by reason of the patentee claiming as his own invention or discovery more than he
had a right to claim as new, if the error has arisen by inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and without any fraudulent or
deceptive intention, the commissioner shall, on the surrender of
such patent, and the payment of the duty required by law,
cause a new patent for the same invention, and in accordance
with the corrected specification, to be issued to the patentee."
It will be observed that whilst the law authorizes a reissue
when the patentee has claimed too much, so as to enable him to
contract his claim, it does not, in terms, authorize a reissue to
enable him to expand his claim. The great object of the law
of reissues seems to have been to enable a patentee to make
the description of his invention more clear, plain, and specific,
so as to comply with t'hme requirements of the law in that behalf,
which were very comprehensive and exacting. The third section of the act of 1793, c. 11, required an applicant for a patent "to deliver a written description of his invention, and of
the manner of using, or process of compounding the same, in
such full, clear, and exact terms as to distinguish the same from
all other things before known, and to enable any person skilled
in the art or science of which it is a branch, or with which it is
most nearly connected, to make, compound, and use the same.
And in the case of any machine, he shall fully explain the
VOL. xIv.

23

MILLER V. BRASS Co.

[Sup. Ct.

principle, and the several modes in which he has contemplated
the application of that principle or character, by which it may
be distinguished from other inventions; and he shall accompany the whole with drawings and written references, where
the nature of the case admits of drawings." This careful and
elaborate requirement was substantially repeated in the sixth
section of the act of 1836, with this addition: "And shall particularly specify and point out the part, improvement, or combination which he claims as his own invention or discovery."
Although it bad been customary to append a claim to most
specifications, this was the first statutory requirement on the
subject. It was introduced into the law several years subsequently to the creation of reissues; and it was in the thirteenth
section of this act of 1836 that provision was made for a reissue to correct a claim which was too broad in the original.
Now, in view of the fact that a reissue was authorized for the
correction of mistakes in the specification before a formal
claim was required to be made, and of the further fact that
when such formal claim was required express power was
given to grant a reissue for the purpose of making a claim
more narrow than it was in the original, without any mention of a reissue for the purpose of making a claim broader
than it was in the original, it is natural to conclude that the
reissue of a patent for the latter purpose was not in the mind
of Congress when it passed the laws in question. It was
probably supposed that the patentee would never err in claiming too little. Those who have any experience in business at
the Patent Office know the fact, that the constant struggle
between the office and applicants for patents has reference to
the claim. The patentee seeks the broaldest claim he can get.
The office, in behalf of the public, is obliged to resist this constant pressure. At all events, we think it clear that it was
not the special purpose of the legislation on this subject to
authorize the surrender of patents for the purpose of reissuing
them with broader and more comprehensive claims, although,
under the general terms of the law, such a reissue may be
made where it clearly appears that an actual mistake has inadvertently been made. But by a curious misapplication of
the law it has come to be principally resorted to for the pur-

Oct. 1881.1

MILLER v. BRASS CO.

pose of enlarging and expanding patent claims. And the evils
which have grown from the practice have assumed large proportions. Patents have been so expanded and idealized, years
after their first issue, that hundreds and thousands of mechanics and manufactures, who had just reason to suppose that
the field of action was open, have been obliged to discontinue
their employments, or to pay an enormous tax for continuing
them.
Now whilst, as before stated, we do not deny that a claim
may be enlarged in a reissued patent, we are of'opinion that
this can only be done when an actual mistake has occurred;
not from a mere error of judgment (for that may be rectified
by appeal), but a real bona fide mistake, inadvertently committed; such as a Court of Chancery, in cases within its ordinary
jurisdiction, would correct. Reissues for the enlargement of
claims should be the exception and not the rule. And when,
if a claim is too narrow, - that is, if it does not contain all that
the patentee is entitled to, - the defect is apparent on the face
of the patent, and can be discovered as soon as that document
is taken out of its envelope and opened, there can be no valid
excuse for delay in asking to have it corrected. Every independent inventor, every mechanic, every citizen, is affected by
such delay, and by the issue of a new patent with a broader
and more comprehensive claim. The granting of a reissue for
such a purpose, after an unreasonable delay, is clearly an abuse
of the power to grant reissues, and may justly be declared illegal
and void. It will not do for the patentee to wait until other
inventors have produced new forms of improvement, and then,
with the new light thus acquired, under pretence of inadvertence and mistake, apply for such an enlargement of his claim
as to make it embrace these new forms. Such a process of expansion carried on indefinitely, without regard to lapse of time,
would operate most unjustly against the public, and is totally
unauthorized by the law. In such a case, even he who has
rights, and sleeps upon them, justly loses them.
The correction of a patent by means of a reissue, where it is
invalid or inoperative for want of a full and clear description
of the invention, cannot be attended with such injurious results
as follow from the enlargement of the claim. And hence a

JAMES V. CAMPBELL.

[Sup. Ct.

reissue may be proper in such cases, though a longer period has
elapsed since the issue of the original patent. But in reference
to reissues made for the purpose of enlarging the scope of the
patent, the rule of laches should be strictly applied; and no
one should be relieved who has slept upon his rights, and has
thus led the public to rely on the implied disclaimer involved
in the terms of the original patent. And when this is a matter
apparent on the face of the instrument, upon a mere comparison of the original patent with the reissue, it is competent for
the courts to decide whether the delay was unreasonable, and
whether the reissue was therefor contrary to law and void.
We think that the delay in this case was altogether unreasonable, and that the patent could not lawfully be reissued for the
purpose of enlarging the claim and extending the scope of the
patent.
Decree affirmed.

JAMES v.

CAMPBELL.

CAMPBELL V.

JAMES.

CLEXTON V. CAMPBELL.
1. Norton's reissued letters-patent, dated Oct. 4, 1870, for an improved post-office
stamp for printing the post-mark and cancelling the postage-stamp at one
blow, are void, by reason of not being for the same invention specified in
the original.
2. If letters-patent fully and clearly describe and claim a specific invention, complete in itself, so as not to be inoperative or invalid by reason of a defective
or an insufficient specification, a reissue cannot be had for the purpose of
expanding and generalizing the claim in order to embrace an invention not
specified in the original. Burr v. Duryee (1 Wall. 531) reaffirmed.
3. In such case, the court ought not to be required to explore the history of the
art to ascertain what the patentee might have claimed: he is bound by his
statement describing the invention.
4. A patentee cannot claim in a patent the same thing claimed by him in a prior
patent; nor what lieomitted to claim in a prior patent in which the invention was described, he not having reserved the right to claim it in a separate
patent, and not having seasonably applied therefor.
5. Letters-patent for a machine cannot be reissued for the purpose of claiming
the process of operating that class of machines; because, if the claim for

