WOOD V. WEIMAR.

[Sup. Ct.

of the whole work, because the right to abandon followed
necessarily from the right to build. If the water was resumed
while navigation was maintained, no matter how injuriously
it affected lessees, all that could be asked of the State was
to forego the further collection of rents, or refund a reasonable proportion of such as had been paid in advance. The
entire abandonment of the canal could not create any different
liability. Every lessee of power took his lease and put up his
improvements with full notice of the reserved right of the State
to discontinue its canal and stop his supply of water.
This is an accordance with repeated decisions, both in Ohio
and other States, and seems to us fully sustained on principle
and authority. Hubbard v. City of Toledo, 21 Ohio St. 379;
Elevator Company v. Cincinnati,30 id. 629; Trustees of the
W. & E. Canal v. Brett, 25 Ind. 409; Fishbalc v. Woodruff,
51 id. 102; Commonwealth v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 51
Pa. St. 351. We are referred to no case to the contrary.
Judgment affirmed.

WOOD v. WEIMAR.

1. In Michigan, replevin will lie at the suit of the mortgagee of personal chattels
against an officer who, by virtue of an attachment sued out against the
mortgagor, levied upon them while they were in his possession, and who,
when they are properly demanded, refuses to surrender them to the mortgagee.
2. Such a mortgage, executed in good faith to secure the amount actually due
upon what was deemed to be valid and subsisting obligations, will be upheld and enforced, although the several items which make up that amount
are not set forth; provided that subsequent creditors have not been injured by the want of specifications, and the proofs, which are adduced
to establish the identity of the debt, show that it comes fairly within the
general description.
3. An unrecorded mortgage is not, by the laws of Michigan, rendered void as to
creditors, although the mortgaged goods remained in the possession of the
mortgagor, if before the expiration of twelve months from its date they
were replevied by the mortgagee, who thereafter retained the possession
of them.
4. Where the interest on a certain mortgage debt was paid, and the assignee
took from the debtor other notes for that interest which were secured by
another mortgage, the latter cannot, as to them, avail against attaching
creditors.

Oct. 1881.]

WOOD V. WEIMAR.

5. Where the objection to the admissibility of a deed offered in evidence was
grounded on its irrelevancy, no question as to the form of its authentication will be considered here.
6. Where, after replevin by the mortgagee, payments were made on the mortgage debt, he cannot enforce his lien on the mortgaged chattels or their
value beyond the amount actually due him when judgment is rendered.
7. Where the payee of a note dies, and no administration is granted on his estate,
and there are no creditors, his distributees may transfer the note so as to
vest in the assignee the equitable title thereto.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. L. D. Norris for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. _Edward Bacon and Mr. George M1'. Lawton for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIOE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

This was a suit in replevin begun by Wood, the mortgagee
of a stock of goods in a hardware store at St. Joseph, Michigan,
against Weimar, a sheriff, who had seized the mortgaged property under certain writs of attachment, issued by the Circuit
Court of Berrien County, Michigan, against Charles A. Stewart,
the mortgagor. The case was tried by the court under a stipulation of the parties waiving a jury, and comes here on the facts
and a bill of exceptions. The facts are very inartificially presented; a part appearing in the findings of the court incorporated into the opinion of the judge and mixed up with his
reasoning in deciding the case, and the rest in two stipulations
filed in the progress of the trial, one of which was omitted from
the record as originally sent here, but has been brought up
since. An objection is made to our considering these stipulations; but we think the case stands upon agreed statements as
to part of the facts and findings as to the rest.
The facts thus appearing material to the questions presented
by the assignments of error may be stated as follows On the 25th of May, 1875, Stewart mortgaged his stock of
goods to Wood to secure the payment of a debt of $10,465.46,
and interest, on or before Nov. 25, 1875. This was done in
good faith and without any intention to hinder or defraud cred-

WOOD V. WEIMAR.

[Sup. Ct.

itors. The mortgage was filed in the town-clerk's office the day
it was executed, in accordance with the requirements of the
Michigan statute. The mortgaged property remained in Stewart's possession after the mortgage, and he continued his sales
from the stock in the usual course of business. There was no
express agreement between the parties that this might be done,
neither was it prohibited. The mortgage contained the usual
power of sale in case of default, and authorized the mortgagee
to take possession at any time, if lie deemed himself insecure.
The mortgage purported on its face to be executed to secure a debt owing to Wood. The debt was represented by
seven notes, none of which were described. Of these notes,
five only actually belonged to Wood. The five all bore date
May 25, 1875, the same as the mortgage, and were payable to
Wood's order. One for $1,263.43, payable one month after
date, with interest at ten per cent, and another for $250, also
payable one month after date, with interest from June 22 at
ten per cent, were taken in good faith for interest supposed to
be past'due on a mortgage of lands in Berrien County for
$5,000, dated Dec. 22, 1868, and payable in five years, executed
by Stewart to one Terwilliger. This mortgage, together with
the note it secured, Wood bought in good faith, supposing it to
be valid and subsisting, on the first day of May, 1875, after its
maturity, and paid for it $5,000 and accrued interest. Both
the note and mortgage were delivered to him when his purchase was made, and he had them with him at the time the
chattel mortgage was taken. Stewart gave the notes to Wood
under the impression that he owed the interest they represented, and the transaction securing their payment by the
chattel mortgage was in entire good faith.
Full payment of interest to June 22, 1872, was indorsed on
the Terwilliger note on the 29th of August of that year. On
the next day, the 30th of August, Terwilliger released twenty
acres of land covered by the mortgage; and on the 19th of
October afterwards there was recorded in the records of Cook
County, Illinois, what purported to be a deed, with covenants
of warranty, except as to certain incumbrances, dated Sept.
21, 1872, and executed by Charles A. Stewart to Terwilliger,
conveying one undivided half of certain lands in Chicago, "in

Oct. 1881.]

WOOD V. WEIMAR.

consideration of the sum of five thousand dollars, which is paid
by way of the release of a mortgage for that sum, recorded in
liber No. 4 of mortgages, in the office of the register of deeds
of Berrien County, . . . the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged." There was no other evidence except the record tending to show that this deed was ever delivered to Terwilliger, or
that he knew of its being recorded. Wood had no knowledge
of the deed when he bought the mortgage. The note was never
surrendered to Stewart, and the mortgage was never discharged
on the records of Berrien County. When Wood took the chattel mortgage he understood that Terwilliger claimed to own an
interest in the Chicago lands in common with Stewart; and on
the 27th of May, two days after the chattel mortgage was
executed, Stewart made another deed to Terwilliger for an
undivided half of the Chicago lands, which he delivered to
Wood as agent for Terwilliger. In connection with these facts,
the court below said in its findings: "But although there is
some confusion about the facts as to whether the mortgage debt
of $5,000 was understood by Stewart and Terwilliger as having
been paid, on the whole evidence it should be regarded as paid
as to creditors."
To prove the deed from Stewart to Terwilliger, bearing date
Sept. 21, 1872, a copy from the records of Cook County, certified by the recorder under his seal of office, was offered in
evidence. There was no other authentication. This deed was
objected to, " for that it was incompetent, immaterial, and
irrelevant."
The objection was overruled and the deed admitted. Exception was taken, which was in due form embodied
in a bill of exceptions and made part of the record.
As to two other of the notes to Wood, one for $800 and the
other for $1,890, the first payable one month from date, with
interest at ten per cent, and the other one month from date,
with interest at the same rate after June 18, it was found that
after the commencement of this suit Wood realized from other
securities which he held for the payment of the debt of which
these notes represented the interest, enough to satisfy both,
less the sum of $477.
As to another note given to Wood for $669.91, payable in
six months from date, no special facts are found.

WOOD v. WEIMAR.

[Sup. Ct.

The sixth note was for $3,300, payable one day after date,
Jan. 1, 1873, with interest at ten per cent, to the order of
Elizabeth Stewart. The payee of the note had died intestate
before the execution of the chattel mortgage, and no administrator had been appointed on her estate. She left no creditors, so far as the proof shows, but several heirs. One of the
heirs was Cornelia Stewart, and all the others united in an
assignment of this note to her. Wood was in some way related
to Elizabeth and Cornelia Stewart, and Cornelia Stewart had
indorsed the note to him to collect or get security. When he
took the chattel mortgage he had the note and the assignment
from the heirs in his possession. There was due on the note
at the time $4,092.12, and Charles Stewart wished to secure it
by the chattel mortgage. What was done was for the benefit
of Cornelia Stewart.
The seventh note belonged to Harriet A. Stewart; but upon
this no questions arise here, as the judgment below was in
favor of Wood for all he claimed.
When the attachments under which Weimar claims were
put on the property, Charles A. Stewart was in possession.
'The attachment was not made subject to the chattel mortgage; and in the pleadings in this case it is insisted by the
sheriff that the goods were not the property of Wood and
that the chattel mortgage was without consideration, and
void as to creditors. The value of the property taken by
the replevin was $8,870.46.
The attachments were served on the 15th of July, and
were for debts, amounting in all to $7,601.77. On the 11th
of October, 1875, Wood demanded the goods of the sheriff,
who then had them in possession ; but the delivery was refused. This suit was begun on the same day, but after
the demand and refusal. Weimar at the trial waived a return to him of the goods, and prayed a judgment for their
value.
Upon this state of facts the court below ruled
1. That replevin would not lie in favor of a mortgagee
against a sheriff for personal property covered by a chattel
mortgage, seized under an attachment against the mortgagor,
while the mortgagor was in possession, and that consequently

Oct. 1881.]

WOOD v. WEIMAR.

Weimar was entitled to a judgment, the only question being
as to the amount of his recovery;
2. That Wood could claim nothing under the chattel mortgage on account of the notes given for what was believed to be
past due interest on the Terwilliger debt;
3. That his lien on account of the two notes of $800 and
1$1,890 could only be enforced for $477, the balance that remained due after deducting what had been realized from the
proceeds of other securities since this suit was begun ; and4. That he could claim nothing on account of the Elizabeth
Stewart note, as, until administration on her estate, and distribution, her next of kin had no right or title to the note, legal
or equitable, which they could convey for collection or otherwise, and that consequently there was no one capable of taking
or holding security for it.
The result was that the lien of Wood, under his mortgage,
was fixed at $3,295.36. This amount he was allowed to retain
out of the value of the goods in his hands, and a judgment was
given against him in favor of Weimar for the balance, being
$5,575.10 and costs. To reverse this judgment against him
the case has been brought here by Wood. The errors assigned present for our consideration the foregoing rulings
below and the exception to the admission in evidence of the
deed recorded in Cook County.
As to the right to bring an action of replevin. Practically this involves only a question of costs ; for in the progress
of the cause Wood was given the same kind of relief he
would have been entitled to if the court had held that his
suit was properly brought. By a statute of Michigan (C. L.
of 1871, sect. 6754), " when either of the parties to an action
of replevin, at the time of the commencement of the suit,
shall have only a lien upon, or special property or part ownership in, the goods and chattels described in the writ, and
is not the general owner thereof, that fact may be proved on
the trial, or on the assessment of value, or on the assessment of
damages in all cases arising under this chapter; and the finding of the jury or court, as the case may be, shall be according
to such fact, and the court shall thereupon render such judgment as shall be just between the parties."

792

WOOD V. WEIMAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Confessedly Wood was only a lien-holder. The goods were
delivered into his possession under the writ, and their value
was agreed on. Weimar did not ask their return, but was content with a judgment for the value of what had been wrongfully taken from him. His interest in the property was only
that which the attaching creditors could subject to the payment of their debts. Another provision of the Michigan statutes is (id., sect. 6759), that " whenever the defendant shall
be entitled to a return of the property replevied, instead of
taking judgment for such return, . . . he may take judgment
for the value of the property replevied, in which case such
value shall be assessed on the trial, or upon the assessment of
damages, as the case may be, subject to the provisions of section 29 of this chapter. Sect. 29, here referred to, is the same
as sect. 6754, supra. As the court below found as a fact that
Wood had a valid mortgage, it proceeded, notwithstanding the
suit was improperly brought, to ascertain the amount and
value of his lien and adjudge accordingly. This is all that
could have been done if the ruling had been the other way
upon the right to maintain the action.
If this were all there was in the case we should, under our
uniform practice, decline to consider it. No writ of error lies
from a judgment as to costs alone. Canter v. American and
Ocean Insurance Companies, 3 Pet. 307; Elastic Fabrics Company v. Smith, 100 U. S. 110. But there are other questions,
and this may, therefore, properly be taken up. Since the judgment below, the Supreme Court of Michigan has held, in King
v. Hubbell (42 Mich. 597) that although goods mortgaged could
be taken under an attachment if in the possession of the mortgagor, the officer must surrender them to the mortgagee on
demand, after his inventory and appraisement have been completed, unless the attaching creditors dispute the validity of
the mortgage. This clearly implies that replevin will lie if
a delivery to the mortgagee is refused when properly demanded. We hold therefore, on the authority of that case,
that there was error in deciding that the action was improperly brought.
Before taking up the questions arising on the assessment
of damages, it is necessary to consider some objections which

Oct. 1881.]

WOOD V. WEIMAR.

have been urged to the mortgage. It has been found as a
fact that the mortgage was executed in good faith to secure
what were supposed at the time to be valid and subsisting
obligations, and with no intent to defraud other creditors. We
are therefore to enter on our enquiries with this established.
It is insisted, however, that notwithstanding the good faith of
the parties, the mortgage is invalid, because it does not truthfully describe the indebtedness secured. It is conceded that
the real transaction was not set forth in detail. The amount
of the indebtedness the parties intended to secure is correctly
stated, though the several items which made it up are not
specified. They were, however, identified at the trial, and the
honesty of the transaction established. In Shirras v. Caig (7
Cranch, 34), where a mortgage purported to secure a debt of
£30,000, due to all the mortgagees, but was in fact intended
to secure different sums due at the time to particular mortgagees, and advances afterwards to be made and liabilities to
be incurred to an uncertain amount, Mr. Chief Justice Marshall
said: "It is not to be. denied that a deed which misrepresents
a transaction it recites, and the consideration on which it is
executed, is liable to suspicion. It must sustain a rigorous examination. It is, certainly, always advisable fairly and plainly
to state the truth. But if, upon investigation, the real transaction shall appear to be fair, though somewhat variant from
that which is described, it would seem to be unjust and unprecedented to deprive the person claiming under the deed of
his real equitable rights, unless it be in favor of a person who
has been in fact injured and deceived by the misrepresentation." Here it has been found that all was fair. It was
material for creditors to know the amount of the indebtedness
secured, and the property covered. These are truly stated.
To enforce his mortgage, the mortgagee must prove his debt,
and he can recover only to the extent of what he proves. If
the items which make up the debt are particularly described
in the mortgage, it may save trouble in establishing the facts;
but if there has been no fraud, and subsequent creditors have
not been injured by the omission of specifications, identity may
be established by parol. In making the proof, the debt must
come fairly within the general description which has been

WOOD v. WEIMAR.

[sup. Ct.

given ; but if it does, and the identity is satisfactorily made
out, the mortgage will be sustained where good faith exists.
It matters not in this case that the notes actually intended to
be secured became due at different dates, and not at the time
fixed by the mortgage. Suits might be brought on the notes
when they matured, for the recovery of the debt; but the mortgage could only be enforced according to its terms. Possession
might be taken under the mortgage when necessary for the
preservation of the security; but no sale of the mortgaged property could be made until after the condition was broken; that
is to say, until after a failure to pay on the 25th of November.
It is also claimed that the lien of the mortgage was lost
after the suit was begun, because of a failure to comply with
the requirements of the recording acts. These acts prescribe
that where mortgages of chattels are not accompanied by immediate delivery and followed by an actual and continued change
of possession, they shall be void as against creditors and subsequent purchasers in good faith, unless copies are filed in the
proper office. Another provision is that every such mortgage
shall cease to be valid as against creditors and subsequent purchasers or mortgagees in good faith, after the expiration of one
year from the filing, unless within thirty days next preceding
the expiration of the year, the mortgagee, his agent or attorney,
shall annex to the instrument on file an affidavit setting forth
the interest which the mortgagee has, by virtue of his mortgage,
in the property mortgaged. The goods in this case were replevied before the year expired, and while the mortgage was
in full force under the recording acts. The possession of the
property was then taken by Wood. After that the recording
acts did not apply, unless the property was again put into possession of the mortgagor. Nothing of this kind appears in the
findings, and the presumptions are all the other way. We
conclude, therefore, that at the time of the replevin the lien of
the mortgage was valid and subsisting to the extent of the debt
secured by it as established by the findings.
This brings us to the questions arising on the assessment of
damages.
1. As to the notes given for the interest on the Terwilliger
mortgage. The court found as a fact that the Terwilliger note was

Oct. 1881.]

WOOD v. WEIMAR.

"paid as to creditors." By this we understand that, as between
Stewart and Terwilliger, the debt had been satisfied, and that
there was consequently no consideration for the interest notes
given Wood. Such being the case, he could not enforce those
notes against creditors. Although Stewart might, if he saw fit,
recognize the debt in the hands of Wood, and pay it if the
rights of creditors did not intervene, as against creditors an
agreement to pay would not be binding. The court has found
the transaction fair and bona fide as between Wood and Stewart.
This saves the mortgage as to the remainder of the indebtedness secured, but does not make the notes themselves of any
avail against the attaching creditors. We cannot consider the
evidence on which this finding was made. That was the province of the court below.
In this connection it is proper to consider the exception
which was taken to the introduction in evidence of the deed
from Stewart to Terwilliger. The language of the exception,
as recorded in the bill of exceptions, is as follows: " To the
reading in evidence of which deed, plaintiff, by his counsel,
objected, for that it was incompetent, immaterial, and irrelevant." It is now insisted that "the attestation of the recorder
of deeds of the correctness of the transcript was not certified to
be in due form, and by the proper officer, as required by the
act of Congress of March 27, 1804, prescribing the mode in
which the public records in each State shall be authenticated,
so as to take effect in every other State." This was not the
objection made below, and it comes too late here. There the
attention of the court was called only to the competency,
materiality, and relevancy of the deed; here to the form of the
authentication of the copy. The rule is universal that nothing
which occurred in the progress of the trial can be assigned for
error here, unless it was brought to the attention of the court
below, and passed upon directly or indirectly. It is clear that
the ruling complained of in this case was in respect to the
effect to be given the deed when proved, and not to the form
of making the proof. We see no error in the judgment below
as to this item in the claim for allowance under the mortgage.
2. As to the notes of $800 and $1,890. It is insisted by
Wood that collections made by him on the mortgage debt since

WOOD V. WEIMAR.

[Sup. Ct.

the commencement of the suit cannot be taken into account in
stating the amount of his lien; and, if they could, that what was
realized by him from his other securities should be applied on
the principal of the debt rather than on these notes, which
represent only the interest. Wood ought not to be permitted
to enforce his lien on the goods he holds, or their value, beyond
the amount which is actually due him on the mortgage debt
when the judgment is rendered. The judgment must be such
as shall " be just between the parties." If, when the suit was
begun, his lien was equal to the full value of the property, and
it was reduced by payment afterwards, he must account in the
judgment for what is left afterhis debt is eventually satisfied,
but will be protected in respect to costs.
From the finding it may fairly be inferred that the entire
debt, principal and interest, was paid from the proceeds of the
other securities, except the sum of $477. Certainly there is
nothing inconsistent with such a presumption. Before a judgment can be reversed because it is not supported by the findings, the error must be apparent. All intendments are in favor
of what has been done. This assignment of error has not been
sustained.
8. As to the Elizabeth Stewart note. The court has distinctly found that this was a valid debt, which Charles A.
Stewart wished to have secured by the chattel mortgage.
There was no fraud intended; but, on the contrary, everything
was done in good faith. Inasmuch, however, as Mrs. Stewart
was dead and no administration had been granted on her estate,
it was decided that Wood had no lien on the property for the
security of this note. In this we think there was error. Thei~e
can be no doubt, from the facts as found, that in equity the
debt was owing to Cornelia Stewart. There were no creditors,
and all who would have been distributees under an administration of the estate of Elizabeth Stewart had assigned to her
their interest in the note. This assignment, with the necessary
authority from Cornelia Stewart, Wood had in his possession.
There can be no doubt that if Charles Stewart had taken up
the old note, and given another to Wood or Cornelia Stewart
in its place, the new note would have been good as against
every one but a creditor of Mrs. Stewart. So, too, if he had

Oct. 1881.]

WOOD v. WEIMAR.

actually paid the debt instead of securing it, his creditors could
not complain. Such being the case, we do not see why the
security he gave may not be enforced. He owed the debt and
had the right to provide for it without waiting for administration on the estate of Mrs. Stewart, if it could be done with
safety. Of that he was to judge, if he acted in good faith, and
not his creditors. All they can ask is that his property shall
not be charged with its payment more than once. While,
therefore, Wood, as the indorsee of Cornelia Stewart, may not
have had the legal title to the note, he certainly held the equitable title, which Charles A. Stewart was at liberty to recognize
if he would. Having recognized it in good faith and acted
accordingly, his creditors cannot interfere. He was at liberty
to select such trustee as he chose to hold the security lie desired
to give. If there was fraud or bad faith the case would be
different. The court has found against any such claim, and in
our judgment a valid lien was created on the property in favor
of Wood for the benefit of Cornelia Stewart, whose interests he
rightfully represented, and whose trustee he was.
The judgment will be reversed and the cause remanded, with
instructions to enter a judgment in favor of Wood for the costs
of the suit, and against him for only $1,482.98, the difference
between the value of the mortgaged property and the amount
due on the mortgage debt, including the amount adjudged in
his favor below and the Elizabeth Stewart note; the judgment
so to be rendered to bear interest from and after the 12th day
of June, 1878, and it is
So ordered.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY took no part in deciding this case.

