POPPE v. LANGFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

paid in. In all cases of losses exceeding the means of the corporation, each stockholder shall be held liable to the amount of unpaid
stock held by him."
The defendant, Gray, subscribed $10,000 to the capital stock
of the company. He has paid only $2,000 on his subscription,
and still owes the company for the rest. Under the foregoing
section of 'the charter some appropriate action for the benefit of
creditors may undoubtedly be maintained against him for the
recovery of this unpaid balance, if the losses of the company
are in excess of its means.
This suit was at law by a policy-holder of the company,
against the defenctant as a stockholder, to recover an amount
claimed to be due on the policy. There is no averment in the
declaration to the effect that the losses of the company, or its
liabilities, exceed its assets. The case stands on demurrer to
Without, therefore, determining whether,
the declaration.
under the decisions of the courts of Illinois, if it appeared that
there was a deficiency of assets, an action like this might be
maintained, we affirm the judgment below, because we are all
of opinion that, until such contingency arises, a creditor cannot
sue a stockholder to enforce this liability.
Judgment affirmed.

PoPPr

v.

LANGFORD.

This court has no jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment of a State court
affirming that the title of the true owner of lands is extinguished by an adverse possession under color of right for the length of time that would bar
an action of ejectment.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of California.
Langford, the substituted plaintiff in an action of ejeetment,
against Poppe, inthe District Court of the Fifth Judicial District of California, for the County of San Joaquin, recovered
judgment for a tract of land in that county. The only real
question involved in the case, and passed upon by the Supreme

Oct. 1881.]

LOUDON V. TAXING DISTRICT.

Court of the State to which an appeal was taken, is stated in
the opinion of this court.
Mr. C. T. Botts and Mr. James D. Coleman in support of the
motion.

Mr. C. R. Greathouse and Mr. A. Chester, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
It is clear we have no jurisdiction in this case. All the
court below decided was, that in California the title of the true
owner of lands is extinguished by an adverse possession under
color of right for the length of time which would be a bar to
a recovery in ejectment. This is not a Federal question. All
that was said about sect. 1007 of the Civil Code of California
was unnecessary and not required in the determination of the
cause.
Motion granted.

LOUDON

v.

TAXING DISTRICT.

1. Lawful interest is the only damages to which a party is entitled for the nonpayment of money due upon contract. His right is limited to the recovery
of the money so due and such interest.
2. A city entered into a contract with A., whereby it executed its bonds in dis
charge of certain indebtedness to him and agreed to appropriate a specific portion of the revenue derived from taxation to pay judgments in his
favor against it. The city did not apply the taxes pursuant to its contract,
and he was compelled to.pay exorbitant interest to raise money to meet
his engagements. The bonds were not worth more than fifty per cent of
their par value. Ield, that the failure of the city to make the stipulated
application of the taxes furnishes no ground for setting aside the contract,
and that A. is entitled to no other relief than a provision for paying the
balance due upon the judgments out of the taxes levied or to be levied in
that behalf.
3. A party whose appeal has been dismissed cannot be heard in opposition to
the decree.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
The firm of J. & M. Loudon, of which James A. Loudon,
the appellant, is the surviving partner, entered in the year

