Oct. 1881.]

NEVADA BANK V. SEDGWICK.

NEVADA BANK v. SEDGWICK.
Part of the capital of a State bank was invested in foreign countries. field,
that it was subject to the tax imposed by sect. 3408 of the Revised Statutes,
it not appearing in what manner the investments were made.

ERoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John E. Ward for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought by a bank incorporated under the
laws of, and having its principal place of business in, California, against a collector of the internal revenue of the United
States, to recover taxes alleged to have been illegally exacted
under the second clause of sect. 3408 of the Revised Statutes.
That clause provides for the levy and collection of "a tax of
one twenty-fourth of one per centum each month upon the
capital of any bank, association, company, corporation, and on
the capital employed by any person in the business of banking,
beyond the average amount invested in United States bonds."
A part of the capital of this bank was, as is alleged, "invested
abroad and in foreign countries," and in assessing the taxes
this was included as capital with the rest. The case stands on
demurrer to the complaint, and the single question we are
asked to consider is, whether the capital of a State bank " invested abroad and in foreign countries" can be taxed by the
United States. In what manner the investments were made
does not appear. The averment in the complaint is in the
general language we have quoted.
As long ago as 1819 it was said by this court, speaking
through Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in MeCulloch v. State
of Mar!yland (4 Wheat. 316), that all subjects over which
the sovereign power of a State extends are objects of taxation. Acting on this principle, we held recently, in Kirtland
v. Hotchleiss (100 U. S. 491), that a State might tax her resident citizens for debts held by them against non-residents,

RAILROAD CO. v. MELLON.

[Sup, Ct.

and secured by mortgage on property in another State. That
seems to us conclusive of this case. The Nevada Bank was
incorporated and organized under the laws of one of the States
of the Union, and it had its principal place of business within
the United States. It was, therefore, subject to the sovereign
power of the United States, and a proper object of taxation.
The investments abroad are still the property of the bank and
part of its capital. In the absence of any averments to the
contrary, we must presume they were such as banks usually
make in doing a banking business, and that their legal situs
was at the home office of the corporation. We need not consider, therefore, whether, if they had been made in fixed property subject exclusively to another jurisdiction, a different rule
would apply. As the case is presented, it comes clearly within
the principle which was applied in Kirtland v. Hotch/ciss,
Judgment
affirmed.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. MELLON.

1. The scope of letters-patent must be limited to the invention covered by "the
claim," and the latter cannot be enlarged by the language used in other
parts of the specification.
2. So limited, the invention for which letters-patent No. 58,447 were granted,
Oct. 2, 1866, 'to Edward Mellon, for an improvement in the mode of
attaching tires to the wheels of locomotives, consists simply in rounding
off that corner of the inner side of the tire which fits into the re-entrant
corner made by the flange upon the rim of the wheel-centre, so as to prevent the corner of the tire from indenting and sinking into the periphery
of the wheel-centre.
3. Said letters are, therefore, not infringed by the use of an angular flange upon
the wheel-centre, that being expressly excluded by the claim.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
On Oct. 2, 1866, letters-patent No. 58,447 were granted to
Edward Mellon for an improvement in the mode of attaching
tires to the wheels of locomotives. For the purpose of illustration, three figures, numbered respectively 1, 2, and 3,were
appended to the specification on which the application for the
letters was based. The specification is as follows: -

