Oct. 1881.]

WALKER V. POWERS.

WALKER v. POWERS.
1. A judgment is satisfied when, under proceedings ordered by the proper court,
the lands of the defendant are seized, sold, and conveyed by the sheriff
to the plaintiff, he bidding for them the amount of the judgment, interest,
and costs.
2. The assignee of a judgment founded on a contract cannot maintain a suit
thereon in a court of the United States, unless such a suit might be there
prosecuted had the assignment not been made.
3. A bill is subject to demurrer for multifariousness, if one of the two complainants has no standing in court, or where they set up antagonistic causes of
action, or the relief for which they respectively pray in regard to a portion
of the property sought to be reached involves totally distinct questions,
requiring different evidence and leading to different decrees.
4. Where real estate is alleged to have been conveyed in fraud of the grantor's
creditors, and they, after his death, file their bill to subject it to the payment of their debts, - Quare, Are his heirs or devisees necessary parties.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The case was argued by Mr. Joseph P. Whittemore for the
appellants, and by Mr. William P. Gogswell for the appellees.
Mu. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in chancery by Walker and Whittemore, the
general purpose of which is to declare null and void certain
sales and conveyances of real estate in New York, owned by
Nelson P. Stewart, and to subject it to the payment of his
debts. At the time of the transactions mentioned in the bill
he was a citizen of Michigan. He died there in the year 1863,
and George K. Johnson was appointed administrator of his
estate in 1874. No letters of administration were issued in
New York.
The debt on which Walker counts was a simple-contract
debt, which was allowed by the probate judge in Michigan.
The foundation of Whittemore's claim for relief is two judgments. One was recovered by him against Stewart in a court
of New York on the 20th of August, 1862, and docketed on
the 28th of that month in Monroe County, where the land in
controversy is situated; the other was rendered ia favor of

WALKER V. POWERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Elisha W. Chester, docketed about the same time, and assigned
to Whittemore in 1872.
As regards the judgment in favor of Whittemore, the bill
alleges that he, after the death of Stewart, instituted a proceeding in the nature of a scire facias against the terre-tenant
in the proper court, and obtained an order under which the
property so frequently mentioned in the bill as " Congress
Hall," a hotel in the city of Rochester, was sold to him on a
bid amounting to the debt, interest, and costs, and that he received the sheriff's deed for the property, on which he brought
an action of ejectment, which is now pending.
The bill then charges a variety of transactions connected
with the sale of this and other real estate under judicial proceedings against Stewart in his lifetime, and with conveyances
made by him of the same, all of which are said to be fraudulent, and in pursuance of a conspiracy on the part of Stewart,
the purchasers and others, to hinder and delay his creditors, and
defeat them in the collection of their debts. The bill alleges
that other large debts are held by numerous creditors, in behalf of whom, as well as of the complainants, the bill purports
to be brought. Some of the real estate is alleged to be in the
-hands of innocent purchasers for value. Most of those charged
with conspiracy are dead. The heirs or devisees of Stewart,
though. named, are not parties to the bill; nor, indeed, can
they be made defendants, because they and the complainants
ate citizens of Michigan. The administrator lives in that
State, and though a creditor, as the bill alleges, to the amount
of $80,000, is not made a party, nor is any reason given why
he did not take out administration in New York, as it would
have been eminently proper for him to do.
The bill was dismissed on demurrer, and this appeal is taken
by the complainants.
It will be perceived that Whittemore, the principal complainant, founds his right to relief on two totally distinct
causes of action. In one he asserts that, by virtue of a judicial
sale, he is the owner of Congress Hall, and has a complete
legal title thereto, on which he is prosecuting an action of
ejectment. The bill shows that, by the sale under which he
became such owner, his judgment against Stewart was satis-

Oct. 1881.]

WALKER V. POWERS.

fled; and as the execution must be presumed to have been
returned to the proper office with the sheriff's proceeding indorsed, the judgment stands satisfied by the record of the
court in which it was rendered. He has made no attempt to
set aside this satisfaction, but, on the contrary, he is by this bill
insisting on the fruit of that satisfaction, by endeavoring to
remove the cloud on his title, created by the fraudulent proceedings of which he complains. In reference to that judgment he is no longer a creditor of Stewart, nor has he any
debt chargeable on or provable against Stewart's estate. What
interest founded on this judgment has he, then, in any other
property which Stewart held in his lifetime, or in the administration of the assets of his estate? How can he, on the foundation of that judgment, inquire into frauds in regard to other
property than that which he bought? What interest apart
from the judgment in favor of Chester has he in common with
other creditors of Stewart, and how can he maintain any joint
suit with them?
So far from being able to do this, or having any common
interest with them, he asserts a right in conflict with their
interests. If the claim of the defendants who are in possession of Congress Hall, the only property of much value mentioned in the bill, should be declared void as against Stewart's
creditors, then, while it is their interest to subject it to the
general administration among all the creditors, we have Whittemore asserting that this result inures to his sole benefit, as
he has already taken steps by which he has become the exclusive owner when the frauds are swept out of the way.
It is impossible to see, therefore, what interest founded on
that judgment Whittemore has in a general administration of
the assets of Stewart, or that he has any interest in common
with Walker or the other creditors, or a right to call upon
the defendants other than those setting up claim to Congress
Hall.
This view involves no hardship on Whittemore. He has
satisfied his debt against Stewart's estate by the purchase of
that property. The matters he now sets up can be litigated
with the adverse claimants in a separate suit, which would
concern him and them alone.

WALKER V. POWERS.

[Sup. Ct.

In reference to the judgment in favor of Chester, on which,
as his assignee, Whittemore asks relief, it is urged as ground
of demurrer, that Chester being a citizen of the same State
with Stewart, his assignee is incapable of prosecuting this suit
in a Federal court. It was brought in 1876, and the question
here raised must be decided by a construction of the act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137. 18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470.
The first section of that act, after declaring in terms intended to be exhaustive, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
of the United States, and certain limitations on that jurisdiction, as to residence and service of process on defendants, adds
this further restriction: " Nor shall any Circuit or District
Court have cognizance of any suit founded on contract in favor
of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in
such court to recover thereon, if no assignment had been made,
except in cases of promissory notes, negotiable by the law merchant, and hills of exchange."
Since Whittemore cannot sustain this suit on the ground of
his own judgment against Stewart, because that is satisfied by
the sale of property, the only other ground on which he can
succeed is as the owner of this judgment in favor of Chester.
That judgment is, then, the foundation of his suit in the Circuit Court. It is a cause of action which he holds by assignment from a party who cannot sue in that court. Without
this cause of action he has no standing in court, and has no
right to ask the court to inquire into the other matters alleged
in the bill. It is as much the foundation of his right to bring
the present suit as if it were a bond and mortgage on which
he was asking a decree of foreclosure. See Sheldon v. Sill,
8 How. 441.
If, then, the judgment is a contract, it gives Whittemore no
right to sue in the courts of the United States for New York.
There is some conflict in the authorities as to whether a judgment eo nomine is a contract. In I Story on Contracts, sect. 2,
they are divided into three classes, in the first of which judgments are mentioned with recognizances, statutes staple, &c.
It is, however, permissible in all cases, where justice requires
it, to inquire into the nature of the demand on which the judgment was rendered. If rendered on a contract, the judgment

Oct. 1881.]

WALKER V. POWERS.

is a contract, the nature and extent of the liability having been
thereby judicially ascertained.
The bill in this case alleges that "the debt on which this
judgment was recovered accrued in the year 1858." It was,
therefore, recovered on a contract, and the present suit is a
suit to give a remedy on that contract, and any decree rendered in favor of the complainant would be intended to enable
him to recover the money due on the contract.
The Circuit Court, if the judgment of Chester had been
there recovered, might have jurisdiction of the case to remove
obstructions to the enforcement of its own judgment, no matter
who for the time being was its owner. But where a party
comes for the first time in a court of the United States to obtain its aid in enforcing the judgment of a State court, he must
have a case of which the former court can entertain original
jurisdiction. Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290.
It remains to be seen whether the suit can be prosecuted further on the part of Walker.
A very learned argument, with a review of the authorities,
is made by counsel for the appellants to show that it is not
essential to the relief sought that there should be a judgment
and an execution returned nulla bona.
We do not think it necessary to enter upon the consideration
of that question as the case is presented to us.
If what we have already said of the standing of Whittemore
is sound, the bill is liable to the objection of multifariousness
-one
of the points specified in the demurrer -on
almost
to
a bill
be
taken
objection
may
which
that
every ground on
in chancery.
1. There is a misjoinder of parties complainant.
There are but two complainants. Whittemore, as we have
seen, has no standing in the court, and is, therefore, improperly
joined with Walker, if Walker has such a standing ; and the
defendants cannot be required, in litigating with Walker any
right he may have against them, to contest with Whittemore,
who on his own showing has no right in that court. It is
true the difficulty could have been removed if Whittemore
had by an amendment been dismissed from the case. This
might have been done after the demurrer was sustained. But

WALKER V. POWERS.

[Sup. Ct.

no such leave was asked, and the bill, as it originally stood,
was dismissed.
2. The causes of action and the relief sought in regard to
Congress Hall and the other property are distinct, in some
respects antagonistic, and such as cannot properly be joined in
the same suit. Whittemore seeks to have his title established
in regard to Congress Hall, and the cloud on it created by the
fraudulent sales and conveyances removed, so that he may be
declared to be the owner of that property. In this matter no
one is interested but himself and one of the defendants. The
prayer of the bill is that the other property may be subjected
to the payment of Stewart's debts; and in this Walker and all
the other creditors of Stewart are interested, and Ten Eyck
also as defendant.
A case bearing a strong analogy to the one before ns is
.Emans v. Emans, 14 N. J. Eq. 114.
After a partition of real estate among part owners, a controversy arose as to its fairness, which was submitted to arbitrators. They awarded that the defendant should convey to the
complainant 23.30 acres to equalize the partition. The bill
prayed that the defendant might be decreed specifically to perform the award; if not, that the court should declare how
much more and what lands he should convey to make the partition equal; and, lastly, for general relief. On demurrer for
multifariousness the court says: "The leading object of this
bill is to enforce specifie performance of an award of arbitrators. The submission to arbitration related to the fraud or
unfairness of a partition of certain lands devised to the parties,
and included the power of making a just partition. A new
partition was in fact made. If the award cannot be enforced,
the bill further asks that the court will relieve against the unfairness or fraud of the partition. Now, it is apparent that
these are matters of a distinct character. The one relates to
the validity of the submission and award and the power and
propriety of enforcing a specific performance, and the other to
the equity and fairness of the partition. The matters involve
totally distinct questions, requiring different evidence, and
leading to different decrees."
Another analogous case is Sawyer v. Noble and Randall, 55
Me. 227.

Oct. 1881.]

WALKER V. POWERS.

Sawyer and Noble were partners. The bill charges Noble
with many improper transactions justifying a dissolution of the
partnership, and, among others, a fraudulent and pretended
sale of the stock in trade and the good-will of the business to
Randall, his co-defendant. It prays that this sale may be set
aside and the partnership dissolved, and an account and settlement be had between the complainant and Noble. The court
says: " It is obvious that Randall is in no way interested in the
partnership affairs of Sawyer, and that the settlement of the
affairs of the firm and the rescission of a fraudulent sale are distinct and unconnected matters, and properly to be determined
in separate suits."
By multifariousness " is meant the improperly joining in one
bill distinct and independent matters, and thereby confounding them; as, for example, the uniting in one bill of several
matters, perfectly distinct and unconnected, against one defendant, or the demand of several matters of a distinct and
independent nature against several defendants in the same
bill." Story, Eq. P1., sect. 271. In Daniell's Chancery Practice, 335, it is said in explanation of this that "it may be that
the plaintiffs and defendants are parties to the whole of the
transactions which form the subject of the suit, and, nevertheless, those transactions may be so dissimilar that the court will
not allow them to be joined together, but will require distinct
records."
3. It seems to us, also, though of that we are not quite so
sure, that if this real estate is to be subjected to the payment
of Stewart's debts, Frederick S. Stewart, Helen W. McConnell,
and Adeline M. Johnson, who are alleged to be his only heirs
and the devisees in his unprobated will, should be parties to
the bill. The mere allowance of the debt of Walker by the
Probate Court is not conclusive evidence against them in a
suit to reach the real estate of their ancestor and devisor.
The State where the lands sought to be reached are situate
has, by statute, enabled her courts to entertain jurisdiction
of necessary parties not within reach of process, and greatly
modified the rules of practice and pleading. It is possible
that this bill, or some part of it, might, by making additional
parties, be sustained in one of her courts. But we are satis-

THOMIPSON V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

fled that the effort to prosecute it in the Circuit Court of the
United States, with the misjoinder of some parties and the nonjoinder of others, - with the connection of matters totally distinct in the right asserted and the relief sought, - and with
the principal party complainant entitled to no relief there, is
attended with insuperable difficulties, and that the bill was
properly dismissed.
.Decree affrmed.

THOMPSON V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
1. The payment of the annual premium upon a policy of life insurance is a condition subsequent, the non-performance of which may or may not, according to circumstances, work a forfeiture of the policy.
2. Where the policy provides that it shall be forfeited upon the failure of the
assured to pay the annual premium ad diem, or to pay at maturity his
promissory note therefor, the acceptance by the company of the note,
although a waiver of such payment of the premium, brings into operation
so much of the condition as relates to the note.
8. The omission of the company to give notice, according to its usage, of the
day upon which the note will be due is not an excuse for non-payment.
Insurance Company v. Egqleston (96 U. S. 572) distinguished.
4. A parol agreement entered into at the time of giving and accepting such note
cannot be set up to contradict the terms of the note and policy.
5. The failure to pay or tender the amount due on the note held in this case to
be fatal to a recovery on the policy.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
This was an action on a policy of insurance for $5,000, issued
by the Knickerbocker Life Insurance Company, the defendant
in error, on the life of John Y. Thompson, for the benefit of
his wife, Ruth E. Thompson, the plaintiff in error. The policy bore date Jan. 24, 1870, and was to continue during his
life, in consideration of an annual premium of $410.20, payable on or before the twenty-fourth day of January in every
year. He died Nov. 3, 1874. The complaint was in the
usual form, setting forth the contract contained in the policy, his death, and the performance of the conditions of the
policy by him and the plaintiff. The company pleaded the
ERROR

