COLLINS V. RILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

COLLINS V. RILEY.
1. Land in Virginia, whereof the owner died seised in 1823, descended to his
married daughter. In January, 1868, she and A., her husband, conveyed it
in fee, and shortly thereafter died, he predeceasing her. In that year and
after her death, B., their grantee, brought ejectment. The jury returned a
special verdict, setting forth substantially the above facts and finding that
the right of A. was, at the date of the conveyance to B., barred by the
Statute of Limitations. Ield, in view of the provisions of the code of that
State (i fra, pp. 324, 325, 326), that the facts so found entitle B. to recover,
inasmuch as it does not appear therefrom that her title or right of entry,
which passed by the conveyance, was barred at the date thereof, or at the
commencement of the suit.
2. A verdict for the plaintiff, if it declares that the land in dispute "was claimed
by the defendants," is in substantial compliance with the requirements of
the code.

ERRoR to the District Court of the United States for the
District of West Virginia.
Riley claiming to be the owner in fee-simple of a large body
of land, containing 3,000 acres, consisting of several tracts in
the county of Ritchie, State of West Virginia, brought this
action, on the 28th of March, 1868, to recover the same from
the plaintiffs in error, who, it is alleged, unlawfully withheld
from him the possession thereof. The plea, following the requirements of the local law, was, " not guilty of unlawfully
withholding the premises claimed by the plaintiff in his declaration." A trial resulted in a verdict for the defendants, which
was, on motion, set aside. Upon a second trial the jury found
for him, the verdict being in these words: "We, the jury,
find for the plaintiff the land described in the declaration
[here follows a description of the boundary of the entire tract
of 3,000 acres], except as to two undivided thirds of [here
follows a description of separate tracts, aggregating 1,834 acres,
and claimed by the respective defendants]. And as to the
two-thirds of the lands hereinbefore described and excepted,
we find for the said defendants ; and as to the remaining onethird of the lands hereinbefore excepted, and claimed by the
said defendants, we find the following facts : That Frederick
day of
, 1823, possessed in
Swetzer died on the
fee of lot No. 4 and the lower half of No. 5, as hereinbefore

Oct. 1881.]

COLLINS V. RILEY.

found for the plaintiff, leaving three heirs-at-law who inherited
said property, one of whom, Polly, had, prior to his death,
intermarried with Abraham Wagoner ; and that subsequently
day of January, 1868, the
to his death, to wit, on the
said Abraham Wagoner and Polly his wife conveyed to the
plaintiff in this cause all right and title in said lands ; and
that before the commencement of this suit Abraham Wagoner
day of February, 1868, and the said Polly
died, on the
day of March, 1868;
Wagoner died afterwards, on the
and we further find that, at the date of the deed executed by
the said Abraham and Polly Wagoner to the plaintiff in this
cause, the said Abraham Wagoner's right to recover against
the said defendants was barred by the Statute of Limitations.
Upon this state of facts as to the interest of Polly Wagoner,
if the law be for the plaintiff, then we find for the plaintiff
in fee the remaining one-third of the several tracts of land
claimed as aforesaid by the defendants, and of which twothirds have been found for them; if the law be for the defendants, then we find for the said defendants the one undivided
third part of the said land conveyed by the said Abraham
Wagoner and wife, of which we have herein found two undivided third parts for the defendants."
Riley moved the court to enter judgment in his behalf upon
the special verdict. The defendants moved to arrest judgment
for him, and, " for various reasons appearing upon the face of
the record," to enter judgment in their favor. The motion of
the plaintiff was granted and that of the defendants denied,
whereupon they sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Robert S. Blair and Mr. Edwin Maxwell for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Gideon Draper Camden, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
On behalf of Riley it is contended that the verdict is a

general finding in his favor as to the undivided one-third of the
several tracts claimed by the defendants respectively, and
should be followed by a judgment for him, unless the facts,
specially stated, preclude his recovery. In that view we are

COLLINS V. RILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

unable to concur. The finding is, in form, a special verdict as
to the undivided one-third of the lands in controversy, and
was so treated, in the court below, by both parties. It has
all the essential requisites of a special verdict, which is one
wherein the jury "state the naked facts, as they find them to
be proved, and pray the advice of the court thereon ; concluding conditionally, that if upon the whole matter the court
should be of opinion that the plaintiff had a cause of action,
they then find for the plaintiff; if otherwise, then for the
defendant." 3 Bl. Com., p. 377. The inquiry, therefore, is
not whether the facts stated prevent the court from entering a
judgment in favor of Riley, in pursuance of a general finding
for him, but whether the facts stated-" this state of facts as
to the interest of Polly Wagoner " - affirmatively establish
his right to any judgment against the present defendants for
the recovery of that interest.
The main proposition advanced by the plaintiffs in error
is that even if Riley, as between himself and his grantors,
acquired that interest by an effectual conveyance, this action
was barred by the Statute of Limitations.
The statute, which, it is conceded, governs this case provides, That no person shall make an entry on, or bring an action
to recover, any land, but within fifteen years next after the
time at which the right to make such entry, or to bring such
action, shall have first accrued to himself, or to some person
through whom he claims. Va. Code, 1860, tit. 45, c. 149,
sect. 1.
That if, at the time the right shall have first accrued, such
person was an infant, married woman, or insane, then such
person, or the person claiming through him, may, notwithstanding the period of fifteen years shall have expired, make an
entry on, or bring an action to recover, such land, within ten
years next after the time at which the person to whom such
right shall have first accrued shall have ceased to be under
such disability as existed when the same so accrued, or shall
have died, whichever shall first have happened. Id., sect. 3.
A subsequent section makes the foregoing limitations of the
right of entry on, or action for, land subject to these provisos:

Oct. 1881.]

COLLINS V. RILEY.

that no such entry shall be made or action brought, by any
person who, at the time at which his right to make or bring
the same shall have first accrued, shall be under any such disability, or by any person claiming through him, but within
thirty years next after the time at which such right shall have
first accrued, although the person, under disability at such
time, may have remained under the same during the whole of
such thirty years, or although the term of ten years from the
period at which he shall have ceased to be under any such disability, or have died, shall not have expired. And, further,
when any person shall be under any such disability at the
time at which his right to make an entry or bring an action
shall have first accrued, and shall depart this life without
having ceased to be under any such disability, no time to
make an entry, or to bring an action, beyond the fifteen years
next after the right of such person shall have first accrued,
or the ten years next after the period of his death, shall
be allowed by reason of any disability of any other person.
Sect. 4.
Recurring to the facts stated in the special verdict, it will
be observed that Polly Wagoner was under the disability of
coverture at the time she inherited the lands in controversy.
The interest thus inherited nevertheless passed to Riley by the
conveyance of January, 1868, unless her rights had been previously lost through adverse possession or hostile claim by
others. But whether there was, prior to that conveyance, any
such adverse possessior or hostile claim, even as against the
husband, is not distinctly found. The special verdict, it is
true, states that the husband's right to recover against the defendants was barred by the Statute of Limitations. That, we
think, is a conclusion of law, rather than a statement of facts
upon which it rests. If, however, we give that finding the
fullest effect claimed for it,- viz. that the defendants had held
continuous adverse possession of, or had asserted a hostile
claim to, the lands, long enough to bar an action upon the part
of the husband, - we are still not informed by the special verdict as to the time such adverse possession, in fact, commenced,
or when such hostile claim was, in fact, first asserted by defendants. It may have existed for only fifteen years prior to

COLLINS V. RILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

the conveyance by Wagoner and wife to Riley. If it continued for that length of time, the husband's right to the possession of the lands would, under the statute, have been lost.
But if adverse possession, or an adverse claim by defendants,
for that length of time, be conceded, - and there is no reason
why it should be presumed to have continued for a longer
period, - it would not follow that the wife's right of entry
was barred. The statute expressly declares that a woman
shall not be barred of her right of entry into land, even by a
judgment in her husband's lifetime, by default or collusion;
and, further, that " no conveyance, or other act suffered or
done by the husband only, of any land which is the inheritance
of the wife, shall be or make any discontinuance thereof, or be
prejudicial to the wife or her heirs, or to any one having right
or title to the same by her death, but they may respectively
enter into such land, according to their right and title therein,
as if no such act had been done." Va. Code, 1860, c. 133,
sect. 2, p. 608.
If the special verdict bad stated that defendants, and those
under whom they claim, had adversely held and claimed the
land for a period sufficiently long, anterior to January, .1868,
to show that the wife, notwithstanding the disability of coverture, had been barred of her right of action, then the law
would be with the defendants. But no such facts are found.
The verdict is, as we have seen, wholly silent as to when their
adverse possession or claim commenced ; and the court is asked
to adjudge, as matter of law, that she was barred, simply
because, at the date of the conveyance to Riley, her husband's
right to recover was cut off by limitation. By the express
words of the statute she had ten years after the disability of
coverture was removed in which to assert her right of entry,
provided thirty years from the date when her right first
accrued had not expired. Notwithstanding, therefore, her
husband's right of possession may have been barred when the
deed to Riley was made, that conveyance, in the absence of
evidence that she was barred, must be held to have passed
whatever interest she then had in the lands.
Further, if it be conceded, as perhaps it must be, that the
husband and wife-the former being barred-could not

Oct. 1881.]

COLLINS V. RILEY.

have brought a joint action to recover the lands, and that
during the life of the husband Riley could not have asserted
his rights, as against the defendants, it would not follow that
he got nothing by the conveyance. TIe certainly did acquire
the wife's interest ; and, when her disability was removed, he
could enter upon the land, or bring an action for its recovery,
precisely as she could have done, upon the death of the husband, had she not joined in the conveyance. This is clear
from a comparison of the Limitation Act of Virginia, passed
Feb. 25, 1819, with the provision of the code of 1860. The
former, while prescribing twenty years as the time within
which an action for the recovery of land must be brought,
gave to infants, feme coverts, and others under disability, and
to their heirs, ten years after such disability was removed, in
which to sue, notwithstanding twenty years may have passed
after the right to sue accrued. Va. Rev. Code, 1819, vol. i.
p. 488. On the other hand, the code of 1860, as we have seen,
saved the rights of those who claimed through the person to
whoni the right of entry or action accrued. Riley, undoubtedly, claimed through the wife, and could sue by virtue of his
ownership of her interest, because she could have sued, had no
conveyance been made.
But it is argued that the special verdict must contain all the
facts from which the law is to arise; that whatever is not
found therein is, for the purposes of a decision, to be considered
as not existing ; that it must present, in substance, the whole
matter upon which the court is asked to determine the legal
rights of the parties, and cannot, therefore, be aided by intendment or by extrinsic facts, although such facts may appear
elsewhere in the record. It is not necessary, in the view we
take of this case, to controvert any of these propositions.
They undoubtedly embody a correct statement, as far as it
goes, of the law in reference to special verdicts. But we do
not perceive that their application in this case would lead to
any result different from the one already indicated. We have
taken the special verdict as presenting the whole case as to
Polly Wagoner's interest in the lands. It shows that Swetzer,
under whom both sides claim, was, at his death, the owner of
the land ; that upon his death an undivided third thereof was

328.

COLLINS V. RILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

inherited by his daughter Polly; and that her interest was
conveyed, in 1868, to Riley, by the joint deed of herself and
husband. No fact is stated justifying the conclusion that her
interest in the land had been lost, prior to the conveyance,
either by adverse possession or by adverse claim. If such fact
existed it was the duty of the defendants, who relied upon limitation, to have established it by proof, and caused it to be
stated in the special verdict. The record contains no bill of
exceptions, and were we at liberty to look beyond the special
verdict, we should find in the record no evidence wbatever
upon that point. We cannot presume that any such evidence
was offered. It was not for Riley to prove that Mrs. Wagoner's
right had not been lost by adverse possession or adverse claim
by others. That was matter of defence. Counsel for the
plaintiffs in error have proceeded, in their argument, upon the
assumption that the special verdict sets forth facts showing
that her right was barred, at the time of the conveyance to
Riley, or at the commencement of the action. But evidently
it shows nothing more than that the husband was barred, as to
his right of possession.
Another proposition advanced by counsel for plaintiffs in
error deserves notice. It is, that the special verdict does not
show that they were, at the institution of the suit, in possession of, or claimed title to, the interest of Polly Wagoner in
the lands, in dispute.
By the code of Virginia of 1860 it is declared that " if the
jury be of opinion [in actions of ejectment] for the plaintiffs,
or any of them, the verdict shall be for the plaintiffs, or such
of them as appear to have right to the possession of the
premises, or any part thereof, and against such of the defendants as were in possession thereof, or claimed title thereto, at
the commencement of the action." p. 612. There was a similar provision in the code of 1849, p. 561. The verdict in this
case is in substantial conformity with this statutory requirement. The issue to be tried was whether the defendants unlawfully withheld from the plaintiff the premises described in
the declaration. The verdict finds for the defendants as to the
undivided two-thirds of the land in dispute. If that be not, in
legal effect, a finding that defendants were in possession of the

Oct. 1881.]

WOOD V. RAILROAD CO.

entire land, there is a finding that defendants, respectively,
claimed title to the several tracts in controversy. The verdict
describes by metes and bounds each tract embraced in the suit,
giving the name of each defendant by whom it is claimed, and
finding for defendants as to two-thirds, undivided, of the respective tracts. It then proceeds to find as "to the remaining
one-third of the lands hereinbefore excepted, and claimed by
said defendants." Although the verdict does not state, in
terms, that the defendants were in possession, it does state that
they claimed the lands in dispute. And that seems to be sufficient under the local law. In reference to the case of Southgate v. Walker (2 W. Va. 427), it is sufficient to say that it
related to an action of ejectment commenced in 1848, before
the adoption of the above-recited provision. We are referred
to no decision of the State court in conflict with the construction we have given to that provision.
We deem it unnecessary to comment upon any other objections urged against the special verdict. There is no error
in the judgment, and it is
Affirmed.

WooD v.

RAILROAD COMPANY.

1. The grant of ten odd-numbered sections of land per mile to the Burlington
and Missouri River Railroad Company by the act of July 2, 1864, c. 216
(13 Stat. 356), was in prousenti, and although not expressly requiring them to
be taken within any specific lateral limit, necessarily implied that they
should consist of those nearest to the line of road upon which the grant
could, consistently with its exceptions and reservations, take effect.
2. Where the odd-numbered sections within the limit of twenty miles from the
line were, conformably to the act, withdrawn, - Held, that so much of the
land thereby embraced as was not sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of,
or to which, a pre-emption or a homestead claim had not attached, was
subject to the grant, and that no right in conflict therewith could be thereafter acquired.
3. United States v. Burlington 4- M1issouri River Railroad Co. (98 U. S. 834) commented on.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Nebraska.

