MURPHY V. UNITED STATES.

MURPHY V. UNITED

[Sup. Ct.

STATES.

A claim against the United States for damages which a contractor alleged he
had sustained was, by the appropriate department, adjusted upon a basis to
which lie agreed. Ie accepted the sum allowed, and gave a receipt therefor

in full.
claim.

fIeld, that the acceptance of the sum is a bar to his suit for the same

from the Court of Claims.
Murphy entered into a written contract with the United
States for excavating a portion of the pit for a dry dock, and
was paid at the contract price for all the work which be
performed.
He subsequently presented to the Navy Department a claim
for damages suffered by reason of certain alleged violations of
the contract, and for extra work. The department adopted a
basis of adjustment, to which he agreed; and there was paid
to him a certain sum, which, upon full information as to the
principles upon which it was awarded, he accepted, and gave a
receipt in full.
He some time thereafter brought suit in the court below for
the same claim, adding, however, a further item, of which there
was no proof.
The court dismissed the petition, and he appealed.
APPEAL

Mr. James W. Denver and Hr. Luther Hf. Pike for the
appellant.
The Solicitor -General and Mr. John S. Blair for the United
States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We are clearly of the opinion that the acceptance by the
claimant, without objection, of the amount allowed by the Secretary of the Navy, in his adjustment of the account presented
to him, was equivalent to a final settlement and compromise
of all the items of the present claim included in that account.
There is nothing in the findings of the court below to warrant
a judgment in favor of the claimant upon the only item

Oct. 1881.]

LAMAR V. MICOU.

included in the petition in this case which was not mentioned
specifically in the account presented to the Secretary of the
Navy and passed on by him in the adjustment he made.
Judgment affirmed.

LAMAR V. MICOU.
A defendant, who made no defence except to reduce the amount of the recovery,
cannot appeal from a decree against him for less than $5,000.

MoTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York.
Mr. S. P. Nash in support of the motion.
Mr. Edward N. Dickerson and Mr. Charles J. Beaman, Jr.,
eontra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal by the defendant below from a decree
against him for less than $5,000. There is no claim of set-off
or counter-claim, except to reduce the amount of the recovery.
In no event can he get any money decree in his favor. All
he seeks to do is to defeat the claim of the appellee. Consequently the amount in controversy, so far as this appeal is
concerned, is fixed by the decree. Thompson v. Butler, 95 U. S.
694; Sampson v. Welsh, 24 How. 207. In effect he insists
that, under the rule of liability established against him in the
court below, the decree should have been for more than $5,000,
and that for this reason he is entitled to an appeal, so that he
may show he is not liable at all. This, we think it clear, is
not the law.
The case is not changed by the fact that if, under an appeal
which is pending in another suit, it shall be found the appellant was credited in this suit with an amount which properly
'belonged to that, the decree in that suit will be reduced, while
the one in this cannot be correspondingly increased. The appellee is satisfied with this decree, and has not appealed. The
appellant cannot complain if it turns out in the end that, but
VOL. XIV.

30

