Oct. 1881.]

HYDE V. RUBLE.

heirs of Minor Kenner, deceased, must be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill, so far as it
concerns the appellant.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS took no part irnthe decision of

this case.

HYDE v. RUBLE.
1. Under the second section of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3,
p. 470), a suit cannot be removed from a State court to the Circuit Court,
unless either all the parties on one side of the controversy are citizens of
different States from those on the other side, or there is in such suit a
separable controversy, wholly between some of the parties who are citizens
of different States, which can be fully determined as between them.
2. That act repealed the second clause of sect. 639 of the Revised Statutes.

ERnor to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Angus Cameron for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Gordon E. Cole, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit begun by Ruble and Green, on the 6th of
March, 1880, in a State court of Minnesota, upon an alleged
contract of bailment made by the defendants as partners. The
amount involved was a little more than $500. The plaintiffs
were citizens of Minnesota.
Only one defendant, Rowell,
The business of the alleged
was a citizen of that State.
partnership was carried on there. He filed a separate answer
to the complaint, in which he denied the existence of any
partnership between himself and the other defendants, and
set up a full performance of the contract on his part. The
other defendants joined in a separate answer for themselves,
in which they denied any partnership with him, and any con-

HYDE v. RUBLE.

[sup. Ct.

tract between themselves and the plaintiffs. They also denied
generally all the allegations of the complaint.
On the 12th of April, 1880, after these answers were in, all
the defendants, including Rowell, filed in the State court a
petition for the emoval of the suit to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Minnesota, on the ground of
the citizenship of the parties. At the next term of the Circuit
Court the cause was remanded to the State court. This order
was entered in the Circuit Court July 31, 1880, and a copy
thereof filed in the State court on the 11th of August. On the
12th of January, 1881, at a term of the State court which began
on the 10th of that month, another petition was filed, by all the
defendants who were not citizens of Minnesota, for a removal
of the suit, as to themselves, on the ground that there could be
a final determination of the controversy, so far as it concerned
them, without the presence of Rowell as a party. It is not
contended that this petition was filed in time to effect a removal under the second clause of the second section of the act
of March 3, 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470) ; but the
State court, under the second clause of sect. 639 of the Revised
Statutes, ordered a removal, so far as concerned the petitioning
defendants, leaving the suit to proceed in that court as to
Rowell. When the case was docketed in the Circuit Court
under this second removal it was again remanded. To reverse
these several orders of the Circuit Court this writ of error has
been brought by the defendants.
This action is clearly one sounding in contract and not in
tort. According to the allegations of the complaint the plaintiffs stored, at an agreed rate, their wheat with the defendants,
who undertook to buy it and pay for it at the market price
yhenever the plaintiffs wanted to sell. The action is brought
to recover what is alleged to be due on the price according
to the terms of this contract. All the allegations of wrongful
conversion are immaterial, and in no way change the character
of the suit.
The suit, then, as it stands on the complaint, is in respect to
a controvesy between the parties as to the liability of the defendants on a single contract. One ground of defence is, that
there was no partnership between the defendants, and that

Oct. 18S1.]

HYDE V. RUBLE.

Rowell alone was bound by the contract that was made; and
another, that the contract, by whomsoever made, had been
fully performed. Clearly, then, under our rulings in Removal
Cases (100 U. S. 457) and Blake v. McKim (103 id. 336) the
case was not removable under the first clause of the second
section of the act of 1875, because all the parties on one side
of the controversy were not citizens of different States from
those on the other.
Neither do we think it was removable under the second
clause of the same section, on the ground that there was in the
suit a separate controversy wholly between citizens of different States. To entitle a party to a removal under this clause
there must exist in the suit a separate and distinct cause of
action in respect to which all the necessary parties on one side
are citizens of different States from those on the other. Thus,
in Barney v. Latham (103 id. 205), two separate and distinct
controversies were directly involved: one as to the lands held
by the Winona & St. Peter Land Company, in respect to which
the land company was the only necessary party on one side
and the plaintiff on the other; and the second as to the moneys
collected from the sales of lands before the land company was
formed, and as to which only the natural persons named as defendants were the necessary party on one side and the plaintiffs
on the other. One was a controversy about the land and the
other about the money. Separate suits, each distinct in itself,
might have been properly brought on these two separate causes
of action, and complete relief afforded in each suit as to the particular controversy involved. In that about the land, the land
company would have been the only necessary defendant; and in
that about the money, the natural persons need only have been
brought in. In that about the land there could not have been a
removal, because the parties on both sides would have been
citizens of the same State; while in that about the money
there could have been, as the plaintiffs would all be citizens
of one State, while the defendants would all be citizens of
another. When two such causes of action are found tinited
in one suit, we held in the case last cited there could be a
removal of the whole suit on the petition of one or more
of the plaintiffs or defendants interested in the controversy,

BRONSON V. SCHULTEN.

[Sup. Ct.

which, if it had been sued on alone, would be removable.
But that, we think, does not meet the requirements of this
case. This suit presents but a single cause of action, that is
to say, a single controversy. The issues made by the pleadings do not create separate controversies, but only show the
questions which are in dispute between the parties as to their
one controversy.
The suit is, therefore, governed by the principles applied in
Removal Cases and Blake v. MeKim, rather than those in Barney v. Latham, and was properly remanded.
The second clause of sect. 639 of the Revised Statutes was,
as we think, repealed by the act of 1875, and as the second
petition for removal was not filed in time under the act of
1875, it was of no avail. The whole case depends on the
first petition.
The order to remand is
Affirmed.

BRO:NSO

v. SCHULTEN.

1. During the term when it is rendered or entered of record, a judgment or an
order, however conclusive in its character, is under the control of the court
pronouncing it, and may then be set aside, vacated, or modified.
2. After that term, unless steps be taken during its continuance, by motion or
otherwise, errors in a final judgment can only be corrected by an appellate
court.
3. To this rule there is an exception. The writ of error coram vobis brought
before the court of original jurisdiction certain mistakes of fact not put in
issue or passed upon, such as that a party died before judgment, or was a
married woman, or was an infant and no guardian appeared or was appointed, or that there was error in the process through the default of the
clerk. It did not lie, however, to correct errors in the judgment itself.
The relief thereby sought is, in modern practice, attained by motion, supported, when necessary, by affidavits.
4. Neither the practice of the State courts in exercising a control over their own
judgments and administering equitable relief in a summary way, nor the
statutes of the States, can determine the action of the courts of the United
States on this subject.
5. In this case the carelessness and laches of the plaintiffs preclude, under any
rule, the setting aside of the judgment after the term at which it was
rendered.

