Oct. 1881.]

UNITED STATES v. BABBITT.

UNITED STATES

v.

BABBITT.

1. Quccre, In computing the longevity pay to which an officer of the army is entitled under sect. 7 of the act of June 18, 1878, c. 263 (20 Stat. 145), should
the time during which he was a cadet at West Point be included in his

period of service.
2. The Court of Claims decided that question adversely to the plaintiff. As the
case in which it arose was one of a class, and a judgment against him
coul 1 not, by reason of the amount in controversy, be reviewed, a proforna
judgment was, by consent of the Attorney-General, rendered against the
United States on a claim for such pay, in which that time was embraced.
The United States appealed. Held, that the consent so given was a waiver
of any error in including that time as a basis of computation.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

Lawrence S. Babbitt reported at the Military Academy at
West Point as a candidate for admission, June 11, 1857, and was
admitted as a conditional cadet on the first day of the following
month. He received his warrant as a cadet, Feb. 6, 1858. He
was graduated from that institution July 1, 1861, and commissioned a second lieutenant of artillery June 24 of that year. He
has served continuously in the army ever since. The accounting officers, in computing his longevity pay, held that his period
of service commenced from the date of his commission as such
second lieutenant, while he claimed that he should be credited
also with the time he remained at the academy. He brought
suit against the United States to recover the difference in his
pay between the sum which they allowed and that to which
he would have been entitled had they adopted his manner of
stating the account.
The seventh section of the act of June 18, 1878, c. 263
(20 Stat. 145), is as follows: " That on and after the passage
of this act, all officers of the army of the United States who
have served as officers in the volunteer forces during the war
of the rebellion, or as enlisted men in the armies of the United
States, regular or volunteer, shall be, and are hereby, credited
with the full time they may have served as such officers and
as such enlisted men, in computing their service for longevity
pay and retirement."
The Court of Claims announced a decision adverse to the
claimant; but for the reasons stated in the opinion of this

UNITED

STATES V. BABBITT.

[Sup. Ct.

court judgment was rendered in his favor. The United States
appealed, and assign for error that the court erred in computing the plaintiff's service, and should have excluded therefrom the time he was a cadet at West Point.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. William Penn Clarke for the appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion, of the
court.
The question presented to the court below on the trial of this
case was, whether in the computation of longevity pay for
an officer of the army of the United States, under the provisions of sect. 7 of the act of June 18, 1878, c. 263 (20 Stat.
145), his period of service as a cadet at West Point was to be
taken into account. The court decided it was not, and an
elaborate opinion to that effect was filed; but the record
shows that, after the decision was announced, a pro forma judgment was rendered, with the consent of the Attorney-General,
in favor of the claimant. This is stated in the judgment to
have been done because the case was one of a class, and the
claimant, if judgment should be given against him, could not
appeal. In Pacific Railroad v. Ketchum (101 U. S. 289), we
decided that when a decree was rendered by consent, no errors
would be considered here on an appeal which were in law
waived by such a consent. In our opinion, this case comes within
that rule. The consent to the judgment below was in law a
waiver of the error now complained of. For this reason the
judgment below must be affirmed; and it is
So ordered.

