Oct. 1881.]

SMELTING

Co. v.

KEMP.

is made the duty of the adverse claimant, within thirty days
after filing his claim, to commence proceedings in a court of
competent jurisdiction to determine the question of the right
of possession, and to prosecute the same with reasonable diligence to final judgment; and a failure to do so is to be deemed
a waiver of his adverse claim. After judgment has been rendered in such proceedings, the party entitled to the possession
of the claim, or any portion of it, may file a certified copy of
the judgment-roll with the register of the land-office, together
with a certificate of the Surveyor-General that the requisite
amount of labor has been expended or improvements made
thereon, and the description required in other cases; and must
pay to the receiver five dollars an acre for his claim, together
with the proper fees; and then the whole proceedings and the
judgment-roll are to be certified by the register to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, and a patent thereupon
issued for the claim, or such portion thereof as the applicant,
by the decision of the court, shall appear to be entitled to.
It will thus be seen that if an adverse claim is made to the
mining ground for which a patent is sought, its validity must
be determined by a local court, unless it be waived, before a
patent can be issued. There would seem, therefore, to be
more cogent reasons, in cases where a patent for such ground
is relied upon, to maintain the doctrine which we have declared,
that it cannot be assailed in a collateral proceeding, than in
the case of a patent for agricultural land.
But it is unnecessary to pursue the subject further. The
judgment of the court below must be reversed and the cause
remanded for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.
Mn. JUSTICE MILLER and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

NOTE. - Smelting Company v. Ray, error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado, was argued at the same time as the preceding case, and by the same counsel for the plaintiff in error, and by 11r.
Tmmas 31. Patterson for the defendants in error.
MR. JUsTicli, FIELD remarked that, as it presented the same questions there
determined, the judgment of the court below must be reversed and the cause
remanded for a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER and MR. JUSTIcE HARLAx dissented.
42
VOL. XIV.

