THE " WOODLAND."

[Sup. Ct.

THE " WOODLAND."
Drafts on the owner of a vessel do not bind her, unless the debt for which they
were given by her master is a lien on her, although they express on their
face that they are "recoverable against the vessel, freight, and cargo."

from the Circuit Court of the United States for
theSouthern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Mr. James Ridgway and Mr. William R. Beebe for the appellants.
Mr. Henry J. Scudder, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit in admiralty to recover of the bark " Woodland" and her freight the amount of two drafts drawn by
the master of the vessel at St. Thomas, W. I., on her owners,
one for the payment of $2,000, and the other for the payment
of $2,606.40, in New York, to the order of J. Niles & Co.,
merchants in St. Thomas, ten days after sight. The facts
found by the Circuit Court, which, in our opinion, are conclusive of the case, are as follows : The "Woodland" was a British bark owned by the claimants,
residents of St. John, New Brunswick. In November, 1870,
while on a voyage from Montevideo to New York with a cargo,
being in distress, she put into the Danish port of St. Thomas
for repairs, which were necessary before she could safely proceed on her voyage. J. Niles, who carried on business under
the name of J. Niles & Co., attended to the affairs of the vessel at St. Thomas, landed the cargo, and sold a portion of it,
on which he received an amount sufficient to reimburse all
the moneys expended; but he charged for commissions and
insurance $6,875. As to the insurance, none was actually
effected, and the commissions were on an excessive valuation.
The master approved all the bills, and drew drafts on his
owners for a balance of $6,106.24, which expressed on their
face that they were "recoverable against the vessel, freight,

Oct. 1881.]

THE "WOODLAND."

and cargo." Two of these drafts the libellants discounted,
and this suit was brought for their recovery. The third, for
$1,500, was given by Niles to the master upon a corrupt
understanding that it was to be his share. The two drafts
have not been accepted or paid, and the libellants are the
owners thereof, having advanced money upon them in good
faith and without any knowledge of the fraudulent acts of
Niles and the master.
The drafts did not themselves create a lien on the vessel.
Unless the debt for which they were given bound the vessel,
the drafts, notwithstanding what is expressed on their face,
did not. If the owners owed Niles nothing under his contract
with the master for the repairs and supplies which had been
furnished, he had no lien on the vessel, -which lie or any one
else could enforce in admiralty. For the purposes of this
suit the libellants occupy no better position than 1Niles; and
if he could not recover, they cannot. Having advanced their
money in good faith, they may not be affected, so far as their
remedies against the parties to the drafts are concerned, by
the fraudulent character of the transactions between Niles
and the master; but if the vessel owed Niles nothing, it does
not owe them.
Now, we think it clear that if Niles were here as appellant instead of these libellants, he would not be entitled to the reversal
of this decree upon the findings as they stand. The findings sent
here under the act of 1875 furnish the only evidence of the
facts which we can consider. It is incumbent on the libellants
to prove a debt from the vessel to Niles, and its amount.
Until this proof is made they cannot recover. If the settlement between the master and Niles had not been impeached,
that would have been enough, for the master is the agent of
the owner for all such purposes. But it has been impeached.
The court has expressly found that, although insurance was
charged for and allowed, none was ever effected, and that the
commissions were calculated on an excessive valuation. It
has also found that there was a corrupt understanding between
the master and Niles, under which the master was given one
of the drafts which he drew on his owners, as " his share."
Under these circumstances it is clear that the approval of the

TiE " WOODLAND."

[Sup. Ct.

accounts by the master amounts to nothing as evidence of what
was actually due, and without that there is nothing to show
that Niles is entitled to anything. His advances were all paid
by sales of the damaged cargo, and while there was $6,875
allowed him for commissions and insurance, the balance due
to him on the accounts as stated was only $6,106.24. Thus
it appears that in addition to his expenditures he must have
received $768.76 on account of commissions. In the absence
of anything to show what his services were-reasonably worth,
we cannot say from the findings that anything is honestly due
Niles on his accounts.
It is insisted, however, that there was no evidence in the
case to establish the corrupt understanding between Niles and
the master, because a deposition bearing on that subject was
ruled out in the Circuit Court.
It is true such a deposition was excluded, but without it
there is abundant evidence in the testimony of Niles tending
at least to support the finding. His account as stated by himself can be properly abstracted as follows: ...............
Bill of supplies .......
Labor, loading and unloading cargo, wharfage, &c.
........
Paid captain for himself and crew ..
...........
Sundry bills for repairs ...
.............

Total expenditures .....

Receipts from sale of damaged cargo

27
38
14
93

..
.

$216
1,832
768
2,582

..

5,399 72
7,035 50

.......

Receipts over actual expenditures ...........
...
Coin's charged on bills of supplies .....
.....
labor, &c.
,,
payments to master

.$1,635
$10 81

78

91 63
38 41

129 15
bills for repairs .....
352 78
.
sale of cargo .......
21 per cent on receiving, storing, and ship,,
00
.3,125
.........
ping cargo ...
. 2,500 00
Storage, 2 per cent on valuation of cargo.
00
.1,250
Insurance, 1 per cent on valuation .......
65
152
.......
Paid 21 per cent discount on drafts
Corn's for indorsing and negotiating

.

.

..

91 59

7,742 02
Balance ......

..............

.$6,106

24

THE "S. S. OSBORNE."

Oct. 1881.]

The same witness also testified that the drafts were all
drawn in the same form by the master on the owners to the
order of Niles & Co., payable in New York at ten days' sight,
and that the draft for $1,500 was indorsed by Niles & Co.
and delivered to the master. The cargo consisted of bides,
sheep-skins, kip-skins, horse and cow hair, and shin-bones, and
the vessel was detained in St. Thomas about two months.
Without considering any of the other important and interesting questions which have been urged on our attention in
the argument, we affirm the decree.
Decree affirmed.

THE "S. S. OSBORNE."
In order to justify this court in returning a cause in admiralty to the Circuit
Court, for the finding of facts which is required by the act of Feb. 16, 1875,
c. 77 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 315), it must appear that the omission to make such
finding is attributable to the court, and not to the parties.

MOTION for a writ of certiorarito the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Albert

a.

Riddle in support of the motion.

Mn. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from a decree in admiralty on the instance
side of the court. There is nowhere in the record a statement
of facts and conclusions of law such as is required by the act
of Feb. 16, 1875, c. 77, 18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 315. The case was
heard on its merits in the Circuit Court at the April Term,
1878, and decided September 24. On the 19th of September
a bill of exceptions was signed and filed to put on record the
objections of the present appellants to the rulings of the court
on their motion to dismiss the appeal from the District to the
Circuit Court. When the case was decided on its merits a
reference was made to a commissioner to ascertain and report

