680

CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY

CO.

v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

judgment must be reversed, with directions to enter judgment in behalf of plaintiff for the amount of the bonds, with
interest at the stipulated rate, from their maturity until paid
(Spencer v. Maxfield, 16 Wis. 185; Pruyn v. City of Milwaukee, supra), and also for the respective amounts of those
coupons only which fell due within six years preceding the
commencement of this action, with interest thereon at the
rate established by the law of the State; and it is
So ordered.
MR.

JUSTICE GRAY

did not sit in this case.

CHICAGO AND NORTHWESTERN

RAILWAY COMPANY v.

UNITED STATES.
1. A railroad company, in aid of which Congress granted land, entered, September, 1875, into a contract with the United States to transport for four years
the mails over its road at a price which conformed to the statute then in
force. It received from the Postmaster-General due notice of his orders,
reducing the rates of compensation, pursuant to the act of July 12, 1876,
c. 179 (19 Stat. 78), and the act of July 17, 1878, c. 259. 20 id. 140. The
company protested against the order, but performed the stipulated service.
Held, that it is entitled to recover the contract price therefor.
2. Those acts apply only to contracts thereafter made, or to such as did not
require the performance of the service for a specific period.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company owns and
operates lines of railroad, of which parts were constructed by
companies which severally received from the United States,
to aid in their construction, grants of public lands, to which
was attached this condition: " The United States mail shall
be transported over such roads, under the direction of the
Post-Office Department, at such price as Congress may by
law direct: Provided, that, until such price is fixed by law,
the Postmaster-General shall have the power to determine
the same." Act of May 15, 1856, c. 28 (11 Stat. 9); Act of
June 3, 1856, c. 42, id. 18.
In September, 1875, the company entered into three contracts in writing with the United States, acting by the Post-

Oct. 1881.]

CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY Co. v. UNITED STATES.

681

master-General, each for conveying the mail on a certain route
numbered and described therein, over a part of its line, for
four years from July 1, 1875, at a fixed price per annum,
being at the rate of a specified sum per mile. These contracts
are in the usual form prescribed by the department, and specify
the services to be performed, among other things requiring the
company to convey, free of charge, all mail-bags and post-office
blanks, and all accredited agents of the department free of
charge, and to collect from postmasters on the route quarterly
balances due from them to the government, and account for
the same; and stipulate for the payment of fines to be imposed
upon the company for certain defaulls. The ninth clause of
each is as follows: " That the Postmaster-General may discontinue or curtail the service, in whole or in part, whenever the
public interests, in his judgment, shall require such discontinuance or curtailment for any cause, he allowing, as a full indemnity to the contractor, one month's extra pay on the amount of
service dispensed with, and a pro rata compensation for the
amount of service retained and continued."
These contracts were made by the Postmaster-General under
the authority of the following sections of the Revised Statutes:"SECT. 3942. The Postmaster-General may enter into contracts
for carrying the mail, with railway companies, without advertising
for bids therefor.
" SECT. 3946. No contract for carrying the mail shall be made
for a longer term than four years, and no contract for carrying the
mail on the sea shall be made for a longer term than two years."

The prices agreed to be paid were in conformity to the provisions of sect. 1 of the act of March 3, 1873, c.231 (17 Stat.
558), being sect. 4002 of the Revised Statutes.
In the act of July 12, 1876, c. 179, making appropriations
for the service of the Post-Office Department, &c., Congress
inserted the following provisions, viz. :
"That the Postmaster-General be, and he is hereby, authorized
and directed to readjust the compensation to be paid from and
after the first day of July, 1876, for transportation of mails on railroad routes by reducing the compensation to all railroad companies

682

CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

for the transportation of mails ten per centum per annum from the
rates fixed and allowed by the first section of an act entitled 'An
Act making appropriations for the service of the Post-Office Department for the fiscal year ending June 80th, 1874, and for other purposes,' approved March 3d, 1873, for the transportation of mails on
the basis of the average weight."
" SECT. 13. That railroad companies whose railroad was constructed in whole or in part by a land grant made by Congress on
the condition that the mails should be transported over their road
at such prices as Congress should by law direct, shall receive only
eighty per centuin of the compensation authorized by this act."
19 Stat. 79, 82.
On Aug. 18, 1876, the Postmaster-General issued an order,
which was communicated to the company, reciting the foregoing provision relative to the ten-per-cent deduction, and stating
that the Assistant Attorney-General of the Post-Office Department had advised, with reference to railway service performed
under contract with the government, "that when the contract
has been made in due form of law with a railroad company
for the transportation of the mails for a term not yet expired,
such contract is not affected" by the provision.
On Oct. 20, 1876, the Postmaster-General issued another
circular, reciting that provision, and also sect. 13 of the act
of 1876, and informing the company that, as required by that
section, a reduction of twenty per cent would be made for
mail service performed after July 1, 1876, upon the routes over
the roads aided by land grants.
To this notice the company replied with a protest against
the proposed reduction, as in violation of its contract.
The act of June 17, 1878, c. 259 (20 Stat. 140), contains
this provision :"That the Postmaster-General be, and he is hereby, authorized
and directed to readjust the compensation to be paid from and
after the first day of July, eighteen hundred and seventy-eight, for
transportation of mails on railroad routes, by reducing the compensation to all railroad companies, for the transportation of mails, five
per centum per anum from the rates for the transportation of
mails, on the basis of the average weight, fixed and allowed by the
first section of an act entitled 'An Act maling appropriations for

Oct. 1881.]

CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY CO. V. UNITED STATES. 683

the service of the Post-Office Department for the fiscal year ending
June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and seventy-seven, and for other
purposes,' approved July twelfth, eighteen hundred and seventy)

six. ,

On July 29, 1878, the Post-Office Department notified the
company that there would be a reduction of five per cent from
its compensation, under this act, against which the company
promptly protested.
The company performed all the service required by its
contracts during the entire period covered by them; but deductions from the contract rates were made, in accordance with
the notices of the department, at each settlement, amounting
in the aggregate to $83,310.91, for which the company, on July
14, 1879, after the contracts had been completely performed
on its part, brought the present suit. The Court of Claims
rendered judgment in its favor for the sum of $876, being the
amount of the deductions for the service performed from July 1
to July 12, 1876, the latter being the date when the first act,
under which they were made, took effect.
From this judgment the company appealed.
Mr. John F. Farnsworth for the appellant.
The Solicitor- Ceneral for the United States.
Mn. JUSTIcE MATTHEWS, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The power of Congress to direct by law the price at which
the mail service here in question should be performed was
expressly reserved as a condition of the land grants, which
formed, in part, their motive and consideration. But when
Congress authorized the Postmaster-General to fix the price by
contract, within specified maximum rates, and for a period of
four years, it was an agreement on the part of the United
States that the stipulated compensation should not be withheld
during that period, which it could not refuse to perform without a breach of the public faith. The contract was an exercise
of the reserved power, with an added obligation not to exercise
it otherwise for the period agreed on, and we are unable to perceive any ground on which its validity can be denied. The

684

CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CL.

stipulations in the contract on the part of the railroad company transcend its necessary obligations, growing out of the
acceptance of the conditions of the land grant, and furnish a
sufficient and distinct consideration for the promise of the
government not to disturb the rates of the contract during the
period of its existence; for there are several stipulations collateral to the service to be rendered, which the government could
not have exacted as due by previous obligation and irrespective
of the assent of the company.
The power to establish the price includes the power also to
declare the period of its duration; and if it be said that any
contract which fixes both the price and its duration must be
construed as subject to the continuous control of the power
which made it, it must also be admitted that no change can
be made without the abrogation of the contract. The government, whatever power it may reserve over its own agreements,
cannot impose new contracts upon those with whom it deals.
It might by a repeal of the contract, expressly stipulated, restore the previous state, and claim the bare rights it had before;
but it cannot do more than that. It certainly cannot retain the
obligation of the contract as against the company, and at the
same time vary its own, unless it has reserved the right to do
so in the contract itself.
Some claim of this kind is put forward in the present case,
and the ninth clause in the contracts is referred to as containing such a reservation. Clearly this confers power upon
the Postmaster-General to discontinue or curtail the service,
in whole or in part, he allowing, as an indemnity to the contractor, a month's extra pay on the amount of service dispensed
with, and a pro rata compensation for that retained and continued. But this is not a power to reduce the compensation
for the full service performed, or to alter the terms of the
contract. It is true, that under this reservation the Postmaster-General would be authorized to discontinue the entire
service contemplated by the contract, and the practical effect of
that would be to terminate the contract itself, on making the
indemnity specified. But in that event, the contract being at
an end, the company would no longer be under any obligation
except that imposed by the original conditions accepted with

Oct. 1881.]

CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY CO. V. UNITED STATES.

685

the land grants, and the government could rightfully impose
upon it no others. There is, therefore, in the contract itself,
no power reserved to alter the amount of compensation, except
by a reduction of the required service. If the government
insists upon full performance of that, it can be only upon the
terms fixed by the contract.
It is argued, however, on the part of the government, that
the legal effect of what was done was to abrogate the old contracts and make new ones. It is claimed that the passage of
the acts of Congress of July 12, 1876, c. 179, and of June 17,
1878, c. 259, and the notices from the Post-Office Department
that the reductions assumed to be contemplated by them would
be insisted on; the fact that they were made in the adjustment
of accounts, and that the railroad company, notwithstanding
its protest, continued to perform the service, - had the effect
to supersede the contracts of 1875, and substitute new ones in
their stead, on the basis of the reduced compensation. Such,
in substance, was the view taken by the Court of Claims.
In our opinion, that view cannot be maintained. The contracts of 1875 were for four years, and were expressly authorized by law. They were, therefore, valid, and binding on the
United States as well as upon the railroad company. Tlhey
contained, within themselves, a mode for lessening, or, if
deemed best, for discontinuing entirely, the described service;
and provided for a proportionate reduction of the stipulated
compensation. In no other mode could the contract be changed,
except by the mutual assent of the parties. Any change attempted by either, otherwise, would have been merely a breach
of the agreement; and the United States would have been
liable'to damages for its breach, on the same principles and
to the same extent as a private party, for which a suitable
remedy was provided by law in the jurisdiction conferred upon
the Court of Claims. In this respect, the relation between the
parties was that of perfect equality in right.
If, in these circumstances, the government not merely accepted, but demanded, the performance of the contract service,
the presumption is that it meant to pay the contract price. It
would require positive and express words to negative that presumption. We find none such in the statutes of 1876 and

686

CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

1878. Their language may be well satisfied by confining
them to cases where no time contracts for service were then
in existence, and to contracts thereafter to be entered into.
They do not legitimately apply to contracts then existing,
whose terms had not expired, such as those in the present
case.
Such was the opinion of Mr. Attorney-General Taft, to
whom the Postmaster-General submitted one of the contracts
on which this suit is founded, for his opinion, whether it was
affected by the act of 1876. He replied in the negative,
saying: "In my opinion, Congress did not intend it to have this
effect. The contracts, of which that with the Chicago and
Northwestern Railway submitted by you for inspection is a
sample, were authorized by the law in force at the dates of
their execution. They bound both parties. A breach of them
by either would subject the delinquent to a claim for damages.
The act of July 12, 1876, was apparently passed with a view
to reduce the public expenses. But it would not have this
effect if an equivalent to the reduction of pay were recoverable
under the name of damages, with, perhaps, the expenses of
litigation added. Therefore I conclude that the construction
most consistent with justice and fair dealing is the true one,
viz., that, as to existing contracts, the rate remains as stipulated in the agreement during the term therein mentioned, but
that in those cases where no contract prevailed the reduction
should be made." 15 Op. Atty.-Gen. 182.
Of course, if it was not the intention of the acts of Congress
referred to, to affect the contracts of the company, the erroneous interpretation of them by the Postmaster-General, and
his action under it, cannot give to them any different effect,
for the rights of the parties depend on the law itself. And
the performance by the company of the service required by
its contract, notwithstanding the notice of the intended reduction of the compensation by the Postmaster-General, cannot
be construed as a waiver of its rights or an acquiescence in
new proposals ; and that whether it had protested against the
erroneous construction of the law or not. For it had no option. It was bound by its contract to perform the service, and

Oct. 1881.]

CHICAGO, ETC. RAILWAY CO. V. UNITED STATES.

687

its performance was demanded. It was not in a position absolutely to refuse to carry the mails, for it was bound to carry
them, if offered, on some terms, either prescribed by law or
fixed by contract; and it had the right to do so, without prejudice to its lawful claims, leaving the ultimate right to future
and final decision. It was not the case of a voluntary payment
of an illegal exaction, where the maxim, consensus tollit errorem, prevents a recovery; because in such case there is the
legal presumption of an abandonment of the claim. Volenti
non fit injuria. But here the service was to be performed, at
all events, just as it was performed, but under which of two
claims was in dispute. Its performance was a condition of
both, and cannot, therefore, be a bar to either.
We are of opinion, for these reasons, that the Court of
Claims should have rendered judgment in favor of the appellant for its whole claim.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with instructions
to render a judgment in conformity with this opinion.

CHICAGO, MILWATKEE,
V.
UNITED

STATES V.

AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY

COMPANY

UNITED STATES.

CHICAGO,

MILWAUKEE, AND

RAILWAY

COMPANY.

ST.

PAUL

The provisions of the act of July 12,1876, e 179 (19 Stat. 78), touching a reduction of rates for railway service, do not apply to a contract then in force which
provided for transporting the mails for a term of years.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEALS

The Solicitor-General for the United States.
lMr. John W. Cary, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
The action in the Court of Claims was brought by the Chi-

cago, Milwaukee, and St. Paul Railway Company to recover
compensation withheld by the Postmaster-General, claimed to

