Oct. 1881.]

LIBBY V. HOPKINS.

Such being the condition of the law when the proceedings
now complained of were had in the Circuit Court, we think it
was clearly in the power of that court to dismiss the appeal
because it had not been entered in time.
Petition denied.

LIBBY V. HOPKINS.
1. "Mutual debts" and "mutual credits," where they occur in sect. 20 of the act
of March 2, 1867, c. 176 (14 Stat. 617), and sect. 5013 of the Revised Statutes, are correlative. Credits do not include a trust, and in case of bankruptcy only such credits as must in their nature terminate merely in debts
are the subject-matter of set-off.
2. A. being indebted to B. by note secured by mortgage, and on an account, sent
him money with instructions to credit it on the note. A. was shortly thereafter adjudged to be a bankrupt. Held, that the money was received by
B. in trust to apply it pursuant to instructions, and, having refused to conform to them, he cannot set off against it the account, but is liable therefor
to A.'s assignee in bankruptcy.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio.
The suit was brought in the Superior Court of Cincinnati
by A. T. Stewart & Co., of which firm the plaintiffs in error
are the survivors, against Lewis C. Hopkins and wife, and Isaac
M. Jordan, trustee in bankruptcy of Hopkins.
It appears from the record that A. T. Stewart & Co., merchants, of the city of New York, loaned, June 6, 1866, Hopkins, a merchant of Cincinnati, Ohio, $100,000, and took his
promissory note of that date therefor, payable on demand
with interest from date, to secure the payment of which he executed and delivered to them several mortgages on real estate in
Cincinnati and its vicinity. Both before and after that date
he bought of them large quantities of goods, and as a matter
of convenience kept with them two accounts, - one a cash
and the other a merchandise account. They were his bankers.
All his remittances were sent to them and credited to him
in the cash account. By drafts thereon he paid his debts
for merchandise to them and other New York merchants,
and in order to replenish it he borrowed the 100,000 above

LIBBY v. HOPKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

mentioned, and it was carried to his credit in that account.
On May 4, 1867, he paid on his note $25,000. On Nov. 12,
1867, he remitted to Stewart & Co. $10,000, on Dec. 27,
1867, $17,000, on the 28th of the same month, $10,000, and
on the 30th, $48,025. He directed these remittances to be applied to the payment of his note, and to be credited thereon.
It is now no longer disputed that the first three of these remittances were so applied. The last two, with the interest thereon, constitute the sum now in controversy.
On Jan. 1, 1868, Hopkins suspended business, insolvent. At
that time he owed A. T. Stewart & Co. $231,515 on account,
and unsecured. His liabilities to others amounted to more
than $500,000. A petition in bankruptcy was filed against
him February 29. He was adjudicated a bankrupt March 30.
On April 80 Jordan was appointed trustee.
As to the foregoing facts there is no dispute.
In August, 1868, on what day the record does not show,
Stewart & Co. commenced this suit for the foreclosure of the
mortgages, claiming as due the full amount of the note, less
the payment of $25,000.
The answer, besides other defences not pertinent to any
contention now raised, averred that Hopkins had paid on the
note, not only the said sum of $25,000, but also the remittances above mentioned, making the total amount paid thereon
$110,025 ; and, after alleging that said payments were made in
fraud of the Bankrupt Act, demanded, by way of counterclaim,
a judgment against Stewart & Co. therefor.
The reply admitted that Hopkins requested Stewart & Co.
to credit the remittances on his mortgage debt, and averred
that they were held subject to his order, and continued to be
so held, up to the time when the rights of Jordan, trustee, attached, subject to such law of set-off as is provided in the
Bankrupt Act. It nowhere appeared in the pleadings that
Hopkins was indebted to the plaintiffs on any unsecured claim,
or in any other way, except upon the note for $100,000. No
unsecured debt of Hopkins was pleaded as a set-off or otherwise.
The Superior Court found that the mortgages were valid,
and the first lien on the premises therein described, and that

Oct. 1881.]

LIBBY V. HOPKINS.

there was due thereon, including interest, the sum of $75,957.06. It rendered a final decree that unless that sum with
interest be paid within one hundred and eighty days therefrom
to Stewart & Co., the mortgaged premises should be sold.
The court further found that when Hopkins made the last
two remittances, of $10,000 and $48,025, respectively, it was
with the intent and the express instruction in writing to Stewart & Co. to apply them in discharging the mortgage claim;
that Stewart & Co. refused to do so, but assumed, without his
authority or consent, to apply and did apply them to his credit
on the general account against him for merchandise; that
Stewart & Co. had no right to make such application; and that
the remittances remained in their hands as his moneys from the
several days of their payment until Feb. 29, 1868, when the
title of Jordan as trustee attached thereto. It also found that
the said two several sums were not subject to any claim of setoff or cross-demand, or of mutual debts or credits, on the part
of Stewart & Co., under sect. 20 of the Bankrupt Act, or
otherwise.
The court, therefore, rendered a decree in favor of Jordan,
trustee, against Stewart & Co. for $58,025, the aggregate of
the last two remittances, with interest, amounting in all to
$75,981.36.
The case was carried, by the petition in error of Stewart &
Co., and the cross-petition in error of Jordan, trustee, to the
Supreme Court of Ohio, by which the decree of the Superior
Court was affirmed.
Stewart & Co. thereupon brought the case here by writ of
error. Some of the members of the firm have died, and Libby
and another are its surviving members.
lMr. Aaron I. Perry for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Jackson A. Jordan and Mr. Isaac -Dayton, contra.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only question to which our attention is directed by
the plaintiffs is that of set-off under the twentieth section of
the act of March 2, 1867, c. 176 (14 Stat. 517), which is
as follows: "In all cases of mutual debts or mutual credits
VOL. xIv.

20

LIBBY V. HOPKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

between the parties, the account between them shall be stated,
and one debt set off against the other, and the balance only
shall be allowed or paid, but no set-off shall be allowed of a
claim in its nature not provable against the estate: Provided,
that no set-off shall be allowed in favor of any debtor to the
bankrupt of a claim purchased by or transferred to him after
the filing of the petition." This provision was in force at the
time of the trial, and is now substantially incorporated in sect.
5073 of the Revised Statutes.
The contention of the plaintiffs is that they were entitled
under this section to set off an unsecured account due them
from Hopkins against the $58,025 remitted to them by him
with directions to credit it on his mortgage debt, and which
they refused so to apply.
Waiving the difficulty that they have not pleaded that
account as a set-off, we shall consider the question made by
them. That account is a claim provable against the bankrupt
estate, and it was not purchased by or transferred to them after
the filing of the petition in bankruptcy. The controversy is,
therefore, reduced to this issue: Were that account and the
money transmitted by Hopkins to them, and held and not
applied by them to the mortgage debt, mutual credits, or
mutual debts which could be set off against each other under
the twentieth section of the Bankrupt Act?
The plaintiffs insist that the term " mutual credits " is more
comprehensive than the term "mutual debts " in the statutes
relating to set-off; that credit is synonymous with trust, and
the trust or credit need not be money on both sides; that
where there is a deposit of property on one side without
authority to turn it into money, no debt can arise out of it ;
but where there are directions to turn it into money it may
become a debt, the reason being that when turned into money
it becomes like any other mutual debt. They say that the
first of the two remittances under consideration is not proved
to have been other than money, but as it was only $10,000 its
The larger
application to the note could not be required.
remittance was in drafts, and their application could-not be
required. But there was authority to turn them into money,
and that to get the money on them it was necessary that the

Ot. 1881.]

LIBBY v. HOPKINS.

drafts should be indorsed by the plaintiffs, and that the indorsement to and collection by them put the money received in the
same plight as if the drafts had been sent to them for collection. We cannot assent to these views, and they receive but
little support from the adjudged cases.
Ex parte Deeze (1 Atk. 228) arose under the twentyeighth section of the statute 5 Geo. II. c. 30, which provides
that "when it shall appear to the said commissioners [in bankruptcy] or the major part of them, that there hath been mutual
credit given by the bankrupt and any other person, or mutual
debts between the bankrupt and any other person, at any time
before such person became bankrupt, the said commissioners,
or the major part of them, or the assignees of such bankrupt's
estate, shall state the account between them, and one debt shall
be set against another, and what shall appear to be due on
either side on the balance of said account, and on setting such
debts against one another, and no more shall be claimed on
either side respectively." In that case, a packer claimed to
retain goods not only for the price of packing them, but for a
sum of £500 lent to the bankrupt on his note. Lord Hardwieke determined that he had such right on the ground of
mutual credits, holding that the words " mutual credits" have
a larger effect than " mutual debts," and that under them
many cross-claims might be allowed in cases of bankruptcy,
which in common cases would be rejected.
But this ruling was subsequently made narrower by Lord
Hardwicke himself, in -x parte Ockenden (id. 235), and was
in effect overruled in Rose v. Hart, 8 Taunt. 499. In that case
trover was brought for cloths deposited by the bankrupt previously to his bankruptcy, with the defendant, a fuller, for the
purpose of being dressed. It was held that the defendant was
not entitled to detain them for his general balance for such
work done by him for the bankrupt previously to his bankruptcy, for there was no mutual credit within that section.
And the court declared that the term " mutual credits " in the
act meant only such as must in their nature terminate in
debts.
The rule established in this case, as to the nature of the
credits which can be the subject of set-off, has been declared in

LIBBY V. HOPKINS.

other cases.

[Sup. Ct.

Smith v. Hodson, 4 T. R. 211; Easum v. Cato,

5 Barn. & Ald. 861. The effect of the authorities is, that the
term "mutual credits" includes only such, where a debt may
have been within the contemplation of the parties.
These authorities make it clear that, even under the Bankrupt Act of 5 Geo. If., the plaintiffs would have no right to the
set-off claimed by them. And they lose sight of the controlling
fact that the money and the drafts which they turned into
money were remitted, with express directions to apply them on
a specific debt. Without the consent of Hopkins they could
never be changed into a debt due to him from the plaintiffs,
and that consent has never been given.
Whether or not he had the right to direct the application,
is immaterial. There was no legal obstacle to the application
as directed. The fact that he gave the direction imposed on
the plaintiffs the obligation to apply the money as directed, or
to return it to him.
They had no better right to refuse to make the application
and to retain the money and set off against it the debt due to
them from Hopkins, than if they had been directed to pay the
money on a debt due from him to another of his creditors, or
than they had to apply to the payment of his debt to them
money which he left with them as a special deposit.
Hopkins sent them the money and drafts, upon the faith and
trust that they would be applied according to his instructions.
The refusal so to apply them did not change the relations of
the parties to this fund, nor make that a debt which before
such refusal was a trust. To so hold would be to permit a
trustee to better his condition by a refusal to execute a trust
which he had assumed.
Winslow v. Bliss (3 Lans. (N. Y.)
220) and Scammon v. Kimball (92 U. S. 362), cited by the
plaintiffs to support their contention, are cases where a bank
or banker was allowed to set off the money of a depositor
against a debt due from him to the bank. The answer to these
authorities is that the relation between a bank and its general
depositor is that of debtor and creditor. When he deposit,
moneys with the bank, it becomes his debtor to the amount of
them. Foley v. Hill, 2 H. L. Cas. 28; Banc of the Republic ,.
Millard, 10 Wall. 152; Bullard v. Randall, 1 Gray .(Mass.),

Oct. 1881.]

LIBBY V. HOPKINS.

605. When, therefore, he becomes indebted to the bank, it is
a case of mutual debt and mutual credit, which may well be
set off against each other.
But in this case there was no deposit. The relation of
banker and depositor did not arise, consequently there was no
debt. When A. sends money to B., with directions to apply
it to a debt due from him to B., it cannot be construed as a
deposit, even though B. may be a banker. The reason is plain.
The consent of A. that it shall be considered a deposit, and not
a payment, is necessary and is wanting.
Another answer to the contention of the plaintiffs is found
in the language of the twentieth section of the Bankrupt Act of
March 2, 1867, c. 176, which differs materially from that of the
twenty-eighth section of 5 Geo. II. c. 30. In our act the terms
"credits" and "debts " are used as correlative. What is a debt
on one side is a credit on the other, so that the term "credits"
can have no broader meaning than the term "debts." We find
no warrant in the language of the section or its context for extending the term "credits " so as to include trusts. Generally
we know that "credit " and " trust " are not synonymous
terms. They have distinct and well-settled meanings, and we
see no reason why they should be confounded in interpreting
the twentieth section of the Bankrupt Act.
To authorize a set-off there must be mutual credits or mutual
debts. The remitting of certain money assets by Hopkins to
the plaintiffs, to be applied by them according to his instructions, did not make them his debtors, but his trustees. So that
there were in the case no mutual credits or debts. The indebtedness was all on the side of Hopkins. The plaintiffs owed
him nothing. They held his money in trust to apply it as directed by him.
They refused to make the application as he directed. They
held it, therefore, subject to his order. They continued so to
hold it until the rights of the trustee in bankruptcy attached,
and until he sought to recover it by his counter-claim filed in
this case.
.The only contention of the plaintiffs set up in this court is
that the Supreme Court of Ohio approved of the action of the
Superior Court of Cincinnati, in refusing to allow the plaintiffs

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

to set off the unsecured debt due to them by Hopkins against
funds intrusted to them by him for an entirely different purpose. We are of opinion that the decision of the Superior
Court was correct. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
Ohio must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGHt.
1. Reissued letters-patent No. 6166, granted Dec. 8, 1874, to George Nimmo, for
"an improvement in moulding crucibles" arc void, the invention therein
described being neither patentable nor novel.
2. A combination of old elements is not patentable unless they all so enter into
it as that each qualifies every other. It must either form a new machine
of distinct character and function, or produce a result which is not the
mere aggregate of separate contributions, but is due to the joint and
co-operating action of all the elements.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Pennsylvania..
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. James . Maynadier for the appellants.
Mr. William Bakewell, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed by the appellants, to restrain
the appellees from infringing reissued letters-patent No. 6166,
dated Dec. 8, 1874, to George Nimmo, for an improvement
in moulding crucibles, and for an account, the patent haying
been reissued to the complainants as assignees of Nimino, the
inventor and original patentee.
The original patent, No. 49,140, granted to him, bears date
Aug. 1, 1865.
The subject of the alleged invention is an improvement in
the manufacture of moulding crucibles and pots, made of a
plastic material, composed of plumbago, or so-called black-lead
and fire-clay, used principally in the manufacture of steel.
They were formerly made by hand, on a common potter's

