ROSENBLATT V. JOHNSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

city conferred on the company valuable rights by special ordinance; namely, the use of the streets for laying its pipes, and
the privilege of furnishing water to the whole population. It
may be the exercise of the highest wisdom to let the city use
the water in the manner complained of. The directors are
better able to act understandingly on this subject than a
stockholder residing in New York. The great body of the
stockholders residing in Oakland or other places in California
may take this view of it, and be content to abide by the action
of their directors.
If this be so, is a bitter litigation with the city to be conducted by one stockholder for the corporation and all other
stockholders, because the amount of his dividends is diminished?
This question answers itself, and without considering the other
point raised by the demurrer, we are of opinion that it was
properly sustained, and the bill dismissed, because the appelright in himlant shows no standing in a court of equity -no
suit.
self to prosecute this
Decree affirmed.

ROSENBLATT V. JOHNSTON.
The personal property of an insolvent national bank in the hands of a receiver
appointed pursuant to sect. 5234 of the Revised Statutes is exempt from
taxation under State laws.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
This is a bill in equity, filed Sept. 30, 1880, by Rosenblatt,
collector of the city of St. Louis, against Johnston, receiver of
the National Bank of the State of Missouri.
The bank was duly incorporated pursuant to the act of
Congress of June 3, 1864, c. 106. (13 Stat. p. 99), and the acts
amendatory thereof, and had its situs in that city. It suspended
payment June 9, 1877. Shortly thereafter Johnston was, by
the Comptroller of the Currency, appointed such receiver. He
then took possession of its assets, and disposed of them in the

Oct. 1881.]

ROSENBLATT V. JOHNSTON.

settlement of its liabilities. The bill avers that while in his
hands the assets were subject to taxation under the laws of that
State for the support of the State government, the government
of the city, and the public schools, in like manner and to the
same extent and effect as all other taxable personal property
in the city during the same period; that the assessment of
taxes for the years 1877 and 1878 was duly made; that the
fund in his hands is sufficient to pay them ; and that the shares
of the bank since his appointment have been absolutely worthless. It prays for an order upon him to pay the taxes out of
that fund, and for general relief.
The court sustained a demurrer to the bill, and Rosenblatt
appealed.
Mr. Leverett Bell for the appellant.
Mr. J. M. Krum and Mr. C. H. Krum for the appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The single question in this case is, whether the personal
assets and personal property of an insolvent national bank in
the hands of a receiver appointed by the Comptroller of the
Currency, in accordance with the provision of sect. 5234 of the
Revised Statutes, are exempt from taxation under State laws,
and we have no hesitation in saying that in our opinion they
are. Such property and assets, in legal contemplation, still
belong to the bank, though in the hands of a receiver, to be
administered under the law. The bank did not cease to exist
on the appointment of the receiver. Its corporate capacity
continues until its affairs are finally wound up and its assets
distributed. Bank of Bethel v. Pahquioque Bank, 14 Wall.
883; Kennedy v. aibson, 8 id. 498; Bank v. Kennedy, 17 id.
19. If the shares have any value, they are taxable in the
hands of the holders or owners, under sect. 5219 of the Revised 'Statutes ; but the property held by the receiver is exempt
to the same extent it was before his appointment.
Decree affirmed.

