PEOPLE V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

for a mistake which was made in his favor, the appellee might
have recovered a larger amount.
Appeal dismissed.

PEOPLE V. COMMISSIONERS.
1. Quoere, Are the statutes of a State in violation of the Constitution of the
United States if they subject to taxation the capital of her citizens, although,
on the day to which the assessment of it relates, it is invested in products "
on shipboard in the course of exportation to foreign countries, or in transit
from one State to another for purposes of exportation.
2. If on that day it consisted of money, subsequent assessments including it cannot be set aside on the ground that, when they were made, it was employed
in the purchase of products for exportation.
0

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. I. Charles Ulman for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. A. Beall, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The only question presented upon the writ of error is,
whether an assessment made by the board of tax commissioners
for the city and county of New York, of the personal estate of
Hanemann, the relator of the plaintiff in error, was in violation of the Constitution of the United States. The statute,
1
under the authority of which it was made, provides that " all
lands and all personal estate within this [that] State, whether
owned by individuals or by corporations, shall be liable to
taxation," subject to certain exemptions thereinafter specified.
1 Rev. Stat. N. Y., c. 13, tit. 1, sect. 1. It also declares that
"the terms ' personal estate' and 'personal property,' whenever they occur in this chapter, shall be construed to include
all household furniture; moneys; goods; chattels; debts due
from solvent debtors, whether on account, contract, note, bond,
or mortgage; public stocks; and stocks in moneyed corporations. They shall also be construed to include such portion of
the capital of incorporated companies, liable to taxation on their
capital, as shall not be invested in real estate." Id., sect. 3.
Hanemann, being a resident of the city, county, and State

Oct. 1881.]

PEOPLE V. COMMISSIONERS.

of New York, was assessed for taxation, as of Jan. 1, 1876,
upon his personal estate, exclusive of bank stock, to the amount
of $60,000. He made application, supported by affidavit, for
the reduction or remission of such assessment, upon these
grounds: That the value and amount of all his personal estate,
on the first day of January, 1876, and during the period covered
by the assessment, did not exceed $125,000, of which $4,500
was invested in railroad bonds, and $1,000 in household furniture; that the remainder was "continuously employed in the
business of exporting cotton from the United States of America
to foreign countries, through the Customs Department of the
United States aforesaid, and that said employment consists in
purchasing and paying for the cotton in different States of the
United States, and actually exported by deponent in said business, and for the payment of all the expenses of shipping the
same as such exports," and that the only portion of his estate
upon which he is liable to be assessed and taxed is the sum of
$5,500. In his examination before the tax commissioners, upon
the occasion of his application for reduction or remission, he
further stated that " his said capital is invested uniformly and
continuously in cotton, the product of, and having a situs in,
various States outside of New York, and in transit to the port
of New York, and other Atlantic ports, for the sole purpose of
exportation, and no portion of such cotton is intended to be, or
is, sold in New York, or any other United States market; that
deponent purchases cotton largely upon credit, and that of his
capital as much as $115,000 is continuously invested in cotton
of the growth of the United States, which has been cleared at
a custom-house, and is on shipboard in course of exportation to
some foreign State or country."
The reduction and remission were both denied. Upon writ
of certiorari the proceedings of the tax commissioners were
affirmed in the Supreme Court of the State, and its judgment
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
The assessment in excess of $5,500, it is claimed by plaintiff
in error, was in violation as well of art. 1, sect. 10, and clause
2, as of art 1, sect. 8, clause 3, of the National Constitution.
The main propositions advanced by his counsel are that products of the United States which have passed the Customs

468

PEOPLE V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Department, and are on shipboard in the course of exportation
to a foreign market, have become exports, and are no longer
within the taxing power of the State; that to tax money invested in such products is, in effect, laying an impost or duty
on exports; that a tax on capital invested in the products of
the United States, in transit from one State to another for
purposes of exportation, or on money used and employed in
exporting such products, is an unauthorized interference by the
State with the regulation of commerce.
Although these propositions are deemed by counsel to be
very easy of solution, we do not feel obliged to determine them
in this case. The plaintiff in error was assessed, upon his personal property, as of Jan. 1, 1876. If the capital, which he
claims was uniformly and continuously employed in the business
of purchasing cotton for exportation from the United States to
foreign countries, through the Customs Department, was, in
fact, in money on the first day of January, 1876, he could not
escape a subsequent assessment of that money upon the ground
that, at the time the assessment was made, it was invested in
cotton for exportation to foreign countries. Neither in his
affidavit nor in his examination before the tax commissioners
does he distinctly claim (and, perhaps, could not) that the
capital which he thus employed in the business of purchasing
cotton for exportation was, in fact, so invested on the first day
of January, 1876. His capital may have been, in a business or
mercantile sense, continuously so employed, and yet it may not
have been, in fact, so invested at the date to which the assessment, whenever made, relates. We have no occasion, therefore,
in the present case, to consider or determine the questions of
constitutional law discussed by counsel. It will be time enough
to consider them when they come before us in such form as to
require their determination.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTB. -

This cause was decided and the opinion delivered at the last term.

