Oct. 1881.]

Fox

V. CINCINNATI.

pany, with interest, after deducting the sum already paid to
the widow, and the several sums advanced by the defendants;
and it is
So ordered.

Fox v.

CINCINNATI.

1. Pursuant to authority conferred by law, the board of public works of a
State leased the surplus water of her canals, but-reserved the right to
resume the use of it, when it should be needed for the purposes of navigation. A statute was subsequently passed whereby one of the canals within
certain limits was granted to, and appropriated by, a city for a highway.
Held, that the lessee was not thereby deprived of his property without due
process of law, as the State, so far from assuming an obligation to maintain
the canals to supply water-power, had the right, of which every lessee was
bound to take notice, to discontinue them, whenever the legislature deemed
expedient.
2. The question as to whether the city acted in 'excess of the grant, and violated
the conditions thereto annexed, cannot be re-examined here on a writ of
error to a State court.

EROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the Court.
Submitted by Mr. Timothy D. Lincoln and Mr. Charles Pox
for the plaintiff.
There was no opposing counsel.
Mn. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
By the laws of Ohio the board of public works was authorized to sell or lease, for hydraulic purposes, the surplus xater in
the canals of the State not required for the purposes of navigation. This included water passing round the locks from one
level to another; but it was expressly provided that no power
should be leased or sold, except such as should accrue from
surplus water, "after supplying the full quantity necessary for
the purposes of navigation." The laws also required that every
lease or grant of power should contain a reservation of the right
to resume the privilege, in whole or in part, whenever it might
be deemed necessary for the purposes of navigation. In case
of resumption, the rents reserved were to be remitted or corre-

Fox V. CINCINNATI.

[Sup. Ct.

spondingly reduced. Rev. Stat. 1880, sects. 7775-7778 ; act of
March 23, 1840, Laws of 1840, p. 174, sects. 20, 21, 22, 23.
The State owned, among others, the Miami and Erie Canal,
having one of its termini at the city of Cincinnati, where it
connected with the Ohio River through a series of locks, beginning on the east side of Broadway, a street in the city. A
lease was made by the board of public works of the water which
passed around one of these locks, known as lock No. 8, for
hydraulic purposes. Provision was made, in accordance with
the requirements of the law, for a resumption of the privilege,
if deemed necessary for the purposes of navigation, &c. Fox
became the owner of this lease as early as 1855.
On the 24th of March, 1863, a statute was enacted, under
which a grant was made to the city of that part of the canal
between Broadway and the river, for a public highway and
sewerage purposes, but subject to all outstanding rights or
claims, if any, with which the grant might conflict. No work
could be done by the city upon the granted premises until its
plan of improvement should be approved by the board of public works. Sect. 2 of the statute authorizing this grant is as
follows:

-

"The said grant shall not extend to the revenues derived from the
water privileges in said canal, which are hereby expressly reserved;
and the said grant shall be made upon the further condition that
the said city, in the use as aforesaid of all or any of said portion of
said canal, shall not obstruct the flow of water through said canal,
nor destroy nor injure the present supply of said water for milling

purposes, and that said city shall be liable for all damages that may
accrue from such obstruction or injury; but it is not intended
hereby to relieve the lessees of said canal, or their assignees, from
any responsibilities imposed upon them by IAn act to provide for
leasing the public works of the State,' passed May 8, 1861, or by
the instrument of lease executed in pursuance of said act, except
as and to the extent that they may be interfered with, as said city

may from time to time, enter upon, improve, and occupy any part
of said grant."
In constructing the avenue contemplated by the statute, Fox
claimed that the power to be furnished under his lease was
destroyed, and he brought this suit against the city to recover

Oct. 1881.]

FOX v. CINCINNATI.

the damages which he alleges he thereby sustained. The
defence relied, among other things, on the statute as an abandonment of the canal by the State for the purposes of navigation, and claimed that this amounted to a rescission of the lease.
To this he replied that, if the statute had that effect, it was void
under the Constitution of the United States, because it deprived
him of his property without due process of law and without
just compensation. The Supreme Court of the State sustained
the law; and, to test the correctness of that decision, he brought
this writ of error.
That the State by its grant to the city actually abandoned
the canal at the point in question cannot be denied. The use
of the property as a public street is clearly inconsistent with
all ideas of navigation by water. The single question we have
to consider is whether there is anything in the lease under
which Fox claims which prevents the State from making such
an abandonment without compensation to him. Whether the
city has acted in excess of the grant, and violated the provisions of sect. 2 of the statute, so as to render itself liable for
damages on that account, is for the State court to determine,
and its decision on that question is not reviewable here.
The use of the water for hydraulic purposes is but an incident to the principal object for which the canal was built;
to wit, navigation. The large expenditures of the State were
to furnish, not water-power, but a navigable highway for the
transportation of persons and property. The authority of the
board of public works to contract in respect to power was expressly confined to such water as remained after the wants of
navigation had been supplied; and it never could have been
intended in this way to impose on the State an obligation to
keep up the canal, no matter what the cost, for the sole purpose of meeting the requirements of its water leases. There
was certainly no duty resting on the State to maintain the canal
for navigation any longer than the public necessities seem to require. When it was no longer needed, it might be abandoned;
and, if abandoned, the water might be withdrawn altogether.
Provision was made for resuming the water and stopping
the supply, if the canal was kept up for navigation; but no
such provision was necessary in respect to the abandonment
VOL. XIV.

50

WOOD V. WEIMAR.

[Sup. Ct.

of the whole work, because the right to abandon followed
necessarily from the right to build. If the water was resumed
while navigation was maintained, no matter how injuriously
it affected lessees, all that could be asked of the State was
to forego the further collection of rents, or refund a reasonable proportion of such as had been paid in advance. The
entire abandonment of the canal could not create any different
liability. Every lessee of power took his lease and put up his
improvements with full notice of the reserved right of the State
to discontinue its canal and stop his supply of water.
This is an accordance with repeated decisions, both in Ohio
and other States, and seems to us fully sustained on principle
and authority. Hubbard v. City of Toledo, 21 Ohio St. 379;
Elevator Company v. Cincinnati,30 id. 629; Trustees of the
W. & E. Canal v. Brett, 25 Ind. 409; Fishbalc v. Woodruff,
51 id. 102; Commonwealth v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 51
Pa. St. 351. We are referred to no case to the contrary.
Judgment affirmed.

WOOD v. WEIMAR.

1. In Michigan, replevin will lie at the suit of the mortgagee of personal chattels
against an officer who, by virtue of an attachment sued out against the
mortgagor, levied upon them while they were in his possession, and who,
when they are properly demanded, refuses to surrender them to the mortgagee.
2. Such a mortgage, executed in good faith to secure the amount actually due
upon what was deemed to be valid and subsisting obligations, will be upheld and enforced, although the several items which make up that amount
are not set forth; provided that subsequent creditors have not been injured by the want of specifications, and the proofs, which are adduced
to establish the identity of the debt, show that it comes fairly within the
general description.
3. An unrecorded mortgage is not, by the laws of Michigan, rendered void as to
creditors, although the mortgaged goods remained in the possession of the
mortgagor, if before the expiration of twelve months from its date they
were replevied by the mortgagee, who thereafter retained the possession
of them.
4. Where the interest on a certain mortgage debt was paid, and the assignee
took from the debtor other notes for that interest which were secured by
another mortgage, the latter cannot, as to them, avail against attaching
creditors.

