JONES V. RANDOLPH.

[Sup. Ct.

JONES V. RANDOLPH.
An instruction which assumes the existence of facts of which there is no evidence is misleading and erroneous.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

M1r. Walter -. Davidfge for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. John Selden, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action of ejectment, and the defendants below,
plaintiffs in error here, set up title under a deed of trust
made by William O'Neale, Nov. 12, 1820, to William A. Bradley, cashier of the Bank of Washington, to secure a debt to
that bank. On the 31st of December, 1839, at the request of
the father of Margaret R. Timberlake, a minor, French S.
Evans, her guardian, paid to the bank with her moneys in his
hands the amount of the debt. The note which evidenced it
was assigned to him in proper form, and from that time lie
was allowed to collect the rents of the property covered by the
trust deed. The amount he paid was $1,072.41, which, it is
conceded, was the actual sum then due the bank. -is guardianship terminated in July, 1843. He then settled his accounts
with the proper court, and filed in court the note he had got
from the bank. After that, in 1845, proceedings were instituted under the trust deed to sell the property to pay the balance due on the debt. At the sale the plaintiffs in error claim
to have become purchasers and to have acquired title, under
which they took the possession they now hold.
On the trial it became a material question whether the debt
secured by the trust deed had been paid before the attempted
sale. The evidence was that the guardian, between the time
he got the note and the time he went out of office, had collected
only about six hundred dollars of rents. These were credited
by him in his accounts with his ward, but there was nowhere
in the testimony anything tending to show that any other per-

Oct. 1881.]

JONES v. RANDOLPH.

son representing the owners of the debt ever had the possession
of the property or had ever actually collected any more of the
rents. The rights of the parties at the trial in reference to
this part of the case, so far as the record shows, depended upon
the actual collection of rents, and not upon the value of the
use and occupation of the property, while the creditor assumed
the right to collect the rents as they accrued and appropriate
them to the discharge of the debt.
Such being the condition of the evidence on this branch of
the case, all of which was embodied in the bill of exceptions,
the court charged the jury as follows " If the jury find from the evidence that William O'Neale
died on Oct. 24, 1837, having by his last will and testament,
and the codicil thereto, disposed of his estate as set out in
the paper hereunto annexed and marked A, and that after his
death, and down to Dec. 31, 1839, the said Rhoda O'Neale collected the rents and profits of the two brick houses mentioned
in the said codicil, and was in possession of the same, under
color of authority derived from the said last will and testament ; that on the day and year last aforesaid the last renewal
of the note mentioned in the deed of trust executed by the said
William O'Neale was in part unpaid and outstanding in the
hands of the Bank of Washington, mentioned in the said deed
of trust; that on that date one French S. Evans, while guardian of one Miss Margaret R. Timberlake, then eleven years of
age, and daughter, by a former husband, of the said Mrs. Margaret L. Eaton, mentioned in the said last will and testament,
from and with the means of his said ward paid unto the said
bank the whole amount then due on the said note, and the
same, with the security created by the said deed of trust, caused
to be assigned to himself as such guardian; and if the jury
further find that thereafter and between the said thirty-first
day of December, 1839, and the twenty-ninth day of July,
1843, the said Evans, as guardian aforesaid, of the rents and
profits of the estate so as aforesaid disposed of by the said last
will and testament, and with the consent of the said Rhoda
O'Neale, made collections from time to time, and applied
them to the said note, until the same, both as to principal
and interest, was fully paid, and that on the said twenty-ninth

JONES V. RANDOLPH.

(Sup. Ct,

day of July, 1843, the said Evans, in the Orphans' Court of
this District, closed his account as such guardian, then the jury
are instructed, as matter of law, that the said note, on or before
the twenty-ninth day of July, 1843, became extinguished, and
that no valid sale could be made of the property in question
under the said deed of trust, in the year 1845.
"If the jury find that the note in question was paid on or
before July 29, 1843, or at any time prior to 1845, out of the
proceeds or income of the estate of William O'Neale, deceased,
under the direction or consent of his widow, the deed of trust
became thereby extinguished."
Inasmuch as the evidence did not tend to show that more
than about six hundred dollars had been actually collected from
the rents by Evans or any other person for the account of the
holder of the note, we cannot but think this charge was misleading. It assumed that the jury might find that full payment had been made in that way, when there was no evidence
whatever to support such a verdict. It is possible that the
guardian, or some other person who for the time being properly represented the ward, while permitted to collect the rents,
ought to have collected more, and was on that account chargeable With more than he actually got, or that the debt had been
otherwise paid; but that was not the question submitted to
the jury. Under the instructions the jury were to inquire
only whether there had been a satisfaction of the debt through
actual collection of rents.
As this leads to a reversal of the judgment, we deem it unnecessary to consider any of the other errors assigned, and
especially whether the instruction requested by the defendants
was properly modified. The same questions may not arise on
a second trial.
The judgment will be reversed and the cause remanded with
directions to grant a new trial and proceed accordingly.
So ordered.

