PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

to set off the unsecured debt due to them by Hopkins against
funds intrusted to them by him for an entirely different purpose. We are of opinion that the decision of the Superior
Court was correct. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
Ohio must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGHt.
1. Reissued letters-patent No. 6166, granted Dec. 8, 1874, to George Nimmo, for
"an improvement in moulding crucibles" arc void, the invention therein
described being neither patentable nor novel.
2. A combination of old elements is not patentable unless they all so enter into
it as that each qualifies every other. It must either form a new machine
of distinct character and function, or produce a result which is not the
mere aggregate of separate contributions, but is due to the joint and
co-operating action of all the elements.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Pennsylvania..
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. James . Maynadier for the appellants.
Mr. William Bakewell, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed by the appellants, to restrain
the appellees from infringing reissued letters-patent No. 6166,
dated Dec. 8, 1874, to George Nimmo, for an improvement
in moulding crucibles, and for an account, the patent haying
been reissued to the complainants as assignees of Nimino, the
inventor and original patentee.
The original patent, No. 49,140, granted to him, bears date
Aug. 1, 1865.
The subject of the alleged invention is an improvement in
the manufacture of moulding crucibles and pots, made of a
plastic material, composed of plumbago, or so-called black-lead
and fire-clay, used principally in the manufacture of steel.
They were formerly made by hand, on a common potter's

Oct. 1881.]

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGH.

wheel, the hand and eye of the skilled workman building them
up in the desired shape, as the material revolved upon the
wheel. It is recited in the original patent to Nimmo that they
had also been made in a mould, by a pressing instrument, for
which reference is made to letters-patent, granted Oct. 26,
1852, to John Akrill. It is stated also by Nimmo, in the
specification to his original patent, that " difficulty has heretofore been experienced in removing the crucibles from the
mould, in consequence of the adhesive nature of the black-lead
compound or mixture employed for such crucibles. The amount
of water, also, that is required to make the mixture sufficiently
plastic causes the material frequently to crack and break in
shrinking as it dries."
The following is the description of the invention, as contained in the specification, referring to the drawing accompanying it: "The nature of my said invention consists in the manufacture of
crucibles in a plaster mould, which gives shape to the pot externally and absorbs the moisture from the pot, causing it to dry
uniformly and at the same time shrink away from the mould,
preventing the air acting on the outside of the pot until after the
moisture has been mostly absorbed, and prevents the pot from
splitting or cracking from unequal contraction in drying. I mount
my plaster mould in a revolving chuck, and employ a rib attached
to a lever for spreading the plastic crucible material on the inside
of the mould, and at the same time hardening, consolidating, and
polishing the crucible on the inside by means of said rib.
"In the drawings is a bed carrying the vertical spindle, on the
upper end of which is the hollow chuck, into which the plaster
mould fits, and these parts are revolved by a belt to a wheel and
crank, or by any other competent means. Near the chuck is an upright frame, with rollers over which the chain or rope passes, on one
end of which is the counter-weight, and on the other the lever,
having a handle at one end and carrying the rib. This lever is
guided by the upright frame, and when not in use is drawn up by
the weight. The crucible material is placed in the plaster mould,
and partially spread by hand or by a conical muller. The back
end of the lever is then brought beneath the stop or fulcrum, and
pressed down until the lever takes a stop. The rib on the lever
smooths, compresses, hardens, and polishes the interior of the

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

mould, forming a perfect crucible, possessing great strength and
beauty. At the same time there is great uniformity in the crucibles made in this manner. The crucible and mould are to be lifted
off the chuck, and another mould introduced in the chuck, and the
operation repeated.
"The crucible and mould are set aside. When the plaster of the
mould has absorbed the moisture from the crucible, and the crucible
has contracted away from the mould, and become sufficiently dry
to be exposed to the air without risk of cracking, the crucible is to
be removed and dried in any usual manner, and may be baked or
burned."
The claims are as follows:"What I claim and desire to secure by letters-patent is,
1. Manufacturing crucibles in a plaster mould, in the manner
and for the purposes specified.
"2. Lever I and rib n, applied in the manner specified to form
the interior of a crucible contained within a revolving mould, as set
forth.
"3. The combination of the revolving chuck c, plaster mould d,
lever 1, and rib n, as and for the purposes specified.
"4. Mounting the lever 1 and rib n in the frame g in the manner
specified, in combination with the counterpoise c, fulcrum o, and
stop p, for determining the size of the interior of the crucible, as
specified."
It is conceded by counsel for the appellants that the claims
in this patent were invalid, as being too broad, and that it
was for this reason, and for a more definite and limited description of the real invention intended to be claimed, that it was
surrendered and reissued.
The state of the art, at the date of his original patent, is
described by Nimmo in the reissue, as follows: "Long prior to said Nimmo's invention the mode of manufacturing certain articles of pottery by means of a rib or fbrmer to give
the desired shape to the inside of the article, and a revolving plaster vessel to properly present the ' ball' (as the lump of tempered
clay is called) to and support it under the action of the rib, was
well known; but this mode of manufacture was not applicable in
the manufacture of crucibles, because the apparatus was such that
the crucible would be injured or destroyed in removing the rib, by

Oct. 1881.]

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGH.

the end of the rib striking the upper part of the crucible, as will be
plain to all skilled in the art of crucible-making, and acquainted
with the mode of manufacture above referred to.
"Another mode of manufacturing certain articles of potteryware by means of a rib or former for the inside of the article, and a
revolving table (a common potter's wheel) which partially presented
the ball to and supported it under the action of the rib, the workman using his hands to aid in presenting the ball to and supporting
it under the action of the rib, is descriled in a French work published in 1857, entitled ILeeons de Cramique,' par M. A. Salvetat,
volume second, pages 121-2. This last-named mode of manufacture
was applicable to the manufacture of crucibles, the apparatus being
such that the rib was guided so as to cause it to approach the axis
of the pot, where it was necessary that it should do so in order
to prevent injury to the pot; but, even if useful at all in that manufacture, it is without doubt very much inferior to the mode of
manufacture invented by Nimmo, and hereinafter described, the
distinguishing difference between them being that the ball is presented to the rib and supported under its action, not by a flat revolving metal disk, but by a vessel made of plaster, which takes the
place of both the flat revolving disk and the workman's hands,
performing all the functions performed by this disk and the hands
of the workman, but in a much more perfect manner and in less
time.
"The invention of said Nimmo is, in fact, an improvement on
the mode of manufacture, as well as on the apparatus, described in
Salvetat's work, the improvement consisting in the different mode
6f presenting and supporting the ball; but we do not wish to be
understood as claiming this mode of presenting and supporting the
ball as the invention of said Nimmo, as his improved mode of
manufacture is new solely because it is, as a whole, substantially
different from the mode described by Salvetat, and from the mode
first above referred to; indeed, as a short general description of
limmo's improved mode, it may be said to be substantially the
same as that described by Salvetat, so far as shaping the inside of
the crucible is concerned, and substantially the same as the mode
first above referred to, so far as presenting the ball to and supporting it under the action of the rib is concerned. By Nimino's improved mode of manufacture much labor and expense are saved,
and, what is still more important, crucibles are produced which are
superior to those made by any practical mode known prior to said
Nimmo's invention, in many very important respects."

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

The drawings are the same in both the original and reissued
patent, but in the description of the machine, with reference to
the drawing contained in the reissue, prominence is given to
the mode of operating the rib, after the crucible is formed, by
which it can be withdrawn without striking and injuring the
crucible, as to which no allusion was made in the original
patent. It is admitted, however, that this mechanism is substantially the same as that described by Salvetat in the publication referred to.
The reissue expressly disclaims as the invention of Nimmo
both the modes and both the apparatus above mentioned, that
is, the use of a rib or former to give the desired shape to the
inside of the article, and the revolving plaster vessel or mould;
and the mode and apparatus described by Salvetat, that is, the
use of a rib or former, the apparatus being such that the rib
is guided so as to cause it to approach the axis of the crucible,
when it was necessary that it should do so in order to prevent
injury to it.
The importance of this feature in any apparatus of the kind
becomes manifest from the fact that crucibles of the character of those intended to be made by this process usually have
what is termed "a bilge," that is, are smaller in circumference
at the mouth or top than at some other point; so that if the
rib or former were lifted out perpendicularly from the position it occupies while in operation, it would necessarily strike
against the interior surface of the crucible as it rose. To avoid
this, it has to be withdrawn from the position it occupies while
in the act of forming the internal surface of the crucible, to one
nearer to the axis of rotation, so that being lifted, it may pass
upward through the mouth of the crucible without striking
against the sides. And considering how characteristic is this
feature of the apparatus, and how essential it is to its profitable
use, it is worthy of note that Nimmo, in his original patent,
does not allude to it, although his claim for managing his rib
includes it ; and equally so, that it does not seem to have suggested to him, at that time, its utility in connection with the
manufacture of crucibles with a bilge, for his description does
not distinguish between those which have and those which
have not a bilge, and his drawing is that of a mould with a

Oct. 1881.]

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGH.

flaring mouth, for the making of which such a motion of the
former, in withdrawing it, is not necessary. In addition
the mould itself, made of plaster, for vessels having a bilge,
is required to be in two parts, in order that it may be removed from the crucible after the operation is complete,- an
adaptation which does not appear either in Nilnmo's specifications or drawing.
Nimmo's actual claim, as made in the reissue, is as follows :"The improved apparatus above described, having the specific
character, objects, and functions above explained, and consisting of
the rib, the revolving mould, and the mechanism by which the rib
is guided toward the axis of revolution of the mould as it is withdrawn, as set forth, these elements being claimed only in combination each with all the others, and no claim is made to any
combination of any of them less than the whole."
It is admitted in argument by counsel for the appellants that
the mould is old and the rib is old, but it is claimed that prior
to Nimmo's invention the mechanism for combining the rib and
mould into one machine was such that the rib could not be
moved bodily towards the axis of the mould or away from that
axis.
Besides a denial of the alleged infringement, the appellees
maintained several defences. They claimed that the reissued
patent is void : because the claim is too broad; because there
is no coactive combination between the elements of the claim ;
because the state of the art, as set forth in the specification,
shows that there is no novelty in the alleged combination;
because the reissue is for a different invention from that described in the original patent; and because the alleged invention of Nimmo had been fully anticipated. The anticipations
set out in the answer and relied on were 1. By the Salvetat publication.
2. By the Wise patent, being a patent granted to Jacob
Wise and Freeman Wise, dated Nov. 30, 1852, No. 9437, for
an "improvement in the manufacture of stone and earthen
ware."

8. By the Smith patent, being a patent granted to William

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

Smith, dated Nov. 3, 1863, No. 40,506, for apparatus for making plumbago crucibles.
4. By prior knowledge and use of the alleged invention at
Kier's works in Pittsburgh.
The decree below dismissed the bill, to reverse which this
appeal is prosecuted.
The account given in the specification of the reissued patent, of the state of the art at the date of the alleged invention, and the reference to Salvetat's publication, describing the
method and apparatus referred to, and a comparison of that
with the claims and disclaimers of the appellants, require a
more particular examination of Salvetat's description of the
device and its mode of operation, as contained in his publication. It will be observed that the reissue represents Salvetat
as having fully described the rib or former, and the mechanism
which guides it so that it can be withdrawn from the crucible,
when completed, without injury, even when it has a bilge; but
as omitting in connection with it any use of a mould. The
statement of the reissue is, that while Salvetat described the
use of the rib for forming the interior of the vessel, its external form-was moulded by the unassisted hand of the workman,
manipulating the ball while revolving on the flat disc of the
common potter's wheel. And the alleged invention of Nimmo
consists merely in adding a mould to the apparatus described
by Salvetat to form the combination which he claims as his
invention.
An examination of the extract from Salvetat's publication,
descriptive of this apparatus and method, which is contained in
the record, makes it doubtful whether the account of it given
in the specification of the reissued patent is not a misconception.
The drawings illustrating it, it is true, do not show a mould,
and the text in referring to them says the vessel is supported
by the wheel. But this, perhaps, is explained by the statement that it is intended to show merely how Messrs. Bourgon
and Chalot, the originators of it, have arranged the rib in
a very ingenious manner for hollowing out hollow-ware with
the rib itself. The whole article or chapter is entitled, "1Hollow-ware pressing in plaster moulds;" and its very purpose
seems to be to explain the use and utility of moulds in shaping

Oct. 1881.]

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGH.

the forms of pottery by pressing, and all the other processes
and devices mentioned certainly refer to moulds as used. If the
rule "noscitur a sociis " applies, there would be little room to
doubt that the one in question also contemplated their use,
and it seems difficult to understand how the vessel can be
shaped externally unless the mould is implied.
But we assume, for the purposes of this case, that the account, as contained in the reissued patent, of this method and
apparatus is correct, and that Salvetat does not describe the
use of a mould in combination with the rib. There is, however, no doubt whatever that Salvetat describes the operation
of a rib, by means of a mechanism which directs it in the formnation of the interior of a vessel, while in motion on a revolving
wheel, and guides it when the vessel is formed, even when it
has a bilge, so that, by bringing it into a proper relation with
the axis of revolution, it can be withdrawn from the side of the
vessel which it has shaped, and lifted through its mouth or
top, without touching and injuring its sides. This is conceded
by the appellants, and is admitted in the patent itself. It is
also confessed that the use of the mould for supporting the
ball, while the rib or former presses it on the inside, and thus
shapes its corresponding outside, is old, and is not of itself
claimed as the invention of Nimmo. The alleged invention,
then, consists merely in supplying to the apparatus described
by Salvetat a mould for supporting the ball and giving shape
externally to the crucible.
We are clearly of opinion that this is not patentable. It
comes plainly within the rule, as stated by Mr. Justice Strong,
in Hailes v. Fan Wormer (20 Wall. 353, 368), where lie said:
" All the devices of which the alleged combination is made
are confessedly old. No claim is made for any one of them
singly, as an independent invention. It must be conceded that
a new combination, if it produces new and useful results, is
patentable, though all the constituents of the combination were
well known and in common use before the combination was
made. But the results must be a product of the combination,
and not a mere aggregate of several results, each the complete
product of one of the combined elements. Combined results
are not necessarily a novel result, nor are they an old result

PICKERING V. MCCULLOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

obtained in a new and improved manner. Merely bringing old
devices into juxtaposition, and there allowing each to work out
its own effect, without the production of something novel, is
not invention."
"The combination, to be patentable," said Mr. Justice
Hunt, in Beckendorfer v. Faber (92 U. S. 347, 357), " must
produce a different force or effect, or result, in the combined
forces or processes, from that given by their separate parts.
There must be a new result produced by their union: if not
so, it is only an aggregation of separate elements."
In Nimmo's apparatus, it is perfectly clear that all the elements of the combination are old, and that each operates only
in the old way. Beyond the separate and well-known results
produced by them severally, no one of them contributes to the
combined result any new feature ; no one of them adds to the
combination anything more than its separate independent
effect; no one of them gives any additional efficiency to the
others, or changes in any way the mode or result of its action.
In a patentable combination of old elements, all the constituents must so enter into it as that each qualifies every other;
to draw an illustration from another branch of the law, they
must be joint tenants of the domain of the invention, seised
each of every part, per my et per tout, and not mere tenants
in common, with separate interests and estates. It must form
either a new machine of a distinct character and function, or
produce a result due to the joint and co-operating action of all
the elements, and which is not the mere adding together of
separate contributions. Otherwise it is only a mechanical
juxtaposition, and not a vital union.
In the case of this apparatus the mould was known, and a
rib or former was known, and their use in combination was
known. Salvetat described a rib, so arranged that, after it had
performed its function in shaping the interior of the vessel, it
could be withdrawn, through the top of the vessel, so as not
to produce injury by striking against its side. This rib Nimmo
substituted for the old one in the same combination. And this
is the whole of the invention. Upon the principle stated,
there is no invention in it.
We are also of opinion that the invention claimed for

Oct. 1881.]

SAGE V. WYNCOOP.

Nimmo, as described in the reissued patent, is covered by the
prior patents to Wise and to Smith.
Undoubtedly they both embody the principle of a former
used in combination with a mould, for the purpose of manufacturing crucibles, connected so that the former can be withdrawn in the case of vessels having a bilge, without injury.
It is objected, however, that the machines described in these
patents are mere paper machines, not capable of successful
practical working. But on examination it sufficiently appears,
we think, that the objections can be sustained only as to
minor matters of detail in construction, not affecting the substance of the invention claimed, and could be removed by
mere mechanical skill, without the exercise of the faculty
of invention. In this view, the Wise and Smith patents
are not rendered inefficient as defences in this suit, by reason
of the alleged imperfections of the machines described in
them.
The bill of the appellants was dismissed by the court below,
on the ground of the prior knowledge and use of the alleged
invention at Kier's works in Pittsburgh. We are of opinion
that the testimony sustains that finding.
Decree affirmed.

SAGE V. WYNcooP.
1. Upon consideration of the proofs, the court affirms the decree below, declaring
invalid a lien acquired by the levy of an execution upon the goods of a
party who was immediately thereafter adjudged to be a bankrupt.
2. Wilson v. City Bank (17 Wall. 473) approved.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
This was a bill filed by Sage against Wyncoop, Cossitt, and
Fowler, to compel the application of a fund in the custody of
the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of New York, to the payment of two judgments which he
had recovered against Fowler in the Supreme Court of the

