THE "S. S. OSBORNE."

Oct. 1881.]

The same witness also testified that the drafts were all
drawn in the same form by the master on the owners to the
order of Niles & Co., payable in New York at ten days' sight,
and that the draft for $1,500 was indorsed by Niles & Co.
and delivered to the master. The cargo consisted of bides,
sheep-skins, kip-skins, horse and cow hair, and shin-bones, and
the vessel was detained in St. Thomas about two months.
Without considering any of the other important and interesting questions which have been urged on our attention in
the argument, we affirm the decree.
Decree affirmed.

THE "S. S. OSBORNE."
In order to justify this court in returning a cause in admiralty to the Circuit
Court, for the finding of facts which is required by the act of Feb. 16, 1875,
c. 77 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 315), it must appear that the omission to make such
finding is attributable to the court, and not to the parties.

MOTION for a writ of certiorarito the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Albert

a.

Riddle in support of the motion.

Mn. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from a decree in admiralty on the instance
side of the court. There is nowhere in the record a statement
of facts and conclusions of law such as is required by the act
of Feb. 16, 1875, c. 77, 18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 315. The case was
heard on its merits in the Circuit Court at the April Term,
1878, and decided September 24. On the 19th of September
a bill of exceptions was signed and filed to put on record the
objections of the present appellants to the rulings of the court
on their motion to dismiss the appeal from the District to the
Circuit Court. When the case was decided on its merits a
reference was made to a commissioner to ascertain and report

THE " S. S. OSBORNE."

[Sup. Ct.

the amount of damages. A report was filed Jan. 3, 1879, to
which exceptions were taken. These exceptions were heard
and a final decree rendered March 15. Al appeal was allowed
in open court the same day, and the cause docketed here September 13. We cannot find from the record that the court
was ever asked to state its findings specially, and it is conceded
that in fact no such statement was ever made. The appellants
now move for a writ of certiorarito the Circuit Court to certify up its findings.
We suppose the real object of this motion is to have the
cause remanded to the Circuit Court, so that findings may be
now stated and put into the record, as was done in The Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440. That was 'an exceptional case depending on its. own peculiar facts, and furnishes no precedent for
what we are now asked to do. The hearing was had in this
case, and the interlocutory decree which settled the merits rendered, more than three years after the act of 1875 took effect.
The provisions of that act must have been in the minds of the
counsel for the appellants, because a bill of exceptions was
signed at their instance and filed just before the decree was
entered, which could not have been done but for the change in
the practice brought about by this legislation. The final decree was not rendered until six months afterwards, and special
findings seem not to have been desired by either party. They
are only important in case of an appeal, and may certainly be
waived by the losing party. Under the circumstances of this
case, the court might reasonably infer that the appellants intended to rest their appeal on their bill of exceptions, being
satisfied that upon the findings, which would be stated if required, the decree must necessarily be sustained. To send the
case back would be unjust to the court as well as the parties,
for a special statement of the facts now would involve a rehearing. To justify us in returning a cause for such a purpose, it
must clearly appear that the omission was attributable to the
fault or neglect of the court and not to the parties.
Motion denied.

