Oct. 1881.]

OMERRELL V. TiCE.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The affidavits which have been filed by the plaintiff in
error, in opposition to these motions, are probably sufficient
to establish the fact that the value of the matter in dispute
exceeds $5,000. The motion to dismiss is, therefore, denied;
but on looking into the record we are entirely satisfied the
writ was taken for delay only. No assignment of errors has
been annexed to or returned with the writ, as required by sect.
997 of the Revised Statutes ; and every question presented by
the bill of exceptions or suggested upon the argument appears
to us so frivolous as to make it improper to keep the case here
for any further consideration. There was on the record, as it
stood when these motions were made, at least sufficient color
of right to a dismissal to justify us in entertaining with it a
motion to affirm in accordance with the provisions of Rule 6,
par. 5.
Motion to affirm granted.

MERRELL

v. TICE.

1. In an action for the infringement of his copyright of a book, the plaintiff cannot recover without proving that, within ten days from the publication
thereof, he delivered two copies of such copyright book at the office of
the Librarian of Congress, or deposited them in the mail properly addressed
to that officer.
2. Qucere, Is the certificate of the Librarian, under his official seal, that two
copies were so deposited, competent evidence of the fact.
3. Where to his certificate (infra, p. 658), setting forth other facts, there is added
a statement, not signed or sealed, that two copies of the publication were
deposited, - held, that the statement is admissible in evidence only against
the party making it.

E RRO

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Melvin L. Gray for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. P. Culver, contra.

MERRELL V. TiCm.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action at law to recover damages for the infringement of a copyright. Tice, the plaintiff below, is the
author of an almanac known as "Professor Tice's Almanac."
The copyright alleged to be infringed was that of the almanac
for 1877. The declaration contained the proper averments, and
the answer a general denial. On the trial the plaintiff produced
a copy of his almanac, having on its titlepage the words required
by the act, "Entered according to act of Congress," &c.; and
then, to show that he had complied with the law of copyright,
produced a certificate of the Librarian of Congress, under his
seal of office, in the words following: "

LIBRARY

OF CONGRESS,

COPY-)

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS,

RIGHT OFFICE, UNITED STATES
OF AmERICA.

COPYRIGHT OFFICE,
-

WASHINGTON.

No. 12,579 G.
"To wit: Be it remembered that on the 13th day of November,
anno Domini 1876, John H. Tice, of St. Louis, Mo., has deposited
in this office the title of a book, the title or description of which is
in the following words, to wit :-

" Professor Tice's Almanac for the year 1877, &c.
"The right whereof he claims as proprietor in conformity with
the laws of the United States respecting copyrights.
"
LIBRARIAN OF CONGRESS, COPY-) (Signed)
RIGHT OFFICE, UNITED STATES
A. R. SPoFORD,
Librarianof Congress.
OF AMERICA.
"I, A. R. Spofford, Librarian of Congress, hereby certify that the
foregoing is a true copy of the original record of copyright in the
Library of Congress.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed
the seal of my office, this 11th day of May, 1878.
"A. R. SPOFFORD,
" ibrarianof Congress.
"Two copies of the above publication deposited December 6,
1876."
To the introduction of that portion of said paper in the
words "two copies of the above publication deposited Decem-

Oct. 1881.]

MERRELL v. TiCE.

her 6, 1876," the defendant objected, on the ground that it
was no part of the certificate, but a mere anonymous statement,
when and by whom made not appearing, and incompetent;
which objection the court overruled, and permitted the statement to go to the jury; to which ruling the defendant excepted. No other evidence was given to show that any copy
or copies of the book had been deposited with the Librarian or
in the mail. The infringement was proved to the satisfaction
of the jury, who, under the charge of the court, rendered a
verdict for the plaintiff. Other exceptions to evidence appear
in the bill of exceptions, but it is unnecessary to consider them.
The questions to which we have given attention, and which
are decisive of the case, are: First,Whether the plaintiff was bound to prove that two
copies of the book had been deposited with the Librarian or in
a post-office, according to the requirements of the law?
Secondly, If he was, whether the proof adduced was competent for that purpose?
These questions will be considered together.
The acts of Congress relating to the subject are found in
sects. 4956 to 4961 of the Revised Statutes.
Sect. 4956 declares that no person shall be entitled to a
copyright unless he shall, before publication, deliver at the
office of the Librarian of Congress, or deposit in the mail,
addressed to the Librarian at Washington, a printed copy of
the title of the book or other article, &c.; nor unless he shall
also, within ten days from the publication thereof, deliver at
the office of the Librarian, or deposit in the mail addressed
to him, at Washington, two copies of such copyright book or
other article, &c.
Sect. 4957 requires the Librarian to record the name of the
book or other article in a book to be kept for that purpose, in
the words following: "Library of Congress, to, wit: Be it rebath
A. B. of day of -,
membered that on the deposited in this office the title of a book (map, chart, or otherwise, as the case may be, or description of the article) the title
or description of which is in the following words, to wit: (here
insert the title or description), the right whereof lie claims as
author, &c., in conformity with the laws of the United States

MERRELL

v.

TICE.

[Sup. Ct.

respecting copyrights. C. D., Librarian of Congress." The
Librarian is required to give a copy of the title or description,
under the seal of the Librarian of Congress, to the proprietor
whenever he shall require it.
Sect. 4958 prescribes the Librarian's fees: " First, for recording the title or description of any copyright book or other
article, fifty cents; second, for every copy under seal of such
record actually given to the person claiming the copyright, or
his assigns, fifty cents," &c.
Sect. 4959 declares that the proprietor of every copyright
book, &c., shall deliver at the office of the Librarian of Congress, or deposit in the mail addressed to him, within ten days
after its publication, two complete printed copies thereof, of
the best edition issued, and a copy of every subsequent edition wherein any substantial changes are made.
Sect. 4960 imposes a penalty of twenty-five dollars for failure
to deposit the published copies as required in the previous
sections.
Sect. 4961 declares as follows: "The postmaster to whom
such copyright book, title, or other article is delivered, shall, if
requested, give a receipt therefor; and when so delivered, lie
shall mail it to its destination."
On a mere inspection of these enactments it is very obvious
that the deposit of two copies of the book, after its publication, either with the Librarian of Congress, or in the mail addressed to him, is an essential condition of the proprietor's
right; and must, in some way, be proved in an action for
infringement. The words of the law are: "No person shall
be entitled to a copyright unless he shall also within ten days,
&c., deliver at the office of the Librarian of Congress, or deposit in the mail, &c., two copies of such copyright book."
Nothing can be plainer than this.
Then, what is competent proof of such a deposit? If, after
complying with all the requisite conditions, the law had authorized letters-patent for the copyright to be issued to the
proprietor, such letters would be competent, if not conclusive,
evidence that the conditions had been complied with. But no
such letters are issued in the case of copyrights. It is contended, indeed, that the Librarian's certificate answers the

Oct. 1,881.]

MERRELL V. TiCE.

same purpose. But it is plain that this certificate was only an
exemplification of the record required to be made on the filing
of the title before publication. Its form, as prescribed by the
law, and its contents as shown by the copy produced in evidence, show that it relates to nothing else. The publication
of the book, and the deposit of copies thereof, may not take
place until the lapse of months afterward. The certificate,
therefore, has no relation to the deposit of the books. The
record of which it is an exemplification is made without reference to any such deposit. Whether, after the deposit has
been made, the certificate of the Librarian, under his official
seal, that the books were deposited on such a day, would be
competent evidence of the fact, is not now the question; and
it may admit of considerable doubt. Perhaps a certificate of
the Librarian attached to a copy of the book, certifying that
two copies of the same book, or of which that is a true copy,
were deposited in his office on such a day, would be competent evidence, inasmuch as the Librarian's office is a public
one; the copyright books deposited with him are quasi-recobject
ords, kept in his custody for public examination, -one
no doubt being to enable other authors to inspect them in
order to ascertain precisely what was the subject of copyright.
But we express no opinion whether such a certificate would be
competent or not. In the present case no such certified copy
of the books deposited, nor a certificate of the fact that they
were deposited, was adduced in evidence. The memorandum
under the certificate had no validity as evidence. It might
have been put there by any person. It would be unsafe to
hold that a memorandum under a certificate, or indorsed upon
it, is part of the certificate. A certificate under seal, when
invested with legal force and effect, is a solemn instrument,
and ought to be complete, certain, and final in itself, without
any collateral addition or commentary. Its very form and
character as a certificate presuppose that it has the verification
and protection of the authenticating signature and seal. Any
matter extraneous, that is, not contained in the body of the
instrument, has not this verification and protection. Such extraneous matter may be added by other persons, or may be
erased or altered, without involving the offence of forgery or
36
voL. xIv.

ELWOOD V. FLANNIGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

alteration of the certificate. Memoranda of various kinds are
frequently indorsed on instruments of this sort for the convenience of the possessors, either to indicate their contents,

or to furnish other information with regard to their subjectmatter.

To hold that such memoranda are evidence, except

as against the party making them, would be wholly inadmissible.
We are satisfied that the evidence offered and objected to
was incompetent for any purpose in the cause. The judgment
must be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court

with directions to award a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

ELWOOD V. FLANNIGAN.
1. The United States agreed to grant to the chief of an Indian tribe two sections
of land to be thereafter selected, and to convey them by patent. After
they had been selected, he aliened them by deed, in fee, with covenants of
warranty. The patent was issued after his death. Held, that the title to
the sections inured to and was vested in his alienee.
2. The courts of the United States take judicial notice of the public statutes of
the several States.
3. On proof of the loss of a deed executed and acknowledged in Michigan, in
conformity to the laws of that State, and recorded in the county in Illinois,
where the granted lands are situate, a duly certified copy of the record,
with the requisite certificate of such conformity thereto annexed, is by the
statute of Illinois admissible in evidence.
4. The certificate of acknowledgment (iqfru, p. 564) conforms to the laws of
Michigan in force on the day of its date.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Walter B. Scares for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas Hoyne, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action of ejectment to recover the possession of

