. OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

SUGARMAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE D1ITRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR TiE.DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 345.

Argued January 9, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

To empower this court to ieview a judgment of a District Court as
involving the Constitution, under Jud. Code, § 238, the writ of error
must present a substantial constitutional question, properly raised
below.' P.. 183.
A substantial constitutional question cannot be based upon a refusal
to give requested instructions the substance of which was clearly
embodied in the charge to the jury. P. 184.
A judge is not obliged to adopt the exact language of instructions requested, or to repeat instructions already given in substance. P. 185.
Writ of error to review 245 Fed. Rep. 604, dismissed. -

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Hutchison v. Brown, 167 Pac. Rep. 624, 626; Jackson v. Lair, 48 Okla.
269. For earlier case, contra, see Rice v. Anderson, 39 Okla. 279. Compare also Linam v. Beck, 51 Okla. 727; Henley v. Davis, 57 Oklahoma,
45.
The petitioner in his brief sets out a number of letters from the Land
Department on the question of whether, under § 3, the date of application is to be considered the date of birth, when date of birth not given.
In all the communications where the question is considered it is stated
in effect, as in that of August 24, 1908, from Mr. Leupp, Commissioner
of Indian Affairs, to the Secretary of the Interior (Land 56330-1908
E. B. H.), that the "application for enrollment shall be construed, for
the purposes of the Government, as representing. the age of the applicant at that time, and that the date of the application shall be held to
be the anniversary of the date of birth except where the records show
otherwise.", It is always stated that the act shall be so construed "for
the purposes of the Government." This does not purport to be a result
reached on a careful interpretation of'the act; but was apparently
adopted simply as a practical working rule of the Department. McDaniel v. Holland, 230 Fed. Rep. 945, 948-950.

SUGARMAN v. UNITED STATES.
182.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Seymour Stedmon and Mr' T. E. Lattimer,for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. John Lord O'Brian, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Alfred Bettman, Special
Assistant to the Attorney. General, was on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. Jus

mcE
BRAmEis delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Espionage Act (June 15, 1917, c. 30, Title I, § 3,
40 Stat. 217, 219) provides .,that: "Whoever, when the
United States is at war, shall willfully cause or attempt. to
cause insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny, or refusal of
duty, in the military or naval forces of the United States
Sugarman was charged
shall be punished."
with havingviolated this section on July 24, 1917, by
words spoken in an address made at a Socialist meeting
which was attended by many registrants under the Selective Service Act, sustained in Selective Draft Law Cases,
245 U. S. 366. He was tried in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Minnesota, found guilty
by the jury, ad Sentenced. See 245 Fed. Rep. 604.
Thirty-one exceptions were taken to rulings of the trial
judge. Instead of seeking review by the Circuit Court
of Appeals under § 128 of the Judicial Code, the case is
brought here under § 238.
Review by this court on direct writ of error is invoked
on the ground that the construction or application of the
Federal Constitution was drawn in question. Thirty
of the rulings excepted to below are assigned as errors
,here. If any one of them involves a constitutional question which is substantial, or was such when the defendant
sued out his writ of error, we have jurisdiction to review
all the questions raised and it is our duty to determine

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion o.f the Court.

249 U. S.

them, so far as necessary to afford redress, even if we
should conclude that the constitutional question was correctly decided below. Williamson v. United States, 207
U. S. 425, 432, 434; Goldman v. United States, 245 U. S.
474, 476. But mere reference to a provision of the Federal
Constitution, or the mere assertion of a claim under it,
does not authorize this court to review a criminal proceeding; and it is our duty to decline jurisdiction unless the
-writ of error presents a constitutional question substantial
fn character and properly raised below. Equitable Life
Assurance Society v. Brown, 187 U. S. 308, 311; Goodrich v.
Ferris, 214 U. S. 71, 79; Hendricks v. United States, 223
U. S. 178, 184; ManhattanLife Ins. Co. v. Cohen, 234 U. S.
123; JBrolan v. United States, 236 U. S. 216, 218; United
Surety Co. v. American Fruit Co., 238 U. S. 140, 142.
Of the thirty-one exceptions taken below only two refer
in any way to the Federal Constitution. These two are for
refusal to give the following instructions:
(a) "The Constitution of the United States provides
that Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom
of speech, or of the press, or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition for a redress of grievarfces. This right han been deemed so essential and necessary to free institutio(ns and a free people that it has been

incorporated in substance in the constitutions of all the
states of the Union. These constitutional provisions referred to are not abrogated, they are not less in force now
because of war, and they are as vital during war as during times of peace, and as binding upon you now as though
we were at peace."
(b) "This provision of our Constitution will not justify
or warrant advocating a violation of law. A man may
freely speak and write and petition, but he is responsible
for the consequences of what he may say, write orpublish;
and if what he says and publishes has a natural tendency
to produce a violation of law, that is to impel the persons

SUGARMAN v. UNITED STATES.
182.

Opinion of the Court.

addressed to violate the law, and the person using the
language intends that it should produce a violation of
law, then the person using such language is subject to
punishment and this is not inconsistent with the right and
protection guaranteed by the Constitution of the United
States and of this state."
While the trial judge refused to give these specific instructions, his charge to the jury included the following
passage:
" Now, considerable has also been said in this case about
freedom of speech. The Constitution of the United States
provides that Congress shall make no law abridging the
freedom of speech. This provision of the Constitution is
of course in force in times of war as well as in times of
peace. But 'freedom of speech' does not mean that a
man may say whatever he pleases without the possibility
of being called to account for it. A man has a right to
honestly discuss a measure or a law, and to honestly criticize,it. Bit no man may advise another to disobey the
law, or to obstruct its execution, without making himself
liable to be called to account therefor."
This "passage in the charge clearly embodied the substance of the two requests made by the defendant. The
judge was not obliged to adopt the exact language of the
instructions requested, Holt v. United States, 218 U. S. 245,
253; nor was he obliged to repeat the instructions already
given in substance. Compare Bennett v. United States,
227 U. S. 333, 339. As no substantial constitutional question was presented by the defendant, this court is without
jurisdiction to review the other errors assigned.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

