COLUMBUS RY. & POWER CO. v. COLUMBUS.

399

Syllabus.

397.

That Congress has the authority to raise and support.
armies and to make rules and regulations for the protection of the health and welfare of those composing them, is
too well settled to require more than the statement of the
proposition. Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366.
Congress having adopted restrictions designed to guard
and promote the health and efficiency of the men compsing the army, in a matter so obvious as that embodied
in the statute under consideration, may leave details to the
regulation of the head of an executive department, and
punish those who violate the restrictions. This is also
well settled by the repeated decisions of this court. Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Union Bridge Co. v.
United States, 204 U. S. 364; United States v. Grimaud, 220
U. S. 506.
The judgment of the District Court is

Affined.

COLUMBUS RAILWAY, POWER & LIGHT COMPANY v. CITY OF COLUMBUS, OHIO, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 715.

Argued January 10, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

Constitutional questions not devoid of merit suffice as a basis for
jurisdiction in the District Court, however they, may be decided.

P. 406.
Ordinances passed by the City of Columbus under authority of certain

laws of Ohio and accepted by street railway companies, held contracts, binding the grantees to furnish street railway service for
twenty-five years, at specified rates, in return for the use of the
streets, and not permissive franchises which the grantees might
surrender when they ceased to be remunerative. P. 407.
If a party charge himself with an obligation possible to be performed, he

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellant.

249 U. S.

must abide by it unless performance becomes imposaible through the
act of God, the law, or the other party. P. 412.
An unexpected hardship may be considered in detewnining the scope
of a contract obligation, provided the contract isdoubtful and requires construction. P. 410.
Where a street car company was under a clear contract obligation to
furnish service at specified rates of fare, and various effects of the
war, particularly an award of the War Labor Board raising the wages
of employees, wrought a serious and unforeseen change of conditions,
making the rates grossly inadequate, but it did not appear that performance was thus rendered impossible or that the contract as a
whole, for its term of twenty-five years, would prove unremunerative, hc/d, that there was no vi8 major, excusing further performance,
and that enforcement of the agreed rates would not deprive the company of property without due process of law. P. 413.
Equity cannot relieve from bad bargains simply because they are such.
P. 414.
25 3 Fed. Rep. 499, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph S. Clark, with whom Mr. Karl E. Burr,
Mr.Henry A. McCarthy, Mr. Henry J. Booth and Mr. W.
0. Henderson were on the briefs, for appellant.
The franchise ordinances granted permission to operate
street cars on the streets of the City upon the terms and
conditions therein prescribed, and the Company was
bound to comply with these terms and conditions so long
as it continued to exercise the franchises, but these grants
were permissive only, and have been surrendered and
abandoned by the Company. Its reasons for such surrender and abandonment were that the rates of fare
prescribed in the grants were no longer compensatory, but,
on the: contrary, had become confiscatory.
The situation that has been brought about by the War,
resulting in a most unexpected increase in operating expenses of all kinds, and particularly the compulsory annual
wage increase of $560,000, due to the award of the National
Wnr Labor Board, cannot be held to have been within the

(X)LUMBUS RY. & POWER CO: r. COLUMBUS.
399.

401

Opinion of the Court.

contemplation of the parties when the franchises were
granted and accepted, and under these circumstances the
Company is entitled to a release of the obligations, if any,
that these grants may have imposed upon it to continue
to operate under them. The Kronprinzessin Cecilie, 244
U. S. 12; Metropolitan Water Board v. Dick, Kerr & Co.,
[1918] App. Cas. 119; Baily v. De Crespigny, L. R.'4
Q. B. 185; Liston v. Steamship Carpathian,[1915] 2 K. B.
(E. & J.) 42; Tamplin S. S. Co. v. Anglo-Mexican Co.,
[1916] 2 App.. Cas. 397,407; Brenner v. Consumers Metal
Co., 41 Ont. L. R. 534; Krell v. Henry, [1903] 2 K. B. 740,
749; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Hoyt, 149
V. S. 1; The Styria, 186 U. S. 1; B. E. & C. R. Co. v.
N. Y., L. E. & W. Co., 123 N. Y. 316; Moore & Tierney,
Inc., v. Roxford Knitting Co., 250 Fed. Rep. 278.
. The Fourteenth Amendment is a complete protection
against the enforcement of the confiscatory rates prescribed by the legislative enactments represented by
these two franchise grants.
Mr. Henry L. Scarlett, with whom Mr. David F. Pugh
was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Columbus Railway, Power & Light Company filed
its complaint and amended bill of complaint in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Ohio against the City of Columbus, Ohio, and officials
and members of the City Council of the City, asking an
injunction against the enforcement of ordinances concerning the operation of street railways upon certain
streets in the City of Columbus. Upon motions-to dismiss, and for a temporary injunction, the District Court
held that there was no jurisdiction as the amended bill of
complaint presented no substantial federal question, and,

OCfOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

considering the case upon its merits, held that the amended
bill did not state facts constituting a valid cause of action
in equity against the defendant, and dismissed the same.
An appeal was prosecuted to this court;, the case has been
argued and submitted.
The amended bill of complaint alleges in substance that
the Company and its predecessors have since the enactnient of two ordinances, hereinafter meniioned, and until
the 20th of August, 1918, operated a system of street
railway lines in the City of Columbus. The two ordinanceg in question are referred to in the bill and attached
thereto. The one, denominated the Blanket Franchise
Ordinance, was passed February 4, 1901, and the other,
called the Central Market Franchise Ordinance, was
passed January 21, 1901. The allegations as to these two
ordinances are supplemented by a statement of certain
so-called perpetual frqnchise ordinances on certain streets.
The two ordinances, above referred to, are each for the
term of twenty-five years. The ordinances were duly
accepted by the grantees thereof. Under the provisions
of the Blanket Franchise Ordinance the grantee and its
successors are required to issue and sell eight tickets for
twenty-five cents, and give universal free transfers. The
issue and sale of such tickets continued until August 20,
1918, when, it is alleged, the franchise under that ordinance was surrendered and canceled by the Railway
Company. Under the Central Market Franchise Ordinance the Company issued and sold eight tickets for
twenty-five cents, and gave universal transfers, and continued so to do until August 20, 1918, when, it is alleged,
the franchise was surrendered and canceled by the Company.
The bill sets forth allegations as to the extent of the
business of the Conpany-that its railway system includes more than one hundred and ten miles of main
track, and supplies the only street railway service in the

COLUMBUS RY. & POWER CO. r. (OLUMBUS.
399.

403

Opinion of the Court.

City of Columbus, except a very limited service furnished
by interurban cars running at long intervals upon certain
streets, that the Company also supplies power for war
and industrial purposes, and is the only commercial company furnishing electricity in the City of Columbus.
That Columbus and its suburbs contain a population of
more than 250,000 persons, and constitute a large industrial, manufacturing, military, and railroad center. That
more than 25,000 persons are employed in the manufacture of munitions, clothing and a great variety of other
war materials for use directly by the United States Government, and for the use of others furnishing war supplies
to the Government; also large railroad shops in which
are employed many thousands of persons engaged in the
making and repair of railroad engines, cars, and other
equipment used and to be used by the United States
Railroad Administration. That a large majority of, the
employees of these shops do and must depend upon the
street railway service of the Company as their means
of transportation to and from their places of employment;
and in said area is located the Columbus Barracks in
which are quartered more than one hundred thousand
recruits per annui, who also are dependent upon said
railway service. That the discontinuance or impairment
of the plaintiff's street railway service would cause irreparable harm to the Government of the United States,
to the City of Columbus and to all persons dependent
upon the service. That the Company has more than
twelve million dollars invested in the street railway lines
and equipment. It has large amounts of outstanding
mortgage bonds, of which the sum of $7,295,000 is chargeable against its street railway property, the annual interest
charged being more than $333,000. The operation and
management of the Company show increased and increasing costs of operation and decreased and decreasing net
revenue as a result of the War in which the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

was then engaged. The bill charges increases in the cost
of coal and in wages paid to the employees. The net
earnings of the operations of. the lines for the twelve
nonths ending June 30, 1918, after deducting operating
expenses, taxes and a proper charge for depreciation were
$301,987, an amount insufficient by more than $31,000
to pay the interest on the outstanding bonds of the
Company, properly chargeable to the railroad property,
and barely enough to pay 2Y2% on the value of the property employed by the Company in furnishing street railway service to Columbus. That in June, 1918, the street
railway employees of the Company demanded an increase
in wages, and*inaugurated a strike, which resulted in the
discontinuance of the service of the Company for two
days. That the eontroversy wasreferred to the National
War Labor Board, which Board on July 31, 1918, rendered
its decision increasing the wages of the street railway
employees more than 50%, thereby increasing the operating expenses of the street railway line by about $560,000
per. year. It is averred that as a result of such operation
for the current year ending June 30, 1919, the gross earnings will fall short of paying expenses, depreciation, and
taxes by approximately $250,000, and that there will
be no earnings from which to pay its interest charges,
or to yield any return to the Company on the value of
its property. That on August 20, 1918, the Company
surrendered and canceled its Blanket Franchise and its
Center Market Franchise by notification in writi.ng,
addressed to the City of Columbus, the Mayor, Council and Clerk thereof. The Company charges that the
rates of fare prescribed by the terms and conditions of the
two ordinances were not either before or when said franchises were surrendered as, above stated, and would not
be if longer enforced against the Company, sufficient to
enable it to maintain its street railway property in good
order and repair and to perform its duty as a public

COLUMBUS RY. & POWER CO. v. COLUMBUS.
399.

405

Opinion of the Court.

utility; that the further operation of the street railway
lines in the City of Columbus under the two ordinances
would be not only impracticable but impossible, and that
the enforcement of the said rates of fare would violate
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States. That said rates of fare are inadequate and
confiscatory, and their enforcement will deprive the Company of its property without due process of law. The
Company cha}ges that the defendents, unless enjoined,
will attempt to force it to continue to operate its street
railway lines under the said Blanket and Center Market
Franchises in violation of rights secured to it by the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. The
amended bill further sets forth that controversies, confusion, risks, and multiplicity of suits will result from the.
resistance of the Company to the enforcement of the inadequate and confiscatory rates of fare prescribed in said
ordinance. The bill prays for an injunction restraining
the defendants from compelling the Company, or attempting so to do, to operate its lines of street railway in the
City of Columbus under the said ordinances; from in
any way forcing, compelling, or attempting to compel it,
to charge and collect only the rates of fare prescribed by
the two ordinances for. carrying passengers, and from
interfering in any way with the operation by the Company
of the lines of street railway covered by the said perpetual
franchises.
In the written notice of surrender of the franchises,
attached to the bill as part thereof, the alleged facts as
to the operation of the Company are set forth much as
stated in the amended bill, and the award of the National
War Labor Board is set out. The request of February
25, 1918, to the City Council to authorize the Company
to charge higher rates, is stated, which was refused, as
was a later request. A recital of the recommendation
of the War Labor Board for increased rates of fare is also

- 406

OCTOBERt TERM, 1918.
-

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

set out in the written notice. The statement is made that
the Company refused to continue the issue and sale of
tickets as prescribed in the Blanket Franchise and Center
Market Ordinances and to longer operate its cars thereunder; that in order to give good street railway service
to the people of Columbus the Company will continue
to operate- the street railway lines, but not under the two
franchises or either of them, upon all of the streets of the
City, until notified by it to withdraw from those streets
not covered by the aforesaid perpetual franchises, and the
Company gave notice that it would thereafter charge
5 cents for a single ride and one cent for each transfer.
The District Court held that the bill made no case
properly invoking the jurisdiction of a federal court upon
constitutional grounds; that upon the merits, which the
District Court considered, the bill should be dismissed
for want of equity.
As to the jurisdiction of the court: If the court had,
decided the case upon the question of jurisdiction alone,
that question should have been certified here, and none
other would have been presented upon such appeal.
(Judicial Code, ยง 238.) As we have said, the court decided
the case upon the merits, and dismissed the bill. As a
constitutional question is involved the appeal brings the
whole case here. We are of opinion that there was jurisdiction in the District Court to entertain the bill as it
presented questions arising~under the Fourteenth Amendenint to the Federal Constitution not so wholly lacking in
merit as to afford no basis of jurisdiction. Jurisdiction
does not depend upon the decision of the case, and should
be entertained if the bill presents questions of a character
giving the party the right to invoke the judgment of a
federal court. We think the elaborate and careful opinion
of the District Judge of itself shows that substantial questions arising under the Federal Constitution were Dresented by the bill nid that the court had jurisdiction.

COLUMBUS RY. &-POWER CO. r. COLUMBUS.
390.

407

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the merits the decision of the case turns upon thi
nature and' character of the ordinances granting the
twenty-five year franchises. The theory upon which the
bill was framed, and the case argued here by appellant, is
that the grants were legislative in character, and gave to
the Railway Company tle right and privilege of using the
streets of the City for a period of twenty-five years; that
to compel their operation at unremunerative rates is to
take the property of the Company without due process
of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
insistence on the part of the City is that under the controlling laws of Ohio, in force when these ordinances were
passed and accepted, and the terms of the ordinances,
binding contracts were created, obligating the City, which
had authority from the State for that purpose, to permit
the operation by the Company upon the streets of the
City for the period of twenty-five years upon the terms
and conditions set forth in the ordinances.
That a city, acting under state authority, may in matters of proprietary right make binding contracts of the
-nature contained in these ordinances, is well established
by the adjudications of this court. Vicksburg v. Vicksburg
Waterworks Co., 206 U. S. 496.
Whether these ordinances constituted such contracts
depends upon the proper construction of the statutes of
Ohio in force at the time, and the terms of the ordinances
in question.
It is conceded that the statutes of Ohio regulating this
matter are substantially the same as those set forth in the
margin of the report of the decision of this court in Cleveland v. Cleveland City Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 517. After the
consideration therein given them, it would be superfluous
to state them again or to undertake to repeat the reasons
which impelled the decision of the court. In the Cleveland
Case this court held that upon acceptance of the ordinance
it became a binding contract, governed by the rates of

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

fare authorized to be charged during the period of twentyfive years for which the ordinance ran; that the rates
contracted for became binding upon the city, and could
not be altered by subsequent municipal action consistently with the constitutional rights of the railway
company. Summning up the matter, this court said: "In
reason, the conclusion that contracts were engendered,
would seem to result from the fact that the provisions as
to rates of fare were fixed in ordinances for a stated time
and no reservation was made of a right to alter, that by
those ordinances existing rights of the corporations were
surrendered; benefits were conferred upon the public, and
obligations were imposed upon the corporations to continue those benefits during the stipulated time. When, in
addition, we consider the 3pecific reference to limitations
of time which the ordinances contained, and the fact that a
cwritten acceptance by the corporations of the ordinances
was required, we can see no escape from the conclusion,
that the ordinances were intended to be agreements binding upon both parties definitely fixing the rates of fare
which might be thereafter charged." (194 U. S. 536.)
While the precise question now involved was not presented to the court in Interurban Railway & Terminal
Co. v. Public Utilities Commission,.98 Ohio St. 287, s. c. 16
Ohio Law Reporter, 447, it is evident that the Supreme
Court of Ohio takes the same view of the effect of such
ordinances as was declared by this court in the Cleveland
Case. In the opinion in the Interurban Railway Case the
previous Ohio cases, as Well as the decisions of this court,
are reviewed and the conclusion as to the effect of the
Ohio statutes is in accord with that announced by this
court.

The ordinances involved in this case are specific in their
terms, and in the so-called Blanket Franchise Ordinance
they obligate the Company during the life of the franchise
to furnish adequate and efficient service and first-class,

COLUMBUS RY. & POWER CO. v. COLUMBUS. 409
391).

Opinioni of the Court.

conunodious cars for the accommodation of its patrons.
The Company is authorized to charge certain fares during
the term named, and no more. It is required to run cars
upon certain streets, not in excess of certain intervals.
Upon the expiration of the franchise the Company, unless
a further renewal be granted, is obligated to remove its
tracks, etc., from the streets of the City, leaving the same
in good condition.
In the Central Market Franchise Ordinance the time
was fixed for the running of the cars, and the size of the
trains was regulated. The Company was obligated to
pay the City 2% of the gross receipts from local passenger
fares during the 'term of the franchise. The grant was
expressly limited to twenty-five years. Upon the expiration of that period the City had a right to purchase upon
giving notice two years before the expiration of the term
of its intention to do so. We can have no doubt that
under the authority of the laws referred to and in view of
the terms of the ordinances in qucstion and the acceptances by the grantees the City of Columbus made valid
and binding contracts with the Companies, binding for
the term of twenty-five years. By these contracts,
obligatory alike upon the City and the Company, the
City granted the right to use the streets and the Company bound itself to furnish the contemplated service at
the rates of fare fixed in the ordinances. We cannot agree
with the contention of the appellant that these were
permissive franchises, granted and accepted'with the
right upon the part of the Company to abandon the uses
and purposes for which the franchises were granted because the rates fixed became unremunerative as alleged in
the amended bill. The authority under which the City
acted came from the State, and was granted by proper
statutes passed for that purpose. The contracts were
made between the City and the Company, and became
mutually binding for the period named in the ordinances.

OCTOBER 'Tll, M, 1918.
Opinion oF the (,ourt.

249 U. S.

This ease (loes not invol%(! the rejedie;s which may be
ilnvoked agaiisit a stret railway company which is or may
becomc iisolviit because of conditions arising since it
eitered into a given contract.. The Company seeks now
by its own action to terminate the contracts, still binding
upon it by their terms as to rates of fare to be charged,
and seeks to have the aid of a court of equity by enjoining the City from any further requirement of service under
them.
There is no showing that the contracts have become
hipossible of perfornance. Nor is there any allegation
establishing the fact that taking the whole term together
the contracts will be necessarily unprofitable. This case
is not like the Dener Water Works Case, 246 U. S. 178, and
the Detroit United Railway Case, 248 U. S. 429, in both of
which the franchise to use the streets of the city had ex)ir(ed by limtitation, and it was sought to require continued
operation of a waterworks system in the one case and in
the other of a street railway system, under rates which
would afford no adequate return to the companies. In
this case the Company seeks the aid of a court of equity
to avoid contracts duly made and entered into while the
same are yet in force.
We are unable to find in the allegations in this bill any
statement of facts which absolves the Company from the.
continued obligation of its contracts unless the facts to
which. we have referred bring the case, as is contended,
witlhin the doctrine of vis major, justifying the Company
in its atteml)t to surrender its franchise, and be absolved
from further obligation.
We come then to consider whether the amended bill
shows the happening of an event or events which have
released the Comlpany from the obligations of the contract, and atilIn'rized it to cancel the same upon the
SUrTender o1f its riuihise. .husiifica ion for that course is
said to exist ill liw c'ditiolls foll)wing the World War

COLUMBUS RY. & POWER CO. r. COLUMBUS. 411
399.

Opinion of the Court..

and resulting therefrom, particularly, in the great increase
in wages by the arbitral award of the War Labor Board
which was due to the necessity of meeting the high cost of
living as a direct result of war. conditions. This, it is
contended, presents a situation that made the subsequent
keeping of the contract practically impossible except at a
ruinous loss to the Company. It is insisted that the
principle recognized by this court in The Kronprinzessin
Cecilie, 244 U. S. 12, when applied to this case, shows the
existence of conditions excusing the performance of the
contract. In that case it was held that the master and
owner of the German steamship Kronprinzessin Cecilie
were justified in apprehending that she would be seized as
a prize if she completed her voyage to Plymouth and
Cherbourg on the eve of the Wax, and her return to this
country was a reasonable and justifiable precaution in
view of the situation; that there was no liability for the
shipments of gold agreed to be carried in that case; that
the contract, not making an exception in the event of war
intervening before delivery of the cargo, the circumstances showing peril of belligerent capture afforded an
implied exception to the carrier's undertaking.
Much reliance is had by the appellant on the language
used by Mr. Justice Jackson speaking for this court in
Chiago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Hoyt, 149 U. S.
1, 14, 15, wherein it was said: "There can be no question
that a party may by an absolute contract bind himself
or itself to perform things which subsequently become
impossible, or pay damages for the nonperformance,
and such construction is to be put upon an unqualified
undertaking, where the event which causes the impossibility might have been anticipated and guarded against
in the contract, or where the impossibility arises from the
act or default of the I)romisor. But where the event is
of such a character that it cannot be reasonably supposed
to have been in the contemplation of the contracting

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

parties when -the contract was made, they. will not be
held bound by general words, which, though large enough

to include, were not used with reference to the possibility
of the particular contingency which afterwards happens."
Particular reliance is had upon the last sentence of the
paragraph just quoted. This language was used in interpreting a contract of doubtful import, as the context
shows. Such interpretation was made in view of the
situation of the parties at the time when the contract
was made, and in view of the nature of the undertaking
under consideration. It certainly was not intended to
question the principle' frequently declared in decisions
of this. court, that if a party charge himself with an obligation possible to be performed, he must abide by it
unless performance is rendered impossible b the act of
God, the law, or the other party. Unforeseen difficulties
will not excuse performance. Where the parties have
made no provision for a dispensation, the terms of the
contract must prevail. United States v. Gleason, 175
U. S. 588, 602, and authorities cited; Carnegie Steel Co.
v. United States, 240 U. S. 156, 164, 165. The latest
utterance of this court upon the subject is found in Day
v. United States, 245 U. S. 159, in which it was said:
"One who makes a contract never can be absolutely certain that he will be able to perform it when the time
comes, and the ery essence of it is that he takes the risk
within the limits of his undertaking. The modem cases
may have abated somewhat the absoluteness of the older
ones in determining the scope of the undertaking by the
literal meaning of the words alone. The Kronprinzessin
Cecilie, 244 U. S.12, 22. But when the scope of the undertaking is fixed, that is merely another way of saying
that the contractor takes the risk of the obstacles to
that extent."
In the present case the terms of the contract are not
doubtful. The term for which the Company was given

COLUMBUS RY. &VPOWER CO. r. COLUMBUS.
399.

413

Opinion of the Court.

the right to use the streets of the City was definitely
stated, and the terms, including the rates of fare which
the Company might charge, were explicitly laid down.
There is no occasion to interpret general terms in the
light of the intention of the parties or the circumstances
of the case.
In the Kronprinzessin Cecilie Case the unexpected
event which excused performance was the imminent
danger of the capture of the vessel by a belligerent which
would have ended the possibility of performing the contract.
In Metropolitan Water Board v. Dick, Kerr & Co., Ltd.,
decided by the House of Lords November 26, 1917, [19181
A. C. 119, a firm of contractors contracted with a Water
Board to construct a reservoir to be completed within
six years, subject to a proviso that if by reason of any
difficulties, impediments, or obstructions howsoever occasioned the contractor should, in the opinion of the engineer,
have been unduly: delayed or impeded in the completion
of the contract, it should be lawful for the engineer to
grant an extension of time for completion. By a notice
given by the Ministry of Munitions in February, 1916,
in exercise of the powers conferred by the Defence of the
Realm Acts and Regulations, the contractors. were required to cease work on their contract, which they did.
It was held that the provision for extending the time did
not apply to the prohibition of the Ministry; that the
interruption created by the prohibition was of such a.
character and duration as to make the contract when
resumed a different contract from the contract when
broken off, and that it had ceased to. be operative. In
that case there was a direct intervention of tl e power of
the Government, a feature not appearing in the case now
under consideration.
It is undoubtedly true that the breaking out of the
World War was not contemplated, nor was the subsequent

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

action of the War Labor Board within the purview of the
parties when the contract was made. That there might
be a rise in the cost of labor, and that the contract might
at some part of the period covered become. unprofitable
by reason of strikes or the necessity for higher wages might
reasonably have been within their contemplation when
the contract was made and provisions made accordingly.
There is no showing in the bill that the War or the award
of the War Labor Board necessarily prevented the performance of the contract. Indeed, as we have said, there
is no showing, as in the nature of things there cannot be,
that the performance of the contract, takirg all the years
of the term together, will prove unremunerative. We are
unable to find here ,the intervention of that superior force
which ends the obligation of a valid contract by preventing
its performance, It may be, and taking the allegations
of the bill to be true, it undoubtedly is, a case of .a hard
bargain. But equity does not relieve from hard bargains
simply because they are such. It may be that the efficiency of the service and fairness in dealing with the
Company which performs such important and necessary
service ought to require an advance in rates; such was the
strongly. announced opinion of the War Labor Board.
But these and .kindred considerations address themselves
to the duly constituted authorities having the control of
the subject-matter.
We reach the conclusion that the District Court was
right in holding that this bill presented no grounds absolving the Company from its contract, and justifying the
surrender of its franchise. It follows that the decree is
Affirmed.

