OC'OBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

MISSOURI & ARKANSAS

249 U. S.

LUMBER & MINING

COMPANY v. GREENWOOD DISTRICT OF SEBASTIAN COUNTY, ARKANSAS, ET AL.
.ERROR TO THE DISTRICT.COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 149.

Submitted January 17, 1.)l9.-Decided March 3,1919.

A revivor to escape the statute of limitations adds no new efficacy to a
judgment in respect of the power of the legislature to stop the further
running of interest. P. 172.
A judgment of the United States Circuit Court, based on non-interestbearing county warrants, provided for interest at a specified rate on
the amount of the judgment until paid. A later act of the legislature
declared that thereafter judgments on such warrants should bear no
interest. Held, consistent with the contract clause and due process.
Id. Morley v. Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co., 146 U. S. 162.
Interest on judgments allowed by statute merely is not contractual
but a penalty or liquidated damages. P. 173.
0
Quwre: Is this true of a judgment based on a contract stipulating for
interest? Id.
Affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John H. Vaughan and Mr. B. R. Datidson for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Thomas B. Pryor for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLDs delivered the opinion of the
court.
Article XVI, ยง 1, Constitution of Arkansas (1874), declares: "Nor shall any county, city, town or other municipality ever issue any interest-bearing evidences of in-

MISSOURI & ARK. CO. v. SEBASTIAN COUNTY.
170.

171

Opinion of the Court.

debtedness." During 1889 (or about that time) Sebastian
County, for the benefit of Greenwood District, issued
certain non-interest- bearing warrants payable "out of
any money in the Treasury appropriated for ordinary
purposes" of which plaintiff in error became lawful holder
and owner. It sued upon them in the United States Circuit Court, Western :District of Arkansas, and obtained
a judgment,. January 26, 1891, for $13,703.29, "with
interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum from this
date until paid together with all its costs in and about
this case laid-out and expended." So far as not satisfied,
this was revived in 1900 and again in 1910; and at different dates from 1896 to 1914 the county made payments
thereon aggregating its face value together with six per
cent. interest reckoned to March 21, 1893, and all costs.
An act of the Arkansas legislature, approved March 21,
1893, [Acts Ark. 1893, p. 145] provides: "No judgment
rendered or to be rendered against any county in the. State
on county warrants or other evidence of county indebtedness shall bear any interest after the passage of this act";
and relying upon this inhibition the county claimed that
the above-mentioned payments fully discharged the judgment against it. The:reupon, May 23, 1916, plaintiff in
error petitioned the court below for a mandamus to compel
payment of alleged accrued interest. Answering, the
county denied further liability and then asked for an
order requiring that the judgment be satisfied of record.
The trial court refused a m..andamus and directed satisfaction as prayed. Whether plaintiff in error's rights
under the Federal Constitution would be violated by
giving effect to the statute is the only question presented
for our consideration. The Supreme Court of the State
sustained its validity in Read v. Mississippi County, 69
Arkansas, 365, where the precise points here involved were
presented.
The two revivals in 1900 and 1910 kept the judgment

OCTOBER 'IERI(,

191S.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

.live and permitted its enforcement beyond the periods
fixed by statutes of limitation. Their entry gave it no
greater efficacy than it possessed when first rendered.
Plaintiff in error maintains that the challenged act conflicts with ยง 10, Art. I, of the Constitution and also the
Fourteenth Amendment forbidding a State from depriving any person of property without due process of law;
but we think the contrary is settled by our opinion in
Morley v: Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co., 146
U. S. 162, 168, 171. There the judgment directed that
interest should accrue from its entry without mentioning
any rate, the statutory one then being seven per centum;
later another act fixed six per centum for the future and
the debtor claimed benefit of it while the creditor maintained that to permit this would violate both the contract clause and Fourteenth Amendment. Through
Mr. Justice Shiras we said (p. 168): "After the cause of
action, whether a tort or a broken contract, not itself
prescribing interest till payment, shall have been merged
into a judgment, whether interest shall accrue upon the
judgment is a matter not of contract between the parties,
but of legislative discretion, which is free; so far as the
Constitution of the United States is concerned, to provide
for interest as a penalty or liquidated damages for the
non-payment of the judgment, or not to do so. When such
provision, is made by statute, the owner of the judgment
is' of course, entitled 'to the,interest so prescribed until
payment is received, or until the State shall, in the exercise of 'its discretion, declare that such interest shall be
changed or cease to accrue. Should the statutory darn'ages for non-payment of a judgment be determined by a
State, either in whole or in part, the owner of a judgment
will be entitled to receive and have a vested right in the
damages which shall- have accrued up to the date of the
legislative change; but after that time his rights as to interest as damages are, a. when he first obtained his judg-

* MISSOURI & ARK. CO. v. SEBASTIAN COUNTY.
170.

173

Opinion of the Court.

ment, just what the legislature chooses to declare. He
has no contract whatever on the subject with the defendant in the judgment, and his right is to receive, and the
defendant's obligation is to pay, as damages, just what
the State chooses to prescribe. . . (p. 171). The
discretion exercised by the legislature in prescribing what,
if any, damages shall be paid by way of compensation
for delay in the payment of judgments is based on reasons
of public policy, and is altogether outside the sphere of
private contracts. . . . The further- contention of
the plaintiff in error, that he has been deprived of his
property without due process of law, can be more readily
disposed of. If, as we have seen; the plaintiff has actually
received on account of his judgment all that he is entitled to receive, he cannot be said to have been deprived
of his property." See Barnitz v. Beverly, 163 U. S. 118,
129.
It is insisted that as the judgment now under consideration specified a definite interest rate while the one in
Morley v. Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co., supra,
did not, the doctrine there approved is inapplicable.
To this we cannot assent; mere recital of a particular rate
does not change the nature of the charge as a penalty or
liquidated damages.
It should be noted that the county warrants, upon which
plaintiff in error sued, bore no interest; if the parties had
lawfully stipulated therefor, a different question would
have been presented.
The judgment of the court below is
A.Irmed.

