UNITED STATES.
SKINNER & EDDY CORP. ,,.

557

Syllabus.

SKINNER & EDDY CORPORATION v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 215. Argued March 11, 1919.-Decided May 5,1919.
Where a suit to enjoin the enforcement of an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission is based ,upon the ground that the order
exceeded the statutory powers of the Commission and, hence, is
void, the courts may entertain jurisdiction notwithstanding no
attempt has been made by the plaintiff to obtain redress from the
Commission itself. P. 562.
Where rates allowed by the Commission in a proceeding initiated by
carriers for relief from the long and short haul clause were later
increased as a result of orders made when the proceeding was reopened on the application of a state commission and a merchants
association, held, that the new orders were to be regarded as resting
upon the original petition of the carriers, so that, under the jurisdictional Act of October 22, 1913, a suit to enjoin their enforcement
was properly brought in a judicial district where one of the carriers$
a party defendant, had its residence. P. 563.
The, clause in § 4 of the Commerce Act, as amended June 18, 1910,
providing that when a railroad carrier shall, in competition with a
water route, reduce rates between competitive points, it shall not be
permitted to increase them unless, after hearing by the Commission, it shall be found that the proposed increase rests upon changed
conditions other than elimination of water competition, has no
application where the reduction was with the approval of the Commission, ordered after hearing, upon application by the carrier for
relief from the long and short haul clause. 1. 564.
Held, that, in this case, changed conditions ."other than. the elimination of water competition," were found by the Commission. P. 569.
An order under § 4 of the act, granting relief from the long and short
haul clause, is subject to future modification by the Commission
without any application from the carrier. P. 570.
Affrmed.

THEm cse is stated in the opinion.

OCIO)BER TERM, .1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Mr. Joseph N. Teal, with whom Mr. William C. McCulloch, Mr. L. B. Stedman and Mr. W. E. Creed were
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. A ssistant A torney General Frierson for the United
States.
Mr. Albert L. Hopkins, with whom Mr. P. J. Farrell
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. John F. Finerty, with whom Mr. E. C. Lindley,
Mr. M. L. Countryman, Mr. Charles Donnelly, Mr. 0. W.
Dynes and Mr. A. C. Spencer were on the brief, for the
appellee railroad companies.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The last paragraph of § 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended by Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 8,
36 Stat. 539, 547, declares that: "Whenever a carrier by
railroad shall in competition with a water route or routes
reduce the rates on the carriage of any species of freight
to or from competitive points, it shall not be permitted
to increase such rates unless after hearing by the Interstate Commerce Commission it shall be found that such
proposed increase rests upon changed conditions other
than the elimination of water competition."
On August 21, 1916, Skinner & Eddy Corporation
brought this suit in the District Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon to enjoin an increase
in carload rates on iron and steel products from Pittsburgh to Seattle. The United- States, the Commission,
and sixteen railroads were joined as defendants. The
bill charged that the action of the carriers in increasing

SKINNER & EI)I)Y CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
557.

559

Opinion of the Court.

their rates and that of the Commission in authorizing

such increase violated the above provision of the Coimerce Act and, being beyond their respective powers,
was void. The relief asked against the carriers was to
prevent the collection of the proposed increased rates
until the "Commission shall have held a hearing to determine whether the proposed increases rest upon changed
conditions other than the elimination of water competition." The relief asked against the Commission was to
prevent its taking any steps to enforce certain orders
"so far as the same permit" such increases. An application for an interlocutory injunction heard before three
judges on December 29, 1916, was denied; and later the
bill and a supplemental bill, filed December 16, 1916,
were dismissed on the ground that they do not state
any cause of action. The case comes here by direct
appeal. The essential facts are these:
After the decision by this court in Intermountain Rate
Cases, 234 U. S. 476, and while the Sacramento- Case
(United States v. Merchants & Manufacturers Traffic

Association, 242 U. S. 17S) was pending in the District
Court, carriers forming -connecting lines between Pittsburgh and Seattle applied to the Commission in the
same proceeding for further modification of Amended
Fourth Section Order No. 124, so as to permit a reduction

in carload rates on iron and steel products from Pittsburgh to Seattlewithout making such reduced rates
applicable to intermediate points of destination. An
order granting leave for a reduction from 80 cents 1 to
65 cents per 100 pounds was entered March 1, 1916.
Rates on Iran and Steel Articles, 38 I. C. C. 237. The
carriers soon thereafter filed tariffs making that reduction
'80 cents was the' specific published rate; but the combination of
the Pittsburgh-Chicago rate of 18.9 cents and the Chicago-Seattle
rate of 55 cents was 73.9 cents, and it was at this rate that the traffic
from Pittsburgh actually moved.

OCIOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

effective April 10, 1916; and on that date, the 65-cent
rate became operative.
During March, 1916, two applications had been made
to the Commission in the same proceeding on behalf of
shippers to reopen for further consideration other fourth
section applications of carriers concerning westbound
transcontinental rates and for modification of orders
issued thereon. The petitioners for such modification
were the Spokane Merchants' Association and the Railroad Commission of Nevada, which had theretofore taken
an active part in the proceedings (Railroad Commission
of Nevada v. Southern Pacific Co., 21 1. C. C. 329; Commodity Rates to Pacific Coast Terminals, 32 I. C. C. 611).
Their prayer was for removal of the existing discrimination in transcontinental freight rates against the intermountain territory and in favor of the Pacific Coast
ports. The ground alleged for seeking the modification
was that by reason of slides in the Panama Canal and the
increased demand for shipping due to the World War,
water competition, which had theretofore been held to
justify lower rates to the Pacific Coast ports, had in large
part disappeared. Thereupon the Commission reopened
on April 1, 1916, these 'applications, including that on
which was entered the order of March 1, 1916, respecting
iron and steel rates from Pittsburgh to Seattle; and a
hearing was ordered "respecting the changed conditions
which are alleged in -justification of a modification of the
Commission's orders."
None of the railroads had requested the reopening of
the applications or the hearing; and when it was held,
all opposed further modification of the transcontinental
rtes. No increased rates were proposed by them; and
no specific increased rates were considered by the Commission. The petitioners introduced evidence respecting
the changed conditions as a basis for modifying the
several fourth section orders. On June 5, 1916, the Coin-

SKINNER & EDDY CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
557.

561

Opinion of the Court.

mission filed a report (Reopening Fourth Section Applications, 40 I. C. C. 35) in which it found that while the
Panama Canal had been meanwhile reopened there was
not then "any effective water competition between the
two coasts" or likely to be any in the near future, and
that "the war and an unparalleled rise in prices for ocean
transportation have so changed-the situation as to transform a relation of rates which was justified when established to one that is now unjustly discriminatory against
intermediate points." It found also that these conditions
were temporary. An order (amended July 13, 1916) was
then entered, effective September 1, 1916, rescinding
those previously entered on the several applications of
carriers, including that of March 1, 1916, authorizing
the 65-cent Pittsburgh-Seattle rate; and the carriers
were directed to reduce the degree of discrimination then
existing in favor of Pacific Coast ports as against intermediate territory.
Upon entry of this order the carriers filed tariffs effective September 1, 1916, raising, among others, the
Pittsburgh-Seattle iron and steel rates from 65 cents to 94
cents. Promptly, on August 4, 1916, Skinner & Eddy
Corporation protested, requested that the tariffs be
suspended until a hearing could be had thereon, and
alleged that the proposed increase violated, as later set
forth in its bill of complaint, the last paragraph of the
fourth section. Their request was not then granted.
Thereafter, by action of the Commission and the carriers,
not necessary to detail, the effective date of the tariff
fixing the 94-cent rate was 'postponed to December 30,
1916; and meanwhile these tariffs were, with consent of
the Commission, canceled upon the understanding that
new tariffs fixing a 75-cent rate effective on that day
would be filed. When the 75-cent rate was filed, Skinner
& Eddy Corporation again protested on the same ground
and made, as theretofore, the same request for a sus-

•OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

pension of the tariffs and a hearing; and again the request
was not granted.
First. The defendants contend that the District Court
did not have jurisdiction of the subject-matter of this
suit; because orders entered in a fourth section proceeding
cannot be assailed in the courts; at least, not until after
a remedy has been sought under §§ 13 and 15 of the Act
to Regulate Commerce. This contention proceeds ap'
parently upon a misapprehension of plaintiff's position.
If plaintiff had sought relief against a rate or practice
alleged to be unjust because unreasonably high or discriminatory, the remedy must have been sought primarily by proceedings before the Commission, Loomis v.
Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 43, 50; Texas & Pacific,
Ry. Co. v. American Tie & Timber Co., 234 U. S. 138, 146;
The Minnesota Rate- Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 419; Robinsan
v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 506; Baltimore
& Ohio R. R. Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481; and
the finding thereon would have been conclusive, unless
there was lack of substantial evidence, some irregularity in
the proceedings, or some error in the application of rules
of law, Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S.
457, 482; Pennsylvania Co. v. United States, 236 U. S. 351,
361 ; Los Angeles Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294, 311; Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 231 U. S. 423, 440;
Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282, 297298; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541. But plaintiff does not contend
that 75 cents is an unreasonably high rate or that it is
discriminatory or that there was mere error in the action
of the Commission. The contention is that the Commission has exceeded its statutory powers; and that, hence,
the order is void. ' In such a case the courts have jurisdiction of suits to enjoin the enforcement of an order,.
even if the plaintiff has not attempted to secure redress
in a proceeding beforc the Commission. Interstate Corn-

SKINNER & EDDY CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
557.

53

Opinion of the Court.

merce Commission v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, 49; Louisiana & Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, 209 Fed. Rep.
244, 251; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. V. Interstate Commerce Commission, 194 Fed. Rep. 449, 451. The Sacramento Case, supra,was a case of this character. Compare

Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashille
R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 92; Southern Pacific Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 433.

The District

Court properly assumed jurisdiction of this suit.
I Second. The defendants contend, also, that if the subjectmatter was within the jurisdiction of a District Court of
the United States, it was not within that of Oregon.
The objection is based upon the Act of October 22, 1913,
c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219, which declares: "The venue of
any suit hereafter brought to enforce, suspend, or set
aside, in whole or in part, any order of the Interstate
Conunerce Commission shall be in the judicial district
wherein is the residence of the party or any of the parties

upon whose petition the order was made." And it is
asserted that the parties upon whose petition the order was
made, are the Merchants' Association of Spokane, a resident of the Eastern District of Washington, and the Railroad Commission of Nevada, a resident of the District

of Nevada. The applications of these parties, filed in
March, 1916, were doubtless instrumental in securing a
reopening of the proceedings which resulted in the order
complained of. But the proceedings in which the order
was made were the original applications of carriers for
relief under'the fourth section. The report and the order
are entitled, "In the Matter of Reopening Fourth Section
Applications." One of the c6riers which had made such
application-for relief from the provisions of the fourth
section was a resident of Oregon, namely, the OregonWashington Railroad and Navigation Company; and as
it was joined as defendant in the suit, the District Court
for Oregon had jurisdiction over the parties.

tWcTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Third. The main contention of plaintiff is that, as the
carriers had in 1916 reduced the rate from 80 cents to
65 cents, neither the carriers nor the Commission had
power to -increase, the rate without a prior finding by the
Commission upon proper hearing "that such proposed
increase rests upon changed conditions other than the
elimination of water competition;" and that no such hearing had been had orz finding made.
In construing this provision it is important to bear in
mind the limits of the Commission's control over rates.
Neither the Act to Regulate Commerce nor any amendiuent thereof has taken from the carriers the power which
they originally possessed, to initiate rates; that is, the
power, in the first instance, to fix rates or to increase or
-o reduce them. Legislation of Congress confers now
upon the Commission ample powers to prevent by direct
action the exaction of excessively high rates. The original
act, proceeding upon the common-law rule which prohibits public carriers from charging more than reasonable
rates, gave the Commission power to declare illegal one
unduly high; but even after- such a determination the
Commission lacked the power to fix the rate which should
be charged. Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacifw
Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184,
196-197; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Cincinnati,
New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Ca., 167 U. S. 479;
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Alabama Midland Ry.
Co., 168 U. S. 144, 161. Effective control was not secured
until the Act of 1906-had given to the Commission the
By .t of August 9, 1917, c. 50, § 4, 40 Stat. 270, 272, it was provided that until January 1, 1920, no increased rate or fare shall be filed
ezeept after approval thereof has been secured from the Commission.
On the 2Sth day of December, 1917, the Government took control
of the railroads, as a war measure, under Act of August 29, 1916, c.
418. 39 Stat. 619. 645. Proclamation of December 26, 1917, 40 Stat.
1733, 1734.

SKINNER & EDDY CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
557.

565

Opinion of the Court.

power to fix, after such hearing, the rate which should be
charged; InterstateCommerce Commission v. Humboldt S. S.
Co., 224 U. S.474, 483; and the Act of 1910 had given it
power to suspend, during investigation, tariffs for new
rates, and placed upon the carrier the burden of proof
to establish the reasonableness of the increased rates.
M. C. Kiser Co. v. Central of Georgia Ry. Co., 236 Fed.
Rep. 573.

Congress, however, steadfastly withheld from the Commission power to prevent by direct action the charging
of unreasonably low rates. The common law did not
recognize that the rate of a common carrier night be so
low as to conftitute a wrong; and Congress has declined
to declare such a rule. Despite the original Act to Regulate Commerce and all amendments, railroads still have
power to fix rates as low as they choose and to reduce
rates when they choose.' The Commission's power over
them in this respect extends no further than to 6-iscourage
the making of .unduly !ow rates by applying deterrents.
One such deterrent is found in the fact that low rates,
because voluntarily established by the carrier, may be
accepted by the Coimnission as evidence that other rates,
actual or proposed, for comparable service are unreasonably high. Board of Trade of Carrollton, Ga., v. Central
of Georgia Ry. Co., 28 I. C. C. 154, 164; Sheridan Chamber
of Commerce v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co.,
26 I. C. C. 638, 647. Compare Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. United States, 238 U. S. 1, 11 et seq. The
voluntary making of unremuneratively low rates in important traffic may also tend to induce the Commission to
.resist appeals of carriers for general rate increases on the
ground of financial necessities. But the main source of
the Commission's influence to prevent excessively low
Subject only to the requirement of notice as provided in § 6 of the
Act to Regulate, Commerce, as amended.

OCTOBER TERM, 191&
Opinion qf the Court.

249 U. S.

rates lies in its power to prevent unjust discrimination.
Compare Houston, East & West Texas Ry. Co. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342. The order prohibiting the unjust
discrimination, however, leaves the carrier free to continue the lower rate; the compulsion being that if the low
rate is retained, the rate applicable to the locality or
article discriminated against must be reduced. That is,
the carrier may remove the discrimination either by raising the lower rate to the relative level of the higher, or
by lowering the higher to the relative level of the lower,
or by equalizing conditions through fixing rates at some
intermediate point. American Express Co. v. Caldwell,
244 U. S. 617, 624.
A special group of cases in which the Commission may
indirectly prevent unduly low rates through its power to
prevent unjust discrimination is that provided for by the
long and short haul clause. It was enacted to remedy
one large class of discriminations by creating a legislative
presumption that the charge of more for a short haul
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions
.than for a longer distance over the same line in the same
direction was unjust. As originally enacted, the provision
was construed to authorize the carrier to determine primarily whether the-required dissimilarity of circumstances
and conditions existed and also to authorize the acceptance
of competitive conditions as a justification of a lower rate
for the longer distance. So construed, the provisions
proved inefficacious, and the act was amended in 1910 by
striking out the "substantially similar circumstances and
conditions" clause and making the prohibition absolute
except to "the extent to which such designated. common
carrier may be relieved from the operation of this section"
by the Commission. Intermountain Rate Cases, supra.
But the lack of power to prevent by direct action excessively low rates remains; the carrier still having the option,
if relief from the operation of the fourth section is denied,

SKINNER & EDDY CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
557.

5t67

Opinion of the Court.

to keep in effect the low rate to the more distant point
by lowering the rates to intermediate points.
The last paragraph of § 4, here in question, which was
added by the Act of 1910, was designed to prevent the
railroads from killing water competition by making excessively low rates. But again Congress refrained from prohibiting the carrier to reduce the rate and declined to
confer upon the Commission power to prevent by direct
action a reduction. The act still leaves the carrier absolute!y free to make as low a rate as it chooses; and merely
provides another deterrent, in declaring that, if the rate
is once reduced in competition with a water route or
routes, it cannot, thereafter, be increased, "unless after
hearing by the Interstate Commerce Commission it shall
be found that such proposed increase rests upon changed
conditions other than the elimination of water competition." This provision may become operative in any case
where there has been competition between a railr9ad and
a water line, inland or coastwise. But we have now to
determine merely whether the prohibition applies where
the rates in question were reduced with the approval of
the Commission given after hearing, by order entered
upon application of the carrier for relief from the operation
of the fourth section.
The language of the paragraph is general and read
alone might compel that construction. But it may not
be read alone. It must be construed in the light of the
purpose of its enactment, of the earlier paragraphs of
§ 4, and of other sections in the Act to Regulate Commerce designed to prevent unjust discrimination. The
specific purpose of § 4 was to prevent discrimination by
charging less for the longer haul, unless in 'the opinion
of the Commission the circumstances make such action
just. Discrimination, just when sanctioned, may become
most unjust. Recognizing this fact, Congress provided
that the judgment of the Commission should be exercised

)CT1OBER TERAII, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

"from time to time" to determine "the extent to which
[the]

.

.

.

carrier may be relieved from the operation

of this section." In other words, the leave granted is not
for all time. It is revocable at any thne, eitherbecause
it was improvidently granted or because new conditions
have arisen which make its continuance inequitable.
The specific purpose of the last paragraph of § 4 is to
ensure and preserve water competition; to prevent competition that kills. • A reduction made under the authority
of a fourth section order after full hearing must have
been found by the Commission to have been reasonably
necessary in order to preserve competition between the
rail and- the water carrier. A reduction so made is not
within the reason of the prohibition declared by the last
paragraph. Transportation conditions are not static;
the oppressor of today may tomorrow be the oppressed.
And in order to preserve, competition between rail and
water carriers it is necessary that the Commission's
,power to approve a modification of rates be as broad as
it is to approve a modification in order to prevent unjust
discrimination. Even a literal reading of §4 would'not require that the prohibition contained in the last paragraph
be extended to reductions made with the approval of
the Commission. The preceding paragraph declares
that "the commission may from time to time prescribe
the extent to which such designated common carrier
may be relieved from the operation of this section." The
last paragraph is a part of the section. Why should not
the Conuission's power to relieve be extended to it?
The construction contended for by plaintiff would
,ather ensure monopoly than preserve competition. If
a rail rate reduced in competition with a water route fQr
the .vpwed-:'iurpose of preserving competition by rail
should restlt, -contrpry to. the Commission's expectations,
in eliminating the water competition, because so low "as
to drive the water carrier out of business, then the pro-

SKINNER & EDDY CORP. ,,. UNITED STATES.
557.

569

Opinion of the Court.

hibitively low rate would have to be continued permanently and other water competition be thereby prevented
from arising; unless, perchance, some changed condition
should develop which might make removal of the bar
possible. Or, if the reduction in the rail rate, sanctioned
by the Comnmission under the fourth section as not unjustly discriminating'against intermediate points, because
forced upon the rail carriers by oppressive water competition designed to destroy its business to the port, should
become thereafter unjustly discriminatory, because the
water carrier, destroyed by its own rate cutting, abandoned the route, still the low rail -rate and resulting
discrimination would have to continue. Only compelling
language could cause us to impute to Congress the intention to produce results so absuard; and the language
of the last paragraph of § 4 is clearly susceptible of the
more reasonable construction contended for by defendants.
Fourth. The defendants further contend that, even if
the prohibition of the last paragraph of § 4 be construed
to apply also where the reduction wag made with the authority of the Commission, the increase of the PittsburghSeattle rate to 75 cents is valid, because the finding of
the" Conmission complies with the prescribed condition
that the increased rate must rest "upon changed conditions other than the elimination of water Competition."
It found in terms that: "the conditions formerly existing
have materially, changed'; that "the withdrawal of
boats from this [coast to coast] service has not been on
account of the rates made by the rail carriers with which
the boats compete, but on account of slides in the Panama
Canal and the extraordinary rise in ocean freights";
that the substantial disappearance of water- competition
was merely temporary; that competing water carriers
"announced their intention ultimately to return to this
service" and "that the time of such return depended in

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opirion qf the Court.

249 U. S.

part upon the measure of the rates they would be able
to secure for this service in competition with the rail
lines." It is clear that the changed conditions so found
are something. other than the "elimination of water
competition" which Congress intended should not justify
raising the reduced rates. Compare American Insulated
Wire & Cable Co. v. Chicago & North Western Ry. Co.,
26 I. C. C. 415, 416.
Ffth. The plaintiff attacks, however, the validity of
the order of June 5, 1916 (amended July 13, 1916) also
on the ground that it was not made upon application of
the carrier-insisting that application by the carrier is
not only a prerequisite to the original granting of relief
under theIourth section, but also to the modification
from time to time by the Commission of the relief afforded. This court expressed in the Sacramento Case,
u.pra, at p. 187, its doubt whether such application was a
prerequisite even to the original granting of relief. It
is blear that application by the carrier is not a prerequisite
to modification. As shown above, oeders granting relief
under- the fourth section are not grants in Perpetuity.
Neither a carrier nor a favored community acquires
thereby vested rights. Necessarily .implied in each such
order is the term, "until otb!erwise ordered by the Commission"; and- the original application is always subject
to be reopened, as it was here.
The District Court did not err in dismissing the .bill
(and supplemental bill) on the merits; and its decree is
•
Az1rmed.

