WHITEHEAD v. GALLOWAY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

WHITEHEAD v. GALLOWAY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 184. Submitted January 23, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

Congress, having provided, through the Act of February 19, 1903,
c. 707, 32 Stat. 841, and the provisions of Mansfield's Digest as
thereby extended to the Indian Territory, that instruments affecting
the title to land, to be valid against subsequent purchasers for value,
should be recorded or filed in the office of the clerk or the deputy
clerk of the United States Court for the Indian Territory, at the
place of holding court in the recording district in which the land was
located, afterwards, by the Act of June 21, 1906, c. 3504, 34 Stat.
343, created and defined a new recording district, naming a place
for recording and for holding court therein, but an interval of some
days occurred between the date of the act and the time when a
deputy clerk was appointed and qualified for the new district and
opened the office for reception of instruments. Held, that the law
made no provision whereby during this interval a deed of land in
the new district might be filed in an older district in which the land
was previously located, and that a deed so filed was not constructive
notice to subsequent purchasers who bought several months after
the recording office in the new district was opened. P. 84.
The provision made by the Act of February 19, 1903, supra, for transfer of recorded instruments to the indices of new recording districts,
applied only to instruments recorded before the date of the act. Id.
153 Pac. Rep. 1101, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. S. Arnold for plaintiff in error, with whom Mr.
James E. Whitehead was on the brief, insisted that Congress could not have intended the Act of June 21, 1906,
to become immediately operative, before a deputy clerk
and ex officio recorder could be legally appointed, .could
qualify, secure his quarters and'records and open up his

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

office for the transaction of busin¢ ss. During such interval,
the law as it previously existed remained in force, and
with it plaintiff in error complied by filing in the older

district. It was impossible to record at Duncan before
the deputy clerk and ex officio recorder there had been
appointed, because, under the laws, suclh deputy alone
was qualified to act; and neither the clerk, marshal nor
judge could do so. Act of February 19, 1903, 32 Stat.
841., Furthermore, there was provision for transfer of
.records. Ib'. 842; First National Bank v. Keys, 229 U. S.
179. As to the peculiar functions of the deputy, counsel
also cited Acts of May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, §§ 30, 32, 38;
3, 4.
March 1, 1895, 28 Stat. 693, §§
Upon the right to record in the old district until the new
is organized: Lumpkin v. Muncey, 66 Texas, 311; O'Shea
v. Twohig, 9 Texas, 366; Clark v. Goss, 12 Texas, 395.
Distinguishing: Astor v. Wells, 4 Wheat. 466; Green v.
Green, 103 California) '108; Garrison v. Haydon, 1 Marsh.
J. J. 222.
Mr. H. A. Ledbetter for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a contest between claimants to the ownership
of a tract of land now part of Carter County, Oklahoma,
and prior to June 21, 1906, a part of the 20th Recording
District, Ryan, (Office of the Recording District) Indian
Territory. Thereafter it was in the 29th Recording District, Duncan (Office of the Recording District) Indian
Territory.
The facts so far as pertinent are:
On the 27th day of June, 1906, Wilburn Adams, who
held title to the land, made and delivered a deed for
the same to the plaintiff in error, Whitchead, which deed
was filed for record in the office of the 20th Recording Dis-

WHITEHEAD v. GALLOWAY.
79.

-

Opinion of the Court.

trict at Ryan, Indian Territory, on the 28th day of June,
1906, and was duly recorded. Afterwards Adams and wife
made a warranty deed of the same property to James 0.
Galloway, dated November 16, 1906, and recorded November 22, 1906, in the office of the 29th Recording District of the Indian Territory at Duncan. Galloway on
the 24th day of December, 1906, conveyed the same to
Winfield S. Pressgrove and his wife, which deed was recorded at Duncan. Pressgrove and wife executed to the
Travelers Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut,
a mortgage on the land dated March 22, 1907, recorded
April 5, 1907, in the office of the 29th Recording District
at Duncan, Indian Territory. Pressgrove and wife executed a mortgage to the Atkinson, Warren & Henley
Company, dated March 22, 1907, recorded April 24, 1907,
in the office of the 29th Recording District at Duncan.
On June 21, 1906, Congress passed an act (34 Stat.
343):
"That in addition to the places now provided by law
for holding courts in the southern judicial district of
Indian Territory courts shall be held in the town of Duncan, and all laws regulating the holding of the courts in
the Indian Territory shall be applicable to the said court
hereby created in the said town of Duncan.
"That the territory next hereinafter described shall
be known as recording district numbered twenty-nine,
beginning at a point where township line between townships two and three north reaches the cast boundary line
of Oklahoma Territory; thence east on said township
line twenty-four miles to where it intersects with range
line three and four west; thence south on said range line
twelve miles to where it intersects the base line between
townships one north and one south;. thence east along
said base line six miles to the range line between ranges
two and three west; thence south twelve miles along said
range line to the township line between townships two

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

and three south; thence west thirty miles along said township line to where it intersects with the east line of Oklahoma Territory; thence north along said line twenty-four
miles to the place of beginning; and the place of recording
and holding court in said district shall be Duncan."
Prior to the passage of this act of Congress the lands
involved in this case were located in the 20th Recording
District of the Indian Territory,, known as the. "Ryan
District." But this act made them a j'art of the 29th
Recording District, known as the "Duncan Recording
District." On June 30, 1906, C. M. Campbell, who was
then Clerk of the United States Court for the Southern
District of the Indian Territory, appointed C. N. Jackson
deputy clerk and ex-officio recorder for the newly-created
29th Recording District, with headquarters at Duncan.
C. N. Jackson took and subscribed the oath of office and
filed his bond on June 30, 1906, and his appointment was
duly approved by the United States Court at Ardmore
on the same day. He arrived at Duncan and first opened
his office on July 7, 1906, and the first entry made upon
the books was upon that date. No recording office was
opened at Duncan prior to July 7, 1906, when C. N. Jackson arrived and opened one.
From the time of the conveyance of the lands to Pressgrove (December 24, 1906) he has been in the actual
possession thereof.
The lower court and the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
decided in favor of Galloway and his successors, holding
that the recording of the deed, made to Whitehead, at
Ryan, was. not constructive notice to the subsequent
purchasers. (153 Pac. Rep. 1101; rehearing denied without opinion, 157 Pac. Rep. xxiii.)
At the time of the passage of the statute of June 21,
1906, another statute provided in effect (32 Stat. 841;
10 Fed. Stats., 1st ed.) p. 130):
That chapter twenty-seven of the Digest of the Statutes

WHITEHEAD v. GALLOWAY.
79.

Opinion of the Court.

of Arkansas, of 1884, be extended to the Indian Territory
so far as the same is applicable, and not inconsistent with
any law of Congress; that the clerk or deputy clerk of the
United States Court of each of the courts of the Territory
should be ex-officio recorder for his district and perform
the duties required of the recorder in the chapter of Mansfield's Digest, hereinafter referred to. The duty was
placed on each clerk or deputy clerk to record in the books
provided for the office all deeds, mortgages, etc. Instruments theretofore recorded with the clerk of the United
States Court for the Indian Territory, were not required
to be again recorded, but should be transferred to the
indexes without further cost, and that such records theretofore made should be of full force and effect. That
whenever in said chapter (Mansfield's Digest) the word
"county" occurs there should be substituted the word
"district," and wherever the words "State" or "State
of Arkansas" occur there should be substituted therefor
the words "Indian Territory," and wherever the words
"clerk" or "recorder" occur there should be substituted
the words "clerk or deputy clerk of the United States.
The statute further provides that all instrucourt."
ments of writing, the filing of which is provided by law,
should be recorded or filed in the office of the clerk or
deputy clerk at the place of holding court in the recording
district where said property may be located.
The provisions of Mansfield's Digest, which Congress
extended to the Indian Territory so far as applicable,
provide (Mansfield's Digest, 1884, c. 27, § 671):
"No deed, bond, or instrument of writing, for the
conveyance of any real estate, or by which the title thereto
may be affected in law or equity, hereafter made or executed, shall be good or valid against a subsequent purchaser of such real estate for a valuable consideration,
without actual notice thereof; or against any creditor of
the person executing such deed, bond, or instrument, ob-

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.'

249 U. S.

taining a judgment or decree, which by law may be a lien
upon such real- estate, unless such deed, bond, or instrument, duly executed and acknowledged, or approved, as
is or may be required by law, shall be filed for record in
tle office of the clerk and ex officio recorder of the county
where such -real estate may be situated."
Congress made no provision whereby deeds to lands
,in the new district were to be recorded at Ryan in the old
district pending the opening of, the office in the new
district at Duncan. The provision as to transfer of recorded instruments to the new indexes, 32 Stat. 842,
applied to instruments theretofore recorded. See First
National Bank v. Keys, 229 U. S. 179.
Cases cited by plaintiff in error, where statutes provide
for the organization of new cotnties, and holding that
until such new counties are organized the place for recording is the old county where the lands ax situated,
are not apposite. Congress itself declared and defined
the new Recording District, and the applicable provisions
of Mansfield's Digest provided that no conveyance*should
be constructive notice against a subsequent purchaser
unless such deed should be filed for record in the office
of the clerk and ex officio recorder of the district where
the real estate was situated. The statute is explicit, and
when Whitehead bought from Adams the requirement
of the law was plain that the .deed should be filed for
record at Duncan in the new district. See Astor v. Wells,
4 Wheat. 466. But, it is said, at the time of the conveyance to Whitehead, no office had been established at
Duncan. -This fact, however, did not continue Ryan as
the place for recording deeds for lands in the new district.
The requirements of the legislation are positive, making Duncan the place for filing the deed in the new Recording District where the lands are situated. The
plaintiff in error urges that until an office was opened at
Duncan it Was impossible to record a deed there. This

WHITEHEAD v. GALLOWAY.
79.

Opinion of the Court.

fact does present an anomalous situation, not to be
remedied, however, by judicial construction in derogation
of positive and controlling legislation.
Moreover, by the agreed statement of facts it appears
that a deputy clerk, who became ex officio recorder, was
appointed June 30, 1906, and opened his office for the
transaction of business at Duncan on July 7, 1906. The
conveyance from Adams to Galloway was made on November 16, 1906. Had Whitehead filed his deed for
record at Duncan after the recording office was opened
there and prior to November 16, 1906, Galloway and the
subsequent purchasers would have had constructive
notice by means of this record of the prior conveyance.
But all that Whitehead did was to file his deed at Ryan
after the land had become part of the Duncan district.
After the opening of the Duncan office, it was his duty,
if he would charge others with constructive notice, to
file his deed in the office at Duncan. Had he done this
he would have had a conveyance of record which would
have been constructive notice to subsequent purchasers.
Such constructive notice was not conveyed to Galloway
and the subsequent purchasers by the filing of the deed
for record at Ryan in the old district. It results that the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma must be
Affirmed.

