OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

249 U. S.

reserve any of the odd-numbered sections from homestead or preemption settlement in advance of the definite
location of the line of the railroad; and, as has been
stated, there never was a definite location of that part
of the road which had been proposed to be built opposite
to the land thAt claimant took up.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must be
Affirmed.

CITIZENS BANK OF MICHIGAN CITY, INDIANA,
v. OPPERMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COUIT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 2.34.

Argued March 17, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

When a petition for rehearing is entertained in the state court, the
judgment does not become final for the purposes of review here
until the petition has been denied or otherwise disposed of, and the
three months' limitation prescribed by the Act of September 6,
1916, begins to run from that time. P. 450.
Under the Act of 1916, the review of judgments of state courts by
writ of error is limited to cases in which was really drawn in question
the validity of a .treaty or statute of or an authority exercised under
the United States; or the validity of a statute of, or an authority
exercised under, a State, on the ground of their being repugnant to
the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States. Id.
Writ of error to review 115 N. E. Rep. 55, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jeremiah B. Collins, with whom Mr. Worth W.
Pepple was on the brief, for plaint~ff in error.
Mr. S. J. Crumpacker, with whom Mr. Samuel Parker,
Mr. Frank E. Osborn, Mr. Lee L. Osb,, n and Mr. Wil
C. Crabill were on the brief, for defendant in error.

CITIZENS BANK r. OPPERMAN.
448.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of

the court.
Section 7855, Burns' Anno. Indiana Statutes, 1914,
provides: "A married woman shall not inter into any
contract of suretyship, whether as indorser, guarantor,
or in any other manner; and such contract, as to her,
shall be void." Relying upon this, defendant, in error
sued to recover a certificate of National Bank stock
issued in her tame and held by plaintiff in error bank as
security for her husband's indebtedness. The bank
defended upon the theory that exercising rights given
by ยง 12 of the National Bank Act (13 Stat. 102; Rev.
Stats., ยง5139) she transferred the stock to her husband
and in turn he had hypothecated it to secure hi$ ijersonal
note. Being of the opinion that the National Ban Act
did not inhibit an inquiry concerning all the circumstances
the trial court permitted introduction of proof to tnat end;
the jury found the bank had knowledge of facts sufficient
to charge it with notice that the transaction amounted
to a contract of suretyship by the wife; and judgment.
in her favor was affirmed by the State Supreme Court.
A petition to rehear was overruled May 18, 1917, and at
that time the judgment below became final for purposes
of review here. Andrews v. Virginian Ry. Co., 248 U. S.
272; Chicago Great Western R. R. Co. v. Basham, ante,
164. This writ of error was applied for July 13, 1917within three months.
The Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726,
727, 728, limited our power to review judgments or de-.
crees in state courts which became final subsequent to
date when it went into effect (October 6, 1916), upon
writs of error, ,to those cases "where is draw"n in question
the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority
exercised under the United States, and the decision is
against their validity; or where is drawn in question the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

validity of a statute of,. or an authority exercised under
any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the
Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and
the decision is in favor of their validity." It also authorized this court to bring up for review and determination
by certiorari "any cause wherein a final judgment or
decree has been rendered or passed by. the highest court
of a State in which a decision could be had, where is
drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of,
or an authority exercised under the United States, and
the decision is in favor of their validity; or where is
drawn in question -the validity of a statute of, or an
authority exercised under any State, on the ground of
their being repugnant to the. Constitution, treaties, or
laws of the United States, and the decision is against
their validity." And it further distinctly directed that
except as to writs of certiorari addressed to the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands "no writ of error, appeal,
or writ of certiorari intended to bring up any cause for
review by the Supreme Court shall be allowed or entertained unless duly applied for within three months after
entry of the judgment or, decree complained of." Where
a petition for rehearing is entertained the judgment does
not become final for purposes of our review until such
petition has been denied or otherwise disposed of and the
three months' limitation begins to run from date of such
denial or other disposition.
Plaintiff in error presented its petition here for a writ
of certiorari tobring up the present cause April 15, 1918;
this was denied April 22, 1918. Manifestly, the application was not within the prescribed time.
An examination of the record shows that in the courts
below there was not-really drawn in question (Wilswn v.
North Carolina, 169 U. S. 586, 595) "the validity of a
treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under the
United States" or "the validity of a statute of, or an

UNITED STATES v. ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO. 451
448.

Argument for Appellee.

authority exercised under any State, on the ground of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or
laws of the United States." .Consequently, we are
without jurisdiction to entertain the writ of error and it
must be
Dismissed.
UNITED

STATES

v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA &

SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 201.

Argued March 11, 12, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

The Act of March 4, 1913, e. 143, 37 Stat. 791, 797, authorizing the
Postmaster General to add, not exceeding 5 per cent. per annum,
to the compensation of railroads, under certain pending contracts
for transportation of mail, left the increases, within that limit, to
his discretion; the plain import of the words used must control.
P. 454.
52 Ct. Clms. 338, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown, with whom Mr.
Leonard Zeisler was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Alex. Britton, with whom Mr. Evans Browne and
Mr. Francis W. Clements were on the brief, for appellee,
invoked the legislative history of the act to prove that
an extra allowance of full 5 per cent. was intended, without giving any discretion to the Postmaster General to
fix a smaller amount. This was so plain, especially if the
act be taken as a whole and with others in pari materia,
that it ought even to prevail against the letter of the
enactment. (1) Blake v. National Banks, 23 Wall. 307;

