HOUSTON v. ST. LOUIS PACKING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

HOUSTON ET AL. v. ST. LOUIS INDEPENDENT
PACKING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 264.

Argued March 20, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

Under the Meat Inspection Act, the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to prohibit the use of the word "sausage" as false and
deceptive, when applied to a compound of meat, with added cereal
in excess of 2 per cent. and added water or ice in excess of 3 per
cent. P. 483.
The act does not require the Secretary to mark a meat-food product
"inspected and passed" merely because it is wholesome and free
from dyes and chemicals, if it is to be sold under a deceptiye name.
P. 484.
Whether the name "sausage" is deceptive as applied to a compound
of meat with added cereal and water is a question of fact which the
statute submits to the determination of the Secretary, under the
power it gives him to make rules and regulations for carrying it
.into effect, and his decision, when fairly arrived at on substantial
evidence, is conclusive. Id.
242 Fed. Rep. 337, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson, with whom
Mr. Charles S. Coffey was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Alexander F. Reichmann, with whom Mr. Abram
B. Stratton was on the brief, for appellee.

*MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinipn of the court.
The Secretary of Agriculture, assuming to exercise authority under the "Meat Inspection" Act, approved

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

June 30th, 1906, c. 3913, 34 Stat. 669, 676, 678, promulgated a regulation, effective April 1st, 1913, in part as
follows, viz.:
"Washington, D. C., Feb. 28, 1913.
"For the purpose of preventing the use in interstate or
foreign commerce of meat or meat food products under
any false or deceptive name, under the authority conferred on the Secretary of Agriculture by the provisions
of the act of Congress, approved June 30, 1906 (34 Stat.
674), Regulation 18 is hereby amended by the addition
of sections 15 and 16, to read as hereinafter set out.
James Wilson,
Secretary of Agriculture.
"(Section 16, paragraph 1.) Sausage shall not contain
cereal in excess of two per cent: When cereal is added its
presence shall be stated on the label or on the product.
"(Paragraph 2.) Water or ice shall not be added to
sausage, except for the purpose of facilitating grinding,
chopping and mixing, in which case the added water or
ice shall not exceed three per cent., except as provided
in the following paragraph."
Inunediately after the effective date of this regulation
*the appellee, an extensive manufacturer of sausage, correctly interpreting it as pyohibiting the marking, 'stamping or labeling as "sausage" any compound of chopped
or minced meats containing cereal in excess of two per
cent. and wateror ice in excess of three per cent. (except
as otherwise provided), filed the bill in this case in the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern Division of the Eastern District of Missouri, averring that
"sausage" made by it with cereal and water in excess of
the rcquirements of the.regulation was wholesome and fit
for human food and that the effect of the order would
be to exclude its product from interstate commerce, to
its great and irreparable damage. The prayer was that

HOUSTON v. ST. LOUIS PACKING CO.

479.

Opinion of the Court.

the defendants, the Secretary of Agriculture and the officers subordinate to him, be enjoined from refusing to
mark as "Inspected and passed". all "sausage" manufactured by the petitioner found to be sound, healthful,
and wholesome, and which contained no dyes, chemicals,
preservatives or ingredients which would render such
"sausage" unsound, unwholesome or unfit for human
food; that they be required by mandatory injunction to
mark such "sausage" as "Inspected and passed," and
that the regulation be declared to be unauthorized by
law, null and void.
The District Court denied the application, on the bill,
for an injunction (204 Fed. Rep. 120), but on appeal that
holding was reversed and -the case was remanded by the
Circuit Court of Appeals (215 Fed. Rep. 553).
The Secretary of Agriculture then answered admitting
that it was the purpose, of the Department to refuse, and
that it had refused, to mark as "Inspected and passed"
as "sausage" the product of the appellee unless manufactured in compliance with the regulations complained
of, and, as warrant therefor, he quoted in his answer from
the act of Congress the following:
"No such meat or meat food products shall be sold or
offered for sale by any person, firm, or corporationin interstate or foreign commerce under any false or -deceptive name;
but established trade name or names which are usual to such
products and which are not false -and deceptive and which
shall be approved by the.Secretary of Agriculture are permitted," and that "said Secretary of Agriculture shall,
from time to time, make such rules and .regulations as
are necessary for. the efficient execution of the provisions
of this Act, and all inspections and examinations made
under this Act shall be such and made in such manner
as described in the rules and regulations prescribed by
,,aid Secretary of Agriculture not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act."

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Answering the allegation of the bill that the appellee's
trade in "sausage" would be ruined by the enforcement
of the regulation, the Secretary of Agriculture averred
that the appellee manufactured and sold large quantities
of sausage which did not contain any cereal or added
water, and added:
"That the manufacture and sale oi a product as sausage
which product contains added cereal and water in quantities as described in plaintiff's bill, or in any quantities.
in excess of the amount designated in said regulation,
effective April 1, 1913, is false and deceptive; that the
ordinary consumer of sausage manufactured by this plaintiff has no knowledge or information that sausage contains
cereal and added water, that such information is not conveyed to persons who purchase plaintiff's sausage at retail by any method of marking or branding now or heretofore in use by plaintiff, and that it is impracticable and
impossible in the ordinary course of manufacture and
distribution of sausage to mark or brand the same so
that the purchaser at retail or the consumer will be informed as to the amount of cereal and water added
thereto."
An elaborate trial on the merits resulted in the dismissal
of the bill by the District Court, but this judgment was
reversed by a divided Circuit Court of Appeals and the
case was remanded with directions to award the appellee
injunctions substantially as prayed for. The case is here
for review on appeal.
The claim made by the Government in the lower courts
that the compound of meats, cereal and water, which the
appellee claimed the right to sell as "sausage" was unwholesome is abandoned in this court, and the only question argued and submitted is whether it was within the
power of the Secretary of Agriculture to prohibit the use
of the word "sausage" as false and deceptive, within the
meaning of the act, when applied to the appellee's product.

HOUSTON v. ST. LOUIS PACKING CO.
479.

Opinion of the Court.

The foregoing statement shows that the question for
decision in this court is: Whether, in promulgating the
regulation assailed, the Secretary of Agriculture acted
arbitrarily and in excess of the authority given him by
the act of Congress, to make, from time to time, such
rules and regulations as are necessary for the efficient
enforcement of the act, or whether he acted in good faith
and upon substantial grounds in deciding that the sale of
appellee's product as "sausage" resulted in deception of
purchasers and consumers, so that his determination of
such question of fact was within the power conferred upon
him as the head of an executive department of the Government and is not subject to review by the courts.
The contention of the Government is that the product
of the appellee being a meat food product, put up in containers-casings or canvas coverings-it falls within the
prohibition of the act that such product shall not be sold
or offered for sale by any corporation in interstate commerce "under any false or deceptive name," and that the
regulation being for the purpose of preventing its sale
under the false or deceptive name of "sausage," it is
plainly within the authority given to the Secretary of
Agriculture to make rules and regulations for the efficient
execution of the act.
On the other hand, the contention of the appellee is
that the product being wholesome and containing no
dyes or chemicals, which render it unfit for human food,
an earlier provision of the act applies, which it is asserted
deprives the Secretary of all discretion in such a case and
requires that he shall cause the product to be marked
"Inspected and passed;" and also, it is claimed, that the
word "sausage," when qualified as was required by prior
regulations by including in the label such expressions as
"Cereal added," or "Sausage and cereal," was not a
false or deceptive name.
The contention of the appellee that if its product is

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

wholesome, and if it does not contain dyes and chemicals,
the act imperatively requires the Secretary to mark its
product as "Inspected and passed" is clearly unsound
if the word "sausage" as applied to it is false and deceptive, for plainly the provision of the act requiring the
marking of the product must be harmonized with the subsequent provision that no such meat or meat food product shall be sold or offered for sale under any false or
deceptive name.
Whether or not the term "sausage," when applied to
the product of the appellee, in which more than the permitted amount of cereal and water is used, is false and
deceptive is a question of fact, the determination of which
is committed to the decision of the Secretary of Agriculture by the authority given him to make rules and
°regulations for giving effect to the act, and the law is that
the conclusion of the head of an executive department on
such a question will not be reviewed -by the courts, where
it is fairly arrived at with substantial evidence to support it.
This rule has been most. frequently applied in Land
Department cases,. but often also to decisions by heads
of other departments.
Thus' to the action of the Secretary of the Navy in
Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497; to the action of the
Secretary of the Interior, on full consideration of the subject, in Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 347, and in Burfenning
v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 163 U. S. 321; and to decisions
of the Postmaster General in Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne,
194 U. S.106, and Smith v. Hitchcock, 226 U. S. 53. The
doctrine has been extended by act of Congress to decisions
by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, Tang Tun v.
Edsell, 223 U. S. 673; Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S. 272;
Lewis v. Frick, 233 U. S.291.
The scope of the rule is illustrated by this court, saying
in Johnson v.. Drew, 171 U. S. 93, 99:
"If there is any one thing respecting the administra-

HOUSTON v. ST. LOUIS PACKING CO.
479.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the public lands which must be considered as
settled by repeated adjudications of this court, it is that
the decision of the land department upon mere questions
of fact is, in the absence of fraud or deceit, conclusive,
and such questions cannot thereafter be relitigated in
the courts."
And in New Orleans v. Paine, 147 U. S. 261, 264:
"In Noble v. Union River Logging Railroad, decided at
the present term (ante 165,) we had occasion to examine
the question as to when a court was authorized to interfere
by injunction with the action of the Head of a Department, and came to the conclusion that it was only where,
in any view of the facts that could be taken, such action
was beyond the scope of his authority. If he were engaged in the performance of a duty which involved the
exercise of discretion or judgment, he was entitled to
protection from any interference by the judicial power."
That the case before us is one for the application of
this rule is shown by the record, which contains an interesting history of what large, manufacturers have come,
in a more or less gradual progress, to regard as the proper
ingredients of the product which they have sold as sausage, and which also shows, without conflict, that the
ultimate purchaser and consumer of the product is not
informed and in general *does not know of the presence of
cereal and added water in it. The evidence shows that
the poorer classes of beef and pork are used in making
sausage, such as trimmings, hearts, ears, cheeks, liver,
snouts and tripe, "and all that kind of things," but the
prefelTed material is bull meat; that such meat, other
than bull meat, is dry and has not the cohesive properties
which will unite it when ground or minced into the mass
popularly known as "sausage" and that, for this reason,
corn mqal, potato flour and other like substances have
come to be used by the trade as "binders" to give it the
desired cohesiveness and appearance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

The president of the appellee testified that when he
first began .making sausage twenty-five years ago he used
anywhere from five per cent. to twelve per cent. of cereal
and that when the regulation was promulgated he was
using two or three per cent. to ten per cent. wheh he used
any at all, but that in a part of his product he did not
use any, notably in that which was sent into Pennsylvania,
where the use of cereal was prohibited by statute; that
when he used ten per cent. of cereal he added from fifteen
to twenty per cent. of water, and that in general water
was added in double the percentage of cereal used; and
that the cereal, usually corn meal or corn flour, was resorted to to cheapen the product and cost about two cents
a pound, while the meat used cost from six to fifteen cents
a pound.
Before the regulation assailed was pronfulgated cereal
and water were generally used by large manufacturers of
sausage, but all of the representatives of manufacturers,
other than those of the appellee, who were called as witnesses, testified that they were obeying the regulation,
and the agreement of such witnesses was general that
retail purchasers and consumers did not know of the
presence of cereal in what they were buying as sausage.
There is conflict in the evidence as to whether the use
of cereal in excess of the prescribed amounts renders the
product less digestible and wholesome, whether it reduces
its food value, and whether the sausage will ferment in a
shorter time than when cereal is not used at all, or when
used in smaller quantities.
The result, thus stated, of the examination of the record
before us shows, beyond controversy, that the Secretary
of Agriculture in promulgating the regulation complained
of acted on substantial evidence and with sufficient reason
in concluding that persons purchasing or using as "sausage" the appellee's compound of various meats, cereal
and water would be deceived as to its composition and

MOORE v. UNITED STATES.

479.

Syllabus.

as to its value as a food product, and we cannot say that
it was an abuse of discretion to prohibit the use of the
word "sausage" as applied to it, rather than to prescribe
qualifying terms explanatory of it. Few purchasers read
long labels, many cannot read them at all, and the act of
Congress having committed to the head of the department,
constantly dealing with such matters, the discretion to
determine as to whether the use of the word "sausage"
in a label would be false and deceptive or not, under such
circumstances as we have here, this court will not review,
and the Circuit Court of Appeals should not have reviewed and reversed the decision of the Secretary of
Agriculture.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit is reversed and the case remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

MOORE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 278. Argued March 21, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.
The Act of June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat. 851, allowing compensation
from the United States for use of patented inventions, provides
that it shall not apply to any device discovered or invented by a
government employee "during the time of his employment or
service." • Held, that this prevents recovery where the invention
was completed; during such service although in the hours when the
inventor was not actually on duty.
52 Ct. Clms. 532, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

