BROUGHAM v. BLANTON.MFG. CO.
490.

Counsel for Appellants.

R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36, 50, and Western Life
Indemnity Co. v. Rupp, 235 U. S. 261, 273, 275.
It is asserted that the record presents other constitutional questions which give this court jurisdiction to review the case, but an examination shows the claims to be
too unsubstantial to merit discussion and the writ must be
Dismissed.

BROUGHAM ET AL. v. BLANTON MANUFACTURING COMPANY.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 247.

Argued March 19, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

The Mcat'Inspection Law applies to oleomargarine. P. 498.
Registration of a trade-name under the Trade Mark Law has no bearing on the right to use it under the Meat Inspection Law. P. 499.
Under the Meat Inspection Law the power to determine whether a

trade-name is false, or deceptive, is lodged with the Secretary of
Agriculture, and his determination, if not arbitrary, is conclusive.
Houston v. St. Louis Independent Packing Co., ante, 479. Id.
The power of the Secretary is a continuing one; approval of a name
at one time not precluding its disapproval later. P. 501.
Held, that the Secretary, having approved the name "Creamo" as
a designation of an oleo product, containing 30% cream, and which
was strongly extolled on that ground, was amply justified in denying the use when the cream had been greatly reduced or omitted,
and replaced by skimmed milk; notwithstanding evidence that
the manufacturer invested heavily upon the faith of the approval.
Id.
243 Fed. Rep. 503, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Friersonfor appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Mr. Shepard Barclay, with whom Mr. S. Mayner Wallace was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McKFNNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Appellants are officers of the Departinent 6f'Agricultfie
charged with the administration of the meat inspection
acts. The appellee, Blanton Manufacturing Company,
is a manufacturer of oleomargarine and brought this suit
against appellants to enjoin and restrain them from interfering with it in the use of the word "Creamo" as a
trade-mark in the manufacture and sale of its product
and the use of that mark upon packages of its product
shipped from St. Louis in interstate commerce.
The District Court granted the injunction and its decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 243
Fed. Rep. 503
As a ground of suit and recovery the company relies upon
the following facts and they, express, in a general way, its
contentions. To what extent they should be modified
will be apparent as we proceed.
The company is a manufacturer of oleomargarine, having a factory at St. Louis, Missouri, which comprises a
group of buildings specially arranged and equipped for
the purpose of such manufacture and where the company
has made an investment of many thousands of dollars.
Its product has been sold in packages of various sizes,
marked with a trade label or stencil adopted for that purpose, which trade-mark is the word "Creamo," used
since 1904. Its trade has become extensive and valuable,
its product has acquired a high reputation and become a
source of profit, increasing yearly, and an interruption
in the use of its trade-mark and label would cause serious
injury in a sum exceeding, $5000.
January 6, 1908, the company applied to the United

BROUGHAM v. BLANTON MFG. CO.
495.

-

Opinion of the Court.

States Patent Office for the registration of "Creamo"
as a trade-mark, it was duly registered June 9, 1908, and
the company has since enjoyed the use of it and made
contracts with dealers under it, and the company's oleomargarine is known to its customers far and wide by that
label, trade-name and mark.
In 1906, after the enactment of the Act of June 30,
1906, c. 3913, 34 Stat. 669, concerning the inspection of
"meat and meat food products," the company was informed by the Bureau of Animal Industry that its plant
would be subject to inspection under the act of Congress.
The company objected but yielded to avoid controversy
and hazard to its interest, and an inspector was installed.
The company, however, contends that its manufacture
of oleomargarine is not subject to the power and authority
of the bureau.
The Secretary of Agriculture, in 1907, approved the
company's trade-mark of "Creamo"' and upon the faith
of the approval the company has used the same and by
expenditure of large sums of money has extended its
popularity and publicity; but, notwithstanding, Dr.
Brougham (one of the appellants) threatened the company that from and after March 1, 1914, its use would
not be allowed and that the inspector in the establishment of the company would enforce the threat and attempt to prevent the use of the trade-mark and label.
The trade-mark is duly registered in the office of the
Secretary of State of the State of Missouri.
Some of the contentions of the company are somewhat
difficult to handle-indeed, to get at in separation. One
of these is that the Bureau of Animal Industry 'has no
authority or power over the company's product, its manufacture or market. The basis of the contention is that
the food products indicated by "the meat inspection act
do not include a food product bearing the trade-name
'oleomargarine,' prescribed by a special revenue law to

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. 8.

be used in the sale thereof, and that statutory name is
not 'false or deceptive' when so used." And for the contention the company relies on Homer v. Collector, 1 Wall.
486, and Chew Hing Lung v. Wise, 176 U. S. 156.. The
further contention is that ยง 6 of the Olegmargarine Act
(24 Stat. 209) requires the article to be packed in a particular way which is not the same as that prescribed by
the meat inspection act and was in force before the latter
was enacted, and therefore excluded "an article like
this oleomargarine having a 'trade-name' by law." And
yet again that the Food and Drugs Act, which is "in
pari materia, enacts that an 'article of food' containing
no poisonous or deleterious ingredients shall not be
deemed misbranded" which shall thereafter be known as
articles of food under their own distinctive names and not
offered for sale under the distinctive name of another
article if the name be accompanied on the same label
or brand by the name of the place where manufactured
or produced. And it is said that the company's oleomargarine bears that statutory trade-name and hence should
not be considered misbranded. United States v. Coca
Cola Co., 241 U. S.265, is adduced to support the contention. We do not consider it necessary to follow the
company's argument in detail. It is rather involved.
We disagree with it. In other words, we are of opinion
that the meat inspection act is applicable. This was the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals. The company's
oleomargarine is a meat product, compounded, among
other things, of oleo oil and neutral lard.1 Besides, it is
not sold under the name of oleomargarine alone; there is
the qualifying addition of the word "Creamo," and used,
as we shall hereafter see, to qualify and distinguish it
from other combinations which might bear the designation oleomargarine.
IDefined in the testimony to be "a lard produced from the leaf of
a pig, neutralized so as to take the taste and smell out of it."

BROUGHAM v. BLANTON MFG. CO.
465.

Opinion of the Court.

We pass to the consideration of the meat inspection
acts (of June 30, 1906, and March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 669,
1260). They require an inspection of all meat and meat
food products prepared for interstate and foreign commerce and provide that no persons or firm or corporation
shall offer for 'transportation, and no carrier shall transport in interstate or foreign commerce, any such products
unless marked "Inspected and passed," and that "no
such meat or meat food producfe shall be sold or offered
for sale by any person, firm, or corporation in interstate
or foreign commerce under any false or deceptive name;
but established trade name or names which are usual to
such products and which are not false and deceptive and
which shall be approved by the Secretary of Agriculture
are permitted."
It is the contention of the Government that the use of
the word "Creamo" is deceptive and induces the belief
that cream is a substantial ingredient of the oleomargarine.
The company earnestly contends to the contrary and that,
besides, the designation "Creamo" has received the
approval of the Department of Agriculture and has been
sanctioned as an appropriate trade-mark by the Interior
Department (Patent Office). The latter contention may
be immediately put to one side. The test of the product
is the meat inspection laws, not the trade-mark laws, and
therefore we are concerned with the action of the Department of Agriculture and not with that of the Interior
Department.' And so intimately is the case concerned
with the action of the Department of Agriculture that the
basic and dominant contention of the Government is
that to the department is committed the power of determining the fact of the influence of the name and label
of the company. In other words, the power of determining whether a trade name is "false or deceptive" given
by the law to the Secretary of Agriculture is, when exercised, conclusive of the falsity or deception of the name.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

(Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, and cases
cited; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S. 659), and the
power necessarily is a continuing one. The contention
and the cited cases have been approved very lately in
Houston v. St. Louis Independent Packing Co., ante, 479, in
which it is declared that the decision of the department,
unless arbitrary, is conclusive. A sketch of the evidence,,
therefore, becomes necessary.
As early as 1904 there was, if not controversy, discussion between the company and the department. It was
not of serious extent. The company was indulged in
the representation that its product was composed of
"Butter, Oleo Oil, Neutral, Cream and Salt" and that
these were "churned in an abundance of-richest cr-am,
resulting in a perfect substitute for butter.". But ,nere
was objection to a statement that. the oils were "doubly
inspected" by the United States Inspectors, "inguring
absolute purity and cleanliness." Such was the condition
of things, we may deduce from the testimony, until 1908.
We may say, in passing, that in the beginning 30% of
cream was used and the word "Creamo" was selected
to suggest such ingredient to repel the criticisms of the
butter makers who represented that oleomargarine was
produced from "sewerage and dead horses." But it appears from the testimony that the use of cream was discontinued, skimmed milk being used instead, it having
been discovered by the government chemists that it was
not the butter fat in the milk which produced the flavor,
but it, the flavor, came from skimmed milk.
October .2, 1912, an objection came from the department to the use of the company's label and discussion ensued, extending over a period of twelve or fifteen months.
The department then announced that the use of the word
"Creamo" was "considered deceptive and misleading
and its future use could not be permitted." It was, however, suggested that "Creamo Brand Oleomargarine"

BROUGHAM v. BLANTON MFG. CO.
495.

Opinion of the Court.

be used,. the words .to be displayed alike in prominent
type, and that cream should be used in the product,
its use having bden discontinued. Upon this ruling of the
department and the resistance of the company to it the
contest was waged for a time. The company contended
that the word "Creamo" was arbitrary and not descriptive; the department asserted the contrary and that it
"conveyed a false inference to the consuming public,"
and, notwithstanding an offer by the company to use 10%
of cream, insisted upon the use of the word "brand"
and required, also some modifications of the label. It
further declared that if the requirements of the bureau
should not be complied with on and after March 1, 1914,
the inspector in charge at St. Louis would be instructed
to prohibit "the use of all labels, wrappers, cartons, etc.,
which do not bear the bureau stamp of approval and
number."
Such is the testimony in outline, and it is manifest that
the action-of the department was not arbitrary but given
upon a consideration of the circumstances and the fact
of the trade-name "Creamo" having a deceptive implication to the consuming public.
But against the decision of the department the company opposes the previous approval of "Creamo" as a
trade-name and alleges that upon the faith of the approval
the company has used the same and by the expenditure of
large sums of money-testified to be about $10,000 a yearhas macl its product public and popular under that name.
The answer to the contention is that the meat inspection
acts contemplate and confer a continuing inspection and
power, a power necessarily not exhausted by one exercise. Besides, the approval was given at a -time when the
company used 30% of cream in its product and declared
that it and other ingredients were "churned in an abundance of richest cream, -resulting,in a perfect substitute for
butter." The indulgence of the department had istifi-

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

cation. When the practice of the company changed,
when it commenced to vary the percentages of cream and
finally used none at all, naturally the department changed
its ruling. The company can, therefore, claim no right
from the prior ruling. There may be value in the use of
the trade-name ' Creamo, " as the company asserts, and
detriment, it may be, in any change or qualification of it;
but its value may be in its deception-its suggestion of
cream appealing to the popular preference for that article
over skimmed milk, though the scientific judgment may
be infavor of the latter, a judgment possibly not known
or if known not appreciated or accepted. And the deception would not be taken away and the purpose of the
law satisfied by the addition of 10% of cream which the
company offered to make. At least such was the judgment
of the department, and we cannot pronounce it arbitrary.
It will be observed fronf the quoted provisions of the
meat inspection act that two conditions are presented:
If "CreamO Oleomargarine" is to be regarded as the name
of .the product it is false and deceptive, whatever it may
hIve been formerly; if it be asserted to be an established
trade-name it has not received the approval of the Secretary of Agiculture and hence its use is without legal
permission.
Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and
the case remanded to the District Court with direction
to dismiss the bill.
MR. JusTicE McREyxoLs took no part

of the case.

in the decision

