OCTrOBEtIt TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

WERK ET AL., COPARTNERS UNDER THE NAME
OF ROBERT F. WERK & COMPANY, v. PARKER
ET AL., COPARTNERS UNDER THE NAME OF
F. T. PARKER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 73. Argued November 21, 1918.-Decided March 3, 1919.
The use of hors-hair mats for extracting oil, as abundantly shown in
standard and easily accessible books of reference. may be noticed
judicially. P. 132.
The application in the extraction of cotton-seed oil of mats made of
horse hair or other long animal hair, woven in a manner designated,
but without improvement in the art of weaving, held not invention,
but merely mechanical adaptation of familiar materials and methods.
P. 133.
Divisional patents Nos. 758,574 and 758,575, to Robert F. Werk,
relating to oil-press mats for use in extracting cotton-seed oil, held
invalid as to certain claims.
231 Fed. Rep. 121, affirmed.

TiH case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. Hart Anderson for petitioners.
Mr. John Weaver for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Petitioners sued respondents in the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for infringement of two divisional patents, Nos.
758,574 and 758,575, granted April 26, 1904, to Robert F.
Werk. Defendants answered denying patentable novelty,
and also denying infringement. The patents relate to an oilpress mat or cloth for use in the extraction of cotton-seed
oil. The claim in issue under the former patent was for

WERK v. PARKER.
130.

131

Opinion of the Court.

"An oil-press mat or cloth made entirely of long animal
hair and consisting of warp and weft threads, said weftthreads being composed exclusively of soft, pliable hair
and the -warp-threads greatly exceeding the weft-threads
in number per square inch."
And in the second patent:
"An oil-press mat or cloth consisting of warp-threads
and weft-threads, each composed exclusively of long hair
derived from animals' tails and manes, which hair is soft
and pliable; the warp-threads exceeding the weft-threads
in number per square inch, and the weft-threads being
thicker than the warp-threads."
The District Court dismissed the bill on the ground of
non-infringement. 221 Fed. Rep. 644. The Circuit Court
of Appeals, without discussing this question, affirmed the
decree upon the ground that the patent disclosed no such
novel information to the oil-pressing art as warranted a
grant of the patent monopoly. 231 Fed. Rep. 121. At
the conclusion of its opinion the court stated (p. 125)
that in view of the fact that certain references quoted
were not given in evidence, the sending down of the mandate would be deferred for a time to permit of an application for reargument or other form of relief to meet such
references. Thereupon a petition for a rehearing was filed
in behalf of appellants, which, while not disputing the
accuracy of the results disclosed by the court's investigation, insisted that there was error in giving effect to
the anticipatory matter thus disclosed, and in "failing
to give controlling consideration to the fact that both of
the two claims declared upon are laid not only to a particular woven structure of an oil-press mat, but also to an
oil-press mat of, such particular woven structure, when its
threads are composed of animal hair." The rehearing
was refused; after which the present writ of certiorari
was allowed. 242. U. S. 645.
In the process of obtaining oil from cotton seed, the

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

seeds, having been cleaned and freed from lint, are hulled
and chopped up, the meats being separated from the hulls;
the meats are passed through a crusher, next cooked in
water, and after this are spread upon an oil-press mat or
cloth, the ends of which are folded over to cover the upper
surface of the cooked meats. The mat with its inclosed
mass of meats is then placed in a press and subjected to
a pressure of about 4,000 pounds, which has the effect of
expressing the oil through the mat as through a strainer.
One of the patents declares, and the evidence at the
nearing indicated, that the highest grade of mat previously
in general use was made of camel's hair, and that this was
objectionable because of its tendency to pack and felt
together when in use to such an extent as to hinder the
free flow of the oil, and also because of its want of durability. The use of long animal hair, specifically horse hair,
obviated this difficulty to such an extent as materially
to reduce the percentage of oil wasted, as well as the cost
of the mat in proportion to the product. Defendants
accomplished like results with mats woven from human
hair.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, while finding that the
change from camel's hair to horse-hair mats was sufficient
to constitute invention in the art, if this use of horse-hair
mats was first disclosed by Werk, nevertheless found, from
an examination of standard works, that the patentee's use
was but a revival of an old and well-recognized use of
such mats in the art of oil extraction. Reference was
made to the British Encyclopedia, 9th ed., 1884, the Standard Dictionary of 1894, and a multitude of other publications long antedating the application for the patent.
It is not questioned that these references abundantly
showed that the use of hair cloth, and especially horsehair cloth, in the making of oil-press mats or cloths, was
well known in the art long before the patents in suit.
Nor is it questioned-indeed, we deem it clear, beyond

WERK v. PAIIKER.
130.

Opinion of the Court.

question-that the court was justified in taking judicial
notice of facts that appeared so abundantly from standard works accessible in every considerable library. Brown
v. Piper, 91 U. S. 37: 42; Terhune v. Phillips, 99 U. S.
592.
The burden of petitioner's argument in this court, as
in the application for a rehearing in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, is that there was nothing in these publications
to show that the horse-hair cloth so familiar in the art
embodied the "structural characteristics" of the oilpress mats of the patents in suit, referring to the peculiar
mode of weaving described in the claims. But at the
hearing it was clearly proved, and was conceded to be
beyond controversy, that the patents involved no claim
of an improvement in the art of weaving, but only the
application of that art and a combination of threads of a
certain type and character in order to produce a particular
result. And this, in our opinion, goes no further than a
mere mechanical adaptation of familiar materials and
methods, not rising to the dignity of invention. Atlantic
Works v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192, 200; Pennsylvania R. R.
Co. v. Locomotive Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490, 494; Hollister
v. Benedict Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 59, 71, 73; Aron v. Manhaltan Ry. Co.,. 132 U. S. 84, 90; McClain v. Ortmayer,
141 U. S. 419, 426, 429; Duer v. Corbin Cabinet Lock Co.,
149 U. S. 216, 222; Wright v. Yuengling, 155 U. S. 47,
54; Olin v. Timken, 155 U. S. 141, 155; Market Street
Cable Ry. Co. v. Rowley., 155 U. S. 621, 629.
Decree affirmed.

