OCTOBER TERI,

1918.

Counsel for Parties.

249 U. S.

G. S. NICHOLAS & COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
ALEX. D. SHAW & COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF, CUSTOMS
APPEALS.
Nos. 62, 63.

Argued January 14, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

The allowance of three pence and five pence per gallon made under
23 & 24 Vict., c. 129, and later acts of Parliament, on exportation
of certain British spirits, if not a "bounty," is a "grant" within
the meaning of Paragraph E of ยง 4 of the Tariff Act of 1913, providing for a countervailing duty whenever any country shall pay
or bestow, directly or indirectly, any bounty or grant upon the
exportation of any article or merchandise dutiable under the act.
Notwithstanding the facts that such allowances may be intended merely
as compensation to distillers and rectifiers for costs due to British
excise regulations and are not confined to cases of exportation, they
are, as applied to exports, governmental payments-"grants"made only upon exportation, which, by lessening the burden of
British taxation, enable the spirits to be sold more cheaply here
tharrat home,-the situation against which Paragraph E was intended to provide. P. 37. United States v. Pasavant, 169 U. S. 16,
followed.
7 Cust. App. Rep. 97, affirmed.
THE

case is'stated in the opinion. For the decision of the

Board of General Appraisers, see G. A. 7758, 29 T. D. 59.
Mr. Albert H. Washburn for petitioners in No. 62.
Mr. W. P. Preble for petitioners in No. 63.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Hanson for the United
States.

NICHOLAS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
34.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JuSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Writs of certiorari to review a judgment of the Court of
Customs Appeals affirming a decision by the, Board of
General Appraisers which overruled the protests of petitioners against the action of collectors of customs at
Boston and New York assessing additional or countervailing duties on whiskey and gin imported from Great
Britain. 7 Cust. App. Rep. 97.
Paragraph E of ยง 4 of the Tariff Act of 1913 (38 Stat.
114) reads as follows
"E. That whenever any country, dependency, colony,
province, or other political subdivision of government
shall pay or bestow, directly or indirectly, any bounty
or grant upon the exportation of any article or merchandise from such country, dependency, colony, province,
or other political subdivision of government, and such
article or merchandise is dutiable under the provisions of
this Act, then upon the importation of any such article
or merchandise into the United States, whether the same
shall be imported directly from the country of production
or otherwise, and whether such article or merchandise is
imported in the same condition as when exported from the
country of production or has been changed in c:ndition
by remanufacture or otherwise, there shall be levied and
paid, in all such cases, in addition to the duties otherwise
imposed by this Act, an additional duty equal to the net
amount of such bounty or grant, however the same be
paid or bestowed. The net amount of all such bounties
or grants shall be from time to time ascertained, determined, and declared by the Secretary of the Treasury, who
shall make all needful regulations for the identification
of such articles and merchandise and for the assessment
and collection of such additional duties."
The question in the case is the legality of the counter-

.136

OCTOBER TIEJM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

vailing duty. It was determined and declared to be
necessary under Paragraph E by reason of the allowance
under the British legislation of three pence upon plain
British spirits and five pence upon British compounded
spirits. 23 & 24 Vict., c. 129.
The case is not of broad compass.. The act of Parliament referred to above levies a duty upon every gallon
of spirits of a certain strength which after certain designated dates were or should be distilled within the United
Kingdom or which, having been distilled therein, were on
the designated dates in the stock or possession of any distiller or in any duty-free warehouse, and which after the
named dates should be taken out for consumption within
the United Kingdom.
It is provided that "In consideration of the Loss and
Hindrance caused by Excise Regulation in the Distillation and Rectification of Spirits in the United Kingdom"
there shall be paid "to any Distiller or Proprietor of such
Spirits on the Exportation thereof from a Duty-free
Warehouse, or on depositing the same in a Customs Warehouse . . . the Allowance of Twopence per Gallon
..
and to any licensed Rectifier who . . . has
or shall have deposited in a Customs Warehouse Spirits
distilled and rectified in the United Kingdom the following
Allowances; . . . Threepence per Gallon, and on
Spirits of the Nature of Spirits of Wine an Allowance of
Twopence per Gallon
. .
Subsequent acts of Parliament repeat the provisinns for
allowance upon exported spirits, adding some details, and
are replete with the regulations and provisions which the
legislators thought or experience had demonstrated were
necessary. And there is quite an enumeration of warehouses and their purposes which, however necessary from
the standpoint of the law, happily is not necessary to our
consideration of the questions in the case, although counsel
describe them and use them in display of the options which

NICHOLA, & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
34.

Opinion of the Court.

it is contended the law gives to a distiller-that is, to
export, warehouse, or sell the spirits or use them under
conditions which would or would not result in an allowance. We do not find it necessary to go into such confusing considerations. The question in the case is more direct,
and is whether the three pence and five pence paid on account of export from the United Kingdom is the'bestowal
"!directly or indirectly" of a "bounty or grant upon the
exportation of any article or merchandise from such country," to use the words of Paragraph E.
Looking only at the paragraph and judging from the first
impressions of its words, the problem presented would
seem to be without difficulty. There is paid to an exporter
of spirits from the United Kingdom the sum of three or
five pence a gallon, as the case may be, and the instant.
conclusion is that the sale of spirits to other countries
is relieved from a burden that their sale in the United
Kingdom must bear. There is a benefit, therefore, in
exportation, an inducement to seek the foreign market.
And thus it would seem, if we regarded the substance of
things, that the condition of the application of Paragraph E obtains.
Counsel, however, resist this view in somewhat lengthy
and 'minute arguments, only the basic propositions of
which we can give. They dwell especially upon the purpose of the British act and the differences, not only actual,
as they contend, but recognized in the administrative
and legislative parlance of this country, between the words
allowance, bounty, drawback and grant. In support of
the first contention-that is, the purpose of the British
act-it is urged that the allowance provided for is not a
"bounty" upon exportation, but "compensation" to
the distiller and rectifier for. costs due to excise restrictions. In other words, that the allowance is not a premium on exportation, but the remission or reimbursement
of the. expense of manufacture to accommodate the "pe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

.249

U. S.

culiar conditions and necessities" of the British fiscal
policy. In confirmation of this view it is said that not all
British spirits when exported get the allowance, but only
those that are war'ehoused in a certain specified way, and
that, besides, the allowance is also paid when certain
spirits go into domestic consumption. And the British
Ambassador is quoted as saying of the allowances that
they "do not even compensate the loss they are intended
to reimburse, as is abundantly proved."
It is hence asserted that the condition of the application
of Paragraph E-that is, a premium bestowed on an exportation from another country-is absent and that, besides, the paragraph is of limited scope, the word bounty
not being used in its most comprehensive sense, and that
there is a wide difference between an "indirect bounty"
and "indirectly paying a bounty," and that for an indirect
bounty the paragraph does not provide. Counsel attempt
to justify the distinction and illustrate it by the citation
of the example of many acts of Congress by which "indirect" bounties were legislated and also by the comments
of legislators in discussion of the purpose and effect of the
use of the words" allowances," and" rebates," and" drawbacks." And United States v. Passavant, 169 U. S. 16,
23, is quoted for a distinction between "the word 'bounty'
as differentiated from the word 'drawback' in tariff parlance" and the "shades of meaning which Congress must
have had in mind in enacting Paragraph E and provisions
in pari materia." In further support of their distinctions
counsel cite the executive practice of this country, and
adduce the decisions of this and other courts to show that
such practice is a useful resolvent of the meaning of words
and of legislative intention.
We appreciate the strength of the argument, but the
circumstances are but aids to persuasion; they do not
compel it. Every new statute is individual and presents
its own problem. That before us does, and, as we have

NICHOLAS & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
34.

Opinion of the Court.

said, looking at its words alone, has no uncertainty of
purpose. Whenever any country "shall pay or bestow,
directly or indirectly, any bounty or-grant upon the exportation of any article or merchandise," there shall be
levied and paid upon it, upon importation, in addition to
the regular duty, an additional one "equal to the net
amount of such bounty or grant, however the same be
paid or bestowed." The statute was addressed to a condition and its words must be considered as intending to
define it, and all of them-" grant" as well as "bounty"must be given effect. If the word "bounty" has a limited
sense the word '"grant" has not.- A word of broader
significance than "grant" could not have been used.
Like its synonyms "give" and "bestow," it expresses a
concession, the conferring of something by one person
upon another. And if the" something" be conferred by a
country "upon the exportation of any article or merchandise" a countervailing duty is required by Paragraph E.
There can be, therefore, but one inquiry: Was something-bounty or grant-paid or bestowed upon the
exportation of spirits? Counsel's answer we have given;
ours is different. They dwell upon the meaning oi one
word and the necessary-adjustments of the British revenue
legislation; we regard all of the words, the fact of payment
and the event-the fact that the grant is made at the time
of exportation and only upon expoittation (of course, we
mean of the spirits destined for the United States)-the
event, that the spirits may be sold cheaper in the United
States than in the United Kingdom, and necessarily there
may be that aid to their competitive power. We do not
think that it is a repelling answer to say that they are sold
here at the same price that they would be sold for in the
United Kingdom if the latter imposed no tax, that is,
sold here as if they had not been taxed at all, and therefore sold not below their natural cost. This is mere speculation of the effects of a different situation. We have the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

fact of spirits able to be sold cheaper in the United States
than in the place of their production, and this the result
of an act of government because of the destination of the
spirits being a foreign market. For that situation Paragraph E was intended to provide. What legislation some
other situation might require or receive we are not called
upon to conjecture.
Our conclusion is supported, we think, by United States
v. Passavant, supra, a case from which counsel have
adduced some argument. An importation of goods from
Germany was the subject of the decision. That country
imposed a tax upon merchandise when sold by the manufacturer thereof for consumption or sale in the markets
of Germany. Upon exportation of the merchandise the
tax was remitted. The remission was called" bonification
of tax" as distinguished from being refunded as a rebate.
The merchandise could be purchased in bond for exportation in the principal markets of Germany at the net
invoice price and without paying the so-called German
duty. The merchandise with which the case was concerned was so purchased.
Upon importation of the merchandise it was determined
by the collector and customs appraiser that its value was
the net invoice'value with the German duty added. This
ruling was contested by the importer and the Board of
General Appraisers reversed it. The Circuit Court, to
which the case had been carried, affirmed the decision of
the Board of General Appraisers. Upon appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals that court asked of this court
whether the German duty had been lawfully included
by the collector and customs appraiser in their estimate
of the dutiable value. We answered in the affirmative,
and said, through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, that "the
laws of this country in the assessment of duties proceed
upon the market value in the exporting country and not
upon that market value less such remission or ameliora-

PANAMA 11.1. CO. v. BOSSE.
34.

41

Syllabus.

tion as that country chooses to allow in accordance with
its own views of public policy." And this conclusion was
reached upon the effect of the remitted tax and not upon
.the word used to designate it. In other words, the decision was not determined by a consideration of costs of
manufacture or their reimbursement nor by the require;
ments of the policies of the exporting country. It regarded the fact and effect of the remitted excise.
Downs v. United States, 187 U. S. 496, is a like example,
and direct And indirect bounties. are illustrated. As an
instance of the former the amount paid upon the production of sugar under the Act of Congress of 1890 is
adduced, and also the "drawback" (the word of the
statute is used) upon certain articles exported; as instances of the latter, that is, of indirect bounties, the
remission of taxes upon the exportation of articles which
are subject to a tax when sold or consumed in the country
of their production is given, and, as another example,
the laws permitting distillers of spirits to export the same
without payment of an internal revenue tax or other
burden.
We consider further discussion unnecessary and the
judgment of the Court of Customs Appeals is
Affirmed.

PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY v. BOSSE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 203.

Submitted January 31, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

An order of the President continuing in force for the government of
the Canal Zone "the laws of the land, with which the inhabitants
are familiar," etc., was construed by the Government as including

