UNION OIL CO. v. 6MITH..
334.

Syllabus.

contract was the personal contract of the petitioner--a
finding that seems warranted if any contract by a corporation can fall within the class. That such contracts may
impose a liability that cannot be transferred to what is
left of the ship is decided. Luckenbach v. McCahan
Sugar Refining Co., 248 U. S. 139, 149. Upon the whole
case we cannot escape from the conclusion that the decree
must be affirmed.
Decree afirmed.

UNION OIL COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA v. SMITH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 8: Submitted November 13, 1918.-Decided March 31, 1919.
In order to create valid rights or initiate a title as against the United
States under the mining laws, a discovery of mineral within the
location is essential. P. 346.
For the purpose of exploring for mineral, a qualified person who has
entered peaceably upon vacant public land is treated as a licensee
or tenant at will of the United States and allowed, as of necessity,
a right of possession, the extent of which, i. e., whether confined to
pedis possessio or coterminous with the boundaries of his inchoate
location,-is not here decided. Id.
The.right of possession before discovery may be maintained only by
continued actual occupancy by a qualified locator or his rpresentatives, engaged in persistent, and diligent prosecution of work
looking to the discovery of mineral. P. 348.
Discovery may follow the marking and recording of a mining claim,
and perfect the location as of the time of discovery, provided no
rights of third parties have intervened. P. 347.,
The terms "assessments," "annual assessment labor," and "assessinent work," in acts of Congress as in the practice of miners, have
nothing to do with the locating or holding of a claim before discovery, but refer to the annual labor required by Rev. Stats., § 2324,

M.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. 8.

compensation has been fixed at certain rates, in one case
"unless otherwise ordered" and in both "subject to future
orders" excludes the possibility of holding that a change
of rate could not be made so far as the written words were
concerned. So it was decided in Eastern R. R. Co. v.
United States, 129 U. S. 391, which answers the argument
that the future orders referred to did not extend to a
change of rates. In that case, to be sure, the railroad made
no protest, but the decision was not placed upon that
ground alone but also upon the effect of the words "unless
otherwise ordered." It is said that the Postmaster
General had no power to change the rates in 1905 when
the papers were signed. But that would not obliterate the
reservation and bind the United States to a different
contract from that which the documents expressed if they
expressed anything more than the rate at which the service
was rendered while it was rendered. The United States
was free to adopt the reservation in its favor and it did
adopt it by the Act of 1907. As the case stands, the Railroad was free, as in the Eastern RailroadCase, to decline to
carry at the new rates, but could not insist upon the old
ones after notice that they had been revised.
It is argued that the Act of 1907 could not be put into
effect without a reweighing. The act directs the Postmaster General to readjust the compensation to be paid
from and after the first day of July, 1907, for the transportation of mail on certain routes "by making the following changes in the present rates per mile per annum
for the transportation of mail on such routes, and hereafter the rates on such routes shall be as follows: On
routes carrying their whole length an average weight of
mail per day of more than five thousand pounds and less
than forty-eight thousand pounds the rate shall be five
per centum 'less than the present rates on all weight
carried in excess of five thousand pounds"; with further
reductions arrived at in like manner. The references to

UNION OIL, CO. v. SMITH.
337.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ownership of the five and that they are so situated that
the sinking of the well upon one will tend to develop, or
to prove the oil-bearing character of the remaining
claims of his group. There was no need of remedial legislation in cases where discovery had been made on the
claims, because such a discovery itself establishes their
oil-bearing character. The mining law requires assessment work as an evidence of good faith. Chambers v.
Harrington, 111 U. S. 350, 353; McCullock v. Murphy,
125 Fed. Rep. 147, 149. Work done for discovering
minerals or in prospecting or developing the claim may
be included in the expenditure required as a condition to
acquiring patent. It is doubtful if there was any authority in the statute for extending the requirement of annual
work to placer claims. Morrison's Mining Rights, 14th
ed., 134. For placer locations, such work need not be
done within the boundaries of the claim. Lindley on
Mines, 2nd ed., p. 1174; Gordon Gulch Bar Placer, 38
L. D. 28, 32.
Oil, except in rare cases, lies in stratified formations,
often at great depth, requiring vast effort and expenditure and much hazard to reach the deposit and determine its nature and permanency. McLemore v. Express
Oil Co., 158 California, 561. In this respect it is like
blind lodes, which gave occasion to the tunnel site laws,
and oil locations should be treated as leniently as tunnel
locations--hence this act. The term "mining claim" is
used here in the abstract, synonymously. with location.
"Annual assessment labor" done upon one of ive or
fewer contiguous locations, where it would tend to the
development 'r to determine the oil-bearing character of
such contiguous locations, applies to work upon unperfected as well as perfected oil locations.
The great purpose was to eliminate the expense of
separate discovery work simultaneously upon five or less
contiguous locations, by centralizing the work upon one,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

249 U. S,

when by that.,the oil-bearing character of the other claims
could be effectively determined. The unit of the group
contemplated is "oil land . . . located as placer
mining claims." Such a unit would not necessarily be
a perfected claim and, in view of the subsequent language
of the act, to imply that it must be such, with discovery
thereon, before the act could be applicable, would be to
import something into the act which is not contained in
its terms.
We submit that the full import of this language is,
that the lands shall be oil lands only in the sense in which
they are pleaded in the respondent's complaint and in
the appellant's amended answer in this action, to be oil
lands; that is, lands adjacent to lands which are demonstrated to be oil lands; recognized to be oil lands; in
the vicinity of which are outcroppings and evidence of
those geological formations which are oil-bearing in their
character, and so situated that those who are familiar
with that department of geology are able to say, as business men th'at probably, if wells shall be sunk in such
lands, oil may, as a good business venture, be produced
therefrom.
The word "located" means simply delimited by having
the boundaries ascertained and monumented on the
ground, identified by having a notice of the location
posted upon the land, and further proclaimed to the public by having such notice of location recorded in the
manner customary under the rules for recording mining
claims.
It has been long recognized, particularly under the
decisions in California, commencing with Miller v. Chrisman, that a claim so located, whether discovery shall
have been made thereon or not, is property, and the
subject of conveyance and the passing of rights therein
fron. one owner to another.
Two or mire'clains may be actually developed by one

UNION OIL CO. ,. SMITH.
337.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

well. And, owing to geological conditions, a well on one
may determine the oil character of the other; under the
recent decisions of the Land Department it may even
amount to a discovery of oil in the other.
Plaintiff in error was not only in possession of the
Rawley claim by its possession and sinking of well on the
contiguous Sampson claim, but at the time of the pretended location of the alleged Schley claim by Smith and
others, and for more than two months prior thereto, was
in the actual possession and occupancy of the Rawley
and actively engaged in its development through lessees
and their assigns, by the work they had begun in November or December, 1909; by their continuation thereof;
by their expending money in good faith in shipping tools
and machinery by rail and wagon road to the claim, and
by their every act, all of which were indicative of possession and development in good faith. A party may be in
legal possession, though not personally on the land at the
time of a stranger's entry. Davis v. Dennis, 43 Washington, 54. And see Weed v-. Snook, 144 California, 439,
445; Phillips v. Brill, 17 Wyoming, 26.
Roadways are necessities, and when such have been
constructed, on the claim, for the manifest purpose of
assisting in the development of the mine, such as transporting material and machinery-to the mine, it is a legitimate expenditure. Doherty v. Morris, 17 Colorado, 105;
Sexton v. Washington Co., 55 Washington, 380; Emily
Lode, 6 L. D. 220, 222.
Counsel further claimed that in the years 1909 and
1910 more than $2400.00 worth of actual improvement
was done by defendant through its lessees and sub-lessees
upon the Rawley claim and that the earliest work claimed
by the plaintiff was not only later, but, for several reasons
assigned, could not enure to his benefit.
No appearance for defendant in error.

OCTOBEI{ TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

249 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case presents, for the first time in this court, the
question of the meaning and effect of an Act of Congress
approved February 12, 1903, c. 548, 32 Stat. 825, which
reads as follows:
"An Act Defining what shall constitute and providing
for assessments on oil mining claims.
"Be it Enacted, etc., That where oil lands are located

under the provisions of title thirty-two, chapter six,
Revised Statutes of the United States, as placer mining
claims, the annual assessment labor upon such claims
may be done upon any one of a group of claims lying
contiguous and owned by the same person or corporation,
not exceeding five claims in all: Provided, That said labor
will tend to the development or to determine the oil-bearing character of such contiguous claims."
Smith, now defendant in error, being in possession of a
placer mining claim known as the "Schley claim," comprising a tract of 160 acres of land in the State of California, part of the public domain of the United States,
under a location notice posted and recorded by himself
and seven other qualified persons who afterwards conveyed their interests to him, and being engaged in the diligent prosecution of work for the purpose of finding oil
upon the claim, brought an action in a California state
court to determine adverse claims, making the Union Oil
Company of California defendant.
Defendant asserted a superior right of possession under
a mineral land location of the same ground under the
name of the "Rawley claim," made by eight qualified
associates in the year 1883, many years before plaintiff's
location. No discovery of oil or other minerals had ever
been made upon the ground by either of the claimants
or by any other person. But at the time plaintiff and
his associate, located it defendant, although not then

UNION OIL CO. v. SMITH.
337.

343

Opinion of the Court.

attualiy occupying this ground, was in actual occupation
of a contiguous claim of 160 acres known as the "Sampson
claim" upon which it then was drilling and afterwards
continued to drill a well for 'the discovery of oil, the well
being 1,000 feet distant from the boundary line of the
disputed claim. Defendant claimed the right of possession of five contiguous claims, including the "RawleySchley" and the "Sampson," under locations regularly
made in. all respects save discovery. Defendant pleaded
and proved . these facts, and also introduced evidence
warranting a finding that its boring work on the "Sampson
claim" tended to determine the oil-bearing character of
the "Rawley-Schley claim."
It was and is defenaant's contention that by virtue of
the Act of 1903 one who has acquired 'the possessory
rights of locators before discovery in five contiguous claims
taken up as oil-bearing lands may preserve and maintain
an inchoate right to all of them by means of a cotitinuous
actual occupation of one, coupled with diligent prosecution in good faith of a sufficient amount of discovery
work thereon, provided- such work tends also to determine
the oil-bearing character of the other claims.
The superior court of the county. and, on appeal, the
Supreme Court of the State overruled this contention and
gave judgment in favor of the plaintiff (166 California
217); and the chse Was brought here by writ of error under
§ 237, Judicial Code, prior to the amendment of September 6, .1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726.
It will be observed that both parties are in the position
of prospectors or explorers upon'the public domain-locators without discovery; and, in order to appreciate correctly what fect, if any, the Act of 1903 has upon
their rights, it is important to have in mind what is meant
by "annual assessment labor," and Tne part it plays in
the qperations .of miners unqei the mining laws of the
United States.

044

OCTlBER TERM, "191&
Opinion of the Court.

Y249 U. S.

By §.2319, Rev. 8tats., all .valuable mineral deposits

in lands belonging to the United States are declared to be
"free and open to exploration and purchase,;'and the
lands in which they are found to occupation and purchase,
by citizens of the United States and those who ,have declared their intention to become such, under regulations
prescribed by law, and according to the local customs or
rules of miners in the several mining-districts, so. far as
the same are applicable and not inconsistent with the
laws of the United States." By §2320 it is declared:
"No location of a mining-claim 'shall be.-made until the
discovery of the vein or lode within the limits of the
claim located." By §-2322 locators of mining locations
on the public domain "so long as'they cornply with the
laws Of the United States, and with State, territorial,
and local regulations not in conflict with the laws of the
United States governing their possessory title, shall
have the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of
all the surface inclided within the lines of their locations,
and of all veins," etc. By § 2324: "The miners of each
mining-district may make regulations not in conflict
with the laws of the United States, or with the laws of
the State or Territory in which the district is situated,

governing the location, manner of recording, amount of
work necessary to hold possession of a mining-claim, subject to the following requirements: The location must be
distinctly marked on the ground so that its boundaries
can be readily traced.

.

.

.

On each claim located after

the tenth day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-two,
and until a .patent has been issued therefor, not less than
one hundred dollars' worth of lab6r shall be performed
or improvements made during each year. On all claims
located prior to the tenth day of May, eighteen hundred
and seventy-two, ten dollars' worth of labor shall be
perfoxmed or improvements made by the tenth day of
June, leighteen hundred and seventy-four, and each year

UNION OIL CO. v. SMITH.
337.

Opinion of the Court.

thereafter, for each one hundred feet in length along the
vein until a patent has been issued therefor; but where
such claims are held in common, such expenditure may
be made upon any one claim; and upon a failure to comply
with these conditions, the claim or mine upon which
such failure occurred shall be open to relocationin the
same manner as if no location of the same had ever been
'made, provided that the original locators, their heirs,
assigns, or legal representatives, have not resumed work
upon the.claim after failure and before such location."
Section 2325 and sections following permit a patent to be
obtained for a mineral claim, and regulate the procedure.
By § 2325 the, applicant for patent. is required (among
other things) to file "a certificate of the United States
surveyor-general that five hundred dollars' worth of
labor has been expended or improvements made upon the
claim by himself or grantors"; and, upon his compliance
with this and other requirements, if after publication of
notice for sixty days no adverse claim is filed, or (§ 2326)
such claim, having been filed, has proceeded to adjudication in a court of competent jurisdiction with result
favorable to the applicant, upon a payment of five dollars
per acre and proper fees a patent is issued for the claim or
such portion thereof as has been decided to be in the
rightful possession of the applicant. By § 2329 placer
claims are made subject to entry and patent under' like
circumstances and conditions and upon similar proceedings as are provided for vein or lode claims; the purchase
price of placer claims being fixed, by § 2333, at two dollars
and fifty cents per acre:
Under this legislation petroleum for many years was
regarded as a mineral, although-not specially mentioned
as such, and claims to oil'lands were disposed of by the
Land Department Under the provisions of law relating
to placer claims, with a single 6xceptjon afterwards overruled. Union Oil Co., 23 L. D. 222, decided Augunt 27,

(C3TOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

1896; Union Oil Co., (Ot Review), 25 L. D. 351, decided
November 6, 1897. It was in order to obviate the effect
of the former of these two decisions that Congress passed
the Act of February 11, 1897, c. 216, 29 Stat. 526, which
declared: "That any person authorized to enter lands
under the mining laws of the United States may enter
and obtain patent to lands containing petroleum .or
other mineral oils, and chiefly valuable therefor, under,
the provisions of the laws relating to placer mineral
claims"; with a proviso saving petroleum land theretofore
filed upon, claimed or improved as mineral but not yet
patented. See House Rep. No. 2655, 54th Cong., 2d
sess.; 29 Cong. Rec., Pt. 2, p. 1409; Burke v. Southern
Pacific R. R. Co., 234 U. S. 669, 678.
Aside from the suggested effect of the Act of 1903, it
is clear that in order to create valid rights or initiate a
title as against the United States a discovery of mineral
is essential. Section 2320, Rev. Stats.; Waskey v. Hammer,
223 U. S. 85, 90. Nevertheless, § 2319 extends an express
invitation to all qualified persons to explore the lands of
the United States for valuable mineral deposits, and this
and the following sections hold out to one who succeeds
in making discovery the promise of a full reward. Those
who, being qualified, proceed in good faith to make such
explorations and enter peaceably upon vacant lands of
the United States for that purpose are not treated as mere
trespassers, but as licensees or tenants at will. For since,
as a practical matter, exploration must precede the discovery of minerals, and some oceupation of the land
ordinarily is necessary for adequate and systematic exploration, legal recognition of the pedis possessio of a
bona fid, and qualified prospector is universally regarded
as a necessity. It is held that upon the public domain a
miner may hold the place in which he may be working
against all others having no better right, and while he
remains in possession, diligently working towards discov-

UNION OIL (710.
3.37.

r. SNMITH."

Opinion of the Court.

ery, is entitled-at least for a reasonable time.' to be
protected against forcible, fraudulent, and clandestine
intrusions upon his possession. Zollars v. Evans, 5 Fed.
Rep. 172, 173; Crossman v. Pendery, 8 Fed. Rep. 693, 694;
Johanson v. White, 160 Fed. Rep. 901; Hanson v. Craig,
161 Fed. Rep. 861, 863; 170 Fed. Rep. 62, 65; Gem mleU
v. Swain, 28 Montana, 331, 335; New England &c. Oil Co.
v. Congdon, 152 California, 211; Whiting v. Straup, 17
Wyoming, 1, 19, 23; Phillipsv. Brill, 17 Wyoming, 26, 38.'
And it has come to be generally recognized that while
discovery is the indispensable fact and the marking and
recording of the claim dependent upon it, yet the order
of time in which these acts occur is not essential in the
acquisition from the United States of the exclusive right
of possession of the discovered minerals or the obtaining
of a patent therefor, but that discovery may follow after
location and give validity to the claim as of the time of
discovery, provided no rights of third parties have intervened. Creede & Cripple Creek Mining Co. v. Uinta
Tunnel Mining Co., 196 U. S. 337, 345, 348-352; Weed
v. Snook, 144 California 439, 443.
In the California courts the right of a locator before
discovery while in possession of his claim and prosecuting
exploration work is recognized as a substantial interest,
extending not only as far as the pedis possessio but to the
limits of the claii as located; so that if a duly qualified
person peaceably and in good faith enters upon vacant
lands of the United States prior to discovery but for the
purpose of discovering oil or other valuable mineral
deposits, there being no valid mineral location upon it,
such person has the right to maintain possession as against
Two recent acts of Congress contain recognition of the status of a
bona fide occupant of oil-bearing lands in the public domain prior to
discovery. Act of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 847, e. 421, § 2, first proviso);
Act of March 2, 1911 (36 Stat. 1015, c. 201). See ConsolidatedMutual
Oil Co. v. United State. 245 Fed. Rep. 521, 524, 527, 529.

OUFOBER '['EIM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.,

violent, fraudulent, and surreptitious intrusions so long
,is
he continues to occupy the land to the exclusion of
others and diligently and in good faith prosecutes the
work of endeavoring to discover mineral thereon. Miller
v. Chrisman, 140 California, 440, 447 (case affirmed 197
U. S. 313); Weed v. Snook, ubi supra; Merced Oil Mining
Co. v. Patterson, 153 California, 624, 625; 162 California,
3 8, 361; McLemore v. Express Oil Co., 158 California,
559, 562.
To what extent the possessory right of an explorer
before discovery is to be deduced from the invitation extended in § 2319, to what extent it is to be regarded as a
local regulation of the kind recognized by that section
and the following ones, and to what extent it derives
force from the authority of the mining States to regulate
"the possession of the public lands in the interest of peace
and good order, are questions with which we are not now
concerned. Nor need we stop to inquire whether the
right is limited to the ground actually occupied in the
process of exploration, or extends to the limits of the
claim. These questions and others that suggest themselves are not raised by the present record, which concerns itself solely with the rights asserted by the lefendant under the Act of 1903. Whatever the nature and
-extent of a possessory right before discovery, all authorities agree that such possession may be maintained only
by continued actual occupancy by a qualified locator or
his representatives engaged in persistent and diligent
prosecution of work looking to the discovery of mineral.
But, by the provisions of the Revised Statutes above
cited, a discovery of mineral by a qualified locator upon
unappropriated public land initiates rights much more
substantial as against the United States and all the world.
If he locates, marks, and records his claim in accordance
with § 2324 and the pertinent local laws and regulations,
he has, by the terms of § 2322, an exclusive right of pos-

UNION OIL CO. r. SMITH.
337.

. 349

Opinion of the Court..

session to the extent of his claim as located, with the
right to extract the minerals, even to exhaustion, without
paying any royalty to the United States as owner, and
without ever applying for a patent or §eeking to -obtain
title to the fee; subject, however, to the performance of
the annual labor specified in § 2324, for upon his failure
to do this the claim is open to relocation by others at any
time before resumption of work upon it by the original
lootor.
If not content to rest upon the right conferred by
2322, the qualified locator may obtain a patent for his
claim by complying with the conditions- prescribed by
§§ 2325 and 2326.
But, even without patent, the possessory right of a
qualified locator after discovery of minerals upon the
claim is a property right in the full sense, unaffected by
the fact that the paramount title to the land is in the
United States (Rev. Stats., § 910), and it is capable of
transfer by conveyance, inheritance, or devise. Forbes
v. Gracey, 94 U. S. 762, 763, 767; Belk v. Meagher, 104
U. S. 279, 283, 285; Del Monte Mining Co. v. Last Chance
Mining Co., 171 U. S. 55, 78; Elder v. Wood, 208 U. S.
226, 232.
Actual and continuous occupation of a valid mining
location based upon discovery is not essential to the
preservation of the possessory right. The right is lost
only by abandonment, as by non-performance of the
annual labor required by § 2324. Belk v. Meagher, 104
U. S. 279, 283, 284; Black v. Elkhorn Mining Co., 163
U. S. 445, 450; Farrell v. Lockhart, 210 U. S. 142, 147;
Bradford v. Morrison, 212 U. S. 389, 394.
After this brief review of the mining laws there is
little danger of mistaking the true intent and meaning of the Act of Congress of February 12, 1903.
Title thirty-two, chapter six, Revised Statutes, therein
referred to, embraces the sections we have) cited. , And,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

it is not to be doubted that the terms "assessments" and
"annual assessment labor" refer to the annual labor
required by § 2324, that being commonly called by
miners the "annual assessment" or the "assessment
work," and so described in many judicial opinions and
in at least two acts of Congress, passed respectively
November 3, 1893, c. 12, 28 Stat. 6, and July 2, 1898,
c. 563, 30 Stat. 651. See El Paso Brick Co. v. McKnight,
233 U. S. 250, 255, 256, 258..
And it is important to observe that in these acts of
Congress, as in the practice of miners, "assessment
work" had nothing to do with locating or holding a claim
before discovery. On the contrary it was the condition
subsequent prescribed by Congress to be performed in
order to preserve the exclusive right to the possession of
a valid mineral land location upon which discovery had
been made. McLemore v. Express Oil Co., 158 California,
559, 563. Hence the declaration in the Act of 1903 that
where oil lands are located as placer mining claims "the
annual assessment labor upon such claims may be done
upon any one of a group of claims lying contiguous and
owned by the same person," indicates simply the legislative purpose that the necessary assessment work if done
upon one of the group. should have the same effect as if
properly distributed among the several claims; that is to
say, the effect of preserving the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment conferred by § 2322 with respect to
unpatented claims based upon a previous discovery of oil.
"Group assessment work" did not originate with the
Act of 1903. From an early period the economy of operating contiguous mines or claims by a single system was
recognized. In § 5 of the Act of May 10, 1872, c. 152,
17 Stat. 92, now § 2324, Rev. Stats., it was provided
with, respect to the annual labor that "where such claims
are held in common such expenditure may be made upon
any one claim." Questions as to the precise meaning of

UNION OIL CO. v. SMITH.
337.

Opinion of the Court.

this naturally arose, and it was determined that it applied only to contiguous claims, and that the work must
be done for the common benefit or for the purpose of
developing all the claims. Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104
U. S. 636, 655; Jackson v. Roby, 109 U. S. 440, 444; Chambers v. Harrington, 111 U. S. 350, 353; Anvil Hydraulic
Co. v. Code, 182 Fed. Rep. 205, 206.
It is plain that the draftsman of the Act of 1903 had
this settled rule in mind, for the bill as introduced, with
enacting clause in the same form as finally passed, had
this proviso: "Provided, That said labor will benefit or
tend to the development of such contiguous claims."
By committee amendment in the House the words "benefit or" were struck out, and after the word "development"
the following were inserted: "or to determine the oilbearing character," presumably regarded as peculiarly appropriate to oil lands. House Rep. No. 2657, 57th Cong.,
1st sess.; Senate Rep. No. 2756, 57th Cong., 2d sess.; 36
Cong. Rec., Pt. 1, p. 83; Pt. 2, pp. 1561, 1682. The committee report contains this explanation of the object of the
bill: "The law now requires that upon each mining claim
there shall be performed each and every year at least
$100 worth of work. The courts have held with reference
to lode-mining claims that this annual labor may be done
upon any one of a group of mining claims, provided the
said work tends to benefit the entire group, but the Land
Department of the Government seems to be of opinion
that the annual labor upon placer-mining claims must
be done upon each of said claims. There is good reason
for this holding when applied to the ordinary placer
claim containing deposits of gold, because in such case
the" gold lies upon the surface or near the surface, and
general development work being upon and near the surface does not tend to benefit other claims than the one
upon which the work is actually done, but in the case of
oil-mining claims the. situation is different. It is neces-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

sary to bore wells for great depths in order to determine
whether or not oil exists in paying quantities. These
wells are expensive, and it is the opinion of the committee
that the industry itself will be more benefited by permitting the owner to spend his means in sinking a single
well in order to demonstrate the possibilities of the property than it would to require him to distribute his means
among several claims. In other words, it is better that
$500 should be spent in one place until the character of
the oil deposit has been demonstrated than it is to require
the same amount of money to be spent in five different
places."
The argument for plaintiff in error, while conceding the
general rule to have been established that assessment
work could avail nothing except when performed upon
or for the benefit of a claim in which a discovery of mineral already had been made, insists that the difficulty
and great expense attendant upon the sinking of wells to
make discovery of oil made it evident that the application
of the doctrine was a great burden upon the oil miner;
and that this, having been, brought to the attention of
Congress, was the moving cause of the emactment of the
Act of February 12, 1903. This contention finds no support in the enacting clause, and but little in the proviso.
It gives to the somewhat indefinite language of the proviso an effect that would greatly enlarge instead of confining the meaning of what precedes, and would render
the statute a radical departure from the previous policy
of the mining laws. The legislative history of the act,
as well as its phraseology, fails to support the contention.
Nor is there great force in the suggestion that with
respect to oil clahns upon which discovery already had
been made there was no need to encourage the doing of
work tending to determine their oil-bearing character,
because this would already have been established by the
antecedent discovery. It hardly is necessary to say that

UNION 0iL CO. v. SMII'H.
337.

Opinion of the Court.

the discovery of oil upon several contiguous claimns does
not render it wholly unimportant that assessment work
thereafter done by the common owner upon one of the
claims, in order to be credited to him as if it had been
distributed among the several claims, shall be of general
benefit to the group. This is the object of the act, and
except as the proviso specifically declares "determination of oil-bearing character" to be of benefit to the contiguous claims, little is added to the effect of § 2324,
Rev. Stats., respecting group assessment work. But we
cannot declare a determination of the "oil-bearing
character" of a claim upon which oil already has been.
discovered to be a matter so idle as to require us to seek
a strained construction of the statute.
In our opinion the act shows no purpose to dispense
with discovery as an essential v; a valid oil location or
to break down in anywise the recognized distinction
between the pedis possessio of a prospector doing work
for the purpose of discovering oil and the more substantial
right of possession of one who has made a discovery and
performs annual development work to maintain his
right to the mineral until patent is obtained. Hence the
Supreme Court of California did not err in overruling the
contention that by force of the act discovery work upon
the "Sampson claim" having a tendency to determine
the oil-bearing character of the contiguous "RawleySchley claim" conferred upon plaintiff in error inchoate
rights in the latter claim, of which it was not in possession
and upon which it had made no discovery.
J.udgment affirmed.

