COLLETT v. ADAMS.
Counsel for Appellant.

COLLETT, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF ESTATE OF COTTEN, BANKRUPT, v. ADAMS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT-OF TEXAS.
No. 274.

Submitted March 21, 1919.-Decided April 28, 1919.

Under the Bankruptcy Law, as amended in 1903 and 1910 [§§ 23b,
60b, and 2 (20), ] a suit by the trustee to set aside a transfer of
property, as a preference voidable under § 60b, and to recover the
property or its value, is cognizable by the District Court within
whose district the property is situate, though not the court in which
the bankruptcy proceeding is pending, and without regard to the
consent of the defendant or the residence of the trustee, the bankrupt or the defendant. P. 547.
In this respect, the jurisdiction is the same whether the suit is based
on § 60b, or §§ 67e and 70e, as amended. Id.
Such a suit is local, in the sense of Jud. Code, § 54, so that a defendant
residing in another district of the same State may be served there
with original process. P. 550.
Such local suits, apart from the terms of the Bankruptcy Act, are
excepted by § 51 of the Code from the general provision that a
defendant may not be sued in any district other than that of which
he is an inhabitant. Id.
Jurisdiction of the District Court over a suit by a trustee in bankruptcy to set aside a transfer, held not affected by the pendency of
a prior action for damages brought by the transferee against the
bankrupt in a state court, which'acquired no lien on the property.
Id.
The plaintiff's claim, held to be sufficiently substantial to entitle him
to a decision on the merits in the court below. Id.
Reversed.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Wilmer S. Hunt and Mr. H. B. Seay foi appellant.
Mr. Perry G. Dedmon and Mr.. Walter . Seam were on
the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This suit in equity was brought in the District Court
for the Southern District of Texas by a trustee in bankruptcy. A motion to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction was sustained, and the propriety of that ruling
is the sole question presented on this direct appeal. See
Jud. Code, § 238; c. 22, 38 Stat. 804.
The allegations of the bill are to this effect: March 17,
1917, a petition in bankruptcy against Ford C. Cotten
was filed in the District Court for the Northern District
of Texas, on which in due course he was adjudged a bankrupt. The plaintiff became the trustee. On December 22,
1916, and for some time theretofore, Cotten was the owner
and in possession of certain real and personal property
in Wharton County, Texas, and on that day transferred
the same to James R. Adams, the defendant. Adams was
then asserting that Cotten was indebted to him in the
sum of $45,311 for property obtained from him through
deceit and fraud, and a suit to enforce that claim was
pending in a state court in Collin County, Texas. In
August, 1916, a writ of attachment in that suit had been
levied on the property here in question, but under the
laws of Texas the attachment lien was void and of no
effect. The transfer from Cotten to Adams was made with
the purpose of effecting a settlement of that suit and the
claim involved therein, and at the time of the transfer
the parties entered into a written agreement wherein it
was stipulated that if Cotten was not adjudged a bankrupt
on a petition presented within four months after the transfer was filed for record, Adams should dismiss the suit
and pay the unpaid costs, and, if on a petition so filed
Gotten was adjudged a bankrupt, Adams should-have the

COLLETT v. ADAMS.

,545.

Opinion of the Court.

right to prosecute the suit to judgment and to enforce all
liens acquired through the attachment. The deed transferring the real property was filed for record shortly after
it was executed, but the agreement never was so filed and
constituted a secret understanding between the parties.
Following.the transfer Adams, took possession of the property, real and personal; was still in possession, claiming
title and exercising the rights of an owner, when this bill
was brought, and had refused, on demand made, to surrender the property to the trustee. At the time of the
transfer Cotten was insolvent and intended thereby to
effect a preference in favor of Adams, all of which the
latter knew or had reasonable cause to believe; and in
fact the transfer resulted in such a preference, for the
assets were not sufficient to pay all creditors. The property transferred was not exempt, but was such as creditors
lawfully could subject to the payment of their claims.
Some or all of the personalty has been disposed of by
Adams. The real property is in the Southern District
of Texas, where this suit was' brought. Cotten and the
trustee reside in the Northern District, where the bankruptcy proceeding is pending, and Adams resides in the
Eastern District. The suit in the state court has not been
dismissed, but is still pending in substantially the same
condition as when the transfer was made.
The bill contains a prayer for the recovery of the real
property or its value, for an accounting as to the proceeds
of the personalty, and for other relief the detail and propriety of which require no attention here.
The motion which the court below sustained challenged
its jurisdiction on the grounds (1) that the bill could not
be brought in that court without the defendant's consent,
which was not given; (2) that the bill was not brought
in the district where the bankruptcy proceeding was pending or in that of the residence of the defendant, and (3)
that the subject-matter of the- bill already was involved

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

in the pending suit in the state court in Collin County,
a court of competent jurisdiction, and adequate relief
could be had in that suit.
On its face the bill shows very plainly that it is brought
to avoid a transfer by the bankrupt, which the trustee
regards as a voidable preference within the meaning of
§ 60b of the Bankruptcy Act, and to recover the property
transferred or its value. There are also present some
indications of a purpose to claim relief under §§ 67e and
70e, but this does not call for special comment, for in
point of jurisdiction there is no distinction between a suit
under these sections and one under § 60b.
It well may be that under the original terms of the
Bankruptcy Act, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, the bill could not
have been brought in the court below without the defendant's consent, Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S.
524, but the act was amended materially in 1903 and
again in 1910 (c. 487, 32 Stat. 797; c. 412, 36 Stat. 838),
and it was after those amendments became effective that
the bill was brought. The pertinent provisions, with the
amendments affecting jurisdiction in italics, are as follows:
See. 23b. "Suits by the trustee shall only be brought
or prosecuted in the courts where the bankrupt, whose
estate is being administered by such trustee, might have
brought or prosecuted them if the proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted, unless by consent of the
proposed defendant, except suits for the recovery of property
under section sixty, subdivision b; section sixty-seven, subdivision e; and section seventy, subdivision e."
Sec. 60b. "If a bankrupt shall have procured or suffered
a judgment to be entered against him in favor of any person or have made a transfer of any of his property, and
if, at the time of the transfer, or of the entry of the judgment, or of the recording or registering of the transfer
if by law recording or registering thereof is required, and

" COLLETT v. ADAMS.
545.

Opinion of the Court.

being within four months before the filing of the petition
in bankruptcy or after the filing thereof and before the
adjudication, the bankrupt be insolvent and the judgment or transfer then operate as a preference, and the
person receiving it or to be benefited thereby, or his
agent acting therein, shall then have reasonable cause to
believe that the enforcement of such judgment or transfer would effect a preference, it shall be voidable by the
trustee and he may recover the property or its value from
such person. And for the purpose of' such recovery any
court of bankruptcy, as hereinbefore defined, and any state
court which would have had jurisdiction if bankruptcy had
not intervened, shall have concurrent jurisdiction." I
Sections 1 (8) and 2 define "courts of bankruptcy" as
including the several District Courts of the United States,
and § 2 (20) invests the courts of bankruptcy with power
to "exercise ancillary jurisdiction over persons or property
within their respective territoriallimits in aid of a receiver
or trustee appointed in any bankruptcy proceedings pending
in any other court of bankruptcy."
The amendments are couched in plain words and effect
a material change in the jurisdiction of suits by trustees
to avoid preferential transfers and recover the property
or its value under § 60b. The exception engrafted on
§ 23b takes such suits out of the restrictive provisions
of that section; the sentence added to § 60b makes them
cognizable in the courts of bankruptcy, aswell as in such
state courts as could have entertained them if bankruptcy
had not intervened, and the new clause in § 2 dispels any
doubt that otherwise might exist respecting the power
of a court of bankruptcy other than the one in which the
bankruptcy proceeding is pending to entertain such a
suit where the property sought to be recovered is within
its territorial limits.
I A sentence like that in italics was added to §§ 67e and 70e by c.
487, 32 Stat. 797.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

The court below is a court of bankruptcy and the property in question is within its territorial limits, so the
jurisdiction under the terms of the Bankruptcy Act is
plain. The suit is a local one in the sense of §54 of the
Judicial Code and this enabled the court to reach the
defendant, who resides in another district in the same
State, by original process sent to and served in the district of his residence. Such a suit, apart from the term;
of the Bankruptcy Act, is excepted by § 51 of the Code
from the general provision that a defendant may not
be sued in any district other than that of which he is an
inhabitant.
Of the objection based on the pendency of the suit in
the state court in Collin County it is enough to say that
the trustee is not a party to that suit and that it has none
of the elements of a suit to avoid the transfer in question.
Whether if this were otherwise it would affect the jurisdiction of the court below as a court of the United States
we need not consider. See Louisville Trust Co. v. Knott,
191 U. S. 225; Courtney v. Pradt,196 U. S. 89; Mississippi
Railroad Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.,
225 U. S. 272, 279.
We conclude that the court should have overruled the
objections urged against its jurisdiction, but we intimate
no opinion on the merits other than that the case made by
the bill has enough of substance to entitle the plaintiff
to a decision therein -in the court below in regular course.
See Geneva FurnitureCo. v. Karpen, 238 U. S. 254, 258-259.
Decree reversed.

