PANAMA 11.1. CO. v. BOSSE.
34.

41

Syllabus.

tion as that country chooses to allow in accordance with
its own views of public policy." And this conclusion was
reached upon the effect of the remitted tax and not upon
.the word used to designate it. In other words, the decision was not determined by a consideration of costs of
manufacture or their reimbursement nor by the require;
ments of the policies of the exporting country. It regarded the fact and effect of the remitted excise.
Downs v. United States, 187 U. S. 496, is a like example,
and direct And indirect bounties. are illustrated. As an
instance of the former the amount paid upon the production of sugar under the Act of Congress of 1890 is
adduced, and also the "drawback" (the word of the
statute is used) upon certain articles exported; as instances of the latter, that is, of indirect bounties, the
remission of taxes upon the exportation of articles which
are subject to a tax when sold or consumed in the country
of their production is given, and, as another example,
the laws permitting distillers of spirits to export the same
without payment of an internal revenue tax or other
burden.
We consider further discussion unnecessary and the
judgment of the Court of Customs Appeals is
Affirmed.

PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY v. BOSSE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 203.

Submitted January 31, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

An order of the President continuing in force for the government of
the Canal Zone "the laws of the land, with which the inhabitants
are familiar," etc., was construed by the Government as including

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
249 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Civil Code of Panama, and was followed by an act of Congress
ratifying the laws, orders, etc., promulgated by the Prc-,ident. Held,
that the order merely embodied the rule that a change of sovereignty
does not end existing private law, and that the act neither fastened
upon the Zone a specific civil-law interpretation oL the Code nor
overthrew the principle of common-law construction adopted and
applied by the Supreme Court of the Zone before the act was passed.
P. 44.
The provisions of the Civil Code of the Canal Zone touching the relation of master and servant are not inconsistent with the commonlaw rule holding the former liable for personal injuries caused by the
negligence of the latter while in the course of his employment; and
it is not erroneous for the Supreme Court of the Zone to apply the
common-law interpretation, at least in cases arising since the Zone
was expropriated and became peopled only by the employees of
the Canal, of the Panama Railroad and of licensee steamship lines
and oil companies. P. 45.
Pain may be cousidered in fixing damages for personal injuries in the
Canal Zone. P. 47.
239 Fed. Rep. 303, affirmed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Feuille for plaintiff in error.
F. Van Dame was also on the brief.

Mr. Walter

Mr. Theodore C. Hinckley and Mr. Joseph W.
for defendant in error.

Bailey

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for personal injuries and consequent
suffering alleged to have been caused, on July 3, 1916, by

the Railroad Company's chauffeur's negligent driving of a
motor omnibus at an excessive rate of speed in a crowded

thorpughfarr in the Canal Zone.

The suit was brought

in the District Court of the Canal Zone. The defendant,
the plaintiff in error, demurred to the declaration generAly, and also demurred specifically to that part that
claimed damages for pain. The demurrer was overruled

PANAMA R. H. CO. r. BOSSI:.
41.

Opinion of the Court.

and there was a trial, at which, after the evidence was
in, the defendant requested the Court to direct a verdict
in its favor and, failing that, to instruct the jury that the
plaintif could not recover for physical pain. The instructions were refused, the jury found a verdict for the
plaintiff and the judgment was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 239 Fed. Rep. 303. 152 C. C. A. 291.
Followed in PanamaR. R. Co. v. Toppin, 250 Fed. Rep.
989.
The main question in the case is whether the liability
of master for servant familiar to the common law can be
applied to this accident arising in the Canal Zone. Subordinate to that is the one already indicated, whether
there can be a recovery for physical pain. There is some
slight attempt also to argue that the defendant's negligence was not the immediate cause of the injury, but as
that depended upon the view that the jury might take
of the facts and as there was evidence justifying the
verdict, we shall confine ourselves to the two abovementioned questions of law.
By the Act of Congress of April 28, 1904, c. 1758, ยง 2,
33 Stat. 429, temporary powers of government over the
Canal Zone were vested in such persons and were to be
exercised in such manner as the President should direct.
An executive order of the President addressed to the
Secretary of War on May 9, 1904, directed that the
power of the Isthmian Commission should be exercised
under the Secretary's direction. The order contained
this passage, "The laws of the land, with which the
inhabitants are fp.miliar, and which were in force on
February 26, 1904, will continue in force in the canal
zone . .
until altered or annulled by the said commission;" with power to the Commission to legislate,
subject to approval by the Secretary. This was construed to keep in force the Civil Code of the Republic
of Panama, which was translated into English and pub-

OCTOBER TElM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court,.

249) U. S.

lished by thb Isthmian Canal Commission in 1905. By
the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, c. 390, ยง 2, 37
Stat. 560, 561, "All laws, orders, regulations, and ordinances adopted and promulgated in the Canal Zone by
order of the President for the government and sanitation
of the Canal Zone and the constructicn of the Panama
Canal are hereby ratified and confirmed as valid and
binding antil Congress shall otherwise provide.". On
these facts it is argued that the defendant's liability is
governed by the Civil Code alone as it would be construed
in countries where the civil law prevails and that so
construed the code does not sanction the application of
the rule respondeat superior to the present case.

But there are other facts to be 'taken into account
before a decision can be reached. On December 5, 1912,
acting under the authority of the befor'e-mentioned Act
'pf August 24, 01912, ยง 3, the President declarea; all the
and 'within the limies of the Canal Zone to be necessary
for the construction &c. of the Panama Canal and directed the Chairman of the Isthmian Commission to
take possession of it, with provisions for the extinguishment of all adverLe claims and titles. It is admitted by
the plaintiff in error that the Canal Zone at the present
time is peopled only by the employees of the Canal, the
Panama Railroad, and the steamship lines and oil companies permitted to do business in the Zone under license.
If it be true that the Civil Code would have been construed to exclde the defendant's liability in the present
case if the Zone had remained within the j urisdiction of
Colombia it does not follow that the liability is no greater
as. things stanrnow. The President's order continuing
the law then in force was merely the embodiment of the
rule that a change of sovereignty does not put an end to
existing private law, and the ratification of that order
by the Act of August 24, 1912, no more fastened upon
the Zone a specific interpretation of the former Civil

PANAMA R. R. CO. r. BOSSE.
41.

Opinion of the Court.

Code than does a statute adopting the common law
fasten upon a territory a specific doctrine of the English
Courts. Wear v. Kansas, 245 U. S. 154, 157. Probably
the general ratification did io more than to supply any
power that by accident might have been wanting. Honolulu Rapid Transit & Land Co. v. Wilder, 211 U. S. 137,
142. Ir.the matter of personal relations and duties of
the kind now before us the supposed interpretation
would not be a law with which the present "inhabitants
are familiar," in the language of the President's order,
but on the contrary an exotic imposition of a rule opposed
to the common understanding of men. For whatever
may be thought of the untualified principle that a master must answer for the torts of his servant committed
within the scope of his employment, probably there are
few rules of the common law so familiar to all, educated
and uneducated alike.
As early as 1910 the Supreme Court of the Canal Zone
announced that it would look to the common law in the
construction of the Colombia statutes, Kung Ching Chong
v. Wing Chong, 2 Canal Zone Sup. Ct. Rep. 25, 30; and
following that announcement, in January, 1913, held that
"at least so far as the empresarios of railroads are concerned" the liability of master for servant would be maintained in the Zone to the same extent as recognized by
the common law. Fitzpatrick v. Panama R. R. Co., id.,
111, 121, 128. The principle certainly was not overthrown
by the Act, of 1912. It is not necessary to dwell upon
the drift toward the common-law doctrine noticeable in
some civil-law jurisdictions at least, or to consider how
far we should go if the language of the Civil Code were
clearer than it is. It is enough that the language is not
necessarily inconsistent with the common-law rule. By
Art. 2341, in the before-mentioned translation, "He who
shall have been guilty of an offense or fault, which has
caused another damage, is obliged to repair it, without

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U.S.

prejudice to the principal penalty which the law imposes"
.
By Art. 2347, "Every person is liable
not only for his own acts'for the purpose of the indemnity
of damage, but also for the acts of those who may be
under his care," illustrating by the cases of father, tutor,
husband, &c. By Art. 2349, "Masters shall be responsible
for the damage caused by their domestics or servants, on
the occasion of a service rendered by the latter to the
former; but they shall not be responsible if it be proved
or appear that on such occasion the domestics or servants
conducted themselves in an -improper manner, which the
masters had no means to foresee or prevent by the employment .of ordinary care and the competent authority;
in such case all responsibility for the damage shall fall
upon said domestics or servants." The qualification in
this last article may be taken to refer to acts outside the
scope of the employment. It cannot iefer to all torts,
for that would. empty the first part of meaning. A master
must be taken to foresee that sooner or later a servant
driving a motor will be likely to have a collision, which a
jury may hold to have been due to his negligence, whatever care has been used in the employment of the man.
We are satisfied that it would be a sacrifice of substance
to form if we should reverse a decision, the principle of
which has been accepted by all the judges accustomed to
deal with the locality, in deference to the possibility that
a different interpretation might have been reached if the
Civil Code had continued to regulate a native population
and to be construed by native courts. It may be that
they would not have distinguished between a negligent
-act done in the performance of the master's business and
a malicious one in which the servant went outside of the
scope of that for which he was employed, But we are by
no means sure that they would not have decided as we
decide. At all events we are of opinion that the ruling
was correct. As we do not rely for our conclusion upon a

SCHENCK v. UNITEI) STATES.
41.-

Syllabus.

Colombia act specially concerning the empresarios of
railroads, we do not discuss a suggestion, made only, it is
said, to show that the act is inapplicable, to the effect
that the charter of the Railroad Company did not grant
the power to operate the omnibus line. The company was
acting under the authority and direction of General
Goethals and we do not understand that the defence of
ultra vires is set up or could prevail.
In view of our conclusion upon the main point but
little need be said with regard to allowing pain to be considered in fixing the damages. It cannot be said with
certainty that the Supreme Court of the Zone was wrong
in holdin that under the Civil Code damages ought to
be allowed for physical pain. Fitzpatrick v. PanamaR. R.
Co., 2 Canal Zone Sup. Ct. Rep. 111, 129, 130; McKenzie
v. McClintic-MarshalI Construction Co., id., 181, 182.
Physical pain being a substantial and appreciable part of
the wrong done, allowed for in the customary compensation which the people of the Zone have been awarded in
their native courts, it properly was allowed here.
Judgment affirmed.

SCHENCK v. UNITED STATES.
BAER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 437, 438.

.\rgucd January 9,10,1919.-Decided March 3, 1919'

Evidence /hld tuificient to connect the defendants with'the mailing of
printede ircul'rs in pursuance of a conspiracy to obstruct the recruiting and clistment service, contrary to the Espionage Act of
June 15, 1917. P. 49.

