SCHENCK v. UNITEI) STATES.
41.-

Syllabus.

Colombia act specially concerning the empresarios of
railroads, we do not discuss a suggestion, made only, it is
said, to show that the act is inapplicable, to the effect
that the charter of the Railroad Company did not grant
the power to operate the omnibus line. The company was
acting under the authority and direction of General
Goethals and we do not understand that the defence of
ultra vires is set up or could prevail.
In view of our conclusion upon the main point but
little need be said with regard to allowing pain to be considered in fixing the damages. It cannot be said with
certainty that the Supreme Court of the Zone was wrong
in holdin that under the Civil Code damages ought to
be allowed for physical pain. Fitzpatrick v. PanamaR. R.
Co., 2 Canal Zone Sup. Ct. Rep. 111, 129, 130; McKenzie
v. McClintic-MarshalI Construction Co., id., 181, 182.
Physical pain being a substantial and appreciable part of
the wrong done, allowed for in the customary compensation which the people of the Zone have been awarded in
their native courts, it properly was allowed here.
Judgment affirmed.

SCHENCK v. UNITED STATES.
BAER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 437, 438.

.\rgucd January 9,10,1919.-Decided March 3, 1919'

Evidence /hld tuificient to connect the defendants with'the mailing of
printede ircul'rs in pursuance of a conspiracy to obstruct the recruiting and clistment service, contrary to the Espionage Act of
June 15, 1917. P. 49.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Incriminating documents seized under a search warrant directed agaiort
a Socialist headquarters, held admissible in evidence, consistently
with the Fourth and Fifth Amendments, in a criminal prosecution
against the general secretary of a Socialist party, who had charge
of the office. P. 50.
Words which, ordinarily and in many. plaes, would be Within the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment, may become subject to prohibition when of such a nature and used in such circumstances as to create a clear and present danger that they will bring
about the substantive evils which Congress has a right to prevent.
The character of every act depends upon the circumstances in
which it is done. P. 51.
A conspiracy to circulate among men called and accepted for military
service under the Selective Service Act of May 18, 1917, a circular
tending to influence them to obstruct the draft, with the intent to
effect tnhat result, and followed by the sending of such cireular4 is
within the power of Congress to punish, and is punishAble under
the Espionage Act, § 4, although unsuccessful. P. 52. '
The word "recruiting" as used in the Espionage Act, § 3, means the
gaining of fresh supplies of men for the military forces, as well by
draft as otherwise. P. 52.
The amendment of the Espionage Act by the Act of May 16, 1918,
c. 75, 40 Stat. 553, did not affect the prosecution of offenses under
the former. P. 53.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry John Nelson and Mr. Henry J. Gibbons foi
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. John Lord O'Brian, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Alfred Bellman, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an indictment in three counts. The first charges
a conspiracy to violate the Espionage Act of June 15,
1917, c. 30, § 3, 40 Stat. 217, 219, by causing and attempt-

SCHENCK v. UNITED STATES.
47.

Opinion of the Court.

ing to cause insubordination, &c., in the military and
naval forces of the United States, and to obstruct the
recruiting and enlistment service of the United States,
when the United States was at wax with the German Empire, to-wit, that the defendants wilfully conspired to
have printed and circulated to men who had been called
and accepted for military service under the Act of May 18,
1917,'a document set forth and alleged to be calculated to
cause such insubordination and obstruction. The count
alleges overt acts in pursuance of the conspiracy, ending
in the distributioh of t&.e document set forth. The second
count alleges a conspiracy to commit an offence against
the United States, to-wit, to use 'the mails for the transmission of matter declared to be non-mailable by Title XII,
§ 2 of the Act of June 15, 1917, tq-wit, the above mentioned document, with an averment of the same overt
acts. The third count charges an unlawful use of the
mails for the transmission of the same matter and otherwise as above. The defendants were found guilty, on all
the counts. They set up the First Amendment to the
Constitution forbidding Congress to make any law abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press, and bringing
the case here on that ground have argued some other
points also of which we must dispose.
It is argued that the evidence, if admissible, was not
sufficient to prove that the defendant Schenck was concerned in sending the documents. According to the
testimony Schenck said he was general secretary of the
Socialist party and had charge of the Socialist headquarters
from which the documents were sent. He identified 'a
book found there as the minutes of the Executive Coin*mittee of the party. The book showed a resolution of
August 13, 1917, that 15,000 leaflets should be printed
.on the other side of one of them in use, to be mailed to
men who had passed exemption boards, and for distribu
tion.

Schenck personally attended to the yintinrn.

On,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

August 20 the general secretary's report said "Obtained
new leaflets from printer aiid started work addressing envelopes" &c.; and there was a resolve that Comrade
Schenck be allowed $125 for sending leaflets thmugh the
mail. He said that he had about fifteen or sixteen thousand printed. There were files of the circular in question
in the inner office which he said were printed on the other
side of the one sided circular and were there for distribution. Other copies were proved to have been sent through
the mails to drafted men. Without going into confirmatory details that were proved, no reasonable man could
doubt that the defendant Schenck was largely instrumental in sending the circulars about. As to the defendant Baer there was evidence that she was a member of the
Executive Board and that the minutes of its transactions
were hers. The argument as to the sufficiency of the evidence that the defendants conspired to send the documents cnly impairs the seriousness of the real defence.
It is objected that the documentary evidence was not
admissible because obtained upon a search warrant, valid
so far as appears. The contrary is established. Adams
v. New York, 192 U. S. 585; Weeks v. United States, 232
U. S. 383, 395, 396. The search warrant did not issue
against the defendant but against the Socialist headquarters at 1326 Arch Street and it would seem that the
documents technically were not even in the defendants'
possession. See Johnson v. United States, 228 U. S. 457.
Notwithstanding some protest in argument the notion
that evidence even directly proceeding from the defendant
in a criminal proceeding is excluded in all pases by the
Fifth Amendment is plainly unsound. Holt v. United
States, 218 U. S. 245, 252, 253.
The document in question upon its first' printed side
recited the first section of the Thirteenth Amendment,
said that the idea embodied in it was violated by the Conscription Act and that a conscript is little better. than a

SCHENCK v. UNITED STATES.
47.

Opinion of the Court.

convict. -In impassioned language it intimated that conscription was despotism in its worst form and a monstrous
wrong against humanity in the interest of Wall Street's
chosen few. It said "Do not submit to intimidation,"
but in form at least confined itself to peaceful measures
such as a petition for the repeal of the act. The other
and later printed side of the sheet was. headed "Assert
Your Rights." It stated reasons for alleging that any
one violated the Constitution when he refused to recognize "your right to assert your opposition to the draft,"
and went on" If you do not assert and support your rights,
you are helping to deny or disparage rights which it is
the solemn duty of all citizens and residents of the United
States to retain." It described the arguments on the
other side as coming from cunning politicians and a mercenary capitalist press, and even silent consent to the
conscription law as helping to support an infamous conspiracy. It denied the power to send our citizens away
to foreign shores to shoot up the people of other lands,
and added that words could not express the condemnation
such cold-blooded ruthlessness deserves, &c., &c., winding
up "You must do your share to maintain, support and
uphold the rights of the people of this country." Of course
the document would not have been sent unless it had been
intended to have some effect,' and we do not see what effect
it could be expected to have upon persons subject to the
draft except to influence them to obstruct the carrying
of it out. The defendants do not deny that the jury
might find against them on this point.
' But it is said, suppose that that was the tendency of
this circular, it is protected by the First Amendment to
the Constitution. Two of the strongest expressions are
said to be quoted respectively from well-known public
men. It well may be that the prohibition of laws abridging the freedom of speech is not confined to previous restraints, although to prevent them may have. been the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

rxiain purpose, as intimated in Patterson v. Colorado, 205
U. S. 454, 462. We admit that in many places and in
ordinary times the defendants in saying all that was said
in the circular would have been within their constitutional rights. But the character of every act depends
upon the circumstances in which it is done. Aikens v.
Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194, 205,'206. The most stringent
protection of free speech would not protect a man in
falsely shouting fire in a theatre and causing a panic.
It does not even protect a man from an injunction against
uttering words that may have all the effect of force.
Gompers w Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 439.
The question in every case is whether the words used are
used in such circumstances and are of such a nature as to.
create a clear and present danger that they will ,bring
about the substantive evils that Congress has a right to
prevent. It is a question of proximity and degree. When
a nation is at war many things that might be said in time
of peace are such a hindrance to its effort that their utterance will not be endured so long as men fight and that no
Court could regard them as protected by any constitutional right. It seems to be admitted that if an actual
obstruction of the recruiting service were proved, liability
for words that produced that effect might be enforced.
The statute of 1917 in § 4 punishes conspiracies to obstruct as well as actual obstruction. If the act, (speaking,
or circulating a paper,) its tendency and the intent with
which it is done are the same, we perceive no ground for
saying that success, alone warrants making the act a
crime. Goldman v. United States, 245 U. S. 474, 477.
Indeed that case might be said to dispose of the present
contention if the precedent covers all media concludendi.
But as the right to free speech was not referred to specially, we have thought fit to add a few words.
It was not argued that a conspiracy to obstruct the
draft wVs nio within uie words of the Act of 1917. The

ALASKA PACIFIC I"ISJIEIIES i.ALASKA.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

47.

words are "obstructthe recruiting o.r enlistment service,"
and it might be suggested that they refer only to making
it hard to get. volunteers. Recruiting heretofore usually
having been accomplished by getting volunteers the word
is apt to call up that method only in our minds. But recruiting is gaining fresh supplies for the forces, as well by
draft as otherwise. It is put. as an alternative to enlistment or voluntary enrollment in this act. The fact that
the Act of 1917 was enlarged by the amending Act af May
16, 1918, c. 75, 40 Stat. 553, of course, does not affect the
present indictment and would not, even if the former act
had been repealed. Rev. Stats., § 13.
Judgments affirmed.

ALASKA PACIFIC FISHERIES v. TERRITORY OF
ALASKA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 117, 118.

Argued December 19, 20, 1918.-Decided March 3, 1919.

''he provisions of the Judicial Code governing the review of cases
coming from Alaska are to-be construed in the light of their legislative history and of the Judiciary Act of 1891, as conrirued by this
court. P. 58.
Under §§ 134, 247, and 241, of the Judicial Code, when a case involving constitutiral as well as other issues is taken from the District
Court for Alaska to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, the judgment of the latter court is not reviewable in this
court by writ of error but only by certiorari. P. 61.
Writs of error to review 236 Fed. Rep. 52, 70, dismissed.

The cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. A. Hellcnt/ial, with whom Mr. Harvey M. Fx4'yd
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error:

