OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S

after a day certain its possession will, by mere lapse of
time, become a crime. It is well settled that the Federal
Constitution does not enable one to stay the exercise of
a State's police power by entering into a contract under
such circumstances. Diamond Glue Co. v. United States
Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611, 615. Compare Calderv. Michigan,
218 U. S. 591, 599. Nor can-he do so by acquiring property.
The defendant raised, in his amended motion for a new
trial, the further objection that the law was unconstitutional as applied to him, because the liquor had been acquired before the statute was enacted; but the trial judge
denied the motion and declined to approve any of the
grounds on which it was based. In accordance with the
state practice its Supreme Court therefore refused to consider the point. Dickens v. State, 137 Georgia, 523; Harris
v. State, 120 Georgia, 196, 197. Consequently the question is not before us, Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Woodford, 234 U. S. 46, 51; and on it we express no opinion.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is
Affirmed.

J. E. HATHAWAY & COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 255.

Argued March 19, 20, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

A finding by the Court of Claims that a delay by the Government in
approving a contract was reasonable is a finding of ultimate fact,
binding upon this court unless made without evidence or inconsistent with other facts found. P. 463.
Quwere: Whether unreasonable delay on the part of the Government
in approving a contract can entitle the contractor to an extension

where the contract fixes a definite date for completion of the work?

HATHAWAY & CO. r. UNITED STATES.
460.

Argument for Appellant.

Id. District of Columbio v. Canden Irah Work.,:, 181 U. S. 453,
distinguished.
A provision for deducting, iii addition to an amount fixed as liquidated.
damages, the expense of superintendence and inspection, in case
of failure to complete the work by the time speGified, will be enforceu when clearly expressed in the contract. P. 464.
A contention that sufficient credit of time was not allowed by the
Government to the contractor for extra work held not reviewable
in this court, it not having been made in the Court of Claims.
Id.
52 Ct. Cbins. 267, affirmed.

THE. case

is stated in the opinion.

Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B.King
and Mr. William E. Harvey were on the brief, for appellant:
Here was a month taken, at the best season of the year
for working, simply to obtain record evidence of the
authority of the attorney in fact of the surety company
to sign the contract. The delay was wholly on the part
of the Government. Whether styled "reasonable" or
"unreasonable," it was a delay for which the contractor
was in no degree responsible. That the delay in signing
the contract on the part oT the Government was reasonable is, it is submitted, not a finding of fact but a conclusion of law. United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265; Sun
Insurance Co. v. Ocean Insurance Co., 107 U. S. 485, 502,
503. Such a conclusion embodied in the findings of fact
is not binding in this court.
When the contract was signed by the contractor and
the bond executed by a surety company, the contractor
had done everything which he could do to enter into a
legally binding contract with the Government. To supply the slight defect a telegram should have been sent to
the contractor.
The injustice of holding this contractor to a date of
completion offered by him on April 29, when he was not

OCTOBER TERM, J918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

notified of the compIetion of the contract as a binding
obligation of the Government until June 13, is apparent.
As soon as the contractor made his bid April 29, 1910,
he was bound. United States v. Porto Rico S. S. Co., 239
U. S. 88. He was not notified that the contract was
awarded to him until May 11, twelve days thereafter.
There is no explanation of this delay and no apparent
reason for it. Districtof Columbia v. Camden Iron Works,
181 U. S. 453, is directly in point. See also American
Dredging Co. v. United States, 49,.Ct. Clms. 350; Ittner v.
United States, 43 Ct. Chms. 336; Little Falls Knitting Mill
Co. v. United States, 44 Ct. Clms. 1; Callahan Construction Co. v. United States, 47 Ct. Chns. 229, 235, 236;
Laidlaw-Dunn-Gordon Co. v. United States, 47 Ct. Clms.
271; Missouri Valley Bridge & Iron Co., 19 Comp. Dec.
712.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Friersonfor the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The United States solicited sealed proposals for the
repair of a revetment in Michigan; and J. E. Hathaway
& Company became the successful bidders. Under a
contract, dated May 11, 1910, they agreed to complete
the work by December 1, 1910. It was not completed
until 68 days later. Of this delay the Government
conceded that 29 days were attributable to extra work
required by it, and 10 more days were not counted
against the contractor, being Sundays and holidays.
For the remaining 29 days' delay the Government deducted from the contract price $3082; claiming that
amount under the provisions for liquidated and other
damages. To recover the amount disallowed, J. E.
Hathaway & Company brought suit in the Cou~t of

HATHAWAY & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
460.

463

Opinion of the Court.

Claims, which denied them relief (52 Ct. Cims. 267);
and the case comes here on appeal.
First. Claimants contend that they were entitled to
an extension of more than these 29 days' time for completing the work; because the contract and bgnd were
delivered by them to the Government May 18, duly
executed, but were not approved by the Chief of Engineers until June 9, and notice of approval was not given
them until June 13. The origin of this delay was the
failure of the surety company to file with the War Department a copy of the vote of its directors giving him
who signed the bond as attorney in fact authority so
to do. But claimants insist that this omission could
have been quickly supplied, if the Government had
telegraphed for a copy of the vote, and that practically
all the delay was due to its unreasonable failure so to do.
The Court of Claims found: "There was no unreasonable delay on the part of the Government in approving
This finding, like one of reasonable
the contract."
value, Talbert v. United States, 155 U. S. 45, 46, is a finding of an ultimate fact by which this court is bound,
unless it appears that the finding was made without
supporting evidence, Cramp & Sons Co. v. United States,
239 U. S. 221, 232; Stone v. United States, 164 U. S. 380;
United States v. Clark, 96 U. S. 37, or is inconsistent
with other facts found, United States v. Berdan FireArms Co., 156 U. S. 552, 573. There is no such lack
of supporting evidence or inconsistency here. We have
consequently no occasion to determine whether, as was
held in American Dredging Co. v. United States, 49 Ct.
Clns. 350, unreasonable delay on the part of the Government in approving a contract for an accepted bid can
entitle the contractor to a corresponding extension of
time, where a definite date is fixed by the contract for
completion of the work. Compare'Monroe v. United
States, 184 U. S. 524. The case of District of Columbia

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

v. Camden Iron Works, 181 U. S. 453, 461, strongly
relied upon by claimants, is clearly distinguishable.
There the contract, as interpreted by the court, provided that the work should be completed, not (as here)
by a date fixed, but within a cdrtain number of days;
and the number of. days was to be'measured, not from
the date of the contract but from ,)'the date of the
execution of the contract." What Was there decided
is merely that under such c ircumstances it may be
"shown that a deed, bond or other instrument was in
fact made, executed and delivered at a date subsequent
to that stated on its face."
Second. Claimants contend also that the Court of
Claims erred in allowing, in addition to the sum of $100
a day as liquidated damages, the sum of $182 for the
expense of superintendence and inspection. But the contract expressly provided that time should be deemed of
the essence and that in case of failure to complete within
the time specified "the contractor shall pay, in addition
to the liquidated damages hereinbefore specified, all expenses for inspection and superintendence." There is no
reason why parties competent to contract may not agree
that certain elements of damage difficult to estimate shall
be covered by a provision for liquidated damages and
that other elements shall be ascertained in the usual manner., Provisions of a- contract clearly expressed do not
cease to be binding upon the parties, because they relate
to the measure of damages. Wise v. United States, ante,
361.
Third. Claimants further contend that the credit of
time allowed by the Government on account of the extra
work should have been greater. On this matter no issue
appears to have been raised below; and it is obviously
not open for review here.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
A firmed.

