OCTX)BER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

249 U. S.

LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL. v.
PUEBLO OF SANTA ROSA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 197. Argued January 29, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.
The Pueblo of Santa Rosa is a legal entity, with capacity to maintain
a suit to protect its rights in land claimed by it as a grantee under
the laws of Spain and Mexico. P. 112. Cherokee Nation v. Georgia,
5 Pet. 1, distinguished.
This status of the Pueblo, if it did not previously exist, resulted from a
law of the Territory of New Mexico, and from acts of Congress extending the laws of that Territory over the region acquired by the
Gadsden Treaty, and over the Territory of Arizona, when the latter
was organized; and it was not affected by the creation of the State
of Arizona. Id.
Assuming that these Indians are wards of the Government, that fact
would not affect the capacity of the Pueblo to sue in the District of
Columbia, to restrain the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office from offering, listing, etc., under
the public land laws, lands in Arizona to which the Pueblo alleges
perfect title under the laws of Spain and Mexico. P. 113.
In such a suit, where the trial court dismissed the bill on defendants'
motion, held, error for the Court of Appeals, finding the bill made
a case for the relief sought, to award a permanent injunction; for
defendants were entitled to answer to the merits as if their motion
had been overruled originally. P. 114.
46 App. D. C. 411, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Leslie C. Ganett
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Ralph S. Rounds, with whom Mr. Alton M. Cates
and Mr. Henry P. Blair were on the brief, for appellee.

LANE v. PUEBLO OF SANTA ROSA.
110.

MR. JUSn-c
the court.

Opinion of the Court.
VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

This is a suit to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior and
the Commissioner of the General Land Office from offering,
listing or disposing of certain lands in southern Arizona
as rnblic lands of the United States. The lands include
the site of the Pueblo of Santa Rosa and the surrounding
territory, comprise some 460,000 acres, and are within the
region acquired from Mexico under what is known as the
Gadsden Treaty, 10 Stat. 1031. The suit is brought by
the Pueblo of Santa Rosa and its right to the relief sought
is based on two allegations, which are elaborated in the
bill: one, that under the laws of Spain and Mexico it had,
when that region was acquired by the United States, and
under the provisions of the treaty it now has, a complete
and perfect title to the lands in question; and the other,
that in disregard of its title,the defendants are theatening
and proceeding to offer, list and dispose 'of these lands as
public lands of the United States. In the court of first
instance the bill was challenged by a motion to dismiss in
the nature of a demurrer, and the motion was sustained.
In the Court of Appeals the case made by the allegations
in the bill was held to be one entitling the plaintiff to the
relief sought, and the decree of dismissal was reversed
with a direction that a permanent injunction be awarded.
46 App. D. C. 411. The latter decision is challenged here
on two grounds: one, that the plaintiff is not a legal entity
and has no capacity to. maintain the suit; and the other,
that, in any event, the defendants should not be subjected
to a permanent injunction without according them an opportunity to answer the bill.
The plaintiff is an Indian town whose inhabitants are a
simple and uninformed people, measurably civilized and
industrious, living in substantial houses and engaged in
agricultural and pastoral pursuits. Its existence, prac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

tically as it is today, can be traced back through the.
period of Mexican rule into that of the Spanith Kings.
It was known then, as now, as the Pueblo of Santa Rosa,
atd its inhabitants.were known then, as now, as Pueblo
Indians. During the Spanish, as also the Mexican, dominion it enjoyed a large measure of local self-governnent and was recognized as having capacity to acquire
and hold lands and other property. With much reason
this might be regarded as enabling and entitling it to become a suitor for the purpose of enforcing or defending
its property interests. See School District v. Wood, 13
Massachusetts, 193, 198; Cooley's Const. Lir., 7th ed.,
p. 276; 1 Dillon Munic, Corp., 5th ed., §§ 50, 64, 65. But
our decision need not be put on that ground, for there is
another which arises out of our own laws and is in itself
sufficient. After the Gadsden Treaty Congress made that
region part of the Territory of New Mexico and subjected
it to "all the laws" of that Territory. Act August 4,
1854, c. 245, 10 Stat. 575. One of those laws provided
that the inhabitants of any Indian pueblo having a grant
or concession of lands from Spain or Mexico, such as is
here claimed, should be a body corporate and as such capable of suing or defending in respect of such lands. Laws
New Mex. 1851-2, pp. 176 and 418. If the plaintiff was
not a legal entity and juristic person before, it became such
under that law; and it retained that status after Congress
included it in the Territory of Arizona, for the act by
which this was done extended to that Territory all legislative enactments of the Territory of New Mexico. Act
February 24, 1863, c. 56, 12 Stat. 664. The fact that Arizona has since become a State does not affect the plaintiff's
.corporate status or its power to sue. See Kansas Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa.Fe R. R. Co., 112
U. S. 414.
The case of Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, on
which the defendants place some reliance, is not in point.

LANE v. PUEBLO OF SANTA ROSA.
110.

Opinion of the Court.

The question there wag not whether the Cherokee tribe
had the requisite capacity to sue in a court of general
jurisdiction, but whether it was a "foreign state" in the
sense of the judiciary article of the Constitution and
therefore entitled to maintain an original suit in this court
against the State of Georgia. The court held that the
tribe, although unifonly treated as a distinct political
society capable of engaging in treaty stipulations, was not
a "foreign state" in the sense intended, and so could not
maintain such a suit. This is all that was decided.
The defendants assert with much parnestness that the
Indians of this pueblo are wards of the United Statesrecognized as such by the legislative and executive departments-and that hi consequence the disposal qf their
lands is not within their own control, but subject to such
regulations as Congress may prescribe for their benefit
and protection. Assuming, without so deciding, that this
is all true,I we think it has no real bearing on the point
we are considering. Certainly it would not justify the
defendants in treating the lands of these Indians-to
which, according. to the bill; they have a complete and
perfect title-as public lands of the United States and
disposing of the same under the public land laws. That
would not be an exercise of guardianship, but an act of
confiscation. Besides, the Indians are not here seekiig
to establish any power or capacity in themselves to dispose of the lands, but only to prevent a threatened disposal by administrative officers 'in disregard of their full
ownership. Of their capacity to maintain such a suit we
entertain no doubt. The existing wardship is not an obstacle, as is shown by repeated decisions of this court,
See Chouteau v. Molony, 16 How. 203, 237; United States v. Ritchie,
17 How. 525, 540: United States v. Pico, 5 Wall. 536, 540; United States
v. Sandovial, 231 U. S. 28; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294,
307; Lone Wolf'v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553, 568; Tiger v. Western
Investment Co., 221 U. S. .2S(, 310, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
-Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

of which Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553, is an il-

lustration.
In view of the very broad allegations of the bill, the accuracy of which has not been challenged as yet, We have
assumed in what has been said that the plaintiff's claim
was valid in its entirety under the Spanish and Mexican
laws, and that it encounters no obstacle in the concluding
provision of the sixth article of the Gadsden Treaty, but
no decision on either point is intended. Both involve
questions not covered by the briefs or the discussion at the
bar and are left open to investigation and decision in the
further progress of the cause.
Of course, the Court of Appeals ought not to have directed the entry of a final decree awarding a permanent injunction against the defendants. They were entitled to an
opportunity to answer to the merits, just as if their motion
to dismiss had been overruled in the court of first instance.
By the direction given they were denied such a opportunity, and this was a plain and prejudicial error.
Our conclusion is that the decrees of both courts below
should be reversed and the cause remanded to the court
of first instance with directions to overrule the motion
to dismiss, to afford the defendants an opportunity to
answer the bill, to grant an order restraining them from
in any wise offering, listing or disposing of any of the lands
in question pending the -final decree, and to take such
further proceedings as may be appropriate and not inconsistent with this opinion.
Decree reversed.

