554-

OTOBII

TERM, 1M18.

.Opiniorn of the ('ourt.

249 U. S.

BEAUMONT, ASSIGNEE OF BORCK, v. PRIETO ET
AL., ADMINISTRATORS OF LEGARDA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 303.

Argued April 17, 1919.-Decided May 5, 1919.

In the interest of justice the court may decline to dismiss a case upon
the ground that the writ of error and citation were not made returnable in time, where the irregularity had color of authority from
the court below and one of its judges. P. 555.
An offer to sell real property, in the form of an option allowing three
months in which to buy at a certain price, is not accepted by an
offer to purchase at that price, conditioned to be paid on a date
specified (beyond the three months) or "before and with delivery"
of clear title. Id.
The opportunity to accept a continuing offer is lost by making a
counter offer. P. 556.
The court will not disturb a decision of the Supreme Court of the
Philippines on a local question of contract, unless clearly wrong.
Id.

Aflirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joseph D. Sullivan, with whorh'x Mr. T. T. Ansberry
and Mr. Thos. D. Aitken were on the brief, for appellant
and plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alex. Britton, with whom Mr. Evans Browne, Mr.
H. W. Van Dyke and Mr. Charles C. Cohn were on the
briefs, for appellees and defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit for the specific perforniance of an alleged
contract to sell land. The court of first instance made a

BEAUMONT z. PRIETO.
554.

Opinion of the Court.

decree for the plaintiff, but the decree was reversed by
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands and the
defendants were absolved from the complaint. There is
a motion to dismiss, on the ground that the writ of error
and citation were not made returnable in time. But without gokig into particulars, as the appellant had color of
authority from the court and a judge of that court, it
appears to us that justice will be better served by dealing
with the merits of the case. See Southern Pine Co. v. Ward,
208 U. S. 126, 137.
On the merits the only question is whether the alleged
contract was made. The first material step was the following offer, dated December 4, 1911: "Mr. W. Borck,
Real Estate Agent, Manila, P. I. Sir: In compliance with'
your request I herewith give you an option for three
months to buy the property of Mr. Benito Legarda, known
as the Nagtahan hacienda, situated in the district of
Sampaloc, Manila, and consisting of about 1,993,000
square meters of land, for the price of its assessed government valuation. B. Valdes." There is no dispute that
the assessed government valuation was 307,000 pesos,
that Legarda owned the land and that Valdes had power
to make the offer. On January 17, 1912, Borck wrote
to ValdeS: "In reference to our negotiations regarding"
the property in question, "I offer to. purchase said property for the sum of three hundred and seven thousand
(307,000.00) pesos,' Ph. C., cash, net to you, payable the
first day of May, 1912, or before and with delivery of a
torrens title free of all encumbrances as taxes and other
debts." There was dispute about the admissibility ol
this letter and its being signed, but we see no occasion
to disturb the opinion of the Supreme Court that it was
a part of the transaction and was admissible. No answer
was received, and on January 19 Borck wrote again, saying that he was ready to purchase the property at the
price and that full payment would be made on or befoie

OCTOBER TERM, 191&
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

March 3, provided all documents in connection with the
hacienda were immediately placed at his disposal and
found in good order. On January 23, Borck wrote again
that he could improve the condition of payment and
would pay ten days after the documents had been put at
his disposal for inspection, &c., and finally, on February
28, wrote that the price was ready to be paid over and
requesting notice when it was convenient to allow inspection of all papers. Before this last letter was written
Valdes had indicated that he regarded compliance as an
open question by saying in conversation that he wished
to communicate with Mr. Legarda. Subsequently conveyance was refused.
The letter of January 17 plainly departed from the
terms of the offer as to the time of payment and was, as
it was expressed to be, a counter offer. In the language
of a similar English case,. "plaintiff made an offer of his
own .
. and he thereby rejected the offer previously
made by the defendant. . . . It was not afterwards

competent for him to revive the proposal of the defendant,
by tendering an acceptance of it." Hyde v. Wrench, 3
Beavan, 334. Langdell, Cont., ยง 18. We do not find it
necessary to go into the discussion of the later communications, which led the Supreme Court to the conclusion
that they also would not have been sufficient. 'The right
to hold the defendant to the proposed terms by a word
of assent was gone, and after that, all that the plaintiff
could do was to make an offer in his turn. It would need
a very much stronger case than this to induce us to reverse
the decision of the court below. Cardona v. Quifones,
240 U. S. 83, 88.
Judgment affirmed.

