OCTOBER TERlM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U.1c

previous decisions to require discussion. Coe v. Errol,
116 U. S. 517, 525; Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U..S. 504, 515
516; McCluskey v. Marystille & Northern Ry. Co., 243
U. S. 36.
The distinction between these cases and those cited
to sustain the decision of the district court (Swift & Co. v.
United States, 196 U. S. 375, 398; Ohio R. R. Commission
v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Texas & New Orleans R. R.
Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111; Louisiana R. R.
Commission v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 229 U. S. 336) is so
evident that particular analysis may be dispensed with.
The exceptions sustained by the district court to the
claims of the Arkadelphia Milling Co. and Hasty & Sons
having been found to be untenable, it results that these
claims should be allowed as against the railway companies
and their sureties, so 'far as they, arose before the final
decrees, and as against the railway companies only, so
far as they arose after the final decrees.
Nos. 92 and 93, decree reversed; Nos. 94 and 95, decree
modified and affirmed; and the cause remanded.for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

MIDDLETON v. TEXAS POWER & LIGHT COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 102.

Submitted December 18, 1918.-Decided March 3, 1919.

There is a strong presumption that discriminations in state legislation
are based on adequate grounds, and the mere fact that a law regulating certain classes might properly have'included others does not
condemn it under the equal protection clause. P. 157.
The Texas Workmncn's Compensation Act, regulating the rights and

MIDDLETON v. TEXAS POWER & LIGHT CO.
152.

153

Opinion of the Court.

liabilities of employers and employees respecting disabling and
fatal injuries in the employment, is expressly inapplicable to domestic
servants, farm laborers, common carrier railway employees, laborers
in cotton gins and employees of employers employing not more than
five. Held, that there are adequate grounds for each of these exceptions. Id.
The discrimination resulting between employees engaged in the same
kind of work, where one employer exercises his option to come under
the act and another does not, is likewise consistent with the equal
protection clause. P. 159.
Construed as binding all employees who remain in the employment
after notice that their employer has subscribed to compensation
insurance under it, the act is not open to the objection of being optional to the employer while compulsory upon his employees when
he accepts it, since the latter, by thus remaining, exercise their option also. P. 161.
As the status of employer and employee is voluntary, and in view of
their different relations to the common undertaking, it is clearly
within legislative discretion, and not a denial of equal protection,
to leave the initiative to the former in adopting the new terms of employment, with the option to the latter of accepting them, too, after
notice, or withdrawing from the service. Id.
A plan imposing upon the employer respobsibility for making compensation for disabling or fatal injuries, irrespective of the question of
fault, and re(luiring the employee to assume all risk of damages over
and above the statutory schedule, when established as a reasonable
substitute for the legal measure of duty and responsibility previously
existing, may be made compulsory upon employees as well as employers, without depriving either of liberty in violation of the due
process chluse.

P. 163.

108 Texas, 96, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Chas. B. Braun for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Harry Preston Lawther and Mr. Alexander Pope

for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of. the court.

Alleging that in the month of December, 1913, he was in
the employ of the Texas Power aid Light. Company in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

State of Texas, and while so employed received serious
personaln-inies through the bursting of a steam pipe
due to the negligence of his employer and its agents,
Middleton sued the company in a district court of that
Stat6 to recover his damages. The defendant interposed
an answer in the nature of a plea in abatement setting
up that at the time of the accident and at the commence-ment of the action defendant was the holder of a policy
of liability and' compensation insurance, issued in its

.avor by a cmpany lawfully transacting such business in
bhe State, conditioned to pay the compensation provided
by -the Texas Workmen's Compensation Act, which was
approved April 16, 1913, and took effect on the first day
of September in that year (c. 179, Acts of 33d Legislature),
of which fact the plaintiff had proper and timely notice
as provided by the act; and that no claim for the compensation provided in the act with respect to, the alleged
injury had been made by plaintiff, but on the contrary
he had refused to receive such compensation; with other
matters sufficient to bring defendant within the protection of the act; Plaintiff took a special exception in the
nature of a, demurrer, upon the ground (among others)
that the act was in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The eiception was overruled, the plea in abatement sustained,
and the action dismissed. On appeal to the court of
civil appeals it was at first held that the judgment must
be reversed (178 S. W. Rep. 956); but upon an-application
for a rehearing the constitutozjal questions were certified
to the supreme court of the State. That court sustained
the constitutionality of the law (108 Texas, 96); and in
obedience to its opinion the court of civil appeals set aside
its former judgment and affirmed the judgment of the
district court. Thereupon the present writ of error was
sued out under ยง 237, Judicial Code, as amended by Act
of September 6, 1916, c. 448,39 Stat. 726.

MIDDLETON r. TEI.XA. PO)WER &LIGHT
152.

CU.

155

Cliinion of the Court.

Thus we have presented, from the standpoint of an
objecting employee, the question whether the Texas
Employers' Liability Act is in conflict with the due process
and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Ainendment.
The act creates an. .Employers' Insurance Association,
to which any employer of labor in the State, with exceptions to be mentioned, may become a subscriber; and out
of the funds of this association, derived fromipremiums
on policies of liability insurance issued by it to subscribing.
members and assessments authorized against them if
necessary, the compensation provided by the act as due
on account of personal injuries sustained by their employees, or on account of death resulting from such injuries, is
to be paid. This is a stated compensation, fixed with relation to the employee's average weekly wages, and a;ccrues to him absolutely when he suffers a personal injury
in the course of his employment incapacitating him from
earning wages for as long a period as one week, or to his.
representatives or beneficiaries in the event of his death
from such injury, whether or not it be due to the negligence
of the employer or his servants or agents. Such compensation is the statutory substitute for damages otherwise recoverable because of injuries suffered by 'an employee,
or his death occasioned, by such injuries, when due to the
negligence of the employer or his servants; it being declared that the employee of a subscribing employer, or his
representatives or beneficiaries in case of his death, shall
have no cause of action against the employer for damages
except where a death is caused by the willful act or omission or gross negligence of the employer. Employers who
do not become subscribers axe subject as before to suits
for damages based on negligence for injuries to employees
or for death resulting therefrom; and are deprived of the
so-called "common law defenses" of fellow servant's
negligence and assumed risk, and also of' contributory

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

negligence as an absolute defense, it being provided that
for contributory negligence damages shall be diminished
except where the employer's violation of a statuteenacted
for the safety of employees contributes to the injury or
death; but that where the injury is caused by the willful
intention of the employee to bring it about the employer
may defend on that ground. Every employer becoming
a subscriber to the insurance association is required to
give written or printed notice to all his employees that he
has provided for the payment by the association of compensation for injuries received by them in the course of
their employment. Under certain conditions an employer
holding, a liability policy issued by an insurance company
lawfully transacting such business within the State is to
be deemed a subscriber within the meaning of the act.
There are administrative provisions, including procedure
for the determination of disputed claims. By ยง2 of
Part 1 it is enacted as follows: "The provisions of this
Act shall not apply to actions to recover damages for the
personal injuries or for death resulting from personal injuries sustained by domestic servants, farm laborers, nor
to the employees of any person, firm or corporation
operating any railway as a common carrier, nor to
laborers engaged in working for a cotton gin, nor to employees of any person, firm or corporation having in his
or their employ not more than five' employees."
Following the order adopted in the argument of plaintiff
in error, we deal first with the contention that the act
amounts to a denial of the equal protection of the laws.
This is based in part upon the classification Tesulting from
the provisions of the section just quoted, it being said that
employees: of the excepted classes are left entitled to certain privileges which by the act are denied to. employees
of the non-excepted classes, without reasonable basis
for the distinction'
Of course plaintiff in error, not being an employee in.

MIDDLETON v. TEXAS POWER, & LIGHT CO.
152.

157

Opinion of the Court

any of the excepted classes, would not be heard to assert
any grievance they might have by reason of being excluded from the operation of the act. Southern Ry. Co.
v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534; Standard Stock Food Co. v.
Wright, 225 U. S. 54U, 550: Rosenthal v. New York, 22(i
U. S. 260, 271; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232U. S. 531, 544; Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 57 6.
But plaintiff in error sets up a grievance as a member of. a
class to which the act is made to apply.
However, we are clear that the classification can not be
held to be arbitrary and unreasonable. The Supreme
Court of Texas in sustaining it said (108 Texas, 110-111):
"Employees of railroads, those of employers having les.
than five employees, domestic servants, farm laborers and
gin laborers are excluded from the operation of the Act,
but this was doubtless for reasons that the legislature
deemed sufficient. The nature of these several employments, the existence of other laws governing liability
for injuries to railroad employees, known experience as
to hazards and extent of accidental injuries to farm hands,
gin hands and domestic servants, were all matters no doubt
considered by the legislature in exempting fhem from the
operation of the Act. Distinctions in these and other
respects between them and employees engaged in other
industrial pursuits may, we think, be readily suggested.
We are not justified in saying that the classification was
purely arbitrary."
There is a strong presumption that a legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of its own
people, that its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience, and that its, discriminations are based
upon adequate grounds. The equal protection clause does
not require that state laws shall cover the entire field
of proper legislation in a single enactment. If one entertained the view that the act might as well have been-extended to other classes of employment, this would not

OCI13 ERI 'I'E.R{,

1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

amount to a constitutional objection. Rosenthal V. New
York, 226 U. S. 260, 271; Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232
U. S. 138, 144; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Cad(,
233 U. S.. 642, 649-650; International Harvester Co. v.
Missouri, 234 U. S. 199, 215; Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor,
234 U. S. 224, 227; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 384.
The burden being upon him who attacks a law for unconstitutionality, the courts need not be ingenious in
searching for grounds of distinction.to sustain a classification that may be subjected to criticism. But in this case
adequate grounds are easily discerned. As to the exclusion of railroad employees, the existence of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35
Stat. 65; c. 143, 36 Stat. 291, applying exclusively as to
employees of common carriers by rail injured while employed in interstate commerce, establishing liability for
negligence and exempting from liability in the absence 'of
negligence in all cases within its reach (New York Central
R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147; Erie R. R. Co. v.
Winfield, 244 U. S. 170), and the difficulty that so often
arises in determining in particular instances whether the
employee was employed in interstate commerce at the
time of the injury (see Pedersen v. Delaware, Lackawanna
& Western R. R. Co., 229 U. S. 146, 151-152; North Carolina R. R. Co. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 259-260; Illinois
Central R. R. Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 478; New
York Central R. R. Co. v. Carr, 238 U. S. 260, 263; Pennsylvania Co. v. Donat, 239 U. S. 50; Shanks v. Delaware,
Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 239 U. S. 556, 559;
Louisville & Nash. R. R. Co. V. Parker, 242 U. S. 13;
Erie R. R. Co. v. Welsh, 242 U. S. 303, 306; Southern Ry.
Co. v. Puckett, 244 U. S. 571, 573), reasonably may have
led the legislature to the view that it would be unwise to
attempt to apply the new system. to railroad employees,
in whatever kind of commerce employed, and that they
might better be left to common-law actions with statu-

MIDDLETON r. TEXAS POWER & LIGHT CO. 159
152.

Opinion of the Court.

tory modifications already in force (Vernon's Sayles'
Texas Civ. Stats. 1914, Arts. 6640-6652), and such others
as experience might show to be called for.
The exclusion of farm laborers and domestic servants
from the compulsory scheme of the New York Workmen's Compensation Act was sustained in New York
Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188, 208, upon the
ground that the legislature reasonably might, consider
that the risks inherent in those occupations were exceptionally patent, simple, and familiar. The same result
has been reached by the state courts generally. Opinion
of Justices, 209 Massachusetts, 607, 610; Young v. Duncan,
218 Massachusetts, 346, 349; Hunter v. Colfax Coal Co.,
175 Iowa, 245, 287; Sayles v. Foley, 38 R. I. 484, 490-492.
Similar reasoning may be applied to cotton gin laborers
in Texas; indeed, it was applied to them by the supreme
court of that State, as we have seen. And the exclusion
of domestic servants, farm laborers, casual employees,
and railrbad employees engaged in interstate commerce
was sustained in Mathison v. Minneapolis Street Ry. Co.,
126 Minnesota; 286, 293.
The exclusion of employees where not nore than four
or five are under a single employer is common ]A legislation of this character, and evidently permissible upon the
ground that the conditions of the, industry* are different
and the hazards fewer,, simpler, and more easily avoided
where so few are employed together; the legislature, of
course, being the proper judges to determine precisely
where the line should be drawn. Classification on this
basis was upheld. in Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S.
571, 576-577, and has been sustained repeatedly by the
state courts. State v. Creamer, 85 Ohio St. 349, 404-405;
Borgnis v. Falk Co., 1.47 Wisconsin, 327, 355; Shade v.
Cement Co., 93 Kansas, 257, 259; Sayles v. Foley, 38 R. I.
484, 491, 493.
The discrimination that results from the operation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

act as between the employees of different employers engaged in the same kind of work, where one employer becomes a subscriber and another does not, furnishes no
ground of constitutional attack upon the theory that there
is a denial of the equal protection of the laws. That the
acceptance of such a system may be made optional is too
plain for question; and it necessarily follows that differences arising from the fact that all of those to whom the
option is open do not accept it must be regarded as the
natural and inevitable result of a free choice, and not as a
legislative discrimination. . They stand upon the same
fundamental basis as other differences in the conditions
of employment axising from the- variant exercise by employers and employees of their right to agree upon the
terms of employment. And see Borgnis v. Falk Co., 147
Wisconsin, 327, 354; Mathison v. Minneapolis Street Ry.
Co., 126 Minnesota, 286, 294.
In recent years many of the States have passed elective
workmen's compensation laws not differing essentially
from the one here in question, and they have been sustained by well-considered opinions of the state courts of
last resort against attacks based upon all kinds of constitutional objections, including alleged denial of the equal
protection of the laws; usually, however, from the standpoint of the employer. Sexton v. Newark District Telegraph
Co., 84 N. J. L. 85; 86 N. J. L. 701; Opinion of Justices,
209 Massachusetts, 607; Young v. Duncan, 218 Massachusetts, 346; Borgnis v. Falk Co., 147 Wisconsin, 327; State
v. Creamer, 85 Ohio St. 349; Deibeikis v. Link-Belt Co.,
261 Illinois, 454; Crooks v. Tazewell Coal Co., 263 Illinois,
343; Victor Chemical Works v. Industrial Board, 274
Illinois, 11; Mathison v. Minneapolis Street Ry. Co., 126
Minnesota, 286; ,Shade v. Cement Co., 93 Kansas, 257;
Sayles v. Foley, 38 R. I. 484; Greene v. Caldwell, 170 Kentucky, 571; Hunter v. Colfax Coal Co.,' 175 Iowa, 245.
The Ohio law was sustained by this court against special

MIDDLETON v. TEXAS POWER & LIGHT CO. 161
152.

Opinion of the Court.

attacks in Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576, and
the Iowa law in Hawkins V. Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210, 213,
et seq.
Stress is laid upon the point that the Texas act, while
c ptional to the employer, is compulsory as to the employee
of a subscribing employer. Our attention is not called
to any express provision prohibiting a voluntary agreement between a subscribing employer and one or more of
his employees taking them out of the operation of the act;
but probably such an agreement might be held by the
courts of the State to be inconsistent with ,the general
policy of the act; the supreme court, in the case before us,
did not intimate that such special agreements would be
permissible; and hence it is fair to assume that all who
remain in"the employ of a subscribing employer, with no,
tice that he has provided for payment of compensation
by the association or by an authorized insurance company,
will be bound by the provisions of the act.
But a moment's reflection will show the impossibility
of giving an option both to the employer and to the employee and enabling them to exercise it in diverse ways.
The provisions of the act show that the legislative purpose is that it shall take effect only upon acceptance by
both employer and employee. The former accepts by
becoming a subscriber; the latter by remaining in the
service of the employer after notice of such acceptance.
And we see in this no ground for holding that'there is a
denial of the equal protection of the laws as between employer and employee. They stand in different relations
to the common undertaking, and it was permissible to
recognize this in determining how they should accept or
reject the new system. The employer provides the plant,
the organization,. the capital, the credit, and necessarily
must control and manage the operation. In the nature
of things his contribution has less mobility than that of
the employee, who may go from place to place seeking

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

satisfactory employment, while the employer's plant and
business are comparatively, even if not absolutely, fixed
in position. Again, in order that the new scheme of compensation should be a success, the legislature deemed it
proper, if not essential, that the payment of compensation to the injured employees or their dependents should
be rendered secure, and the losses to individual employers
distributed, by a system of compensation insurance, in
which it was deemed important that all employees of a
given employer should be treated alike. Still further,
there are reasons affecting the contentment of the employees and the discipline of the force, rendering it desirable that all serving under a common employer should
be subject to a single rule as to compensation in the event
of injury or death arising in the course of the employment.
These and other considerations that might be suggested
fully justified the legislative body of the. State in determining that acceptance of thenew system should rest
upon the initiative of the employer, and that any particular employee who with notice of the employer's acceptance dissented from the resulting arrangement should
be required to exercise his option by withdrawing from
the employment. The relation of employer and employee
being a voluntary relation, it was well within the power of
the State to permit employers to accept or reject the new
plan of compensation, each for himself, as a part of the
terms of employment; and in doing this there was no
denial to employees of the equal protection of the laws
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
This disposes of all contentions made under the equal
protection clause.
It is argued further that there is a deprivation of liberty
and property without due process of law in requiring
employees, wilgly or unwillingly, to accept the new
system where their employer has adopted it. Of course
there is no suggestion of a deprivation of vested property

MIDDLETON v. TEXAS POWER & LIGHT CO.
152.

163

Opinion of the Court.

in the present 6ase, since the law was passed in April and
took effect in September, while the plaintiff's injuries
were received in the following December, after he had been
notified of his employer's acceptance of the act. What
plaintiff has lost, therefore, is only a part of his liberty to
make such contract as he pleased with a particular employer and to pursue his employment under the rules of
law that previously had obtained fixing responsibility
upon the employer for any personal injuries the plaintiff
might sustain through the negligence of the employer or
his agents. But, as has been held so often, the liberty
of the citizen does not include among its incidents any
vested right to have the rules of law remain unchanged'
for his benefit. The law of master and servant, as a body
of rules of conduct, is subject to change by legislation
in the public interest. The definition of negligence, contributory negligence, and assumption of risk, the effect
to be given to them, the rule of respondeat superior, the
imposition of liability without fault, and the exemption
from liability in spite of fault-all these, as rules of conduct,
are subject to legislative modification. And a plan imposing upon the employer responsibility for making compensation for disabling or fatal injuries irrespective of the
question of fault, and requiring the employee to assume
all risk of damages over and above the statutory schedule,
when established as a reasonable substitute for the legal
measure of duty and' responsibility previously existing,
may be made compulsory upon employees as well as employers. New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S.
188, 198-206; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243
U. S. 219, 234.
All objections to the act on constitutional grounds being
found untenable, the judgment under review is

Affirmed.

