OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

frontage rule of assessment, now generally in use, has
been frequently sustained by the decisions of this court.
It may and does in some instances work inequalities in
benefits conferred upon property assessed. In the present
case a calculation found in the brief of the defendant in
error, the correctness of which does not seem to be challenged, shows that if the property had been assessed by
the front-foot rule, that of the plaintiff in error would
have had a larger assessment than the one which resulted
from the method employed.
The Supreme Court of ,Missouri found that no evidence
was offered to sustain the allegations of the cross-bill that
the tax-bills were confiscatory or disproportionate to the
benefits received in that the city escaped paying its just'
proportion of the cost of the improvement because of
its ownership of property within the district.
We are not prepared to say that the plaintiff in error,
because of arbitrary legislative action or the abuse of
power, was denied due process of law or the equal protection of the laws in this assessment.
Affirmed.

COMPARIA GENERAL DE TABACOS DE FILIPINAS v. ALHAMBRA CIGAR & CIGARETTE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 180.

Submitted January 22, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.

An appeal from the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands perfected

before the Act of September 6, 1916, is governed by § 248 of the
Judicial Code, which gives this court jurisdiction in all cases in
which any treaty of the United States i: involved. P. 75.

COMPANIA GENERAL i,.ALHAMBRA CIGAR CO.
72.

73

Opinion of the Court.

A decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippines that the name
"Isabela" is a geographical and descriptive term not subject to
registration as a trade-name under the law before or since the cession
of the Islands, and that its use as a designation of cigars and cigarettes
was not unfair competition, and that the suit was not for infringement of a trade-name, "La Flor de la Isabela," registered under
the Spanish regime, held not to involve the provisions of the Treaty
of Paris of 1898, Arts. VIII and XIII, providing that the cession
shall not impair property rights previously acquired, and that rights
of property secured by copyrights and patents acquired by Spaniards
in the Islands shall be continued and respected. P. 75. Ubeda v.
Zialcita, 226 U. S. 452, distinguished.
Appeal to review 33 Phil. Rep. 485, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. C. Fisher for appellant.
Mr. Harry W. Van Dyke for appellee.
Van Dyke was also on the brief.

Mr. Edmund W.

MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Suit was brought by the appellant, a corporation organized under the laws of Spain, in the Court of First
Instance of Manila. The complainant set up that for
more than twenty-seven years it had been engaged in the
business of manufacturing cigars and cigarettes in the
Philippine Islands. That its factory is known as "La
Flor de la Isabela," which name is used upon the packages

and containers of the products manufactured by complainant and on the advertising matter in its cigar and
cigarette business. That on April 5, 1887, the Kingdom of
Spain as the sovereign authority in the Philippine Islands
issued to it, under laws then in force, a certificate of
registration and ownership of certain trade-marks and
trade-names and label designs therein described and
enumerated, including the trade-name "La Flor de la

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

*249 U. S.

Isabela" conferring the right upon the complainant to all
the benefits appurtenant theretQ, including the right to
prosecute for infringement. That the trade-name has
been in continuous use solely by the complainant from
the issuance of the Spanish certificate of registration and
ownership to the time of bringing suit, except for the
acts of the appellee. That by reason of the long-continued
use of the phrase "La Flor de la Isabela" to designate its
factory and its products the said phrase and sundry
abbreviations thereof when applied to the manufactures
of tobacco as a distinguishing. brand or name had come to
have a secondary meaning designating and denoting that
they are the products of its factory. In common parlance
the name "La Flor de la, Isabela" is abbreviated to
"Isabelas" when applied to cigars or cigarettes. That
on or about the first of June, 1914, the defendant, now
appellee, a corporation organized under the laws of the
Philippine Islands, engaged in the ma:ufacture and sale of
cigars and cigarettes in Manila and elsewhere in the
Philippine Islands, unlawfully misappropriated to its own
use and benefit the word "Isabelas" in its secondary
meaning as a distinguishing brand or name of its tobacco
products. That the unlawful use of the name "Isabelas"
as the distinguishing brand or name of the products of the
defendant is calculated to deceive the public into the
belief that the goods of the defendant so designated and
branded are the goods manufactured by the complainant,
and that the use thereof by the defendant will cause it
irreparable injury. An injunction was prayed against the
defendant, and an accounting sought.
The Court of First Instance found in favor of the complainant because of its exclusive ownership of the Spanish
trade-mark, and in favor of the defendant on the question
of unfair competition. Upon appeal to the Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands, that court found in favor of the
defendant upon both issues, and directed a reversal of the

COMPARIA GENERAL v. ALHAMBRA CIGAR CO.
72.

75

Opinion of the Court.

judgment below. 33 Phil. Rep. 485. Appeal to this court
was sought and allowed upon the ground that the judgment of the Supreme Court was in an action which-iz:
volved the Paris Treaty of 1898 between the United
States and Spain, because it is therein provided that the
property rights of private establishments or associations
having legal capacity to acquire and possess property, and
especially the rights of property secured by copyrights and
patents acquired by spaniards in the Philippine Islands
at the time of the ratification of the treaty, shall not-be
impaired, but shall continue to be respected.
This appeal was perfected before the Act of September 6, 1916, 39 Stat. 726, and is controlled by § 248 of the
Judicial Code, which provided that this court should
have jurisdiction to review, revise, reverse, modify or
affirm the final judgments and decrees of the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands in all actions, casesr
causes, and proceedings in which the Constitution, or any
statute, treaty, title, right, or privilege of the United States
is involved.
The contention is that the provisions of this treaty were
involved in the decision of the Supreme Court, thereby
authorizing this appeal.
By the Treaty of Paris of 1898, Spain ceded to the
United States the archipelago known as the Philippine
Islands. In Article VIII of the treaty it is provided that
the relinquishment or cession, as the case may be," cannot
in any respect impair the property or rights which by law
belong to the peaceful possession of property of all kinds,
of provinces, municipalities, public or private establishments, ecclesiastical or civic bodies, or any other associations having legal capacity to acquire and possess property
in the aforesaid territories renounced or ceded, or of
private individuals, of whatsoever nationality such individuals may be." Article XIII provides that "The
rights of property secured by copyrights and patents ac-

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

quired by Spaniards in the Island of Cuba and in Porto
Rico, the Philippines and other ceded territories, at the
time of the exchange of the ratifications of this treaty,
shall continue to be respected." Treaties in Force, 1904,
pp. 722, 725, 726. [30 Stat. 1754.]
It is the evident purpose of these provisions, in view of
the cession of territory made by Spain to the United
States, to preserve private rights of property, and to
provide that the change of sovereignty should work no
impairment of such rights.
The Philippine Act of 1902, carried into the section of
the Judicial Code which we have quoted, intended to give
this court jurisdiction in cases involving rights secured by
the Treaty of 1898 and other treaties of the United States.
A good illustration of a case of this character is found in
Vilas v. Manila, 220 U. S. 345, where certain claims were
made against the City of Manila, which it was contended
survived, notwithstanding the cession to the United
States. A writ of error was sued out to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands denying relief
because of its holding that the municipality of Manila
after the treaty was a totally different corporate entity
and in nowise liable for debts created under the Spanish
sovereignty. Exception was taken to the jurisdiction, but
this court held that the case involved the Treaty of 1898,
as the question was made to turn in the court below upon
the consequence of the change of sovereignty and the
reincorporation of the city after the substituted sovereignty. Mr. Justice Lurton, who delivered the opinion
of the court, said: "This disposes of the question of the
jurisdiction of this court grounded upon the absence from
the petition of the plaintiffs of any distinct claim under
the treaty. of Paris, since under § 10 of the Philippine
Organic Act of July 1, 1902, this court is given jurisdiction
to review any final decree or judgment of the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands where any treaty of the

(CO)MPARIA (ENEIIAL
72.

v. ALHAMBRA CIGAR CO.

77

Opinion of the Court.

United States 'is involved.' That treaty was necessarily
'involved,' since neithef the court below nor this court can
determine the continuity of the municipality nor the
liability of the city as it now exists for the obligation of
the old tity, without considering the effect of the change
of sovereignty resulting from that treaty. See Reavis V.
Fianza, 215 U. S. 16, 22."
In this case no such question is presented. The decision
involved no consideration of treaty rights, nor were the
same discussed in the judgment in the court below. The
Philippine Supreme Court, in determining the issues, held
that the name "Isabela," which appellee was charged with
using, was a geographical "and descriptive term and
incapable of registration as a trade-mark either under the
Philippine Act No. 666, or the law as it existed under the
Spanish regime; that the Spanish trade-name as registered
consisted of the words "La Flor de la Isabela" and the
trade-mark of a shield with certain devices thereon. That
the action was not for the infringement of the trade-name
"La Flor de la Isabela," but was for the violation of the
trade-name "Isabela." And that unfair competition was
not shown.
Certainly the treaty, in providing that property rights
of this class should be respected, did not intend to prevent
the consideration by the courts of the nature and extent
of the rights granted, or prohibit the application of laws
for the enforcement and regulation of such property
rights when not in derogation thereof. Philippine Act
No. 666, § 14, Comp. of the Acts of the Philippine Comm.,
§ 68, itself provides that certificates issued under the
Spanish sovereignty, urannulled under the royal decree of
1888, shall be conclusive evidence of the exclusive right of
ownership of.such trade-marks or trade-names.
Reliance is had by appellant, to sustain the jurisdiction,
on the decision of this court in Ubeda v. Zialcita,226 U..S.
452. There suit was brought upon a trade-mark registered

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

under the Spanish regime. The record shows that the
appeal was allowed upon two grounds: (1) that the amount
involved exceeded $25,000; (2) alleged violation of treaty
rights in the decision that the trade-mark being itself an
imitation of earlier trade-marks prevented an injunction
in favor of its owner. As to the treaty claim this court
said (p. 454): "In such a case [the wrongful appropriation
of an earlier mark] the Philippine act denies thfe plaintiff's
right to recover. Act No. 666, § 9. See § 12, and No. 744,
§ 4. Compiled Acts, §§ 63; 66. It is said that to apply
the rule there laid down would be giving a retrospective
effect to § 9 as against the alleged Spanish grant of December 16, 1898, to the plaintiff, contrary to the general
principles of interpretation and to Article 13 of the Treaty
of Paris, April 11, 1899, providing that the rights of property secured by copyrights and patents shall continue to
be respected. But the treaty, if applicable, cannot be
supposed to have been intended to contravene the principle of § 9, which only codifies common morality and
fairness. The section is not retrospective in any sense,
for it introduces no new rule."
Certainly, this was far from holding that a right of
appeal existed because a right secured by the treaty was
involved.
The present case was decided upon grounds entirely
compatible with continued respect for the trade-mark and
trade-name rights granted by the Spanish sovereignty.
It results that in the sense of the statute, giving a right to
review in this court, no treaty of the United States was
involved in the decree which it is sought to reverse.
The appeal must be
Dismtsised.

