DOMINION HOTEL v. ARIZONA.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

DOMINION HOTEL, INCORPORATED, v. STATE
OF ARIZONA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA.
No. 178.

Submitted March 11, 1919.-Decided March 24,1919.

Under the equal protection clause, a State may do what it can to prevent what is deemed an evil and stop short of those cases in which
the harm to the few concerned is thought less important than the
harm to the public that 'would ensue if the rule were made mathematically exact. P. 268.
A law of Arizona (Penal Code, par. 717), placing restrictions upon the
hours of labor of women un hotels, with penalties upon hotel-keepers
for infractions, excepts in part railroad restaurants or eating-houses
upon railroad rights of way and operated by or under contract with
any railroad company. Held, that the court cannot say, upon its
judicial knowledge, that the legislature had no adequate ground for
the distinction; possibly one might be found in the need of adjusting
the service in the excepted restaurants to the hours of trains. Id.
18 Arizona, 345, affirmed.

THm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harvey M. Friend for plaintiff in error. Mr. S. H.
Morris and Mr. James R. Malott were on the brief:
The classification bears no relation to the purpose of
the law. The undeniable effect of the statute, as it was
construed by the Arizona courts, is to impose upon some
employers of female labor a restriction on their right to
contract with their employees that is not imposed upon
all employers of the sane class. The plaintiff in error was
held to 'be and now is guilty of a misdemeanor if it permits its waitresses to serve meals from 7 a. m. to 10 a. in.,
from 12 m. to 2 p. in., and from 6 p. m. to 8:30 p. m.,
since those hours of work cover a greater period than
twelve hours; but a railroad eating-house, which may be a
competitor, catering to the same class of trade and located

OCOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

249 U. S.

just across the street, can permit its waitresses to: work
the same hours without fear of prosecution, since it comes
within the class favored by the law. To avoid prosecution the plaintiff in error is compelled either to hire an
extra slift of waitresses to serve one meal, to employ less
efficient and more expensive male employees, or to close
its plant for a part of the few customary meal hours during
which it is operated.
It has been repeatedly determined that one of the essential elements of classification as distinguished from
discrimination in legislation is that the classification shall
be based upon a distinction having reference to the subject-matter of the legislation. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe
Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Ry. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S.96, 105; Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. Co. v. Vosburg, 238 U. S. 56, 59. An application of
the rule to a set of facts somewhat similar to those existing
in the present case was recently made in the case of State
v. Le Barron, 24 Wyoming, 519. The nature of the employment of waitresses in railroad restaurants is not different from that in other restaurants. And under the facts
of the present case, the plaintiff in error might be said to
operate a railroad restaurant except for the single question
of ownership. A railroad restaurant caters to the same
class of persons and at the same hours as the plaintiff in
error. The plaintiff in error served transients arriving
on an evening train and departing on a morning train.
Moreover, as plaintiff in error offered to show, it operated its restaurant at the hours complained of by the State,
for the convenience of these transients. We further offered to show that the restaurant in question was located
near the railroad station. On the question of whether
ownership alone constitutes a sufficient ground for the
classification of restaurants, see Vandalia R. R. Co. v.
Stillwell, 181 Indiana, 267, in which the Supreme Court

DOMINION HOTEL v. ARIZONA.

265.

Opinion of the Court.

of Indiana declared that "the character of the employment, and not the character of the employer, must be
the true test." That case was affirmed without opinion
by this court. 239 U. S. 637.
The law does not apply to all members of the same
class. As we have already shown, the law divides restaurants into two divisions-railroad restaurants and
all others. But that such a sub-classification cannot be
legally made has been repeatedly decided by the courts.
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Soon Hing v. Crowley,
113 U. S. 703; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678;
State v. Julow, 129 Missouri, 163; State v. Miksicek, 225
Missouri, 561; Schmalz v. Wooley, 56 N. J. Eq. 655; Block
v. Schwartz, 27 Utah, 387; Randolph v. Wood, 49 N. J. L.
85; Bedford QuarriesCo. v. Bough, 168 Indiana, 671; Johnson v. St. Paul &c. R. R. Co., 43 Minnesota, 222.
Mr. Wiley E. Jones, Attorney General of the State of
Arizona, and Mr. Samuel Herrick for defendant in error.
MR. JusucE HoM
court.

ssdelivered the opinion of the

This is an information alleging that the defendant, the
plaintiff in error, was engaged in the hotel business and
permitted a woman to work in the hotel for eight hours
and that the "said eight hours of work was not then and
there performed within a period of twelve hours," with a
denial that the defendant was within the exceptions
made by the statute governing the case. The statute
provides as follows: "Provided further, that the said
eight hour period of work shall be performed within a
period of twelve hours, the period of twelve hours during
which such labor must be performed not to be applicable
to railroad restaurants or eating houses located upon railroad rights of way and operated by or under contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

with any railroad company."

24,) U. S.

Penal Code of Arizona,

Paragraph 717. The defendant by demurrer and otherwise set up that the exceptions in the statute made it
void under the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States as depriving the defendant of
the equal protection of the laws. There was a trial and
judgment against the defendant which was sustained by
the Supreme Court of the State, Arizona.
The Fourteenth Amendment is not a pedagogical requirement of the impracticable. The equal protection of
the laws does not mean that all occupations that are
called by the same name must be treated in the same way.
The power of the State "may be determined by degrees of
evil or exercised in cases where detriment is specially experienced." Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, 240 U. S.
510, 517. It may do what it can to prevent what is
deemed an evil and stop short of those Cases in which
the harm to the few concerned is thought less important
than the harm to the public that would ensue if the rule
laid down were made mathematically exact. The only
question is whether we can say on our judicial knowledge
that the legislature of Arizona could not have had any
reasonable ground for believing that there were such
public considerations for the distinction made by the
present law. The deference due to the judgment of the
legislature on the matter has been emphasized again and
again. Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303. Of course,
this is especially true when lqcal conditions may affect
the answer, conditions that the legislature does but that
we cannot know. Cusack Co. v. Chicago, 242 U. S. 526,
530, 531.
Presumably, or at least possibly, the main custom of
restaurants upon railroad rights of way comes from the
passengers upon trains, tjiat top to allow them to eat.
The work must be adjusted to the hours of the trains.
This fact makes a practical and, it may be, an finportant

ST. LOUIS POSTER ADV. Co. v. ST. LOUIS.
265.

269

Syllabus.

distinction between such restaurants and others. If in
its theory the distinction is justifiable, as for all that we
know it is, the fact that some cases, including the plaintiff's, aru very near to the line makes it none the worse.
That is the inevitable result of drawing a line where the
distinctions are distinctions of degree; and the constant
business of the law is to draw such lines. "Upholding the
act as embodying a principle generally fair and doing
as nearly equal justice as can be expected seems to import that if a particular case of hardship arises under it
in its natural and ordinary application, that hardship
must. be borne as one of the imperfections of human
things." Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber Asphalt Co., 197 U. S.430, 434. We cannot pronounce the
statute void.

Judgment affirmed.

ST. LOUIS POSTER ADVERTISING COMPANY v.
CITY OF ST. LOUIS ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

ST. LOUIS POSTER ADVERTISING COMPANY v.
CITY OF ST. LOUIS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Nos. 220 and 2. Argued March 12, 13, 1919.-Decided March 24, 1919.
A city ordinance allowing no billboard of 25 square feet or more to be
put up without a permit, and none to extend more than 14 feet high
above ground; requiring an open. space of 4 feet between th3 lower
edge and the ground; forbidding an approach of nearer than 6 feet
to any building or to the side of any lot than 2 feet to any . other

