OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

in effect requiring the label that showed compliance with
the act of Congress to be removed from the package before
the first sale by the importer, and while the goods remained
still subject to federal inspection.
The judgment under review should be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. LAUGHLIN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.' 200.

Argued January 30, 31, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

The Act of March 26, 1908, c. 102, 35 Stat. 48, providing for repayment in all cases where it shall appear to the satisfaction of the
Secretary of the Interior that excessive payments have been made
to the United States under the public land laws, gives the Secretary
exclusive jurisdiction to determine questions of fact; but when the
undisputed facts, shown to his satisfaction, call for repayment as a
matter of law, his adverse decision is reviewable by the courts and
may be reviewed by an action brought by the claimant under Jud.
Code, § 145, in the Court of Claims. P. 442.
Under the Northern Pacific land grant Act of July 2, 1864, c. 217,
13 Stat. 365, the filing of a map of general route, although followed
by a withdrawal order, did not take the odd sections out of the
public domain or exempt them from entry under the preemption
and homestead laws prior to the filing and acceptance of the map
of definite location. P. 444. Nelson v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co.,
188 U. S. 108.
The Act of 1864, supra, fixed no special price for odd-numbered sections within the limits of the Northern Pacific grant, and the right
of a qualified person to preempt such a section prior to the acceptance
of the railway's map of definite location at the minimum price of
$1.25 per acre (Rev. Stats., §§ 2357, 2259), was a substantial right
of which he could not be arbitrarily deprived by government officials. P. 446.
Revised Stats., § 2364, providing that the Commissioner of the General Land Office shall fix a price of not less than $1.25 per acre for

UNITED STATES v. LAUGHLIN.
440.

Opinion of the Court.

the lands of any reservation when brought into market, has no

application to withdrawn odd sections within the Northern Pacific
grant limits, when prefmpted before definite location of the railroad.
P. 447.
The Act of June 22, 1874, c. 400, IS Stat. 194, confers no authority
upon officials of the United States to charge more for land relinquished by the Northern Pacific Company than otherwise might
have been charged. P. 446.
32 Ct. Cims. 292, affirmed.

TH case is stated in the opimon.
Mr. C. Edward Wright, with whom Mr. Huston Thompson and Mr. Charles D. Mahaffc were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. F. W. Clements, with whom Mr. Win. R. Andrews
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case, although involving but two hundred dollars,
is deemed by the Government to be important because
typical of a large group of cases of like character. Suit
was brought by Laughlin in the Court of Claims under
§ 2 of the Act of March 26, 1908, c. 102, 35 Stat. 48, for
the repayment of an alleged excess charge exacted of him
when he made a preemption cash entry November 20,
1878, for a tract of 160 acres of public land, part of Section 33, Township 5 South, Range 12 East, W. M., in
the Dalles, Oregon, land district, for which he was charged
by the proper officer of the United States the sum of $400,
or.at the rate of $2.50 per acre. There was a judgment in
favor of the claimant (52 Ct. Chms. 292), and the present
appeal followed.
The land is a part of an odd-numbered section within 40
miles of the general route of the Northern Pacific Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Company, as shown by its map filed in the Interior Department August 13, 1870, upon' the basis of which the
Department, on February 14, 1872, issued an order withholding from disposition the odd-numbered sections of
public lands and increasing in price to $2.50 per acre the
even-numbered sections within the limits indicated by the
map. No map of definite location of this particular portion of the proposed railroad was ever filed; this portion
never was constructed, and the grant as to it was forfeited by Act of Congress of September 29, 1890, c. 1040,
26 Stat. 496. Claimant applied to the Secretary of the
Interior under the Act of March 26, 1908, for the refund
of $200 of the purchase price, alleging that the lawful
price was $1.25 per acre; but the Secretary, on July 22,
1916, although finding the facts to be as above stated,
denied the application upon the ground that the questions
of law presented had been previously adjudicated by the
Land Department adversely to claimant's contention.
Upon the present appeal it first is insisted in behalf of
the Government that the Court of Claims had no jurisdiction of the subject-matter. If there was jurisdictioni
it arose from the clause of § 145, Judicial Code, which
*confers upon, that court jurisdiction to hear and determine claims founded upon "any law of Congress"-the
Act of March 26, 1908, being the law relied on. Section 2
of this act reads as follows: "That in all cases where it
shall appear to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the
Interior that any person has heretofore or shall hereafter
make any payments to the United States under the public
land laws in excess'of the amount he was lawfully required
to pay under such laws, such excess shall be repaid to
such person .or to his legal representatives." The third
section provides machinery for the payment of the amount
of the excess when ascertained. It is contended by the
Government that a favorable decision by the Secretary
is a condition precedent to the right of recovery under

UNITED STATES v. LAUGHLIN.
440

Opinion of the Court.

the section quoted; that since the Secretary disallowed the
present claim, because not satisfied that an excessive
payment under the law had been made, there has been
no violation of any right of -claimant; and that hence
there is not presented a claim founded upon a law. of
Congress within the meaning of the term as employed in
defining the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims. We
cannot accept this construction of § 2 of the Act of 1908.
According to it, although facts were made to 'appear to
the entire satisfaction of the Secretary showing that a
person had made "payments to the United States under
the public land laws in excess of the amount he was lawfully required to pay under such laws," it would rest in
the uncontrolled judgment and discretion of the Secretary
to deny repayment of the excess because not satisfied
that it ought to be repaid, notwithstanding Congress had
declared that under the precise state of facts it should
be repaid. Under this -construction the legislative power
would in effect be delegated to the Secretary. In our
view it was the intent of Congress that the Secretary
should have exclusive jurisdiction only to determine disputed questions of fact, and that, as in other administrative matters, his decision upon questions of law should
be reviewable by the courts. In the case before us the
facts were not and are not in dispute and were shown to
the Secretary's satisfaction; whether, as matter of law,
they made a case of excess payment, entitling claimant
to repayment under the Act of 1908, was a matter properly
within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims. See Medbury v. United States, 173 U. S.492, 497-498; McLean v.
United States, 226 U. S.374, 378; United States v. Hvoslef,
237 U. S.1, 10.
Upon the merits, the question is, what price could a
pre mptor lawfully be required to pay for public lands
ifi
an odd-numbered section within the primary limits of
the Northern Pacific Railroad land grant after the filing

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

of a map of general route and the making of an order
withdrawing the odd-numbered sections from entry; no
map of definite location of the line in question having
at that time or at any time been filed.
The Company was incorporated by Act of July 2, 1864,
c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, by the third section of which there
was granted to it "every alternate section of public land,
not mineral, designated by odd numbers, . . . [within
defined limits] . . . whenever on the line thereof,
the United States have full title, not reserved, sold,
granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption, or other claims or rights, at the time the line
of said road is definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed
in the office of the commissioner of the general land-office;
and whenever, prior to said time, any of said sections
or parts of sections shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted,
or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be selected
by said company in lieu thereof, under the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections, and
designated by odd numbers, not more than ten miles
beyond the limits of said alternate sections." By § 6
it was enacted: "That the President of'the United
States shall cause the lands to be surveyed for forty
miles in width- on both sides of the entire line of said
road, after the general route shall be fixed, and as fast
as may be required by the construction of said railroad;
and the odd sections of land hereby granted shall not
be liable to sale, or entry, or preemption before or after
they are surveyed, except by said company, as provided
in this act. . . . And the reserved alternate sections
shall not be sold by the government at a price less than
two dollars and fifty cents per acre, when offered for
sale."
Notwithstanding certain expressions in Buttz v. Northern
Pacific Railroad, 119 U. S. 55, 71-72, it came to be settled

UNITED STATES v. LAUGH1'N.
440.

Opinion of the Court.

by a line of more recent cases, ending with Nelson v.
Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 188 U. S. 108, 116, 119, 121,
-that the Act of 1864 granted to the railroad company
only those alternate odd-numbered sections to which
at the time of definite location the 'United States had
valid title and which then were free from preemption or
other claims or rights; that the company acquired no
vested interest in any particular section of land until
after a definite location and acceptance of its mip thereof;
and that until then the grant was in the nature of a
"float."
In that case the right of a homestead settler
who went upon unsurveyed land after the filing of a map
of general route and afte- the making and transmission
to the proper local land office of a withdrawal order based
upon that map, and who, as soon as survey was'made
developing the fact that his land was within an oddnumbered section, attempted to enter it under the homestead laws in the-local land office, his application being
rejected solely because of supposed conflict with the grant
to the Northern Pacific Railroad, was sustained as against
the company upon the ground that the acceptance by
the land department of the map of general route and the
making of a withdrawal order based upon it did not, in
view of the terms of the granting act, segregate the land
from the public domain or withdraw it from occupancy
in good faith by homestead settlers prior to definite
location, In Nortliern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Sanders, 166
U. S. 620, it was held upon like reasoning that the title
of the railroad company was defeated by an entry upon
lands within the primary limits of the grant by persons
qualified to purchase them as mineral lands, followed by
an application to purchase them as such which was pending
at the time of the definite location of the railroad although
initiated after the filing of the general route, notwithstanding the fact that the lands were not such as properly
were to be regarded as mineral lands.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

In short, construing §§ 3 and 6 of the granting act
together,, the filing of a map of general route, although
followed by a withdrawal order, did not take the granted
sections out of the public domain or e~empt them from
entry under the preemption and homestead laws prior
to the filing and acceptance of the map of definite location.
It is said on the part of the Government that this land
was restored to entry and the claimant's application for
purchase accepted because the railroad company had
filed a relinquishment pursuant to the Act of June 22,
1874, c. 400, 18 Stat. 194; at the same time it is insisted
that the provisions of that act have no bearing upon the
determination of this case because not only had the
land office never declared that the company's rights had
attached to these lands, but in fact it never had any
rights. It is said that under such circumstances the
department uniformly has held that the Act of 1874 has
no application; the practice of the land office having
been to permit relinquishments in cases like the present
in order to expedite the perfection of settlement claims,
while saving to the railroad companies any rights they
might have under the Act of 1874 to be determined upon
the final adjustment of the grant. There being no finding
that the lands in question had been relinquished by the
railroad company under the Act of 1874, we give no
weight to its provisions, beyond, saying that in any
point of view they conferred no authority upon the
officials of the Government to charge more for the land
relinquished than otherwise might have been charged.
It declares that "entries or filings thus relieved from
conflict may be perfected into complete title as if such
lands had not been granted."
It is clear that the price of lands in odd-numbered
sections was not fixed by the g-anting act of 1864. Section 6 fixed a price of two dollars and fifty cents per acre
only for the alternate sections reserved to the United

UNITED STATES v. LAUGHLIN.
410.

Opinion of the Court.

States-that is, those bearing even numbers. We need
not pursue the suggestion of counsel for appellee that
there could be no "reserved alternate sections," within
the meaning of the price-fixing clause, until ascertainment
of the granted sections by the filing and acceptance of a
map of definite location; for, in any event, neither § 6
nor the withdrawal order made any provision for the
price of land in the odd-numbered sections. In the
absence of special provision the minimum price was
fixed by § 2357, Rev. Stats., at one dollar and twenty-:
five cents per acre, and under § 2259 a qualified preemptor
was entitled to purchase at the minimum price. This
was a substantial right, of which he could not be deprived
by arbitrary action of the officers of the Government.
The Government invokes the provisions of § 2364,
derived from an act contemporaneous with the land
grant (Act of July 2, 1864, c. 221, 13 Stat. 374), and
reading as follows: "Whenever any reservation of public
lands is brought into market, the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office shall fix a minimum price, not less
than one dollar and, twenty-five cents per acre, below'
which such lands shall not be disposed of." It is argued
that the withdrawal order of 1872 amounted to a "reservation of public lands" within the meaning of this
section, so far as it concerned the odd-numbered sections
within the limits, and that the sale of the particular
quarter-section to claimant amounted to a "bringing
into market" of this part of the reservation, so that the
commissioner of the general land office was permitted
to fix the minimum at such price as he saw 'fit not less
than $1.25 per acre, and was acting within his authority
when he set the price of these lands at $2.50 per acre.
But of this it suffices to say, as was pointed out in Nelson
v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., supra, that under the terms

of the granting act here under consideration the withdrawal on general route neither did nor could effectively

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Parties.

249 U. S.

reserve any of the odd-numbered sections from homestead or preemption settlement in advance of the definite
location of the line of the railroad; and, as has been
stated, there never was a definite location of that part
of the road which had been proposed to be built opposite
to the land thAt claimant took up.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must be
Affirmed.

CITIZENS BANK OF MICHIGAN CITY, INDIANA,
v. OPPERMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COUIT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 2.34.

Argued March 17, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

When a petition for rehearing is entertained in the state court, the
judgment does not become final for the purposes of review here
until the petition has been denied or otherwise disposed of, and the
three months' limitation prescribed by the Act of September 6,
1916, begins to run from that time. P. 450.
Under the Act of 1916, the review of judgments of state courts by
writ of error is limited to cases in which was really drawn in question
the validity of a .treaty or statute of or an authority exercised under
the United States; or the validity of a statute of, or an authority
exercised under, a State, on the ground of their being repugnant to
the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States. Id.
Writ of error to review 115 N. E. Rep. 55, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jeremiah B. Collins, with whom Mr. Worth W.
Pepple was on the brief, for plaint~ff in error.
Mr. S. J. Crumpacker, with whom Mr. Samuel Parker,
Mr. Frank E. Osborn, Mr. Lee L. Osb,, n and Mr. Wil
C. Crabill were on the brief, for defendant in error.

