MATTERS v. RYAN.
373.

Syllabus.

to resort to it, since the context makes clear that the
word "into," as used in the statute, refers to the State
of destination, and not to the means by which that end
is reached, the movement through one State as a mere
incident of transportation to the State into which it is
shipped.
The suggestion made in argument that although the
personal carriage of liquor through one State as a means
of carrying it beyond into another State violates the
statute, it does not necessarily follow that transportation
by common carrier through a State for a like purpose
would be such violation, because of the more facile opportunity in the one case than in the other for violating the
law of the State through which the liquor is carried, is without merit. In last analysis it but invites, not a construction of the statute as enacted, but an enactment by
constiction of a new and different statute.

A Virmed.

MATTERS v. RYAN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 141.

Submitted January 16, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

The District Court has no jurisdiction in habeas corps to determine
and award the custody of an infant at the suit of an alien against a
citizen of the State of forum, when the only substantial question is
which of the parties is the mother. P. 377.
The claim that such a case arises under a law of the United States because the infant was imported by the respondent in violation of the.
Inunigration Laws is frivolous. Id.

Ouere: Whether diversity of citizenship with an averment of pecuniary
interest could confer jurisdiction on a federal court in hab-as corpu.
P. 378.
Reversed.

OCT'OBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the (o urt.
THE

249 U. 8.

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Horace Kent Tenney, Mr. Roger Sherman and Mr.
Harry A. Parkin for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR.CHIEF -JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
On the 20th of May, 1916, Margaret Ryan, the appellee,
alleging herself to be a subject of the King of Great Britain
residing in Ottawa, Canada, applied for a writ of habeas
corpus to obtain the possession of her alleged minor child,
Irean, by taking'her from the asserted illegal custody of
Anna D. Matters, the appellant, alleged to be a resident
of the State of Illinois.
.The petition for habeas corpus charged that the said
child was born to petitioner ten months before in a h6ospital in Ottawa, but shortly after the birth of the child
she was kidnapped by the respondent, who secreted her
until August when she brought the child by railroad journey to Chicago from Ottawa and there illegally detained
her. It was charged that the cause of action arose under
the law of the United States, in .that the Immigration
Laws of the United States forbade the bringing of an
alien child under sixteen years of age from Canada into
the United States without being accompanied by its father
or mother, in the absence of permission by the inunigration authorities of the United States. An order was
entered allowing the prosecution of the habeas corpus proceedings in forna pauperis, and the Arit issued.
The respondent denied the averments of possession and
kidnapping. She alleged that she had a child of her own
about ten montls of age, and that if such child was the
one referred to in the petition for habeas corpus, the

MATTERS P. RYAN.
375.

.377

Opinion of the Court.

petitioner had no right to the custody of the same. The
existence of any right in the petitioner to champion the
enforcement of the Immigration Laws of the United States
was denied, and the jurisdiction of the court to entertain
the controversy Was expressly challenged.
On the return, after hearing, jurisdiction was maintained, the return was held insufficient, and the pi.ti.
tioner was decreed to be entitled to the custody of the
child and the appellant was commanded to deliver her.
This direct appeal on the question of jurisdiction alone
was then'taken.
It is settled that "the jurisdiction of courts of the
United Stites to issue writs ot iabeas corpus is limited
to cases of persons alleged to be restrained of their libertyin violation of the Constitution or of some law or treaty
of the United States, and cases arising under the law of
nations." Carfer v. Caldwell, 200 U. S. 293, 296; In re
Burrus, 136 U. S. 586, 591; Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S.
272, 275; Storti v. Massachusetts, 183"U. S. 138, 142. It
is obvious that on the face of the petition the sole question
at issue was the maternity and custody of the child, and
as that question was in its nature local and non-federal
there was nothing to sustain the jurisdiction unless the
averment that the case was governed by the Immigration
Laws of the United States had that effect. But when it
is observed that the only basis for that assertion rested
upon the allegation that the defendant, pretendinj to be
the mother of the iifant child, had brought her from
Canada into the United States without complying with
the administrative requirements of the Immigration Laws,
we are of opinion that the case made involved no federal
question adequate to sustain the jurisdiction, because of
the unsubstantial and frivolous character of the contention made in that respect.
We are constrained to this conclusion since we axe unable to perceive the possible basis upon which it can bc

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

assumed that the- local question of maternity, and consequent right to custody, which dominated and controlled
the whole issue could be transformed and made federal in
character by the assertion concerning the Immigration
Laws. And this becomes all the more cogent when the
absence of power on the part of the petitioner to champion
the enforcement of the Immigration Laws is borne in
mind.
Whether a case might arise where a court of the United
States could take jurisdiction of a petition for habeas
corpus upon averment of diversity of citizenship and
pecuniary interest, without the assertion of a federal right,
does not here arise (a) because the suit was brought
exclusively under the assumption that it was governed by
the law of the United States which requires a federal
question to give jurisdiction, and (b) because, in any
event, there is here no averment of jurisdictional amount.
It follows that the decree below must be and it is
Reversed and the case remanded with directions to dismiss
the writ of habeas corpus.

EX PARTE HUDGINGS, PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.
No. 27, Original.

Argued December 9, 1918.-Declded April 14, 1919.

The basis of the power of thfe federal courts to punish summarily for
contempt committed in their presence is to secure them from obstruction in the pcrformance of their judicial duties; and to justify
exertion of this power, the element of obstruction must clearly appear. P. 383.
]h'eause perjury is punishable as a criminal offense is no reason why
it may not also afford basis for puiishment as a contempt. P. 382.

