GILLIS v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. CO.
510.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

determined by degrees of evil or exercised in cases where
detriment is specially experienced.' Armour & Co. v.
North Dakota, 240 U. S. 510, 517." Moreover, we pointed
out that "the deference due to the judgment of the legislature on the matter" had "been emphasized again and
again. Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303." Dominion
Hotel v. Arizona, ante, 265.
Necessarily the legislature of the State did not think,
and the courts below did not think, that individuals and
municipalities stood in the same relation to the evil aimed
at or that a public body charged with the care of the interests and welfare of the people would need the same restraint upon its action as an individual, or be induced to
detrimental conduct.
-Judgmentaffirmed.

GILLIS, ADMINISTRATRIX OF GILLIS, v. NEW
YORK, NEW HAVEN & HARTFORD RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 296.

Argued March 26, 27, 1919.--Decided April 21, 1919.

In the absence of manifest error, concurrent action of state trial and
appellate courts in finding no evidence of defendant's negligence
sufficient to go to the jury, in a case under the Federal Employers'

Liability Act, will not be reexamined by this court.
224 Massachusetts, 541. affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James J. McCarthy, with whom Mr. Daniel M.
Lyons and Mr. Thomas C. O'Brien were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Mr. John L. Hall for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE McKENNA delivered the opinion of :the
court.
Action under the Employers' Liability statute, 35 Stat.
65. Plaintiff in error's intestate, on November 3, 1912,
while in the railroad company's service in interstate commerce, was killed, through the negligence, in whole or in
part, it is charged, of one of the company's officers, agents
or employees.
The defenses of the company were denialof the declaration and averments that the intestate's injuries and death
were due to and caused by his own negligence and besides "were the result of acts, conditions and circumstances
the happening of which was assumed" by him.
The case was tried to a jury. At the conclusion of the
testimony, upon motion of defendant and over the objection and exception of plaintiff, the court ruled that
upon all of the evidence the plaintiff was not entitled to
recover and directed a verdict for defendant. It was
stipulated that the case was to be reported for the determination of the full court and that if the ruling and
direction should be held'to be right, then judgment was
to be entered for defendant. "If the case ought to have
been submitted to the jury, then judgment is to be entered
for the plaintiff in the sum of forty-five hundred ($4500)
dollars." The case was so reported. The full court
reviewed the testimony quite elaborately and concluded
from that review that "the only person who was negligent
was the deceased and the judge was right in directing a
verdict for the defendant," and cited Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. Wiles, 240 U. S. 444.
That case repeated the established principle that when
the evidence justifies it it is competent for a court to
Airect a verdict for' a defendant. The principle is not

UNITED RAILROADS v. SAN FRANCISCO.

517

Syllabus.

515.

attacked by plaintiff. The contention, however, is that
the courts below, one of which tried the case, were wrong
in their estimate of the evidence and that plaintiff was
entitled to the judgment of the jury upon it. We are
unable to yield to the contention. Nor do we think it
necessary to give a review of the evidence. It will be
found in the opinion of the court and we have verified
its correctness. The case turns, therefore, upon an appreciation of the testimony and admissible inferences
therefrom, and even if the conclusions of the courtswere
more disputable we should have to defer to them. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Whitacre, 242 U. S. 169; Erie
R. R. Co. v. Welsh, 242 U. S. 303.

Judgment affirmed.

UNITED RAILROADS OF SAN FRANCISCO v. CITY
AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 282.

Argued March 25, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

A general law, in force when a street railroad franchise was granted
by a city, provided that in no case must two railroad corporations
occupy and use the same street for more than five blocks; and the
franchise ordinance, referring to the law, expressed a like limitation
on the power of the board of supervisors, as to the streets covered
by the franchise. Held, that the limitation was not intended to
affect the city when constructing a street railroad of its own under
a later amendment of the law and of the state constitution. P. 519.
Held, further, that the grantee took the risk of this judicial intetpretation of its franchise and of the city's railroad being run in the
same streets on either side of its own, and that any damage inevitably resulting was not a taking of its property requiring resort to
eminent domain. P. 520.

