OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

249 U. S.

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. OCHS, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE
NAME OF A. C. OCHS BRICK & TILE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TM STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 159.

Argued January 20, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

Under the law of Minnesota a siding built by a railroad to reach a
private plant under the circumstances in this case becomes a public
track, part of the railroad's system and property and wholly under
its control. P. 419.
Within the limits of what is reasonable, and not arbitrary, a State,
upon due notice and opportunity for hearing, may require a railroad
company to alter and extend a side track, as a public track, and as
part of the railroad's property and system, for the purpose of serving
a private plant, but for all others as well who may have occasion to
use it, and may require the railroad to share the expense of construction; and this does not take the railroad's property for private use,
or without compensation for public use, in violation of the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 420.
In determining whether such a requirement is within the bounds of
reasonable reguhltion or essentially arbitrary, not only the expense,
but also the nature and volume of business to be affected, the revenue derivable from it, the character of the facility required, the
need for it and the advantage to shippers and the public, are to be
considered. P. 421.
35 Minnesota, 323, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. RichardL. Kennedy, with whom Mr. L. L. Brown,
Mr. W. D. Abbott and Mr. S. H. Somsen were on the briefs,
for plaintiff in error:

That the order for construction and maintenance
of this trackage, which involves an expenditure of money
and the taking of a part of the railway right 6f way,

CHICAGO*& N. W. RY. CO. v,.
OCHS.
416.

417

Opinion of the Court.

amounts to a taking of the railway company's property,
there can be no question. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196; Great Northern Ry. Co. v.
Minnesota, 238 U. S.340; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Ry. Co. v. Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491; Oregon R. R. & Na'.
Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403.
Any freight revenue that may come to the railway company by reason of the construction of this trackage, if
any, must be in the way of reasonable and legal charges
made to all shippers for services performed as a common
carrier and not as compensation for the taking of its
property. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Lumber Co., 174
Fed. Rep. 107.
Also the taking of property and the fixed right to compensation therefor must coincide although payment may
be deferred. The right must be fixed. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Wisconsin, supra; Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196; Sweet v. Rechel,
159 U. S. 380.
Property cannot be taken under the police power for
private use at all or for public use without compensation.
The track is not a public one under the law of Minnesota.
Since the rendition of the judgment, the railroad has
been taken over by the United States Railroad Administration, so that the order cannot be complied with.
Mr. Henry C. Flannery, with whom Mr. Clifford L.
Hilton and Mr. August G. Erickson were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JusricE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
An order of the Railroad and Warehouse Commission
tif
Minnesota requiring a railroad company to alter and

SOC',TOBER TERIM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

extend a side track leading from its main line to an adjacent brick and tile manufacturing plant is here in question. The order was made under a local statute (Gen.
Stats., 1913, §§ 4231, 4284) on complaint of the owner of
the plant, after due notice and full hearing, and on successive appeals was sustained by the district court of the
county and the Supreme Court of the State. 135 Minnesota, 323.
The principal controversy before the commission was
as to who should bear the cost of the work. The railroad
company objected to bearing any part and the owner of
the plant was not willing to bear all. If the cost was put
on the latter, the railroad company was ready to make
the alteration and extension. The statute, as construed
by the Supreme Court of the State, authorized the commission, if it ordered the work done, to make a reasonable
apportionment of the cost. State v. Chicago, Milwaukee &
St. Paul Ry. Co., 115 Minnesota, 51. By the order the
commission practically assigned two-thirds to the railroad company and one-third to the owner of the plant,
and required the latter to secure the right of way at its
own expense and to invest the railroad company with a
perpetual right to use the same for railroad purposes.
In the state courts the railroad company, without questioning the ternis of the apportionment, if the cost was
to be divided, contended that the statute as construed
and the order as made were repugnant to the due process
of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, in that to
require the company to bear any part of the cost was
to take its property for a private use without its consent,
or, if the use were public, to take the property for such
use without compensation. Both phases of the contention were overruled and this is the matter on which error
is assigned.
The facts are not in dispute and are these:
The plant is about a quarter of a mile from the railroad

CHICAGO & N. W. RY. CO. v,. OCHS.
416.

Opinion of the Court.

company's station at Springfield, Minnesota, a place of
over 1,500 inhabitants, and has been in operation as much
as twenty years. During that tin the railroad company
has maintained and operated a side track leading from
its main line to the plant and the products of the latter
have been shipped out and fuel and other supplies shipped
in over this track. The railroad company has been free
to use the track for other purposes and has done so occasionally. The yearly shipments from the plant have
been about 250 car loads and those to the plant about 50
car loads, the freight charges thereon exceeding $10,000.
Without the side track the plant would be a failure and
the public would be without its products; with it the plant
is a success and the products reach and are used by the
public. The demand for the products has come to exceed
greatly the capacity of the plant and the owner is now
enlarging it at a cost of $150,000. The output, as also the
aggregate freight charges, will be more than doubled
thereby. The entire output moves over this railroad,
no other being accessible. To serve the enlarged plant
and handle the increased shipments, out and in, the present side track-about 460 yards-must be rearranged
and extended about 350 yards. The estimated cost
of the work according to plans substantially agreed on
will be about $2,300.
Under the settled rule in Minnesota a side track such
as is in question here is not merely a private siding, but
"additional trackage for public use." If need be the rigfit
of way for it may be acquired by condemnation. It
becomes the property of the railroad company and an
integral part of its railroad system, and is wholly under
its control. Besides enabling the public to get the products of the industry served, it is at the service of all who
have occasion to use it and must be operated accordingly.
Range Sand-Lime Brick Co. v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 137
Minnesota, 314, and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Of such a track and of the power of the State to impress
on it it public character this courtsaid in Union Lime
Co. v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 233 U. S. 211, 222:
"'The uses for which the track was desired are not the
less public because the motive which dictated its location
over this particular land was to reach a private industry,
or because the proprietors of that industry contributed in
any way to the cost. '" There is a clear distinction between
spurs which are owned and operated by a common carrier
as a part of its system and underits public obligation and
merely private sidings. [Citing cases.]
. "While common carriers may not be compelled to make
unreasonable outlays (Missouri Pacific Rwy. Co. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196), it is competent for the State, acting within the sphere of its jurisdiction, to provide for
an extension of their, transportation facilities, under
reasonable conditions, so as to meet the demands of trade;
and it may inpress upon these extensions of the carriers'
lines, thus funished under the direction or authority
of the State, a public character regardless of the number
served at the beginning, The branch or spur comes into
existence as a public utility and as such is always available as, localities change and communities grow."
In our opinion the conditions here were such as to bring
the action of the State through its legislature' and commission within the range of that',power.
Recognizing then that the sid, track is for a public and
not a private use, we come to the question whether requiring the'railroad company to bear a part of the cost
involves a taking of its property without compensation.
As a coninon carrier a railroad company assumes and
must discharge the obligations which inhere in the nature
of its business. Amnong these obligations is that of providing reasonably adequate facilities for serving the
I

Ihrst,,

v. Durillc & 'Vcstcri Ry. Co., 208 U. S. 598, 608.

CHICAGO &*N. W. RY. CO. v. OCHS.
416.

Opinion of the Court.

public. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236
U. S. 585, 595. To do this requires an expenditure of
money, of course, but the expenditure is for property
which will belong to the company and be employed in its
business. The money is not taken from the company
and given to others, nor is the use of the facilities to be
uncompensated. Like other property employed by the
company in the transportation of persons or property,
the facilities have a real bearing on the rates which it is
entitled to charge. Therefore an enforced discharge of
the duty to provide such a facility does not amount to a
taking of property without compensation merely because
it is attended with some expense. Wisconsin, Minnesota
& Pacific R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, 302; Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 193 U. S.
53; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. North Carolina Corporation Commission, 206 U. S. 1, 26-27; Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262, 278-279; Oregon R. R.
& NavigationCo. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510, 529; Michigan
Central R. R. Co. v. Michigai? Railroad Commission, 236
U. S. 615, 631; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Public Service Commission of West Virginia, 242 U. S. 603.
Of course, the expense is an important element to be considered in detelrmining whether the requirement is within
the bounds of reasonable regulation or is essentially arbitrary, but it is not the only one. The nature and volume
of the business to be affected, the revenue to be derived
from it, the character of the facility required, the need for
it and the advantage to be realized by shippers and the
public are also to be considered. Tested by these criteria
we think the order in question is not arbitrary, but reasonable.
The case of Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 217
U. S. 196, on which the railroad company relies, is plainly
distinguishable. The Nebraska statute there condemned,
as applied by the state court, required the company to

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

bear the cost of "reduplicating already physically adequate accommodations," on the demand and for the benefit of certain shippers, and this in the absence of exceptional
circumstances, if any there could be, making such an
extraordinary requirement reasonable. Besides, the statute made no provision for a preliminary hearing before
an administrative body and yet subjected the company
to the risk of a fine of at least five hundred dollars if it
awaited a hearing in court on the reasonableness of the
demand.
Here there was provision for a full hearing before the
commission and also in the district court of the county.
Both found the existing facilities inadequate, and there
was ample evidence to sustain the finding; so the order
cannot be regarded as calling for a reduplication of what
already is supplied.
Judgment affirmed.

LAKE ERIE & WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY
v. STATE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF
ILLINOIS EX REL. CAMERON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No.,204.

Argued March 13, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

An order of a state coimnission, under legislative authority, requiring a
railroad to restore a siding, is a state law within the meaning of the
provisions of the Constitution and acts of Congress regulating the
jurisdiction of this court. P. 424.
Under the laws of Illinois, a side track of a railroad company, used
principally in moving freight from and to a particular plant, held
open to use by the public and subject to public control like other
parts of the railroad,-impressed with a public character. Id.
Chicago & Northwe8tern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, ante, 416, followed, as to the

