CORN PRODUCTS REFG. Co. r. E1)DY.
125

Syllahus.

as is shown by many precedents, to reverse the judgment
and remand the cause with a direction that it be dismissed without costs to either party. United States v.
Schooner Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103; New Orleans Flour Inspectors v. Glover, 160 U. S. 170, and 161 U. S. 101; Dinsmore v.
Southern Express Co., 183 U. S. 115; United States v.
Hamburg-Amerikanische Packetfahrt-Actien Gesellschaft,
239 U. S. 466; Berry v. Davis, 242 U. S. 468.
Judgment reversed. Cause to be dismissed without costs to
either party.

CORN PRODUCTS REFINING COMPANY v. EDDY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 119. Argued January 14, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.
A state regulation respecting the labeling of syrup compounds, which
does not discriminate against the manufacturer or his product or
against syrups as a class, held, not objectionable under the equal protection clause. P. 431.
The right of a manufacturer to maintain secrecy as to his compounds
and processes is subject to the right of the State, in the exercise of its
.police power, to require that the nature of the product be fairly set
forth. P. 432. Held: That a state regulation, requiring manufacturers of proprietary compound syrups to state definitely in conspicuous letters on the principal label the percentage of each ingredient, is consistent with the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Id.
It is the effect of a regulation as put in force by the State that determines whether it directly burdens interstate commerce, and not its
characterization, pr its construction by the state court. Id.
The proviso in § 8 of the Federal Pure Food Act, that nothing in the
act shall be construed as requiring proprietors or manufacturers of
proprietary foods which contain no unwholesbme added ingredient

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

to disclose their trade formulas, except in so far as the provisions of

the act may require to secure freedom from adulteration or misbranding, merely relates to the interpretatibn of the requirements of
that act, and does not enlarge its purview or establish a rule as to
matters which lie
outside its prohibitions. P. 439.
A i'egulation adopted by a state board of health, and in effect upheld
by the state court as authorized by the state pure food law, must be
regarded as state legislation in a~certaining its relation to the federal
food law. P. 437.
Neither under the commerce clause directly nor through the Federal
Pure Food Law, as amended, is a State forbidden to require that
proprietary foods, imported into the State and sold in the original
packages, shall bear labels stating the names and percentages of the
ingredients composing them. P. 433. Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S.
501, followed; McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115, distinguished.
99 Kansas, 63, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. 7'. 11. Lillard, with whom Mr. R. W. Blair and
Mr. C. A. Magaw were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. J. L. Hunt, Assistant Attorney General of the State
of. Kansas, with whom Mr. S. M. Brewster, Attorney
0eheral of the State of Kansas, and Mr. S. i. Hawkes,
Assistant Attorney General of the State of Kansas, were
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR.JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error (plaintiff in the original action) is a
corporation'which manufactures in the State of Illinois a
proprietary table syrup composed of 85 per cent. corn
syrup or glucose, 10 per cent. molasses, and 5 per cent.
sorghum, and sells it under the name of "Mary Jane" in
cans labeled as follows:
"5 Pounds Net Weight.
Mary Jane.
Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.

CORN PRODUCTS REFG. CO. r. EDDY.
427.

Opinion of the Court.

Mary Jane is guaranteed by Corn Products Refining
Co. to comply with the Food and Drugs Act, June 30,
1906. Registered under serial number 2317.
Mary Jane. A Table Syrup Prepared from Corn Syrup,
N1Iolasseb and Pure Country Sorghum. Contains Sulphur
Dioxide.
M'f'd by Corn Products Refining Co.
General Offices-New York, U. S. A.'.'
Prior to the beginning of the action plaintiff had agents
and representatives employed in soliciting, orders for this
syrup from wholesale merchants in the State of Kansas,
the orders being filled by shipping the required quantity
of the syrup in interstate commerce in the original sealed
cans with original labels attached. Defendants, who are
the members of the State Board of Health of Kansas,
deeming "Mary Jane" to be misbranded in several particulars within the meaning of the Food and Drugs Law
of that State (c. 266, Kans. Sess. Laws, 1907, as amended
by c. 184, Laws 1909; embodied in c. 35, Kans. Gen.
Stats. 1909; c. 32, Kans. Gen. Stats. 1915), and regulations
adopted by the Board under authority of that law, notified
plaintiff's agents an,., representatives and other persons
selling and dealing in "Mary Jane" syrup that unless
plaintiff complied with Regulation 6 of the State Board by
attaching in a conspicuous place on the outside of each
can sold or offered for sale within the State a label with
the word "compound" printed upon it, and stating definitely the percentage of each ingredient of which the syrup
was composed, they would be arrested and prosecuted.
Similar warnings were communicated to wholesale and
retail dealers who -were and long had been selling this
syrup in Kansas under the original brand and label.
Plaintiff brought an equitable action against the members of the board of health in one of the district courts of
the State; setting up the pertinent facts, alleging that
defendants were acting under the authority of the state

(()CIBER TERMI,

1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

law -and certain regulations adopted by them pursuant
to it, and among othbrs Regulation 6, requiring that in
the case of syrups the principal label should state definitely
the percentage of each ingredient, in the case of compounds,
mixtures, imitations, or blends; plaintiff further averring
that. the state law' and' the regulations referred to, particularly Regulation 6, were void because in conflict with
the interstate commerce clause (Art. I, § 8) of the Constitution of the United States and the Act of Congress of
June 30, 1906, c. 3915, 34 Stat. 768, and also in conflict
with the provisions of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment;
and that defendants were interfering with plaintiff's interstate commerce and with its lawful business in the State
of Kansas, thereby threatening plaintiff with great and
irreparable damage; and praying for an injunction.
Their general demurrer having been overruled, defendants answered and the case came on for hearing, with the
result that the district court made a finding "that all of
the allegations of plaintiff's petition are true"; and adjudged that there should be a perpetual injunction restraining defendants from interfering with the sale of "Mary
Jane" in the State of Kansas upon the ground that it
was misbranded when sold under the label above referred
to, and in particular from interfering, because of Regulation 6, with persons dealing in or selling the syrup, so
branded, within the State.
Upon appeal, the Supreme Court of Kansas reversed
the judgment with direction that the district court enter
judgment for the defendants (99 Kansas, 63); and the
case comes here on writ of error under §237, Judicial Code,
as amended September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, upon
the contention that the Kansas statute and the regulations
adopted by the state board pursuant to it, as interpreted
and applied by the -state court of last resort, are repugnant to the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution
of the United States (.rt. I, §8) and to the due process

CORN PRODUC(TS HFG. CO. t,'. EDDY.
427.

Opinion of the Court.

and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Aanendment, and especially are in conflict with the Federal Food
and Drugs Act.
Upon the argument here, the attack was centered upon
the effect of Regulation 6, which, so far as pertinent,
reads as follows: "Manufacturers of proprietary foods
are required to state upon the label the names and percentages of the materials used, so far as is necessary to
secure freedom from adulteration and misbranding:
(1) In the case of syrups, the principal label shall state
definitely, in conspicuous letters, the percentage of each
ingredient, in the case of compounds, mixtures, imitations,
or blends. When the name of the syrup includes the name
of one or more of the ingredients, the preponderating
ingredient shall be named first."
It will be convenient to deal first with the contention
made under the Fourteenth Amendment. It is not seriously insisted that there is a denial of the equal protection
of the laws, and we see no ground for such a. contention.
There is no discrimination against plaintiff in error or
its product, or against syrups as a class.
It is, however, urged that since plaintiff's syrup is a
proprietary food, made under a secret formula and sold
under its own distinctive name, and since it contains no
deleterious or injurious ingredients, the effect of the reglation in requiring plaintiff to disclose upon the label the
ingredients and their proportions amounts to a taking of
its property without due process of law. Evidently the
purpose of the requirement is to secure freedom from
adulteration and misbranding; the mischief of misbranding being that purchasers may be misled with respect
to the wholesomeness or food value of the compound.
And it is too plain for argument that a manufacturer or
vendor has no constitutional right to sell goods without
giving to the purchaser fair information of what it is that
is being sold. The right of a manufacturer to maintain

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

secrecy as to his compounds and processes must be held
subject to the right of the State, in the exercise of its
police power and in promotion of fair dealing, to require
that the nature of the product be fairly set forth. Heath
& Milligan Co. v. Worst, 207 U. S. 338, 353; Savage v.
Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 524; Standard Stock Food Co. v.
Wright, 225 U. S. 540, 548-549; Schmidinger v. Chicago,
226 U. S. 578, 588; Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, 240
U. S. 510, 514, 515; Hutchinson Ice Cream Co. v. Iowa,
242 U. S. 153, 159; Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297,
303.
We turn to the questions raised under the commerce
clause and the act of Congress.
Although the Supreme Court in its opinion said nothing
about interstate conmerce, it cannot be doubted, in the
state of the record, that defendants' activities against
which relief was sought included incidental interference
with plaintiff's interstate commerce in the "Mary Jane"
syrup; and that the general judgment in favor of defendants amounts to an adjudication that the state law and
regulations are to be enforced with respect to plaintiff's
product indiscriminately, not only when sold and offered
for sale in domestic commerce but also while in the hands
of the importing dealers for sale in the original packages
and hence, in contemplation of law, still in the course of
commerce from State to State. The silence of the Supreme
Court upon the subject cannot change the result in this
regard. In cases of this kind, we are concerned not with
the characterization or construction of the state law by
the state court, nor even with the question whether it
has in terms been construed, but solely with the effect
and operation of the law as put in force by the State.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350,
362; Kansas City &c. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227,
231; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219,
237; Crew Lcrick Co. v. Petsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 294.

CORN PRODUCTS REFG. CO. v. EDDY.
427.

Opinion of the Court.

The question of repugnancy to the commerce clause
may be treated (a) aside from federal legislation; and (b)
in view of the "Food and Drugs Act" of Congress, june
30, 1906, c. 3915, 34 Stat. 768.
Upon this question, in both aspects, the judgment under
review is clearly sustained by the decision of this court in
,Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, which is precisely in point.
That case raised a question whether a statute of Indiana
relating to concentrated commercial feeding stuffs for
animals (Acts 1907, c. 206), which required the packages,
when sold or offered for sale, to bear in a conspicuous
place a tag or label having plainly printed on it in the
English language (among other things) a guaranteed analysis stating the minimum of crude fat and crude protein,
determined by a prescribed method, and the ingredients
from which the concentrated commercial feeding stuff
was compounded, as applied to sales of complainant's
products in original packages by importing purchasers,
constituted an unwarranted interference with interstate
commerce, either independently of or in the light of the
Food and Drugs Act of Congress. The court finding
(p. 524) that the evident purpose of the Indiana statute
was to prevent fraud and imposition in the sale of food for
domestic animals; that its requirements were directed to
that end and were not unreasonable; and that it was not
aimed at interstate commerce, but without discrimination sought to promote fair dealing in the described
articles of food; held (p. 528) that the statute was a lawful
exercise of the police power of the State, including the
required disclosure of the ingredients contained in feeding stuffs offered for sale in that State and the provision
for their inspection and analysis. Upon the question
whether there was any conflict with the act of Congress,
after pointing out (p. 529) that the object of the latter
act was to prevent adulteration and misbranding by prohibiting the introduction into any State from another

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

State of articles of food or drugs adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of the act, and that included
in the definition of the term "food" were "all articles
used for food, drink, confectionery, or condiment by man
or other animals, whether simple, mixed, or compound";
and (p. 531) that in the enumeration of the acts constituting a violation of the statute Congress had not included
(as the Indiana statute did include) a failure to disclose
the ingredients of the article, save in specific instances
where morphine, opium, cocaine, or other substances
particularly mentioned were present; and after reciting
the provision of the federal act that an article "for the
purposes of this Act" shall be deemed misbranded if the
package or label bear any statement, design or device
regarding it or the ingredients or substances it contains,
which shall be false or misleading; the court proceeded
to say (p. 532):" But this does not cover the entire ground.
It is one thing to make a false or misleading statement
regarding the article or its ingredients, and it may be
quite another to give no information as to what the ingredients are. As is well known, products may be sold, and in
case of so-called proprietary articles frequently are sold,
under trade names which do not reveal the ingredients of
the composition and the proprietors refrain from revealing them. Moreover, in defining what shall be adulteration or misbranding for the purposes of the Federal act,
it is provided that mixtures or compounds known as
articles of food under their own distinctive names, not
taking or imitating the distinctive name of another article,
which do not contain 'any added poisonous or deleterious
ingredients' shall not be deemed to be adulterated or misbranded if the name be accompanied on the same label
or brand with a statement of the place of manufacture
(§8). Congress has thus limited the scope of its prohibitions. It has not included that at which the Indiana
statute ainis. Can it be said that Congress, nevertheless,

CORN PRODUCTS REFG. CO. v. EDDY.
427.

435

Opinion of the Court.

has denied to the State, with respect to the feeding stuffs
coming from another State and sold in the original packages, the power the State otherwise would have to prevent imposition upon the public by making a reasonable
and non-discriminatory provision for the disclosure of
ingredients, and for inspection and analysis? If there be
such denial it is not to be found in any express declaration
to that effect. Undoubtedly Congress, by virtue of its
paramount authority over interstate commerce, might
have said that such goods should be free from the incidental effect of a state law enacted for these purposes.
But it did not so declare. There is a proviso in the section defining misbranding for the purposes of the act that
'nothing in this Act shall be construed' as requiring manufacturers of proprietary foods which contain no unwholesome added ingredient to disclose their trade formulas
'except in so far as the provisions of this Act may require
to secure freedom from adulteration or misbranding' (§ 8).
We have already noted the limitations of the provisions
referred to. And it is clear that this proviso merely relates
to the interpretation of the requirements of the act, and
does not enlarge its purview or establish a rule as to matters which lie outside its prohibitions. is, then, a denial
to the State of the exercise of its power for the purposes
in question necessarily implied in the Federal statute?
For when the question is whether a Federal act overrides
a state law, the entire scheme of the statute must of course
be considered and that which needs must be implied is of
no less force than that which is expressed. If the purpose
of the act cannot otherwise-be accomplished-if its operation within its chosen field else must be frustrated and
its provisions be refused their natural effect-the state
law must yield to the regblation of Congress within the
sphere of its delegated power. [Citing cases.] But the
intent to supersede the exercise by the State of its police
power as to matters not covered by the Federal legislation

436 .

4QrOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

is not to be inferred from the mere fact that Congress has
seen fit to circumscribe its regulation and to occupy a
limited field. In other words, such intent is not to be impiea unless the act of Congress fairly interpreted is in
actual conflict with the law of the State. This principle
has had abundant illustration." And; after citing many
previous decisions of this court, and analyzing several
of them, the opinion proceeds (p. 539): "Applying these
established principles to the present case, no ground appears for denying validity to the statute of Indiana. That
State has determined that it is necessary in order to secure
proper protection from deception that purchasers of the
described feeding stuffs should be suitably informed of
what they axe buying and has made reasonable provision
for disclosure of ingredients by certificate and label, and
for inspection and analysis. The requirements, the enforcement of which the bill seeks to enjoin, are not in any
way in conflict with the provisions of the Federal act.
They may be sustained without impairing in the slightest
degree its operation and effect. There is no question
here of cohflicting standards, or of opposition of state to
Federal authority. It follows that the complainant's
bill in this aspect of the case was without equity."
An attempt is made to distinguish Savage v. Jones,
upon the ground that the Indiana statute there under
consideration covered a field of regulation which had not
been included in the federal statute, whereas, it is said,
the Kansas Food and Drugs Law is almost literally a reproduction of the federal law upon the same subject. It is
true that the. Kansas statute, mutatis mutandis, follows
quite closely the lines of the act of Congress, and that its
8th section, which defines the term "misbranded" is
almost a copy of the corresponding section of the federal
act; but in the following proviso at the close of the section
the words italicized have been inserted by the state legislature, they not appearing in the federal act: "And pro-

CORN PRODUCTS REFG. CO. v. EDDY.
427.

Opinion of the Court.

vided further, that nothing in this act shall be construed
as requiring or compelling proprietors or manufacturers
of proprietary foods, which contain no unwholesome ingredients, to disclose their trade formulas, except in so
far as the provisions of this act, or the rules and regulations
of the State Board of Health, may require to secure freedom
from adulteration or misbranding."
These italicized,
words make a very substantial differeime. Section 3 of
the Kansas act provides that "The State Board of Health
is authorized and directed to make and publish uniforr
rules and regulations, not in conflict with the laws of thib
state, for carrying out the provisions of this act;" and
under this authority Regulation 6 was adopted and published, which requires manufacturers of certain proprietary
foods, including syrups that are compounds;, mixtures, or
blends, to state definitely upon the principal label the
percentage of each ingredient. It is insisted that the
regulation goes beyond the authority conferred upon the
state board because it is inconsistent with the definition
of "misbranding" contained in the act, and therefore cannot be deemed to be a regulation required to secure freedom from misbranding. Upon this particular point the
opinion of the Kansas Supreme Court is silent; but the
decision of the ditrict court upon the demurrer sustained
the validity of the regulation as being within the authority of the board; the Supreme Court did not overrule this;
the question is one of state law; and we must assume that
the regulation, having been adopted by the board and in
effect sustained by the decision of the Supreme Court, is
within the authorization of the statute. This being so,
it must be treated as an enactment proceeding from the
legislative power of the State; and hence it stands upon
precisely the same basis as the requirement of the Indiana
statute (quoted in 225 U. S. 504, and referred to above)
that commercial feeding stuffs should bear a label showing among other things a guaranteed analysis stating the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

minimum percentage of crude fat and crude protein and
the ingredients from which the article was compounded.
It was because of the absence from the federal act of a
provision requiring the ingredients to be disclosed that
this court held that Congress had limited the scope of its
prohibitions and had not included that at which the
.Indiana statute aimed.
The Food and Drugs Act of Congress has not been
changed in any material respect from the form it bore
when Savage v. Jones arose. By Acts of August 23, 1912,
c, 352, 37 Stat. 416, and March 3, 1913, c. 117, 37 Stat.
732, § 8 has been amended, but not in any manner that
affects the present question.
The fact 'that the Kansas statute mutatis mukandis
follows quite closely the federal act, and that § 8 defines
the term "misbranded" almost in the very words of the
corresponding section of the act of Congress, with the significant difference in the final proviso to which we have
called. attention, is not dispositive of the question whether
Congress has covered the field to the exclusion of state
regulation. This is to be determined by what the act of
Congress omits, not by what it contains; and by considering whether, in words or by necessary implication, Congress has prohibited the States from making any regulation in respect of the omitted matter. Further argument
upon the question is foreclosed by the decision in Savage
v. Jones that an omission from the act of Congress of a
provision requiring feeding stuffs transported in interstate
commerce to give affirmative information as to the ingredients of the article amounted to a limitation by Congress of the scope of its prohibitions, and that, although
not including that at which the Indiana statute aimed,
Congress had not denied to the State, with respect to
feeding stuffs coming from another State and sold in
original packages, the power to prevent imposition upon
the public by ,making a reasonable apd non-discriminatory

CORN PRODUCTS REFG. CO. v. EDDY.
427.

Opinion of the Court.

provision for the disclosure of ingredients and for inspec.tion and analysis.
That decision is conclusive also upon this point: that
the proviso in § 8 of the federal act that "nothing in this
Act shall be construed as requiring or compelling proprietors or manufacturers of proprietary foods which contain no unwholesome added ingredient to disclose their
trade formulas, except in so far as the provisions of this
Act may require to secure freedom from adulteration or
misbranding,". merely relates to the interpretation of the
requirements of the federal act, and does not enlarge its
purview or establish a rule as to matters which lie outside
its prohibitions.
Savage v. Jones was decided after elaborate argument
and upon full consideration. We see no reason to reconsider the conclusion there reached or to deny to the case
its proper au-hority. Its doctrine was followed and applied
in Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 61-62; Hebe Co. v.
Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 304.
It is argued that the present case is controlled rather by
McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115, 130, and in effect
that this case must be taken as overruling Savage v. Jones.
The contention is unfounded. The authority of the earlier
decision was expressly recognized in the opinion of the
court in the later; the distinction being placed (pp. 131132) .upon the question whether the regulations of the
State concerning the same subject-matter were in conflict
with the acts of Congress. The Wisconsin statute was
held to be in conflict because it required that packages of
food stuffs received through the channels of interstate
commerce, bearing labels intended to be in compliance
with the act of Congress, while the goods were still unsold
and were in the possession of the importer for the purpose
of sale and being exposed and offered for sale by him, as a
condition of their legitimate sale within the State, should
bear the label required by the state law and noine other-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

in effect requiring the label that showed compliance with
the act of Congress to be removed from the package before
the first sale by the importer, and while the goods remained
still subject to federal inspection.
The judgment under review should be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. LAUGHLIN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No.' 200.

Argued January 30, 31, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

The Act of March 26, 1908, c. 102, 35 Stat. 48, providing for repayment in all cases where it shall appear to the satisfaction of the
Secretary of the Interior that excessive payments have been made
to the United States under the public land laws, gives the Secretary
exclusive jurisdiction to determine questions of fact; but when the
undisputed facts, shown to his satisfaction, call for repayment as a
matter of law, his adverse decision is reviewable by the courts and
may be reviewed by an action brought by the claimant under Jud.
Code, § 145, in the Court of Claims. P. 442.
Under the Northern Pacific land grant Act of July 2, 1864, c. 217,
13 Stat. 365, the filing of a map of general route, although followed
by a withdrawal order, did not take the odd sections out of the
public domain or exempt them from entry under the preemption
and homestead laws prior to the filing and acceptance of the map
of definite location. P. 444. Nelson v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co.,
188 U. S. 108.
The Act of 1864, supra, fixed no special price for odd-numbered sections within the limits of the Northern Pacific grant, and the right
of a qualified person to preempt such a section prior to the acceptance
of the railway's map of definite location at the minimum price of
$1.25 per acre (Rev. Stats., §§ 2357, 2259), was a substantial right
of which he could not be arbitrarily deprived by government officials. P. 446.
Revised Stats., § 2364, providing that the Commissioner of the General Land Office shall fix a price of not less than $1.25 per acre for

