PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS. v,.COMPARIA GENERAL. 425
422.

Syllabus.

preme Court of the State, besides sustaining that and other
findings of the commission, aptly points out that but for
the hasty and improper removal of the track the coinpany "would not be at the expense of replacing it."
When the track is restored the company will own it and
be entitled to make a reasonable charge for its use, just
as is the case with other property employed in the company's transportation service.
Applying the decision just announced in Chicago &
Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Ochs, ante, 416, we think the order
does not take property of the company for private use, or
for public use without compensation, in contravention of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

BOARD OF PUBLIC.UTILITY COMMISSIONERS v.
COMPAMIA GENERAL DE TABACOS DE FILIPINAS.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THP
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
N. 253.

Submitted March 18, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

Whether § 16 (e) of Philippine Act 2307 violated the Organic Act, e.
1369, 32 Stat. 691, by delegating to the Board of-Public Utility Commissioners power to prescribe the contents of reports required of
corporate common carriers, has become a moot question since this
case was brought to this court, due to an amendment of § 16 (e),
which itself prescribes in detail what the reports shall contain and
thereby supersedes the order here in question. The judgment is
therefore reversed, with directions to dismiss the cause without costs
to either party.
34 Phil. Rep. 136, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

426

(OCTOBER TERVl, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. 8.

Mr. Edward S. Bailey for appellant and plaintiff in error.
Mr. F. C. Fisher for appellee and defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion ol
the court.
By a judgment rendered March 8, 1916, the court beloiw
annulled an order of the Board of Public Utility Commissioners of the Philippine Islands requiring a corporate
common carrier to report annually various matters pertaining to its finances and operations, the ground of the
judgment being that § 16 (e) of Act 2307 of the local
legislature, under which the board acted, violated the
organic law of the Philippines, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691, in
that it confided to the board the determination of what
the reports should contain and therefore amounted to a
delegation of legislative power. 34 Phil. Rep. 136. The
board brought the judgment here for review, and the
carrier now suggests that through a change in the local
statute the question on which the judgment turned has
become merely a moot one.
After the case was brought here the legislature, by
Act 2694, so amended § 16 (e) as to cause the section itself
to prescribe in detail what such reports should contain
and thereby abrogated the provision on which the order
was based and which the court held invalid. That provision therefore is no longer in force, and it is to the new
provision that the board and carrier must give effect.
Even if the original provision was valid, the order made
under it became inoperative when the new provision was
substituted in its place. Whether the order was based on a
valid or an invalid statute consequently has become
merely a moot question.
In this situation we are not called upon to consider the
propriety of the judgment below, the proper course being,

CORN PRODUCTS REFG. Co. r. E1)DY.
125

Syllahus.

as is shown by many precedents, to reverse the judgment
and remand the cause with a direction that it be dismissed without costs to either party. United States v.
Schooner Peggy, 1 Cranch, 103; New Orleans Flour Inspectors v. Glover, 160 U. S. 170, and 161 U. S. 101; Dinsmore v.
Southern Express Co., 183 U. S. 115; United States v.
Hamburg-Amerikanische Packetfahrt-Actien Gesellschaft,
239 U. S. 466; Berry v. Davis, 242 U. S. 468.
Judgment reversed. Cause to be dismissed without costs to
either party.

CORN PRODUCTS REFINING COMPANY v. EDDY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 119. Argued January 14, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.
A state regulation respecting the labeling of syrup compounds, which
does not discriminate against the manufacturer or his product or
against syrups as a class, held, not objectionable under the equal protection clause. P. 431.
The right of a manufacturer to maintain secrecy as to his compounds
and processes is subject to the right of the State, in the exercise of its
.police power, to require that the nature of the product be fairly set
forth. P. 432. Held: That a state regulation, requiring manufacturers of proprietary compound syrups to state definitely in conspicuous letters on the principal label the percentage of each ingredient, is consistent with the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Id.
It is the effect of a regulation as put in force by the State that determines whether it directly burdens interstate commerce, and not its
characterization, pr its construction by the state court. Id.
The proviso in § 8 of the Federal Pure Food Act, that nothing in the
act shall be construed as requiring proprietors or manufacturers of
proprietary foods which contain no unwholesbme added ingredient

