OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Order.

249 U. S.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK v.
STATE OF NEW JERSEY AND PASSAIC VALLEY
SEWERAGE COMMISSIONERS.
IN EQUITY.
No. 3, Original.

Argued November 8, 11, 12, 1918.-Order entered
March 10, 1919.

Order opening case for additional and supplemental proofs, and appointing commissioner.

THIS cause came on to be heard at this Term and was
argued by counsel; and it appearing that the suit was begun by bill fged October 17, 1908, that answer was filed
January 4, 1909, and that the cause was put at issue by
replication filed November 8, 1909; that the taking of
testimony was begun on June 26, 1911, and closed on
June 27, 1913, more than five years before the final argument of the cause in this court; and the court deeming it
proper that additional and supplemental proofs should be
taken for the following purposes:
It is ordered that the defendants may proceed with all
convenient dispatch to take the testimony of not exceeding
three sanitary or engineering experts, deemed by them
best qualified, concerning the following subject-matters:
(1) Any practicable modification of the proposed
system of sewage disposal of the Passaic Valley Sewerage
Commissioners, either as to construction, arrangement,
or operation, and the nature and character of sanitary
or engineering appliances that may be added thereto or
introduced therein, in order to lesseni the alleged polluting
effect of the effluent upon the waters of New York Harbor.
(2) Any practicable plan of sewage disposal or treatment capable of being applied to the sewage of the City
of New York and the several Boroughs thereof in order

NEW YO)RK v,. NEW .JERSEY.
202.

Order.

to lessen the alleged polluting effect of said sewage upon
the waters of New York Harbor.
(3) Additional testimony (to the extent reasonably
practicable within the time herein limited) as to the present
degree o pollution of the waters of New York Harbor,
including those parts affected or to be affected by the proposed Passaic Valley Sewerage system and by the sewage'
of the City of New York; and the change, if any, in the
degree of such pollution since the time to which the testimony heretofore taken relates.
The taking of the above testimony by the defendants
as stated in paragraphs 1 and 2, including also any testimony which said defendants may choose to offer on the
subject-matter specified in paragraph 3, shall be concluded
on or before the fifteenth day of June next.
The complainant shall thereupon be authorized to take
the testimony of not exceeding three sanitary or engineering experts as specified in paragtaphs 1 and 2, .including
such proof as they may elect to offer on the subjectmatter covered by paragraph 3, the testimony relating
to these subjects to be concluded on or before the fifteenth
day of August next.
The defendants may thereupon, if they are so advised,
recall in rebuttal the sanitary or engineering experts who
may have been examined by them in accordance with
paragraphs 1 and 2, and may also introduce rebuttal evidence rolating to the subject-matter of paragraph 3,
all such testimony in rebuttal to be concluded on or before
the fifteenth day of September next.
James D. Maher, Esq., of the District of Columbia,
is hereby appointed a commissioner to take and return
the above-mentioned testimony, with the powers of a
master in chancery as provided in the rules of this court.
This cause is hereby restored to the docket for further.
-argument on a day to be fixed upon the coming in of the
said testimony.

