UNION TANK LINE CO. v. WRIGHT.
269.

Syllabus.

swers, with regard to the alleged standardizing of the
size of posters. In view of our recent decision we think
further argument unnecessary to show that the ordinance
must be upheld.
Judgment in No. 220 and decree in No. 2 affirmed.

UNION TANK LINE COMPANY v. WRIGHT, COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 170.

Argued January 22, 1919.-Decided March 24, 1919.

A State may tax the movables of a foreign corporation, which are regularly'and habitually em.ployed therein, although devoted to interstate
commerce. P. 282.
While the valuation must .e just, it need not be limited to the mere
worth of the articles taken separately, but may include as well the
intangible value due to the organic relation of the property in the
State to the whole system of which it is part. Id.
To nmect the difficulties of appraisement where the tangibles constitute
part of a going concern.operating in many States, and where absolute
accuracy is generally impossible, the court has sustained methods
producing results approximately correct, for example, the mileage
basis in the case of a telegraph company and the average amount
of property habitually brought inand c, rried out by a car company.
Id. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530;
American Refrigerator Tranmit Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70.
But if the plan pursued is arbitrary and the consequent valuation
grossly excessive, it must be condemned because of conflict with the
commerce clause, or the Fourteenth Amendment, or both. Id.
A New Jersey company owning many tank cars, rented by shippers,
was assessed for those running in and out of Georgia, without regard
to and much in excess of their real value, upon a track-mileage basis,
,
i. c., in an amount bearing the sam ratio to the value of all its cars
and other peiona! property as the ratio of the miles of railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

over which the cars were run in Georgia to the total miles over
which all were run, there and elsewhere. Held, that the rule adopted
had no necessary relation to the real value in Georgia, and that
the tax was void. P. 283. Pullnan's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, distinguished and limited.
What is said in an opinion upon a point not raised or properly involved
cannot control in a subsequent case where the very point is presented
for decision. P. 286.
143 Georgia, 765; 146 id., 489, reversed.

THE, case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Douglas Campbell for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Clifford Walker, Attorney General of the State of
Georgia, for defendant in error, submitted. Mr. Warren
G'rice and Mr. Mark Bolding were on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
This cause requires us to consider the power of a State
to lay and collect taxes upon instrumentalities of interstate commerce which move both within and without its
jurisdiction. Union Tank Line-plaintiff in error-an equipment
company incorporated in New Jersey which has never
carried on business or had an -office in Georgia, owns
twelve thousand tank cars suitable for transporting oil
over railroads and rents them to shippers at agreed rates,
based on size and capacity. The roads over which they
move also pay therefor stipulated compensation. Under
definite contract certain of these cars were furnished to
the Standard Oil Company of Kentucky and all of those
which came into Georgia were being operated by the Oil
Company under such agreement. They were not permanently within that State but passed "in and out."

UNION TANK LINE CO. v. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

March 16, 1914, the Tank Line made the following
tax return to the Comptroller General for 1913-

Name of company ................. Union Tank Line
Value of real estate owned by company in or out of Georgia ......... None
Number of miles of R. R. lines in
Georgia over which

.

.

cars are

run.......................
Total value of

.

.

cars and

6976.5

.

other personal property [in Ga. &
elsewhere] .....................

$10,518,333.16
Value franchise [in Georgia] ........ No franchise
Total number of miles R. R. lines
over which

.

.

cars are run

[in Ga. & elsewhere] ............ 251,999
Total value of property taxable in
Georgia ..................... . $47,310.00
Union Tank Line Company had an
average of 57 tank cars in Georgia
during 1913 which at a value of
$830 per car equals .............. 847X310.00
Defendant in error expressly admitted that the. average
number of cars in Georgia during 1913 was fifty-seven,
the value of each being $S830-total $47,310; that the
owner had paid into the state treasury as taxes the full
amount required on such valuation and during that year
had no other property in the State. Acting upon information contained in return above quoted, the Comptroller
General assessed the Tank Line's property for 1,913 at
$291,196, its franchise at $27,685; and demanded payment. In explanation of this action he wrote to 'it as
ollows:
"As to the return filed, you have furnished the data
desired, but have made an error in the application of same.
After giving the mileage for the Company everywhere

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

and for Georgia, you then go ahead and assign 57 tank
cars for this State and value them at $830 each, making
the total for Georgia $47,310. This is an incorrect method.
If you were to be allowed to merely assign so many cars
to the State for taxation there would be no need for the
mileage figures to be furnished. The valuation to be assigned to Georgia must'be in the same proportion to the
valuation for the entire company, as the mileagb in Georgia
Or to work
bears to the entire mileage everywhere. . .
it out by percentage instead of proportion: 6,976.5 the
Georgia mileage, is 2.76846 per cent. of 251,999, the'entire
mileage. Georgia is therefore entitled to 2.76846 per cent.
of the entire valuation. This per cent. of $10,518,333 is
$291,195.84, or the.same sum arrived at by proportion, if
A franchise
we call the 84 cents an even dollar.
value should also be returned. And whatever the valuation you place on the franchise for the entire country,
2.76846 per cent. of same must be assigned to Georgia.
Thus, if you should value your franchise at $1,000,000,
the franchise value to be assigned to Georgia would be
$27,685."
"The valuation for Georgia was determined by taking
2.76846 per cent. of the valuation you gave for the entire
company, exclusive of franchise. The 2.76846 per cent.
is the ratio the Georgia mileage bears to the entire mileage,
as explained in a'previous letter. The franchise value
was obtained by placing your franchise for the entire
country at an even million dollars and giving Georgia
2.76846 per cent. thereof."
Thereupon, plaintiff in error instituted this proceeding
in Fulton County Superior Court alleging invalidity of
the assessment, that to enforce the tax would violate the
Fourteenth Amendment, and asked appropriate relief.
The cause was tried upon pleadings and agreed statement
of facts. Among other things, the parties stipulated:
"On April 7, 1914, when the defendant entered an as-

UNION TANK LINE CO. v,. WRIGHT.
27&

Opinion of the Court.

sessment
his office of property and franchise of t1fe
plaintiff asinshown
hereinbefore, he had no other information for any of the years 1907 to 1914 inclusive than was
contained in the said return filed by the plaintiff on
March 16, 1914, and embraced in this statement and
which was refused by the defendant, and did not know
what cars defendant had had in Georgia during any of
said named years nor did he ascertain the value of such
cars, but his action was taken on such information hereinbefore shown; and that the assessment so entered by the
defendant in his office against the plaintiff's property
during said period for each of said years embraces the
valuation of about three, hundred cars in excess of what
the plaintiff actually had in the State of Georgia, during
said years of the approximate value of $250,000.00 each
year; and that the true value of a tank car.is about eight
hundred and thirty ($830.00) dollars per car.
"That for the year 1)14 the assessment entered against
plaintiff by defendant covered the value of at least
three
hundred and fifty cars in excess of the number of cars
the State of Georgia for the time
plaintiff actually had in,
said tax was assessed.
"That defendant in entering said assessment never,
undertook to ascertain the actual property. of plaintiff's,
located in the Statejof Georgia during the said years or to
assess its property at its real value for taxation, otherwise
than by simply ascertaining the percentage of its entire,
property showii by the ratio of the railroad traversed by
its equipment in Georgia and the railroad mileage traversed by its equipment everywhere as shown by its said
return filed on March 16, 1914."
The trial court adjudged the assessment good as to both
franchise and physical property. The Supreme Court
held no taxable franchise existed, but that the physical
property had been assessed as required by statutes not
in conflict with either state or Federal Constitution. 143

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Georgia, 765, 769, 771, 773; 146 Georgia, 489. It said:
"The case relates to two matters, namely: a tax assessment against tangible property of the company; and
second, a claim of right to assess a franchise tax. .
The effort was to tax property in this State, and in doing
so to apply the statute designed as a rule
to ascertain
the property so coming into the State and its proper
valuation." After quoting §§ 989, 990 and 1031, Civil
Code of Georgia, copied in the margin, 1 the opinion conCivil Code of Georgia.
See. 989. "Each non-resident person or company whose sleepingcars are run in this State shall be taxed as follows: Ascertain the whole
number of miles of rfilroad over which such sleeping-cars are run, and
ascertain the entire value of all sleeping-cars of such person or company, then tax such sleeping-cars at the regular tax rate imposed upon
the property of this State in the same proportion to the entire value of
°stch sleeping-cars that the length of lines in this State over which such
cars are run bears to the length of lines of all railroads over which such
sleeping-cars are ruu. The returns shall be made to the comptrollergeneral by the president, general agent, or person in control of such cars
inthis State. The comptroller-general shall frame such questions as
will elicit the information sought, and answers thereto shall be made
under oath. If the officers above referred to in the control of said
sleeping-cars shall fail or refuse to answer, under oath, the questions
so propounded, the comptroller-general shall obtain the information
from such sources as he may, and he shall assess a double tax on such
sleeping-cars. If the taxes herein provided for are not paid, the comptroller-general shall issue executions against the owners of such cars,
which may be levied by the sheriff of any county of this State upon the
sleeping-car or cars of the owner who has failed to pay the taxes."
Sec. 990. "Any person or persons, copartnership, 'company or corpoiation wherever organized or incorporated, whose principal business
is furnishing or leasing any kind of railroad cars except dining, buffet,
chair, parlor, palace, or sleeping-cars, or in whom the legal title in any
such cars is vested, but which are operated, or leased, or hired to be
operated on any railroads in this State, shall be deemed an equipment
company. Every such company shall be required to make returns to
the comptroller-general under the same laws of force in reference to
the rolling stock owned by the railroads making returns in this State,
and the assessment of taxes thereon shall be levied and the taxes col1

UNION TANK LINE CO. v. WRIGHT.
275.

Opinion of the Court.

tinues-" The several code sections embody the statutory
scheme for taxing cars of equipment companies whose cars
are handled over the railroads in this State. Owing to
the nature of the business, it is difficult to ascertain the
number of cars of equipment companies that come into
this State and designate the identity of each car or its
value. The purpose of the statute is to provide a reasonable method for determining the fact that cars come into
this State and the values thereof, to the end that the
equipment companies, allowing their cars to come into
this State may bear their just proportion of taxes leviable
in this State. The scheme of the statute is what is sometimes called the track-mileage basis of apportionment, or
what in a more general way is termed the unit rule. The
comptroller-general followed the statute. The unit rule
has been upheld by the Supreme Court of the United
States, in regard.to railroads, telegraph companies, and
sleeping-car companies. Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases,
115 U. S: 321; Western Union Telegraph Company v.
Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; Pullman's Palace Car Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18. And this principle of average has been approved in regard to refrigerator-cars.
American Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70;
Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Lynch, 177 U. S. 149.
It has even been held that the unit rule of valuation could
properly be applied to the valuation of property of express
companies within a certain State, though there was no
lected in the same manner as provided in the case of sleeping-cars in
section 989."
Sec. 1031. "Railroad companies operating railroads lying partly in
this State and partly in other States shall be taxed as to the rolling
stock thereof and other personal property appurtenant thereto, and
which is not permanently located in any of the States through which
.said railroads pass, on so much of the whole value of rolling stock and
personal property as is proportional to the length of the railroad in this
State, without regard to the location of the head office of such railroad companies."

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

physical connection with property beyond the State.
It seems to us, therefore, that the case falls within the
rule laid down by the Supreme Court of the United States,
as above mentioned, and that there are no such circumstances as to bring it within the ruling made in Fargov.
Hart, 193 U. S. 490."
A State may not tax property belonging to a foreign
corporation which has never come within its bordersto do so under any formula would violate the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. In so fax, however,
as movables are regularly and habitually used and employed therein, they may be taxed by the State according
to their fair value along with other property subject to
its jurisdiction, although devoted to interstate commerce.
While the valuation must be just it need not be limited
to mere worth of the articles considered separately but
may include as well "the intangible value due to what
we have called the organic relation of the property in the
State to the whole system." How to appraise them fairly
when the tangibles constitute part of a going concern
operating in many States often presents grave difficulties;.
and absolute accuracy is generally impossible. We have
accordingly sustained methods of appraisement producing
results approximately correct-for example, the mileage
basis in case of a telegraph company (Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts), and the average amount
of property habitually brought in and carried out by a
car company (American Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Hall).
But if the plan pfirsued is arbitrary and the consequent
valuation grossly excessive it must be condemned because
of conflict with the commerce clause or the Fourteenth
Amendment or both, Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; Marye v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 117; Pullman's Palace Car Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 26; Adams Express Co. v.
Ohio, 165 U. S. 194; s. c., 166 U. S. 185; American Rc-

UNION TANK LINE CO, r. WRIGHT.

275.

Opinion of the Court.

frigerator Transit Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70; Union Refrigerator Transit Co. V. Lynch, 177 U. S. 149; Fargo v.
Harti 193 U. S. 490; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota,
246 U.. S. 450, 453.
In the present case the Comptroller General made no
effort to assess according to real value or otherwise than
upon the ratio which miles of railroad in Georgia over
which the cars moved bore to total mileage so traversed
in all States. Real values-the essential aim-of property
within a State cannot be ascertained with even approximate accuracy by such process; the rule adopted has no
necessary relation thereto. During a year two or three
cars might pass over every mile of railroad in one State
while hundreds constantly employed in another moved
over lines of less total length. Fifty-seven was the average
number of cars within Georgia during 1913 and each had
a "true" value of $830. Thus the total there subject to
taxation amount6d to $47,310-the.ehlIenged assessment
specified $291,196.
We think plaintiff in error's property was appraised
according to an arbitrary method which produced results
wholly unreasonable and that to permit enforcement of
the proposed tax would deprive it of property without
due process of law and also unduly burden interstate
commerce.
Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, relied
on by defendant in error, contains the following passage
which seems to uphold the Georgia rule-" The mode
which the State of Pennsylvania adopted, to ascertain
the proportion of the company's property upon which it
should be taxed in that State, was by taking as a basis
of assessment such proportion of the capital stock of the
company as the number of miles over which it ran cars
within the State bore to the whole number of miles, in
that and other States. over which its cars were run. This
was a just and equitablh met.ho(l (f assessment; and, if

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

it were adopted by all the States through which these
cars ran, the company would be assessed upon the whole
value of its capital stock, and no more." But the point
therein spoken of was unnecessary to determination of the
cause; and so far as the quoted passage sanctions the
specified rule for ascertaining values as generally appropriate, just, unobjectionable and productive of conclusive results, it must be regarded as obiter dictum, and we
cannot now approve or follow it.
Reference to the original record upon wtucn that case
came here will aid in understanding the exact issues presented. Pennsylvania demanded taxes of the Pullman
Company, an Illinois corporation, for the years 1870 to
1880, upon such portion of its capital stock as total miles
of railroad in Pennsylvania over which its cars moved
bore to like total in all States. No statute prescribed the
method of valuation; it had been adopted by executive
officers. The Court of Common Pleas declared: "On the
facts defendant claims that no part of its capital stock
is invested in this State. The argument is that its cars
are personal property, and, as they are not permanently
located in this State, but pass into, through, and out of it,
this personal property has no taxable situs in Pennsylvania,
and could not be taxed specifically in any given locality;
and therefore, it is contended, as the tax on capital stock
is a tax on the property in which the capital is invested,
the latter cannot be taxed. . .
We hold, therefore,
that the proportion of the capital stock of the defendant
invested and used in Pennsylvania is taxable under these'
acts, and that the amount of the tax may be properly
ascertained by taking as a basis the proportion which the
number of miles operated by defendant in this State bears
to the whole number of miles operated by it, without
regard to the question where any particular car or cars
were used; . . . The defendant is liable to tax on
the proportion of its capital stock invested in this State,

UNION TANK LINE CO. v. WRIGHT.
275.

Opinion of the Court.

as represented by the coaches and cars owned and used by
it here.

.

.

Determining the amount of the tax

on the principle above stated, it is as follows: Tax for
years 1870 to 1880, inclusive, $16,321.89." The Supreme
Court affirmed this view, saying: "While the tax on the
capital stock of the company 'is a tax on its property and
assets,' yet the capital stock of a company and its property and assets are not identical. The coaches of the company are its property. They are operated within this
State. They are daily passing from one end of the State
to the other. They are used in performing the functions
for which the corporation was created. The fact that
they also are operated in other States cannot wholly
exempt them from taxation here. It reduces the value of
property in this State justly subject to taxation here.
This was recognized in the court below, and we think
the [proportion] preference was fixed according to a just
and equitable rule."
In 1870 the Pullman Company's capital stock amounted
to three million dollars, in 1880 it had grown to six million;
all cars actually owned by the company (leased ones not
included) during 1871, numbered 241, and in 1880, 472,
their total value being $4,334,000, and '$8,588,000 respectively; one hundred cars were operated within Pennsylvania during each of the eleven years; total miles of
track everywhere passed over by the company cars during
1880 amounted to 57,099, within Pennsylvania 5,127,
and these figures adequately represent the proportion for
other years: total tax held due for the eleven years
amounted to $16,321.89. While the record does not disclose the precise valuations upon which taxes were computed, enough. does appear to show that they were far
below (perhaps not one-third) the actual worth of a hundred cars.
The company demanded complete exemption upon the
ground that its cars were moving in interstate commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

and had no taxable situs in Pennsylvania. The appraisement was not challenged as excessive; if the property
was taxable in Pennsylvania the rule adlopted may have
been decidedly favorable to the owner and the assessment
a moderate one. Having failed to challenge amount of
the assessment, the company could not well complain of
the rule under which this was fixed. In such circumstances
reasonableness of the rule was not really in question and
what was said of it cannot control here where the very
point is presented for decision. Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 264, 399; McCormick Machine Co. v. Aultman, 169
,U. S. 606, 611. See also Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, supra.
In other opinions of this court cited below to support the
conclusion there reached we upheld the power of a State
to tax property actually within its jurisdiction upon a
fair valuation considered as part of a going concern-they
give no sanction to arbitrary and inflated valuations.
Taxes must follow realities, not mere deductions from
inadequate or irrelevant data.
In Fargov. Hart,supra, we condemned an assessment ostensibly proportioned to mileage where property without
the State and unnecessary to the Express Company's
actual business had been included; and we pointed out
that under no formula can a State tax things wholly
beyond its jurisdiction.
The same considerations which establish invalidity of
the assessment of plaintiff in error's property for 1913
apply to like ones made by the Comptroller General for
all other years in question.
Judgment of the court below must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUsTIcE DAYin view of the undisputed facts of
this case, concurs in the result.

UNION TANK'LINE CO. t,. WRIGHT.
275.

I rrNEY, BRANDEIS,

and

CLARKE, JJ.,

dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, with whom concurred MR. JUSand MR. JUSTICE CLARKE, dissenting.

TICE BRANDEIS

During the period in controversy the Union Tank Line,
plaintiff in error, a New Jersey corporation, was the owner
of many tank cars, aggregating in value more than
$10,000,000, and was engaged in the business of renting
them out to be employed in transporting oil and similar
fluids over railroads throughout the United States extending to more than 250,000 miles. In the course of its
business it made a contract with the Standard Oil Company of Kentucky to furnish to that corporation cars for
use in the transportation of oils and like fluids from depots
at Savannah, Georgia, and Jacksonville, Florida. The
oils were brought to those depots chiefly in vessels by sea,
and were shipped thence in the Tank Line cars to various
destinations within and without the State of Georgia;
plaintiff in error being compensated in part by rentals
paid by the Standard Oil Company, based on size and
capacity of cars, and in part by payments received from
the railroad companies over whose lines the cars were
run; those companies, in lieu of providing their own tank
cars, paying to plaintiff in error three-fourths of a cent
per mile per car for the car movements.
Under the provisions of the Georgia statutes (Civil
Code, §§ 989, 990, 1031), property taxes were imposed upon
-plaintiff in error by reason of the habitual use and employment of its rolling stock within that State, based
upon a valuation not limited to the value of the tank cars
as separate chattels, but considering their value as a part
of the entire system of cars owned and operated by plaintiff in error, and regarding these as a part of the equipnient of the railroads over which they ran. Thus, it
appearing from a return made by the Tank Line to the
Comptroller General for the year 1913 that the number
of miles of railroad lines in Georgia over which its cars
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
PITNEY, BRANDEIS,

and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting. 249 U. S.

were run was 6,976.5, and the total number of miles of
railroad lines over which its cars were run in Georgia
and elsewhere was 251,999, and that the total value of its
cars and other personal property in Georgia and elsewhere
was $10,518,333.16, the Comptroller General assigned
to the State of Georgia for taxation the same proportion
of the property value of the system of cars that the Georgia
rail mileage bore to the total mileage. This gave a valuation of $291,195.84, whereas plaintiff in error had returned that during the same year it had an average of
only 57 tank cars in Georgia, amounting, at a valuation
of $830 per car, to $47,310.
The Supreme Court of Georgia sustained the tax on
the authority of numerous decisions of this court, cited
for the purpose. 143 Georgia, 765; 146 Georgia, 489. This
court reverses the judgment, and holds the taxing law
unconstitutional, upon reasoning to which I am unable
to yield assent.
In my opinion the Georgia system of taxing movable
property of this character when habitually employed in
the State, and the decisiozi of the state Supreme Court
sustaining the particular taxes in question, are based
upon a correct view of the powers of the State under
the Federal Constitution, and are in entire harmony with
principles laid down in authoritative decisions of this
court which have remained unchallenged for more than a
quarter of a century. Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530, 552; Marye v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 117, 123; Pullman's Palace Car
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 22, 26, et seq.; Cleveland
&c., Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439, 445; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1, 14; Adams Express
Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 221; s. c. 166 U. S. 185; American
Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Hall, 174 U. S. 70, 75, et seq.;
Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Lynch, 177 U. S. 149,
152; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450,' 453.

UNION TANK LINE CO. v. WRIGHT.
275.

PInNEY,

BR'-D)Eis,

and CLARE, JJ., dissenting.

The case presents no question of taxing a foreign corporation with respect to personal property that never
has come within the borders of the State. According to
the agreed state of facts and the petition of the Union
Tank Line which is to be read with it, any and all cars of
the company were liable to be used indiscriminately, as
occasion required, in the transportation of oil within the
State of Georgia, and there is nothing to show how many
were so used during either of the taxing years in question.
Fifty-seven cars simply represents the average number
within the State at one and the same time within the year,
and is not representative of the number of cars used in the
State during the year. This court has declared that a
State may lay hold of the average habitual use of movable
railroad equipment as a basis of taxation (Marye v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 117, 123); but there is
nothing in the Constitution of the United States to confine the State to that particular method. It is but a
method of approximation. Nor is the State obliged to
ignore the special value that rolling stock has because of its
organic relation to, and its customary use in connection
with, the railroad tracks upon which it runs. Although
the equipment be held in separate ownership, it may be
regarded in fact as an appurtenance of the railroad and
valued in that relation. It is admitted that the revenue
derived by plaintiff in error from the use of its cars is in
part paid by the railroad companies and proportioned to
the mileage covered by the run of the cars.
The opinion of this court recognizes that plaintiff in
error, because its tank cars are regularly and habitually
used and employed in the State of Georgia, is taxable
according to their fair value along with other property
subject to the jurisdiction of the State, although they are
devoted to interstate commerce; that while the valuation
must be just it need not be limited to the mere value of
the cars considered separately, but may include also the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
PITNEY, BRA.NDEIS, and CLAItKE, .I.1., dissenting.

249 U. S.

special value attributable to their organic relation to the
entire system; that fair appraisal, in a case like this,
where the cars constitute part of a system operating in
many States, is a matter of serious difficulty, but that absolute accuracy usually is impossible and therefore is not
required by the Constitution; and it seems to be intimated that a valuation based upon the aggregate car
mileage within the State during the taxable year would be
permissible. But, even assuming that such a basis could
be adopted without in effect regulating interstate commerce by varying the burden of taxation in direct proportion to the volume of such commerce, it still is obvious
that a valuation according to aggregate car mileage would
virtually ignore the particular value due to the relation
of the cars to the rail system, would in effect be equivalent
to a valuation according to average use, and would be
open to the same objection, viz., that its ascertainment
would lie wholly within the breast of the taxpayer. For,
if the state authorities were required to keep a check either
upon the average use or the aggregate mileage covered
by the movements of rolling stock within the State, and
to supplement this with observations in other States in
order to arrive at the. due proportion, the cost of administration easily might consume the taiIt is because of difficulties such as these that so many of
the States have resorted to track mileage---:readily ascertained and little subject to change-as an equitable
method of ascertaining the proportionate value taxable
by a single State, out of the aggregate value of the movables of an equipment company that does business in
several States.
This method was very clearly sustained by this court
in Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S.
18, 26, a case decided in the year 1891, followed repeatedly,
and never quetioned in the least until now. The tax
laws of the State of Georgia, and doubtless of many other

UNION TANK LINE Co. r. WRIGHT.
275.

PITNEY, BRANDEIS,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

States, have been based upon that decision, and I regard
it as most unfortunate that at this late date its authority should be overthrown.
The Pullman Company was a corporation of the State
of Illinois, having its principal office in Chicago, and its
business was to furnish sleeping coaches and parlor and
dining cars to various railroad companies for use as a part
of the equipment of passenger trains running in interstate
commerce; the railroad companies collecting the usual
passenger fares and the Pullman Company separate
charges for seats and berths. The company was subjected by the State of Pennsylvania to a tax upon a part
of its capital stock bearing the same proportion to the
whole as the number of miles of railroad over *which its
cars were run in Pennsylvania bore to the whole number
of miles in that and other States over which they were run.
The Pullman Company objected to the taxation of any part
of its capital stock by the State of Pennsylvania by reason of its running its cars through that State in the course
-of their employment in interstate transportation of passengers; and it is obvious that unless the tax was sustainable as being in substance and'effect a tax ipon property
of the company no greater than that which the State
had a right to impose it- was invalid because amounting
in its effect to a burden upon interstate commerce. It
was from this point of view that-the court tested and
sustained the tax, as tht following excerpts from the
opinion will show. After declaring that the legislative
power of every State extends to all property within its
borders; that for purposes of taxation personal property
may be separated from its owner and the owner taxed
on account of it at the place where it is located, although
he is not a citizen or resident of the State which imposes it;
and that there is nothing in the Constitution or laws of
the United. States to prevent a State from taxing personal
property employed in interstate or foreign commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1919
PITNEY, BRANDEis,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting. 249 U. S.

like other personal property within its jurisdiction; the
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Gray, proceeded to say
(p. 25): "Much reliance is also placed by the plaintiff in
error upon the cases in which this court has decided that
citizens or corporations of one State cannot. be taxed
by another State for a license or privilege to carry on
interstate or foreign comnmerce within its limits. But in
each of those cases the tax was not upon the property
employed in the business, but upon the right to carry on
the business at all, and was therefore held to impose a
direct burden upon the commerce itself.
The
tax now in question is not a license tax or a privilege tax;
it is not a tax on business or occupation; it is not a tax
on, or because of, the transportation, or the right -of
transit, of persons or property through the State to other
States or countries.
The tax :n the capital of
the corporation, on account of its property. within the
State, is, in substance and effect, a tax on that prop. The cars of this company within the State of
erty. .
Pennsylvania are employed in interstate commerce; but
their being so employed does not exempt them from taxation by the State; and the State has not taxed them because of their being so employed, but because of their
being within its territory and jurisdiction. The cars were
continuously and permanently employed in going to and
[p. 26] The
fro upon certain routes of travel,
fact that, instead of stopping at the state boundary, they
cross that boundary in going out and coming back, cannot affect the power of the State. to levy a tax upon
them.
. The route over which the cars travel extending beyond the limits of the State, particular cars may not
remain within the State; but the company has at all times
substantially the same number of cars within the State,
and continuously and constantly uses there a portion of
its property; and it is distinctly found, as matter of fact,
that the company continuously, throughout the periods

UNION TANK LINE CO. v. WRIGHT.
275.

PrriTEY, BRANDEiS, and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

for which these taxes were levied, carried on business in
Pennsylvania, and had about one hundred cars within
the State.
"The mode which the State of Pennsylvania adopted, to
ascertain the proportion of the company's property upon
which it should be taxed in that State, was by taking as a
basis of assessment such proportion of the capital stock of
the company as the number of miles over which it ran cars
within the State bore to the whole number of miles, in that
and other States, over which its cars were run. This was a
just and equitable method of assessment; and, if it were
adopted by all the States through which these cars ran, the
company would be assessed upon the whole value of its
capital stock, and no more. [Italics mine.] The validity

of this mode of apportioning such a tax is sustained by
several decisions of this court," etc.
It was upon this decision, among others, that the Supreme Court of Georgia relied as authority for its judgment. I cannot agree that any part of what I have
quoted-least of all the italicized clause which relates to
the apportionment of the tax according to track mileagewas obiter dictum or unnecessary for the decision. It was
necessary-certainly so this court deemed it-that .the
disputed tax be vindicated as a property tax in order to
relieve it from the criticism that it was an unwarranted
interference with interstate commerce; and it could not
be sustained as a property tax unless the method of apportionment was fair and equitable. The authority of the
case cannot properly be overthrown by showing, even if
it could be shown, that the court might have reached the
same result upon some other ground than that which in
truth it adopted as the basis of its decision. And it seems
to me that a considered judgment of this court' upon a
constitutional question affecting the taxing powers of the
States, long acted upon as a guide to state legislation
upon this important and difficult matter, ought not tq be

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
PrrNEY, BR &ias,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

249 U. S.

set aside without more cogent reasons than any that are
here adduced. Certainly the fact that the established
rule of taxation may operate with hardship or even with
apparent injustice in a particular case is not sufficient to
condemn it.
The decision referred to, Pullman's Palace Car Co. v.
Pennsylvania,supra, has always been regarded as a leading
case, and cited with uniform approval in repeated decisions of this court: not only upon the point that property
employed in interstate commerce, and in the ordinary use
of it situate sometimes within and sometimes without a
State, is subject to state taxation without regard to the
place of the owner's domicile; but also and especially in
support of the proposition that the mileage basis of apportionment as between the different States may be resorted
to in order to determine what tax each State shall lay upon
rolling stock used upon interstate railroads, just as it often
is resorted to in apportioning the tax upon a railroad as
between different taxing districts in the same State.
The reasoning of the case upon the point now in controversy has never heretofore been regarded as obiter dictum. On the contrary, it was cited in support of the mileage basis of apportionment for the taxation of a railroad
in Pittsburgh, &c. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S.421, 431;
and, in Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 221,
to sustain a mileage apportionment with respect to interstate express companies, notwithstanding the absence of
physical unity, s. c., 166 U. S. 185. It was quoted from
extensively in American Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Hall,
174 U. S. 70, 75-76, as authority for the apportionment
of taxes upon rolling stock according to the track mileage
within and without the State; the very part of the opinion
now held to be dictum being included in the' quotation.
See also Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S.
1, 14, 21; Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Lynch, 177
U. S. 149, 152; Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky,

I*NION TANK LINE CO. r. WRIGHT.
275.

PITNEY, BRANDEIS,

and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

199 U. S. 194, 206; Galveston, Har'isburg & San Antonio
Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 225; Pullman Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 56, 63-64; Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co. v. Greene, 244 U. S. 522, 548; Cudahy Packing Co. v.
Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450, 453. In Fargo v. Hart, 193
U. S. 490, 499, the court recognized the authority of Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania as supporting the
acknowledged doctrine of organic unity and the reasonableness and constitutionality of the mileage proportion,
but found in the particular case an exception to the rule.
I can see nothing arbitrary or unreasonable in the general rule of mileage apportionment adopted by the State
of Georgia, upon the authority of these repeated decisions
of this court, for the taxation of railroad cars and otheri
equipment habitually operated on lines extending within
and without the State, and hence am convinced that the
statute is not repugnant to the Federal Constitution.
If, for any reason that does not appear, the rule operated
unfairly in this particular case, and imposed an unjust
and inequitable burden of taxation upon plaintiff in error,
it was incumbent upon plaintiff in error to show this by
calling for an arbitration upon the question of true value,
as permitted by the Georgia statutes (Civil Code, §§ 10451046, 1050-1054), or by some appropriate proceeding for
relief against the excessive part of the taxes. Having
failed to do this although properly notified, it cannot in
justice be heard to say that the valuation of its property,
made according to a statutory rule that in its general
application is just and reasonable, is in the particular
case so excessive as to amount to a deprivation of property without due process of law, or an undue burden upon
interstate commerce.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JusTicE CLARKE concur in this dissent.

