OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

assumed that the- local question of maternity, and consequent right to custody, which dominated and controlled
the whole issue could be transformed and made federal in
character by the assertion concerning the Immigration
Laws. And this becomes all the more cogent when the
absence of power on the part of the petitioner to champion
the enforcement of the Immigration Laws is borne in
mind.
Whether a case might arise where a court of the United
States could take jurisdiction of a petition for habeas
corpus upon averment of diversity of citizenship and
pecuniary interest, without the assertion of a federal right,
does not here arise (a) because the suit was brought
exclusively under the assumption that it was governed by
the law of the United States which requires a federal
question to give jurisdiction, and (b) because, in any
event, there is here no averment of jurisdictional amount.
It follows that the decree below must be and it is
Reversed and the case remanded with directions to dismiss
the writ of habeas corpus.

EX PARTE HUDGINGS, PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.
No. 27, Original.

Argued December 9, 1918.-Declded April 14, 1919.

The basis of the power of thfe federal courts to punish summarily for
contempt committed in their presence is to secure them from obstruction in the pcrformance of their judicial duties; and to justify
exertion of this power, the element of obstruction must clearly appear. P. 383.
]h'eause perjury is punishable as a criminal offense is no reason why
it may not also afford basis for puiishment as a contempt. P. 382.

EX PARTE HUDG1NGS.
378.

Opinion of the Court.

Perjury in facie curi, is not of itself punishable as contempt apart from
its obstructive tendency. P. 383.
Hence, a District Court has no power to adjudge a witness guilty of
contempt solely because in the court's opinion he is wilfully refusing
to testify truthfully, and to confine him until he shall purge himself
by giving testimony which the court deems truthful. P. 384. In such a case, held that the original jurisdiction of this court in habeas
corpus was properly invoked. Id.
Petitioner discharged.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jesse Fuller, Jr., for petitioner.
The Solicitor General for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
After hearing and leave granted on a rule to show cause,
this petition for habeas corpus seeking the discharge of the
petitioner from custody under a commitment for contempt
was fied. The grounds for discharge were, that the court
had exceeded its jurisdiction by punishing as a contempt
an act which it had no power to so punish, and that even
if the act punished was susceptible of being treated as a
contempt the action of the court was arbitrary, beyond
the limits of any discretion possessed, and violative of
due process of law under the Fifth Amendment. Prior
to submission and after return and the hearing which ensued an order admitting to bail was made.
The duty to consider the case arises from the permission to file and therefore prima facie implies that it is of
such a character as to be an exception to the rule of procedure, that other available sources of judicial power may
not be passed by for the purpose of obtaining relief by
resort to the original jurisdiction of this court. Ex parte

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Royal, 117 U. S. 254; Riggins v. United States, 199 U. S.
547; Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420, 428; Johnson v.
Hoy, 227 U. S. 245; Jones v. Perkins, 245 U. S. 390; Re
Mirzan, 119 U. S. 584; Re Huntington, 137 U. S. 63.
Whether, 'however, definitively the case is of such except:nal character must- depend upon an analysis of the
merits, which we.now proceed to make upon the petition,
the return, argument for the petitioner, suggestions by the
United States, a statement by the Judge, and a transcript
of the stenographer's notes showing what transpired in
the court below, made a part of the argument of the petitioner and in substance conceded by all parties to be the
record.
In a trial which was proceeding, June 11, 1918, in the
court below, presided over by the Judge of the District
of Vermont assigned to the Eastern District of New York,
the petitioner was recalled as a witness by the Government for the purpose of proving by his testimony the
handwriting of MacMillan and Van Amburgh. On being
shown the writings referrea to, in answer to questions by
the Government, he said that he believed, from having
often seen the writing of the persons named, that the
writings shown hhn were theirs, but that he could not so
state from having seen MacMillan and Van Amburgh
write because he could not recollect ever having seen them
do so. The court thereupon pointedly questioned the
witness on the subject of his recollection and, in view of
his persistency in declaring that he could not swear from
knowledge derived from a recollection of having seen MacMillan and Van Amburgh write or sign that the writings
were theirs, stated to Government counsel that because
of the evident unwillingness of the witness the widest
latitude would be allowed the Government in its examination. This was availed of and an inquiry followed
covering a wide field as to the previous association of the
witness with the parties in question, his employment in

EX PARTE HUDGINGS.
378.

Opinion of the Court.

the business in which they were engaged and other cir:
cumstances deemed to persuasively establish that his
connection with them had been such that his statement
that he could not remember having seen them write wv-s
untrue.
The inquiries, however, made no change in the state:.
ments of the witness, who persisted in saying: "I cannot
say that I can recall that I have ever seen him in the act
of writing. I would not say I have not, but I would not
say that I have." Finally the court interrupted the examination by saying:
"This witness is going to be committed for contempt
of court. The court is thoroughly satisfied, Mr. Witness,
that you are testifying falsely when you say that you cannot recall of ever seeing Mr. MacMillan write, and this
has happened several times during this trial with other
witnesses, especially with your wife.
"And it becomes the plain duty of the court to commit
you to jail, sir, for contempt, and before doing so, I think
it is the duty of the court to explain to you that the answer,
'I do not remember':of ever having seen him write,' is
just as false, is just as much contempt of court if you have
seen him write, as. it would be for you to say that you had
never seen him write, without using the expression, 'I
do not remember."'
In the same direction the court said:
"I am not going to allow you to obstruct the course of
justice here, and if this nation has delegated power enough
to this court and I am very sure it has, to deal with you in
the manner proposed, I am going to do it."
Before the discharge of the witness from the stand an
order for contempt against him was made and he was committed to the custody of the marshal. On the same day
he pleaded not guilty to an indictment for perjury which
the grand jury had just presented and obtained an
order for release on bail which was inoperative Nxecu.se

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

he continued to be held under the commitment for
contempt.
The record states that on July 8th, following, a nunc
pro tunc order of cormmnitment was spread upon the minutes in which the previous commitment was described
as having been made for misbehaviour of the petitioner
in the presence of the court when on the witness stand by
wilfully refusing "to answer certain questions truthfully"
concerning his having seen MacMillan and Van Amburgh write and sign. The new commitment directed
that it should continue in force until the petitioner had
purged himself of the contempt for which he was being
punished.
That the contumacious refusal of a witness to testify
may so directly obstruct a court in the performance of
its duty as to justify punishment for contempt is so well
settled as to need only statement. Despite some confusion
caused by certain ambiguous forms of expression used by
the court below in dealing with the subject, it is indisputable that the punishment for contempt was imposed
solely
because of the opinion of the court that the witness
was wilfully
refusing to testify truthfully, that is, was committing perjury.
Whether, then, power to punish for contempt exists
in every case where a court is of the opinion that a witness
is committing perjury, is the test we must here apply.
Because perjury is, a crime defined by law and one committing it may be tried and punished does not necessarily
establish that when committed in the presence of a court
it may not, when exceptional conditions so justify, be
the subject-matter of a punishment for contempt. For
an application of this doctrine to perjury, see Berkson v.
People, 154 Illinois, 81; In re Rosenberg, 90 Wisconsin,
5S I; Stockham v. French, 1 Bing. 365; and see In re SchuLmnoa, 177 Fed. Rep. 191; In re Steiner, 195 Fed. Rep. 299;
]I
Uhnr, 208 Fed. Rep. 461; United States v. Appel,

EX PAIrE HUDGINGS.
378.

383

Opinion of the Court.

211 Fed. Rep. 495. This being true, we must ascertain
what is the. essential ingredient in addition to the elements
constituting perjury under the general law which must
be found in perjury when committed in the presence of a
court to bring about the exceptional conditions justifying punishment under both.
Existing within the limits of and sanctioned by the Constitution, the power to punish for contempt comnmitted
in the presence of the court is not controlled by the limitations of the Constitution as to modes of accusation and
methods of trial generally safeguarding the rights of the
citizen. This, however, expresses no purpose to exempt
judicial authority from constitutional limitations, since
its great and only purpose is to secure judicial authority
from obstruction in the performance of its duties to the
end that means appropriate for the preservation and enforcement of the Constitution may be secured. Toldo
Newspaper Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 402; Marshall
v. Gordon, 243 U. S. 521.
An obstruction to the performance of judicial duty
resulting from an act done in the presence of the court is,
then, the characteristic upon which the power to punish
for contempt must rest. This being true, it follows that
the presence of that element must clearly be shown in
every case where the power to punish for contempt is
exerted-a principle which, applied to the subject in hand,
exacts that in order to punish perjury in the presence of
the court as & contempt there must be added to the essential elements of perjury under the general law the
further element of obstruction to the court in the performance of its duty. A.s illustrative of this, see United
States v. Appel, 211 Fed. Rep. 495. It is true that there
are decided cases which treat perjury, without any other
element, as adequate to sustain a punishment for contempt. But the mistake is, we think, evident, since it
either overlooks or misconceives the essential characteris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

tic of the obstructive tendency underlying the contempt
power, or mistakenly attributes a necessarily inherent obstructive effect to false swearing. If the conception were
true, it would follow that when a court entertained the
opinion that a witness was testifying untruthfully the
power would result to impose a punishment for contempt
with the object or purpose of exacting from the witness a
character of testimony which the court would deem to be
truthful; iud thus At would come to pass that a potentiality
of oppression and wrong would result and the freedom of
the citizen when called a a witness in a court would be
gravely imperiled.
Testing the power to make the commitment which is
under consideration in -this case by the principles thus
stated, we are of opinion that the commitment was void
for excess of power-a conclusion irresistibly following
from the fact that the punishment .was imposed for the
supposed perjury alone without reference to any circunstance or condition giving to it an obstructive effect.
Indeed, when the provision of the commitment directing
that the punishment should continue to be enforced until
the 'contempt, that is, the perjury, was purged, the impression necessarily arises that it was -assumed that the
'power existed to hold the witness in confinement under
the punishment until he consented to give a character of
testimony which in the opinion of the court would not be
perjured.
In view of the nature of the case, of the relation which
the question which it involves bears generally to the
power and duty of courts. in the performance of their
functions, of the dangerous effect on the liberty of the
citizen when called upon as a witness in a court which
might result if the erroneous doctrine upon which the
order under review was based were not promptly corrected,
we are of opinion that the case is an exception to the
general rules of procedure to which we'have at the outset

I)ELAWARE, L. & W. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 385
378.

Syllabus.

referred, and therefore that our duty exacts that we finally
dispose of the questions in the proceeding for habeas corpus which is before us. It is therefore
Ordered that the petitioner be discharged.
MR. JuSTiCE PITNEY dissents.

DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA & WESTERN RAIL-

ROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 158.

Argued March 26, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

When the Court of Claims fails to>stte what the contract was between
the claimant and the Government, this court cannot find it from
facts which do not establish a contract as a matter of law. P. 387.
Where a railroad undertook transportation of mail during a certain
period upon notice from the Post Office Department that the compensation had been fixed for thi period at certain rates but "subject
to future orders," and "unless otherwise ordered," held, in view of
these qualifying words, that the contract did not guarantee the railroad against any change of the rates during that period. Id.
Eastern R. R. Co. v..
United States, 129 U. S. 391.
A reservation of the right to change the rates for mail transportation
may be availed of by the United States through an act of Congress, even though the Postmaster General had no authority when
the contract was made to change the rates himself. P. 388.
The Act of March 2, 1907, directing the Postmaster General to readjtist
the compensation for the transportation of mail on certain railroad
routes carrying certain average weights of mail per day, did not require reweighing. Id.
51 Ct. Clms. 426, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

