OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.'

249 U. S.

BOARD OF PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSIONERS v.
MANILA ELECTRIC RAILROAD & LIGHT COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

N o. 230. Argued March 14, 1919.-Decided March 24, 1919.
A judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, which
denied the right of the Board of Public Utility Commissioners to
require a Manila street car company to give free transportation to
detectives wearing their badges concealed, and was based wholly
upon a construction of the company's franchise ordinance, held
not subject to review under Jud. Code, ยง 248, before the amendment
of September 6, 1916, (1) as clearly not involving the Constitution
or any statute, treaty, title or privilege of the United States, and
(2) because the value in controversy was not shown to exceed
$25,000.
Writ of error and appeal to review 30 Phil. Rep. 387, dismissed.

TH case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward S. Bailey for appellant and plaintiff in error.
Mr. Robert H. Neilson, with whom Mr. Paul D. Cravath
and Mr. Sherman Woodward were on the brief, for appellee
and defendant in error.

Memorandum opinion by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHIrE.
The Manila Electric Railroad & Light Company, the
appellee, operated in the City of Manila a street railway
and an electric light and power plant by virtue of a franchise conferred by an ordinance adopted in 1902 by the
City in the exercise of a power given it by the local legislative authority.

PUBLIC UTIL. COMMRS. v. MANILA ELEC. R. R. CO.263
262.

Opinion of the Court.

From the beginning, in giving effect to the provision of
the franchise ordinance requiring that "members of the
Police and Fire Departments of the City of Manila wearing official badges shall be entitled to ride free upon the
cars of the grantee," that requirement was treated by the
grantee as not embracing members of the detective branch
of the Police Department who did not publicly wear
official badges, although having such badges concealed
upon their persons in. such manner that they could be
exposed or inspected when desired.
In 1914 the Board of Public Utility Comiissioners,
deeming that members of the detective force not publicly
wearing their badges were entitled to ride free under the
provisions of the ordinance, after notice and hearing to
the Railroad on the subject, entered an order directing
that members of the detective force be allowed to ride
free under the circumstances stated. The Railroad,
challenging the validity of the order, refused to obey it
and, availing of the remedy provided by the local law, invoked the jurisdiction. of the Supreme Court. In that
court it disputed not only the correctness of the interpretation which had been given the ordinance by the
Utility Commissioners but charged that if such interpretation were enforced a violation would result of the rights
of the company in particulars stated guaranteed to it by
the Bill of Rights provided by Congress for the Philippine Islands. The court, passing as unnecessary to be
considered all the contentions made by the Railroad but
the single one concerning the duty of the company under
the franchise ordinance to furnish the free transportation
ordered, decided that under the text of that ordinance the
duty to furnish such transportation did not exist, and
therefore set aside the order of the Commissioners. That
body, both by error and appeal, brought the subject here
for consideration.
As the action of the court complained of was taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

before the Act of September 6, 1916, and the appellate
jurisdiction of this court was invoked before that act
went into effect, our power to review is governed by ยง 248
of the Judicial Code. By that section the authority to
review under the situation here disclosed can depend only
upon one or both of two considerations, (a) whether the
Constitution or any statute, treaty, title or privilege of the
United States is involved, or (b) whether the value in
controversy exceeds $25,000. Compahia General v. Alhambra Cigar Co., ante, 72.
We are of opinion that the mere construction
by the
court of the franchise ordinance, and its consequent
ruling that the duty did not rest on the Railroad Company
to give the free transportation which the orders of the
Commissioners had directed to be given affords no ground
for bringing the case within the first consideration, and
indeed, that the contention that it does is too unsubstantial, not to say frivolous, to afford any basis for jurisdiction;
and that the same conclusion is inevitably required as to
the second consideration as the record discloses no ground
whatever for concluding that the Utility Commissioners
had any such pecuniary interest as to bring the case within
the statute.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

