I)ELAWARE, L. & W. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 385
378.

Syllabus.

referred, and therefore that our duty exacts that we finally
dispose of the questions in the proceeding for habeas corpus which is before us. It is therefore
Ordered that the petitioner be discharged.
MR. JuSTiCE PITNEY dissents.

DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA & WESTERN RAIL-

ROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 158.

Argued March 26, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

When the Court of Claims fails to>stte what the contract was between
the claimant and the Government, this court cannot find it from
facts which do not establish a contract as a matter of law. P. 387.
Where a railroad undertook transportation of mail during a certain
period upon notice from the Post Office Department that the compensation had been fixed for thi period at certain rates but "subject
to future orders," and "unless otherwise ordered," held, in view of
these qualifying words, that the contract did not guarantee the railroad against any change of the rates during that period. Id.
Eastern R. R. Co. v..
United States, 129 U. S. 391.
A reservation of the right to change the rates for mail transportation
may be availed of by the United States through an act of Congress, even though the Postmaster General had no authority when
the contract was made to change the rates himself. P. 388.
The Act of March 2, 1907, directing the Postmaster General to readjtist
the compensation for the transportation of mail on certain railroad
routes carrying certain average weights of mail per day, did not require reweighing. Id.
51 Ct. Clms. 426, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Mr. F. CarterPope and Mr. Benjamin Carter for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson for the United
States.
MR. JUSMcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition to recover additional pay for the
carriage of the mails upon two routes from July 1, 1907,
to July 1, 1909-the claimant alleging and the United
States denying that it had contracts at fixed rates for
four years from July 1, 1905. The Court of Claims,
without stating in terms what the contracts were, set
forth the transactions that fixed the relations of the parties,
and rejected the claims. Under the statutes in force at
the time a maximum price per mile was fixed with reference to the average weights carried by the railroad.
This average was ascertained by weighing the mails for
thirty days once in four years. The quadrennial weighing
for the two routes concerned (from Hoboken to Buffalo
and from Hoboken to Denville, New Jersey,) took place
in the spring of 1905, upon a notice from the Post Office
Department that it was in order to obtain the data for
adjusting the pay from July 1, 1905, to June 30, 1909.
At about the same time the Post Office 'Department in
accordance with its practice sent to the Railroad a circular calling for a verified return of the distances on the
routes and for an acceptance, as it was called, more properly an offer, in the following form:
"In case the Post Office Department authorizes the
transportation of mails over this line, or any part of it,
the railroad company agrees to accept and perform the
service upon the conditions prescribed by law and the
regulations of the Department."
Before July 1, 1905. thse returns were executed, and on

DELAWARE, L. & W. R. R. CO. .. UNITED STATES. 387
385.

Opinion of the Court.

September 15 the Post Office Department notified the
Railroad that thecompensation for transporting the mails
on the Buffalo route "has been fixed from July 1, 1905, to
June 30, 1909," upon returns, at certain sums. "This
adjustment is subject to future orders and to fines and
deductions, and is based on a service of not less than six
round trips per week." The notice for the Denville
route, sent September 16, 1905, was similar except that
there was inserted after "has been fixed from July 1, 1905,
to June 30, 1909," the words "unless otherwise ordered."
There is nothing else bearing on the contracts except that
the Post Office Regulations contemplate contracts for and
not exceeding four years.
The rate thus fixed was paid for two years, but on
September 12, 1907, in pursuance of an Act of Congress of
March 2, 1907, c. 2513, 34 Stat. 1205, 1212, authorizing
the Postmaster General to readjust the compensation to be
paid after July 1 of that year, and to reduce the rate on
certain average weights, he ordered the reduction complained of. The service was continued on an understanding that it was without prejudice to the rights of the
Railroad in case it should be decided that it was entitled
to the old rate for four years from July 1, 1905. The
Court of Claims allowed the higher rate up to the time of
the notice of the reduction but disallowed the rest, and
the Railroad Company appealed.
It would be very difficult to say that the writings to
which we have referred constituted a contract on the
part of the Railroad to carry the mails for four years and
on the part of the Government to accept the service for
that time, even subject to the reservations that were
expressed on its side. If in view of the circumstances and
past practices a finding of such a contract was warranted
no such finding has been made and this Court cannot
make it. It is not a conclusion of law from the facts. But,
however this may be, the notice to the Railroad that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

compensation has been fixed at certain rates, in one case
"unless otherwise ordered" and in both "subject to future
orders" excludes the possibility of holding that a change
of rate could not be made so far as the written words were
concerned. So it was decided in Eastern R. R. Co. V.
United States, 129 U. S. 391, which answers the argument
that. the future orders referred to did not extend to a
change of rates. In that case, to be sure, the railroad made
no protest, but the decision was not placed upon that
ground alone but also upon the effect of the words "unless
otherwise ordered." It is said that the, Postmaster
General had no power to change the rates in 1905 when
the papers were signed. But that would not obliterate the
reservation and bind the United States to a different
contract from that which the documents expressed if they
expressed anything more than the rate at which the service
was rendered while it was rendered. The United States
was fve to adopt the reservation in its favor and it did
adopt it by the Act of 1907. As the case stands, the Railroad was free, as in the Eastern RailroadCase, to decline to
carry at the new rates, but could not insist upon the old
ones after notice that they had been revised.
It is argued that the Act of 1907 could not be put into
effect without a reweighing. The act directs the Postmaster General to readjust the compensation to be paid
from and after the first day of July, 1907, for the transportation of mail on certain routes "by making the following changes in the present rates per mile per annum
for the transportation of mail on such routes, and hereafter the rates on such routes shall be as follows: On
routes carrying their whole length an average weight of
mail per day of more than five thousand pounds and less
than forty-eight thousand pounds the rate shall be five
per centum less than the present rates on all weight
carried in excess of five thousand pounds"; with further
-reductions arrived at in like nmanner. The references to

STANDARD OIL CO. i,. GRAVES.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

38.5.

average weights are not enough to require reweighing.
They are an enumeration of the elements identifying and
determining the present rates that are to be reduced.
We see no reason to suppose that Congress intended to
require a special and expensive investigation at the cost
of the Government rather than to adopt the existing
practice and to order the reduction without reference to
the'exact time when the last thirty days' weighing occurred or should occur.

Judgment affirmed.

STANDARD OIL COMPANY v. GRAVES, AND
GRAVES AS COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 177.

Argued January 23, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

The construction of a state statute must be judged by its necessary
effect; the name is not conclusive. P. 394.
A law of the State of Washington requires that products of petroleum,
intended for use or consumption in the State, shall be inspected before being sold or offered for sale, and imposes fees for inspection by
which in 10 years over $335,000 was collected, of which only about
.$80,000 was disbursed for expenses, leaving a revenue of over
$255,000. Held, in respect of such products imported from another
State for sale in Washington, that the charge is excessive and an
unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce. Id.
94 Washington, 291, reversed.

THE case is stated in the. opinion.

Mr. Oscar Sutro, with whom Mr. E. S. Pillsbury,
Mr. F.

D.

Madison, Mr. H.

D. Pillsbury, Mr. Alfred

