McKINLEY v. UNITED S'TATES.
389.

Counsel for Parties.

commerce necessarily imposes a direct burden upon such
commerce, and is, therefore, violative of the commerce
clause of the Fedeyal Constitution. We may remark that
the conclusion at which we have arrived has been reached
by the supreme courtg of North Dakota and Ohio. Bartels
Northern Oil Co. v. Jacknuan, 29 N. Dak. 236; Castle v.
Mason, 91 Ohio St. 296.
It follows that the.juoigment of the Supreme Court of
Washingtoh must be

Reversed.

McKINLEY ET AL. v. UNITED BTATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA..
No. 417. Submitted March 3, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.
Congres, under the authority to raise and support armies, may make
riles and regulations to protect the health and welfare of the men
composing them against the evils of prostitution, and may leave the
details of such regulations to the Secretary of War.
Conviction sustained, for setting up a house of ill fame within five
miles of a military station, the distanpe desighated by the Secretary
of War,, under the Act of May 18, 1917, c. 15, ยง 13, 40 Stat. 76.
Affirmed

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. R. Douglas Feaginfor plaintiffs in error. Mr. Oliver
C. Hancock was on the brief.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Porter and Mr. W. C.
Herron for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTICE DAY.

Plaintiffs in error were indicted, convicted, and sentenced upon an indictment in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Georgia for
violation of a regulation of the Secretary of War made
under the authority of the Act of Congress of May 18,
1917, c. 15, ยง 13, 40 Stat. 76, 83. This statute provides:
"The Secretary of War is hereby authorized, empowered, and directed during the present war to do
everything by him deemed necessary to suppress and
prevent the keeping or setting up of houses of ill fame,
brothels, or bawdy houses within such distance as he
may deem needful of any military camp, station, fort,
post, cantonment, training, or mobilization place, and
any person, corporation, partnership, or association
receiving or permitting to be received for immoral purposes any person into any place, structure, or building
used for the purpose of lewdness, assignation; or prostitution within such distance of said places as may be
designated, or shall permit any such person to remain for
immoral purposes in any such place, structure, or building
as aforesaid, or who shall violate any order, rule, orregulation issued to carry out the object and purpose of
this section shall, unless otherwise punishable under the
Articles of War, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000, or imprisonment for not more than twelve months, or both."
Plaintiffs in error contend that Congress has no constitutional authority to pass this act. The indictment
charged that the plaintiffs in error did unlawfully Ikeep
and set up a house of ill fame within the distance designated by the Secretary of War', under the authority of
the act of Congress, to-wit, within five miles of a certain
military station of the United States.

COLUMBUS RY. & POWER CO. v. COLUMBUS.

399

Syllabus.

397.

That Congress has the authority to raise and support.
armies and to make rules and regulations for the protection of the health and welfare of those composing them, is
too well settled to require more than the statement of the
proposition. Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366.
Congress having adopted restrictions designed to guard
and promote the health and efficiency of the men compsing the army, in a matter so obvious as that embodied
in the statute under consideration, may leave details to the
regulation of the head of an executive department, and
punish those who violate the restrictions. This is also
well settled by the repeated decisions of this court. Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Union Bridge Co. v.
United States, 204 U. S. 364; United States v. Grimaud, 220
U. S. 506.
The judgment of the District Court is

Affined.

COLUMBUS RAILWAY, POWER & LIGHT COMPANY v. CITY OF COLUMBUS, OHIO, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 715.

Argued January 10, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

Constitutional questions not devoid of merit suffice as a basis for
jurisdiction in the District Court, however they, may be decided.

P. 406.
Ordinances passed by the City of Columbus under authority of certain

laws of Ohio and accepted by street railway companies, held contracts, binding the grantees to furnish street railway service for
twenty-five years, at specified rates, in return for the use of the
streets, and not permissive franchises which the grantees might
surrender when they ceased to be remunerative. P. 407.
If a party charge himself with an obligation possible to be performed, he

