RAND v. UNITED. STATES.

5W0-

,Counsel for Appellants.

RANT ET AL.; EXECUTORS OF RAND, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 213.

Argued March 10, 11, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

Revised Statutes, § 3226, providing that no suit shall be maintained
for recovery of illegal or erroneous taxes until appeal made to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue and decision had thereon, and'
fixing a period within which suit may be brought when his decision
is delayed more than six months, was made applicable by § 31 of
the War Revenue Act of June 13, 1898, 30 Stat. 448, 464, to inheritance taxes collected under that act. P7 507.
As applied to a claim for a refund of such inheritance taxes, this bar
of Rev. Stats., § 3226, and the bar of § 3228, which requires all
claims for the refunding of erroneous or illegal internal taxes to be
presented to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue within twe
years next after the cause of action accrued, were removed by the
Acts of June 27, 1902, c. 1160, § 3, 32 Stat. 406, and of July 27,
1912, c. 256, 37 Stat. 240, if the claimant complied with their requirements and presented his claim to, the Commissioner. Id.
the fact that a tax was voluntarily paid, without protest, is not an
impediment to a refund under the Act of July 27, 1912, supra.
United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S.1. P. 508.
The Act of July 27, 1912, supra, § 2, in providing that repayment
shall be made to "such claimants as have presented or shall hereafter present their claims," requires a positive and individual assertion of the claim, within the time limited; the claimant may not"
rely upon claims presented by others not manifestly his own or
clearly made on his behalf, nor excuse the presentation of his claim
upon the assumption that it would have been useless, judged by
results in other cases. Id.
52 Ct. Chs. 72, 285, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. T. Newcomb, with whom Mr. Frederick L. Fishbqck was on the briefs, for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Brown, with whom Mr.
Charles H. Weston was on the brief, for the United States.
MR.JusTIcE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case involves a consideration of the inheritance
tax law of June 13, 1898, generally called the War Revenue Act (30 Stat. 448, 464-5), and was brought in the
Court of Claims to recover the amount of a tax assessed
and collected under that law.
The Court of Claims dismissed the case on the grounds
(1) that appellant did not file any claim with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue; (2) that the tax was voluntarily paid. The decision is resisted by appellant and other
contentions are made against the tax.
Section 29 of the Act of 1898 provided that any person
or persons having in charge or trust, as administrators,
etc., any legacies or distributive shares arising from personal property, the amount of the property exceeding
$10,000 in actual value, passing, after the passage of the
act, from any persoin possessed of the property, either by
will or by the intestate laws of any State or Territory,
was made subject to a tax to be paid to the United States,
the amount of tax being dependent upon the degree of
relationship of the taker to the person who died possessed
of the property. And there was an increase of the tax
with an increase of the value of the property possessed in
excess of $25,000.
The facts found we give only in summary: 'June 6,
1900, Edmund Dwight died testate. His will was admitted to probate June 28, 1900. Elizabeth Cabot, his
sister, was named-executrix of the will. She accepted and
qualified, but died January 30, 1902, and Philip Cabot,
her son, was appointed administrator, with the will
annexed. He qualified. The will, so far as material,

RAND
503.

,,.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

provided as follows: "I give to the New England Trust
Company, a corporation duly chartered by the State of
Massachusetts, and located in the city of Boston, the
sum of one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars
($125,000), to be invested in the general trust, fund of
the company and held upon the following trusts: To pay
to Mrs. Jennie Lathrop Rand

....

the annual net

income thereof in semi-annual payments during her life."
October 1, 1900, the trust fund was deposited with the
New England Trust Company, the trustee designated in
the will, which accepted the trust. The fund was not
invested separately but as part of the general trust fund
of the company. Semi-annual payments of the accrued
net income were made to Mrs. Rand to January 1, 1915.
No other payments were made to her or for her benefit,
nor did she become entitled to any other or additional
payments on account of the trust.
September 27, 1900, Elizabeth Cabot made to the
United States Bureau of Internal Revenue a return of the
legacies in her charge as executrix and passing from
Dwight's estate to the persons named therein, in which
was included the legacy to Mrs. Rand, aged 63, stranger
to the decedent, of the clear value of $125,000, the taxable amount of which, after a particular exemption, she
stated to be $40,355.91, with $7.50 per hundred dollars
as the rate of taxation, and the amount of tax as $3,026.69,
and she reported the legacy as in trust with the New England Trust Company. It is not shown that the collector
of internal revenue or other officer made a demand for the
tak, but September 28, 1900, Elizabeth Cabot paid to
the proper collector the tax out of the funds and it has
since been retained by the United States. The sum was
advanced by Elizabeth Cabot, at the request of Mrs.
Rand and other legatees, pursuant to an agreement made
September 28, 1900, by which the taxes paid by Elizabeth
Cabot were to be refunded to her. and were repaid to her.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

The tax paid by her was determined to be the proper tax
by regulations of the Conmmissioner of Internal Revenue
on December 16, 1898. The regulations contained rules
and tables for the determination of the duty or tax to be
paid to the United States upon legacies or distributive
shares arising from personal property, imposed 'by the
Act of June 13, 1898.
The only assessment ever made under §§ 29 and 31 of
the Act. of 1898 and amendments upon the interest of
Mrs. Rand in the interest created in the trust fund under
Dwight's will was made in pursuance of the rules, tables
and instructions of the Commissioner and there was no
specific investigation by that officer of her expectancy of
life or as to the earning capacity of the trust fund otherwise
than by application of the tables. . The value of her interest was so determined to be $42,320.60, from which
was' deducted the inheritance tax of Massachusetts,
leaving a net balance of $40,355.91, upon which the tax
was assessed at the statutory rate of $7.50 per hundred
dollars. The computation was from the death of Dwight,
the decedent.
Under authority of the Act of Congress of July 27,
1912, c. 256, 37 Stat. 240, a"claim for the refund of the
sum paid, to-wit, $3,026.69, was filed with the Commissioner ofnnternal Revenue, December 24, 1913, by . T.
Newcomb, representing himself to be the attorney for
the New England Trust Company, trustee under the will
of Dwight. And on December 30, 1913, attorneys Lyon
& Lyon, of Washington, D. C., acting for and in behalf
of the administrator de bonis non of Edmund Dwight,
filed with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue a claim
for the refund of the tax. The grounds of both claims were
that the tax was illegally and erroneously assessed and
collected and contrary to the provisions of the Act of
1898 and amendments and that the same should be refunded by virtue of the Act of June 27, 1902, c. 1160, 32

RAND v. UNITED STATES.
503.

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 406, and the Act of July 27, 1912. The claims were
rejected by the acting commissioner March 28, 1914.
It is not showii that Mrs. Rand or any person acting for
her or in her behalf filed a claim with the Commissioner.
The court, as we have said, dismissed the claim without considering the validity of the assessment. The conclusion is contested by appellant in an elaborate brief
and defended by the Government, relying primarily upon
§ 3226, Rev. Stats., as the Court of Claims did. The
case presents, therefore, at the outset the question whether
the conditions of suit required by that section were satisfied, as qualified or relieved by the Acts of 1902 and 1912,.
hereafter referred to.
Section 3226 provides that no suit shall be maintained
for the recovery of a tax illegally or erroneously assessed
or collected, "until appeal shall have been duly made
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue; according to
the provisions of law in that regard, and the regulations
of the Secretary of the Treasury established in pursuance
thereof, and a decision of the Commissioner has been had
therein." If, however, it is provided, decision be delayed
more than six months from the date of the appeal, suit
may be brought within another period prescribed, which
it is not necessary to mention.
The section is clear enough and unless modified' or
changed precludes the present suit as it was applicable to
the tax involved (§ 31 of the Act of 1898). But § 3 of the
*Actof 1902 and § 2 of the Act of 1912, supra, are invoked
as removing the bar of § 3226. Section 3 of the Act of
1902 directs the Secretary of the Treasury to refund upon
proper application being made to the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue any tax that may have been collected
on contingent beneficial interests which shall not have
become vested prior to July 1, 1902. Section 2 of the Act
of July 27, 1912, has a like direction to the Secretary of
the Treasury to pay "such claimants as have presented

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

or shall hereafter so present their claims, and shall establish such erroneous or illegal assessment and collection, any sums paid by them." There is no question that
the cited sections remove the bar of §§ 3226 and 3228 if
appella t has met their requirements and presented to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue a claim for the refund
of the tax. Nor is the fact that the tax was voluntarily
paid, that is, without protest, an impediment to the application of the Act of 1912. United States v. Hvoslef,
237 U. S. 1.
It will be observed that the repayment is to be made to
"such claimants as have presented or shall hereafter so
present their claims." Has the appellant satisfied these
requirements? Two claims were presented, one by the
attorney of the Trust Company and one by attorneys
acting for and in behalf of the administrator de bonis non
of the estate of Edmund Dwight. Both claims were disallowed because, to quote the Commissioner's letter, the
"tax was paid upon the absolutely vested interest of a
stranger amounting to more than $25,000 and taxed at
the legal rate of $7.50 per $100, and accordingly, under
the decision of the Supreme Court in the Knowlton and
Fidelity Trust cases, all this tax was legally due."
The first demand, it is said, was presented by the testamentary trustee, then holding trust funds to the use of
the claimant and authorized and required to protect her
interests under and in connection with the trust fund.
The other claim was filed by the personal representative
of the decedent, successor to the executrix who had actually made the payment, although such payment was at
the cost of" Mrs. Rand.. Anditis urged that "the officers
of the Government were not misled at any time; there was
no question as to the identity of the payment sought to
be recovered or that of the person to whose benefit recovery would accrue." The demands, therefore, it is
the further conteution, satisfied the statute and should

RAND v. UNITED STATES..
WO3.

Opinion of the Court.

be ascribed to Mrs. Rand, and that the statute being
remedial, its remedy is to be promoted by a liberal construction, not impeded by a strict and technical one; and
there are adduced statutes that have been liberally construed. 49 Ct. Chns. 699; 51 Ct. Clms. 408.
The inutility of another demand is emphasized, either
for information to the department or for the assertion of
her claim. She knew, it is said, the precise facts of the
demands that had been made and she knew, besides, that
claims of the class to which hers belonged had been uniformly rejected and that another claim in her own name
would have been no less a "useless ceremony" than that
which was declared in one of the cited cases. And she
insists that such ceremony finds exemption in the case of
Weaver v. Ewers, 195 Fed. Rep. 247 (C. C. A.). The
case is not similar to that at bar. The tax there involved
was paid under protest and there had been an application
in writing by the payer of it for a refund of the amount.
The application was held to have satisfied §3226 and that
there was no necessity for another after the tax was paid.
The case at bar does not present the same situation. Its
tax was paid without protest and appellant seeks to
avail herself of the Act of 1912-not by performing its
2ondition, but by asserting an exemption from performance because of its supposed inutility. The Government
besides contests the. sufficieiicy and sincerity of her excuse
amnd points out that not only does the record fail to show
that the presented claims were made in her behalf but
that one of the claims was made eight days and the other
two days before the time within which claims could have
been made and that -the decisions rejecting them were
several months afterwards, and she could not therefore
have been influenced by the rejection. If it be replied
that she relied on.the rulings upon claims of the class to
which hers belonged, the query occurs, Why did not the
trustee of the fund and the representative of the estate

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

rely on those rulings? Their relation to the taxes, whatever it Was, was not as intimate as hers and hers would
Seem to have called for more solicitude and a demand by
her as necessary as suit by her. It seems, therefore, that
this suit is a postfact resolution and an experiment with
the situation after the indulgent period of 'the statute.
The Act of 1912 cannot be made so compliant. It had
its purpose and it is not satisfied by representative or
negative action; it requires a positive and individual assertion of claim. The condition was easy of performance,
its grant, a concession, and there is no room for the plea
to enlarge it beyond its words. It is direct and clear and
liberal enough of itself. It says to the taxpayer: Make a
claim for the tax you have paid, show its illegality, and
it will be repaid to you. We cannot, relax its requirements--certainly not on the assumption that they might
have been useless if complied with.
We see no reason for granting the motion for further
findings nor the motion for certiorari, and both are denied.
Judgment affrmed.

PERLEY ET AL. v. STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO TE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 251.

Submitted March-19, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

To protect the watersheds held by cities for supplying water to their
inhabitants from danger by fire is a governmental purpose, in the
execution of which it is not arbitrary for a State, where there is
reasonable apprehension of the danger, to require the owners of
timber, upon cutting or removing it from land near to such watersheds (in'this case within 400 feet), to remove or cause to be burned
under proper supervision, the tops, etc., not desired to be taken for
commercial or other purposes. P. 513.

