DEBS

'.

UNITED STATES.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

DEBS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 714. Argued Jadaary 27, 28, 1919.-Decided March 10, 1919.
The delivery of a speech in such words and such circumstances that
the probable effect will be to prevent recruiting, and with that intent, is punishable under the Espionage Act of June 15, 1917, c.
30, § 3, 40 Stat. 217, as amended by the Act of May 16, 1918, c.
75, § 1, 40 Stat. 553. P. 212.
Such a speech is not protected because of the fact that the purpose to
oppose the War and obstruct recruiting, and the expressions used in
that regard, were but incidental-parts of a general propaganda of socialism and expressions of a general and conscientious belief. P. 215.
In a prosecution for obstructing and attempting to obstruct recruiting, by a speech in which defendant expressed sympathy with others,
imprisoned for similar offenses, the grounds for whose convictions
he purported to understand, held, that the records in the other cases
were admissible as tending to explain the subject and true import
of defendant's remarks, and his intent. Id.
In such prosecution, held, that a document,--a so-called "Anti-War
Proclamation and Programi,"--expressing and advocating opposition
to the War, was admissible against the defendant as evidence of his
intent, in connection with other evidence that, an hour before his
speech, he expressed his approval of such platform. Id.
Senble, that persons designated by the Draft Act of May 18, 1917,
registered and enrolled under it and thus subjcct to be caled into
active service, are part of the military forces of the United States
within the meaning of § 3 of the Espionage Act. P. 216.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Seymour Stedman, with whom Mr. Wiliam, A.
Cunnea, Mr. Joseph W. Shartz, Mr. Morris H. Wolf and

Mr. IsaacEdward Ferguson were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Mr. John Lord O'Brian, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Alfred Bellman, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the briefs, for
the United States.
Mr. Gilbert E. Roe, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an indictment under the Espionage Act of June
15, 1917, c. 30, § 3, 40 Stat. 217, 219, as amended by the
Act of May 16, 1918, c. 75, § 1, 40 Stat. 553. It has been
cut down to two counts, originally the third and fourth.
The former of these alleges that on or about June 16, 1918,
at Canton, Ohio, the defendant caused and incited and
attempted to cause and incite insubordination, disloyalty,
mutiny and refusal of duty in the military and naval
forces of the United States and with intent so to do delivered, to an assembly of people, a public speech, set
forth. The fourth count alleges that he obstructed and
attempted to obstruct the recruiting and enlistment
service of the United States and to that end and with that
intent delivered the same speech, again set forth. There
was a demurrer to the indictment on the ground that the
statute is unconstitutional as interfering with free speech,
contrary to the First Amendment, and to the several
counts as insufficiently stating the supposed offence. This
was overruled, subject to exception. There were other
exceptions to the admission of evidence with which we
shall deal. The defendant was found guilty and was
sentenced to ten years' imprisonment on each of the two
counts, the punishment to run concurrently on both.
The main theme of the speech was socialism, its growth,
and a prophecy of its ultimate success. With that we have
nothing to do, but if a part or the manifest intent of the

DEBS v. UNITED STATES.
211.

Opinion of the Court.

more general utterances was to encourage those present
to obstruct the recruiting service and if in passages such
encouragement was directly given, the immunity of the
general theme may not be enough to protect the speech.
The speaker began by saying that he had just returned
from a visit to the workhouse in the neighborhood where
three of their most loyal comrades were paying the penalty for their devotion to the working class-these being
Wagenknecht, Baker and Ruthenberg, who had been
convicted of aiding and abetting another in failing to
register for the draft. Ruthenberg v. United States, 245
U. S. 480. He said that he had to be prudent and might
not be able to say al] that he thought, thus intimating
to his hearers that they might infer that he meant more,
but he did say that those persons were paying the penalty
for standing erect and for seeking to pave the way to
better conditions for all mankind. Later he added further
eulogies and said that he was proud of them. He then
expressed opposition to Prussian militarism in a way that
naturally might have been thought to be intended to include the mode of proceeding in the United States.
After considerable discourse that it is unnecessary to
follow, he took up the case of Kate Richards O'Hare, convicted of obstructing the enlistment service, praised her
for her loyalty to socialism and otherwise, and said that
she was convicted on false testimony, under a ruling that
would seem incredible tfo 1"" if he had not had some cxperience with a Federal Court. We mention this passage
simply for its connection with evidence put in at the trial.
The defendant spoke of other cases, and then, after dealing
with Russia, said that the master class has always declared the war and the subject class has always fought the
battles-that the subject class has hid nothing to gain
and all to lose, including their lives; that the working
class, who furnish the corpses, have never yet had a voice
in declaring war and have never yet had a voice in declar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

ing peace. "You have your lives to lose; you certainly
ought to have the right to declare war if you consider a
war necessary." The defendant next mentioned Rose
Pastor Stokes, convicted of attempting to cause insubordination and refusal of. duty in the military forces of the
United States and obstructing the recruiting service. He
said that she went out to. render her service to the cause
in this day of crises, and they sent her to the penitentiary
for ten years; that she had said no more than the speaker
had said that afternoon; that if she was guilty so was he,
and that he would not be cowardly enough to plead his
innocence; but that her message that opened the eyes of
the people must be suppressed, and so, after a mock trial
before a packed jury and a corporation tool on the bench,
she was sent to the penitentiary for ten years.
There followed personal experiences and illustrations of
the growth of socialism, a glorification of minorities, and a
prophecy of the success of the international socialist
crusade, with the interjection that "you need to know
that you are fit for something better than slavery and
cannon fodder." The rest of the discourse had only the
.indirect though not necessarily ineffective bearing on the
offences alleged that is to be found in the usual contrasts
between capitalists and laboring men, sneers at the advice
to cultivate war gardens, attribution to plutocrats of the
high price of coal, &c., with the implication running
through it all that the working men are not concerned in
the war, and a final exhortation "Don't worry about the
charge of treason to your masters; but be concerned about
the treason that involves yourselves." The defendant addressed the jury himself, and while contending that his
speech did not warrant the charges said 'I have been accused of obstructing the war. I admit it. Gentlemen,
I abhor war. I would oppose the war if I stood alone."
The statement was not necessary to warrant the jury in
finding that one purpose of the speech, whether incidental

DEBS v. UNITED STATES.
211.

Opinion of the Court.

or not does not matter, was to oppose not only war in
general but this war, and that the opposition was so expressed that its natural and intended effect would be to
obstruct recruiting. If that was intended and if, in all the
circumstances, that would'be its probable effect, it would
not be protected by reason of its being part of a general
program and expressions of a general and conscientious
belief.
The chief defences upon which the defendant seemed
willing to rely were the denial that we have dealt with and
that based upon the First Amendment to the Constitution, disposed of in Schenek v. United States, ante, 47. His
counsel questioned the sufficiency of the indictment. It
is sufficient in form. Frohwerk v. United States, ante, 204.
The most important question that remains is raised by the
admission in evidence of the record of the conviction of
Ruthenberg, Wagenknecht and Baker, Rose Paster Stokes,
and Kate Richards O'Hare. The defendant purported
to understand the grounds on which these persons were
imprisoned and it was proper to show what those grounds
were in order to show what he was talking about, to explain the true import of his expression of sympathy and
to throw light on the intent of the address, so far as the
present matter is concerned.
There was introduced also an "Anti-war Proclamation
and Prograni" adopted at St. Louis in April, 1917, coupled
with'testimony that about an hour before his speech the
defendant had stated that he approved of that platform
in spirit and in substance. The defendant referred to it
in his address to the jury, seemingly with satisfaction and
willingness that it should be considered in evidence. But
his couzsel objected and has argued against its admissibility, at some length. This document contained the usual
suggestion that capitalism was the cause of the war and
that our entrance into it" was instigated by the predatory
capitalists in the United States." :JIt alleged that the war

OCTOBER TERM, ,1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

of the United States against Germany could not "be
justified even on the plea that it is a war in defence of
American rights or American 'honor.'" It said "We
brand the declaration of war by our Government as a
crime against the people of the United States and against
the nations of the world. In all modem history there has
been no war mbre unjustifiable than the war in which we
are about to engage." Its first recommendation was,
"continuous, active, and public opposition to the war,
through demonstrations, mass petitions, and all other
means within our power." Evidence that the defendant
accepted this view and this declaration of his duties at
the tinfe that he made his speech is evidence that if in
that speech he used words tending to obstruct the recruiting service he meant that they should have that effect.
,The principle is too well established and too manifestly
good sense to need citation of the books. We should add
that the jury were most carefully instructed that they
could not find the defendant guilty for advocacy of any
of his opinions unless the words used had as their natural
tendency and reasonably probable effect to obstruct the
recruiting service, &c., and unless the defendant had the
specific intent to do so in his mind.
Without going into further particulars we are of opinion
that the verdict on the fourth count, for obstructing and
attempting to obstruct the recruiting servioe of the United
States, must be sustained. Therefore it is less important
to consider whether that upon the third count, for causing
and attempting to cause insubordination, &c., in the military and naval forces, is equally impregnable. The jury
were instructed that for the purposes of the statute the
persons designated by the Act of May 18, 1917, registered
and enrolled under it, and thus subject to be called into
the active service, were a part of the military forces of the
United States. The Government presents a strong argument from the history of the statutes that the instruction

L

BALT. & OH]IO R. R. CO. v. LEACH.
211.

Opinion of the Court.

was correct and in accordance with established legislative
usage. We see no sufficient reason for differing from the
conclusion but think it unnecessary to discuss the question in detail.
Judgment affirmed.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY ET
AL. v. LEACH.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 132. Argued January 15, 16, 1919.-Decided March 10, 1919.

A stipulation in an interstate bill of lading conditioning the shipper's
right to recover for loss or damage to live stock upon delivery cf a
verified claim in writing to a designated agent of the carrier within
five days from the removal of the stock from the cars, held valid;
and not waived; and not substituted by oral notice of the facts to
the connecting carrier's agent. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern
Ry. Co. v. Starbird,243 U. S. 592.
173 Kentucky, 452, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William W. Crawford, with whom Mr. Alex. P.
Humphrey, Mr. Edward P. Humphrey, Mr. Charles G.
Middleton and Mr. Churchill Humphrey were on the briefs,
for petitioners.
Mr. Frank W. Hackei, with whom Mr. B. M. Lee and
Mr. John S. Blair were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE McRumyi.OLDs

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Respondent Leach sued the petitioners for damages
sustained en route by cattle delivered at East St. Loui.

