NORTH PAC.
115.

,

S. CO. v. HALL BROS. CO.

119

Syllabus.

If the custody of the ship by the officer of the court was
inconsistent with the purposes of the Executive, acting
through the Shipping Board, this was not a matter of
which petitioner could take advantage. The application
of the Board through. its counsel for an order permitting
the vessel to be put at the service of the Government
for war purposes while still remaining in the custody
of the marshal for the purposes of the court's jurisdiction,
consented to by the only other parties who had a standing
in court, was a sufficient warrant for the order made.
Order to show cause discharged and petition dismissed.

NORTH PACIFIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. HALL
BROTHERS MARINE RAILWAY & SHIPBUILDING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 53. Argued November 18, 19, 1918.-Decided March 3, 1919.
A contract for maritime service is within the admiralty jurisdiction,
. although not to be executed upon navigable waters. P. 125.
The place of performance-i. e., whether upon navigable waters or
elsewhere-is but an evidentiary circumstance, to be considered in
determining whether the contract is by nature maritime. Id.
A materialman furnishing supplies or repairs may proceed against the
ship in rem, or against the-master or owner in personam. 12th
Admiralty Rule. P. 126.
While a contract for building a ship or supplying materials for her construction is not maritime, a contract for services, materials, and use
of facilities, for the repair of a vessel already launched and devoted
to maritime use, is a maritime contract; and in this respect it is immaterial whether the repairs are made while she is afloat, in dry
dock or hauled out upon the land. P. 126. The Robert W. Parsons,
-191 U. S. 17, limited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for Appellant.

249 U. S.

rhe fact that the repairs are made under superintendence of the shipowner does not destroy the maritime nature of such a contract.
P. 129.
For the purpose of repairing a vessel for a voyage, the owner of a shipyard, marine railway and machine shops, agreed to furnish materials
and men to work under supervision of the shipowner, and to tow
the vessel in and haul her out upon the land next the shops, as required in the repairs, by means of the railway, stated prices being
exacted for labor, use of tug and scow, hauling out' use of railway,
materials, etc. Held, an entire marine contract, for the repair of
the vessel, not involving a lease, or. agreement in the nature of a
lease, of the railway and machine shops, the use of these being but
incidental. P. 128.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. Frank W.
Aitken, Mr. H. W. Glensor and Mr. Ernest Clewe were on
the brief, for appellant:
The contract involved in this case did not call for the
performance by libelant of any service on or for a ship,
either on water or land, but merely for the supply of a
marine railway shipyard and equipment. Appellant did
not bargain for making repairs or for the results of the
use of the equipment, labor and materials supplied by
libelant, but for the use thereof by itself. The' testimony
of the parties forecloses any other construction. Such q
contract does not relate to "navigation, business or commerce of the sea."
The subject-matter of a contract is the test for determining whether or not ~admiralty has jurisdiction. Subjectmatter must not be confused with the object of a contract,
Leland v. Ship Medora, 15 Fed. Cas. No. 8237; The Paola
R, 32 Fed. Rep.- 174; De Lovio v. Boit, 7 Fed. Cas. No.
3776; Insurance Co. v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1, 26; The Eclipse,
135 U. S. 599, *608; Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek,
234 U. S. 52; nor must the old single test of location be
entirely disregarded, The Robert W. Parsons, 191 U S. 17;

NORTH PAC. S. S. CO. v. HALL BROS. CO.
119.

121

Argument for Appellant.

Ransom v. Mayo, Fed. Cas. Nos. 11571, 11571A; Bradley
v. Bolles, Fed. Cas. No..1773; Pritchardv. Lady Horatia,
Fed. Cas. No. 11438; Boon v . The Hornet, Fed. Cas. No.
1640. Wortman v. Griffith, Fed. Cas. No. 18057, and
The Vidal Sala, 12 Fed. Rep. 207, distinguished.
Under the subject-matter test as so limited, admiralty
has no jurisdiction of the present case for two reasons,
first, because the repairs to the vessel were made wholly
upon land in a shipyard in no sense a part of the sea, and
second, because the repairs were made solely by appellant,
the libelant only furnishing the plant. In other words,
the claim of libelant is merely for charges for the use and
occupation of its marine railway and shipyard, a subject
which under the decision in the The Robert W. Parsons,
is not within the admiralty jurisdiction. See also Berton
v. Dry Dock Co., 219 Fed. Rep. 763, 769. For admiralty
jurisdiction the contract must be maritime as a whole;
and, even if this were not so, the contract here could not
be severed, inasmuch as the libel was brought on the contract as an entirety. Furthermore, if there could be any
such segregation of items, there would be no jurisdiction
in admiralty inasmuch as the only items in dispute-for
overtime rent-are not maritime at all. To give admiralty
jurisdiction, the contract must be maritime in all its elements. Plummer v. Webb, Fed. Cas. No. 11233; The Vidal
Sala, 12 Fed. Rep. 207, 208.
The Act of Congress of 1910 does not purport to give
jurisdiction in this case. If such were its purpose the attempt would be nugatory. The St. Lawrence, 1 Black,
522; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 575; The Sinaloa, 209
Fed. Rep. 287, 288.
An extension of admiralty jurisdiction to cases like
this would constitute an unwarranted invasion of the
field of ordlinary contracts and result in a denial to litigaants of the right of trial by jury and other incidents of
common-kiwprocedure which are jealously guarded by
f

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

the Federal Constitution and the constitutions of the
several States.
Mr. Warren Gregory and Mr. Allen L. Chickering,
for
appellee, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE PriTEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a direct appeal under § 238, Judicial Code (Act
of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1157), involving
only the question whether the cause was within the admiralty jurisdiction of a District Pourt of the United
States..
Both parties are corporations of the State of California.
Appellee, which for convenience may be referred to as
the "Shipbuilding Company," filed its libel in personam
against appellant, which we may call the "Steamship
Company," to recover a balance claimed to be due for
certain work and labor done, services rendered, and materials furnished in and about the repairing of the steamship Yucatan. The Steamship Company filed an answerdenying material averments of -the libel, and a cross-libel
setting up a claim for damages for delay in the making
of the repairs. The cause having been heard upon the
pleadings and proofs, there was a decree for a recovery
in favor of the Shipbuilding Company and a dismissal
of the -cross-libel. After this the Steamship Company
filed a motion to arrest and vacate the decree and to dismiss the cause for want of jurisdiction. The motion was
submitted to the court upon the pleadings, the proofs
taken upon the hearings of the merits, and some slight
additional proof. It was denied, and the present appeal
followed.
The facts were these: In the month of May, 1911, the
Steamship Company was the owner of the American
steamer Yucatan, which then lay moored or tied up at

NORTH PAC.
119.

,.

S. CO. ?,. HALL BROS. CO.

123

Opinion of the Court.

dock upon the waters of Puget Sound at Seattle, in the
State of Washington. The vessel, which was of steel
construction, was in need of extensive repairs. She had
been wrecked, and had remained submerged for a long
time; ice floes had torn away the upper decks, and some of
her bottom plates also needed to be replaced. She was
under charter for an Alaskan voyage, to be commenced
as soon as the repairs could be completed. The Shipbuilding Company was the owner of a shipyard, marinme
railway, machine shops, and other equipment for building
and repairing ships, situate upon and adjacent to the
navigable waters of Puget Sound at Winslow, in the same
State, and had in its employ numerous mechanics and
laborers. Under these circumstances it was agreed between the parties that the Shipbuilding Company should
tow the vessel from -where she lay to the shipyard, haul
her out as required upon the marine railway to a position
on dry land adjacent to the machine shop-the place,
being known as the "dry dock," and the hauling out being
described as "docking "-and should furnish mechanics,
laborers, and foremen as needed, who were to work with
other men already in the employ of the Steamship Company, and under its superintendence; and the Shipbuilding
Company was also to furnish plates, and other materials
needed in the repairs,, and the use of air compfessors,
steam hammers, riveters, boring machines, lathes, blacksmith forge, and the usual and necessary tools for the use
of such machines. At the time the contract was made,
another vessel (the Archer) was upon the dry dock, and
it was uncertain how :soon she could be returned to the.
water. It was- understood that the Yucatan should be
hauled out as soon as the Archer came off, should remain
upon the dry dock only during such part of the work as
required her to be in that position, and -at other times
should lie in the water alongside the plant. For the services to be. performed and the materials and equipment

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

to be furnished the Shipbuilding Company was to receive
stated prices, thus: for labor of all classes, the actual rate.
of wages paid to the men plus 15 per cent.; for use of tug
and scow, a stated sum per hour; for hauling out the
vessel and-the use of the marine railway, a stated sum for
the first 24 hours, and a specified rate per day for 6 "lay
days" immediately following the hauling out; for each
working day thereafter, another rate; for vessel lying
alongside the dock for repairs, no charge; for the running
of air compressors, a certain-charge per hour; for the use
and operation of other machines, certain rates specified;
and for materials supplied, invoice prices and cost of
freight to plant, with 10 per cent. additional.
The vessel was docked and repaired in the manner contemplated by the agreement; she was brought to the shipyard on the 27th of May, and lay in the water alongside
of the dock there until the 17th of June, during'which
time upper decks and beams were put in and other work
of a character that could be done as well while she was
afloat as in the dry dock. On June 17 she was hauled out
and remained in dry dock for about two weeks while
her bottom plates were renewed. During the same period
the propeller was removed to permit of an examination of
the tail shaft, and as the shaft showed deterioration a
newone was ordered to be supplied by a concern in San
Francisco. Upon completion of the work upon the bottom
plates, and on the 5th of July, the vessel was returned to
the water and lay there for about two weeks awaiting
arrival of the new tail shaft. When this arrived the vessel
was again hauled out, the tail shaft and propeller were
fitted, and the remaining repairs completed. Libelant's
claim was for work and labor performed, services rendered,
and materials furnished under the circumstances mentioned, and was based upon the agreed scale of compensation.
. The question in dispute is whether q'claim thus grounded

NORTH PAC. 13.
S: CO. v. HALL BROS. CO.
119.

125

Opinion of the Court.

is the subject of admiralty jurisdiction; appellant's contention being that the contract, or at least an essential
part of it, was for the use by appellant of libelant's marine
railway, shipyard, equipment, and laborers in such manner as appellant might choose to employ them, and that
it called for the performance of no maritime service by
libelant.
The Constitution, Art. III, § 2, extends the judicial
power of the United States to "all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction"; and the legislation enacted by
Congress for carrying the power into execution has been
equally extensive. Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20,
§ 9, 1 Stat. 73, 77; Rev. Stats., § 563 (8); Judicial Code,
§ 24 (3), 36 Stat. 1087, 1091, c.- 231. In defining the
bounds of the civil jp.risdiction, this court from an early
day has rejected those trammels that arose from the restrictive statutes and, judicial prohibitions of England.
Waring V. Clarke, 5 How. 441, 457-459; Insurance Co.
v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1, 24; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall.
558, 576.
It must be taken to be the settled law of this court that
while the civil jurisdiction of the admiralty in matters
of tort depends upon locality-whether the act was committed upon navigable waters-in .matter of contract it
depends upon the subject-matter-the nature and character of the contract.; and that the English rule, which conceded jurisdiction, with a few exceptions, only to contracts
made and to be executed upon the navigable waters, is
inadnissible, the true criterion being the nature of the
contract, as to whether it have reference to maritime
service or maritime transactions. People's Ferry Co. v.
Beers, 20 How. 393, 401; Philadelphia, Wilmington &
Baltimore R. R. Co. v. Philadelphia, &c. Steam Towboat Co., 23 How. 209, 215; Insurance Co. v. Dunhan,
11 Wall. 1, 26; The Eclipse, 135 U. S.599, 608.
In some of the earlier cases the influence of the English

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

rule may be discerned, in that the question whether a
contract was to be performed upon the navigable waters
was referred to as pertinent to the question whether the
contract was of a maritime nature (The Thomas Jefferson,
10 Wheat. 428, 429; The Planter [Peyroux v. Howard],
7 Pet. 324, 341; Steamboat Orleans v. Phebus, 11 Pet.
175, 183; New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants'
Bank, 6 How. 344, 392); but a careful examination of the
opinions shows that the place of performance was dealt
with as an evidential circumstance bearing with more or
less weight upon the fundamental question of the nature
of the contract. If they go beyond this, they must be
deemed to be overruled by InsuranceCo. v. Dunham, supra.
Neither in jurisdiction nor in the method of procedure
are our admiralty courts dependent alone upon the theory
of implied hypothecation; it being established that in a
civil cause of maritime origin involving a personal responsibility the libelant may proceed in personam if
the respondent is within reach of process. The General
Smith, 4 Wheat. 438, 443; Manro v. Almeida, 10 Wheat.
473, 486; New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants'
Bank, 6 How. 344, 390; Morewood v. Enequist, 23 How.
491; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, 644; The Kalorama, 10 Wall.
204, 210; The Sabine, 101 U. S. 384, 386; In re Louisyille Underwriters, 134 U. S.. 488, 490; Workman -v. New
York City, 179 U. S. 552, 573; Ex parte Indiana Transportation Co., 244 U. S. 456. That a materialman fuinishing supplies or repairs may
proceed in admiralty either against the ship in rem or
against the master or owner in personam is recognized
by the 12th Rule in Admiralty, adopted in its present
form in the year 1872 (13 Wall. xiv) after a long controversy that began with The General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438,
and ended with The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 579, 581.
See The Glide, 167 U. S. 606.
It is settled that a contract for building a ship or supply-

NORTH PAC. S. S. CO. v. HALL BROS. GO.
119.

127

Opinion of the Court.

ing mateials for her congtruction is not a maritime contract. Peopte's Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How. 393; Roach v.
Chapman, .22 How. 129; Edwards v. Elliott, 21 Wall. 532,
553, 557; The'Winnebago, 205 U. S. 354,'363. In the case
in 20 Howard the court said (p. 402): "So far from the
contract being purely maritime, and touching rights and
duties appertaining to navigation (on the ocean or elsewhere), it was a contract made on land, to be performed
on land." But the true basis for the distinction' between
the construction and the repair of a. ship, for purposes
of the admiralty jurilsdiction, is to be found in the fact
that the structure does not become a ship, in the legal
sense, until it is completed. and launched. "A ship is
born when she is launched, and lives so long as her identity
is preserved. Prior toj her launching she is a mere congeries of wood and .iron-an ordinary piece of personal
property-as distinctly a land structure as a house, and
subject to mechanics'liens created by state law enforcible
in the state courts. In the baptism of launching she receives her name, and from the moment her keel touches
the water she is transformed, and becomes'a subject
of admiralty jurisdiction." Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183
U. S. 424, 438.
. In The Robert W. Parsons, 191 U. S. 17, 33, 34, it was
held that the admiralty jurisdiction extended to an action
for repairs put upon a vessel while in dry dock; but the
question whether this would apply to a vessel hauled
up on land for repairs was reseryed, the language of the
court, by Mr. Justice Brown, being: "Had the vessel
b-en hauled up by ways upon the land and there repaired,
a different question might have been presented, as to which
we express no opinion; but as-all serious repairs upon the
hulls of vessels are made in dry dock, the proposition that
such repairs are made on land would practically deprive
the admiralty courts of their largest, and most important
jurisdiction in connection with repairs."

, OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

In The &eams*ip Jefferson, 215 U. $. 130, it was held
that the admiralty jurisdiction extends to a claim for
salvage service rendered to a vessel while undergoing
repairs in a dry dock.
What we have said sufficiently indicates the decision
that should be reached in the case at bar. The contract
as made contemplated the performance of services and the
furnishing of the necessary materials for the repairs of
the steamship Yucatan. It was an entire contract, intended to take the ship as she was arid to discharge her
only when completely repaired and fit for the Alaskan
voyage. It did not contemplate, as is contended by appellant, either a lease, or a contract for use in the nature
of a lease, of the libelant's marine railway and machine
shop. The use of these was but incidental; the vessel
being hauled out, when consistent with the progress
of other work of the Shipbuilding Company, for the
,purpose of exposing the ship's bottom to permit of
the removal and replacement of the broken plates and
the examination of the propeller and tail shaft. In The
Planter (Peyroux v. Howard), 7 Pet. 324, 327, 341, the
vessel, requiring repairs below the water line as well as
above, was to be and in fact was hauled up out of the
water; and it was held that the contract for materials
furnished and work performed in repairing her under these
circumstances was a maritime contract. We think the
same rule must be applied to the case before us; that the
doubt intimated in The Robert W. Parsons, 191 U. S. 17,
33, 34, must be laid aside; and that there is no difference
in character as to repairs made upon the hull of a vessel
dependent upon whether they are made while she is
afloat, while in dry dock, or while hauled up by ways upon
land. The nature of the service is identical in the several
cases, and the admiralty jurisdiction extends to all.
This is recognized by the Act of Congress of June 23,
1910, c. 373, 36 Stat. 604, which declares that "Any per-

NORTHI PAC. S. S. CO. v. HALL BROS. CO.
119.

129

Opinion of the Court.

son furnishing repairs, supplies,, or other necessaries,
including the use of dry dock or marine railway, to a vessel,
whether foreign or domestic," upon the order of a proper
person, shall have a maritime lien upon the vessel.
The principle was recognized long ago by Mr. Justice
Nelson in a case decided at the circuit, Wortman v. Griffith (1856), 3 Blatchf. 528, 30 Fed. Cas. No. 18,057, which
was a libel in personmn to recover compensation for services rendered in repairing a steamboat. Libelant was the
owner of a shipyard with apparatus consisting of a railway cradle and other fixtures and implements used for
the purpose of hauling vessels out of the water and sustaining them while being repaired. Certain rates of compensation were charged for hauling the vessel upon the
ways, and a per diem charge for the time occupied while
she was under repair, in cases where the owner of the yard
and apparatus was not employed to do the work but the
repairs were made by other shipmasters, as was done in
that case. The owner of the yard and apparatus, together with his employees, superintended and conducted
the operation of raising and lowering the vessel and also
of fixing her upon the ways preparatory to the repairs,.
a service requiring skill and experience and essential to
the process of repair. Mr. Justice Nelson held there was
no substantial distinction between such a case and the case
where the shipmaster was employed to make the repairs;
and that the admiralty jurisdiction must be sustained.
Nor is the present case to be distinguished upon the
ground that the repairs in which libelant was to furnish
work and materials and the use of a marine railway and
other equipment were to be done under the superintendence of the Steamship Company. This affected the quantum of the services and the extent of the responsibility,
but not the essential character of the services or the nature of the contract, which, in our opinion, were maritime.
Decree affirmed.

