OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

UNITED' STATES v' BROOKLYN EASTERN
DISTRICT TERMINAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 155.

Argued January 20, 1919.-Decided March 24, 1919.

Whether a carrier is a common carrier within the meaning of the Hours
of Service Act, does n6t-depend upon whether its charter declares
it to be such, nor upon whether the State of incorporation so considers it, but upon what it does. P. 304.
The fact that a carrier acts only as agent for other carriers may affect
its contractual obligations to shippers, but cannot change its obligations, under the Hours of Service Act, concerning the physical
operation of its railroad, and the safety of its employees and the
public which the act aims to secure. P. 306.
The act must be liberally construed. P. 307.
A navigation company, owner of a terminal consisting of docks, float
bridges, warehouses, etc., with delivery and other tracks which
crossed a public street and varied individually from a few yards
to a mile in length and aggregated 8 miles, was engaged, under
separate contracts with interstate railroads, in the reception and delivery there of freight, in carload lots and less (the terminal being
named as a reception and delivery station in the tariffs filed by the
railroads with the Interstate Commerce Commission), and in transporting the freight on floats between the terminal and the railroad termini, in cars furnished by the railroads, which it hauled
between its floats and its reception and delivery tracks, etc., by
means of its engines and crews. As agent of the respective railroads, it accepted all freight offered for their lines, issued bills of
lading to destination for outgoing freight and receipts for freight
delivered to consignees, collected the railroads' tariff charges, where
they did not extend credit, adding nothing on its own account,
and accounted to them in full. Its compensation, paid by the respective railroads, was determined by weight and origin or destination of goods handled. It owned no cars, and moved none save
those mentioned, paid nothing for their use, and did not hold itself
out as a common carrier or file tariffs with the Interstate Coin-

UNITED STATES v. BROOKLYN TERMINAL. 297
296.

Axgument for Respondent.

merc3 Commission. Held, a common carrier within the meaning of
the Hours of Service Act, c. 2939, 34 Stat. 1415. P. 304.
Crews engaged in moving at one time a locomotive and seven or eight
cars between the docks and the warehouses and team tracks of a
terminal company, held engaged in the movement of a "train,"
within the meaning of the Hours of Service Act. 6 1. P. 207.
239 Fed. Rep. 287, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson, with whom
Mr. Neal L. Thompson was on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Henry B. Closson, for respondent, in support of
the contention that the Terminal is not a common carrier,-because it is not organized and does not hold
itself out as such, and because its relations are not with
shippers or consignees, but only with the carriers with
which it chooses to contract, and its obligations are
wholly to the latter and not at all to the formercited the following: United States v. Ramsey, 197 Fed.
Rep. 144; Jackson Iron Works v. Hurlbut, 158 N. Y. 34,
38; United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 213 Fed.
Rep. 332; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Henson, 56 Tex.
Civ. App. 468; Kentucky & Indiana Bridge Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 567, 615, 617;
6 Cyc. 366.
It is immaterial that the Terminal may be subject to
the Interstate Commerce Act. It was because of the
broad definitions of "railroad" (including terminal facilities), and "transportation," in that act, and because of
provisions in the acts of their incorporation, and their
control by railroads, that the*terminals involved in the
following cases were held subject to the Interstate Commerce Act or the Employers' Liability Act. Southern
Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,

OCTOBER T ERM, 1918.
Argument for Respondent.

249 U. S.

219 U. S. 498; United Stats v. Union Stock Yard, 192
Fed. Rep. 330; 226 U. S. 286; MeNamara v. Washingtot
Terminal Co., 37 App. D. C. 384. Terminal Taxicab Co.
v. District of Columbia, 241 U. S. 252, arose under f statute subjecting every "public utility" or "common carrier" to the orders of a commission, and declaring that
the phrase "common carrier" should be held to include
"every corporation . . . controlling or managing
any agency or agencies for public use for the conveyance
of persons or property within the District of Columbia
for hire." This court held that the Taxicab Company was
an agency for public use for the conveyance of persons
within the District. The decision throws no light upon
the question here whether the Brooklyn Eastern District
Terminal is a common carrier "in the usual and ordi,
nary acceptation of the term." United States v. Ramsey,
8-upra.
For similar reasons, decisions sustaining prosecutions
against transportation corporations for violation of the
provisions of the Safety Appliance Act requiring the use
of automatic couplers, grab-irons and draw-bars cannot
properly be cited as decisions that the corporations in
question were "common carriers," for these provisions
relating to cars apply to a1l cars "used on any railroad engaged in interstate commerce."
Amendment of March 2,
1903; Belt Ry. Co. v. United States, 168 Fed. Rep. 542;
United States v. Union Stockyard & Transit Co., 192 Fed.
Rep. 330, 336; United States v. Union Stockyards Co. of
Omaha, 161 Fed. Rep. 919; 169 Fed. Rep. 404; Hines v.
Stanley G. I. Co., 199 Massachusetts, 522.
The Terminal is not "engaged in the transportation of
property by railroad"; and for that reason also is not
subject to the Hours of Service Act. Merchandise in a
car being shunted back and forth over its tracks is not
being "transported by railroad." It is being made ready
for transportation by water to the railroad or is being

UNVI'E)
296.

STATES ?. BRO)()KLYN 'TEIIINAL. 299
Opinion of the Court.

delivered after such transportation. Taggart v. Republic
Iron & Steel Co., 141 Fed. Rep. 910.
The car floats in their daily movement between its
station and the different railroad termini do not constitute
"ferries used or operated in- connection with any railroad," which the act declares the term "railroad" shall
include. St. Clair County v. Interstate Transfer Co., 192
U. S. 454, 467, 468.
The employees were not "actually engaged in 'or connected with the movement of any train." Aggregations
of cars, however many, while in process of being switched
in switching yards by switching locomotives, are not
"trains "; to be such they must be proceeding on a journey
from one point to another on the main line of the railroad.
This distinction is made in the following: United States v.
Erie R. R. Co., 237 U. S. 402; United States v. Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 237 U. S. 410; La Mere
v. Railway Transfer Co., 125 Minnesota, 159; United
States v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 203 Fed. Rep. 775; Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 198 Fed.
Rep. 637; United States v. Pere Marquette R. R. Co., 211
Fed. Rep. 220; Clary v.Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Ry. Co., 141 Wisconsin, 411; Lynch v. Great Northern Ry.
Co., 112 Minnesota, 382.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Hours of Service Act (March 4, 1907, c. 2939, 34
Stat. 1415) ' prohibits any common carrier by railroad enAct of March 4, 1907, c.2939, 34 Stat. 1415.
"That the povisions of this Act shall apply t. any common carrier
or carriers, their officers, agents, and employees, engaged in the transportation of pascngers or property y 'railroad . . . from one
State . . . to any other State.
The term 'railroad'
ais
u-;ed in this Act shall include all bridges and ferries used or operated

OCTOIBER 'ERM,

.t)18.

Opinim of the Court.

249 U. S.

gaged in interstate commerce from requiring or permitting
an employee to remain on duty for a longer period than
sixteen consecutive hours. For alleged violation of this
provision, proceedings were brought against the Brooklyn
Eastern District Terminal in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of New York. The
defendant contended that it was not a common carrier;
that it was not engaged in interstate commerce by railroad; and that its employees were not "comected with
the movement of any train." Upon facts which were
agreed the trial court entered judgment for the Government. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgment on the ground that, while the Terminal was engaged
in interstate commerce and the employment in question
was connected with the movement of trains, it was not a
common carrier. 239 Fed. Rep. 287. The case comes
here on writ of certiorari (243 U. S. 647); and the substantial question before us is whether the' Terminal is
within the scope of the Hours of Service Act, as being a
common carrier. The essential facts are these:
1. The Terminal is a navigation corporation with an
authorized capital stock of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000), incorporated under ยง 10 of Article III of the'
transportation corporations law of the State of New York,
which reads as follows:
"Seven or more persons may become a corporation, for
the purpose of building for their own use, equipping, furnishing, fitting, purchasing, chartering, navigating or
in connection with any railroad, and also all the road in use by any
common carrier operating a railroad, whether owned or operated under
a contract, agreement, or lease; and the term 'employees' as used in
this Act shall be held to mean persons actually engaged in or connected

with the movement of any train.
"See. 2. That it shall be unlawful for any 'common carrier, its
officers or agents, subject to this Act to require or permit any employee
subject to this Act to be or remain on duty for a longer period than
sixteen consecutive hours

.

.

UNITED STATES v.BROOKLYN TERMINAL.
296.

301

Opinion of the Court.

owning steam, sail or other boats, ships, vessels or other
property to be used in any lawful business, trade, commerce or navigation upon the ocean, or any seas, sounds,
lakes, rivers, canals or other waterways, and for the carriage, transportation or storing of lading, freight, mails,
property or passengers thereon."
In its certificate of incorporation, the corporate powers
and purposes of the defendant are stated as follows:
"The purposes for which it is formed are to build for
its own use, equip, furnish, fit, purchase, charter, navigate,
and own steam, sail, and other boats, ships, vessels, and
other property, to be used in the business of carrying,
transporting, storing, and lading merchandise in New
York Harbor and the waters adjacent thereto and connected therewith and the territory bordering thereon."
2. The Terminal operates a union freight station at
Brooklyn under individual contracts with ten interstate
railroads and several steamship companies. From the
railroads it receives both carload and less-than-carload
freight and transports the same from their termini to its
Brooklyn docks. There, the cars containing such freight
are hauled from the car floats by its locomotives and placed
for unloading either on its team tracks or at it6 freight
houses. The Terminal receives likewise from shippers
both carload and less-than-carload outgoing freight originating at Brooklyn and consigned to points upon the
various railroads with which it has contracts. The cars
carrying this outgoing freight are then switched and
loaded by its locomotives upon its floats and transported
by its tugs to the docks of the several railroads.
3. For its services in handling freight as above set forth,
the Terminal is paid not by the shipper or consignee, but
by the railroad or Steamship company upon whose account
the transportation service is performed, at the rate of 3
cents per 100 pounds of freight moving to or from points
east of the western termini of said railroads, and 4 1-5 cents

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

per 100 pounds on freight moving to or from points beyond such termini. Upon prepaid shipments from shippers not on the credit lists of the railroads it collects fromthe shipper at Brooklyn the money and charges for the
transportation of such freight from that point to its final
destination; and also collects from the consignee at Brooklyn the charges for the transportation of such freight from
its point of origin to that place, when such charges have
not been prepaid. The freight moneys and charges so
received by the defendant from shippers or consignees
are accounted for and paid over by it without deduction
to the railroads or steamship lines upon whose account
they are collected.
4. The Terminal does not hold itself out as a common
carrier; nor dogs it 'file with the Interstate Commerce
Commission any tariffs or concurrences with tariffs, or
copies of the contracts with the common carriers by
whom it is paid for the transportation of. freight, as heretofore set forth. The terminal at Brooklyn is designated
by such railroads and rail and water lines, in the tariffs
filed by them with the Interstate Commerce Commission,
as one of their receiving and delivering stations for freight
in the Port of New York; and through bills of lading to
such terminal as such station are issued by them on freight
to be delivered there. For all freight originating at Brooklyn bills of lading of the railroad or steamship line to which
the freight is to be delivered are there issued to the shipper
by one of the defendant's employees, who is duly authorized to issue such bills of lading by the railroad or steamship line by which the freight is to be transported to its
final destination or destinations after the same is delivered
to such railroad or steamship line by defendant.
5. The tracks of the Terminal which extend from its
float bridges to several warehouses, coal pockets, platforms, and, team tracks have an aggregate length of 8-1/3
miles. One track connecting its several dock and delivery

UNITEI) S'I'ATIE' r. IRlO)KLYN ITB.l
296.

NAL. 303

Opinion of tne Court.

tracks which is kept clear for operating its switching engines is about one mile in length. ' The length of haul
effected by its locomotives in moving cars between its
float bridges and warehouses, platforms, pockets, and
team tracks varies from a few yards to nearly a mile.
The nunIber of cars so hauled as part of a movement
varies frbm a single car to eight cars.. As an incident to'
such movement its locomotives hauling cars cross a public

street in Brooklyn.
6. Defendant owns or hires no cars itself, and no cars,
except the ones heretofore mentioned, are ever moved
over its tracks. For the use of such cars defendant pays
no charges; and except by the switching service heretofore
described, it transports freight only by water. It handles
interstate and intrastate freight indiscriminately, the
larger part being interstate. It transports no passerigers.
7. In connection with the movement of one or more
cars between the floats and the loading tracks, warehouses, and team or delivery tracks, defendant employs
four to eight switching crews during the day and two at
night, each crew consisting of a conductor, engineer and
two or more brakemen.
The Hours of Service Act declares (in the first section)
that, "The term 'railroad' as used in this Act shall include
all bridges and ferries used or. operated in connection with
any raihoad, and also all the road in use by any common
carrier operating a railroad, whether owned or operated
under a contract, agreement, or lease." Hence, neither
the character of the Terminal's railroad nor its independent
ownership excludes it from the scope of the act. But the
Terminal contends that it is not subject to the provisions
of the statute, since it is not. incorporated as a common
carrier and does not hold itself out as such; does not file
tariff; and does not undertake to transport property for
all who may apply to have their goods transported; but.
merely transports as agent such freight as is delivered to

OCTOBER TERM 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

it by or for those carriers, and those only, with whom it
has elected to make special contracts; and that, under
these contracts it performs for the railroads, and not for
the public, a part of the whole carriage which they, as
common carriers, have undertaken with the shipper to

perform.
We need not undertake a definition of the term "common carrier" for all purposes. Nor are we concerned with
questions of corporate power or of duties to shippers, which
frequently compel nice distinctions between public and
private carriers. We have merely to determine whether
Congress, in declaring the Hours of Service Act applicable
"to any common carrier or carriers, their officers, agents,
and employees, engaged in the transportation of passengers or property by railroad," made its prohibitions
applicable to the Terminal and its employees engaged in
the operations here involved. The answer to that question does not depend upon whether its charter declares
it to be a common carrier, nor upon whether the State of
incorporation considers it such; but upon what it does.
Terminal Taxicab Co. v. District of Columbia, 241 U. S.
252, 254.
The relation of the Terminal to the several railroads is
substantially the same as that of the terminal considered
in United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 225 U. S.
306; 231 U. S. 274, 288. The transportation performed by
the railroads begins and ends at the Terminal. Its docks
and warehouses are public freight stations of the railroads.
These with its car floats, even if not under common ownership or management, are used as an integral part of each
railroad line, like the stockyards in United States v. Union
Stock Yard Co., 226 U. S. 286, and the wharfage facilities
in Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 219 U. S. 498. They are clearly unlike private
plant facilities. Compare Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1, 25.
The services rendered by the Terminal are public in -their

UNITED STATES v. BROOKLYN TERMINAL.
29o.

305

Opinion of the Court.

nature; and of a kind ordinarily performed by.a common
carrier. If these terminal operations were conducted directly by any, or jointly by all, of the ten railroad companies with which the Terminal has contracts, the operations would clearly be within the scope of the Hours of
Service Law. The evils sought to be remedied exist
equally, whether the terminal operations are conducted
by the railroad companies themselves or by the Terminal
as their agent; aid whether the Terminal acts only as'
such agent for railroads or undertakes in addition to transport on its own account goods for shippers. The precise
question presented is, therefore, whether the fact that
the Terminal conducts these operations, not as an integral part of a single railroad system but wholly as an
agent for one or several, exempts the railroad companies,
because they are not the employer and exempts the Terminal, because' it is not a common carrier; thus making
inapplicable a provision regarding the physical operation
of the property devised for the protection of employees
and the public
One who transports property from place to place over
a definite route as agent for a common carrier may, under
conceivable circumstances, be a private carrier. But what
is there in the facts above recited to endow the Terminal
with that character? The service which it performs is
distinctly public in character ;-that is, conveying between
Brooklyn and points on any of the ten interstate carriers
and their connections all property that is offered. The
fact that the railroad of the Terminal is short does not
prevent it from being a common carrier, United States v.
Sioux City Stock Yards Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 556; nor does
the fact that the thing which it undertakes to carry is
contained only in cars furnished by the railroad companies
with which it has contracts. Railroads, whose only service is hauling cars for other railroads, have 'been held liable
as common carriers under the Safety Appliance Acts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.
/

Union Stockyards Co. of Omaha v. United States, 169 Fed.
Rep. 404; Belt Railway Co. of Chicago v. United States,
168 Fed. Rep. 542; and under the Twenty-Eight Hour
Law, United States v. Sioux City Stock Yards Co., supra.I
What the Terminal contracts to transport, however, is
not primarily cars, but their contents. Its compensation
is measured not by the weight, size, or character of the
car, but by the weight iind the origin or destination of the
goods carried therein. These goods the Terminal must,
under its contracts with the railroad companies, receive
and carry at the rates specified for all who offer them, as
fully as the railroad companies do at their other stations.
The incidental services performed by the Terminal in
respect to these goods are also the same as those performed by the railroad companies at their other stations.
For all freight originating at Brooklyn, ii issues through
bills of lading to destination. Upon prepaid shipments
originating there, it collects from the shippers the charges
for transportation from Brooklyn to final destination;
except where shippers are on the credit lists of the railroad companies. Upon goods arriving over its line at
Brooklyn, it collects from the consignees the charges
from point of origin, unless these were prepaid. As the
Terminal receives both from railroad companies and from
shippers also less-than-carload freight, it doubtless performs the loading and unloading, as is done at other railroad stations; and for freight delivered4at Brooklyn takes
appropriate receipts. In no respec,, therefore, does the
service actually performed by the Terminal for or in respect
to shippers differ from that performed by the railroad companies at their, other stations. True, the service is performed by the Terminal under contracts with the riilroad companies as agent for them and, not on its own
account. But a common carrier does not cease to be
'Compare also McNamara v. Washington Terminal Co., 37 App.
D. C. 384, 394, et seq.; State v. Union Stock Yards Co., 81 Nebraska, 67.

UNITED STATES v. BROOKLYN TERMINAL. 307
296.

.

Opinion of the Court.

such merely because the services which it renders to the
public are performed as agent for another. The relation of
connecting carriers with the initial carrier is frequently
that of agent. See Bank of Kentucky v. Adams Express
Co., 93 U. S. 174. The relation of agency may preclude
contractual obligations to the shippers, but it cannot
change the obligations of the carrier concerning the physical operation of the railroad under the Hours of Service
Act, which as this court has said, must be liberally construed to secure the safety of employees and the public.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States,
244 U. S. 336.
It is now admitted that the Terminal is engaged in

interstate commerce; and it is clear that at least "switching crews" engaged in moving at one time a locomotive
with seven or eight cars between the docks and the warehouses or team tracks, a distance of nearly a mile, are
engaged in the movement of a "train."
The decisions
under the Safety Appliance Acts depend upon the particular context in which the word "train" there occurs,
and are not here applicable. Compar United States
v. Erie R. R. Co., 237 U. S. 402, 407-408.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.

