OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

249 U. S.

It is insisted that no tender of any sum for license tax
was made in time, and therefore plaintiffs in error cannot
question the validity of the enactment because of discrimination. But the Supreme Court expressly declared
that the statute fixed the ,liability of Wright at one hundred dollars. A tender of less would have availed nothing
and it was therefore unnecessary.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedhigs not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

NEW ORLEANS & NORTHEASTERN- RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL. v. SCARLET.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 242.

Argued March 18, 1919.-Decided April 21, 1919.

A state law relieving the plaintiff of the burden of proving negligence
is constitutionally inapplicable to a case under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. P. 529. New Orleans & Northeastern R. R.
('o. v.Harris. 247 U. S.307.
Under the Boiler Inspection Act, the mere breaking of a king pin and
coupling chains, without other evidence, does not establish, as a
n.atter of law, that they were defective. P. 530.
When the decisibn of the state court upholds a state statute in conflict with a valid law of the United, States, review is by writ of error.

Id.
115 Mississippi. 285, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. Blanc Monroe, with whom Mr. Monte M. Leinann, Mr. Albert S. Bozeman, Mr. L. E. Jeffries, Mr.

NEW ORLEANS & N. E. R. R. CO. r. SCARLET. 529
528.

Opinion of the Court.

S. R. Prince and Mr. H. O'B. Cooper were on the briefs,
for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Thomas C. Fewell, for defendant in error, submitted.
Mr. C. B. Cameron was on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
Scarlet was a fireman on the New Orleans & Northeastern Railroad. While engaged in the performance of
his duties he was injured by being thrown down between
the engine:and the tender. The accident was caused by
the uncoupling of engine and tender; and this was apparently due to ,the breaking of the king pin, which
fastened the draw bar to the tender, and the breaking of
the coupling chains between engine and tender. He
brought suit in a state court of Mississippi under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c.
149, 35 Stat. 65, and the Boiler Inspection Act of February 17, 1911, c. 103, 36 Stat. 913, as amended by the
Act of March 4, 1915, c. 169, 38 Stat. 1192, and recovered
judgment which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State. 115 Mississippi, 285. The case comes here by
writ of error under ยง 237 of the Judicial Code, as amended
by the Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726.
The Railroad contends that the Supreme Court of Mississippi erred in sustaining the action of the trial court,
which charged the jury that the so-called "Priqma Facie
Act" of Mississippi (ยง 1985 of the Code of 1906, as
amended by c. 215, Laws 1912, p. 290) applied, and that
it relieved the plaintiff of the burden of proof to establish
negligence. Scarlet concedes now that the statute can not
constitutionally be applied to suits under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, since this court has so decided
in New Orleans & Northcastern R. R. Co. v. Hari-is, 247

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

U. S. 367; and that the judgment must be reversed if the
rights of the Railroad were prejudiced by this error. But
he contends that the Railroad was not prejudiced, because negligence on its part is not essential to recovery.
He insists that the Boiler - Inspection Act, as amended,
imposes upon the Railroad the absolute duty (compare
St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor,
210 U. S. 281) to have the "locomotive and tender and
all parts and appurtenances thereof" in "proper condition
and safe to operate;" that the mere breaking of the king
pin and coupling chains shows conclusively that they
were defective; that the evidence shows conclusively that
this was the proximate cause of the injury; and that
the plaintiff was therefore entitled, under the federal
act, to have the jury peremptorily instructed to render
a verdict in his favor. It does not appear that this contention was made before the Supreme Court of the State,
and it was apparently not considered by that court. But
whether Scarlet is now in a position to avail himself of
the contention need not be determined (compare Yazoo
& Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v. Mullins, decided this
day, post, 531); for it is clear that the evidence did not establish as a matter of law that the king pin or the chains
were defective. At most it presented a question for the
jury. Compare Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v.
Gotschall, 244 U. S. 66. We cannot say, therefore, that
the Railroad was not prejudiced by the error of the trial
court in instructing the jury that the "Prima Facie Act"
was applicable.
The conflict of a state statute with a valid law of the
United States being involved and the decision having
been in favor of the validity of the statute, the case is
properly here on 4 writ of: error; and the petition for a
writ of certiorari is'denied.
Reversed.

