OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for the United States.

249 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. DOREMUS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 367. Submitted January 16, 1919.-Decided March 3, 1919.
While Congress may not exert authority which is wholly reserved to
the States, the power conferred by the Constitution to levy excise
taxes, uniform throughout the United States, is to be exercised at
the discretion of Congress; and, where the provisions of the law
enacted have some reasonable relation to this power, the fact that
they may have been impelled by a motive, or may accomplish a
purpose, other than the raising of revenue, cannot invalidate them,
nor can the fact that they affect the conduct of a business which is
subject to regulation by the state police power. P. 93.
The Nafcotic Drug Act of December 17, 1914, c. 1, 38 Stat. 785, § 1,
requires those who produce, import, manufacture, compound, deal
in, dispense, sell, distribute or give away opium or coca leaves, or
their compounds, derivatives, etc., to register and pay a special tax.
Section 2 makes sales, etc., of these drugs unlawful except to persons
who give orders on forms issued by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, which orders must be preserved for official inspection;
forbids any person to obtain the drugs by means of such order forms
for any purpose other than the use, sale or distribution thereof by
him in the conduct of a lawful business therein, or the legitimate
practice of his profession; but declares that it does not apply (a) to
the dispensing or distributing of the drugs to patients by physicians
registered under the act, in the course of professional practice only,
provided the physicians keep certain records for official inspection,
or (b) to sales, etc., by dealers upon prescriptions issued by registered
physicians, provided the delers preserve the prescriptions for like
inspection. Held, that the provisions of § 2 have a reasonable relation to the enforcement of the tax provided by § 1 (which is clealy
unobjectionable), and do not exceed the power of Congress. P. 94.
246 Fed. Rep. 958, reversed,

THE case is stated "in the opinion.
Mr. Assi8tant Attorney General Porter and Mr. W. C.

Herron for the United States:

UNITED STATES v. DOREMUS.
86.

Argument for the United States.

A reading of the indictment shows that the first two
counts and each succeeding two counts must be read together in order to make out the offense intended to be
charged.
Looking at § 2 of the act, in connection with the title
and all the other provisions thereof, it is clear that the key
to its meaning is in the distinction made between producers
of, and dealers in, these drugs, on the one hand, and consumers of them on the other. The former must register
and pay the special tax; the latter not. The incidence of
the tax is placed upon the former by the title of the act,
and by its first section, while the latter are not directly
dealt with by the act at all. This distinction is believed
to be fundamental. Assuming it to be the practical object in the mind of Congress, the natural end to be accomplished by the act in this connection would be to see
that the drugs in question, in so far as the incidence of the
tax upon them was concerned, came really and honestly
into the hands of consumers, and did not, through the
passport of a druggist or doctor, come into the hands of a
dealer who would not register, would not pay the special
tax, and whose dealings would not be supervised by the
Bureau of Internal Revenue. The facility with which
they may be transferred, and the ease therefore with which
the tax upon dealers may be evaded are evident, and therefore methods and means, which seem at first drastic, may
nevertheless be properly deemed by Congress necessary
to secure the assessment of all producers and dealers,
while relieving genuine consumers.
Congress, consequently, provided for the producers
and dealers in the provisions of §§ 1 and 2. It required
the transferrer and the transferee both to register in the
normal case, and to pay the tax, and to use official order
forms in their dealings with each other, so as to secure that
both should so register and pay the tax.
It recognized, however, consumers in paragraphs '(a)

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Argument for the United States.

249 U. S.

and (b) of § 2. It permitted the sale of the drugs to them
either from a physician directly -or from him indirectly
through a prescription to a druggist. In order, however,
to prevent frauds on the revenue by the obtaining of the
drugs under the guise of bona fide consumers by persons
who in truth intended to deal in them without registering
and paying the special tax, it required that physicians
dispensing the drugs directly should do so only to "patients" treated in the course of professional practice, and
that druggists should dispense the drugs only on "prescriptions" issued by physicians, and that neither of them
should procure the drugs on order forms for any purpose
other than the distribution of them to bona fide consumers-that is, genuine patients of a physician. The act
thus looked at hangs together. It is true, of*course, that
it also had the moral purpose of discouraging the use of
the drugs except as a medicine, but its main purpose as a
revenue measure was to see that dealers in the drugs do
not escape the tax.
Counsel then instanced, as well-known examples of
the use of the taxing power in connection with social or
moral ends, the protective tariff system; the tax on foreign-built yachts, Billings v. United States, 232 U. S.
.261; on dealers in liquors and lottery tickets, License Tax
Cases, 5 Wall. 462; on notes of state banks, Veazie Bank
v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; on importation of alien passengers,
Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580; graduation of taxes,
Magoun v. Bank- 170 U. S. 283; Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41; Brushaber v. United States, 240 U. S. 1; on oleomargarine, In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526; McCray v. United
Slates, 195 U. S. 27; on sugar refiners, American Sugar
Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89. On the right to
exempt certain classes of dealers, United States v. Cal-.
houn, 39 Fed. Rep. 604; Cook v. Marshall County, 196
U. S. 261. And see Mountain.Timber Co. v. Washington,243
U. S. 219; United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394.

UNITE]) STATES v. DOREMUS.
86.

Opinion of the Court.

'The same presumption prevails in favor of the constitutionality of the means adopted by Congress to effectuate
its exercise of the taxing power as prevails regarding the
exercise of the power itself. Where Congress has acted
clearly in the exercise of its taxing power, the means employed to effectuate this legitimate functioning are in
their nature practical, belonging to the field of experiment
and experience, and outside of the field of judicial knowledge. Hence, if it once be determined that the main provision of the act levying the tax and defining its inciderce
is constitutional, the means devised by Congress for the
collection of the tax and the prevention of frauds in connection with it will, except in the most extraordinary
case, be held to be within the proper scope of the legislative power. In re Kollock, supra; McCray v. United
States, supra; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509; Felsenheld v.
United States, 186 U. S. 126; United States v. 132 Packages,
76 Fed. Rep. 362; United States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41;
United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, supra. Counsel also cited
Blunt v. United States, 255 Fed. Rep. 332; Baldwin v.
United States, 238 Fed. Rep. 793; United States v. Rosenberg, 251 Fed. Rep. 963; Foreman v. United States, 255
Fed. Rep. 621; and Hughes v. United States, 253 Fed.
Rep. 543, dealing with the act of Congress in question.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE, DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Doremus was indicted for violating § 2 of the so-called
Harrison Narcotic Drug Act. 38 Stat. 785; 6 U. S. Comp.
Stats. 1916, § 6287g. Upon demurrer to the indictment
the District Court held 'the section unconstitutional for
the reason that it was not a revenue measure, and was an
invasion of the police power reserved to the States. 246
Fed. Rep. 958. The case is here under the Criminal Appeals Act, 34 Stat. 1246.

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

There are ten counts in the indictment. The first two
were treated by the court below as sufficient to raise the
constitutional question decided. The first count in substance charges that: Doremus, a physician, duly registered,
and who had paid the tax required by the first section of
the act, did unlawfully, fraudulently, and knowingly sell
and give away and distribute to one Ameris a certain
quantity of heroin, to wit, five hundred one-sixth grain
tablets of heroin, a derivative of opium, the sale not being
in pursance of a written order on a form issued on the
blank furnished for that purpose by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue.
The second count charges in substance that: Doremus
did unlawfully and knowingly sell, dispense and distribute to one Ameris five hundred one-sixth grain tablets
of heroin not in the course of the regular professional
practice of Doremus, and not for the treatment of any
disease from which Ameris was suffering, but as was
well known by Doremus, Ameris was addicted to the use
of the drug as a habit, being a person popularly known as
a "dope fiend," and that Doremus did sell, dispense, and
distribute the drug, heroin, to Ameris for the purpose of
gratifying his appetite for the drug as an habitual user
thereof.
Section 1 of the act requires persons who produce, import, manufacture, compound, deal in, dispense, sell, distribute, or give away opium or coca leaves or any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative or preparation thereof,
to register with the collector of internal revenue of the
district his, name or style, place of business, and place or
places where such business is to be carried on. At the
time of such registry every person who produces, imports,
manufactures, compounds, deals in, dispenses, sells, distributes, or gives away any of the said drugs, is required
to pay to the collector a special tax of $1.00 per annum.
It is made unlawful for any 'person required to register

UNITED STATES r. DOREMUS.
86.

Opinion of the Court.

under the terms of the act to produce, import, manufacture, compound, deal in, dispense, sell, distribute, or give
away any of the said drugs without having registered and
paid the special tax provided in the act.
Section 2 provides in part:
"It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, barter,
exchange, or give away any of the aforesaid drugs except
in pursuance of a written order of the person to whom such
article is sold, bartered, exchanged, or given, on a form to
be issued in blank for that purpose by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue. Every person who shall accept any
such order, and in pursuance thereof shall sell, barter, exchange, or give away any of the aforesaid drugs, shall preserve such order for a period of two years in such a way as
to be readily accessible to inspection by any officer, agent,
or employee of the Treasury Department duly authorized
for that purpose, and the State, Territorial, District, municipal, and insular officials named in section five of this
Act. Every person who shall give an order as herein
provided to any other,person for any of the aforesaid drugs
shall, at or before the time of giving such order, make
-or cause to be made a duplicate thereof on a form to
be issued in blank for that purpose by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue, and in case of the acceptance of
such order, shall preserve such duplicate for said period
of two years in such a way as to be readily accessible to
inspection by the officers, agents, employees, and officials
hereinbefore mentioned. Nothing contained in this section shall apply"(a) To the dispensing or distribution of any of the
aforesaid drugs to a patient by a physician, dentist, or
veterinary surgeon registered under this Act in the course
of his professional practice only: Provded, That such
physician, dentist, or veterinary surgeon shall keep a
record of all such drugs dispensed or distributed, showing
th amount dispensed or distributed, the date, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

name and address of the patient to whom such drugs are
dispensed or distributed, except such as may be dispensed
or distributed to a patient upon whom such physician,
dentist or veterinary surgeon shall personally attend; and
such record shall be kept for a period of two years from the
date of dispensing or distributing such drugs,, subject to
inspection, as provided in this Act.
"(b) To the sale, dispensing, or distribution of any
of the aforesaid drugs by a dealer to a consumer under
and in pursuance of a written prescription issued by a
physician, dentist, or veterinary surgeon registered under
this Act: Provided, however, That such prescription shall
be dated as of the day on which signed and shall be signed
by the physician, dentist, or veterinary surgeon who shall
have issued the same: And provided further, That such
dealer shall preserve such prescription for a period of two
years from the day on which such prescription is filled in.
such a way as to be readily accessible to inspection by the
officers, agents, employees, and officials hereinbefore mentioned."
It is made unlawful for any person to obtain the drugs
by means of the order forms for any purpose other than
the use, sale or distribution thereof by him in the conduct
of a lawful business in said drugs, or the legitimate practice of his profession.
It is apparent that the section makes sales of these drugs
unlawful except to persons who have the order forms 'issued by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and the
order is required to be preserved for two years in such way
as to be readily accessible to official inspection. But it ii
not to apply (a) to physicians, etc., dispensing and distributing the drug to patients in the course of professional
practice, the physician to keep a record thereof, except
in the case of personal attendance upon a patient; and (b)
to the sale, dispensing, or 'distributing of the drugs by a
'dealer upon, a prescription issued by a physician, etc.,

UNITE)

86.

STATES . DOREMUS.

Opinion of the Court.

registered under the act. Other exceptions follow which
are unnecessary to the consideration of this case.
Section 9 inflicts ia fine or imprisonment, or both "or
violations of the act.
This statute purports to be passed under the authority
of the Constitution, Article I, § 8, which gives the Congress
power "To ray and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the comamon defence and general welfare of the United States; but all
duties, imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout
the United States."
The only limitation upon the power of Congress to
levy excise taxes of the character now under consideration'
is geographical uniformity throughout the United States.
This court has often declared it cannot add others. Subject t6 such limitation Congress may select the subjects
of taxation, and may exercise the power conferred at its
discretion. License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 471. Of
course Congress may not in the exercise of federal power
exert authority wholly reserved to the States. Many
decisions of this court have so declared. And from an
early day the court has held that the fact that other
motives may impel the exercise of federal taxing power
does not authorize the courts to inquire into that subject.
If the legislation enacted has some reasonable relation to
the exercise of the taxing authority conferred- by the
Constitution, it cannot be invalidated because of the
supposed motives which induced it. Veazie Bank v.
Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 541, in which case this court sustained
a tax on a state bank issue of circulating notes. McCray
v. United States, 195 U. S. 27, where the power was thoroughly considered, and an act levying a special tax upon
oleomargarine artificially colored was sustained. And
see Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 147, 153, 156,
and cases cited.
Nor is it sufficient to invalidate the taxing authority

OC TOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

given to the Congress by the Constitution that the same
business may be regulated by the police power of the
State. License Tax Cases, 5 Wall., supra.
The act may not be declared unconstitutional because
its effect may be to accomplish another purpose as well
as the raising of revenue. If the legislation is within the
taxing authority of Congress-that is sufficient to sustain it. In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526, 536.
The legislation under consideration was before us in
a case concerning § 8 of the act, and in the course of the
decision we said:."It may be assumed that the statute
has a moral end as well as revenue in view, but we are of
opinion that the District Court, in treating those ends
as to be reached only through a revenue measure and
within the limits of a revenue measure, was right."
United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 402. Considering the full power of Congress over excise taxation
the decisive question here is: Have the provisions in
question any relation to the raising of revenue? That
Congress might levy an excise tax upon such dealers, and
others who are named in § 1 of the act, cannot be successfully disputed. The provisions of § 2, to which we have
referred, aim to confine sales to registered dealers and to
those dispensing the drugs as physicians, and to those
who come to dealers with legitimate prescriptions of
physicians. Congress, with full power over the subject,
short of arbitrary and unreasonable action which is not
to be assumed, inserted these provisions in an act specifically providing for the raising of revenue. Considered
of themselves, we think they tend to keep the traffic
aboveboard and subject to inspection by those authorized to collect the revenue. They tend to diminish the
opportunity of unauthorized persons to obtain the drugs
and sell them clandestinely without paying .he tax imfrosed by the federal law. This case well illustrates the
possibility which may have induced Congress to insert

UNITED STATES v. DOREMUS.
IX6.

95

Dissent.

the provisions limiting sales to registered dealers and
requiring patients to obtain these drugs as a medicine
from physicians or upon regular prescriptions. Ameris,
being as the indictment charges an addict, may not have
used this great number of doses for himself. He might
sell some to others without paying the tax, at least Congress may have deemed it wise to prevent such possible
dealings because of their effect upon the collection of the
revenue.
We cannot agree with the contention that the provisions of § 2, controlling the disposition of these drugs in
the ways described, can have nothing to do with facili-"
tating the collection of the revenue, as we should be
obliged to do if we were to. declare this act beyond the
power of Congress acting under its constitutional authority to impose excise taxes. It follows that the judgment
of the District Court must be reversed.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE dissents because he is of opinion
that the court below correctly held the act of Congress,
in so far as it embraced the matters complained of, to be
beyond the constitutional power of Congress to enact
because to such extent the statute was a mere attempt
by Congress to exert a power not delegated, that is, the
reserved police power of the States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER
and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concur in this dissent.

