UNITED STATES v. GUDGER.
Opinion of the Court.,

UNITED STATES v. GUDGER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNIrED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT -OF VIRGINIA.

No. 408. •Argued December 11, 1918.-Decided April 14, 1919.

The Reed Amendment, prohibiting the transporting of liquor in interstate commerce "into" any State the laws of which prohibit its
manufacture, ete., does not preclude its transportation through such
a State to another.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assiatant Attorneg General Frierson for the United
States.
Mr. Joseph S. Graydon, with whom Mr. Lawrence Maxwell was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
Virginia being a State which prohibits the manufactur
or sale therein of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes, the defendant in error was indicted for having
transported into that State an enumerated quantity of
whisky in violation of the provision in § 5 of the Post
Office Appropriation Act of March 3, 1917, known as the
Reed Amendment. (39 Stat.. 1058, 1069). For the purposes of a motion to quash, the United States Attorney
furnished a bill of particulars of the evidence which the
Government intended to offer to sustain the indictment,
and the defendant also made admissions which were
reeited in such bill. The motion to quash, as elucidated

OCTOBER TERIM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

by the bill of particulars, was granted on the ground that
the statute, when rightly construed, did not embrace the
acts charged. The United States prosecutes error.
The case stated by the court below is this:
"That the defendant was a passenger on a railroad
train from Baltimore, Maryland, to Asheville, North
Carolina, and that while the train was temporarily stopped
at the station at Lynchburg, Virginia, he was arrested,
his baggage examined, and it Was found that he had in
his valise some seven quarts or more of whisky. The
particulars show clearly that the evidence will be that
he had no intention of leaving the train at Lynchburg or
at any other point in Virginia and that his sole intention
was to carry the liquor with him into the State of North
Carolina to be there used as a beverage."
In addition to these facts we observe that the bill of
particulars contained this recital:
"The charge in the indictment that the defendant
caused to be transportedliquor to Lynchburg, in the State
of Virginia, has no other foundation than the fact that
he was arrested while the train was stopped at the railroad station in Lynchburg, Virginia, and while he was en
route to Asheville, North Carolina."
The bill stated besides, that the accused was traveling
on -a through ticket from Baltimore to Asheville and return.
Under this state of facts we think the court was clearly
right in quashing the indictment, as we are of opinion
that there is no ground for holding that the prohibition
of the statute against transporting liquor in interstate,
comunerce "into any State or Territory the laws of which
State or Territory prohibit the manufacture," etc., includes the mcvemnt in interstate commerce through
such a State to another. No elucidation of the text is
needed to add cogency to this plain meaning, which would
however be reinforced by the context if there were need

MATTERS v. RYAN.
373.

Syllabus.

to resort to it, since the context makes clear that the
word "into," as used in the statute, refers to the State
of destination, and not to the means by which that end
is reached, the movement through one State as a mere
incident of transportation to the State into which it is
shipped.
The suggestion made in argument that although the
personal carriage of liquor through one State as a means
of carrying it beyond into another State violates the
statute, it does not necessarily follow that transportation
by common carrier through a State for a like purpose
would be such violation, because of the more facile opportunity in the one case than in the other for violating the
law of the State through which the liquor is carried, is without merit. In last analysis it but invites, not a construction of the statute as enacted, but an enactment by
constiction of a new and different statute.

A Virmed.

MATTERS v. RYAN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 141.

Submitted January 16, 1919.-Decided April 14, 1919.

The District Court has no jurisdiction in habeas corps to determine
and award the custody of an infant at the suit of an alien against a
citizen of the State of forum, when the only substantial question is
which of the parties is the mother. P. 377.
The claim that such a case arises under a law of the United States because the infant was imported by the respondent in violation of the.
Inunigration Laws is frivolous. Id.

Ouere: Whether diversity of citizenship with an averment of pecuniary
interest could confer jurisdiction on a federal court in hab-as corpu.
P. 378.
Reversed.

