OCTOBER. TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

the latter of which it is said that "the controlling test of
the statute's application lies in the essential nature of
the work done."
For the reasons stated in this opinion, the movement
as described in the certificate and the essential nature of
the work done, require that the question of the Circuit
Court, of Appeals be answered in the affirmative.

DARLING v. CITY OF NEWPORT NEWS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF VIRGINIA.
No. 600.

Argued April 15, 1919.-Decided April 28, 1919.

Generally speaking, private rights in land under tidal waters are
subject to the right of the State to use such waters as a depository
for sewage. P. 542.
Plaintiff held oyster beds in the tidal waters of Hampton Roads by
leases from the State of Virginia, under whose laws, as long as he
paid rent, he was declared to have the "exclusive right to occupy"
the land for twenty years, subject to any rights of other persons
previously acquired, with the State's guaranty of an "absolute
right" to continue to use and occupy it for that period. Held:
That the grant, construed strictly, with reference to the public
necessity in that vicinity and previous pollution ,of the water, was
subject to the right of the State to authorize the City of Newport
News to discharge its sewage into the Roads, and that the consequent pollution of the plaintiff's oysters was neither (1) a taking of
his property without due process, nor (2) an impairment of his
contract rights, nor (3), (following the state court) a damage in the
sense of the.Virginia constitution, which requires compensation
for property taken or damaged for public use. P. 543.
123 Virginia, 14, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

DARLING P,.
CITY OF NEWPORT NE\.
540.

541

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Maryus Jones and Mr. John Winston Read for
plaintiff in error:
The Virginia statutes give the lessee a property right
(Powell v. Tazewell, 66 Virginia, 786; McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S.391), viz., the absolute and exclusive use
and occupancy of this ground for a period of twenty years,
with the right to renew for another period of twenty years,
upon the same terms and conditions as set out in the
original lease from the State. How then can the State
afterwards grant to the city the authority to take and
destroy this property without providing any compensation whatsoever? It would seem to be plain that such
action not only impairs the obligation of the contract
previously existing (Cooley's Const. Lim., 6th ed., p. 328;
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 136; New Jersey v. Wilson,
7 Cranch, 64), but likewise takes property for public use
without just compensation, which the requirement* of
due process of law in the Fourteenth Amendment forbids.
[Counsel relied particularly upon the case of Huffmire
v. City of Brooklyn, 162 N. Y. 584, as practically identical with this, and upon the dissenting opinion in the court
below, 123 Virginia, 14, and authorities therein cited.]
Mr. J. A. Massie for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought this bill in equity to prevent the City of Newport News from discharging its
sewage in such a way as-to pollute and ruin the plaintiff's
oysters upon his beds under the tidal waters of Hampton
Roads. A demurrer was sustained by the court of fit
instance and on appeal by the Supreme Court of Appeals,
and the bill was dismissed. 123 Virginia, 14. The. material facts are few. The plaintiff holds leases of the beds

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.

Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

from the State. The original ones were made in 1884 and
1885 for twenty years. In 1903, 1905 and 1912 they were
what is called reassigned to the plaintiff by what we understand to have been new leases, by statute to be deemed
continuations of the original leases. In 1896 the City of
Newport News was incorporated with the grant of the
right to build sewers, which the City built in the manner
complained of. The grant, coupled with Acts of 1908,
c. 349, pp. 623, 624, authorizes the present discharge
through Salter's Creek into the tide waters of Hampton
Roads, with the effect alleged. By § 2137 of the Code of
Virginia it is provided that so long as a lessee of oyster
beds continues to pay the rent reserved" he shall have the
exclusive right to occupy said land for a period of twenty
years, subject to such rights, if any, as any other person
or persons may previously have acquired." By §2137a,
originally Act of March 5,1894, c. 743, §10 (2), Acts 1893-4
pp. 840, 847, while he pays rent as required "the state
will guarantee the absolute right to the renter to continue
to use and occupy the same for the period of twenty years
the renter acquired." The bill alleges that if the statutes
purport to authorize the destruction of the plaintiff's
oysters they are contrary to the Constitution of the United
States and specifically to the Fourteenth Amendment.
In the assignment of errors to the Supreme Court of
Appeals the statutes are said also to violate the contract
clause. Article I, § 10. The jurisdiction of this court is
clear.
The fundamental question as to the rights of holders of
land under tide waters does not present the conflict of
two vitally important interests that exists with regard to
fresh water streams. There the needs of water supply
and of drainage compete. Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S.
496, 521, 522. The ocean hitherto has been treated as
open to the discharge of sewage from the cities upon its
shores. Whatever science may accomplish in the future

DARLING v. CITY OF NEWPORT NEWS.
.5O

"543

Opinion of the Court.

we are not aware that it yet has discovered any generally
accepted way of avoiding the practical necessity of so
using the great natural purifying basin. Unless precluded by some right of a neighboring State, such as is
not in question here, or by some act of its own, or of the
United States, clearly a State may authorize a city to
empty its drains into the sea. Such at least would be its
power unless it should create a nuisance that so seriously
interfered with private property as to infringe constitutional rights. And we apprehend that the mere ownership of a tract of land under the salt water would not be
enough of itself to give a right to prevent the fouling of
the water as supposed. The ownership of such land, as
distinguished from the shore, wpuld be subject to the
natural uses of the water. So much may be accepted
from the decisions in Virginia and elsewhere as established
law. Hampton v. Watson, 119 Virginia, 95; Haskell v.
New Bedford, 108 Massachusetts, 208, 214; Marcus Sayre
Co. v. Newark. 60 N. J. Eq. 361; Illinois Central R. .R. Co.
v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387, 459.
The question before us then narrows itself to whether
the State has done any act that precludes it from exercising
what otherwise would be its powers. On that issue we
ihall not inquire more curiously than did the Supreme
Court of Appeals into the statutory warrant for the leases,
'or go into relative dates, but shall assune, for the purposes of decision, that the plaintiff is a lessee and is entitled to the benefit of the clauses that we have quoted
from the Code. But we agree with the court below that
when land is let under the water of Hampton Roads,
even though let for oyster beds, the lessee must be held
to take the risk of the pollution of the water. It cannot
be supposed that for a dollar an-acre, the rent mentioned
in the Code, or whatever other sum the 1laintiff paid,
he acquired a property superior to that risk, or that by.
the mere making of the lease, the State contracted, if it

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

could, against using its legislative power to sanction one
of the very most important public uses of water already
partly polluted, and in the vicinity of half a dozen cities
and towns, to which that water obviously furnished the
natural place of discharge. See Illinois Central R. R. Co.
v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387. Trimble v. Seattle, 231 U. S. 683.
The case is not changed by the'guaranty in § 2137a.
That is directed to the possession of the land, not to the
quality of the water. It is unnecessary to cite the cases
that have affirmed so frequently that the construction
of public grants must be very strict.
The constitution of Virginia, like some others, requires
compensation for property taken or damaged for public
use. Const. 1902, § 58. But this seems to be construed
by the dissenting judge as well as by the court below
as not including damage like this, which would not have
been a wrong even without the act of the legislature.
It is a question that has been subject to much debate.
:-Seel r example, CaledonianRailway v. Walker's Trustees,
7 App. Cas. 259, 293, et seq. Taft v. Commonwealth, 158
Massachusetts, 526, 548. TransportationCo. v. Chicago,
99 U. S. 635, 642. But upon that point we follow the
Supreme Court of the State.
Decree affirmed.

