LANE r. 1)ARLIN(.TO)N.
323.

Syllabus.

v. Anderson, 9 Wall. 56, 65; United States v. Padelford,9
Wall. 531; United States *¢.
Klein, 13 Wall. 128.
The cotton in the present case, unlike that to which the
Act of March 12, 1863, applied, was the subject of a
business enterprise and taken to a market opened by the
United States forces upon the conditions expressed in the
Act of July 2, 1864-that is, that its owners should turn
over to the Government one-fourth of the cotton, or its
money equivalent, which would immediately become the
property of the United States. Cutler v. Kouns, supra.
The conditions in the two situations, therefore, are in
broad contrast and it could not have been the intention
of § 162 to confound the conditions. The section did no
more than remove the bar of limitation of time to sue
that was given by the Act of March 12, 1863. It did not
intend to transfer property that had become that of the
United States.
Judgment affirmed.

LANE, SECRETARY OF TBE INTERIOR, v. DARLINGTON ET AL., TRUSTEES, ESTATE OF
CLAPP.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 219. Argued March 12, 1919.-Decided March 31, 1919.
An official resurvey of the boundary of a patented Mexican' grant, for
the purpose of defining contiguous public land, does. not operate
as an adjudication against the grant owner or otherwise so affect
his rights as to afford him ground for an injunction suit against the
Secretary of the Interior.
6 App. D. C. 465, reversed.
THE ca.se

is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

249 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful, with whom
The Solicitor General was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. F. W. Clements, with whom Mr. Alex. Britton was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTicE. HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the appellees to
restrain the Secretary of the Interior from carrying out a
resurvey of a part of the boundary of a Mexican grant.
The plaintiffs hold the legal title to the grant and the
adjoining land belongs to the United States. The boundary was surveyed by one Hancock and on June 22, 1872,
the grant was patented. A bill to set aside the patent
was dismissed in United States v. Hancock, 133 U. S. 193,
(1890.) Doubts having arisen as to where a portion of
the Hancock line on the northern boundary ran, the Land
Department employed one Perrin to make a resurvey.
It found and refstablished the original monuments
except between Hancock's stations 20 and 25, and attempted to fix the line between these also. In 1901 the
resurvey was approved by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, but in 1902 on an appeal, the Secretary of. the Interior reversed the approval and ordered a
new survey of the line between stations 20 and 25. This
was made by one Sickler and was approved by the Secretary of the Interior on February 28, 1907. On September 5, 1913, the Secretary vacated the Sickler survey and
ordered the refstablishment of the Perrin line. The
present bill to restrain the carrying out of ,this order was
dismissed on motion 1 y the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia but the decree Was reversed and an injunction ordered by the Court of Appeals.
The, bill, of course, is not a bill against the United
States brought on the ground that it is claiming land

LANE i. DARLINGTON.
331.

Opinion of the Court.

belonging to the plaintiffs. The bill does not seek to try
the title. It is brought on the ground that the power of
the Secretary is exhausted, and it may be doubted whether
that is a matter with which the plaintiffs have anything
to do. But however that may be, the whole proceeding
on behalf of the United States is simply an effort to fix,
the boundaries of its own land. It is recognized, it was
recognized when the Perrin survey was set aside,;that the
United States has no authority to \change the Hancock
line; but it has a right for its own prposes to try to find
out where that line runs and the fact that its conclusions
may differ from that of the owners of the Hancock grant
does not diminish that right. So long as the United
States has not conveyed its land it is entitled to survey
and resurvey what it owns and to establish and redstablish
boundaries, as well one boundary as another, the only
limit being that what it thus does for its own information
cannot affect the rights of owners on the other side of the
line already existing in theory of law. If, as the result of
the survey adopted, the United States should give patents for land thought by the plaintiffs to belong to them,
"'the courts can then in the appropriate proceeding determine who has the better title or right. To interfere
now, is to take from the officers of the Land' Department
the functions which the law confides to them and exercise
them by the court." Litchfield v. The Register, 9 Wall.
575, 578. Minnesota v. Lane, 247 U. S.243, 250.
We know of no warrant for the notion that the power
is exhausted by a single exercise of it. Repeated retracement of lines, although, of course, exceptions, are well
known, we believe, to the Land Departmet, as, with the
limitation that we have expressed, there is no reason why
they should not be. The case is different when the act
of the Secretary is directed to a third person, as for instance, the approval of a map of the location of a railroad
over public lands, where the approval operates as a

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Syllabus.

249 U. S.

grant. Noble v. Union River Logging R. R. Co., 147 U. S.
165. See New Orleans v. Paine, 147 U. S. 261, 267. But
this retracing of the Hancock line is not directed to the
plaintiffs, but, as we have said, is an investigation by the
United States on its own account. The plaintiffs gained
no rights by the approval of the Sickler line; they lose
none by the substitution of the Perrin line. These acts
were neither adjudications nor agreements. The plaintiffs' rights were fixed before. Even after land had been
sold with reference to a survey and plat that had been
approved, this Court refused to restrain the Secretary
from making a new survey in Kirwan v. Murphy, 189
U. S. 35. See Lane v. United States ex rel. Mickadiet, 241
U. S. 201, 208. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States,
227 U. S. 355.
We are of opinion that the decision of the Court of
Appeals was wrong.
Decree of the Court of Appeals reversed, with directions
to affirm the decree of the Supreme Court dismissing
the bill.

CAPITOL

COMPANY
TRANSPORTATION
CAMBRIA STEEL COMPANY.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 231.

Argued March 14, 17, 1919.-Decided March 31, 1919.

An owner 1who by personal contract has warranted the seaworthiness
of a vessel, and is also privy to and has knowledge of her unseaworthiness, to which is due a loss of cargo, is not within the Limited
Liability Act of June 26,'1884.
Concurrent findings of two lower courts accepted.
244 Fed. Rep. 95, affirmed.

