LEVY v. SUPERIOR COURT OF SAN, FRANCISCO.

175

Opinion of the Court.

policy and the sum realized by the sale, and that the adjustment upon that basis was correct."
We agree with the views thus expressed and hold that the
method of adjustment pursued by the commissioner, and
affirmed by both courts below, was, under the special circumstances of this case, a proper and correct one.
We have examined the other objections taken to the commissioner's report and are of opinion that they are not well
founded. The decree must be
Affirmed.

LEVY v. SUPERIOR COURT OF SAN FRANCISCO
(Department 9).
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 294. Argued April 26, 1897.-

Decided May 10, 1897.

Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648, followed to the point that
"the

jurisdiction of this court to reexamine the final judgment of a

state court cannot arise from inference, but only from averments so distinct and positive as to place it beyond question that the party bringing
a case here from such court intended to assert a Federal right."
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William A. Maury for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error filed in the Supreme Court of the
State of California a petition, praying, for the reasons therein
stated, that a writ of prohibition be granted against the
Superior Court of the city and county of San Francisco and
the judge thereof, commanding that court and judge to refrain from trying or examining further into the allegations
and issues of fact in a certain pending proceeding therein

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

relating to the estate of Morris iloeflich, deceased. An alternative writ of prohibition having been issued in accordance
with the prayer of the petition, the defendants filed an
answer as well as a demurrer upon the ground that the facts
stated in the petition did not entitle the plaintiff to a writ of
prohibition.
Upon final hearing the writ was denied. From that order
the present writ of error was prosecuted.
From the opinion of the Supreme Court of California it
appears that the proceedings in the Superior Court of San
Francisco, which were called in question by the application
for the writ of prohibition, were taken under and in pursuance to sections 1459 and 1460 of the Civil Code of Procedure
of that State. The opinion says: "Petitioner contends that
these provisions of the code are unconstitutional and void,
and that the proceeding in the Superior Court is, therefore,
without warrant of law. His position is 'that they are obnoxious to several features of the constitution of the State, and
more particularly to section 3 of article I, which provides that
'No person shall . . . be compelled in any criminal case
to be a witness against himself ' ; and to section 19 of the same
article, which provides that 'the right of the people to be
secure in their persons, houses, papers and effects, against
unreasonable seizures and searches, shall not be violated.'
"These two provisions of the constitution are of well-understood significance; they involve like principles, and in considering the objection made may be regarded as one.
"The argument of petitioner is that these sections of the
code referred to are distinctly penal in character, and contemplate. a proceeding which is in its essential nature criminal,
within the meaning of the above provisions of the constitution ; that being a criminal proceeding, petitioner is protected
by the constitution from being compelled to testify against
himself or submit his books and papers in evidence.
"There is no question that if petitioner's premises are correct his conclusion follows necessarily. But his construction
of the provisions in question cannot be sustained. These
provisions have received a construction at the hands of this

LEVY v. SUPERIOR COURT OF SAN FRANCISCO.

177

Opinion of the Court.

court directly at variance with that put upon them by petitioner. Sections 1458 to 1461 of the Code of Civil Procedure
were, prior to the adoption of the codes, a part of the old
probate act, as sections 116 to 119 ; they are a part of the
same article and relate to the same subject which is expressed
in the title as 'embezzlement and surrender of property of the
estate.' " 105 California, 600.
It appears also from the opinion of the Supreme
Court of
the State that the petitioner relied largely in support of his
position upon Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, and Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547.
This writ of error must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court to reexamine the final judgment of the
Supreme Court of California. The plaintiff claimed, in the
state court, that certain provisions of the state enactment
referred to were repugnant to the constitution of California.
But he did not, in the state court, draw in question any statute
of the State upon the ground that it was repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, nor specially set up or claim
in that court any right, title, privilege or immunity under the
Constitution of the United States. Rev. Stat. ยง 709. He
insists, in this court, that the enforcement of the above statutory provisions was a denial of the equal protection of the
laws -a denial forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States. But the record does
not show that he made any such claim in the state court.
The reference in the opinion of that court to the cases of Boyd
v. United States and Counselman v. Hitcheock was for the
purpose of ascertaining the proper construction of certain provisions of the constitution of California, not as defining rights
asserted by the plaintiff under the Constitution of the United
States. From the pleadings in the cause the state court had no
reason to suppose that the plaintiff specially claimed that the
statute in question deprived him of any right secured by the
Constitution of the United States. We said in Oxley Stave
0o. v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648, that "the jurisdiction of
this court to reexamine the final judgment of a state court
cannot arise from inference, but only from averments so disVOL. ci,xvix-

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

tinct and positive as to place it beyond question that the party
bringing a case here from such court intended to assert a Federal right." See also Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co. v.
City of Louisville, 166 U. S. 709. If the plaintiff intended to
claim that the statute in question was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, he should have so declared.
Writ of error dismissed.

STONE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
-Decided
No. 265. Submitted April 2,189T.

May 10, 189T.

The United States court in the District of Washington has jurisdiction of
an action brought by the United States against a defendant, found there,
to recover for timber unlawfully cut from lands of the United States in
Idaho.
It is no defence against such action that the defendant was indicted criminally for cutting such timber and was acquitted.
The ruling of the court about the challenges are without merit.
The provision in the act of March 3, 1875, c. 152, that the railroad companies therein provided for have "the right to take from the public
lands adjacent to the line of said road material," etc., means lands in
proximity, contiguous to, or near the road.
As between the Government and a settler, the title to public land until the
conditions of the law are fulfilled remains in the United States, but in
the meantime if the settler is engaged in improving the land as required
by law and disposes of any surplus timber without intent to defraud the
Government, and the purchaser buys the timber under the belief that
there is no intent or purpose to defraud the Government, the sale is lawful and the purchaser is protected.
The fact that claimants to lands under the homestead and preemption laws
after occupation for a time abandon the lands is not alone proof that
they intended to defraud the Government, although in the meantime they
have cut and sold the timber from the lands during the occupation, but
the jury should judge of the intent of the parties so acting by all the circumstances surrounding each case, and if these circumstances satisfy
the jury that claimants of the land were acting in good faith at the time
they sold the timber, and the purchaser had no reasonable ground to
believe otherwise, then such sale would be lawful.
A general verdict is not a nullity by reason of its being received or recorded
on Sunday.

