DAVIS v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Syllabus.

sons covered by its provisions; that there was no element of
a legal or an equitable claim in their favor against the municipal authorities of the District, but that the act provided for
a gift which was wholly without consideration. The repeal
of the act took away all jurisdiction in the Court of Claims
to proceed further, so far as concerned any rights founded
upon the act so repealed. If there had been no repeal, and
the Court of Claims had, after the filing of the mandate from
this court, proceeded to a new trial of the whole merits of the
original judgment, the case cited by the petitioner, Gaines v.
Rugg, 148 U. S. 228, might be in point. It does not touch the
case upon the facts here presented.
In this case, however, the record originally before us showed
that the petitioner had at one time obtained a judgment for
over a thousand dollars against the District of Columbia upon
a cause of action not founded upon the act of Congress just
repealed. This judgment had been vacated. We do not intimate by this decision that the Court of Claims would not have
jurisdiction to entertain and grant a motion on the part of
petitioner, if he should be so advised, to reinstate that original
judgment. That question is not before us, and we allude to it
simply for the purpose of stating that our decision herein
should not be taken as any expression of opinion adverse to
the granting of a motion such as is above mentioned.
The application for a writ of mandamus is
-Denied.

DAVIS v. MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT

OF SUFFOLK COUNTY,

MASSACIU-

SETTS.
No. 229. Argued and submitted March 25, 1897. - Decided May 10, 1897.

The ordinance of the city of Boston which provides that "no person shall,
in or upon any of the public grounds, make any public address," etc.,
" except in accordance with a permit from the mayor," is not in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States and the first section of the

Fourteenth Amendment thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

IT was charged against the plaintiff in error, in the municipal court of the city of Boston, that "in and upon certain
public grounds of said city, within said district, called the
'common,' '' he "did make a public address, the same not
being then and there in accordance with a permit from the
mayor of said city, against the peace of said Commonwealth,
the form of the statute of said Commonwealth and the revised
ordinance of said city in such cases made and provided."
The ordinance claimed to be violated was section 66 of the
revised ordinances of the city of Boston, (1893,) and reads as
follows:
" SEc. 66. No person shall, in or upon any of the public
grounds, make any public address, discharge any cannon or
firearm, expose for sale any goods, wares or merchandise,
erect or maintain any booth, stand, tent or apparatus for the
purposes of public amusement or show, except inaccordance
with a permit from the mayor."
The proceedings were removed to the Superior Court of the
county of Suffolk, where the accused renewed a motion which
he had interposed in the municipal court to quash the complaint. The grounds assigned in support of this motion were
seven in number, and,' among other objections, it was substantially asserted that the ordinance violated rights alleged to
be secured to the accused by the constitution of the State and
by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States. The motion to quash being overruled and an
exception noted, the accused was tried before the court and a
jury.
At the trial the government put in evidence the ordinance
heretofore referred to, and called the attention of the court
to sections 35 and 39 of c. 448 of the'acts passed by the legislature of Massachusetts in the year 1854, which sections are
as follows:
"SEc. 35. All other powers heretofore by law vested in the
town of Boston or in the inhabitants thereof as a municipal
corporation, or in the city council of the city of Boston, shall
be and hereby are continued to be vested in the mayor, aldermen and common council of the said city, to be exercised by

DAVIS v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

concurrent vote, each board, as hereby constituted, having a
negative upon the proceedings of the other, and the mayor
having a veto power as hereinafter provided.
"More especially they shall have power to make all such
needful and salutary by-laws and ordinances not inconsistent
with the laws of this Commonwealth as towns by the laws of
this Commonwealth have power to make and establish, and
to annex penalties not exceeding fifty dollars for the breach
thereof, which by-laws and ordinances shall take effect and
be in force from and after the time therein respectively
limited without the sanction or confirmation of any court or
other authority whatsoever."
"SEc. 39. The city council shall have the care and superintendence of the public buildings, and the care, custody and
management of all the property of the city, with power to
lease or sell the same except the common and Faneuil Hall.
And the said city council shall have power to purchase property, real or personal, in the name and for the use of the city,
whenever its interest or convenience may in their judgment
require it."
In behalf of the accused, eleven instructions were requested
to be given to the jury, all of which were refused, and exceptions were reserved to such refusal. But one of these
requested instructions set up alleged rights under the Constitution of the United States, as follows:
"10. That said ordinance, and the proceedings under said
ordinance, and in enforcement thereof, are in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, and the first section of
the Fourteenth Amendment thereof; that the power given
to the mayor of the city of Boston by said ordinance is in
derogation of the rights secured to the defendant by said
amendment, and said ordinance is null and void."
There was a verdict of guilty. The exceptions taken during the trial were certified to the Supreme Judicial Court of
the Commonwealth, where they were overruled. 162 Mass.
510. The Superior Court sentenced Davis to pay a. fine and
the costs of the prosecution, and the cause was brought here
for review.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. James F. Pickering for plaintiff in error submitted
on his brief.
Mr.Itosea Al. Knowlton, Attorney General of Massachusetts, for defendant in error. Mr. George C. Travis was on
his brief.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
In the brief of counsel for plaintiff in error many presumed
errors are elaborately discussed, all of which when analyzed
rest on the assumption that there was a right in the plaintiff in error to use the common of the city of Boston free
from legislative or municipal control or regulation. It is
argued that" Boston Common is the property of the inhabitants of
the city of Boston, and dedicated to the use of the people
of that city and the public in many ways, and the preaching
of the gospel there has been, from time immemorial to a
recent period, one of these ways. For the making of this
ordinance in 1862 ahd its enforcement against preaching
since 1885, no reason whatever has been or can be shown."
The record, however, contains no evidence showing the
manner in which the ordinance in question had been previously enforced, nor does it include any proof whatever as
to the nature of the ownership in the common from which
it can be deduced that the plaintiff in error had any particular
right to use the common apart from the general enjoyment
which he was entitled, as a citizen, to avail of along with
others and to the extent only which' the law permitted. On
the contrary, the legislative act and the ordinance passed
in pursuance thereof, previously set out in the statement
of facts, show an assumption by the State of control over
the common in question.. Indeed, -the Supreme- Judicial
Court, in affirming the conviction, placed its conclusion upon
the express ground that the common 'was absolutely under
the control of the legislature, which, in the exercise of its

DAVIS v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

discretion, could limit the use to the extent deemed by it
advisable, and could and did delegate to the municipality the
power to assert such authority. The court said:
"There is no evidence before us to show that the power
of the legislature over the common is less than its power
over any other park dedicated to the use of the public or
over public streets the legal title to which is in a city or
town. -Lincoln v. Boston, 148 Mass. 578, 580. As representative of the public it may and does exercise control over
the use which the public may make of such places, and it
may and does delegate more or less of such control to the
city or town immediately concerned. For the legislature
absolutely or conditionally to forbid public speaking in a
highway or public park is no more an infringement of the
rights of a member of the public than for the owner of a
private house to forbid it in his house. When no proprietary right interferes the legislature may end the right of
the public to enter upon the public place by putting an end
to the dedication to public uses. So it may take the less
step of limiting the public use to certain purposes. See
Dillon Mun. Corp. secs. 393, 407, 651, 656, 666; Brooklyn
Park Commissioners v. Armstrong, 45 N. Y. 234, 243, 214.
"If the legislature had power under the constitution to pass
a law in the form of the present ordinance, there is no doubt
that it could authorize the city of Boston to pass the ordinance, and it is settled by the former decision, Commonwealth
v.. Davis, 140 Mass. 485, that it has done so."
It is, therefore, conclusively determined there was no right
in the plaintiff in error to use the common except in such
mode and subject to such regulations as the legislature in its
wisdom may have deemed proper to prescribe.
The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States
does not destroy the power of the States to enact police regulations as to the subjects within their control, Barbler v. Connolly, 113 U. S.27, 31; .Minneapolis & St. Louis Railway Co.
v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26, 29; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S.
657; Jones v. Brim, 165 U. S. 180, 182, and does not have
the effect of creating a particular and personal right in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

citizen to use public property in defiance of the constitution
and laws of the State.
The assertion that although it be conceded that the power
.existed in the State or municipality to absolutely control the
use of the common, the particular ordinance in question is
nevertheless void because arbitrary and unreasonable in that
it vests in the mayor the power to determine when he will
grant a permit, in truth, whilst admitting on the one hand
the power to control, on the other denies its existence. The
right to absolutely exclude all right to use, necessarily includes
the authority to determine under what circumstances such use
may be availed of, as the greater power contains the lesser.
The finding of the court of last resort of the State of Massachusetts being that no particular right was possessed by the
plaintiff in error to the use of the common, is in reason, therefore, conclusive of the controversy which the record presents,
entirely aside from the fact that the power conferred upon the,
chief executive officer of the city of Boston by the ordinance
in question may be fairly claimed to be a mere administrative
function vested in the mayor in order to effectuate the purpose for which the common was maintained and by which its
use was regulated. In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526, 536, 537.
The plaintiff in error cannot avail himself of the right granted
by the State and yet obtain exemption from the lawful regulations to which this right on his part was subjected by law.
-Afirmed.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILROAD
POIRIER.

ERROR TO THE COURT
No. 295.

OF APPEALS

COMPANY

"qOR THE NINTH

Argued April 27, 28, 1897. -Decided

v.

CIRCUIT.

May 10, 1897.

A brakeman on a regular train of a railroad and the conductor of a wild train
on the same road are fellow-servants, and the railroad company is not
responsible for injuries happening to the former by ,'eason of a collision
of the two trains, caused by the negligence of the latter, and by his disregard of the rules of the company.

