WARNER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Syllabus.

to be had at the office of the officer charged with -the duties;
Andes v. Ely, 158 U. S. 312, 323 ; and a notice to all property
holders of the time and place at which the assessment is to be
made is all that "due process" requires in respect to the matter of notice in tax proceedings. As said in ilagarv. Reclamation -DistrictNo. 108, 111 U. S. 701, 710:
"The law in prescribing the time when such complaints will
be heard, gives all the notice required, and the proceeding by
which the valuation is determined, though it may be followed,
if the tax be not paid, by a sale of the delinquent's property,
See also Bell's Gap Railroad v.
is due process of law."
Pennsylvania, supra; Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345;
Palmer v. NoMahon, 133 U. S. 660, 669; Lent v. Tillson,
140 U. S. 316; Paulsen v. Portland,149 U. S. 30.
These are the only matters requiring notice. We see no
error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
and it is
Ajflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS did not hear the argument or take part
in the decision of this case.

WARNER v. NEW ORLEANS.
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 282. Argued April 22, 189T. -Decided

May 24, 189T.

Cross v. Evans, 167 U. S. 60, as to the certification of questions to this
court by the court of appeal, approved and applied.
The city of New Orleans, under the warranties, express and implied, contained in the contract of sale of June 7, 1876, by which it acquired the
property and franchise of the Canal Company from Van Norden, and
under the averments in the bill, which are set forth in the statement of
the case, is estopped from pleading against the complainant the issuance of bonds to retire $1,672,105.21 of dralnagd warrants, issued prior
to said sale, as a discharge of its obligation to account for drainage
funds, collected on private property, and as a discharge from Its own
liability to that fund as assessee of the streets and squares: and, accord-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
ingly thefirst question asked by the Court of Appeals must be answered
in the affirmative.
The second question, inquiring whether the decision in Peake v. New
Orleans, 139 U. S. 342, should be held to apply to the facts in this case,
and operate to defeat the complainant's action, puts the facts of the one
case over against the facts of the other, and asks this court to search the
record in each case to see if one operates to bar the other, and practically submits the whole case, instead of certifying a distinct question of
law, and therefore does not come within the rule in respect to certifying
distinct questions of law.

THIs case comes on questions certified by the Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit. The statement of facts, the questions and the order of the court, as found in the record, are as
follows:
"The complainant, a citizen of the State of New York, filed
his bill in said Circuit Court against the city of New Orleans,
alleging substantially as follows:
"By act approved March 18, 1858, the legislature of the
State of Louisiana undertook to provide for draining and reclaiming portions of the parishes of Orleans and Jefferson.
The work was to be accomplished through boards of drainage
commissioners appointed for each of the three districts into
which the territory was divided.
"The funds to pay for work were to be raised as follows:
Whepever the several boards were prepared to drain their districts they were required to cause a plan to be made of the
proposed work, designating its subdivisions and the names of
the proprietors of the land, etc. This plan was to be filed in
the mortgage office, of which notice was required to be published once a week for four consecutive weeks. At the expiration of the notice the boards were to apply to a court specified
'in the act, which was required to decree that the district was
subject to a first mortgage lien and privilege for such an
amount as might be assessed upon the property. After the
tax had been levied the court was authorized to render judgment against the several property owners for the'amount due
by them.
"By another act approved March 17, 1859, the boards were
authorized to issue bonds to the extent of $300,000 for each

WkRNER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the Case.

district for the purpose of carrying on the work, redeemable
out of drainage taxes.
"By an act approved March 1, 1861, the boards were authorized to apportion the amount which each taxpayer should be
required to pay yearly to meet the annual interest and instalments due on the bonds. Other and more stringent provisions'
for the collection of these taxes were also made in the act,
such as authorizing judgments to be rendered against the taxpayer and his property and the issuance of execution as in
ordinary cases. The boards of commissioners for the first'
and second districts filed plans of the work they proposed to
do, and obtained judgments decreeing the lands in those districts to be subject to liens and privileges for the proposed
work; they levied assessments payable in instalments and obtained judgments for the amount of the rolls, and some money
was collected thereon.
"By act 30 of 1871 the several boards of drainage commissioners were abolished and the work of drainage was transferred to
the Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship Canal Company, but
the board of administrators of the city of New Orleans for all
,other purposes was made their successor, and was subrogated
'to all moneys, assessments and other assets then belonging to
them, and was required to collect such tax and assessments
and to make and collect an additional tax of two mills per
superficial foot on all lands where no tax had been levied for
drainage purposes, and that all collections from these sources
be placed to the credit of said Mississippi and Mexican Gulf
Ship and Canal Company-and held as a fund to be applied
only to the drainage of the city of New Orleans and Carrollton.
"By the eighth section of the act it was made the duty of
the administrator of accounts to draw a warrant on the administrator of finance against this fund for the payment of amounts
due for all work done by that company.
"The board of administrators entered on the duties imposed
on them under this act, procured the mortgages and liens to
be decreed, assessments to be levied, and judgments to be rendered for the taxes assessed in the third and fourth drainage
districts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

"The whole amount of assessments that came under their
administration was $1,699,637.37, and of this $1,003,342.28.
was assessed against individuals and $696,394.30 against the
city of New Orleans on the area of her streets and squares.
"The work was continued under this act until 1876 by
Warner Van Norden, who had become transferee of the said
Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship Canal Company. He excavated some 5,000,000 cubic yards of earth and completed
two thirds of the plan of drainage, when act No. 16, of February 24, 1876, was passed for the purpose of authorizing the
city of New Orleans to assume exclusive control of all drainage work, and, if she desired it or deemed it advisable, to
purchase from said canal company and its transferee, Van
Norden, all the tools, boats and apparatus appertaining to
drainage work and the franchise of the company, upon an
appraisement to be made by appraisers to be appointed by the
city council. The act further provided that the price should
be paid by the city of New Orleans in drainage warrants in
the same form and manner as those theretofore issued under
act 30 of 1871.
"Pursuant to this act the city council caused the property
to be appraised. The valuation was fixed at $300,000, and on
the 7th of June, 1876, a formal act of sale and transfer was
executed between Warner Van Norden and said canal company and said city of New Orleans, by which the former
made a transfer of the drainage plant and franchise for said
amount, payable in drainage warrants,- and the city covenanted 'not to obstruct or impede, but, on the contrary, to
facilitate, by all lawful means, the collection of drainage
assessments, as provided by law, until said warrants have been
fully paid, it being well understood and agreed by and between said parties thereto that collection of drainage tax
assessments should not be diverted from the liquidation of
said warrants and expenses under any pretext whatsoever
until the full and final payment of the same.'
"Up to the date of this sale the city had collected on the
assessments against private property $229,922.89, leaving
$1,469,714.47 outstanding and uncollected, of which amount

WARNER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Statement of the Case.

the city owed $696,394.30 as assessed against the streets and
squares. The drainage warrants issued priorto December 31,
1874, had been paid or taken up before said sale by the
issue of bonds of the 'drainage series' to the amount of
$1,672,105.21 under authority of act 73, approved April 26,
1872. The thirteenth section of this act, after providing for
the issue of said bonds, further provided that 'all taxes collected for drainage and not required for payment of drainage
warrants shall be devoted to the purchase from the lowest
bidder of bonds issued for drainage.'
"Complainant sues on three of the drainage warrants, of
$2000 each, given for the purchase price of the drainage plant
and franchise sold to the city of New Orleans as above set
forth. The bill, after setting out the foregoing state of facts
in more amplified form, avers: (1.) That the city of New
Orleans, after she became possessed of the drainage franchise,
sold some of the drainage machinery and suffered the rest to
become rotten and valueless and abandoned all work of drainage; that by reason of the non-completion of the drainage
system the Supreme Court of Louisiana decided the drainage
taxes could not be collected, inasmuch as no benefit had been
conferred on the property. (2.) That the city by various
means impeded the collection of drainage taxes, and by her
conduct, ordinances and proclamations encouraged and induced
people to refuse to pay the assessments, by reason whereof
the drainage assessments due by private persons have become
valueless. (3.) That the city will plead that she has been
discharged from all liability to account for the drainage taxes
she has collected, or which she ought to have collected but
has wasted, as well as her own indebtedness, by the issuance
and delivery, between May 10, 1872, and December 31, 1874,
of drainage bonds under authority of the act 73 of 1872. (4.)
That the city had never claimed, prior to the purchase of said
property and franchise, that the issuance of said bonds operated as such discharge, and made no such plea, save in the case
of Peake v. New Orleans,filed March 19, 1888. (5.) That the
act of 1876 was an authority for the city to make said purchase,
as well as a legislative recognition that said drainage fund had

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

not been discharged by the issue of said bonds, and was an
appropriation and dedication of so much thereof as was necessary to pay the purchase warrants without offset or impairment. (6.) That the contract of sale was entered into by Van
Norden in consideration of the provisions of said act of 1876
and its effects on his rights and remedies; that neither at the
time of entering into the contract of sale nor when the warrants
were delivered in discharge of the price did the city disclose to
him that she would claim the issuance of said bonds as' a discharge of her liability to account for and apply the drainage
taxes, including those due by herself, to the payment of said
purchase warrants; that he was ignorant that the city would
claim such discharge, and would not have entered into said
contract if he had been advised that any such claim would be
made as aforesaid; that Van Norden has expressly and by a
writing annexed to and made part of the bill subrogated complainant to all his rights and remedies growing out of said
sale (R., p. 145); the complainant therefore avers that the
city is estopped in equity and good conscience from pleading
or maintaining such defence.
"The bill closes with a prayer for an accounting of said
drainage fund, and especially that the amount due by the
city as assessee of the streets and squares be decreed to be
a trust fund in the hands of the city applicable to the payment of said drainage warrants.
"Defendant demurred to the bill, especially asserting that
the decision in the case of Peake v. New Orleans, 139 U. S.
342, is decisive of the issues in this case. The demurrer having been sustained by the Circuit Court, the complainant has
removed the case to this court for review, assigning, among
others, error in this respect.
"And it appearing that the suit of said Peake was based
on drainage warrants given for work, all dated July 9, 1875,
complainant insists that they were issued while the city was
an involuntary and non-contractual trustee, and in this respect
differ from those involved in this case, which were issued by
the city as a voluntary and contractual trustee under the permissive authority of the legislature, and that both on principle

WARNER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Counsel for Parties.

and owing to the estoppel pleaded in the bill his rights are not
affected by said decision.
"The case having been argued in this court on the errors
assigned, and this court desiring the instruction of the honorable the Supreme Court for the proper decision of the questions arising herein touching the matter of estoppel aforesaid
and the application of the decision of the Supreme Court to
the issues involved in this suit, it is ordered that the following
questions and propositions of law be certified to the Supreme
Court in accordance with the provisions of section 6 of the
act entitled 'An act to establish Circuit Courts of Appeal
and define and regulate in certain cases the jurisdiction of
the courts, of the United States, and for other purposes,'
approved March 3, 1891, to wit:
"First. Is the city of New Orleans under the warranties,
express and implied, contained in the contract of sale of
June 7, 1876, by which she acquired the property and franchise from Warner Van Norden, and under the averments of
the bill, estopped from pleading against the complainant the
issuance of bonds to retire $1,672,105.21 of drainage warrants,
issued prior to said sale, as a discharge of her obligation to
account for drainage funds collected on private property and
as a discharge from her own liability to that fund as assessee
of the streets and squares?
"Second. Should the decision in the case of Peake v. New
Orleans, 139 U. S. 342, be held to apply to the facts of this
case and operate to defeat the complainant's action?
" It is further ordered that a copy of the printed record
and the several acts of the legislature, together with copies
of the briefs on file in this court, be sent to the honorable
the Supreme Court with the transcript certifying the aforesaid questions."
Mr. Wheeler 11. Peekham and Mr. William Grant for
Warner. Mr. Richard DeGray and Mr. J. D. Rouse were
on Mr. Grant's brief.
Mr. Branch K Miller for New Orleans.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
We had occasion in the rec~nt case of Cross v. Evans,
ante, 60, to comment on the practice of certifying questions,
in such manner as to practically submit.the entire case to this
court for consideration. In addition to what was said in the
opinion then .filed, it may be proper to observe that the purpose of the act of 1891, creating the Courts of Appeal, was to
vest final jurisdiction as to certain classes of cases in the courts
then created, and this in order that the docket of this court
might be relieved, and it be enabled with more promptness
to dispose of the cases directly coming to it. In order to
guard against any injurious results which might flow from
having nine appellate courts, acting independently of each
other, power was given to this court to bring before it for
decision by certiorari any case pending in either of those
courts. In that way it was believed that uniformity of ruling
might be secured, as well as the disposition of cases whose
gravity and importance rendered the action of the tribunal of
last resort peculiarly desirable, but the power of determining
what cases should be so brought up was vested in this court,
and it was not intended to give to any one of the Courts of
Appeal the right to avoid the responsibility cast upon it by
statute by transmitting any case it saw fit to this court for
decision. If such practice were tolerated it is easy to perceive that the purpose of the act might be defeated, and the
Courts of Appeal, by transferring cases here, not only relieve
themselves of burden, but also crowd upon this court the very
cases which it was the intent of Congress they should finally
determine. It is true power was given to the Courts of
Appeal to certify questions; but it is only " questions or propositions of law" which they are authorized to certify. And
such questions must be, as held in the case just cited, "distinct
questions or propositions of law, unmixed with questions of
fact or of mixed law and fact." It is not always easy to draw
the line, for, in order- to present a distinct question of law, it
may sometimes be necessary to present many facts upon

WARNER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

which that question is based. But care must always be taken
that under the guise of certifying questions the Courts of Appeal do not transmit the whole case to us for consideration.
Here, in addition to the long preliminary statement of facts,
the court ordered up the entire record, and counsel in their
briefs, assuming that the whole case is before us, have entered
into a discussion of many questions, such as the effect of certain limitations in the constitution of Louisiana, which may
have been in the case as it was presented to the Court of
Appeals, but cannot be found in any distinct question of law
certified to us.
With these preliminary observations, we pass to the consideration of the questions certified, or so much thereof as are
distinct questions of law. The first question is one of estoppel. In order to a full understanding of it a brief review of
the facts is essential; and for these facts we look simply to
the statement prepared by the Court of Appeals, and not
to the bill and exhibits, copies of which it ordered to be sent
to this court. From that statement it appears that in 1858
the State of Louisiana undertook the work of draining and
reclaiming portions of the parishes of Orleans and Jefferson;
that this work was to be done under the direction and control
of boards of drainage commissioners appointed for the several
districts into which the territory was divided. Provision was
made for assessing the cost and expenses of the work upon
the property benefited. The work continued under these auspices until 1871, when, by an act of the legislature, the boards
of drainage commissioners were abolished and the work of
drainage transferred to a canal company. But the duty of collecting the assessments was imposed upon the board of administrators of the city of New Orleans, and the administrator
of accounts was directed to draw warrants on the administrator of finance against the drainage fund for the payments
of amounts due for the work. Warner Van, Norden became
the transferee of the canal company, and completed about
two thirds of the work prior to February 24, 1876, when an
act was passed authorizing the city of New Orleans to assume
exclusive control of the drainage work, and, if it desired, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

purchase from the canal company and its transferee all the
boats, tools and apparatus pertaining to the work, and also
the franchise of the company. This act further provided that
the price should be paid by the city in drainage warrants
in the same form and manner as those theretofore issued.
The whole amount of assessments was $1,699,637.37. Of this,
$1,003,342.28 was assessed against individuals, and the balance against the city of New Orleans on the area of its streets
and squares. Of the assessment against private property the
city had up to this time collected $229,922.89. The drainage
warrants issued prior to December 31, 1874, had been paid or
taken up before this act of 1876 by the issue of city bonds, to
the amount of $1,672,105.21, under authority of an act approved April 26, 1872. The city elected to make the purchase
of the property of the canal company and its transferee. It
was appraised at $300,000, and on June 7, 1876, a formal sale
and transfer was executed by the company and its transferee
to the city for the amount named, payable in drainage warrants, and the city covenanted "not to obstruct or impede,
but, on the contrary, to facilitate, by all lawful means the
collection of drainage assessments, as provided by law, until
said warrants have been fully paid, it being well understood
and agreed by and between said parties thereto that collection
of drainage tax assessments should not be diverted from the
liquidation of said warrants 'and expenses under any pretext
whatsoever until the full and final payment of the same."
It will be seen that the bonds issued by the city more than
covered in amount the assessments against its streets and public grounds and the amount it had collected from private proplerty, and all this had taken place prior to the purchase of the
property from the canal company and its transferee. Now,
after the city had assumed exclusive control of the work, after
it had voluntarily. purchased from the canal company and its
transferee' their property and had given these warrants, payable out of the drainage fund, it sold some of the drainage
machinery, suffered the rest to become rotten and valueless,
and abandoned the work of drainage, so that by reason of the
non-completion of the drainage system, as held by the Supreme

WARNER v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of the State, drainage taxes could not be collected,
inasmuch as no benefit had been conferred upon the property.
Not only that; it by various means impeded the collection
of the taxes, and by conduct, ordinances and proclamations
encouraged and induced the people to refuse to pay the
assessments, whereby those due by private persons became
valueless.
And now the question is whether the city is not estopped
to plead in defence of liability on these drainage warrants the
fact of the prior issue of bonds to a larger amount than that
assessed against the areas of its streets and squares and collected from private property. We think this question must
be answered in the affirmative. The city, in respect to the
purchase of this property from the canal company and its
transferee, and in the obligations assumed by the warrants
issued, acted voluntarily. It was not, in reference to these
matters, as it was to those considered in Peake v. New Orleans,
139 U. S. 342, a compulsory trustee, but a voluntary contractor;
and the proposition which we affirm is, that one who purchases
property, contracting to pay for it'out of a particular fund, and
issues warrants therefor payable out of that fund - a fund yet
partially to be created and created by the performance by him
of a statutory duty - cannot deliberately abandon that duty,
take active steps to prevent the further creation of the fund,
and then, there being nothing in the fund, plead in defence to
a liability on the warrants drawn on that fund that it had
prior to the purchase paid off obligations theretofore created
against the fund. Whatever equity may do in setting off
against all warrants drawn before this purchase from the
canal company and its transferee the bonds issued by the city
(and in respect to that matter we can only refer to Peake v,'
New Orleans, supra), it by no means follows that the city can
draw new warrants on the fund in payment for property which
it voluntarily purchases, and then abandon the work by which
alone the fund could be made good, resort to means within its
power to prevent any payments of assessments into that fund,
and thus, after violating its contract promise not to obstruct
or impede, but on the contrary to facilitate by all lawful

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

means, the collection of the assessments, plead its prior issue
of bonds as a reason for evading any liability upon the
warrants. One who purchases property and pays for it in
warrants drawn upon a particular fund, the creation of which
depends largely on his own action, is under an implied obligation to do whatever is reasonable and fair to make that fund
good. He cannot certainly so act as to prevent the fund
being made good, and then say to his vendor, you must look
to the fund and not to me. We are clear in the opinion,
therefore, that the first question must be answered in the
affirmative.
With reference to the second, we are of the opinion that it
does not come within the rule in respect to certifying distinct
questions of law. It invites an inquiry into all the matters
considered in the case of Peake v. New Orleans (and there
were many), and asks whether the matters there decided apply
to the facts of this case and operate to defeat the plaintiff's
action. In other words, the question puts the facts of the one
case over against the facts of the other, and asks us to search
the record in each to see whether the one case operates to bar
the other. Surely that is practically submitting the whole
case instead of certifying a distinct question of law. Our
decision, therefore, is that
The frst question must be answered in the afirmative,
and the second we decline to answer, and it is ordered
accordingly.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE PEcKHAm took no
part in the decision of this case.

