OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

The learned solicitor general in his brief in this case, with
most commendable candor and fairness, has said:
"But we feel constrained to say from an analysis of the evidence certified in this record, that while it was left to the
jury to ascertain the facts established by the evidence, the
mind is oppressed with a painful doubt as to the soundness of
the verdict returned by the jury."
And in speaking of the refusal of the court to permit
answers to be given to the questions asked, as above recited,
counsel for the Government also says in his brief:
"No reason is given for the exclusion of these questions
beyond that reiterated in the objection, that they were
'incompetent, irrelevant and immaterial.'"
He frankly says that in his opinion this evidence was admissible, and we have no doubt that it was.
The judgment must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the District Court of
Alaska with instructions to set aside the verdict and grant
a new trial.

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
MORTON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
Nos. 205, 599.

Argued March 9,10, 1891.-- Decided May 24, 189T.

Under the laws of the Indies lands not actually allotted to settlers remained

the property of the king, to be disposed of by him or by those on whom
he might confer that power; and as, at the date of the Treaty of Guadalupe IHidalgo, neither the municipalities nor the settlers within them,
whose rights are the subject of controversy in these suits, could have
demanded the legal title of the former Government, the Court of Private
Land Claims was not empowered to pass the title to either,- but it is for

the political department of the Government to deal with any equitable
rights which may be involved.
United States v. Santa F6, 165 U. S. 175, involved the same considerations
in its disposition as those presented on this record, and its reasoning and
conclusions are to be taken as decisive here.

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was a petition filed by Julian Sandoval and others in
the Court of Private Land Claims for the confirmation under
the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat. 854, of what was
known as the San Miguel del Bado grant in the Territory of
New Mexico, containing 315,300 acres. It was alleged that
the grant was made November 25, 1794, by Governor Chacon
to Lorenzo Marquez for himself and in the name of fifty-one
men accompanying him, ana copies of the original application; of the decree of the governor thereon; of the report,
November 26, 1794, of the alcalde Ortiz; and of the report
of the alcalde Pino, in 1803, hereinafter set forth, were
attached to the petition as exhibits.
Petitioners averred that Ortiz gave juridical possession of
the grant to Marquez and his associates, and that they, soon
after, "formed a settlement thereon, as required by the terms
and conditions of the said grant, known as the town of San
Miguel del Bado, on the present site of the town of that name,
within the limits of the said grant, the said settlement being
formed, as your petitioners are informed and believe, as a
villa, with a corporation council, mayor, aldermen, attorney
and secretary, and that the said settlement of San Miguel del
Bado continued as a municipal corporation up to the time the
Territory of New Mexico was ceded to the United States, the
said town of San Miguel del Bado, embracing within its jurisdiction all of the land within the exterior boundaries of the
said grant heretofore described, and the said grant, being, as
your petitioners are informed and believe, given to the said
settlement of San Miguel del Bado upon the condition that
the said settlement should be formed and that the said tract
should be in common not only to the petitioners, but to all
other settlers who might join them in the future."
That the grant has since been occupied by the original
settlers, their descendants and assigns, and others who have
become part of that settlement, or moved upon the grant and
formed other settlements within its exterior boundaries, or
built isolated residences and settled thereon, and "has always
been recognized as being'a concession made to the town or
settlement of San Miguel del Bado and all other settlers who

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

might join them in the future, and from thence hitherto as
being the property of all the settlers within the exterior boundaries of the said grant, to be held and used by them in common, except as to such parts and portions as from time to
time have been set apart in severalty to individual settlers
thereon.
"That there is now no municipal corporation existing
within the limits of the said grant of San Miguel del Bado,
but all of the settlers upon the said grant, whether residing
within the town of San Miguel del Bado or in other towns
upon the said grant, or in isolated places thereon, as a community, have succeeded to all of the lands of the said grant,
which have not, by prescription and by assignment of alcaldes
under the original concession, and subsequent alcaldes, become
the property of private individuals and held in severalty, and
that the said community, embracing all of said settlers, have
managed and controlled the lands of said grant by and through
committees, appointed in popular assemblies held for that purpose, since their said municipal corporation, under the laws of
Spain and Mexico, was abandoned. That the said individuals
herein named as petitioners are the present duly authorized
committee of the settlers on the said grant, and make this
petition for and in behalf of themselves and all other settlers
within the exterior boundaries of the said grant."
Certain proceedings were set forth as having been had on
March 18, 1857, before the surveyor general of the Territory
of New Mexico on a petition "made for and in the name
of the inhabitants of the settlements of La Cuesta, San Miguel, Las Mulas, El Pueblo, Puerticita, San Jos6, El Gusano
and Bernal, the said settlements existing at the date thereof
within the limits of the said grant and the inhabitants thereof
comprising at that time all the settlers upon the said grant,
the said petition reciting that the inhabitants of said settlements claimed said grant as being the legal heirs'and successors of Lorenzo Marquez and fifty-one other persons, and that
they had been up to that date in continual possession of the
said grant"; also a report made to Congress on November
13, 1879, and a survey made of the tract, July 26, 1880, it

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
Statement of the Case.

being stated that "no action has ever been taken by Congress in reference to the said San Miguel del Bado grant,
either looking to its confirmation or rejection."
The prayer of the petition was as follows:
"Your petitioners, therefore, claim the said San Miguel
del Bado grant as bounded, surveyed and described as hereinbefore set forth, and -pray that the validity of their claim
may be inquired into and decided by this court and that the
said grant may be confirmed to your petitioners and all of
the present settlers and residents upon the said grant, as
being made to the town of San Miguel del Bado for the use
and benefit of all of said settlers, and for the benefit of the
owners in severalty of the lots and parcels of land within its
limits."
The United States answered that the petition of Lorenzo
Marquez of November, 1794, was not for, nor intended to
be for, the exclusive use, benefit and behoof of said Lorenzo
Marquez or any one else; that if Ortiz put Marquez and his
co-petitioners in possession of the property, it was not intended that said "Marquez and his co-petitioners should have
te exclusive possession of the whole of the property described
in the boundaries set forth in his alleged petition, but that
the same was for the use and benefit of said Marquez, his
co-petitioners, and any and all citizens without lands who
might thereafter settle upon the same; and further, that the
entrances and exits, waters and pastures, and the use of the
land unappropriated by individuals in severalty, should be
common."
The answer further averred that the alcalde Pino was
directed by Governor Chacon in March, 1803, to ascertain
whether the terms of the grant had been complied with, and
that he reported March 12 that he "found fifty-eight heads
of families occupying the same; that in obedience to his said
instructions he caused an amicable partition among them to
be made, and assigned to each one the land he was so
occupying and cultivating; that upon the return of said
report the same was approved and confirmed by said Governor Chacon on the 30th day of March, 1803, to the resi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

dents of the new town of El Bado, known as San Miguel;
that thereafter, up to the occupation of this country by the
American troops in 1846, under the terms and conditions of
said grant, various parties have moved upon the same, have
occupied and cultivated it, and are holding and occupying,
were and have been recognized ever since, until now there
are a large number of settlements under said grant consisting
of several thousand people, and upon which several towns
have grown up under the form and construction given to the
grant by Governor Chacon in 1803, and under the terms of
the conditions of the pretended possession designated by the
alcalde Ortiz in 1794, which in point of fact was never executed
as alleged and claimed, but was given by Pino in 1803.
"That the names of the settlements are La Cuesta, San
Miguel, Las Mulas, El Pueblo, Puerticita, San Jos6, El Gusano
and Bernal. The defendant is informed and charges the fact
to be that all of these settlements and possessors were recognized by the Spanish Government, and were continued without
interruption or challenge by the Mexican Government, and
were in existence at the time the sovereignty of the United
States was extended over it under the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo, and that no title ever passed, or was intended to
pass, either legal or equitable, against the Spanish or Mexican
Governments, except as to that portion which might be occupied and settled by said Marquez and his fifty-one co-petitioners, and those who might thereafter come in and settle and
occupy the same; and that said claim is not entitled to confirmation for any more than was actually appropriated, occupied and cultivated in severalty prior to 1846 ; and it therefore
says that this plaintiff, if entitled to confirmation of anything,
is entitled to confirmation only of that portion which he actually occupied and possessed under said grant, and that all the
portion of said land which had not been subjected in 1846 to
actual occupancy and cultivation is, and of right ought to be,
public domain."
After the commencement of Sandoval's suit, two others
were instituted, one by Levi P. Morton and the other by
Marquez and others, claiming that Lorenzo Marquez took

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
Statement of the Case.

the title to the entire grant, as the other fifty-one were not
named in the grant, petition or act of possession; and asking
confirmation in their names alone as successors in interest to
Lorenzo. These suits were consolidated with that of Sandoval
and the three heard as one case.
The Court of Private Land Claims held that the act of
partition of 1803 rendered the grantees certain, and dismissed
the petitions of Morton and Marquez; and confirmed the
grant in the name of Lorenzo Marquez and his co-grantees
and all other persons who might have come in and settled
on the grant up to December 30, 1848, Murray, J., dissenting.
The United States and Morton appealed.
The papers referred to in Sandoval's petition, and constituting the expediente, were as follows:
"I, Lorenzo Marquez, resident of this town of Santa-F6, for
myself and in the name of fifty-one men accompanying me,
appear before your excellency, and state that in consideration
of having a very large family, as well myself as those accompanying me, though we have some land in this town, it is not
sufficient for our support, on account of its smallness and the
great scarcity of water, which, owing to the great number of
people, we cannot all enjoy, wherefore we have entered a
tract of land on the Rio Pecos, vacant and unsettled, at the
place commonly called El Vado, and where there is room
enough not only for us, the fifty-one who ask it, but also for
every one in the province not supplied. And its boundaries
are, on the north the Rio de la Vaca, from the place called
the Rancheria to the Agua Caliente; on the south the Cafion
Blanco; on the east the Cuesta, with the little hills of Bernal,
and on the west the place commonly called the Guzano, which
tract we ask to be granted us in the name of our Sovereign,
whom may God preserve; and among these fifty-one men
petitioning are thirteen Indians, and among them all are
twenty-five firearms, and they are the same persons who
appear in the subjoined list which I present in due form;
and we unanimously and harmoniously, as one person, do
promise to enclose ourselves in a plaza well fortified with

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

-bulwarks and towers, and to exert ourselves to supply all
the firearms and ammunition that it may be possible for us
to procure. And, as we trust in a compliance with our petition, we request and pray that your excellency be pleased to
direct that we be placed in possession in the name of his
Royal Majesty our Sovereign, whom may God preserve. And
we declare in full legal form that we do not act with dissimulation, etc.
"LORENZO

MARQUEZ,

"For ltimself and the Petitioners."
[The list referred to does not appear.]
" -Decree.
"At the town of Santa F6, capital of this Kingdom of New
Mexico, on the twenty-fifth day of the month of November,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-four, I, Lieutenant
Colonel Fernando Chacon, knight of the order of Santiago,
civil and military governor of said Kingdom, sub-inspector of
the regular troops therein, and inspector of the militia thereof,
for His Majesty (whom may God preserve), having seen the
foregoing document and petition of Lorenzo Marquez for himself and in the name of fifty-one men, should and did direct
the principal alcalde of this town, Antonio Jos6 Ortiz, to
execute said grant as requested by the petitioners, so that
they, their children and successors may have, hold and
possess the same in the name of His Majesty, observing at
the same time the conditions and requisites required in such
cases to be observed, and especially that relative to not injuring third parties. Thus I ordered, provided and signed with
the witnesses in my attendance, with whom I act for want of
a royal or public notary, of which there is none in said king.
dom, and upon this common paper, there being none of any
seal, to which I certify.
OCHACON.

"Attending:

FERNANDO LAMELAS."

" On the twenty-sixth day of the month of November, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-four, I, Antonio Jos6
Ortiz, captain of the militia and principal alcalde of the town

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
Statement of the Case.

of Santa F6, in pursuance of the order of Lieutenant Colonel
Fernando Chacon, knight of the order of Santiago, and civil
and military governor of this Kingdom, before proceeding to
the site of El Vado, I, said principal alcalde, in company with
two witnessess, who were Xavier Ortiz and Domingo Santiestevan, the fifty-two petitioners being present, caused them
to comprehend the petition they had made, and informed
them that to receive the grant they would have to observe
and fulfil in full form of law the following conditions:
"First. That the tract aforesaid has to be in common, not
only in regard to themselves, but also to all the settlers who
may join them in the future.
"Second. That with respect to the dangers of the place,.
they shall have to keep themselves equipped with firearms
and bows and arrows, in which they shall be inspected as,
well at the time of settling as at any time the alcalde in office
may deem proper, provided that after two years' settlement,
all the arms they have must be firearms, under the penalty
that all who do not comply with this requirement shall be
sent out of the settlement.
"Third. That the plaza they may construct shall be according as expressed in their petition; and in the meantime they
shall reside in the pueblo of Pecos, where there are sufficient
accommodations for the aforesaid fifty-two families.
"Fourth. That to the alcalde in office in said pueblo they
shall set apart a small separate piece of these lands for him to
cultivate for himself at his will, without their children or the'
successors making any objection thereto, and the same for his
successor in office.
"Fifth. That the construction of their plaza, as well as the
opening of acequies and all other work that may be deemed
proper for the common welfare, shall be performed by the
community with that union which in their government they
must preserve.
"And when this was heard and understood by each and
all of the aforesaid persons, they accordingly unanimously
responded that they understood and heeded what was communicated to them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

"Wherefore I took them by the hand and announced in
clear and intelligible words that in the name of His Majesty
(God preserve him) and without prejudice to the royal interest or that of any third party, I led them over said lands, and
they plucked up grass, cast stones, and shouted ' Long live the
King,' taking possession of said land quietly and peaceably,
without any objection, pointing out to them the boundaries,
which are, on the north, the Rio de la Vaca, from the place
called the Rancheria to the Agua Caliente; on the south, the
Cafion Blanco; on.the east, the Cuesta with the little hills of
Bernal, and on the west, the place commonly called the Guzano, notifying them that the pastures and watering places are
in common. And that in all time it may so appear, I, acting
by appointment, for want of a notary, there being none in
this jurisdiction, signed this with my attending witnesses,
with whom I act. To which I certify.
"ANTONIO

"Attending: Jos'

JOSIE

ORTIZ.

CAMPO REDONDO.

" ANT'O JOSk ORTIZ.

"This copy agrees with its original on file among the archives
of this town, and is faithfully and legally made, compared and
corrected. In testimony whereof I make my customary sign
manual, in this town of Santa F6, on the eighth day of the
month of November, one thousand seven hundred and ninetyfour.
"(Signed)
ANTONIO JOS ORTIZ."
"[SEAL.]

Fourth rial.

"Fourth seal, fourth rial, years one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-eight and ninety-nine.
"[sEAL.]

"At this place, San Miguel del Bado del Rio de Pecos,
jurisdiction of the capital town of Santa F6, New Mexico, on
the twelfth day of March in the present year, one thousand
eight hundred and three, I, Pedro Baptista Pino, justice of
second vote of the town of Santa F6 and its jurisdiction, by
verbal order of Colonel Fernando Chacon, governor of this

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
Statement of the Case.

province, have proceeded to this said settlement for the purpose of distributing the lands which are under cultivation to
all the individuals who occupy said settlement; and having
examined the aforesaid cultivated land, I measured the whole
of it from north to south and then proceeded to lay off and
provide the several portions, with the concurrence of all
parties interested, until the matter was placed in order.
according to the means myself and the parties interested
deemed the best adapted to the purpose, in order that all
should be satisfied with their possessions, although said land
is very much broken on account of the many bends in the
river. And after the portions were equally divided in the
best manner possible I caused them to draw lots, and each
individual drew his portion, and the number of varas contained in each one portion was set down,' as will appear from
the accompanying list, which contains the number of the individuals who reside in this precinct, amounting to the number
of fifty-eight families, between whom all the land was divided,
excepting only the portion appertaining to the justice, of this
precinct, as appears by the possession given by the said governor, and another small surplus portion, which by the consent of all is set aside for the benefit of the blessed souls in
purgatory, on condition that the products are to be applied
annually to the payment of three masses, the certificates for
which are to be delivered to the alcalde in office of said jurisdiction. And after having made the distribution, I proceeded
to mark out the boundaries of said tract from north to south,
being on the north a hill situated at the edge of the river
above the mouth of the ditch which irrigates said lands, and
on the south the point of the hill of pueblo and the valley
called Temporales, a large portion of. land remaining to the
south, which is very necessary for the inhabitants of this town
who may require more land to cultivate, which shall be done
by the consent of the justice of said town who is charged with
the care and trust of this matter, giving to each one of those
contained in the list the amount he may require and can cultivate; and after having completed all the foregoing, I caused
them all to be collected together and notified them that they

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

must each immediately erect mounds of stone on the boundaries of their lands so as to avoid disputes, and I also notified
them that no one was privileged to sell or dispose of their
land until the expiration of ten years from this date, as directed by said governor, who, if he be so pleased, will certify
his proper approval at the foot of this document, of which a
copy shall remain in this town and the original be deposited
in the archives where it properly belongs. Done in the aforesaid town, on the day, month and year above mentioned;
signed with my hand with two attending witnesses, with
whom I act in the absence of a public or royal notary, there
being none of any description in this kingdom. I certify.
"(Signed)
PEDRO BAPTISTA PINo.
"Attending: Jos9 MIGUEL TAFOYA."
Here followed the list of fifty-eight individuals, with the
number of varas each one received, running from 49 varas
in one instance to 230 in another, 65 varas being allotted in
thirty-eight instances.
"There are contained in this list fifty-eight families.
"San Miguel del Bado, March twelfth, one thousand eight
hundred and three.
PEDRO BAPTA. PINO.
"Given gratis, together with twentyodd leagues travel.
[" PINo's RUBRIc.]
"By virtue of what has been done by Pedro Pino, senior
justice of second vote of this capital town of Santa F6 concerning the distribution of lands made in the name of His
Majesty to the residents of the new town of El Bado, known
as San Miguel, I declare the aforesaid residents of El Bado
the lawful owners thereof, approving and confirming the
possession given by said Senior Justice Pedro Pino; and in
order that it may so appear in all time, I signed this at
Santa F6, New Mexico, on the 30th day of March, 1803.
"FERNANDO

CHACON."

It appeared in evidence that the alcalde, Pino, two days
after making the distribution at San Miguel, made another

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
Statement of the Case.

at the place of San Jos6, within the same grant, which was
approved by Governor Chacon, March 30, 1803, the same day
that he approved the allotment of land at San Miguel; that
allotments were made from time to time within this grant
at various other places until at least 1846; that a town was
formed known as the town of San Miguel del Bado, an ayuntamiento or town council being elected, and also an alcalde;
that the town continued until the American occupation; that
jurisdiction was exercised by the town council, not only over
the municipality and those living therein, but over the adjoining country and settlemqnts which were too small to be
entitled to an ayuntamiento; and that at present there are
living within the outboundaries of the grant at least four or
five thousand people who have collected themselves principally within four or five settlements. Testimony was further
introduced, disclosing the manner in which the lands included
within the outboundaries had been administered, and also the
administration of property rights in adjoining settlements.
This tended to show that the people cultivated the portions
of land that were partitioned to them according to the number in the family; that they obtained the land from the
ayuntamiento, but the alcalde was the person who, under
the direction of the board, made the partition to those who
came in from time to time to settle, from lands which had
not been partitioned before; that the unassigned lands were
common pasture grounds for everybody, and the water and
watering places were free to all, and for the benefit of all
families; but none of them were considered the owners of
the common pasture grounds, and they had no right to sell
anything except the tracts upon which they had houses and
farms.
In brief, the evidence is correctly summed up by counsel
for the United States as showing that subsequent to the
allotment and partition of 1803, and up to the date of the
American occupation, the lands within the boundaries of this
grant and a large amount of outlying lailds were administered
by the government of New Mexico through the ayuntamiento
of San Miguel del Bado; that persons coming subsequent to
VOL. CLXVH-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1896..
Opinion of the Court.

the allotment of 1803 applied to the ayuntamiento for land,
and if the petition or application were favorably received and
considered, the alcalde was instructed to make them allotments
of land for agricultural purposes and to put them into possession of the same, but always subject to the territorial deputation.
Mr. Matthew G. Reynolds for the United States. Mr. Solicitor General was on his brief.
Mr. T. B. Catron for Morton. Mr. Edward L. Bartlett
filed a brief for same.
Mr. John D. W. Yeeder for Sandoval et al.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
By Article VIII of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo of
February 2, 1848 (and we are not concerned here with the
treaty of December 30, 1853), Mexicans established in territories previously belonging to Mexico, and remaining for the
future within the limits of the United States as defined by the
treaty, were free to continue where they then resided, or to
remove at any time to Mexico, "retaining the property which
they possessed in said territories or disposing thereof or
removing the proceeds wherever they please," and "in the
said territories property of every kind now belonging to Mexicans not established there shall be inviolably respected. The
present owners, the heirs of these, and all Mexicans wh-o may
acquire said property by contract, shall enjoy, with respect to
it, guarantees equally ample as if the same belonged to citi
zens of the United States." 9 Stat. 922, 929.
The mode in which private rights of property may be
secured, and the obligations imposed upon the United States,
by treaties, fulfilled, belongs to the political department of the
government to provide. In respect to California, this was
done through the establishment of a judicial tribunal, but in

UNITED STATES v. SANDOV/AL.
Opinion of the Court.

respect of the adjustment and confirmation of claims under
grants from the Mexican government in New Mexico and in
Arizona, Congress reserved to itself, prior to the passage of
the act of March 3, 1891, creating the Court of Private Land
Claims, the determination of such claims. Astiazaran v.
Santa Rita Mining Company, 148 U. S. 80; Ainsa v. United
States, 161 U. S. 208, 222.
By the act of March 3, 1851, c. 41, 9 Stat. 631, Congress.
created a board of land commissioners to determine claims to
land in California asserted "by virtue of any right, or title,
derived from the Spanish or Mexican government." ยง 8.
Section 11 of the act provided that the board of commissioners thereby created, the District Court and this court, "in
deciding on the validity of any claim brought before them
under the provisions of this act, shall be governed by the
treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, the law of nations, the laws,
usages and customs of the government from which the claim
is derived, the principles of equity, and the decisions of the
Supreme Court of United States, so far as they are applicable"; that is, the decisions theretofore given in relation to
titles in Louisiana and Florida, which were derived from the
French or Spanish authorities previous to the cession to the
United States. Fremont v. United States,-17 How. 542, 553.
Section 14 permitted the claims of lot holders in a city,
town or village to be presented in the name thereof, and
authorized the presumption of a grant to such city, town or
village when shown to have been in existence on the day
named.
The act of March 3, 1891, is couched in different phraseology.
Section 6 authorizes any person or persons, or corporation
or their legal representatives, claiming lands within the limits
of the territory derived by the United States from the Republic of Mexico, "by virtue of any such Spanish or Mexican
grant, concession, warrant or survey as the United States are
bound to recognize and confirm by virtue of the treaties of
cession of said country by Mexico to the United States which
at the date of the passage of this act have not been confirmed

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

by act of Congress, or otherwise finally decided upon by lawful authority, and which are not already complete and perfect,"
to file a petition in the Court of Private Land Claims praying
that "the validity of such title or claim may be inquired into
and decided."
By section 7 it is provided that the proceedings should "be
conducted as near as may be according to the practice of the
courts of equity of the United States," and the court is empowered "to settle and determine the question of the validity
of the title and the boundaries of the grant or claim presented
for adjudication, according to the law of nations, the stipulations of the treaty concluded between. the United States and
the Republic of Mexico at the city of Guadalupe Hidalgo, on
the second day of February, in the year of our Lord, eighteen
hundred and forty-eight; or the treaty concluded between the
same powers at the City of Mexico, on the thirtieth day of
December, in the year of our Lord, eighteen hundred and
fifty-three, and the laws and ordinances of the government
from which it is alleged to have been derived."
Section 13 provides that all the proceedings and rights
thereinbefore referred to shall be conducted and decided subject to certain enumerated provisions and to the other provisions of the act.
Among the provisions contained in section 13 is the following:
"First. No claim shall be allowed that shall not appear to
be upon a title lawfully and regularly derived from the government of Spain or Mexico, or from any of the States of the
Republic of Mexico having lawful authority to make grantsof land, and one that if not then complete and perfect at the
date of the acquisition of the territory by the United States,
the claimant would have had a lawful right to make perfect
had the territory not been acquired by the United States, and
that the United States are bound, upon the principles of public
law, or by the provisions of the treaty of cession, to respect
and permit to become complete and perfect if the same was
not at said date already complete and perfect."
The seventh subdivision of the same section reads thus:

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
Opinion of the Court.

"No confirmation in respect of any claims or lands mentioned in section six of this act or in respect of any claim or
title that was not complete and perfect at the time of the
transfer of sovereignty to the United States as referred to in
this act, shall in any case be made or patent issued for a
greater quantity than eleven square leagues of land to or in
the right of any one original grantee or claimant, or in the
right of any one original grant to two or more persons jointly,
nor for a greater quantity than was authorized by the respective laws of Spain or Mexico applicable to the claim."
But this limitation does not, in our judgment, affect the
construction of the act so far as brought in question in the
case in hand.
In Ainsa v. United States, 161 U. S. 208, 223, attention was
called to the act of March 3, 1851, and it was said: " But,
under the act of March 3, 1891, it must appear, in order to
the confirmation of a grant by the Court of Private Land
Claims, not only that the title was lawfully and regularly derived, but that, if the grant were not complete and perfect,
the claimant could, by right and not by, grace, have demanded
that it should be made perfect by the former government, had
the territory not been acquired by the United States."
This was reaffirmed in United States v. Sania _Fj, 165 U. S.
675, 714, and Mr. Justice White, speaking for the court, said:
"An inchoate claim, which could not have been asserted as
an absolute right against the government of either Spain
or Mexico, and which was subject to the uncontrolled discretion of Congress, is clearly not within the purview of the act
of March 3, 1891, c. 539, creating the Court of Private Land
Claims, 26 Stat. 854, and, therefore, is beyond the reach of
judicial cognizance. The duty of protecting imperfect rights
of property under treaties, such as those by which territory
was ceded by Mexico to the United States in 1848 and 1853,
in existence at the time of such cessions, rests upon the political and not the judicial department of the government. Le
Bois v. Bramell, 4 How. 449, 461 ; Ainsa v. United States,
161 U. S. 208, 222. To the extent only that Congress'has
vested them with authority to determine and protect such

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

rights, can courts exercise jurisdiction. Where, therefore, a
tribunal of limited jurisdiction is created by Congress to determine such rights of property, a party seeking relief must
.present for adjudication a case clearly within the act, or
relief cannot be given. United States v. Clarke, 8 Pet.
436, 444."
And after referring to sections 13 and 7, and pointing out
that "the meaning of the words 'complete and perfect,'" as
used in section 6, "is to be derived by considering the context
and not by segregating them from the previous part of the
sentence'exacting that the claim must be one which the
United States was bound to recognize and confirm by virtue
of the treaty"; and that "these words are moreover controlled by the mandatory requirements of section 13," the
opinion thus continues: "Although the act of 1891, in section
11, authorized a town presenting a claim for a grant to represent the claims of lot holders to lots within the town, this
provision does not override the general requirements of the
statute as to the nature of the claim to title which the court is
authorized to confirm. The difference between the act of 1891
and the California act of 1851, hitherto referred to, accentuates the intention of Congress to confine the authority conferred by the later act to narrower limits than those fixed by
the act of 1851. The act of 1851 authorized the adjudication
of claims to land by virtue of any 'right' or 'title' derived
from the Spanish government, and conferred the power in express language on the board and court to presume a grant in
favor of a town. The act of 1891 not only entirely omits
authority to invoke this presumption, but, as we have seen,
excludes by express terms any claim, the completion of which
depended upon the mere grace or favor of the government of
Spain or Mexico, and of the United States as the successor to
the rights of these governments."
The contention on behalf of the United States is that the
Court of Private Land Claims had no power to confirm lands
situated as these were, within the outboundaries, that had not
been allotted prior to the date of the treaty because under the
laws of Spain and Mexico the jus disy8onendi of all unassigned

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
Opinion of the Court.

lands remained in the government and passed to the United
States.
The papers in the expediente show that it was the intention
that a town or pueblo, should be, and that it was, established.
The application stated that the land asked for was intended
not only for the fifty-one petitioners, "but also every one in
the province not supplied"; the alcalde Ortiz was directed to
execute the grant on "the conditions and requisites required
in such cases to be observed"; the conditions are set out by
the alcalde in his report as all agreed to by petitioners, among
them being the provision that the tract was to "be in common, not only in regard to themselves, but also to all the
settlers who may join them in the future."
In 1803, the alcalde Pino under instructions from the governor went upon the grant and divided the lands which had
been occupied and cultivated amongst the original petitioners
and some others, and put each one in the possession of the lot
drawn by him, notifying them that no one should have the
right to sell the land allotted to him until the expiration of
ten years from that date as directed by the governor. The
grant purported to convey only the use of the lands with the
right to acquire the legal title to such portion of it as might
be allotted to each in severalty on condition that they remained on it and cultivated it for ten years, while the unoccupied or common lands were declared to be for the benefit of
the original grantees and all other persons who might desire
to settle on the grant and who complied with the terms in
regard to settlement and cultivation.
Did the fee to lands embraced within the limits of the
pueblo and intended for community use continue to remain
in the sovereign or did it pass to the pueblo?
The general subject was much considered in United
States v. Santa Fj, supra, and it was said: "It cannot be
doubted that under the law of Spain it was necessary that
the proper authorities should particularly designate the
land to be acquired by towns or pueblos before a vested
right or title to the use thereof could arise." Various extracts were made from the laws of the Indies, and the fol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

lowing passages from Elizondo's Practica Universal Forense
were quoted:
"The Kings, the fountains of jurisdictions, are the owners
of all the terminos situated in their kingdoms, and as such can
donate them, divide or restrict them, or give any new form to
the enjoyment thereof, and hence it is that the pueblos cannot
alienate their terminos and pastos without precedent royal
license and authority." Vol. 3, p. 109. "There is nothing
whatever designated by law as belonging to towns, other than
that which by royal privilege, custom or contract between
man and man, is granted to them, so that although there be
assigned to the towns at the time of their constitution a territorio and pertinencias,which may be common to all the residents, without each one having the right to use them separately, it is a prerogative reserved to the princes to divide the
termino8 of the provinces and towns, assigning to these the
use and enjoyment, but the domain remaining in the sovereigns themselves." Vol. 5, p. 226.
And it was then observed: "Moreover, the general theory
of the Spanish law on the subject indicates that, even after
a.formal designation, the control of the outlying lands, to
which a town might have been considered entitled, was in the
King, as the source and fountain of title, and could be dis-

posed of. at will by him or by his duly authorized representative, as long as such lands were not affected by. individual and
private rights. This is shown by the quotation from Elizondo,
already made. The provisions of law 14, title 12, book 4, of
the Recopilacion (2 White, New Recop. p. 52),

.

.

.

illus-

trate the absolute control thus exercised by the King of Spain
over the subject."
The existence of this power of control and disposition as to

municipal lands in the supreme Spanish and then Mexican
authority was shown by further references, and various acts
of Congress were cited. as enacted in view "of this state of
the Spanish law and the unquestioned power lodged in the
King of Spain to exercise unlimited authority over the lands
assigned to a town and undisposed of and not the subject of
private grant, to all of which rights the United States suc-

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
Opinion of the Court.

ceeded as successor of the King of Spain and the government
of Mexico."
"So, also," said the court, "it may well be supposed that
it was upon this aspect of the imperfect nature of right in
land claimed by towns in territory formerly owned by Spain
and Mexico, and the long established construction of such
rights evidenced by the foregoing acts of Congress, which
caused this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Field, in
Grisar v. McDowell, 6 Wall. 363, 373, to say: 'Even after
the assignment the interest acquired by the pueblo was far
from being an indefeasible estate such as is known to our
laws. The purposes to be accomplished by the creation of
pueblos did not require their possession of the fee. The interest . . ..
amounted to little more than a restricted and
qualified right to alienate portions of the land to its inhabitants for building or cultivation, and to use the remainder for
commons, for pasture lands or as a source of revenue, or for
other public purposes. And this limited right of disposition
and use was in all particulars subject to the control of the
government of the country.'"
Although the particular question arising in the foregoing
case was whether the Spanish law, propric vigore, conferred
upon every Spanish villa or town a grant of four square leagues
of land, yet its disposition involved the same considerations
as those presented on this record, and we regard its reasoning
and conclusions as decisive here.
Under the laws of the Indies, lands not actually allotted to
settlers remained the property of the King, to be disposed of
by him or by those on whom he might confer that power.
As Mr. Hall says (chap. VII, ยง 122): "The fee of the lands
embraced within the limits of pueblos continued to remain in
the sovereign, and never in the pueblo as a corporate body."
Subsequent decrees, orders and laws did not change the
principle.
Towns were established in two ways: By their formation
by empresarios or contractors, the title to the lands granted
vesting in the contractors and settlers, minute provisions being
made in relation thereto: By individuals associating themselves

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

together for that purpose and applying to the governor of the
province, through whose action a city, villa or place was established. These municipalities appear to have been quasi
corporations, corporations sub modo, and their ayuntamientos
exercised political control over the pueblos and over surrounding country attached to their jurisdiction. The alcalde made
allotments subject to the orders of the ayuntamiento, and they
again were apparently subject to the provincial deputation or
an equivalent superior body. At all events, unallotted lands
were subject to the disposition of the government.
At the date of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, neither
these settlers nor this town could have demanded the legal
title to such lands of the former government, and the Court
of Private Land Claims was not empowered to pass the title
to either. 'It is for the political department to deal with the
equitable rights involved.
Tie result is that the decree in Morton v. United States ig
a/firmed, and the decree in United States v. Sandoval and
others is reversed, and the cause remanded that a decree
may be entered in conformity with this opinion; and it is
so ordered accordingly.

RIO ARRIBA LAND

AND CATTLE
UNITED STATES.

COMPANY v.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 195. Argued March 9, 10, 1897. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

In the grant which forms the subject of controversy in this case, the Span.
Ish governor did not intend to grant nearly 500,000 acres to the applicants, in common, and the alcalde did not so understand it, but delivered

juridical possession only of the various allotments made to petitioners
in severalty.

United States v. Sandoval, 167 U. S. 278 followed, that, as to all such unallotted
lands within exterior boundaries, where towns or communities were sought
to be formed, the title remained in the Government for such disposition
as it. might see proper to make.

