NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Syllabus.

in error. National Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 99; National
Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. S. 621. The difference between those
cases and one like this was referred to in McCormick v. Market
National Bank of Chicago, supra,and it is, therefore, unnecessary to particularly review them. The claim that the bank
in consequence of the receipt by it of dividends on the stock
of the savings bank is estopped from questioning its ownership
and consequent liability, is but a reiteration of the contention
that the acquiring of stock by the bank under the circumstances disclosed was not void but merely voidable. It would
be a contradiction in terms to assert that there was a total
want of power by any act to assume the liability, and yet to
say that by a particular act the liability resulted. The transaction being absolutely void, could not be confirmed or ratified. As was said by this court in Union Pacific Railway
v. Chicago &c. Railway, 163 U. S. 564, speaking through
Mr. Chief Justice Fuller (p. 581):
"A contract made by a corporation beyond the scope of its
powers, express or implied, on a proper construction of its
charter, cannot be enforced, or rendered enforceable by the
application of the doctrine of estoppel."
It follows from the foregoing that the judgment of the
Supreme Court of California against the bank was erroneous,
and it must, therefore, be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT FOR THE

EASTERN

DISTRICT

OF LOUISIANA.
No. 108.

Argued January 15, 18, 1897. - Decided May 24,1897.

By the act of January 30, 1836, the legislature of Louisiana exempted the
capital of the Citizens' Bank in New Orleans from taxation.
The two judgments of the District Court of New Orleans hetween the bank
and the city, which are set forth in the opinion of this court, hold that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
this exemption continued after the expiration of the original charter and
during its extension, and as they were made upon identically the same
facts and circumstances as those here presented, they are res judicata,
conclusive upon the parties, and estop the city from attempting to
enforce such taxes.
The exemption of the capital of a corporation from taxation does not
necessarily exempt its shareholders from taxation on their shares of
stock.
The claim of the bank to non-liability to taxation on property acquired by
it under foreclosure of 'amortgage Is rejected, without prejudice to
the right of the State and the municipal authorities to claim a license
tax, if imposed by law on the bank, and without prejudice to the right
of the bank to assert any legal defences to the payment of such tax.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. X. J. Cunningham, Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, for appellants. Mr. F. C. Zacharie and Mr. Alexander PorterMorse were on his brief.
Mr. William A. Maury for appellee. Mr. Henry Denis and
Mr. Branch . Miller were on his brief
Mr. Samuel L. Gilmore for appellants.
MR.JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Under the taxing laws of the State of Louisiana, real estate
held or owned by banking corporations is assessed like the
same class of property owned by other citizens, but special
provision is made for the assessment in other respects of the
capital of the banks as, follows:
"That no assessment shall hereafter be made under that
name, on the capital stock of any national bank, state bank,
banking company, banking firms or banking association,
whose capital stock is represented by shares, but the shares
shall be assessed at their actual value as shown by the books
of the bank, or banks, to the shareholders, who appear as
such upon the books, regardless of any transfer not registered or entered upon the books, and it shall be the duty
of the president or other officer to furnish to the assessor a

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.

.3 73

Opinion of the Court.

complete list of those who are borne upon the books as
shareholders; and all taxes so assessed shall be paid by the
bank, company, firm, association or corporation, which shall
be entitled to collect the amounts from the shareholders or'
their transferees; all real estate owned by the bank, company,
firm, association or corporation shall be assessed directly to
the bank, company, firm, association or corporation, and the-,
pro rata of such direct property taxed, proportioned to each.
share of capital stock, shall be deducted from the amount of
taxes assessed to that share under this section.
"Such assessment shall be made where the bank, etc., is
located, and not elsewhere, whether the shareholders reside
there or not. The said book value shall be ascertained upon
a statement duly sworn to by the president, cashier or secretary, and chairman of finance committee, or in the absence
of such latter officer then by one of the directors, showing
the assets in detail, and the valuation placed upon each, and
said valuation shall be at a fair market value. The sworn
statement of the bank's condition made next preceding the
date of listing shall be the basis of assessment. Any president or other officer who shall refuse or fail to deliver the said
list of shareholders, and said statement of book value and of
bank's condition, within the first twenty days of January of
each year to the assessor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
on conviction shall be punished by fine or imprisonment, or
both, at the discretion of the court. The district attorney
will at once act upon any complaint of such neglect or refusal
made to him by the assessor, or by the board of assessors in
the parish of Orleans." (La. Acts of 1890, p. 133; La. Acts
of 1888, p. 123.)
The revenue laws of the State in addition provide that
whenever the assessors find that property has been omitted
from the assessment rolls, such property shall be assessed for
the current year and for three back years.
The Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, a corporation created
under the laws of that State, filed in 1892 its bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States against the city of New
Orleans, the board of state assessors for the parish of Orleans

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Coplrt.

and the state tax collectors for the various collection districts
in the parish of Orleans. The bill in substance alleged that
although the bank was contractually exempt from. state and
municipal taxation under its charter and the acts supplementary thereto, the board of assessors were about to assess the
bank under the assessing law above referred to, not only for
the tax of the year 1892, but also for the three preceding
years, viz., 1889, 1890 and 1891; that the assessing board had
called upon the bank for a list of its shareholders in order to
make the assessment, and that unless restrained the assessment would be made and the tax collected thereon. Besides
alleging the contractual exemption resulting from the charter,
the bill averred that the fact of such exemption was conclusively determined by the presumption of the thing adjudged
resulting from judgments previously rendered between the
parties. The bill also averred that an attempt to enforce
the assessment and tax would impair the obligations of a
contract protected by the Constitution of the United States,
the rights asserted by the bank under the Federal Constitution being specially set up and claimed in the complaint. The
prayer was for a restraining order and for an injunction
enjoining the board of assessors from taking the steps necessary to make the assessment, from completing the assessment, and the collectors from collecting any tax thereunder.
The restraining order which was issued allowed the board of
assessors to obtain the necessary information from the bank
to make the assessment, and also the formal making of the
assessment by the board subject to the final decision as to its
legal right to assess the bank, but restrained any attempt to
cQllect any tax or to enforce any assessment after it was made
under the conditions above stated until the final decision in
the cause. Under the terms of the restraining order the board
of assessors assessed the bank in accordance with the law
above referred to for the year 1892 and for the years 1889,
1890 and 1891.
The complainant was refused leave to file an amended bill
attacking these assessments for invalidity in form. Thereupon the complainant filed a supplemental bill against the

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

sheriffs of thirteen parishes in the State of Louisiana, outside
of the parish of Orleans. This bill alleged that the sheriffs
named as defendants were ex ojliio tax collectors for the respective parishes in which they held the office of sheriff, and
that as such they proposed to collect, and were about to collect, certain taxes for various years on real property belonging to the bank situated in said parishes, and which had been
illegally assessed for taxation therein. That the assessment
of the taxes complained of had impaired, and the collection
thereof would further impair, the obligations of the contract
resulting from the charter of the bank protected from impairment under'the Constitution of the United States. The prayer
was that the named defendants be made parties to the bill and
that the collection of the taxe, be perpetually enjoined. Deinurrers to the jurisdiction to entertain either the original or
supplemental bill having beon overruled, answers were filed
specially denying the right of the bank to the exemptions
claimed. A hearing was had, and from a decree entered
against them, 54 Fed. Rep. 73, the defendants appealed to this
court.

The court found in favor of the complainant and adjudged
that "the exemption of said Citizens' Bank, its capital, property and shares of stock of its shareholders, is hereby -recognized and decreed to exist as conferred by its charter and the
laws amendatory thereof and relating to the Citizens' Bank,
and especially by the act No. 40 of 1874, extending the charter
of the Citizens' Bank, which extension and the said exemption
for the further. period thereof is hereby recognized and decreed
to exist, and the injunction herein issued is hereby made peremptory." The injunction which the final decree allowed forbade the collection of taxes for designated years by the State
of Louisiana and the city of New Orleans, "upon the capital,
property or shares of stock of the shareholders of said bank,
whether assessed against the bank or its shareholders," and
in addition the writ also enjoined the, demanding or collecting
from the bank of any state or city license tax.
The exemptions to which the decree below held the bank
to be entitled related therefore to distinct objects of taxation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

one not necessarily connected with or dependent upon the
other, and may be summarized as follows: First. That the
bank was not subject to taxation on its capital, shares of
-stock or real estate and furniture actually used for the carrying on of its banking business, and that the bank could not
be lawfully obliged to pay the sum of any tax assessed on
its shareholders. Second. That the stockholders of the bank
were not liable for assessment on their shares of stock.
Third. That the bank was also not subject to taxation on
any real estate held by it which had been mortgaged to
secure stock subscriptions and had become the property
of the bank under foreclosure proceedings, because property
so acquired became by virtue of the purchase a part of its
capital stock. Fourth. That the non-liability of the bank
to taxation embraced also immunity from the payment of a
license tax to either the State of Louisiana or the city of
New Orleans,
The contentions which arise between the parties on this
appeal from the decree below rendered are as follows: First,
the bank asserts lthat by the effect of its charter it was contractually exempt from taxation on all the foregoing objects
of taxation ; that this exemption existed not only during the
terms of the original charter, but during the term for which
the charter was extended. The contract being asserted to
result, not only from the express terms of exemption in the
original act, but from the fact that the very nature of the
contract between the bank and the State carried this exemption into the period of the extended charter, as the bank and
its capital were dedicated to the payment of the bonds, outstanding obligations of the State, and the bank was, therefore,
in a measure, a qua8i state institution. Second, that the contractual right to the exemption as above stated is conclusively
determined by the presumption of the thing adjudged, resulting from certain judgments relied upon.
On the other hand, the conterition of the defendants is that
the exemption did not originally obtain, or if it did, was not
carried into the extended! period of the charter, because it
could not be so carried under the constitutions of the State

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

of Louisiana of 1868 and 18-79, by which the bank was bound,
and that the judgments relied on and which were offered in
"
evidence do not constitute the thing adjudged."
A brief statement of the history and purposes of the organization of the Citizens' Bank and of the past action of the taxing authorities in the State of Louisiana as to that bank is
necessary in order to make clear the conclusions which we.
have formed on the foregoing contentions.
The Citizens' Bank was organized by a legislative charter
granted in 1833, and amended in 1836. As the effect of the
charter on the taxing power will be hereafter fully stated in
the language of the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana,
it suffices now to say that in its ultimate form the scheme
proposed by the charter was as follows: The subscribers to
the stock of the bank did not pay for their subscriptions
in cash, but evidenced the amount thereof by interest-bearing
notes, payable in instalments maturing many years ahead, the
last instalment becoming due only in 1886. The payment of
these notes, thus furnished for the amount of the subscription,
was secured by a mortgage on real estate and slaves. The
working capital of the bank was procured by a loan from the
State to the bank of its bonds to the amount of seven millions
of dollars, and these bonds of the State were endorsed by the
bank, and were by it sold in open market. To secure the payment of these state bonds the bank pledged all the notes
furnished by its stockholders for the amount of their stock
subscriptions, as well as the mortgages by which the payment
of these notes was secured. As an additional security for the
payment of the bonds of the State, the right of the stockholders to receive a dividend was limited, the charter providing that a given portion of the earnings should be added to
the capital. The State, moreover, was to have an interest in
the profits of the bank to a stated amount, and its affairs were
to be conducted by a board partly elected by the stockholders
and partly appointed'by the State.
By the original act, the term of the charter would have expired in 1884, and section 4 of the act of 1836 provided that
"the capital of said bank shall be exempt from any tax laid

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

by the State, or by any parish or body politic under the authority of the State, during the continuance of its charter."
The constitution of the State of Louisiana, adopted in 1868
(article 118), after directing that all property shall be taxed
in proportion to its value, provided that "the general assembly
shall have power to exempt from taxation property actually
used for church, school or charitable purposes." In interpreting this provision of the constitution, the Supreme Court of
the State of Louisiana has held in many cases that it deprived
the general assembly of all power to exempt property not
actually used for church, school or charitable purposes. In
1874, ten years prior to the period when the charter of the
Citizens' Bank would have expired, the general assembly of
the State of Louisiana passed an act extending the charter to
the year 1911. The preamble of this act recited the loss and
damage which must ensue from an attempt to promptly realize on the obligations resulting from the stock mortgages and
the interest of the State in the collectibn of the sums due, as
they were the means relied upon to pay the bonds by it
issued. Besides extending the charter to the period stated,
it authorized the board of directors of the bank to negotiate
for an extension of the state bonds. (La. Acts of 1874, No.
40, p. 77.)
In the year 1880 (La. Acts of 1880, p. 104), the general
assembly of Louisiana passed an act conferring on the Citizens'
Bank the power to compromise and settle the obligations of
its mortgage stockholders, provided the assent of the bondholders was obtained, and the compromise was made also
with the approval of the directors of the bank appointed on
behalf of the State. The act contained a provision for its
acceptance by the bank, and stipulated that the bank should
be made subject to articles 234 and 237 of the constitutioA
of 1879.
When this act was adopted the constitution of 1879 had
superseded that of 1868. The new constitution contained a
provision as to taxation differing in some respects from that
of 1868, but which as to the power of the general assembly to
exempt from taxation may be said to be equally as stringent

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

as were the provisions found in the constitution of 1868. The
Citizens' Bank accepted the terms of the act.
From the date of the original charter in 1833 to the year
1877, that is, for a period of forty-four Years, no attempt was
made by the State, or any of its political subdivisions, to tax
the bank on the subjects of taxation referred to above under
the first heading
The State, therefore, in all its taxing departments of every nature for this long period, recognized the
bank as in part not subject to taxation. In 1878, for the taxes
of 1877, assessable in 1878, the board of state assessors, whose
assessment rolls were also the basis for the taxation of the
city of New Orleans, assessed the bank on taxable assets over
and above the capital stock, not including real estate, at a
value of $159,828.62, and on the cash value of the capital
stock assessed to the shareholders $636,450, and the bank
under the law of Louisiana was notified not only to pay the
tax thus placed upon its assets, but also the sum of the tax
resulting from the assessment made on the shares of stock
against the shareholders. In June, 1878, the bank filed its
petition in the third District Court for the parish of Orleans,
seeking to enjoin the collection of the tax so assessed. The
petition for an injunction set out the charter and the amendments thereto, the fact that the bank was not liable to taxation, and that if enforced it would impair the obligations of
the contract entered into between the State, the bank, the
stockholders and bondholders, and upon the petition of the
bank a preliminary injunction was allowed. To this suit
the state tax collector and the state auditor and the board of
assessors were made parties defendant. The board of assessors answered, admitting the assessment and averring its
validity. The answer besides averred that the clause of the
charter exempting the bank from taxation was in violation
of the. constitution of the State of Louisiana of 1812, in force
at the time the charter was granted, and that it also violated
subsequent constitutions, and particularly the clause in the
constitution of 1868, to which reference has already been
made. The answer, moreover, averred that the tax on the
shares of stock in the hands of the shareholders was not a

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tax on the bank, and that the provisions of the state law by
which the bank was obliged to pay the sum of the tax assessed
on the shares of stock of its shareholders was lawful. The
state tax collector and the state auditor, through the assistant
attorney general of the State, also answered, setting up defences similar in character to those made by the board of
assessors. By way of reconvention under the Louisiana law
(Code of Practice, articles 374, 375), these officials, averring
the liability of the bank for the taxes assessed as above stated,
prayed judgment against the bank for the entire sum of the
taxes, with costs, penalties and attorney's fees.
Upon these issues there was judgment in favor of the bank,
declaring the assessment null and void, and perpetuating the
injunction. From the judgment so rendered an appeal was
prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
The case was heard in that court. Citizens' Bank v. Bouny,
Tax Collector, 32 La. Ann. 239. Two opinions were announced
by the court, one on the first hearing and the other on a rehearing. In the first, the court unanimously held that the
exemption of the bank under its charter was valid, and, therefore, that the taxes assessed against it eo nomine were void,
because impairing the obligations of its contract, but that the
tax assessed against the shareholders was irregular in form
and not in accordance with the provisions of the Louisiana
statute, and was therefore invalid. In the opinion on application for rehearing, the previous opinion as to the non-liability
of the bank eo nomnine to taxation of its capital or assets was
reiterated, but the previous conclusion as to the irregularity
of the assessment on the shareholders was withdrawn, the court
unanimously holding that under the peculiar provisions of the
charter of the Citizens' Bank any attempt by the State to take
from the funds of the bank any of its money for the purpose
of paying the sum of the tax assessed against the shareholders
impaired the obligation of the contract entered into between
the State and the bondholders and stockholders, and was
therefore void. The opinion of the court on the rehearing so
clearly and concisely states the attitude of the bank to the
State, and the obligations resulting from those relations, that
we reproduce .in full the text of the opinion:

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

J. It will be seen by our former opinion in this
is demanded of the bank taxes there
case, that
assessed as 'taxable assets over and
$159,828.62
on
"First,
and
stock,'
capital
the
above
"Second, on $636,450 assessed to the shareholders of said
bank, as ' value of capital stock,' etc.
"The taxes so assessed to the stockholders are demanded of
the bank, under the revenue act of 1878, which requires the
banks to pay such assessments.
"The bank resists both demands on the ground that by its
is exempt therefrom.
charter it"1. We see no reason to doubt the conclusion that by
section 4 of the act of January 30, 1836, the capital of the
Citizens' Bank is exempt from taxation. ' The capital of said
bank shall be exempt, etc., . . . during the continuance
the language used. That language is broad
of its charter,' .is
enough to cover everything which, during its existence, should
enter into and make part of the capital of said bank.
"By the twenty-ninth section of the original charter ' all the
profits made by said corporation shall be added to and made
a part of its capital,' except a certain fraction of any excess
of profits over what was necessary to pay the bonds issued
by the bank. It is not pretended that any such excess of
profits exists or ever has. As a matter of fact, the bank has
never declared a dividend to its shareholders. This sum of
$159,828.62 is accumulated profits, which, by the charter,
enter into and become part of the bank's capital, and is, therefore, exempt.
"2. The shareholders of the bank have been assessed for
the value of their shares of stock and the tax thereon is demanded of the bank. Under the view we have taken of this
case, it will be unnecessary to discuss the question so much
argued by counsel as to the right of the State to tax the shares
of the shareholders. The bank has no mission to raise such a
question, except so far as it may be necessary to protect itself.
Even if the shareholders be liable to taxation on their shares
(upon which we express no opinion), under the peculiar and
exceptional nature of the oharter of the Citizens' Bank we
"SPENCER,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

think it cannot be forced to pay the taxes assessed to its
shareholders.
"To enable this bank to obtain its capital, the State loaned
it bonds to the amount of several millions; which bonds were
put upon the market and sold by the bank; the bank binding
itself to take them up at their maturities, and to pay the
interest thereon as it accrued. In order to secure the State
against loss, and guarantee the payment of the bonds, the
mortgages and pledges given by the stockholders to secure
their subscriptions and loans were transferred to the State
and the bondholders. All profits were to be capitalized, except as above mentioned. No dividends were to be distributed,
except out of a small fraction of any surplus of profits, after
meeting and paying the maturing bonds and interest.
"It is, we think, manifest that the bondholders are to be
paid out of the profits of this bank by preference, and before
any dividend can be declared or distributed to shareholders.
It is not shown or pretended that the bank has in its possession any funds which it could legally distribute to its shareholders, or which it could pay to them without a manifest
violation of its charter. If voluntary payments to or for
account of its shareholders would violate its charter, and be
a breach of its contract with the State and its bondholders,
forced payments would be equally so. The authorities cited
by the defendants are inapplicable to the present case. Where
the capital, assets and profits of a bank are at the disposal of
its shareholders, the State may perhaps compel the bank to
pay their taxes on stock. But such legislation with reference
to the Citizens' Bank would be violative of the vested rights
of others, and, as we think, unconstitutional."
Under this judgment of the Supreme Court of the State,
the taxes against the bank were cancelled.
In the meanwhile, pending the appeal to the Supreme Court
of the State in the case just mentioned, a like assessment on
the Citizens' Bank and its shareholders was made for the
taxes of 1879, and in 1882 the city of New Orleans brought
suit in division A of the civil district court, a court of general
and unlimited original jurisdiction created under the constitu-

NEW ORLEANS

v. CITIZENS' BANK.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of 1879, to enforce the payment of this assessment. To
this suit the bank answered, setting up by way of defence
its non-liability to taxation under its charter, and there was
judgment in favor of the bank rejecting the claim of the city,
and in consequence of this fact the assessment was cancelled.
From 1879 to 1884, presumably in consequence of the foregoing judicial proceedings, no assessment was made against
the bank. In 1884, however, the board of assessors again
assessed the bank on its *furniture and banking house, and
upon its shares of stock. Thereupon, in October, 1884, the
bank filed its petition in division B of the civil district court,
against the board of assessors, the city of New Orleans and
the state tax collector of the city of New Orleans, praying
for judgment decreeing "that said assessments are illegal, null
and void, that they be erased and cancelled and be prohibited
from being collected, and that any record of the mortgage
therefrom resulting, be decreed to be erased." The petition
set out the charter of the bank, the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State in the case of Citizens' Bank v. Bouny,
and averred the non-liability of the bank for taxation, and
averred no other legal defence. After issue joined, there was
judgment in favor of the bank "against the defendants, the
board of assessors for this parish, the city of New Orleans,
and the state tax collector above Canal street, ordering said
board of assessors in and for the parish of Orleans, the city
of New Orleans, and the state tax collector of the city of
New Orleans above Canal street to be directed and commanded to erase as illegal, null and void the. assessments
described in plaintiff's petition and recited below, and that
they be prohibited from collecting any taxes based on said
assessment." From this judgment no appeal was prosecuted,
and on its finality an entry cancelling the assessment was
made. From the date of this assessment in 1884 until the
year 1886 no other assessment on the subjects of taxation
referred to was made against the bank. In 1886, however, the term of the original charter of the bank having expired
in 1884, and the extended term provided for by the act of
1874 having therefore come into existence,- the board of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

assessors again assessed the bank for the state and city taxes
for the year 1886, on its banking house and on its shares in
the name of the shareholders. In October, 1886, the bank
filed its petition in division D of the civil district court for
the parish of Orleans, praying the annulment of this assessment, and making the board of assessors, the state auditor,
the city of New Orleans and the state tax collector parties
defendant. The petition set out the charter of the bank, its
non-liability to taxation thereunder, and the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State in the case of Citizens' Bank v.
Bouny was pleaded as res judicata. Although there was a
general averment in the petition that the tax was excessive
besides being illegal, there was no allegation contained therein
adequate to justify or support the prayer that the assessment
be annulled, except the assertion that the property of the
bank was exempt from taxation.
After answer by the parties defendant, there was judgment
on March 10, 1887, decreeing "the assessment for the year
1886, standing against the banking house or real estate in the
square bounded by Gravier, Camp, Poydras and St. Charles
streets, assessed at seventy-five thousand dollars, on 10,500
shares of the capital stock, at $42.75 per share, aggregating
an assessment of $448,875, null and void and of no effect, and
that the same be cancelled and erased from the books of their
respective offices, and that any inscription of the same in the
mortgage office be cancelled and erased, and costs of suit."
This judgment was not appealed from, and on its becoming
final an entry on the assessment roll was made cancelling the
assessment.
On the 21st of March, 1887, a few days after the decision in
the cause just stated, the Citizens' Bank filed its petition in
division A of the civil district court of the parish of Orleans
against the board of assessors. In this petition, after averring
that under its charter the bank was not liable to assessment
and that it could not be taxed without impairing the obligations of the contract created by the charter and in violation
of the constitution of the State and of the United States, the
petitioner proceeded to aver the previous judicial recognition

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

of the effect of the charter, and alleged that, notwithstanding
these facts, the board of assessors were about to assess the
bank for the taxes of 1887 upon its shares of stock, upon its
banking building and upon the furniture therein used by petitioner for conducting its said banking business and Upon other
property possessed by petitioner, that said proposed assessments were without warrant of law, and the bank was entitled
to enjoin the making of the same. A preliminary injunction
having been issued as prayed for, the case was put at issue,
and resulted in a judgment, on the third of May, 1887, perpetuating the preliminary injunction, and enjoining the board
from "assessing the Citizens' Bank for taxes, state or city, for
the year 1887, upon its capital stock, on the shares thereof, or
its property, and that said assessment if made be cancelled
from the books of the assessor for the year 1887, and that the
recorder of mortgages for the parish of Orleans be and is
hereby enjoined from recording said assessments upon the
books of his office." This judgment was also not appealed
from, and upon its becoming final was executed by proper
entry on the books of the recorder of mortgages. From the
date of this judgment in 1887 to the year 1892, to quote the
language of the deputy recorder of mortgages, " there are no
assessments on the roll against the bank on capital or on the
bank building or on the shares. In the place of the assessments there is the word 'exempt' and the name of the bank,
but no assessments, and all the assessments of which I have
spoken [referring to those above alluded to] have been marked
cancelled by order of court."
In 1892 the right to assess was again asserted by the board
of assessors under the circumstances which we have previously
stated, and the controversy now before us therefore arose.
Since this case was decided below, the Supreme Court of
the State of Louisiana has had before it a suit brought by the
bank against the board of assessors, asserting its non-liability
to assessment and taxation under its charter, for taxes against
real estate acquired by it under foreclosure of its stock mortgages. Certain judgments rendered in favor of the bank
(presumably those relied upon in this record) were set up as
VOL. cLxvii-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

constituting res judicata. The court of last resort of the
State said in its opinion on the first heariig that it was unnecessary to pass upon the plea of the thing adjudged, since
the judgments relied upon did not embrace the question of
whether property bought by the bank under foreclosure of
its stock mortgages was included within its exemption. The
court held, considering the terms of the charter, that such
property was not included in the exemption. In that case
both the act of 1880, above referred to, and the act of 1874
were set up as conclusively establishing that the bank was not
exempt from taxation at all. In an opinion on a rehearing
the court somewhat modified the grounds for its conclusions,
and in the course of the opinion said:
"We refrained from stating the effects as. to the taxation of
the bank's capital in consequence of act 79 of 1880. We now
do the same, because we think it unnecessary to do so. We
propose td)let that question as to the exemption of the bank's
capital rest on the decisions heretofore rendered."
In concluding the opinion the court said:
"We think the Citizens' Bank has heretofore obtained all
that it is entitled to, the exemption from taxation of its capital proper and the real estate necessary for carrying on its
legitimate business or purposes." State ex rel. Citizens' -Bank
v. Board of Assessors, 48 La. Ann. 35.
From the foregoing statement it is evident that the contention of the plaintiffs in error, if maintained, will overthrow
the constrfictiQ h of a statute of the State of Louisiana, sanctioned by neariy sixty years of practical execution, and supported by decrees of the courts of that State which are final
and which were regularly rendered during a long period of
time whenever an attempt was made to assess the property of
the bank. It is true that during the greater portion of the
time when the charter was construed by the officers of the
State of Louisiana, and interpreted by the courts as rendering
taxation of the bank illegal, the original charter was in force,
and the question whether the bank was subject to taxation
during the term of its extended charter could not therefore
technically arise. But the old charter period expired in 1884,

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

and it is clear that from 1884 until 1892, not only was the
bank generally treated as not liable to taxation under its
charter, but whenever an attempt was made to tax it the
courts of the State held the assessment unlawful.
Indeed, the language of the Supreme Court in the case to
which we have referred, decided since the decree under review
was rendered, sustains the construction which the charter of
the bank had previously received under so many years of practice approved by the repeated adjudications of the Louisiana
courts. It is argued that in giving expression to these views
the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana indulged in mere
dicta, but although this be conceded, the dicta necessarily
afford some light as to the proper meaning of the charter.
Passing the consideration of the question of the correctness
of the decisions of the courts of Louisiana, and the influence
which they should have upon this court in interpreting a
purely Louisiana contract, the question arises, Are not the
judgments rendered between the bank, the board of assessors,
the city of New Orleans and the state taxing officers, absolutely conclusive, under the principle of the thing adjudged,
of the issue here presented? Of course, if the judgments are
the thing adjudged, and conclusively determine as between
the parties that the exemption of the bank under its charter
exists, to the extent determined by the judgments, the duty
in that regard of discussing the charter itself will be eliminated, since the effect of the thing adjudged will be to settle
that question.
In considering this question, we at once eliminate all the
judgments rendered prior to the period when the amended
charter took effect, and therefore confine our examination to
the two judgments rendered by the civil district court, the
one as to the taxes of 1886 and the other as to those of 1887.
The reasons relied on to establish that these judgments do not
constitute the thing adjudged are embodied in three propositions. First, because although it is true the officials who are
made defendants are the successors in office of the officers
who were impleaded in the judgments relied upon, as they
are not the same natural persons, therefore there is a want of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

identity of parties; second, because the records do not show
with sufficient certainty that these judgments were based on
the identical claim of exemption from taxation which is now
asserted, and therefore that the judgments do not establish
that the matter here in issue 'was necessarily therein concluded; third, because, whatever as a general principle may
be the efficacy of the thing adjudged, that rule has no application to taxes of different years, since a judgment decreeing a
tax of one year illegal can never be resjudicataas to a tax of
a future year, although the right to tax for a future year is
resisted upon the same facts and between the same parties,
and upon the identical legal grounds held to be conclusive in
a judgment previously rendered between them.
In passing we notice briefly an argument advanced in the
discussion at bar, that as the civil district court of the parish
of Orleans is a court composed of several judges, each of
which judges presides over a separate division, therefore the
judgments of one of the divisions can never become the subject-matter of re8 judicata. But this argument denies that
the civil district court of the parish of Orleans is a court at
all. The civil district court is a court of general and unlimited original jurisdiction, possessing full common law,
equity and probatepowers, besides having an appellate jurisdiction over the city courts. Constitution, 1879, art. 130. It
is true that the court is divided into divisions, but each division has plenary jurisdiction over the causes allotted to it for
decision, and the mere creation of separate divisions does not
deprive the courts of their judicial character, or prevent their
judgments when final from creating the presumption of the
thing adjudged between the parties thereto. Constitution
of the State of Louisiana, 1879, art. 130.
The first contention based upon the mere change in the
person holding the particular office is without merit. It is
not denied that the tax collectors and board of assessors
who stood in judgment in the suit when the decisions were
rendered were duly qualified and empowered to that end.
And it is also not gainsaid that the successors in office of
those officers who are defendants here are also duly em-

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

powered. The mere fact that there has been a change in the
person holding the office does not destroy the effect of the
thing adjudged. Scotland County v. Hill, 112 U. S. 183;
Itarshman v. Knox County, 122 U. S. 306; State v. Rainey,
74 Missouri, 229; Harmon v. Auditor, 123 Illinois, 122.
The second question then is this: Were the final judgments
which held that there was no power to levy the taxes on the
Citizens' Bank for the years 1886 and 1887 based upon the
identical claim of eeempt ion now asserted by the bank in order
to defeat the taxes here in question ?
The petition filed by the bank in the suit, by it commenced,
to have the taxes of 1886 on stock cancelled and annulled, is set
out in full in the margin.' It will be seen that it specifically
averred the charter of the bank, and that under its provisions
the bank could not be taxed, and that to so do Would impair
the contract obligations created by the charter, and would be
violative of the constitution of the State of Louisiana and of
the United States. It, moreover, referred to the previous
adjudication by the Supreme Court, and contained an allegation that the assessments, besides "being illegal and without
warrant of law, were excessive." But the relief prayed was
not the correction or reduction of an excessive assessment,
but solely that the assessment be decreed "void and null,"
and be "cancelled and annulled." The answers of the defendants asserted the legality of the assessment and denied
the right of the bank to question the amount, because it had
not availed itself 'of the antecedent statutory remedies necessary to entitle it to assert such right.. The judgment ren1 PETITION.

The Citizens' Bank of Louisiana
VS.T

Filed October 29, 1886.

No. 19144.

Civil District Court.
sion

Divi-

D."

The Board of Assessors, et als.
To the honorable the civil district court for the parish of Orleans
The petition of the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, a corporation established
by law, domiciled in New Orleans, respectfully shows That the board of assessors for the parish of Orleans have assessed
petitioner upon the assessment rolls for 1886 for taxes to the city of New
Orleans and State of Louisiana, on which the assessments are as follows,
to wit:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

dered upon these issues decreed, not that the tax was excessive, not that it should be reduced, but that it was null and
void, and must be cancelled. The judgment is inserted in the
On the banking house of petitioner, erected on petitioner's real estate in
the square bounded by Gravier, Camp, Poydras and St. Charles streets, and
on said real estate, assessed at seventy-five thousand dollars, and on 10,500
shares of the capital stock of the bank, assessed at $42.75 per share, aggregating an assessment of $448,875, on which the taxes assessed will amount to
upwards of fifteen thousand dollars, as appears by said assessment, specially
referred to for fuller explanation and greater certainty.
That under the charter of the bank granted by the .State the bank is exempted from all taxation, state, parish and municipal, in any form; that
on the faith of said charter and of said exemptions the capital of the bank
was furnished, the bank organized, and its banking has been for years and
is now conducted, all of which more fully appears by the legislative acts
on it, the act to incorporate the Citizens' Bank, approved 1st April, 1833;
the act amendatory of the first act, approved 30th January, 1836; the act
No. 246 of 1853, the act 141, p. 852, and other acts on the subject, under
which acts of 1833 and 1836 the original capital of the bank of ten millions,
and under which acts of 1852 and 1853 the additional capital of the bank of
one million dollars were furnished, all of which more fully appears by the
said acts, specially referred to for fuller explanation and greater certainty,
said exemptions being contained in the thirtieth section of the act of 1833.
That the aforesaid assessment on shares of 6448,875 purports to represent the capital of the bank and is specially in excess of the value of the
shares and of the capital, besides being illegal and without warrant of law;
that the aforesaid real estate assessed as aforesaid is in excess of the value
of said real estate, besides being illegal; that said real estate was purchased
and the building thereon erected with the funds of and belonging to the
capital of the bank and said real estate and building represent and form
part of said capital; that said assessments are in violation of the exemption
granted to the bank and are illegal, null and void, and any lieng, if any
there be, binding to direct said assessments is void for repugnancy to
article 1, section 10 of the Constitution of the United States, and article
155 of the constitution of the State.
That in the suit of The State Tax Collector v. The Citizens' Bank, decided
by the civil district court on the -,
1880, and affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State, 32 Ann. p. 239, said exemption was maintained and
adjudged valid, and said adjudication is res juldicata against said present
assessment and all demands thereon.
That within the delays and according to the forms prescribed by law
petitioner protested against said assessment and applied to the board of
assessors to have the assessment cancelled, but said protest and application
were disregarded; that within the delays and according to the forms prescribed by law petitioner made the same protest and application to the

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

margin.1 Now, to say that this judgment may have proceeded upon other issues or may have been rendered because
of some presumed irregularity, without considering the asserted exemption, is to substitute conjecture for the facts unequivocally and conclusively established by the record itself.
Under the pleadings only two issues were presented, that the
tax was void because under the charter the bank could not be
taxed, and that it was excessive; but the judgment did not
reduce the amount of the tax - it decreed it to be void. In
the pleadings there is nothing which justified the decree or to
which it was responsive except the exemption of the bank.
And this conclusion results by an overwhelming implication
when the state of the statute law of Louisiana is considered.
By that law, as is shown by the assessment here assailed,
wherever a tax is excessive in amount it is not to be avoided
common council and to its standing committee on assessments of the city
council, but said protest and application were also disregarded.
Wherefore petitioner prays that the board of assessors for the parish of
Orleans and the city of New Orleans be duly cited to answer this demand;
that the state tax collector for the first district be also cited; that after
due proceedings according to law there be judgment in petitioner's favor,
decreeing said assessment of said shares and on said real estate to be void
and null and decreeing it to be cancelled and annulled, and that any inscription of the same in the mortgage office be erased and cancelled, and for
general relief.
1 JUDGMENT.

In this cause, submitted to the court for adjudication, for the reasons
orally assigned by the court, the law and evidence being in favor of plaintiffsIt is ordered, adjudged and decreed, that there be judgment in favor of
plaintiffs, The Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, and against the board of assessors
of the parish of Orleans and James D. Houston, tax collector for the upper
district for the parish of Orleans, decreeing the assessment for the year
1886 standing against the banking house or real estate in the square bounded
by Gravier, Camp, Poydras and St. Charles streets, assessed at seventy-five
thousand dollars, or on 10,500 shares of the capital stock at $42.75 per share,
aggregating an assessment of $448,875, null and void and of no effect,
and same be cancelled and erased from the books of their respective offices,
and that any inscription of the same in the mortgage office be cancelled and
erased, and costs of suit.
Judgment rendered March 3, 1887.
Judgment signed March 10, 1887.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

but is reduced, and the board of assessors are entitled when
property is omitted for any reason to immediately make up
a supplemental roll correcting the errQr. Acts of 1884, sec. 2,
p. 136.
If, therefore, the court had concluded that there was an
excessive or irregular assessment it could not have rested its
decree upon that ground, because, as the tax could have been
reduced, or, in case of irregularity, have been assessed, the
issues necessarily required a decision of the question of exemption vel non. In other words, if the court had found that the
tax was excessive or irregular, to have so decreed would not
have passed upon the issue before it or terminated the controversy. In this connection it is worthy of remark that the
record discloses that from the date of this judgment no supplemental roll of any kind assessing the bank for the tax of 1886
was made. But under the statutes of Louisiana, if the judgment had proceeded upon an irregularity in the assessment,
the plain duty of the board was to comply with the statute
and make the supplemental roll. The fact that no such roll
was prepared is a conclusive demonstration that the judgment
was based on the claim of exemption, which rendered it impossible that the new roll should be made out.
The judgment rendered for the tax of 1887 is, if it were
possible, even more conclusive of the identity of the issue than
the one rendered for the taxes of 1886. In that case the suit was
brought by the bank, not to assail an assessment which had
been actually made, but to enjoin the making of any assessment against it whatever. The petition which is sei out in
the margin' stated no ground for relief other than the claim
I No. 20541.-PETITION FILED MARCH 21, 1887.
To the honorable the civil district court in and for the parish of Orleans:
The petition of the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, a corporation established
by law, domiciled in the city of New Orleans, respectfully showsThat petitioner is exempted by law - all taxation, state or municipal,
upon its capital, shares and property of every description, as appears by
the act of the legislature of Louisiana, approved April 1, 1833, entitled
"An act to incorporate the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana," and especially the
thirtieth section of said act, and by the act amendatory of the preceding act,
approved January 30, 1836, and especially by the fourth section thereof,

NEW ORLEANS V. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

of exemption. Indeed, the very nature of the remedy invoked precluded the possibility of any other ground, since the
relief sought related, not to an assessment already made, but
to prevent any assessment whatever under the existing law of
objects named from being made. How can it be contended
that the assertion in the pleadings that there was no power
to make any assessment at all of the specified property, was
simply a claim that an assessment was irregular? The judgwhich acts are specially referred to for fuller explanation and greater certainty.
Petitioner shows that under said charter, as contained in said legislative
acts,-and in accordance with the conditions thereof, the Citizens' Bank of
Louisiana was organized in 1836, with a capital of upwards of ten millions
of dollars, then obtained from the subscribers to the capital stock, In accordance with the charter of the bank; that in 1863 additional capital for
the Citizens' Bank of one million dollars was obtained from the subscribers
thereto under the authority of the act of the legislature of Louisiana for
the relief of the Citizens' Bank, being the act No. 141 of 1852 and the act
of the legislature of Louisiana No. 246 of 1853, approved April 28, 1853; that
the aforesaid original capital obtained in 1836, as well as the said increased
and additional capital obtained in 1853, was all furnished and paid to the,
bank on the faith of its charter, and especially on the faith of the aforesaid
exemption in the charter of all the property, stock and capital of the Citizens' Bank, and that, relying on the aforesaid exemptions, the said bank has
conducted and is now conducting its banking business.
Petitioner further shows that said acts containing the charter of the
said bauk, and especially the provisions thereof containing said exemptions
from taxation, are contracts under the protection of the articles of the
Federal and state constitutions protecting contracts, said articles being
ar ticle 1,section 10, of the Constitution of the United States and similar
articles in the state constitutions, and petitioner further shows that said
exemptions have been decreed valid by the courts.
Petitioner further shQws that, notwithstanding said exemptions from
said taxation and said judgments decreeing the same to be valid, the board
of assessors for the parish of Orleans are about to assess the Citizens' Bank
upon the assessment rolls for the year 1887 for taxation upon its shares of
stock, and upon its banking building and upon the furniture therein used
by petitioner for conducting its said banking business, and upon other
property possessed by petitioner; that said proposed assessments are without warrant of law, are prejudicial and injurious to petitioner and will
cause irreparable injury to petitioner, and it is entitled to an injunction to
prohibit and enjoin said assessments.
Wherefore petitioner prays that said board of assessors for the parish of
Orleans and the city of New Orleans be duly cited to answer this petition;

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
1
ment, a copy of which is reproduced in the margin, was
responsive to the issue presented, and enjoined the making of
any assessment for taxes for the year 1887, Now, as-there
was in the case of excess or irregularity lawful power, provided by statute, to make an assessment by supplemental roll,
the decree prohibiting any assessment could have rested alone
upon a want of power to tax, that is, of exemption, for that
cause alone Was adequate to justify the relief afforded. It, is
shown in the proof that, both as to the taxes of 1886 and 1887,
after the two judgments were rendered, there was entered on
the official rolls, "cancelled, exempt." The effect of this contemporaneous execution of the judgment cannot in reason be
argued away. The additional fact is shown that for five
years after these judgments were rendered the board of
assessors in annually making up their rolls, placed the name
of the bank on the roll but made no assessment, marking in
the place where the assessment should have been the word
In other words, all the departments of the state
"exempt."

that, considering the bond and affidavit herewith filed, a writ of injunction
issue, 'directed to said board, enjoining them and prohibiting them and
each member thereof from assessing the Citizens' Bank for taxes, city or
state, for 1887, or for any' subsequent year upon the capital stock of the
Citizens' Bank or the shares thereof, or upon the banking building of petitioner or upon the furniture used therein, or upon any other property of
petitioner; that said injunction be made perpetual, and that said board and
the recorder of mortgages be prohibited and enjoined from recording any
such assessments in the office of the recorder of mortgages and for general
relief.
'JUDGMENT.

In this case, submitted to the court upon the evidence and pleadings filed,
the law and evidence being in favor of plaintiff, it is ordered, adjudged and
decreed that the injunction herein issued on the 21st day of March, 1887, be
now made perpetual, and that the board of assessors for the parish of
Orleans and the members thereof be enjoined and prohibited from assessing
the Citizens' Bank for taxes, city or state, for the year 1887 upon its capital stock on the shares thereof or its property, and that said assessment, if
made, be cancelled from the books of assessments for the year 1887, and that
the recorder of mortgages for the parish of Orleans be, and he is hereby,
enjoined from receiving said assessment upon the books of his office.
Costs herein be paid by defendants.
Judgment rendered April 27, 1887.
Judgment signed May 3, 1887.

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

and municipal government having tested the question of exemption before the courts and having been defeated recognized
the fact, and for a series of years treated the judgments as
concluding the question of exemption. The effect, therefore,
of the claim now made is, in substance, to disregard the pleadings, to disregard the necessary effect of the decrees and to
repudiate their execution contemporaneously made and followed by years of official conduct. The fact that the petition
of the bank, filed in 1887, after alleging the'exemption, contained the general. averment that " said proposed assessments
are without warrant of law and prejudicial and injurious to
petitioner," does not furnish reason for saying that other
reasons than the exemption may have been (in consequence
of the use of these words) presented for adjudication. The
quoted sentence was not traversable and was a mere legal
conclusion from the facts previously alleged, that is, the
exemption of the bank under its contract.
It results from the foregoing that the two judgments rendered after the expiration of the original charter necessarily
adjudged the claim of exemption upon identically the same
facts and conditions as those here presented, and they therefore are conclusive unless the proposition be sound that a claim
for taxes for one year being a distinct cause of action from the
tax for a subsequent year, the judgment holding that the tax
of the prior year cannot be assessed or collected, can never be
the subject of the thing adjudged as to the tax for the future
year, however abs6lute may be the identity of the defence and
of the facts upon which the defence is founded.
There is difficulty in meeting the argument by which the
foregoing proposition is supported, because the reasoning commingles and treats as one, two distinct and different questions.
For instance, the argument that because a tax of one year is a
different cause of action from the tax of a subsequent year,
therefore a demand for a tax of a subsequent year can never
be concluded by the thing adjudged in the prior year, admits
the relevancy of res judicata to demands for taxes, but contends that wherever there are different demands the thing
adjudged has no application, although the last demand may

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

depend upon a question which has previously been determined under the same facts and circumstances. On the other
hand, the reasoning that this must be the rule, because it
would be intolerable to recognize that a judgment as to the
tax of one year could be conclusive as to the tax of a subsequent year, has for its basis the proposition that as a matter
of public policy and public necessity the principles of the
thing adjudged can never apply to taxation. In considering
the question we separate at once these two conflicting contentions and examine first the proposition that because a tax of
one year is a different demand from the tax of a subsequent
year, therefore res judicata as to one can never apply as to the
other, and the second question of whether as a matter of public policy the thing adjudged applies to taxes at all.
The proposition that because a suit for a tax of one year is
a different demand from the suit for a tax for another, therefore res judicata cannot apply, whilst admitting in form the
principle of the things adjudged, in reality substantially denies
and, destroys it. The estoppel resulting from the thing
adjudged does not depend upon whether there is the same
demand in both cases, but exists, even although there be different demands, when the question upon which the recovery of
the second demand depends has under identical circumstances
conditions been previously concluded by a judgment
and
between
the parties or their privies. This is the elemental
rule, stated in the text books and enforced by many decisions
of this court. A brief review of some of the leading cases
will make this perfectly clear.
In Bank v. Beverley, 1 How. 134, 139, it was held that a
-construction of a will affecting the rights of parties must govern in subsequent controversies between the same parties,
without reference to the different nature of the demands. In
Tioga Railroad v. Blossburg & Corning Railroad,20 Wall.
137, and Mason Lumber Co. v. Buchtel, 101 U. S., 638, it was
held that when the proper construction of a contract was in
controversy, the- construction adjudged by the court would
bind the parties in all future disputes.
In Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351, 353, after a full

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

statement of the nature of the estoppel resulting from the
thing adjudged where the demand was the same in both cases,
the court then considered the extent of the estoppel, where
the causes of action were distinct, and said (p. 353):
"But where the second action between the same parties is
upon a different claim or demand, the judgment in the prior
action operates as an estoppel only as to those matters in issue
or points controverted upon the determination of which the
finding or verdict was rendered. In all cases, therefore,
where it is sought to apply the estoppel of a judgment rendered upon one cause of action to the matters arising in a suit
upon a different cause of action, the inquiry must always be
as to the point or question actually litigated and determined
in the original action, not what might have been thus litigated
and determined. Only upon such matters is the judgment
conclusive in another action."
It is unnecessary to multiply citations of authority, as the
subject has been quite recently fully considered and passed
upon by this court.

In Last Chance Mining Co. v. Tyler Min-

ing ( o., 157 U. S.683, where an estoppel resulting from the
thing adjudged was enforced, this court said (p. 687):
"The law in respect to estoppel by judgment is well settled, and the only difficulty lies in the application of the law
to the facts. The particular matter in controversy in the
adverse suit was the triangular piece of ground, which is not
the matter of dispute in this action. The judgment in that
case is therefore not conclusive in this as to matters which
might have been decided, but only as to matters which were
in fact decided. '17opkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109; Smith v.
Kernochen, 7 How. 198; Pennington v. Gibson, 16 How. 65;
Stockton v. Ford,18 How. 418; Washington &c. Steam Packet
Co. v. Sickles, 24 How. 333; S. C. 5 Wall. 580; Lessee of
Parrish v. Ferris,2 Black, 606; Cromwell v. County of Sac,
94 U. S. 351; Davis v. Brown, 94 U. S. 423; Russell v.
Place,94 U. S. 606; Campbell v. Rankin, 99 U. S.261; lumber Co. v. Buehtel, 101 U. S.638; Stout v. Lye, 103 U. S. 66;
Nesbit v. Riverside Independent District,144 U. S. 610; Johnson Company v. Wharton, 152 U. S.252."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

And the law of Louisiana is exactly in accord with the
rulings of this court, for, as said by the Supreme Court of
Louisiana in Iliroman et al. v Louisiana institute of Deaf
& Dumb et al., 34 La. Ann. 805, 814:

"No principle of the law is more inflexible than that which
fixes the absolute conclusiveness of such a judgment upon the
parties and their privies. Whether the reasons upon which
it was based were sound or not, and even if no reasons at all
were given, the judgment imports absolute verity, and the
parties are forever estopped from disputing its correctness.
Cooley on Const. Lim. p. 47 et seq., and authorities there
cited.
"'1Matters once determined in a court of competent jurisdiction may never again be called in question by parties or
privies against objection, though the judgment may have been
erroneous and liable to, and certain of, reversal in a higher
court.' Bigelow Estoppel, 3d ed., Outline, pp. lxi, 29, 57, 103.
"'The estoppel extends to every material allegation or
statement which, having been made on one side and denied
on the other, was at issue in the cause, and was determined
therein.' Aurora v. West, 7 Wall. 102; 4 N. Y. 113; 2 An.
462; 14 An. 576; 19 La. 318; 5 N. S. 664; 11 M. 607; 14 La.
233; 5 N. S. 170."
It follows, then, that the mere fact that the demand in this
case is for a tax for one year and the demands in the adjudged
cases were for taxes for other years, does not prevent the
operation of the thing adjudged, if, in the prior cases, the
question of exemption was necessarily presented and determined upon identically the same facts upon which the right
of exemption is now claimed.
The argument that as a matter of public policy the principle
of the thing adjudged should be held not to apply to controversies as to taxation, if there be merit in it, should be addressed to the lawmaking and not to the judicial department.
But if the judicial mind could entertain the suggestion, it
seems clear that it is without real merit. In its ultimate
aspect it asserts that no question concerning government or
public authority ought ever to be submitted to judicial inves-

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

tigation. Indeed, the contention is that there is no power in
courts of justice to consider any question of taxation or render
any judgment in relation thereto. That this is the result of
the proposition is manifest from the fact that the very essence
of judicial power is that when a matter is once ascertained
and determined it is forever concluded when it arises again
under the same circumstances and conditions between parties
or their privies. To admit the judicial power on the one hand,
and to deny on the other the very substance and essence of
such power, is not only contradictory, but destructive of the
fundamental conceptions upon which our system of government is based. Under this theory the cause under consideration should not be entertained, but should be dismissed.
Accepting the argument in its full consequence, every judgment rendered by this court from the foundation of the government, declaring a particular tax or burden unconstitutional,
imports no efficacy whatever. Every decree of this court
enforcing taxation in order to discharge obligations previously
contracted, where the right to the tax was a part of the obligation, is deprived of the sanctity of the thing adjudged, for
manifestly if the estoppel of the thing adjudged does not arise
from a judgment preventing taxation, such an estoppel cannot
also result from a judgment enforcing taxation.
It is contended, however, that the asserted theory finds
support in two authorities, one a decision of this court, Keokuk
& Western Railroad v. Missouri, 152 U S. 301, and the other,
Davenport v. Chicago, Rock Island&c. Railway, 38 Iowa, 633,
640. But that these authorities do not sustain the contention
is demonstrable. In the Keokuk case the court held that the
controversy which it decided was not between the same parties
as was the controversy in the case wherein the judgment was
rendered which was relied upon as res judicata. The two
judgments not being between the same parties, there could
have been and was no necessity for deciding whether, if the
judgment had been between the same parties or their privies,
it would have been res judicata. True it is, that in the
Keokuk case the opinion arguendo discusses the question of
whether a judgment against the validity of a tax for one

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

year would be a bar to a suit for taxes for a subsequent year.
But that this reasoning was not considered as relating to a
case where the validity of the tax was resisted on a particular
ground, which particular and special defence had been previously held between the same parties to be valid under identically the same conditions and circumstances, becomes clear
when the context of the opinion is examined, and it is discovered that it approves and quotes the case of Cromwell v.
Sac County, the opinion in the Keokuk case saying:. "If
there were any distinct question . litigated and settled in the
prior suit, the decision of the court upon this question might
raise an estoppel in another suit upon the principle stated in
Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351." To seek, then, to avail
of the general language used in the opinion in the Heokuk
case without taking note of the circumstance that it was there
said that the estoppel would exist even as to a tax in a case
like this is, in reason, to misinterpret the opinion and make it
cover the very case which it in express language declared it
was not intended to govern. It may also be conceded that
language was used in the course of the opinion in Davenport
v. Chicago, Rock Island &c.Railway, supra, which is susceptible of the interpretation that under no circumstances, even
between the same parties, would a judgment as to the tax of
one year operate as the thing adjudged as to the tax of a
future year. But that case stands alone, and the language
therein used has been since, if not repudiated, at least qualified
by the Supreme Court of Iowa to the extent necessary to
bring that case in harmony with the true and universal doctrine so often laid down by this court. In Goodenow v. Litchfleld, 59 Iowa, 226, where the Davenport case was pressed
as an authority upon the Supreme Court of Iowa, that court
in an pinion on a rehearing said:
"It is undoubtedly true that the taxes of each year ordinarily constitute separate and distinct rights or causes of
action. But where an action is brought to recover taxes paid
in one year, and an action is afterwards brought to recover
for the taxes paid in a subsequent year, and the adjudication
in the first is pleaded as a bar to the recovery in the second

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

action, the question whether the estoppel is effectual will
depend upon the issues in the two actions.
"If the right to recover and the defence thereto are
based upon precisely the same ground, why litigate again the
question that has been determined? In such case the very
right of the matter has been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. It is not essential that the causes of
action should be the same, but it is essential the right or title
should be; that is, the issues in both actions and the matter
on which the estoppel depends must be the same, or substantially so. The very matter or thing which it is sought to litigate
must have been adjudicated in the prior action. In such case
the bar or estoppel is complete. This rule will not, we think,
be disputed. Therefore authorities are not required in its
support, but see .Merriam v. Whittemore, 5 Gray, 316."
It follows, then, that the theory by which it is sought to
take questions of taxation entirely out of the reach of the
rule of the thing adjudged is not only without foundation in
reason, but is also without support of authority, since the
case from this court, which is cited to sustain it, cannot properly be said to maintain the contention, and the other from
the Supreme Court of Iowa has been either overruled or
qualified.
The only question then remaining to be determined is, to
what subjects of taxation does the estoppel of the thing adjudged apply, for it extends only to the matters which are

necessarily concluded by the judgment. It is clear upon the
face of the records and judgments which are relied upon to
constitute re8 judicata that the only questions therein presented and decided were the non-liability of the bank for
taxation on its capital, its banking house, and furniture acquired for the purposes of its banking business, and to a tax
levied eo nomine on its shareholders, with obligation imposed
by the taxing law on the bank to pay the tax. These items,
however, embrace only the subjects of taxation mentioned in
the first of the enumerations which we at the outset made,
and do not include the objects embraced in the other three.
The thing adjudged, therefore, on the face of the records and
VOL. CLXVi-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

judgments does not conclude three of the general subjects of
taxation as to which the court below decreed the bank not
liable for taxation. The argument, however, is that although
the objects embraced in the last three headings are not apparently within the estoppel resulting from the thing adjudged,
they are nevertheless substantially so, for it is said as the
thing adjudged determined that the bank under its contract
cannot be taxed, the principle thus established carried the
other items with it. The contention is unsound, and to demonstrate that it is we will examine briefly the three items
referred to, which are embraced in the second, third and,
fourth headings. They are as follows:
Second. That the stockholders of the bank are not liable for
assessment on their shares of stock. The doctrine that an exemption of the capital of a corporation does not, of necessity,
include the exemption of the shareholders on their shares of
stock is now too well settled to be questioned. Bank of Commerce v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 134, 146; 163 U. S. 416.
Indeed, the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana in Citizens' Bank v. Bouny, supra,expressly noted
this distinction, and the opinion on the rehearing expressly
held, not that the shareholders could not be taxed, but that
even although they could be, the law could not lawfully impose, under the exceptional nature of the charter of the Citizens' Bank, the duty on the bank to pay the tax. Moreover,
in the Bouny case the Supreme Court of Louisiana held that
the bank was without authority to champion the rights of its
stockholders, and the bill in this case is filed in behalf of the
bank alone, and is predicated solely upon the theory that thebank was entitled to attack the tax because of the absolute
duty imposed upon it to pay. The decree below, therefore,
which held that the stockholder could not be taxed because
of the contract right of the bank, conflicted with the settled
rules of law, and accorded the complainanL a right to which
it was not entitled, although under the authority of the thing
adjudged the non-liability of the bank to taxation as to certain objects of taxation be fully established.
Third; That the bank was also not subject to taxation on any

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

real estate held by it, which had been mortgaged to secure stock
subscriptionsor stock loans and had become the property of the
bank under foreclosure proceedings, because property so acquired became by virtue off the purchase by the bank a part of
its capital stock. The argument by which it is asserted that
this right is embraced within the contract, and therefore is
covered by the thing adjudged, may be thus briefly stated.
The thing adjudged, it is said, establishes that the capital of
the bank is non-taxable, and where the capital cannot be
taxed, that in which the capital is invested becomes a part of
the capital, and therefore cannot be taxed, and authorities are
cited which, it is claimed, support this proposition.
But conceding arguendo the correctness of the premise it
begs the question for consideration, since it assumes that the
capital of the bank was invested in the debt which the stock
mortgages secured. The stock mortgages guaranteed the
payment of the subscriptions to the stock, -and these mortgages with the obligations arising from the subscriptions were
pledged to secure the loan from which the capital resulted. In
other words, the stock subscriptions and mortgages, instead of
drawing away the capital and therefore being an investment
into which the capital entered, were a mere security on the
faith of which the capital was obtained. The review which
we have made of the legislation as to the Citizens' Bank
makes this clear, and it is additionally fortified by these considerations: The act of 1833 provided for the subscriptions to
the stock and for the securing of these subscriptions by mortgage, but the subscriptions were not to produce the capital.
On the contrary, the capital was to be obtained by the issue
by the bank of bonds, secured by the subscriptions and the
mortgages; the money coming from the sale of the bonds to
constitute the capital of the bank. Thus the very first section
of the act of 1833 says: "That the capital of said.bank shall
be $12,000,000, to be formed and procured by means of a loan
or loans to be made by the directors of said bank." Section 4
of the act, which in detail provides for the making of the loan,
says: "That in order to facilitate the directors of said bank in
negotiating or obtaining the loan aforesaid, which is toform

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the capital thereof." La. Acts of 1833, pp. 172 and 175. By
the act of 1836 the State provided for the loan of its own
bonds to the bank from the sale of which the capital of the
bank was to be derived as a substitute for the provision of the
act of 1833. But the substitution of state bonds for bonds of
the bank, instead of weakening the proposition that the capital was to be derived from the bonds of the bank, strengthens
it, for it makes obvious the fact that the State on her credit
furnished the capital, taking as security the stock subscriptions and the mortgages. To accept the theory that the subscriptions to the stock and the stock mortgages securing the
same were the capital of the bank would necessarily presuppose that the bank was to be carried on without capital, for
the subscriptions were not to be paid for a long period of
time. Indeed, the whole theory of the act was that the capital being obtained by the bonds the subscriptions would only
produce capital when by operation of the provisions of the
act they were paid, thereby discharging the obligations of the
State. But this operation could not be effectual until either
the subscription had been paid or the property mortgaged to
secure the same had been actually sold and converted into
money, and this was manifestly the view taken by the Supreme Court of Louisiana in the case upon which the defendant in error relies, Citizens' Bank v. Bouny, Tax Collector,
supra, where the court said:
k"To enable the bank to obtain its capital, the State loaned
its bonds to the amount of several millions, which bonds were
put upon the market and sold by the bank, the bank binding
itself to take them up at their maturities and to pay the
interest thereon as it accrued. In order to secure the State
against loss and guarantee the payment of the bonds, the
mortgages and pledges given by the stockholders to secure
their subscriptions and loans were transferred to the State
and the bondholders."
Evidently it was a confusion of thought on this question
which led the court below to hold that the property bought in
in enforcement of the stock mcwtgages and held by the bank
was the capital of the bank, and therefore not liable to taxa-

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

tion. In considering the question of whether the capital of
the bank was taxable, in one part of its opinion the court
said :
"The original charter was granted in 1833. La. Acts of
1833, p. 172. That act contemplated that the capital of the
bank, which was fixed at $14,000,000, would be obtained by
the issuance by the bank of its own bonds. The subscribers
for the stock were to pay nothing upon their subscriptions,
btit were to furnish mortgages upon cultivated lands and
slaves to secure the payment of their subscriptions."
And after speaking of the failure of this plan and the
provision of the act of 1836 loaning the bonds of the State
to the bank for the purpose of obtaining its capital, the court
said: "And the bonds of the State were loaned to the bank
as its capital." Whilst taking this correct view of the act in
considering the question of whether the capital could be taxed,
a directly opposite opinion was held to be the sound one in
determining whether the property bought in by the bank in
foreclosure of its stock mortgages was a part of its capital,
for on that branch of the case the court said: " The bank had
,no other capital except the subscriptions by the stockholders
'secured by stock mortgages." We cannot approve a conclusion
which rests, on one branch of the case, upon the proposition
that the bank had no other capital but the proceeds of the
sale of the state bonds, and on another issue in the cause
holds that the bank had no other capital but the subscriptions
to the stock and the mortgages securing the same. If the
asserted rights of the bank as to non-taxation on the one
hand arise from the premise that the proceeds of the state
bonds were its capital, it cannot derive the advantage resulting from this interpretation of the charter and then immediately reject this construction for the purpose of obtaining
an additional advantage by saying that the proceeds of the
bonds were not the capital, but that the stock subscriptions
and mortgages securing the same alone constituted the capital. That the capital of 'the bank consisted of the money
derived from the sale of the state bonds and not from subscriptions and stock mortgages by which they were secured,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

was unquestionably the contemporaneous and continued construction of the statute, results from the fact that the record
affirmatively shows that for many years after the charter was
adopted the property acquired by the bank under foreclosure
of its mortgages was taxed like property of other citizens,
and the tax was voluntarily paid. Indeed, it was stated in
the discussion at bar, and not denied, that the supposed right
of the bank to exemption on property aquired by it under
foreclosure of mortgage was for the first time asserted in
this suit, and that for the long series of years which had
elapsed since the organization of the bank that character of
property was regularly taxed and the tax paid.
The claim that because the charter provided that the subscribers should have a right to borrow from the bank on their
stock a certain amount of the capital afforded by the sale of
the bonds, therefore the stock mortgages constitute an investment of the capital, is likewise without merit. Whatever
may have been the obligations of the. stockholder to reimburse
the money so loaned, and conceding that these obligations
were secured on the property mortgaged for the stock subscription, primarily- the property upon which the stock mortgage rested was and continued to be, until it was converted
into cash and applied to the pro tanto extinction of the loan
which had furnished the capital, a security for the capital and
not the capital itself. The rights of the holders of the bonds
and of the State which bad furnished the capital necessarily
exact this view of the relations between the parties.
Fourth. That the non-liability qf the bank to taxation embraced also immunity from the payment of a license tax to
either the State of Louisiana or the city of New Orleans. We
are at a loss to understand by what process of reasoning the
decree was made to cover the question of the nob-liability, of
the bank for license. It was not presented by the pleadings,
and was entirely dekor8 the issues in the case.
As we conclude that the decree below was in part erroneous
we must reverse it. The decree below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the case remanded with the following
directions: First, to enter a decree in fdavor of the Citi-

LOUISIANA v. NEW ORLEANS.
Counsel for Appellants.

zen8' Bank, recognizing and enforcing its non-liability
to taxation, state, parochial and municipal, on its capital
stock, its banking house andfurniture acquired and used
for the purposes of its banking business, and on a tax on
its shareholders eo nomine, accompanied with a legal
obligation on the bank to pay the tax. Second, rejecting
the claim of the bank to non-liability of its shareholders
for taxation, without prejudice to the rights of the shareholders to resist an assessment for taxation against the
shares owned by them unaccompaniedwith an obligation on
the part of the bank to pay, in case such tax should be levied
by the laws of Louisiana. Third, rejecting the claim of
the bank to non-liability to taxation on the property acquired by it under foreclosure of mortgage - the whole
without prejudice to the right of the state and municipal
authorities to claim a license tax, should such be imposed
by law on the bank, amd without prejudice to the right of
the bank to assert any legal defences which it may have to
the payment of such license tax.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, MR. JUSTICE BROWN and MR.

dissented on the ground that the judgments
are not res judicata,although in all
appellee
the
by
on
relied
other respects they concurred.
JUSTICE PECKHAM

LOUISIANA v. NEW ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 488. Argued January 15, 18, 1897. - Decided May 24, 1897.

New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 871, affirmed and followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion. The case was argued
with New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, ante, 371, as one case.
.Mr.M. J. Cunningham, Attorney General of the State of

