DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER v. BANNING.

723

Syllabus.

DOMINGUEZ

DE GUYER v. BANNING.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 24. Argued January 8, 1897. -Decided

May 24,1897.

The Board of Commissioners appointed under the act of Congress of March
3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, c. 41, confirmed to Manuel Dominguez and others,
claimants under a Mexican grant, a certain tract of land known as the
Rancho San Pedro. Upon appeal to the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of California, the action of the Board
was approved, and it was- adjndged, February 10, 1857, that the claimants
had a valid title to that ranchef the decree giving the boundaries to the
lands so confirmed. In execution of the decree, the lands were surveyed
under the direction of the United States surveyor general of California.
The survey upon its face excepted, reserved and excluded from the claim
surveyed the inner bay of San Pedro. Within the exterior lines of that
bay is Mormon Island, containing at mean low tide 18.88 acres, and at
mean high tide, about one acre. The survey having been filed in the Land
Department, a patent was issued February 19, 1858, to the claimants under
the decree of confirmation, conveying lands that were outside the exterior lines of the inner bay of San Pedro, and containing eight square
leagues more or less. The patent followed the survey, and did not inelude that bay or any lands within its exterior lines. The present action
was brought by various parties, asserting title under the decree of confirmation, to recover possession of the above 18.88 acres. The defendant claimed under a patent issued to him by the United States in 1881.
No application was ever made to the District Court of the United States
to correct any error in the decree of 1857, nor was any step taken to have
a new survey or to obtain a patent conveying all the lands apparently
embraced by that decree: Held,
(I) If the surveyor general misinterpreted the decree of confirmation,
and made a survey which excluded from the surveyed claim any of
the lands within the lines given by that decree, it was within the
power of the District Court to have its decree properly executed,
and to that end to order a new survey;
(2) While it may be true, in some cases, that an action to recover possession of lands confirmed to a claimant under the act of 1851 can
be maintained before a patent is issued, a patent issued avowedly
in execution of a decree passed under that act, was conclusive
between the United States and the claimants, and until cancelled,
such patent alone determines, in an action to recover possession,
the location of the lands that were confirmed by the decree;
(3) The patent in question having been accepted by the patentees, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
being uncabcelled, the plaintiffs in this action, claiming under the
patentees, cannot recover lands not embraced by it, even if such
lands are embraced by the lines established by the decree of confirmation-the conclusive presumption being that the patent,
being uncancelled, correctly locates the lands covered by the confirmed grant.
'The court further said it was unnecessary to decide whether the defendant
was entitled to a judgment on his cross-complaint, or whether the lands
under the navigable waters of the inner bay of San Pedro, and those here
in controversy or any part thereof, passed to the State of California upon
its admission into the Union, or after the issuing of the patent of 1858.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. Jeferson Chandler for plaintiffs in error.
iMJr. Stephen l.

White for defendant in error.

.Mr. Solicitor General filed a brief for the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action is in form ejectment. It was brought May 17,
1886, in the Superior Court of the county of Los Angeles, California, by Ana J. Dominguez De Guyer and others to recover
the possession of a certain island known as Mormon Island
in the inner bay of San Pedro, California. At mean high tide
the island has an area of less than one acre; at mean low
tide, about 18.88 acres. The area of the bay, including the
island, is 1100.59 acres.
The defendant Banning filed an answer, in which he denied
the allegations of the complaint; also, a cross-complaint asserting title in himself, and asking a judgment declaring him to
be the owner and of right in possession of the premises in
controversy.
A jury having been waived, and the cause having been
tried by the court, judgment was rendered that the plaintiffs
take nothing by their action, and that the defendant was the
owner, seized in fee and entitled to the possession of the lands
described in the pleadings. That judgment was reversed by
the Supreme Court of California. Three of the members of
that court as then constituted - Justices Fox, Sharpstein and

DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER v. BANNING.
Opinion of the Court.

Paterson-were of opinion that the island, as well as the
whole of the inner bay within the exterior lines of a grant
alleged to have been made by the Mexican government to
Christobal Dominguez, belonged to the claimants under that
grant, and that the title was vested in the plaintiffs. Mr.
Justice Thornton was of opinion that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover the island and such other portion of the land
sued for as contained 18.88 acres, and was not covered by the
navigable waters of the inner bay. Chief Justice Beatty and
Justice McFarland dissented.
Upon a rehearing the court, then constituted of Chief Justice Beatty and Justices De Haven, McFarland, Harrison,
Garoutte and Sharpstein, unanimously affirmed the judgment
of the inferior court. 91 California, 400.
The present appeal was prosecuted by the Los Angeles
.Terminal Land Company and George Carson, trustee, they
having, after the final decision in the state court, become
vested with all the right, title and interest of the original
plaintiffs.
The case has been twice orally argued in this court, and
we have, in addition, the benefit of a brief filed by leave of
court, on behalf of the United States in support of the judgment below, the Solicitor General having stated that the Government has a deep interest in the result of the litigation by
reason of the fact that it has heretofore expended vast sums
of money in improving the navigation of the inner bay of
San Pedro, and the entrance thereto; and that this bay is
regarded as one of the most important points on the Pacific
Coast as a harbor of refuge.
The history of the title to the lands in controversy, as
shown by acts of Congress, public documents and records is
substantially as follows:
By the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, c.
41, provision was made for the appointment of a Board of
Commissioners to ascertain and settle private land claims in
California.
That act declared that every person claiming lands in that
State by virtue of any right or title derived from the Spanish

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

or Mexican government should present the same to that Board,
together with such documentary evidence and testimony of
witnesses as the claimant relied upon in support of his claim
the decision when rendered, to be certified, with the reasons on which it was founded, to the District Attorney of the
United States for the District in which it was rendered. § 8.
In case of the rejection or confirmation of a claim, provision
was made for a review of the decision by the District Court
of 'the District in which the land was situated; and an appeal
was allowed from the judgment of that court to the Supreme
Court of the United States. §§ 9, 10. When deciding on the
validity of any claim the Board, as well as the courts, were
to be governed by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, the law
of nations, the laws, usages and customs of the government
from which the claini was derived, the principles of equity
and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States
as far as they were applicable. § 11.
By the thirteenth section of the act it was provided "that
all lands, the claims to which have been finally rejected by
the Commissioners in manner herein provided, or which shall
be finally decided to be invalid by the District or Supreme
Court, and all lands the claims to which shall not have been
presented to the said Commissioners within two years after
the date of this act, shall be deemed, held, and considered as
part of the public domain of the United States; and for all
claims finally confirmed by the said Commissioners, or by the
said District or Supreme Court, a patent shall issue to the
claimant upon his presenting to the General Land Office an
authentic certificate of such confirmation, and a plat or survey of the said land, duly certified and approved by the surveyor general of California, whose duty it shall be to cause
all private claims which shall be finally confirmed to be accurately surveyed, and to furnish plats of the same; and in the
location of the said claims, the said surveyor general shall have
the same power and authority as are conferred on the register
of the land office and receiver of the public moneys of Louisiana, by the sixth section of the act 'to create the office of
surveyor of the public lands for the State of Louisiana,'

DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER v. BANNING.
Opinion of the Court.

approved third March, one thousand eight hundred and thirtyone. .
It was further provided "that the final decrees rendered by
the said Commissioners, or by the District or Supreme Court
of the United States, or any patent to be issued under this act,
shall be conclusive between the United States and the said
claimants only, and shall not affect the interests of third
persons." § 15.
On the 19th day of October, 1852, Manuel Dominguez, Conception Roche and others presented to the Board of Commissioners appointed under the above act a petition, claiming a
certain tract of land in the county of Los Angeles, known by
the name of San Pedro, containing ten square leagues, more
or less. The petition stated that some of the plaintiffs claimed
by inheritance and a portion by purchase from the heirs of
Chiistobal Dominguez, who, it was alleged, died seized in fee
thereof, having inherited from his uncle, Juan Jos6 Dominguez, who also died seized thereof in fee about the year 1809
or 1810; that the latter previous to his death obtained "a
perfect grant or concession of the said tract, but at what particular date or from what precise governor cannot now be
discovered, owing to the fact that during his lifetime the
papers issued and granted, it is believed by Jos6 Dario
Arguello, governor of the peninsula, in pursuance of the
power duly vested in him, were burnt or lost; which said
papers, it is averred, contained a complete or perfect grant
to the said Juan Jos&'; that such title had been frequently
and repeatedly acknowledged by both the Spanish and Mexican governments, and particularly by Don Pablo Vincente
de Sola, governor of the province of California, by decree
bearing date December 31, 1822; that the said Christobal
Dominguez, the father and grandfather of the majority of
the petitioners, possessed the tract peaceably and quietly up
to his death, and died in the full and legal seizure thereof
about 1823; that since that time his heirs and representatives
have held and still hold the full, recognized and peaceable
possession thereof, except as thereafter stated in the petition,
which possession was known to the Mexican government and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

approved, ratified and confirmed by it in numberless instances;
that the lines and boundaries of the tract were and had always
been well known, defined and respected; and that about the
year 1817 the judicial possession thereof was given by competent authority, and its lines and boundaries marked out and
clearly defined.
The petitioners, after stating their relationship to Christobal
Dominguez, averred that they claimed "in fee the said Rancho
of San Pedro as tenants in common in the shares and proportions as aforesaid in virtue of the aforesaid grants, of their
long pacific possession, and of the ratification, approval and
acknowledgment of their title by the Mexican government."
The prayer of the claimants was that their title to the
Rancho San Pedro be confirmed.
The Board of Commissioners sustained the claim of the
petitioners, and an appeal was prosecuted by the Governifient
to the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of California. In that court, on the 10th day of
February, 1857, the following judgment was rendered:
"It is ordered, adjudged and decreed that the decision of
the said Board of Land Commissioners be, and the same
hereby is, affirmed. And it is further adjudged and decreed
that the claim of the appellees to the lands claimed in this
case is good and valid and the same are hereby confirmed to
them as follows: The lands of which confirmation is hereby
made are those known as the 'Rancho of San Pedro,' situate
in Los Angeles County, and bounded as follows:
"Commencing at the large sycamore tree (aliso) standing
on the side of the high road leading from San Pedro to
Los Angeles, thence running in a westerly direction to a
stone placed near the high road above mentioned and near
a small arroyo or creek; thence crossing the plain and following the line of said stones, which are placed as landmarks
along said boundary line, to a large stone placed as a monument in said line on the top of a sand hill; thence to the sea,
passing by and including the salt ponds known by the name
of Las Salinas; thence along the sea until it reaches a point
opposite the northern line of the Rancho Palos Verdes, occu-

DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER v. BANNING.
Opinion of the Court.

pied by and confirmed by said commissioner to the Sepulvedas;
thence following said line in an easterly direction to some sand
hills for about twelve thousand varas; thence southerly to a
point called La Goleta on the sea coast; thence following the
sea coast easterly to the river San Gabriel; thence up said
river to a point where a line drawn from the stone first mentioned through said sycamore tree would strike said river;
thence along such line to the place of beginning, containing
eight and a half (8j) square leagues, a little more or less."
The United States asked and was allowed an appeal from

this decision. But the Attorney General of the United States
having given notice that the Government would not prosecute
the appeal, the parties stipulated in writing that the order
granting the appeal be vacated, and that the claimants might
proceed under the decree as under a final decree. That stipulation was filed in the cause on the 4th day of June, 1857, and
on the same day an order was made, vacating the allowance
of the appeal, and giving the claimants leave to proceed as
under a final decree.
On the 18th day of December, 1858, a patent was issued by
the United States to the persons in whose behalf the decree of
confirmation was made. The patent did not set out the
decree, nor give the boundaries of the confirmed tract as
described in it, but after referring to the petition presented to
the Board of Land Commissioners and stating generally that
the petitioners claimed therein the comrinrmation of the tract
known by the name of San Pedro, proceeded:
"And whereas the Board of Land Commissioners aforesaid,
on the 17th day of October, 1854, rendered a decision that
'the claim of the said petitioners is valid, and it is therefore decreed that the same be confirmed to them, to hold and possess
the same as tenants in common in the respective shares and
proportion which they hold in and to the premises thereby
confirmed by title deduced from Christobal Dominguez, deceased, by heirship or mesne conveyances, it being the intention to confirm to each of said petitioners the respective title
held by him at the time of his becoming a party to this proceeding, derived from the source above mentioned' ; which

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

decree or decision was confirmed by the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of California on the
tenth day of February, 1857; and whereas it further appears
from a certified transcript on file in the General Land Office
that the Attorney General of the United States having given
notice that the appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States in this cause would not be prosecuted, the aforesaid
District Court, on the fourth day of June, 1857, 'ordered that
the order of this court made on the twenty-fourth day of February, A.D. 1857, granting an appeal to the Supreme Court
from the decree of confirmation of this court, filed on the
tenth day of February, 1857, be, and is hereby, vacated, and
that the said claimants have leave to proceed under said
decree as under a final decree.'
"And whereas, under the thirteenth section of the act of
Congress of the third of March, 1851, there have been presented
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office a plat and
certificate of the survey of the land confirmed as aforesaid,
authenticated on the 19th day of February, 1858, by the signature of the surveyor general of public lands in California;
which plat and certificate are in the words and figures following, to wit
"'U.

S.

SURVEYOR GENERAL'S OFFIcE,

"' San Francisco, California.
"'Under and by virtue of the provisions of the thirteenth
section of the act of Congress of the third of March, 1851,
entitled "An act to ascertain and settle the private land
claims in the State of California," and of the' twelfth section
of the act of Congress approved on the 31st of August, 1852,
entitled "An act making appropriations for the civil and diplomatic expenses of the Government for the year ending the
thirtieth of June, eighteen hundred and fifty-three, and for
other purposes," and in consequence of a certificate of the
United States District Court for the Southern District of California, of which a copy is annexed, having been filed in this
office, whereby it appears that the Attorney General of the
United States having given notice that it was not the intention of the United States to prosecute the appeal from the

DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER v. BANNING.
Opinion of the Court.

decision of the said District Court by which it affirmed the
decision of the Board of Commissioners appointed under
the provisions of the said act of the third of March, eighteen
hundred and fifty-one, to ascertain and settle the private land
claims in the State of California, by which they recognized
and confirmed the title and claims of Manuel Dominguez et
al. to the tract of land designated as the Rancho "San Pedro,"
containing eight and a half square leagues, a little more or
less, the said appeal has been vacated by the said District
Court, and thereby the said decisions in favor of the said
Manuel Dominguez et al. have become final, I have caused
the said tract to be surveyed in conformity to the boundaries
specified in the said confirmatory decree, and do hereby certiry the annexed map to be a true and accurate plat of the
said tract of land as appears by the field-notes of the survey
thereof made by Henry Hancock, deputy surveyor, in the
month of December, 1857, under the directions of this office,
which, having been examined and approved, are now on file
therein.
"' And I do further certify that, under and by virtue of the
said confirmation and survey, the said Manuel Dominguez
et al. are entitled to a patent from the United States upon the
presentation hereof to the General Land Office for the said
tract of land, the same being described as follows, to wit:
[Here follows a description, by metes and bounds, of the
exterior lines of the Rancho San Pedro, within which is Mormon Island in the inner bay of San Pedro.]
"'Excepting, reserving and excluding from the tracts as
thus surveyed that portion thereof covered by the- navigable
waters of the inner bay of San Pedro, and which are included
within the following-described lines,. to wit: Beginning at
the stake on the high-water line of the inner bay of San Pedro
on the line between stations twenty-three and twenty-four of
the survey of the rancho, and which stake is two hundred and
twelve chains south seven degrees thirty-two minutes east
from said station number twenty-three.
[Here in the body of the certificate is a table showing the

metes and bounds of the entire survey, and also a table headed

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"Traverse of inner bay of San Pedro to be excluded from
survey of the claim," and showing the metes and bounds of
the part so excluded; and immediately below the last table
are these words: " Area within the exterior lines of the confirmed tract, 44,21.9.72 acres; area within lines '7' to '16,'
being the lands covered by the navigable waters of the inner
bay of San Pedro, connected with the ocean, and therefore
to be excluded, 1100.50 acres; area included in the boundaries specified by the confirmatory decree, exclusive of bay,
43,119.13 acres."]
"' Thence according to the true meridian (the variation of
the magnetic needle being thirteen degrees thirty minutes
east) along the high-water line of the inner bay of San Pedro
south eighty degrees forty-five minutes east ten chains and
eighty-four links to station. . . . Thence north thirty-one
degrees thirty minutes west, crossing the channel or entrance
to the bay, nineteen chains and forty-four links to "La Goleta,"
exterior boundary station number twenty-four, and thence
north seven degrees thirty-two minutes west, crossing the said
"inner bay," one hundred and twenty-five chains and twenty
links to the stake on the high-water line of the bay and commencement of this survey thereof.
"'Containing exclusive of the lands above described as
covered by the navigable waters of the inner bay of San
Pedro, forty-three thousand one hundred and nineteen acres
and thirteen hundredths of an acre, and being designated
upon the plats of tile public survey as lots numbered thirtyseven, thirty-eight and thirty-nine, in township three south, of
range twelve west; lot number thirty-seven, in township three
south, of range thirteen 'vest; lot-number thirty-seven, in township three south, of range fourteen west; lot number thirtysei'en, in township four south, of range thirteen west; lot
number thirty-seven, in township four south, of range fourteen west; lot number thirty-seven, in township four south, of
range fifteen west, and lot number thirty-seven, of township
five south, of range thirteen west of the San Bernardino meridian line.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto signed my name

DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER v. BANNING.
Opinion of the Court.

and affixed the seal of said office this nineteenth day of

February,
"'[L.

A.D.

s.J

1858.
J. W. MANDEVILLx,
"'

U. S. Sur. Gen'l, Cal.'"

"Now know ye that the United States of America, in consideration of the premises and pursuant to the provisions of
the act of Congress aforesaid of 3d March, 1851, have given
and granted, and by these presents do give and grant, unto
the said Manuel Dominguez, Conception Roche, Bernardino
Roche, Jos6 Antonio Aguirre, Maria Jesus Cotta de Dominguez, Madalena Dominguez, Andres Dominguez, Feliciana
Dominguez, Estaban Dominguez, Maria Dominguez, Pedro
Dominguez, Jos6 Dominguez, Maria, widow of Manuel Roche,
and Antonio Jacinto Roche, and to their heirs, the tract of
land embraced and described in the foregoing survey in the
respective shares and proportions which they hold in the
premises 'by them deduced from Christobal Dominguez,
deceased, by heirship or by mesne conveyances, but with the
stipulation that in virtue of the fifteenth section of the said
act the confirmation of the said claim and this patent shall
not affect the interest of third persons,' to have and to
hold," etc.
This patent appears to have been recorded December 28,
1869, at the request of Manuel Dominguez.
At the trial the plaintiffs read in evidence the petition of
claimants before the Board of Land Commissioners for the
confirmation of the Rancho San Pedro; the decree of the
Board confirming the same; the decree of the District Court
confirming the decision of the Commissioners, and the orders
therein made as above stated; and a copy of the above patent
from the United States.
At this stage of the trial it was stipulated between counsel
that "whatever title vested by said confirmation and patent
in said petitioners and confirmees had passed to and become
vested in the plaintiffs in this action, who are now owners of
whatever title passed under said confirmation and patent to
the said petitioners and confirmees."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

A witness for the plaintiff, who was a surveyor, testified
that "the lines of the decree of confirmation and the exterior
lines of the patent and the patent map were identical; that
the survey was made in conformity to the decree of confirmation, and from that survey the description contained in the
patent was made"; and that the inner bay of San Pedro,
within which was Mormon Island, was within the exterior
lines called for in that decree and defined on the patent map.
Banning, in support of his claim to the premises, introduced
in evidence a patent from the United States, of date December
30, 1881, for lot one of section eight, in township five south,
of range thirteen west, of San Bernardino meridian in California, containing 18.88 acres, according to the official plat
of the survey of the said lands returned to the General Land
Office by the surveyor general"; and a quitclaim deed to
him from A. A. Polhamus, navigator, for "a certain tract of
land situate in the bay of Wilmington, county of Los Angeles,
State of California, known as Mormon sland, and all the land
adjoining thereto, to which I [the grantor] have any title or
claim."
Banning testified in his own behalf that he entered into possession of Mormon Island in 1880, his possession beginning by
his buying out the person then on the island. But he does not
state who that person was or by what right he was in possession. He also testified that when he took possession he claimed
that the title was in the United States, and he continued to so
claim until he obtained a patent from the United States, when
he claimed the property for himself; and that he has been in
possession since 1890, no one else claiming the right of possession until the present plaintiffs set up their claim by this suit.
He said : "This tract of land known as Mormon Island is an
island; at about half tide it is an island, and is now an island
at low water; at low water it is only partly surrounded by
water; at low water it would not be surrounded with water;
at mean tide there would be about two feet of water around
it; at high tide it is almost nl1 covered,with water. . . . A
very small portion of the island is above ordinary high water.
At mean tide, I don't think there is an acre above water. The

DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER 1. BANNING.
Opinion of the Court.

descriptive clause in the patent to me extends to mean low
water. I think to include eighteen acres would carry it to
mean low water. We occupied a portion of it that was covered with water. I have shipways there and houses on piles.
About an acre is covered in that way. Another portion of the
island we run lighters on and pile lumber on when the high
tide falls. We use in that way sometimes a couple of acres on
the ivest side, the channel side of the island, and that kind of
occupation would cover about three acres."
There was some evidence as to how certain lands, including
Mormon Island, were assessed from 1880 to 1887 inclusive.
But in the view the court takes of the case it is not necessary
to advert to it.
The map which accompanied and was made part of the
patent of 1858 shows the exterior lines of the survey made
under the decree of confirmation. Those lines include the
whole of the inner bay of San Pedro. The map also shows
the exterior lines of the bay itself. But across that part of
the map which designates the bay are the words " inner bay
of San Pedro (Exception)." And, as already stated, the map
has on its face not only a table showing the exterior lines of
the entire boundary run by the surveyor general, but a table
of courses and distances, under the heading "Traverse of
inner bay of San Pedro to be excluded from survey of the
,claim." It is not disputed that Mormon Island is within the
exterior lines of this inner bay, and is almost covered with
water at high tide. That the part excluded or excepted from
the survey embraced the navigable waters of the inner bay
cannot be doubted. Was it not also intended to exclude
Mormon Island, which, according to the opinion of the court
below on the original hearing, consisted, at high water, "of a
pile of rooks, covering not much more than an acre?" This
question wa atswered in the negative by the Supreme Court
of California, which, on the rehearing of the case, said: "The
remaining question is, whether the land in controversy is
included within the exception; and, as to this, we entertain
no doubt that the exception properly construed embraces all
the lands within the exterior boundaries of the inner bay of

OCTOBER TER3M, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

San Pedro, as shown on the map accompanying the patent
and is not confined simply to such land as is covered by the
navigable waters of that Bay. That this is the true meaning
of the exception is made to appear not only from the fact that
the ihner bay of San Pedro is marked 'excepted' upon the map
referred to, but is also conclusively shown by the concluding
portion of the survey itself, as returned and certified, in which,
after giving the boundaries of the land surveyed by courses
and distances, it designates the land surveyed, ' exclusive of the
lands above described as covered by the navigable waters of
the inner bay of San Pedro,' as being certain numbered
lots ol the plats of the public survey, neither of which lots
includes any portion of the land within the exterior boundaries of the inner bay of San Pedro, as marked on said map."
We entirely concur in that view. The purpose of the surveyor general'was to set apart to the claimants under the
decree of confirmation, 43,119.13 acres, and not to include in,
but distinctly to exclude from, the surveyed claim the 1100.50
acres within the exterior lines of the inner bay. And that
there might be no doubt where and bow the confirmed tract
was located, the surveydescribes the 43,119.13 acres as being
designated upon the plats of the public survey as certain numbered "lots." Mormon Island is not within any of those lots.
The Island, therefore, was not included within, but was
excluded from, the surveyed claim, nor patented to the claimants who obtained the decree of confirmation.
The plaintiffs, therefore, contend that we have a case in
which the survey made in execution if the decree of confirmation under the act of 1851, and the patent based on that
survey, except and exclude lands which, although within the
exterior lines of the bay, are within the exterior lines of the
confirmed tract as described in such decree.
But does it follow that in this action to recover possession
the plaintiffs can recover lands that were excluded from the
survey, and are not embraced by the patent based upon that
survey? The plaintiffs offered in evidence in support of their
title a patent which manifestly did not grant lands that were
excluded from the .surveyed claim; and yet it is contended

DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER v. BANNING.
Opinion of the Court.

that they may go behind both the survey and patent, and
recover the possession of the lands so excluded, precisely as
they could do if the lands had been included in both the
survey and patent.
In our opinion, if those who obtained the decree of confirmation objected to the survey as not being in conformity
with that decree, their objection should have been made
known to the District Court before the survey was transmittedto the General Land Office, or at least before it was
acted upon and made the basis of a patent. The patent was
not issued until nearly a year after the survey was made
and certified. Under the act of 1851, it was within the
power of the District Court to have required a survey in
exact conformity with its decree. Its jurisdiction over' the
subject did not end with the decree. The surveyor general
was required by the statute (§ 13) to cause an accurate survey
to be made of all private claims finally confirmed under the
act of 1851, and to furnish plats of the same. If he misinterpreted the decree; if he made an inaccurate survey, and
excluded from it lands that were confirmed to the original
claimants, the court had authority to compel the proper execution of its decree.
In United States v. Fossatt, 21 How. 445, 450, decided in
1858, which case arose under the act of 1851 for the settlement of private land claims in California, this court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Campbell, said: "It is asserted on the part of
the appellants that the District Court has no means to ascertain the specific boundaries of a confirmed claim, and no
power to enforce the execution of its decree, and consequently
cannot proceed further in the cause than it has done. The
thirteenth section of the act of the 3d of March, 1851, makes it
the duty of the surveyor general to cause all private claims
which shall be finally confirmed to be accurately surveyed,
and to furnish plats of the same. It was the practice under
the acts of 1824 and 1828, 4 Stat. 52, 284, for the court to
direct their mandates specifically to the surveyor designated
in those acts. And in the case Ex parte Sibbald v. United
States, 12 Pet. 488, the duty of the surveyor to fulfil the
VOL. cLxvII-47

OCTOBER TERM, 1896."
Opinion of the Court.

decree of the court, and the power of the court to enforce
the discharge of that duty, are declared and maintained. The
duties of the surveyor begin under the same conditions, and
are declared in similar language, in the acts of 1824, 1828 and
of 1851. The opinion of the court is, that the power of the
District Court over the cause, under the acts of Congress,
does not terminate until the issue of a patent, conformably
to the decree." To the same effect was United States v.
Berre/esa's Heirs, 23 How. 499.
The power of the District Court over proceedings taken in
execution of its decree was distinctly recognized by, although
existing before, the act of June 14, 1860, 12 Stat. 33, c. 128,
which provided that "the District Courts of the United States
for the Northern and Southern Districts of California are
hereby authorized, upon the application of any party interested, to make an order requiring any survey of a private land
claim within their respective districts to be returned into the
District Court for examination and adjudication, and on the
receipt of said order, duly certified by the clerk of either of
;said courts, it shall be the duty of the surveyor general to transmit said survey and plat forthwith to said court."
Referring to the act of 1860, in United States v. Italleck, 1
Wall. 439, 454, (1863)- in which case a second survey had
been ordered prior to the act of 1860, and was pending when
that act was passed
Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the
court, said that whatever question might be raised as to the
jurisdiction of the District Court to supervise the survey previous to that act, there could be none after its passage. And
in Fossat's case, 2 Wall. 649, 712 (the same one above reported
in 21 How.), Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering the opinion of the
court, said: "The fundamental error in the argument is in
assuming that the survey and location of the land confirmed
are not proceedings under the control of the court rendering
the decree, and hence not a part of the judicial action of the
court. These proceedings are simply in execution of the
decree, which execution is as much the duty of the court, and
as much within its competency, as the hearing of the cause
and the rendition of its judgment; as much so as the execu-

DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER v. BANNING.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of any other judgment or decree rendered by the court.
This power has been exercised by the court ever since tLe
Spanish and French land claims were placed under its jurisdiction, as may be seen by the cases referred to in the opinion
of the court in this case when last before us, and in many
others to be found in the reports. The powers of the surveyor general under these acts were as extensive and as well
defined as under the act of 1851. The act of 1860 did not
enlarge or in any way affect his powers. They remained the
same as before."
So far from the claimants under the decree of confirmation
rendered in 1857 bringing the survey before the District Court
in order that any error therein might be corrected, they
accepted it as filed. We say this because the statute requires
a patent to issue to the claimant "upon his presenting to the
certificate of the confirmaOffice an authentic
General Landplat
or survey of said land, duly certified and
tion, and a
approved by the surveyor general of California." If the
claimants under the decree of confirmation did not them-

selves present the survey to the General Land Office, and ask
a patent in accordance therewith, they accepted a patent
based upon that survey, and plainly showing that it conformed
to a survey that did not embrace, for the purposes of a patent,
anything within the exterior lines of the inner bay of San
Pedro. If the Secretary of the Interior upon inspecting the
survey and the decree of confirmation had authority to order
a new survey or to disregard the part of it excluding lands
within the exterior lines of the inner bay, the record does not
show that any effort was made in the Land Office to bring
about such a result. On the other hand, if the Land Office
had only a ministerial duty to issue a patent in exact accordance with the decree of confirmation, no steps were taken to
compel the performance of that duty. We have therefore
a case brought in 1886 in which the plaintiffs seek to recover
the possession of lands alleged to have been confirmed in 1857
to those under whom they claim, but which lands in 1858,
nearly thirty years before the commencement of this action,
were expressly excluded as well from the survey to which no

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

objection was urged, as from the patent issued to and accepted
by the claimants under that decree.
We are of opinion that while it may be true, in some cases,
that an action to recover possession of lands confirmed to a
claimant under the act of 1851 can be maintained before a
patent is issued, yet a patent issued avowedly in execution of
such decree was conclusive between the United States and the
claimants, and, until cancelled, it alone determines, in an action to recover possession, the location of the lands that passed
under the decree. Such is the effect of former decisions of
this court.
An instructive case upon the subject is Beard v. Federy, 3
Wall. 478, 491, in which this court considered the character
and effect of a patent issued upon a confirmation of a claim
to land under the laws of Spain or Mexico. The court said:
" In the first place, the patent is a deed of the United States.
As a deed, its operation is that of a quitclaim, or rather of a
conveyance of such interest as the United States possessed in
the land, and it takes effect by relation at the time when proceedings were instituted by the filing of the petition before
the Board of Land Commissioners. Landes v. Brant, 10
How. 373. In the second place, the patent is a record of the
action of the Government upon the title of the claimant as it
existed upon the acquisition of the country. Such acquisition
did not affect the rights of the inhabitants to their property.
They retained all such rights, and were entitled by the law
of nations to protection in them to the same extent as under
the former Government. The treaty of cession also stipulated
for such protection. The obligation, to which the United
States thus succeeded, was, of course, political in its character,
and to be discharged in such manner and on such terms as
they might judge expedient. By the act of March 3, 1851,
they have declared the manner and the terms on which they
will discharge this obligation. They have there established
a special tribunal, before which all claims to lands are to be
investigated; required evidence to be presented respecting
the claims; appointed law officers to appear and contest them
on behalf of the Government; authorized appeals from the

DOMINGUEZ

DE GUYER v. BANNING.

Opinion of the Court.

decisions of the tribunal, first to the District and then to the
Supreme Court; and designated officers to survey and measure off the land when the validity of the claim is finally determined. When informed, by the action of its tribunals and
officers, that a claim asserted is valid and entitled to recognition, the Government acts, and issues its patent to the claimant. This instrument is, therefore, record evidence of the
action of the'Government upon the title of the claimant. By
it the Government declares that the claim asserted was valid
under the laws of Mexico; that it was entitled to recognition
and protection by the stipulations of the treaty, and might
have been located under the former Government, and is correctly located now, so as to embrace the premises as they are
surveyed and described. As against the Government this
record, so long as it remains unvacated, is conclusive. And it
is equally conclusive against parties claiming under the Government by title subsequent. It is in this effect of the patent
as a record of the Government that its security and protection chiefly lie. If parties asserting interests in lands acquired
since the acquisition of the country could deny and controvert
this record, and compel the patentee, in every suit for his
land, to establish the validity of his claim, his right to its confirmation and the correctness of the action of the tribunals and
officers of the United States in the location of the same, the
patent would fail to be, as it was intended it should be, an
instrument of quiet and security to its possessor. The patentee
would find his title recognized in one suit and rejected in another, and if his title were maintained, he would find his land
located in as many different places as the varying prejudices,
interests or notions of justice of witnesses and jurymen might
suggest. Every fact upon which the decree and patent rest
would be open to contestation. The intruder, resting solely
upon his possession, might insist that the original claim was
invalid or was not properly located, and, therefore, he could
not be disturbed by the patentee. No construction which
will lead to such results can be given to the fifteenth section.
The term 'third persons,' as there used, does not embrace all
persons other than the United States and the claimants, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

only those who hold superior titles, such as will enable them
to resist successfully any action of the Government in disposing of the property."
These principles were recognized in More v. Steinbach, 127
U. S. 10, 83, and again in Knight v. United States Land Association, 142 U. S. 161, 187. See also *.Meader v. _Norton, 11
Wall. 442, 457; Adam v. Norris, 103 U. S. 591, 593; Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, 158 U. S. 240; Russell v. JMaxwell Land
Grant Co., 158 U. S. 253.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of California have been
to the same effect.
In Teschemacher v. Thompson, 18 California, 11, 25, 26, the
court, after referring to the statute of 1851, said: "As the
last act in the series of proceedings, a patent is to issue to
the claimant. This instrument is not only the deed of the
United States, but it is a solemn record by the Government of
its action and judgment with respect to the title of the claimant existing at the date of the cession. By it the sovereign
power, which alone could determine the matter, declares that
the previous grant was genuine; that the claim under it was
valid and entitled to recognition and confirmation by the law
of nations and the stipulations of the treaty; and' that the
grant was located, or might have been located, by the former
Government, and is correctly located by the new Government,
so as to embrace the premises as they are surveyed and described. Whilst this declaration remains of record, the Government itself cannot question its vdrity, nor can parties
claiming through the Government by title subsequent."
In Chipley v. Fi'arris,45 California, 527, 538, which involved
the title to lands alleged to have been covered by a Mexican
grant, and in respect of which there were proceedings under
the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, it was contended on
one side that the patent was conclusive upon all points in the
case, and put an end to all questions of lines and boundaries.
On theother side, it was insisted that the confirm'ation of the
claim gave the claimant a perfect title, and that he could not
be divested of title to any lands embraced in the decree of confirmation by a patent that excluded a portion of them. The

DOMINGUEZ DE GUYER v. BANNING.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of California said: "A patent, issued under
the act of 1851, is, as has often been held by this court, the
final act in proceedings instituted for the confirmation of
the claim of the patentee to land which had been granted by
the former Government, and for the segregation of such lands
from the public lands of the United States; and it is a record
which binds both the Government and the claimant, and cannot be attacked by either party, except by direct proceedings
instituted for that purpose. Leese v. Clark, 18 California, 535.
While it-stands, the claimant, or those deriving title through
him, will not be permitted to aver that the claim comprised
other or different lands from those mentioned in the patent.
. . . It is contended by the plaintiffs that the survey,
which is incorporated into the patent, does not accord with
the decree of confirmation, and that they are entitled to
rely upon the decree-which is also incorporated into the
patent-for title to lands within the decree, but not within
the survey. This position cannot be maintained consistently
with the views already expressed as to the nature and effect
of the patent. The patent purports to convey the lands described in the survey, and its scope cannot be extended, nor
on the other hand can it be limited, by showing that the
decree comprised a greater or less area than the survey. Nor
can the claimant, after admitting - as he must - the conclusive effect of the patent, make out title to lands not conveyed
by the patent, by the production of the proceedings which culminated in the patent. The patent, while it remains in force,
conclusively determines what lands the claimant was entitled
The
to under his claim and the decree of confirmation.
is
in
it
that
show
nor
claimant can neither reform the patent
also
any respect incorrect, in an action of ejectment." See
Moore v. Wilkinson, 13 California, 478; Cassidy v. Carr, 48
California, 339; Gallagher v. Riley, 49 California, 473, 477;
Carey v. Brown, 58 California, 180, 185; People v. San Francisco, 75 California, 388; Wright v. Seymour, 69 California, 122.
And as said by Mr. Justice Field in Moore v. Wilkinson, 13
California, 488, "the fifteenth section of the act of Congress
of 1851 provides that the final decree of confirmation and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of thd Court.

patent shall be conclusive between the United States and the
claimants only, and shall not affect the interests of third persons. If conclusive between the United States and the claimants, it must be equally sQ between persons holding under
either of those parties."
In our opinion the adjudged cases and the evidence in the
cause leave no room to doubt the soundness of the conclusions
announced by the Supreme Court of the State, namely: 1.
That the lands in controversy are not embraced by the patent
issued to the petitioners under the proceedings before the
Board of Land Commissioners appointed under the act of
1851; 2. The patent having been accepted by the patentees,
and being uncancelled, the plaintiffs in this action, claiming
under the patentees, cannot recover lands not embraced by it,
even if such lands are embraced by the lines established by
the decree of confirmation - the conclusive presumption
being that the patent correctly locates the lands covered by
the confirmed grant.
It is proper to say that the court decides nothing
more in
this case than that the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover
possession of the specific lands here in controversy. In this
view it is unnecessary to decide whether the defendant Banning was entitled to a judgment on his cross complaint, nor
whether the lands under the navigable waters of the inner
bay of San Pedro, and those here in controversy or any part
thereof, passed to the State of California upon its admission
into the Union, or after the issuing of the patent of 1858.
Judcgment affirmed.

