OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

than the right to the vein which is the occasion of the location.
But without determining what would be the rights acquired
under a surface location based upon a discovery in a tunnel, it
is enough to hold, following the plain language of tie statute,
that the discovery of the vein in the tunnel, worked according to the provisions of the statute, gives a right to the possession of the vein to the same length as if discovered from
the surface, and that a location on the surface is not essential
to a continuance of that right. We do not mean to hold that
such right of possession can be maintained without compliance with the provisions of the local statutes in reference to
the record of the claim, or without posting in some suitable
place, conveniently near to the place of discovery, a proper
notice of the extent of the claim - in other words, without
any practical location. For in this case notice was posted at
the mouth of the tunnel, and no more suitable place can be
suggested, and a proper notice was put on record in the office
named in the statute.
We are of opinion, therefore, that -the question considered
must be answered in the negative. There is no error in the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado, and it is
Affirmed.

in re JOHNSON, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 13. Original.

Submitted April 26, 1897. -

Decided May 10, 189T.

On July 24, 1896, a warrant was issued by a commissioner for the Southern
District of the Indian Territory to arrest Johnson upon the charge of
rape, alleged to have been committed upon one Pearl McCormick on the
same day. Subsequently, and on the 9th of October, at a regular term
of the United States court for that district, he was indicted, and on the
17th of October was arraigned, tried and convicted by a jury, and is now
under sentence of death. On July 25, the day following the commission
of the offence, a warrant, issued by a commissioner for the Eastern District of Texas, charging him with the same crime, was placed in the hands
of the marshal for that district, who demanded of the marshal of the

IN

RE JOHNSON, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

Southern District of the Indian Territory the surrender of the petitioner
in obedience to said writ, but the same was refused. It does not appear
when this demand was made, or whether it was before or after the 1st
day of September. It further appeared that, at the time of the commission of the offence, the United States court for the Eastern District of
Texas was not in session, and that no term of said court was held until
the third Monday of November, after petitioner had been tried, convicted
and sentenced to death. Held, that if the petitioner was actually in the
custody of the marshal on the ist of September, his subsequent indictment and trial were valid, though in the first instance he might have been
illegally arrested.
it is the settled doctrine of this court that a court having possession of a
person or property cannot be deprived of the right to deal with such
person or property until its jurisdiction is exhausted, and that no other
court has the right to interfere with such custody and possession.

THIS was a petition for a writ of heabeas corpus to obtain
the release of the petitioner from the custody of the marshal
of the Southern District of the Indian Territory, who now
holds him under sentence of death for the crime of rape.
From the petition, and the return to the rule to show cause,
it appears that on July 24, 1896, a warrant was issued by a
commissioner for the Southern District of the Indian Territory to arrest Johnson upon the charge of rape, alleged to
have been committed upon one Pearl McCormick on the same
day; that subsequently, and on the 9th of October, at a regular term of the United States court for that district, hp was
indicted, and on the 17th of October was arraigned, tried and
convicted by a jury, and is now under sentence of death.
It further appears that on July 25, the day following the
commission of the offence, a warrant, issued by a commissioner for the Eastern District of Texas, charging him with
the same crime, was placed in the hands of the marshal for
that district, who demanded of the marshal of the Southern
District of the Indian Territory the surrender of the petitioner in obedience to said writ, but the same was refused.
It does not appear when this demand was made, or whether
it was before or after the 1st day of September. It further
appeared that, at the time of the commission of the offence,
the United States court for the Eastern District of Texas was
not in session, and that no term of said court was held until

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the third Monday of INovember, after petitioner had been
tried, convicted and sentenced to death.
Upon this state of facts the petitioner claimed that the
United States court for the Southern District of the Indian
Territory had no jurisdiction of the case; but that, under the
provisions of an act of Congress, cited in the opinion, the court
for the Eastern District of Texas retained jurisdiction of all
offences committed within the Southern District of the Indian
Territory, where the punishment was death or imprisonment
at hard labor, until September 1, 1896, and that the United
States court for the Eastern District of Texas had sole and
exclusive jurisdiction over his offence.
Mr. John J. Weed for petitioner.
Mr. Solicitor General opposing.
MR. JUSTIcE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case raises the question whether the United States
court for the Southern District of the Indian Territory had
jurisdiction to try and condemn the petitioner under the circumstances above set forth.
The following statutes are pertinent in this connection: By
the fifth section of the act " to establish a United States court
in the Indian Territory," etc., approved March 1, 1889, c. 333,
ยง 5, 25 Stat. 783, it is-enacted "that the court hereby established shall have exclusive original jurisdiction over all offences
against the laws of the United States, committed within the
Indian Territory as in this act defined, not punishable by death
or imprisonment at hard labor"; by the seventeenth section
"that the Chickasaw Nation, and the portion of the Choctaw
Nation" within certain described boundaries (including the
locus of this crime), "and all that portion of the Indian Territory not annexed to the district of Kansas by the act approved January 6, 1883, and not set apart and occupied by
the five civilized tribes, shall, from and after the passage of

IN

RE JOHNSON, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

this act, be annexed to and constitute a part of the Eastern
Judicial District of the State of Texas, for judicial purposes."
The eighteenth section provides that sessions of said court
shall be held twice in each year at Paris; "and the United
States courts, herein provided to be held at Paris shall have
exclusive original jurisdiction of all offences committed against
the laws of the United States within the limits of that portion of the Indian Territory attached to the Eastern Judicial
District of the State of Texas by the provisions of this act,
of which jurisdiction is not given by this act to the court
herein established in the Indian Territory."
Taking these sections together, it is clear that jurisdiction
was vested in the new court, created by the act, over all
minor offences against the laws of the United States committed within the Indian Territory; but that jurisdiction of
all offences punishable by death or by imprisonment at hard
labor was conferred upon the United States court for the
Eastern District of Texas over that portion of the Indian
Territory described in section seventeen.
This jurisdiotion was expressly continued by -section thirtythree of the act of May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81, "to provide a
temporary government for the Territory of Oklahoma."
On March 1, 1895, an act was passed "to provide for the
appointment of additional judges of the United States court
in the Indian Territory," etc. 28 Stat. 693. The ninth section of that act reads as follows:
"SEc. 9. That the United States court in the Indian Territory shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all offences
committed in said Territory, of which the United States court
in the Indian Territory now has jurisdiction, and after the first
day of September, 1896, shall have exclusive original jurisdiction
of all offences against the laws of the United States, committed
in said Territory, except such cases as the United States court
at Paris, Texas, Fort Smith, Arkansas, and Fort Scott, Kansas,
shall have acquiredjurisdiction of before that time. .
"All laws heretofore enacted conferring jurisdiction upon
United States courts held in Arkansas, Kansas and Texas,
outside of the limits of the Indian Territory, as defined by

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

law, as to offences committed in said Indian Territory, as
herein provided, are hereby repealed, to take effect on September 1, 1896; and the jurisdiction now conferred by law
upon said courts is hereby given from and after the date
aforesaid to the United States court in the Indian Territory:
Provided,That in all criminal cases where said courts outside
of the Indian Territory shall have, on September 1, 1896, acquired jurisdiction, they shall retain jurisdiction to try and
finally dispose of such cases."
The case evidently turns upon the construction of this last
section. This section had three purposes: First, to enable
the United States court in the Indian Territory to retain the
jurisdiction it then had under the fifth section of the act of
March 1, 1889, of all offences against the laws of the United
States, not punishable by death or by imprisonment at hard
labor; second, to give it jurisdiction after September 1, 1896,
of all offences whatever, except of such cases as the courts in
Texas, Arkansas and Kansas had acquired jurisdiction of before that time; third, to repeal all laws conferring jurisdiction upon these courts after that date, and to vest jurisdiction
of the same upon United States courts in the Indian Territory, with a proviso repeating the exception above indicated.
Now, if the United States court for the Eastern District of
Texas had "acquired jurisdiction" of this case, manifestly it
was entitled to try the petitioner, but otherwise not. The
fact that the crime was committed on the 24th of July had no
bearing upon the question, since jurisdiction was vested in the
United States court in the Indian Territory, not of crimes or
offences committed after September first, but of all offences
in that Territory, of which the Texas court had not acquired
jurisdiction before that date. In this view the date when the
crime was committed is wholly immaterial, and the case of
Caha v. United States, 152 U. S. 211, is inapplicable. Jurisdiction is acquired under this statute, not by the commission
of an offence, but by service of process upon the person.
Herndon v. Ridgway, 17 How. 424; Chafee v. Hayward,
20 How. 208, 215; Boswell's Lessee v. Otis, 9 How. 336, 348;
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Mexican Central'Railway

IN

RE JOHNSON, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194. In this connection jurisdiction of
the "case," i.e. the crime, is undistinguishable from jurisdiction of the person who is charged with the crime.
We know of no reason why the rule, so frequently applied
in cases of conflicting jurisdiction between Federal and state
courts, should not determine this question. Ever since the
case of Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506, it has been ihe
settled doctrine of this court that a court having possession
of a person or property cannot be deprived of the right to
deal with such person or property until its jurisdiction is
exhausted, and that no other court has the right to interfere
with such custody or possession. This rule was reaffirmed in
Tarble's case, 13 Wall. 397; in Robb v. Connolly, ill U. S.
624; and In re Spangler, 11 Michigan, 298, and with reference to personal property has been so often restated as to
have become one of the maxims of the law. Taylor v. Carryl,
20 How. 583; Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450; Ellis v. Davis,
109 U. S. 485; Krippendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276; Covell
v. ieyman, 111 U. S. 176; Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S.
608; Moran v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256; In re Chetwood, 165
U. S. 443.
The material facts of the case, upon which the petitioner
relies, are: That on July 25, a warrant was issued by a
United States commissioner for the Eastern District of Texas,
charging him with the crime for which a warrant had already
been issued against him by a commissioner of the Indian Territory, and upon which he seems to have been arrested by the
marshal. A demand was made by the Texas marshal upon the
marshal of the Indian Territory, but neither the petition nor
the return to the rule to show cause shows that the demand
was made before September first. Assuming that the commissioner for the Southern District of the Indian Territory
exceeded his authority in issuing and the marshal in executing his warrant of arrest, it does not follow that the subsequent indictment and conviction were void. If the petitioner
was in the actual custody of the marshal on September first,
his subsequent indictment and trial were valid, though in the
first instance he might have been illegally arrested.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Thus in the Ship Richmond v. United States, 9 Cranch, 102,

an illegal seizure of a vessel was made in the waters of a foreign power by a vessel belonging to the navy for a violation
of the embargo act, and it was held that, although the seizure
within the territorial jurisdiction of a foreign power was an
offence against that power, this court could take no cognizance of it, and the majority of the court was of opinion that
the law did not connect that trespass with the subsequent
seizure by the civil authorities under the process of the District Court, so as to annul the proceedings of that court
against the vessel. This ruling was approved in The Merino,
9 Wheat. 391, 402. Indeed, there are many authorities which
go to the extent of holding that, in criminal cases, a forcible
abduction is no sufficient reason why the party should not
answer when brought within the jurisdiction of the court
which has the right to try him for such an offence, and presents no valid objection to his trial in such court. Kerr v.
Illinois, 119 U. S. 436, 444; Ex parte Scott, 9 B. & C. 446,
(1829); _Lopez & Sattler's case, 1 Dearsly & Bell's Crown

Cases, 525; State v. Smith, 1 Bailey So. Car. Law, 283, (1829);
State v. Brewster, 7 Vermont, 118, (1835); Dows' case, 18

Penn. St. 37, (1851); State v. Ross & Mann, (1866) 21 Iowa
467. Although it has been frequently held that if a defendant in a civil case be brought within the process of the court
by a trick or device, the service will be set aside and he will
be discharged from custody. Union Sugar Refinery v. uathiessen, 2 Cliff. 304; Wells v. Gurney, 8 B. & C. 769; Snelling
v. Watrous, 2 Paige, 314; Williams v. Bacon, 10 Wend. 636;
.Metcalf v. Clark, 41 Barb. 45; Stein v. Valkenburg, 3 B. & E.
65; Williams v. Reed, 5 Dutcher, 385; Carpenter v. Spooner,
2 Sand. 917; Pfiner v. Erapfell, 28 Iowa, 27; Moynahan v.
Wilson, 2 Flippen, 130; Small v. Montgomery, 17 Fed. Rep.

865; Kaufman v. Kennedy, 25 Fed. Rep. 785. The law will
not permit a person to be kidnapped or decoyed within the
jurisdiction for the purpose 'of being compelled to answer to a
mere private claim; but in criminal cases the interests of the
public override that which is, after all, a mere privilege
from arrest.

BURDON

SUGAR REFINING CO. v. PAYNE.
Syllabus.

But in this case there was nothing of the kind. The crime
was committed and the prisoner arrested within the Territory,
and within the local jurisdiction of the territorial court. Had
he been arrested without warrant by the marshal, or even by
a private individual, and detained in custody until after the
first of September, he might then have been indicted, although,
perhaps, an action might have lain against the person so arresting him for false imprisonment. If the jurisdiction of the
Texas court had attached, or, in the language of the statute,
had been "acquired," before September first, that would
have been a good defence; but, as already stated, all that
had been done was to issue a warrant which was never served,
and there is nothing to show that a demand was made for the
petitioner before the first of September. Whether, if such
demand had been made, that would have itself vested the
Texas court with priority of jurisdiction, is a question we are
not called upon to discuss. It is clear that the mere issue of
a warrant was not sufficient.
Denied.
The petition must be

BURDON CENTRAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. PAYNE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 722. Submitted April 12, 1897. -Decided

May 10, 1891.

P. and P., owners of three sugar plantations in Louisiana, leased the sugarhouse on one of them with all its machinery, and such defined land in that
plantation a's might be found necessary for its use, to F. and F. for a
term of years. The lessees agreed to buy during the term, and the lessors agreed to sell and deliver to them during that time, the sugar-cane
grown on the three plantations. Elaborate provisions were made respecting the conduct of the business, and the manner of fixing from time to
time the price of the cane. The thirteenth article was as follows: "The
price of cane as above determined shall be paid as follows: Two and T
dollars per ton shall be paid every Monday, for the cane delivered during

