OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

and admiralty jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution and
laws of the United States upon the District Courts of the
United States is exclusive. A lien upon a ship for repairs or
supplies, whether created by the general maritime law of the
United States, or by a local statute, is a jus in re, a right of
property in the vessel, and a maritime lien, to secure the performance of a maritime contract, and therefore may be enforced by admiralty process in rem in the District Courts of
the United States. When the lien is created by the general
maritime law, for repairs or supplies in a foreign port, no one
doubts at the present day that, under the decisions in The
Moses Taylor and The Rine, 4 Wall. 411, 555, above cited,
the admiralty jurisdiction in rem of the courts of the United
States is exclusive of similar jurisdiction of the courts of the
State. The contract and the lien for repairs or supplies in a
home port, under a local statute, are equally maritime, and
equally within the admiralty jurisdiction, and that jurisdiction
is equally exclusive.
The necessary result is that the petition ought to have been
dismissed; but, in accordance with the usual practice upon
reversing a judgment of the highest court of a State, the
proper form of judgment is
Judgment reversed, and case remanded for further _proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.
MR. JusTicE BREWER

did not hear the argument or take any

part in the decision of this case.

PECK v.

IEURICII.

OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
No. 289.

Argued April 26, 27, 1897. -Decided

1897.
May 24%,

A judgment cannot be affirmed upon a ground not taken at the trial, unless
of
It is made clear beyond doulSt that this could not prejudice the rights
the plaintiff in error.

PECK v. HEURICH.
Statement of the Case.
By the common law, prevailing in the District of Columbia, an agreement
by an attorney at law to prosecute, at his own expense, a suit to recover
land in which he personally has and claims no title or interest, present
or contingent; in consideration of receiving a certain proportion of what
he may recover, is unlawful and void for champerty.
A deed, conveying lands in the District of Columbia to an attorney at law
and another person, in trust that the grantees should sue for, take possession of, and sell the lands, and that the attorney should retain one
third of the proceeds, after paying out of it all the costs and expenditures, and that the other two thirds, clear of any costs or charges whatever, should be paid to the grantors is void for champerty, and will pot
sustain an action by the grantees to recover part of the lands from third
persons.

THIS was an action of ejectment, brought September 20,
1892, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by
Ezra J. Peck and Leo Simmons, trustees, against Christian
Heurich, to recover land in the District of Columbia. The
defendant pleaded the general issue.
At the trial the plaintiffs, as stated in the bill of exceptions,
offered in -evidence a deed dated and recorded November 8,
1828, from William A. Bradley, purporting to convey to Ann
Bartlett in fee simple the real estate described in the declaration, together with other real estate, in consideration of the
sum of $2450; "and thereupon counsel for plaintiffs announced
to the court that they proposed to prove that the plaintiffs
and defendant traced their respective titles to the land in controversy from said Ann Bartlett as a common source of titlewhich defendant, by his counsel, then and there denied."
The plaintiffs then called4hree witnesses who testified that
Anna L. Peck and ten other persons named were the heirs of
Ann Bartlett. These witnesses were an uncle and aunt of Anna
L. Peck, and her husband, Ezra J. Peck. Upon their crossexamination it appeared that the heirs of Ann Bartlett were
first informed that they had any title to these lands by Leo
Simmons in 1890.
The plaintiffs then offered in evidence the record of a deed
dated October 20, 1891, from the persons before shown to be
the heirs of Ann Bartlett, and from the husbands and wives
of those who were married, describing themselves as all the
heirs of Ann Bartlett, and reciting that they executed this
VOL. CLXvii-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

deed, "believing it to be for their interest and convenience to
do so," and purporting, for the consideration of five dollars,
to convey to Peck and Simmons, trustees, in fee simple, all
the real estate in the District of Columbia of which Ann
Bartlett died seized, and especially the land conveyed to her
by Bradley by the deed of November 8, 1828. The conveyance by the heirs of Ann Bartlett to the plaintiffs was
expressed to be upon the following trusts:
"In trust, nevertheless, to and for the following uses and
purposes, namely: to take and hold possession of the said real
estate, and to institute and prosecute to a final conclusion in
their own names any and every action, suit or proceeding,
in law and in equity, or otherwise however, for the possession
of said real estate, if in their judgment expedient, and to compromise, pay for and purchase any outstanding claim or title
against said real estate, if in their judgment expedient, and
generally to do any and everything in their judgment expedient, which may be necessary to vest in them a perfect
and unencumbered title in fee simple to, and the recovery of
possession of, said real estate; and upon the vesting in them
of a perfect and unencumbered title in fee simple, and the
recovery of the possession of said real estate, or before and
without the same, and without such proceedings, acts and
doings, as they may think best, and at any time, to sell
and convey said real estate, or any part thereof, in fee simple,.
or in any quantity of estate or estates, to any person or
persons, and for such price and upon such terms as they may
in their best judgment consider for the interest of the parties
conceried, and upon such sale or sales to convey the title sold
to the purchaser or purchasers without liability on the part of
the purchaser or purchasers to see to the application of the
purchase money; and out of the purchase moneys or the full
amount said property may sell for, it is distinctly understood
between the parties to this indenture,, that the. said Leo
Simmons, one of the trustees or parties of the second part
shall retain 331 per cent, or one third, after paying all expenses, costs and expenditures of the said parties of the second
part, in the execution of this trust, out of the same, and the

PECK v. HEURICH.
Statement of the Case.

other two thirds, or 662 per cent, of said purchase money,
clear of any coAt or charges whatever, to pay the heirs of said
Ann Bartlett, their heirs or assigns, according to their respective interest; and it is further understood between 'the
parties to this indenture that should Leo Simmons die after
suit has been begun for the recovery of any said property,
and before a settlement shall have been made, then in that
case the court having jurisdiction shall appoint a trustee to
act in his stead and pay over to the heirs or assigns of the
said Simmons such profits as he would have been entitled to
after paying said costs and expenditures."
The plaintiffs also offered in evidence records of deeds dated
June 22, 1892, of the same real estate from Mr. and Mrs. Peck
to H. Austin Clark, as trustee, and from Clark to Peck and
Simmons, as trustees under the deed of October 20, 1891.
The defendant objected to the admission of the records of
the deeds of October 20, 1891, and June 22, 1892, upon three
grounds: First. That they were not recorded until after this
suit was brought. Second. That the deed of October 20, 1891,
was Pot recorded within six months after its date. Third.
That buth deeds were champertous on their face.
The presiding judge sustained the third objection, and declined to admit records of the deeds in evidence, on the ground
that they were champertous on their face; and expressed no
opinion upon the other objections.
The bill of exceptions stated that "thereupon the plaintiffs'
counsel announced to the court that the refusal of the court to
admit the aforesaid records of said three deeds in evidence
broke the continuity of plaintiffs' title, and that they would
therefore rest their case. Whereupon the court instructed the
jury to render a verdict for the defendant, which was done."
Judgment was rendered on the verdict; and the plaintiffs
duly excepted to the ruling excluding the deeds, and to the
instruction to return a verdict for the defendant, and appealed
to the Court of Appeals, which, without considering the first
and second objections made to the deeds at the trial, affirmed
the judgment upon two grounds: First. That the deeds were
champertous. Second. That the plaintiffs had not introduced

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

any evidence that William A. Bradl6y, the grantor of Ann
Bartlett, had any title, or was ever in possession, or had any
right to the possession, or that the State had ever granted the
property; and the plaintiffs therefore had not been prejudiced
by the exclusion of the deeds even if they were valid. 6 App.
D. C. 273. The plaintiffs sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Franklin -f. Mackey and Mr. Arthur A. Birney for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. W. F. Mattingly and Mr. Leon Tobriner for defendants in error.'
MR. JusTICE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion 'of the court.
One ground taken in the opinion of the Court of Appeals,
and at the argument in this court, in. support of the judgment
for the defendant, was that, independently of the question of
the validity of the deeds to the plaintiffs, they could not maintain this action, because they had not complied with the rule
of the law of Maryland, in force in the District of Columbia,
by which, in order to maintain an action of ejectment, the
plaintiff must show that he has the legal title in the land and
the right of possession, and cannot establish this without first.
showing that the land had been granted by the State, unless
both parties are shown to claim title from the same source.
'lfitchell v. Mitchell, 1 Maryland, 44; Anderson v. Smith, 2
Mackey, 275.
But this ground is not open to the defendant upon the
record. No such objection to the introduction of the deed in
evidence was made at the trial. The course of things at the
trial, so far as regards this point, was as follows: The plaintiffs gave in evidence, without objection, the deed from William A. Bradley to AnnBartlett, and said in open court that
they proposed to prove the fact that the plaintiffs and the
defendant traced their respective titles to the land in controversy from Ann Bartlett as a common source of title; and

PECK v. HEURICH.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant denied that fact. The plaintiffs, by way of
proving their own.title under Ann Bartlett, which was a necessary step towards proving the fact so controverted, introduced evidence that the grantors in the deed of October 20,
1891, were the heirs of Ann Bartlett, and then offered that
deed in evidence, and, upon the court's ruling it out as void
for champerty, declared to the court that this ruling broke
the continuity of their title, and that they therefore rested
their case. The plaintiffs at the outset having given notice of
their intention to prove that Ann Bartlett was the common
source of the titles both of themselves and of the defendant,
and having been prevented from tracing their own title from
her, any-amount of proof that the defendant derived his title
from her became wholly immaterial, and there was no occasion for the plaintiffs to make a specific offer of such proof.
It was more respectful to. the presiding judge, and sufficient
to preserve the plaintiffs' rights in the appellate court, to take
the course, which they did, of resting their case, and taking
an exception to the exclusion of evidence without which they
could not possibly recover. The plaintiffs, by reason of the
ruling excluding the deed to them, had never been permitted
to introduce the first step in the proof of their case, and, so
long as that ruling was unreversed, had no interest in offering
any evidence of the defendant's source of title. It cannot be
assumed that the plaintiffs would not have introduced such
evidence, if the court had given them a standing in the case
which would have made it avail them to do so. A judgment
cannot be affirmed upon a ground not taken at the trial, unless
it is made clear beyond doubt that this could not prejudice the
rights of the plaintiff in error. Deery v. Cray, 5 Wall. 795,
808; Vicksburg & Meridian Railroad v. O'Brien, 119 U. S.
99, 103; Jones v. Sisson, 6 Gray, 288; Jones v. Wolcott, 15

Gray, 541.
We are then. brought to the consideration of the principal
question in the case, whether the deeds to the plaintiffs were
void for champerty.
In many parts of the United States, and probably in Maryland and consequently in the District of Columbia, the ancient

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

English statutes of champerty and maintenance have either
never been adopted, or have become obsolete, so far as they
prohibited all conveyances of lands held adversely. 4 Kent
Coin. 447; Roberts .v. Cooper, 20 How. 467; Sohaferman v.
O'Brien, 28 Maryland, 565; .fatthews v. Hlevner, 2 App. D. C.
349.
But according to the common law, as generally recognized
in the United States, wherever it has not been modified by
statute, and certainly as prevailing in the District of Columbia,
agreement by an attorney at law to prosecute at his
own an
expense a suit to recover
land in which he personally has
and claims no title or interest, present or contingent; in consideration of receiving a certain proportion of what he may
recover, is contrary to public policy, unlawful and void, as
tending to stir up baseless litigation. 4 Kent Com. 447, note;
.AfPherson v. Cox, 96 U. S. 404, 416; Stanton v. Iaskin, 1
McArthur, 558; Johnson v. Van Wyek, 4 App. D. C. 294;
Brown v. Beauchamv, 5 T. B. Monroe, 413; Belding v.
Smythe, 138 Mass. 530; Stanley v. Jones, 7 Bing. 369, 377;
S. C. 5 Moore & Payne 193, 206.
The trust declared in the deed under which these plaintiffs
claim title is to take possession of the real estate, to bring all
suits necessary for that purpose, to pay off outstanding claims
if deemed by the trustees to be expedient, and to do everything necessary to vest in them a perfect and unencumbered
title and the possession of the lands, and after getting, with
or without suit, the title and possession, to sell and convey
the lands. The deed states that "it is distinctly understood
between the parties" that, out of the purchase money received,
"Leo Simmons, one of the trustees or parties of the second
part, shall retain 33* per cent, or one third, after paying all
expenses, costs and expenditures of the said parties of the second
part in the execution of the trust, out of the same"; that the
other two thirds of the purchase money, "clear of any costs
or charges whatever," shall be paid to the heirs of Ann Bartleti, their heirs or assigns, according to their respective interests; and "that should Leo Simmons 'die after suit has been
begun for the recovery of any said property, and before a

PECK v. HEURICH.
Opinion of the Court.

settlement shall have been made, then in that case the court
having jurisdiction shall appoint a trustee to act in his stead
and pay over to the heirs or assigns of the said Simmons such
profits as he would have been entitled to after paying said
costs and expenditures."
The deed clearly expresses the intention of the parties that
Simmons shall receive one third, and the grantors two thirds,
of the gross proceeds of the real estate conveyed. The intention that all costs and expenses of obtaining title and possession of the lands, by suit or purchase or otherwise, shall be
borne wholly by Simmons, and in no part by the grantors, is
clearly shown, in the first place, by the stipulation thiat he
shall receive one third of the proceeds "after paying all expenses, costs and expenditures of" the trustees in the execution of the trust "out of the same " - evidently meaning out
of his third part. But any possible doubt which might arise
upon this clause, taken by itself, is removed by the next clause,
which stipulates that the two other thirds of the proceeds shall
be paid to the heirs of Ann Bartlett, "clear of any costs or
charges whatever," as well as by the final clause, which stipu-,
lates that, should Simmons die after bringing suit and before
making a settlement, there shall be paid to his heirs or assigns
"such profits as he would have been entitled to after paying
said costs and expenditures."
Upon the nature and effect of the agreement made by the
attorney with the grantors in this deed, this court concurs in
the opinion expressed by the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia, as follows: "lHe agreed to pay the costs of the
litigation; he agreed to take as his compensation a part of the
land which was the subject of the suit, or a part of the proceeds of sale of it, which amounts to the same thing; and his
compensation was not a fixed sum of money, payable out of
the proceeds of sale, but a contingent share of the very thing
to be recovered, or of the money that might be received by
way of settlement or compromise; and the character of the
enterprise, on the part of the attorney, was so plainly a speculative one, that in the deed the net results to him a'e mentioned as ' profits.' If this be not champerty, we fail to see

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

wherein there can be champerty." "We must regard an
agreement by any attorney to undertake the conduct of a litigation on his own account, to pay the costs and expenses
thereof, and to receive as his compensation a portion of the
proceeds of the recovery, or of the'thing in dispute, as obnoxious to the law against champerty; and that this was the
character of the arrangement in the present case we are entirely satisfied. The very thing in dispute was conveyed, or
sought to be conveyed, in advance, to the attorney and an
associate, for the express purpose of enabling the attorney to
conduct the litigation on his own account and at his own cost
and expense; and in consideration of this he was to retain at
the end of the litigation one third of what had been conveyed
to him, and was to account to his clients for the other two
thirds. This was certainly an agreement on his part to take
as his compensation a part of the thing in dispute, and it does
not alter the case at all that the land when recovered was to
be sold. That was only the practical mode for a division of
proceeds between the parties to the enterprise." 6 App.
D. C. 283, 284.
The deed, as appears upon its face, having been made to
carry out the champertous agreement, was unlawful, and
passed no title; and the joinder of Peck as co-trustee in the
deed could not give it validity.
The result is that this action cannot be maintained by the
trustees claiming under the deed, although a similar action
might have been maintained by the grantors in their own
names. Burnes v. Scott, 117 U. S. 582, 590, and Ililton v.
Woods, L. R. 4 Eq. 432, 439, there cited.
Judgment affrmed.

