OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

rendered by Willoughby in cause No. 2373. He failed of recovery in 8118, through which he lost the title to the Palace
Market lot, and Willoughby lost the contingent interest in the
*mesne profits expected to be recovered therein, in addition to
the land. Willoughby's fee to the extent of the $5000 claimed
was not contingent, but certain and fixed. Having as a matter
of fact, through success in No. 2373, settled the title to a very
valuable part of the lot, and enabled Mackall to retake peaceable possession thereof without further litigation necessary to
assure him therein, we think his lien attached thereto under
the construction of the contract declared on the former appeal, and which is adhered to."
We have not overlooked the ingenious argument of the
counsel for the appellant, based on the phraseology of a prior
agreement, and on statements of the briefs filed on behalf of
Mackall, in the case of Richiards v. Mackall; but, even if it
were open for us to regard those papers, we do not perceive
that they clearly point to a different construction of the present agreement than that imported by its own terms.
Upon the whole, we accept the interpretation put upon the
contract by the Court of Appeals as a reasonable one; and the
decree of the Court of Appeals is
Afflmed.

iMAcGREAL v. TAYLOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 75. Argued October 28, 1896.-

Decided May 24, 189T.

An infant female was the owner of an unimproved lot in the city of Washington upon which there were valid liens for unpaid purchase money and
taxes. In order that those liens might be discharged and the property
improved, she borrowed $A000, and executed a deed of trust upon the
lot to secure the loan. Part of the money so borrowed was used to pay
off prior liens and taxes, and the balance was applied by her, or under
her directions, in improving the lot. Upon arriving at majority, she
disaffirmed her contract and deed of trust, and refused to pity the money

MAcGREAL v. TAYLOR.
Syllabus.
borrowed by her. At the time the deed of trust was executed, no
inquiries were made as to her age, nor did she make any representations
in regard to it. Held,
(1) An infant's deed is voidable only, unless it appears upon its face to
be to his prejudice, in which case it may be deemed void; and
the infant is not estopped by his acts or declarations, or by his
silence, during infancy, from asserting, on arriving at full age or
within a reasonable time thereafter, the invalidity of such deed;
(2) If the money borrowed by the infant had been expended by her otherwise than in the improvement of her lot, the lender would have
been without remedy; for it is not a condition of the disaffirmance by an infant of a contract made during infancy that the consideration received be returned, if, prior to such disaffirmance and
during infancy, the specific thing received has been disposed of,
wasted or consumed and cannot be returned;
(3) Upon the disaffirmance by an infant of his contract, the contract is
annulled on both sides, and the parties revert to the same situation as if the contract had not been made;
(4) In this case, the infant having disaffirmed her deed, she is not entitled, as between herself and the lender, to be protected except in
the enjoyment of such rights in the property in question as she had
at the time the deed of trust was executed; and the money borrowed by her having gone into the property which she holds in its
improved condition, it is to be deemed to be in her hands within the
meaning of the rule which entitles the other party to recover such
of the consideration as remains in the infant's hands at the time
of disaffirmance. She is not entitled to make profit out of those
whose money has been used, at her request, in protecting and
improving her estate; but as the disaffirmance of her deed restores her rights in the property, a sale ought not to have the
effect of depriving her altogether of the interest she had at the
time the deed of trust was executed;
(5) The decree of sale in the present case was proper, but it was error to
give to the lender a preference in tue distribution of the proceeds
for the entire debt secured by the deed of trust, without reference
to the amount for which the property in its improved condition
might sell. The decree should direct the proceeds to be applied,
first, in repaying to the lender, with interest, the sums paid in
discharge of the prior liens and taxes; second, in paying to the
infant an amount equal to the value of the lot at the institution
of the suit (less such prior liens and taxes) without interest on
that amount, and without taking into consideration the value of
the improvements placed on the lot; and, third, in paying to the
appellees such of the proceeds of sale as may remain, not exceeding the balance due on the loan, with interest. This last sum
would represent, so far as may be, the value of the improvements
put upon the lot with the money borrowed. Any other decree will
VOL. CLxvi--44

OCTOBER TERM) 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
make the disaffirmance by the infant ineffectual, if the property,
upon being sold, does not bring more than the debt attempted to
be secured to the lender.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. Henry E. Davis for appellant.
on his brief.

Mr. W. P. Black was

Ikir. Job Barnard and Mr. William F. Mattingly for
appellees. JMr. James S. Edwards was on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE IARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By deed dated March 8, 1886, and duly recorded, an unimproved lot or parcel of land, in the city of Washington,
known as lot 49 in square 111, was conveyed by Henry C.
Porter to Seymour Cunningham and John S. Blair to secure
the balance of the unpaid purchase money therefor due to one
William Brough, evidenced by Porter's two promissory notes,
each for twelve hundred and fifty dollars, bearing even date
with the above trust deed, and payable to the order of Brough.
On the 3d day of September, 1887, Porter conveyed the
same property to Robert E. Moore and his wife Carlotta M.
Moore, to have and to hold the same to the grantees, their
heirs and assigns as tenants by the entirety. As part of the
consideration for this -last conveyance, the grantee, Carlotta
M. Moore, agreed to assume and pay the debt to Brough.
By deed bearing the swme date as the one from Porter to
Moore and wife, and executed contemporaneously therewith,
Robert E. Moore and Carlotta M. Moore conveyed the premises to Charles Early and Joseph T. Dyer in trust to secure
the sum of sixteen hundred dollars, being the balance of the
deferred purchase money due to Porter, and evidenced by the
promissory note of Moore and wife, payable to the order of
Porter.
On the 29th day of April, 1888, Robert E. Moore died, and
the premises in question became the absolute and separate
property of Carlotta M. Moore in fee simple, subject to the
prior liens.

MAcGREAL v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

In 1889 Mrs. Moore borrowed from Sarah Utermehle the
sum of eight thousand dollars for which she executed her note,
dated October 22, 1889, payable three years after date, with
interest at six per cent per annum, payable quarterly. In
order to secure the payment of that note, she conveyed by
deed on the same day the above premises and appurtenances
to William R. Woodward and Leroy M. Taylor and their
heirs as joint tenants, with the usual provisions for a release
of the lien in case of the payment of the note; and also in
trust to permit her, her heirs or assigns, to use and occupy the
described land and premises, and the rents, issues and profits
thereof, to take, have and apply to and for her and their sole
use and benefit, until default should be made in the payment
of the debt thereby secured or any instalment of principal or
interest, as the same became due and payable, or any proper
cost, charge, commission or expense in and about the same.
That deed contained the clause usually-found in such instruments, authorizing the trustees, upon any default in. the payment of the debt or of any instalment of principal or interest,
as the same should become due and payable, or any proper
cost, charge, commission or expense ii and about the same, to
sell the land and premises at public auction upon such terms
and conditions, at such time and place, and after such previous public advertisement as they or the survivor of them
should deem advantageous and proper; and to convey the
same in fee simple to and at the cost of the purchaser or purchasers thereof, who were not required to see to the application of the purchase money.
The last-named transaction was consummated pursuant to
an agreement between Mrs. Moore and Mrs. Utermehle, and
under the following circumstances. Mrs. Moore was in default
in respect of the payment of the sums secured by the above
trust deeds of 1886 and 1887, and being threatened with a
foreclosure and sale under those deeds, and having no property eXcept the premises in question, and desiring also to impriove the same by the erection of a substantial building for
the purposes of a home, applied to Mrs. Utermehle for a loan
of eight thousand dollars for the period above named, to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

secured by a deed of trust, in the usual form, on the land and
premises. She represented the title to the premises to be
good and unincumbered otherwise than by the above trust
deeds. Her application, the bill states, was accompanied by
an assurance upon her part that she would immediately commence the construction of a substantial brick building upon
the lot and premises, with suitable provisions to secure the
payment or application of all the proceeds of the loan "not
required to take up the said overdue notes, representing said
unpaid purchase money, taxes then due, expense of examination of title to said land and premises, conveyancing and other
incidental expenses incurred on account of the negotiation of
said loan, all of which were also to be taken up or paid therefrom towards such construction." Relying upon said premises
and the proposed security offered by her, eight thousand dollars was loaned by Ars. Utermehle to Mrs. Moore. Out of
that sum, pursuant to the agreement or understanding between Mrs. Moore and Mrs. Utermehle, the latter took up the
notes representing the unpaid purchase money secured by the
above trust deeds, and paid the taxes. then due on the property, together with the expense of examining the title and
other expenses, all amounting to $3291.99, which sum was
paid directly by Mrs. Utermehle to the holders of the notes
and the .parties to whom the expenses and taxes were payable. Thereupon Mrs. Moore procured the services of J. W.
Myers, a builder, and entered upon the construction of a substantial brick dwelling upon the lot and premises, as agreed
upon, and as the condition of the loan to her, and the balance
of the eight thousand dollars was expended in the purchase of
materials furnished for and used in its construction, and to
pay laborers, mechanics and others for work done thereon.
The house was completed, and is known as No. 1612 INineteenth street northwest. Mrs. Moore moved into it about two
months after its completion.
Subsequent to the loan, Mrs. Moore married the appellant
Wilburne P. MacGreal, and the house and lot is occupied by
them as a home.
Before the present suit was instituted, Mrs. MacGreal,

MAcGREAL v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

under date of June 13, 1890, addressed to Mrs. Taylor a communication, as follows: " In response to your recent communication calling attention to my non-payment of interest
upon the note held by you as the representative of Mrs.
Utermehle, I would say that I consider that I have not been
well treated in the entire transaction, and inasmuch as the
property now owned by me is threatened with a suit to enforce mechanics' liens now already filed, I have taken legal
advice upon the subject. As I was a minor at the time of
these transactions -the execution of the deed of trust, etc. I am advised that the affirmance or disaflirmance of the contract rests in my direction [discretion] when I become of age.
I therefore will not pay the interest demanded and at the
proper time will take such action as I may be advised to
protect my rights."
Subsequently, on the 23d of June, 1890, she executed and
placed of record an instrument, in which she gave notice that
she disaffirmed the deed of trust of October 22, 1889, and the
note described in it. On the same day she executed the following paper: "I hereby disaffirm a certain contract alleged
to have been entered into between -one Joseph W. Myers and
myself October 28, 1889, and I disclaim any and all liability
thereunder, for the reason that at the time of the making of
said alleged contract I was a minor under the age of twentyone years, and became of age June 20, 1890; of all which
take due notice." And on June 27, 1890, she executed, and
recorded July 14, 1890, a deed disaffirming the deed of trust
executed to Taylor and Woodward, upon the ground that
said deed had been executed and delivered when she was a
minor.
The quarter-yearly instalment of interest due the 22d day
of April, 1890, on the debt secured by the deed of October 22,
1889, not having been paid, after notice to Mrs. MacGreal
of its non-payment this action was instituted by Mrs. Utermehle on the 23d of June, 1890, for the recovery of the amount
due on the note given to her, and for a decree for the foreclosure of the deed of trust of October 22, 1889, and a sale of
the property in satisfaction of the amount due to her.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

She asked for such other and further relief in the premises
as the nature of the case required.
Admitting the execution of the deed to Woodward and
Taylor, and the note therein described, Mrs. MacGreal resisted
the relief asked upon the ground that at the date of the execution of the deed and note she was under the age of twentyone years, and within a reasonable time after reaching full
age she made and placed upon record an absolute disclaimer
of the alleged contract ; of which disclaimer and the reasons
assigned therefor, it is claimed, Mrs. Utermehle, the original
plaintiff and testatrix of the appellees, had due notice. Her
husband disclaimed in his answer any personal knowledge of
the matter in dispute, and insisted that the bill did not state
facts entitling the plaintiff to the relief asked.' Woodward
and Taylor, trustees, answered, admitting the allegations of
the bill, and expressing their submission to any decree that
might be just and proper. Indeed, the arrangement between
Mrs. Utermehle and Mrs. MacGreal was made in good faith
on each side.
It is not disputed that Mrs. MacGreal arrived at full age on
the 20th day of June, 1890. And it may be stated, as the
result of the testimony, that when the deed of October 22,
1889, was executed no inquiry was made as to her age, nor did
she make any representation on that subject.
In the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia a decree
was rendered dismissing the bill. But in the Court of Appeals
of the District that decree was reversed, and a decree passed
which adjudged that there was due from Mrs. MacGreal to
the executrices of Mrs. Utermehle the sum of $8000 with
interest at the rate of six per cent per annum until paid, and
the costs of suit ; and directing that, on default in the payment of principal, interest and costs aforesaid by a day
named, the lot in question with the improvements thereon
be sold and the proceeds applied in payment of such sum.
1 App. D. C. 359.
The principal propositions made on behalf of the appellants
are :
That the mortgage sought to be foreclosed and the note

MxcGREAL v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.-

described therein having been executed by the maker during
her minority, and without any fraud on her part, and nothing
in the way of ratification having occurred, it was competent
for the mortgagor, upon arriving at full age, to disaffirm the
contract altogether, and thus defeat the lien created by that
mortgage upon her property;
That while a minor may not, upon reaching his majority,
disaffirm his contract and retain such of the fruits of the contract as are in his hands "1in specie" at the time of disaffirmance, if he has parted with the specific thing received by him
under the contract, or if its form has been so changed that its
return in specie is impossible, his right to disaffirm cannot be
questioned ; and,
That the exercise of the right of disaffirmance is not, in
law, a fraud, although it may work hardship upon the other
party to the contract, nor is a failure to disclose the fact of
infancy at the time of entering into the contract a fraud that
will affect such right.
These propositions, it is said, are sustained by Tucker v.
Moreland, 10 Pet. 58, 70, 71, 73, 74, 77, and Sims v. .Everhardt,
102 U. S. 300, 301, 312.
Tucker v. Moreland was an action of ejectment, in which
plaintiff's right of recovery depended upon his having the
benefit of a deed of trust executed by an infant, but which he
disafiirmed after reaching full age. This court, speaking by
Mfr. Justice Story, said: "It is apparent, then, upon the English authorities, that however true it may be, that an infant
may so far bind himself by deed in certain cases, as that in
consequence of the solemnity of the instrument it'is voidable
only, and not void; yet that the instrument, however solemn,
is held to be void, if upon its face, it is apparent that it is to
the prejudice of the infant. This distinction, if admitted,
would go far to reconcile all the cases; for it would decide,
that a deed by virtue of its solemnity should be voidable only,
unless it appeared on its face to be to his prejudice, in which
case it would be void." "To give effect to such disaffirmance
it was not necessary that the infant should first place the other
party in 8tabu quo." " The result of the American decisions,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the court continued, "has been correctly stated by Mr. Chancellor Kent, in his learned Commentaries, 2 Com. Lect. 31, to
be, that they are in favor of construing the acts and contracts
of infants generally to be voidable only, and not void, and
subject to their ele ction, when they become. of age, either to
affirm or disallow them ; and that the doctrine of Zouch v.
Parsons,3 Burrow, 1794, has been, recognized and adopted as
law. It may be ,added, that they seem generally to hold,
that the deed of an infant conveying lands is voidable only,
and not void; unless, perhaps, the deed should manifestly
appear on the face of it to be to the prejudice of the infant;
and this upon the nature and solemnity, as well as the operation of the instrument." Again: "In many cases, the disaffirmance of a deed made during infancy, is a fraud upon the
other party. But this has never been held sufficient to avoid
the disaffirmance, for it would otherwise take away the very
protecton., which the law intends to throw around him to
guard him from the effects of his fo tly, rashness and miscon-duct. In Saunderson v. Marr, 1 I. B1. 75, it was held, that
a warrant of attorney, given by an infant, although there
appeared circumstances of fraud on his part, was utterly void;
even though the application was made to the equity side of
the court, to set aside a judgment founded on it. So, in ConPoe v. Birdsall,1 John. Cas. 127, a bond made by an infant,
who declared at the time, that he was of age, was held void,
notwithstanding his fraudulent declaration; for the court
said that a different decision would endanger all the rights of
infants. A similar doctrine was held by the court in Austin
v. Patton, 11 Serg. & Rawle, 309, 310. Indeed, the same
doctrine is to be found affirmed more than a century and a
half ago, in Johnson v. Pie, 1 Lev. 169; S. C. 1 Sid. 258;
1 Kebb. 913."
In Sims v. Everhardt it appeared that Mrs. Sims, a minor,
-her
husband uniting with her- sold and conveyed her
land to Mrs. Everhdrdt, who paid the purchase money. Some
doubt being expressed as to the age of the grantor, she stated
in wvriting on the deed that she was then over twenty-one
years of age. The purchaser went into possession, paid off a

IMIAcGREAL v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

mortgage and taxes on the property, continued in possession,
and made improvements up to her death. Subsequently Mrs.
Sims was divorced from her husband, for his fault, and shortly
afterwards she gave notice to the devisees of Mrs. Everhardt
that she disaffirmed the deed in question, and demanded possession of the land. That demand not having been complied
with, she brought suit against the devisees of her grantee to
set aside the deed and for an account of the rents and profits
of the land, "as well as of the amount she was in duty bound
to pay to the defendants on account of the purchase money
by the grantee, and the mortgage aforesaid." The court
below, upon final hearing, dismissed the bill. This court reversed the decree, holding that, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, including the fact that Mrs. Sims labored
under the disability of coverture when she made the deed,
her disaffirmance of it was within a reasonable time, and that
she was entitled to the decree asked. Mr. Justice Strong,
delivering the opinion of the court, said: "The remaining
question is whether she is estopped by anything which she
has done from asserting her right to the land in controversy.
In regard to this very little need be said. It is not insisted
that she did anything since she attained her majority which
can work an estoppel. All that is claimed is that when she
made her deed she asserted she was of age and competent to
convey. We are not, therefore, required to consider how far

a married woman can be estopped by her acts when she has
the single disability of coverture. The question is, whether
acts and declarations of an infant during infancy can estop
him from asserting the invalidity of his deed after he has attained his majority. In regard to this there can be no doubt,
founded either upon reason or authority. Without spending

time to look at the reason, the authorities are all one way.
An estoppel inpai8 is not applicable to infants, and a fraudulent representation of capacity cannot be an equivalent for
actual capacity. Brown v. McClune, 5 Sandf. Super. Ct. 224;
-Yeen v. Coleman, 39 Penn. St. 299. A conveyance by an infant
is an assertion of his right to convey. A conteniporaneous
declaration of his right or of his age adds nothing to what is

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

implied in his deed. An assertion of an estoppel against him
is but a claim that he has assented or contracted. But he can
no more do that effectively than he can make the contract
alleged to be confirmed." It may be observed that the court
did not decide, in that case, that Mrs. Sims was entitled to
the land without accounting to the estate of Mrs. Everhardt
for the purchase money, and for the amount paid in order to
discharge the mortgage debt upon it.
These cases do not determine the vital questions arising in
the~one before us. They undoubtedly do hold that an infant's
deed is voidable only, unless it appears upon its face to be to
his prejudice, in which case it may be deemed void; also, that
he is not estopped by his acts or declarations, however fraudulent, or by his silence, during infancy, from asserting, upon
arriving at full age or within a reasonable time thereafter,
the invalidity of such deed.
In the present case, it is beyond question that Mrs. MacGreal's deed, made while she was a widow and an infant, was
voidable and that she disaffirmed it within a reasonable time
after reaching her majority.
But does it follow that the plaintiffs are not entitled to relief on account of the money advanced by their testatrix, and
which was lent to be applied and was applied in making valuable improvements upon the lot owned by the infant?. If
the money obtained from Mrs. Utermehle, the repayment of
which was attempted to be secured by the deed of trust of
October 22, 1889, had been paid directly to the infant, and,
prior to the institution of this suit, had been all expended
otherwise than in the improvement of her lot, the case would
not be so difficult of solution ; for it is well settled that it is not
a condition of the disaffirmance by an infant of a contract made
during infancy that he shall return the consideration received
by him if, prior to such disaffirmance and during infancy, the
specific thing received has been disposed of, wasted or consumed and cannot be returned. In Boyden v. Boyden, 9 Met.
519, 521, Chief Justice Shaw, after observing that a contract
with an infant is binding upon -the other party until it is disaffirmed by the infant, said that if the infant "elects to disaf-

MAcGREAL v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

firm it, he annuls it on both sides, ab initio, and the parties
revert to the same situation as if the contract had not been
made. If the minor refuses to pay :.he price, as he may, the
contract of sale is annulled, and the goods revest in the vendor." In Green v. Green, 69 N. Y. 553, Chief Justice Church,
delivering the opinion of the court, said: " The right to repudiate is based upon the incapacity of the infant to contract,
and that incapacity applies as well to the avails as to the
property itself, and when the avails of the property are improvidently spent or lost by speculation or otherwise during
minority, the infant should not be held responsible for an inability to restore them. To do so would operate as a serious
restriction upon the right of an infant to avoid his contract,
and in many cases would destroy the right altogether." In
Monumental Building Association &c. v. Herman, 33 Maryland, 128, 133, it was said: "If the infant disaffirm an executed contract, and the specific consideration can be restored,
in whole or in part, the infant is treated as a trustee of the
other party, and must give it up; but where the articles received by him are consumed or the money spent, the party
advancing them is without a remedy." So in Chandler v.
Simmons, 97 Mass. 508, 514, the court said: " Another ground
relied on by the defendant is that the deed [by the infant]
cannot be avoided without a return of the consideration.
We do not understand that such a condition is ever attached
to the right of a minor to avoid his deed. If it were so, the
privilege would fail to protect him when most needed. It is
to guard him against the improvidence which is incident to
his immaturity, that this right is maintained. Gibson v.
Soper, 6 Gray, 279, 282; Boody v. McKenney, 23 Maine, 517.
If the minor, when avoiding his contract, have in his hands
any of its fruits specifically, the act of avoiding the contract
by which he acquired such property will divest him of all
right to retain the same; and the other party may reclaim it.
He cannot avoid in part only, but must make the contract
wholly void if at all; so that it will no longer protect him in
the retention of the consideration. Badger v. Pihinney,' 15
Mass. 359; Bigelow v. Kinney, 3 Vermont, 353. Or, if he

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

retains the use or disposes of such property after becoming of
age, it may be held as an affirmance of the contract by which
he acquired it, and thus deprive him of the right to avoid.
Boyden v. Boyden, 9 Met. 519; Robbins v. Eaton, 10 N. H.
561. But if the consideration has passed from his hands,
either wasted or expended during his minority, lie is not
thereby to be deprived of his right or capacity to avoid his
deed, any more than he is to avoid his executory contracts.
And the adult who deals with him must seek the return of
the consideration paid or delivered to the minor in the same
modes and with the same chances of loss in the one case as in
the other. Dana v. Stearns, 3 Cash. 372, 376. It is not necessary, in order to give effect to the disaffirmance of the deed
or contract of a minor, that the other party should be placed
in statu quo. Tucker v. Moreland, 10 Pet. 58, 65, 74 ; Shaw
v. Boyd, 5 S. & R. 309." See also 1 Am. Lead. Cases, 5th
ed. *224, *232, *249, *259; 3-fustard v. IWohlford's Heirs, 15
Gratt. 329, 340; Cresinger v. Welch's lessee, 15 Ohio, 156;
Eureka Co. v. Edwards, 71 Alabama, 248, 256; Corey v.
Burton, 32 Michigan, 30; Price v. Furman, 27 Vermont,
268, 271; Robinson v. Weeks, 56 Maine, 102, 107; Carpenter
v. Carpenter, 45 Indiana, 142, 146; Itarvey v. Briggs, 68
Mississippi, 60, 66 ; St. Louis &c. Railway v. fliggins, 44 Arkansas, 293, 297; Reynolds v. XcCurry, 100 Illinois, 356, 359;
Tyler's Infancy & Coverture, § 37, and authorities cited.
Does the present case come within the rule upon which Mrs.
MacGreal relies? Under the terms of the load,.the money
obtained from Mrs. Utermehle was used in lifting existing
valid mortgages from her lot and in placing substantial improvements upon it; and she is in actual possession of the lot
so improved and freed from the liens created by the deeds of
March 8, 1886, and September 3, 1887, and subject to which
she acquired the property. A court of equity will look at the
real transaction, and will do justice to the adult if it can be
done without disregarding or impairing the principle that allows an infant, upon arriving at majority, to disaffirm his contracts made during infancy. Mrs. MacGreal having disaffirmed
her deed of October 22, 1889, she is not entitled, as between

MAcGREAL v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

herself and the estate of Mrs. Utermehle, to be protected
except in the enjoyfnent of such rights in the property in
question as she had at the time it was incumbered by her disaffirmed deed of trust. She is not entitled to make profit out
of those whose money has been used, at her request, in protecting and improving her estate. Her lot was subject to
prior liens on account of the debts due to Brough and Porter
as well as for taxes. Those debts have been discharged, and
her property is no longer in any danger from them. The liability of her property for those debts when the deed of 1889
was executed cannot be questioned. These debts having been
paid by Mrs. Utermehie, the appellees are entitled, in equity,
to be subrogated to the rights of the persons who held them,
and who were about to foreclose the liens therefor when the
application was made to Mrs. Utermehle for the loan of $8000
to be used in meeting those debts and in improving the lot in
question. 1 Jones on Mortgages, §§ 874, 877, and authorities
cited. And within the meaning of the rule that, upon the
infant's disaffirmance of his contract, the other party is entitled to recover the consideration paid by him which remains
in the infant's hands or under his control, it may well be held
gross injustice will be done in this case if it be not so
-and
held -that the money borrowed from Mrs. Utermehle is, in
every just sense, in the hands of Mrs. MacGreal. To say that
the consideration paid to Mrs. MacGreal for the deed of trust
of 1889 is not in her hands, when the money has been put
into her property in conformity with the disaffirmed contract,
and notwithstanding such property is still held and enjoyed
by her, is to sacrifice substance to form, and to make the
privilege of infancy a sword to be used to the injury of
others, although the law intends it simply as a shield to protect the infant from injustice and wrong.
But we are of opinion that the court below erred in adjudging, as, in effect, it did adjudge, that the appellees are entitled
to have their entire debt first paid, even if all the proceeds of
sale be required for that purpose. The decree should have
been so framed as to place Mrs. MacGreal, so far as it could
be done, in the position occupied'by her at the time the deed

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of trust was given; for only by such a decree can the privilege of infancy, resulting from incapacity to contract, be
effectively protected. A decree giving the appellees a preference in the distribution of the proceeds of sale for their entire
claim necessarily must rest upon the ground that one who
obtains from an infant a deed of trust conveying his real
estate to secure the repayment of money loaned to him, and
to be applied, and which is applied, in improving such estate,
may thereby make the disaffirmance of the infant ineffectual
in every case where the property, upon being sold, does not
bring more than the debt attempted to be secured. But no
such result can properly happen if the court enforces the
established rule that, upon the disaffirmance of a deed made
during infancy, the infant is entitled to recover the property
conveyed by him, and the adult to recover such of the consideration paid by him as may remain in the hands of the infant
at the time of disaftirmance. As Mrs. MacGreal ought not
to hold the property in its improved state without accounting,
as far as possible, for the money used in protecting it from
sale for existisg liens, and in improving it, there must be a
sale in order that justice may be done. But as the disaffirmance of her deed restores her rights in the property, a sale
ought not to have the effect of depriving her of the interest
she had at the time the deed of trust was executed. The
decree for a sale was proper, but., upon the showing made by
this record, it should direct the proceeds to be applied, first,
in repaying to the appellees, with interest, the sums paid by
Mrs. Utermehie in discharge of the prior liens created by the
deeds of 1886 and 1887 and by the taxes then upon the property; second, in paying Mrs. MacGreal an amotnt equal to
the value of the lot at the institution of this suit (less such
prior liens and taxes) without interest on that amount, and
without taking into consideration the value of the improvements placed on the lot; and third, in paying to the appellees
such of the proceeds of sale as may remain, not exceeding the
balance due on the loan, with interest. This last sum would
represent, so far as may be, the value of the improvements
put upon the lot with Mrs. Utermehle's money. Lynde v.

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
Syllabus.

.McGregor, 13 Allen, i82, 185. Any other decree will make
the disaffirmance by the infant ineffectual, if the property,
upon being sold, does not bring more than the debt attempted
to be secured. If the property, in its improved condition, does
not bring enough to pay the whole debt due the appellees, they
will be without remedy for the deficiency. If any balance
should remain after satisfying the above claims in the order
mentioned, it will belong to Mrs. MacGreal.
The decree is reversed, and the cause remanded for further

proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and

AIJR. JUSTICE

BROWN are of opinion

that the judgment should be affirmed.

MENOTTI v. DILLON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 809. Submitted April 28, 1897. - Decided May 24,19T.

The land in controversy, being 240 acres situated in California, was settled
upon and improved in good faith by H., in 1858, with the intention of
taking, at the proper time, the necessary steps to acquire the title thereto
from the United States, by procuring its location in part satisfaction of
the grant made by the United States to the State of California of 500,000
acres of land; and then of purchasing the land in question from the State.
In June, 1864, H., in proper form, made application to the State, under the
act of California approved April 27, 1863, fbr the sale of certain lands, to
locate this land as a "lieu school land location," and to purchase it from
the State. This application and offer to purchase were approved bF the
State's locating agent upon the condition that "if said location should
be made and approved by the United Stirtes, it should be for the use and
benefit of said applicant upon his complying with all the conditions and
provisions of tho said act of April 27, 1863." Subsequently, February 28,
1865, the State's agent, proceeding under the state law, located this land in
lieu of a portion of those which had been lost to the State, at the request
and for tle use of H., by filing an application fot the same in the United
States land office at San Francisco. This application to purchase was completed, so that on the 31st day of August, 1865, H. received from the State a
certificate of purchase in due form. Menotti, the plaintiff in error, claims
under H. At the time the above application was filed in the land office at

