OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Brought forward
Expenses of Gustavus V. Menzies, Com10 00
m issioner ............................
Services as member of commission ....

$904 50

100 00

110 00
Expenses of Gaston M. Alves, Commissioner ...............................

7 50

Services as member of commission.... 100 00

107 50
$1122 00

Total .............................

It is ordered, adjudged and decreed that their said report
hereby, affirmed.
this day filed be, and the same is
It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the compensation of the commissioners and expenses attendant
upon the discharge of their duties in permanently marking said line as directed by the decree of May 18, 1896, be,
and the same are hereby, allowed at the sum of one thousand
one hundred and twenty-two dollars($1122), in accordance
with their report, and that said charges and expenses and
the costs of this suit to be taxed be equally divided between
the parties hereto.
And it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the
clerk of this court do forthwith transmit to the Chief
Magistrates of the States of Kentucky and Indiana copies
of this decree, duly authenticated, under the seal of this
court.

TLA-KOO-YEL-LEE

v. UNITED STATES.

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 516. Submitted March 1, 1897. - Decided May 24, 1897.

Tak-Ke and the plaintiff were indicted for murder. On tile separate trial of
the plaintiff in error, Tak-Ke's wife was a witness against him. On
cross-examination the following questions were put to her: Who are yo.%

TLA-KOO-YEL-LEE

v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.
living with now ? Is it not a fact that since your husband was arrested
and convicted you have been living with this witness Ke-Tinch ? Is it
not a fact that shortly after this affair took place you and the witness
Ke-Tinch agreed to live together if your husband was convicted and you
yourself got clear ? Each of these was objected to as immaterial and
Held, that the questions
incompetent and the objection was sustained.
should have been allowed.

The same objections made, sustained below, and that court overruled here,
as to drinking of the defendant, and as to what took place at the sailing
of the sloop.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Yr. F. A Kelsey for plaintiff in error.
-Mr.Solicitor General for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAm delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here on writ of error to the District Court
of the United States for the District of Alaska. The plaintiff in error is an Indian, and was indicted with another
Indian, named Tak-Ke, and, upon a separate trial, was convicted of the crime of murder in killing one August Jansen
on or about the 5th day of January, 1894, at or near Shekan,
within the Territory of Alaska and within the jurisdiction of
the District Court thereof. He was thereupon sentenced to
be hanged.,
Upon the trial in the District Court it appeared that the
authorities at Fort Wrangel, some 70 miles from Shekan,
were informed by some Indians at that place in May, 1894,
of the alleged murder of Jansen in the preceding January at
or near Shekan. In July of that year the United States commissioner, a deputy marshal and some others started from
Fort Wrangel in a steam launch, chartered for the purpose,
and went to Shekan to find the body, if possible, and to take
such other proceedings as were proper in the premises. An
Indian woman, Tlak-Sha, voluntarily accompanied them for
the purpose of showing where the body was to be found. A
-short distance from Shekan 'the party landed on the beach,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

and under her direction search was made, and the body of
Jansen was discovered on the beach covered over with rock
and brush. The body was sufficiently preserved to be identified, and it was recognized by some of the party. After the
finding and recognition, the defendant, with the other abovenamed Indian (Tak-Ke), was indicted for murder, and, upon
the defendant's separate trial, the Indian woman was sworn
as a witness. She testified that in January, 1894, the deceased
was killed by the defendant and Tak-Ke, who was her husband; that they were in a small sloop near Shekan at the
time of the murder, and there werepresent the deceased, three
male Indians, herself and her child. The third Indian was
named Ke-Tinch, and he was also sworn on the trial, and
while differing in some of the details from the story of the
woman, he corroborated her in the statement that the killing
was done by the defendant and by the woman's husband, the
defendant shooting the deceased and the woman's husband
striking him on the head with an axe.
The two Indians above named are the only witnesses to the
killing. The female witness accompanied the searching party
from Fort Wrangel, and with her assistance the body was
found. As one of the two witnesses on the trial she testified
against the defendant and herown husband, who was indicted
for the crime, though not then on trial. It is apparent how
important it was to show to the jury, if possible, the bias, if
any, of the witness against the defendant, or to show that her
credibility was not to be depended upon by the jury.
In the course of her cross-examination upon the trial the
following questions were put to her:
"Q. Before this affair took place were you Tak-Ke's wife ?
A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Whose wife are you now ? A. I am not married now.
"Q. Who are you living with now I"
Counsel for the prosecution objected to the above question
as immaterial and incompetent. Objection sustained by the
court, to which ruling counsel for the defendant then and
there duly excepted.
"Q. Is it not a fact that since your husband was arrested

TLA-KOO-YEL-LEE

v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

and convicted you have been living with this witness KeTinch?"
Counsel for the prosecution objected to the above question
as incompetent. The objection was sustained by the court
and an exception taken.
"Q. Is it not a fact that shortly after this affair took
place that you and the witness Ke-Tinch agreed to live together if your husband was convicted and you yourselves got
clear?"
Same objection was taken, which was sustained by the
court, and an exception taken.
"Q. I will ask you if it is not a fact that this defendant
got so drunk (upon this occasion) that he was laid in the canoe
and covered over, and did not recover until after the body had
been concealed? A. No, sir; he didn't get drunk; nobody
drank.
"Q. I will ask you if it is not a fact that when he awoke
and saw the sloop sailing away and asked where the sloop
was going, that Tak-Ke told him the white man was sailing
away? "
Objection taken to the question as incompetent, irrelevant
and immaterial. Objection sustained by the court and an
exception taken.
We think answers to all these questions should have been
permitted. The questions were directed to the purpose of
showing material facts bearing upon the character and credibility of the witness, and the counsel for the defendant ought
to have been permitted to proceed with his examination and
obtain answers from the witness to that end. The two Indian
witnesses (of whom the woman was one) did not agree in
regard to the details of the alleged murder, and there is
enough in the record to show that they were both of a low
order of intelligence, and that they testified without any very
solemn appreciation of their responsibilities as witnesses upon
the trial of one individual for the murder of another. The
whole occurrence at the time of the alleged murder is left in
a good deal of confusion, and the credence to be given to the
testimony of the woman was of the highest importance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

The learned solicitor general in his brief in this case, with
most commendable candor and fairness, has said:
"But we feel constrained to say from an analysis of the evidence certified in this record, that while it was left to the
jury to ascertain the facts established by the evidence, the
mind is oppressed with a painful doubt as to the soundness of
the verdict returned by the jury."
And in speaking of the refusal of the court to permit
answers to be given to the questions asked, as above recited,
counsel for the Government also says in his brief:
"No reason is given for the exclusion of these questions
beyond that reiterated in the objection, that they were
'incompetent, irrelevant and immaterial.'"
He frankly says that in his opinion this evidence was admissible, and we have no doubt that it was.
The judgment must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the District Court of
Alaska with instructions to set aside the verdict and grant
a new trial.

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
MORTON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
Nos. 205, 599.

Argued March 9,10, 1891.-- Decided May 24, 189T.

Under the laws of the Indies lands not actually allotted to settlers remained

the property of the king, to be disposed of by him or by those on whom
he might confer that power; and as, at the date of the Treaty of Guadalupe IHidalgo, neither the municipalities nor the settlers within them,
whose rights are the subject of controversy in these suits, could have
demanded the legal title of the former Government, the Court of Private
Land Claims was not empowered to pass the title to either,- but it is for

the political department of the Government to deal with any equitable
rights which may be involved.
United States v. Santa F6, 165 U. S. 175, involved the same considerations
in its disposition as those presented on this record, and its reasoning and
conclusions are to be taken as decisive here.

