OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

United States could be judicially determined. Or, if satisfied
that its title has been shown to be invalid, and it still desires
to use the property, or any part of it, for the purposes to which
it is now devoted, it may purchase such property by fair negotiation, or condemn it by a judicial proceeding, in which a
just compensation shall be ascertained and paid according to
the Constitution." 106 U. S. 222.
We are of opinion that this suit is not one against the State
within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment; and as the
record before us shows that the plaintiff owns the premises
and is entitled to possession as against the defendants, the
judgment must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN BELL TELEPHONE

COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 344. Argued November 9, 10, 11, 1896. -Decided

May 10, 1897.

If an application has been made for a patent for an invention, and the applicant has once called for action, he cannot be deprived of any benefits
which flow from the ultimate action of the tribunal, although that tribunal may unnecessarily, negligently or even wantonly, if that supposition
were admissible, delay its judgment.
Maxwell Land Grant case, 121 U. S. 325, affirmed and followed to the point
that a suit between individuals to set aside an instrument for fraud can
only be sustained when the testimony in respect to the fraud is clear,
unequivocal and convincing, and cannot be done upon a bare preponderance of evidence which leaves the issue in doubt; and that if this be
the settled rule in respect to suits between individuals it is much more
so when the Government attempts to set aside its solemn patent: and if
this is true when the suit is to set aside a patent for land, which conveys
for all time the title, a fortiori it must be true when the suit is one to set
aside a patent for an invention which only grants a temporary right.
The case which the counsel for appellant presents may be summed up in
these words: The application for this patent was duly filed. The Patent
Office after the filing had full jurisdiction over the procedure; the applicant had no control over its action. We have been unable to offer a syllable of testimony tending to show that the applicant ever in any way
corrupted or attempted to corrupt any of the officials of the department.

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 225
Syllabus.
We have been unable to show that any delay or postponement was made
at the instance or on the suggestion of the applicant. Every communication that it made during those years carried with it a request for action,
yet because the delay has resulted in enlarged profits to the applicant, and
the fact that it would so result ought to have been known to it, it must
be assumed that in some way it did cause the delay, and having so caused
the delay ought to suffer therefor. There is seldom presented a case in
which there is such an absolute and total failure of proof of wrong.
Before the Government is entitled to a decree cancelling a patent for an invention on the ground that it had been fraudulently and wrongfully obtained,
It must, as in the case of a like suit to set aside a patent for land, establish
the fraud and the wrong by testimony which is clear, convincing and
satisfactory.
Congress has established a department with officials selected by the Government, to whom all applications for patents must be made; has prescribed
the terms and conditions of such applications, and entrusted the entire
management of affairs of the department to those officials; and when an
applicant for a patent complies with the terms and conditions prescribed
and files his application with the officers of the department he must
abide their action, and cannot be held to suffer or lose rights by reason
of any delay on the part of those officials, whether reasonable or unreasonable, unless such delay has been brought about through his corruption
of the officials, or through his inducement, or at his instance: and proof
that they were in fault, that they acted unwisely, unreasonably, and even
that they were culpably dilatory, casts no blame on him and abridges
none of his rights.
The evidence in this case does not in the least degree tend to show any corruption by the applicant of any of the officials of the department, or any
undue or improper influence exerted or attempted to be exerted by it
upon them, and on the other hand does affirmatively show that it urged
promptness on the part of the officials of' the department, and that the
delay was the result of the action of those officials.
If the circumstances do not make it clear that this delay on the part of the
officials was wholly justified they do show that it was not wholly unwarranted, and that there were reasons for the action of such officials,
which at least deserve consideration and cannot be condemned as trivial.
It is unnecessary to determine whether there are two separate inventions in
the transmitter and the receiver, or whether the patent of 1891 is for an
invention which was covered by the patent of 1880; as the judgment of
the Patent Office, the tribunal established by Congress to determine such
questions, was adverse to the contention of the Government, and such
judgment cannot be reviewed in this suit.
Suits may be maintained by the Government in its own courts to set aside
one of its patents not only when it has a proprietary and pecuniary
interest in the result, but also when it is necessary in order to enable it
to discharge its obligations to the public, and sometimes when the
purpose and effect are simply to enforce the rights of an individual; In
VOL. CLXVII-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
the former cases it has all the privileges and rights of a sovereign, the
statutes of limitation do not run against it, the laches of its own officials
does not debar its right; but when it has no proprietary or pecuniary
result in the setting aside of the patent; is not seeking to discharge its
obligations to the public; when it has brought the suit simply to help an
individual; making itself, as it were, the instrument by which the right of
that individual against the patentee can be established, then it becomes
subject to the rules governing like suits between private litigants.
In establishing the Patent Office, Congress created a tribunal to pass upon
all questions of novelty and utility, and it gave to that office exclusive
jurisdiction in the first instance, and specifically provided under what
circumstances its decisions might be reviewed, either collaterally or by
appeal; and when Congress has thus created a tribunal to which it has
given exclusive determination in the first instance of certain questions
of fact and has specifically provided under what circumstances that
determination may be reviewed by the courts, the argument is a forcible
one that such determination should be held conclusive upon the Government, subject to the same limitations as apply in suits between individuals.

ON February 1, 1893, the United States filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States in and for the District of Massachusetts a bill in equity against the American Bell Telephone
Company and Emile Berliner, praying a decree to set aside
and cancel patent No. 463,569, issued on November 17, 1891,
to the telephone company, as assignee of Berliner. Upon
amended pleadings and proofs the Circuit Court on January 3,
1895, 65 Fed. Rep. $6, entered a decree as prayed for. On appeal to the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit this decree
was on May 18, 1895, reversed, and a decree entered directing
a dismissal of the bill. 33 U. S. App. 236. Thereupon the
United States took an appeal to this court. A motion was made
to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction, which was denied, 159 U. S. 548, and the case was argued upon the merits.
As stated by counsel for the appellant, four grounds for
relief were presented and discussed in the Circuit Court.
Those grounds are:
"1. That the delay of the application in the ofice for
thirteen years was, under the circumstances alleged in the
bill, unlawful and fraudulent.
"2. That a patent, issued November 2, 1880, upon a division of the original application, covers the same invention as

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 227
Argument for Appellants.

that covered by the patent in suit, and exhausted the power
of the Commissioner as to that invention.,
"3. That the patent is not for the same invention which
was described in the application as filed.
"4. That, taking the application to date from the time
when it was made by amendment to cover the invention
described and claimed in the patent as issued, it was barred
by public use for more than two years."
By that court only the first two were considered, and the
argument in the Court of Appeals was confined to those
questions.
Mr.Robert S. Taylor and Mr. Causten Browne for appellants. Mr. Attorney General was on their brief. Mr.Charles
II. Aldrich also filed a brief for appellants.
It was contended in the briefs and in argument; (a) that
the Berliner patent was void by reason of the delay in the
Patent Office, which was in the nature of a fraud on the
public; (b) that it was void by reason of the Berliner patent
of November 2, 1880 ; (c) that it was void because the application of June 4, 1877, did not describe the constant-contact
transmitter; (d) that it was void because of irregularities in
the Patent Office, aside from. questions of delay; (e) that it
was void because the process and apparatus claimed were a
part of Bell's invention, disclosed in patent No. 174,465 of
March 7, 1876. As to point (a) appellants' counsel said, in
addition to other things quoted in the opinion, vost:
The delay in the office is the great fact in the case. It
determined the bringing of the suit, stands in the forefront
of the bill, was the principal question argued in both courts
below, and occupies the chief space in the decisions rendered.
It is not set up as laches, nor as a ground of forfeiture under
any provision of the law or rule of the Patent Office, but as
a course of conduct in the nature of fraud on the public. The
effect of this delay as a question of law is the first point to be
considered. The facts necessary to present the question may
be stated very briefly as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellants.

In 1878, the Bell Company, under patents to Bell and
others, was just entering upon that splendid exploitation of
the art of telephony which has since challenged the admiration of the world. The transmission of speech in that way
requires the use of two instruments: the first, - the transmitter, into which the speaker talks, and the second, the
receiver, at which the hearer listens. Mr. Bell's patent of
1876 described an instrument which could be used interchangeably for either of these purposes. In 1878 Mr. Edison
and Mr. Blake produced transmitters, both unlike Bell's,
and differing from each other in detail, but operating on the
same general principle. They both belonged to the class
of transmitters called microphones, the distinguishing feature
of which is that the undulations of the electrical current
by means of which the sonorous vibrations of the air in
the transmitter are caused to be reproduced in the receiver,
are caused by variations of pressure between two electrodes
remaining constantly in contact, which variations of pressure
are caused by the vibrations of the diaphragm of the transmitter in the manner described in Berliner's specification.
The Bell Company acquired the title to both these inventions, the latter immediately upon its production, and the
former in 1879; and afterwards used the microphone exclusively, or practically so, in all its great and expanding business. No other transmitter yet produced compares with it
in practical utility and value.
In November, 1891, the public were astonished to learn that
a patent had just been issued to the Bell Company, coveiing
in the broadest possible terms the identical microphone transmitter for which they had been paying rentals for thirteen
years, under which new patent it would be entitled to exact
a continuance of the same rentals for the same instrument for
seventeen years longer.
An examination of the files in the Patent Office, then for
the first time accessible to the public, showed that the application for this patent had been filed by Emile Berliner, June
4, 1877, and had become the property of the Bell Company
in 1878, and had been controlled] by that company to the time

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 229
.Argument

for Appellants.

of its issue. It was the extraordinary delay in the issue of
the patent, the application being all the time under the control of the Bell Company, coupled with the manifest interest
of that company to prolong its monopoly by means of that
delay, and the evidence found in the record that it had yielded
to that temptation, and the wrong done to the public by the
issue of the patent after such delay, that led to the bringing
of the suit. With these facts were also alleged in the bill other
facts of which counsel had information at the time it was
drawn, which appeared to impugn the validity of the patent.
Was this long delay in the issue of the patent an injury
to the public? Was it a violation of any duty imposed by
law, either statutory or unwritten ? These questions must be
answered by reference to the nature of a patent for invention,
and the rights, duties and obligations of the parties to it.
A patent is a grant upon a consideration. It is in substance
a contract. The essence of the contract is that the inventor
shall first have the exclusive enjoyment of the invention for
a stated period, and that after that the public shall have it.
The contract is executed on the part of the public by the
issue of the patent; on the part of the inventor by placing
on the records of the Patent Office such full and complete
description of the invention as will enable the people to use
it when his monopoly expires.
The thing which the public pay for in submitting to the
monopoly created by a patent is the free enjoyment of the
invention after the patent expires. If this means anything,
it is the use of the machine or thing or process in which the
invention is embodied, not the possession of a piece of paper,
nor to have accessible the scientific or other information contained in the specification. To deny to the public this free
use of the invention to which it has become entitled under
the contract is to take away from it a thing of value which
it has bought and paid for.
A second patent covering the same thing has this effect.
It deprives the public of the consideration which it was to
receive for being excluded from the free use of the thing
during the life of the first patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellants.

Nevertheless, as our patent laws stand, this may sometimes
occur. A single machine or thing may have embodied in it
more than one invention. These inventions may be the work
of different inventors, or of the same inventor at different
times, and each entitled to a patent, - one as justly and
clearly as the other. And the patents so issued at different
times may each confer a monopoly of the use of the thing.
In such a case the people are excluded from the free use of
the thing until the expiration of both patents.
In the present case Mr. Bell's patent
of 1876 covered
broadly the process of transmitting sound by means of an
undulatory electric current, as distinguished from an interrupted or broken current, no matter how produced. His
patent showed a transmitter capable of producing such a
current, but so feebly that its-use was limited to short distances. Afterwards Mr. Berliner discovered, we will say,
that the undulatory current necessary to transmit speech can
be produced by means of another form of transmitter, -one
operating by variation of pressure between its electrodes at
their point of contact. But as the only function of the
instrument was to produce an undulatory current, and as the
use of that current, however produced, was covered by
Mr. Bell's invention, it follows that the instrument was subject to two independent monopolies.
Later, we will say, Mr. Edison discovered that the use of
carbon as the material for the construction of the electrodes
of the Berliner. transmitter gave to that instrument a greatly
increased power and reach of operation. Later still Mr. Blake
devised a particular combination of carbon and metallic electrodes, with mechanism for their mounting, iyhich secured an
improved ease and permanence of adjustment and superior
adaptation to common use. Mr. Bell hit upon the true principle, in relation to the kind of current to be employed, and
was justly entitled to a patent for it, although the range of
his transmitter may have been but a few hundred feet.
Mr. Berliner, we will say, hit upon the true principle underlying the operation of the microphone, and was entitled to
his patent, although the mechanism he used in the embodi-

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 231
Argument for Appellants.

ment of his thought was so unstable in its adjustment as to
make it of uncertain value. The inventions of Mr. Edison
and Mr. Blake completed the instrument, and made possible
the talking telephone in every man's house, the city exchange,
and the long-distance line from city to city.
It thus happened that the Blake transmitter introduced
into public use by the Bell Company in 1878, and familiar to
us all, was the embodiment in one piece of mechanism, and
its use of four distinct inventions made by four different men.
That company was the owner of all the inventions. For Mr.
Bell's invention it held patents issued in 1876 and 1877; for
Mr. Blake's, patents were issued in 1881 ; and for the others,
applications were on file subject to its control.
Mr. Bell's invention was one of the first rank,- nothing
less than the discovery of a new law of nature. Mr. Berliner's
invention was a beautiful intellectual conception of a mode
of operation. Mr. Edison's was the discovery of a new property of carbon. Mr. Blake's was an ingenious and a practical utilization of the three. Mr. Bell's invention lies at the
foundation of the art of telephony. Mr. Edison's and Mr.
Blake's have done more to make the art of practical value
than all others following Bell.
We assume that it was not possible to take out patents for
all these inventions at the same time. And so far as that
was not possible, the overlapping and prolongation of the
monopolies created by the patents in the use of the carbon
microphone could not be avoided without denying to some
one or more of the inventors his right under the law. But
does it follow that the Bell Company was entitled of right to
hold control of 'the microphone under the broad claims of the
Bell patent and the construction and combination claims of
the Blake patents, and nurse the applications for the other
inventions in the office, taking out a paten-t on Berliner's just
in time to overlap Bell's, and on Edison's in time to overlap
Berliner, and so secure a monopoly on the same transmitter
used in the same way to produce the same result for three
times the period fixed by the statute for the duration of a
patent?

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellants.

It needs no lawyer's argument to make manifest the inherent moral wrongfulness of such a proceeding toward the
public. Every right-minded man will feel it instinctively.
Would it be a legal wrong?
It is assumed in this case that such a result would be contrary to the spirit and intent of the patent law. That is one
of the postulates of the bill. The statute deals in terms with
one invention and one patent at a time. It is its plain purpose that the patentee shall enjoy first his monopoly in the
thing in which his invention is embodied,- the machine, instrument, manufacture or process which can he sold, rented
or used with pecuniary profit, - and that at the expiration of
the term of the patent the public shall enter freely into the
same enjoyment of that same thing. It does not affect the
validity of this assumption that, in the practical administration of the business, the prolongation of monopolies in the
way pointed out may occur sometimes and to some extent.
They are the unintended results of the operation of the law,
contrary to its general spirit and intent.
Whether such results were not foreseen by Congress, or
being foreseen were regarded as unavoidable, does not matter,
The fact that the machinery of the law is not always adequate
to the perfect attainment of its intent is no reason why the
intent shall be denied or disregarded.
That is to say, if, under the circumstances of a particular
case, the public cannot have the free enjoyment of an invention upon the expiration of a patent which has giyen the
exclusive enjoyment of it to a patentee, because rights have
supervened under another patent, the intent of the law still requires that each deprivation shall be for the shortest time consistent with the rights of the second patentee.
Hence a nan who is enjoying, a monopoly under one patent,
and is at the same time prosecuting an application for another
patent which will givb him a monopoly of the same thing for
a further period, is bound to speed his application.
That obligation is an entirely different thing from the
duty of applicants generally to use diligence. It is a special
equitable obligation growing out of the special circumstances

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 233
Argument for Appellants.

under which that application is prosecuted. it has no relation
whatever to the regulations and rules provided for the transaction of business between applicants and the office. It arises
independently of the statutes and the rules. It would exist
exactly as it exists now if there were neither statute nor rules
fixing any limitation of time in respect to filing an application,
or the steps in its prosecution.
To put the very case assumed in the last sentence, let us
suppose that the patent statute consisted of one section
authorizing the Commissioner to grant a patent for a term
of seventeen years upon a verified application, but containing
no other limitation of time as to any part of the business.
A citizen holding one patent makes application for another
covering the same thing in some other aspect, say as to its
construction, material or mode of operation. His application
is allowed, and wants only the payment of a final fee to be
issued. The clerk in whose custody it is sticks it in a pigeonhole, and there it remains for ten years, at the end of which
time the patent issues. The public, in the meantime, know
nothing of the second application, and pay the tribute exacted
under the first patent, in the expectation of the free use of
the thing therein described at its expiration. The applicant
knows all the facts, and, for the express purpose of procuring
a prolongation of his monopoly, lets his application sleep in
its pigeon-hole year after year, taking out a patent upon it
just in time to overlap the first patent.
That is this case stripped bare. The Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit held that the eye of a chancellor can
see nothing wrong in such a transaction. We say that such a
proceeding would be a violation of the spirit and intent of the
law, a fraud upon it, a prostitution of it; and all this notwithstanding it would fulfil every vowel and consonant of its letter.
All these propositions seem to us to have a just foundation
in the essential nature of the transaction between a patentee
and the public. They are the equitable incidents of the contract or grant, or whatever it may be called. They flow
naturally and logically from a fair consideration of the purpose, spirit and intent of the patent statutes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellants.

But they may be rested equally well upon a deeper and
broader foundation. When aman goes into the Patent Office
as an applicant he does not leave behind him the equitable

obligations toward his fellows which attach to him in other
relations of life. They follow him there, andhe is answerable
there as elsewhere for the just discharge of them. Among
the maxims which define those obligations, none is of higher
authority or wider application than that golden rule of the
law, Sic utere tuo ut alienum non lcedas. Let every man use

his own so as not to interfere in any way or degree which he
can avoid with the enjoyment by his neighbor Df that which'
is his.
In buying and prosecuting Berliner's application the Bell
Company was pursuing its lawful right; but it was bound to
pursue that right in such a manner as not to trespass up6n
the rights of others, or subject others to injury in. any way or
degree which it was possible to avoid. This duty it could
only discharge by speeding its application, and so reducing as
far as possible that prolongation of its monopoly of the microphone which must result from the grant of its patent.
We shall be told that there is- no precedent for this suit.
But there is certainly a precedent for the repeal of a patent
obtained by fraud upon the Commissioner, and through him
upon the public, which is the ultimate subject of and sufferer
from the fraud; and the rei question is, whether such circumstances as we have alleged to be the circumstances of the
obtaining of this Berliner patent constitute 'a fraud upon the
public.
We need not look for any precedent of such a question as
that. Fraud is never-ending in the variety of its forms. And
the crowning honor of equity is that'no form imposes upon it
when the substance of the transaction is fraudulent. Some of
the greatest judgments in the history of the law have been
those in which its capacity for extension by construction to
meet new forms of wrong has been asserted, illustrated and
appfhed.
The wrong here alleged is a new one. But it wants for its
correctioni no newly made law; only another,-

scarcely a

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE. COMPANY. 235
Argument for Appellants.

new, application of old and settled principles. In the nature
of things, there must always be around the area of the familiar and specifically settled law a zone of debatable ground.
Within this territory the real battles of the law are fought and
its great decisions made, the question always being, Do the
old principles by fair and logical interpretation and extension
cover the new case?
There is a class of decisions outside the field of patent law
to which this case has a logical, though in some respects aremote, relationship. We refer to those decisions which deal
with the duties of men who have voluntarily placed themselves in situations in which the pursuit of their own interests
draws them into antagonism to the interests of others over
which they have control. The most familiar illustration of
this situation is that of a trustee dealing in his own interest
with the business of his cestui que trust. Such a relationship
not only puts upon the trustee a duty of the highest obligation,
but puts upon him a burden of the gravest character when his
proceedings become the subject of legal investigation. When
a trustee has kept his own affairs free from entanglement
with those of his cestui que trust,he is entitled to the full benefit of the presumption that his purpose has been to discharge
his duty honestly and faithfully. But when it appears that
he has dealt with the trust fund or property in his own interest, and with a result of profit to himself and loss to his cestui,
a very different case is presented, and very different presumptions obtain.
Emphatic objection was taken to this line of argument
upon the hearing below There was even a sort of complaint entered against the law itself in the remark of counsel
in argument that "there has been manifest in late years a
tendency in the law to transform all obligations into trusts";
in criticism of which was cited a paragraph from an opinion
of Lord Westbury, quoting Lord Mansfield's famous epigram
that "nothing in law is so apt to mislead as a metaphor."
That the tendency complained of exists is true. But it is
not because the courts have been misled by metaphors. It is
because they are progressively holding men to higher and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellants,

higher ethical standards. There is no noun in the language
which broadly and aptly designates one who owes a legal
duty to another. The word "trustee" comes nearest to it.
And where the duty grows out of the possession or control
of property, the analogy is so close that it is not misleading,
but helpful. In some cases in which the word is used, we
might doubtless have a better one; which illustrates the
remark of De Tocqueville that it is easier to invent new
things than new names for them.
That the Bell Company occupied the relation of trustee
toward the public in any technical sense is not claimed. But
it had valuable rights of the public within its control. As
the owner of the Berliner application, it was intending to,
and upon the hypothesis upon which we are now proceeding
was entitled to, take out a patent which would exclude the
public from the free use of the microphone after the time
arrived when it would otherwise be entitled to it. The control of the application was largely in its own hands. It
could speed it or delay it. To the extent to which it could
thus determine the date of issue of its patent, it had the
right

-the

property right -of

the public under its control.

Such control was entrusted to it by the law for the benefit
of the public as well as itself. Its duty lay in one direction,
its interest in the other. It is to this extent that we suggest
an analogy between the situation of the Bell Company and
that of a trustee who has profited at the expense of his cestui
que trust. And to this extent the analogy is fair and the
precedents are helpful.
In the same category belong many cases falling under the
head of public policy, also cases holding men to fair dealing
in relations of mutual confidence, 'employer and employ6,
principal and agent, fellow-stockholders in a corporation, feb
low-property owners in a city, fellow-subscribers to a paper,
and the like. We need not cite them. Their general scope
and character are familiar.
The great question is, was there a duty? The appellees
say, in answer to the charge of delay in the bill, that the patent was issued in accordance with the statute and rules. We

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 237
Opinion of the Court.

reply that that was not enough; that over and above the
mint, anise and cumin of the law lay the weightier obligation
of justice toward all; that a binding duty dehors the letter
of the law was violated. The appellees rejoin that no Such
obligation existed. So the Court of Appeals held.
Ought the fact that the terms of the statute and the rules
were complied with to close the inquiry? Does the law know
no obligations respecting statutory proceedings except statu.
tory obligations? Is all that a man can make out of the gov.
ernment, or out of the people through the government, lawful
game so long as he keeps the letter of the law?
These questions reach far beyond the confines of this case.
How to keep the letter of the law is one of the fine arts of our
time. The promoters of trusts, combines and all the countless schemes organized for the plunder of society are adepts in
that art. Such an issue ought not to be decided against the
people until all precedents and analogies have been searched
and all fair reasonings tested.
The existence of a duty once established, all else follows
easily. The measure of the diligence which it requires grows
out of the circumstances. The importance of the interests
involved, and the gravity of the consequences likely to occur
from a neglect of it, enter into it, as in every case where diligence is an element of duty towards others.
Mr. James McNaught and Mr. Joseph D. Redding by leave
of court filed a brief on behalf of the Standard Telephone
Company in support of the appellants.
Mr. Joseph H. Choate and Mr. FrederickP. Fish for appellees. Mr. James J. Storrow, Mr. W. W. San and Mr. W. K.
Richardson were on their brief.
after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

This is a suit by the United States to set aside a patent for
an invention as wrongfully issued. It is, we believe, the first

OCTOBER TERM, 1896
Opinion of the Court.

case in this court in which upon proofs such an application has
been presented. The right of the United States to maintain
such a suit was affirmed in United States v. American Bell
Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 315. The question now is whether
upon the facts disclosed in this record the relief prayed- for
ought to be awarded. It becomes, therefore, a matter of
moment to determine under what circumstances and upon
what conditions the United States are entitled to have a patent issued in due course of law set aside and cancelled.
Many cases have come to this court, in which patents for
lands have been sought to be set aside, and the rules controlling such suits have been frequently considered. Such decisions will naturally throw light upon the question here presented, though before adverting to them it may be well to
note the difference between patents for land and patents for
inventions. While the same term is used, the same grantor is
in each, and although each vests in the patentee certain rights,
yet they are not in all things alike. The patent for land is a
conveyance to an individual of that which is the absolute
property of the Government and to which, but for the conveyance, the individual would have no right or title. It is a
transfer of tangible property; of property in existence before
the right is conveyed; of property which the Government has
the full right to dispose of as it sees fit, and may retain, to
itself or convey to one individual or another; and it creates a
title which lasts for all time. On the other hand, the patent
for an invention is not a conveyance of something which the
Government owns. It does not convey that which, but for
the conveyance, the Government could use and dispose of
as it sees fit, and to which no one save the Government has
any right or title except for the conveyance. But for the
patent the thing patented is open to the use of any one. Were
it, not for this patent any one would have the right to manufacture and use the Berliner transmitter. It was not something which belonged to the Government before Berliner invented it. It was open to the manufacture and use of any
one, and any one who knew- how could contrive, manufacture
itud use the instrument. It conveyed to Berliner, so far as

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 239
Opinion of the Court.

respects rights in the instrument itself, nothing that he did
not have theretofore. The only effect of it was to restrain
others from manufacturing and using that which he invented.
After his invention he could have kept the discovery secret to
himself. He need not have disclosed it to any one. But in
order to induce him to make that invention public, to give all
a share in the benefits resulting from such an invention, Congress, by its legislation, made in pursuance of the Constitution,
has guaranteed to him an exclusive right to it for a limited
time; and the purpose of the patent is to protect him in this
monopoly, not to give him a use which, save for the patent,
he did not have before, but only to separate to him an exclusive use. The Government parted with nothing by the patent. It lost no property. Its possessions were not diminished.
The patentee, so far as a personal use is concerned, received
nothing which he did not have without the patent, and the
monopoly which he did receive is only for a few years. So
the Government may well insist that it has higher rights in a
suit to set aside a patent for land than it has in a suit to set
aside a patent for an inventioh. There are weightier reasons
why the Government should not be permanently deprived of
its property through fraudulent representations or other wrongful means, than there are for questioning the validity of a temporary monopoly or depriving an individual of the exclusive use
for a limited time of that whose actual use he claims to have
made possible, and which, after such time, will be open and
free to all. Bearing in mind this distinction, let us inquire
upon what conditions the Government may maintain a suit to
set aside a patent for land.
These suits may be conveniently grouped in three classes:
First, where, the Government being the only party interested,
the patent is charged to have been obtained by fraud in representations or conduct. Second, where the land by appropriate
reservation is not subject to patent, but is, nevertheless, erroneously patented. Third, where the land, though subject to
patent in the ordinary administration of the land office, is
patented to the wrong person either through fraud or by reason of mistake or inadvertence. In the first class are the fol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

lowing cases: United States v. Ihughes, 11 How. 552; United
States v. Tkrockmorton, 98 U. S. 61; United States v. Atherton,
102 U. S. 372; Jofat v. United States, 112 U. S. 24; United
States v. Minor, 114 U. S. 233; Maxwell Land Grant case,
121 U. S. 325; Colorado Coal & Iron Co. v. United States,
123 U. S. 307; United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S.
273; United States v. Iron Silver Xining Co.; 128 U. S. 673;
United States v. ilancock, 133 U. S. 193; United States v.
Trinidad Coal & Coking Co., 137 U. S. 160; United States v.
"Budd,144 U. S. 154; San Pedro &c. Co. v. United States, 146
U. S. 120 ; - In the second are these: United States v. Stone,
2 Wall. 525; Leavenworth, Lawrence &c. Railroad v. United
States, 92 U. S. 733; McLaughlin v. United States, 107 U. S.
526; Western Pacjifc Railroadv. United States, 108 U. S. 510;.
Mullan v. United States, 118 U. S. 271; -and in the third
the following: flughes v. United States, 4 Wall. 232; United
States v. Beebe, 127 U. S. 338; United States v. Marshall Mining Co., 129 U. S. 579; United States v. Missouri, Kansas &c.
Railway, 141 U. S. 358; United States v. Southern Pacific
Railroad,146 U. S. 570.
The second and third classes are not paralleled in this case,
for it is not claimed that there was no invention, or that the
patent issued to the wrong party. The decisions in those
classes need not be considefed. The first class comprises all
cases in which the land, though subject to patent and there
fore within the jurisdiction of the land department, was
charged to have been patented in consequence of fraudulent
representations or conduct on the part of the patentee. The
representations may have been as to the matter of right or the
matter of quantity. The patentee may have been entitled to
no land, or to less, or a different tract than that patented. In
any event, fraud was the basis of the relief sought, and as
fraud actual or constructive in the issue of the patent is the,
burden of this suit, we will quote from the opinions in some
of these cases. In the Maxwell Land Grant case, Mr. Justice
Miller, delivering the opinion of the court, said (p. 381) :
"We take the general doctrine to be, that when in a court
of equity it is proposed to set aside, to annul or to correct a

UNITED STATES. v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 241
Opinion of the Court.

written instrument for fraud or mistake in the execution
of the'instrument itself, the testimony on which this is done
must be clear-, unequivocal and convincing, and that it cannot
be done upon a bare preponderance of evidence which leaves
the issue in doubt. If the proposition, as thus laid down in
the cases cited, is soundin regard to the ordinary contracts of
private individuals, how much more should it be observed
where the attempt is to annul the grants, the patents and
other solemn evidences of title emanating from the Government of the United States under its official seal. Iftthis class
of cases, the respect due to a patent, the presumption that all
the preceding steps required by the law had been observed
before its issue, th6 immense importance and necessity of the
stability of titles dependent upon these official instruments,
demand that the effort to set them aside, to annul them, or to
correct mistakes in them should only be successful when the
allegations on which this is attempted are clearly stated and
fully sustained by proof. It is not to, be admitted that the
titles by which so much property in this country and so many
rights are held, purporting to emanate from the authoritative
action of the officers of the Government, and, as in this case,
under the seal and signature of the President of the United
States himself, shall be dependent upon the hazard of successful resistance to the whims and caprices of every person who
chooses to attack them in a court of justice; but it should be
well understood that only that class of evidence which commands respect, and that amount of it which produces conviction, shall make such an attempt successful."
In Colorado Coal Co. v. United States, Mr. Justice Matthews,
after quoting part of the foregoing, adds (p. 317):
"It thus appears that the title of the defendants rests upon
the strongest presumptions of fact, which, although they may
be rebutted, nevertheless can be overthrown only by full
proofs to the contrary, clear, convincing and unambiguous.
The burden of producing these proofs and establishing the
conclusion to which they are directed rests upon the Government. Neither is it relieved of this obligation by the negative
nature of the proposition it is bound to establish. It is,
VOL. CLXVII-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

indeed, sometimes said that a negative is incapable of proof,
but this is not a maxim of the law. In the language of an
eminent text writer: 'When the negative ceases to be a
simple one- when it is qualified by time, place or circumstance- much of this objection is removed; and proof of a
negative may very reasonably be required when the qualifying
circumstances are the direct matter in issue, or the affirmative
is either probable in itself, or supported by a presumption, or
peculiar means of proof are in the hands of the party asserting
the negative.'"
Then, after quotations from many authorities, the learned
Justice closes the discussion with these words from 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, sec. 80:
"So, where the negative allegation involves a charge of criminal neglect of duty, whether official or otherwise; or fraud; or
the wrongful violation of actual lawful possession of property;
the party making the allegation must prove it; for in these
cases the presumption of law, which is always in favor of innocence and quiet possession, is in favor of the party charged."
In United States v. Marshall Mininy Company, Mr. Justice
Miller again refers to this matter, saying (p. 589):
"The dignity and character of a patent from the United
States is such that the holder of it cannot be called upon to
prove that everything has been done that is usual in the proceedings had in the land department before its issue, nor can
he be called upon to explain every irregularity or even impropriety in the process by which the patent is procured."
With these declarations of the law controlling such cases
we proceed to consider that-which, according to the brief of
counsel for the Government, is the principal matter in this
case. We quote their words:
"The delay in the office is the great fact in the case. It
determined the bringing of the suit, stands in the forefront
of the bill, was the principal question argued in both courts
below, and occupies the chief space in the decisions rendered.
It is not set up as laches, nor as a ground of forfeiture under
any provision of the law or rule of the-Patent Office, but as a
course of conduct in the nature of fraud on the public."

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 243
Opinion of the Court.

What was the delay in this case? The application by Berliner was made on June 4, 1877, he having filed a caveat on
April 14, 1877, In 1878, and prior to October 23, the telephone
company purchased Berliner's invention, and on November
17, 1891, a patent was issued to the telephone company, as
assignee of Berliner. The application was, therefore, pending
in the department fourteen years, during thirteen of which
the invention was the property of the telephone company.
The effect of this, it is said, is to prolong for all practical purposes the telephone monopoly during the lifetime of this patent; and in this way: On March 7, 1876, patent No. 174,465
was issued to Alexander Graham Bell, in which patent, as
alleged in the bill and admitted in the answer, were described
and claimed "a method of and apparatus for transmitting
sound by means of an undulatory current of electricity."
This was the original telephone patent. And it signified that
Bell invented the telephone. That patent has expired and all
the monopoly which attaches to it alone has ceased, and the
right to use that invention has become public property. But
while he invented the telephone, the apparatus he devised was
inefficient for public uses. Berliner invented something by
which, taken in connection with Edison's and Blake's inventions, Bell's undulatory current could be made practically
available for carrying on conversation at long distances. In
other words, the telephone, as we use it - that which has become such an important factor in the commercial and social
life of to-day - does not embody simply the invention of Bell,
but also those of Edison, Blake and Berliner. So that while
the public has to-day, by reason of the expiration of the Bell
patent, the right to use as it pleases his invention, such right
is a barren one, and the telephone monopoly is practically
extended to the termination of the Berliner patent. And this
extension of the time of the monopoly has been, accomplished
by means of the delay in the issue of the Berliner patent, the
long pendency of the application in the Patent Office. In
order that the contention of the Government may be clearly
presented, and in view of the importance of this question, we
may properly quote at some length from the brief of counsel:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"In the present case Mr. Bell's patent of 1876 covered
broadly the process of transmitting sound by means of an
undulatory electric current, as distinguished from an interrupted or broken current, no matter how produced. His
patent showed a transmitter capable of producing such a current, but so feebly that its use was limited to short distances.
Afterwards Mr. Berliner discovered, we will say, that the
undulatory current necessary to transmit speech can be produced by means of another form of transmitter -one operating by variation of pressure between its electrodes at their
point of contact. But as the only function of the instrument
was to produce an undulatory current, and as the use of that.
current, however produced, was covered by Mr. Bell's invention, it follows that the instrument was subject to two independent monopolies.
"Later, we will say, Mr. Edison discovered that the use of
carbon as the material for the construction of the electrodes
of the Berliner trausmitter gave to that instrument a greatly
increased power and reach of operation. Later still Mr. Blake
devised a particular combination of carbon and metallic elec
trodes, with mechanism for their mounting, which secured an
improved ease and permanence of adjustment and superior
adaptation to common use. Mr. Bell hit upon the true principle, in relation to the kind of current to be employed, and
was justly entitled to a patent for it, although the range of his
transmitter may have been but a few hundred feet. Mr. Berliner, we will say, hit upon the true principle underlying
the operation of the microphone, and was entitled to his
patent, although the mechanism he used in the embodiment
of his thought was so unstable in its adjustment as to make
it of uncertain value. The inventions of *Mr. Edison and
Mr. Blake completed the instrument, and made possible the
talking telephone in every man's house, the city exchange
and the long-distance line from city to city.
"It thus happened that the Blake transmitter introduced
into public use by the Bell Company in 1878, and familiar to
us all, was the embodiment in one piece of mechanism and
its use of four distinct inventions made by four different men.

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 245
Opinion of the Court.

For
That company was the owner of all the inventions.
1877;
and
1876
in
issued
patents
held
it
Mr. Bell's invention
for Mr. Blake's, paterits were issued in 1881; and for the
others, applications were on file subject to its control.
"Mr. Bell's invention was one of the first rank - nothing
less than the discovery of a new law of nature. Mr. Berliner's
invention was a beautiful intellectual conception of a mode of
operation. Mr. Edison's was the discovery of a new property
of carbon. Mr. Blake's was an ingenious and a practical
utilization of the three. Mr. Bell's invention lies at the foundation of the art of telephony. Mr. Edison's and Mr. Blake's
have done more to make the art of practical value than all
others following Mr. Bell.
"We assume that it was not possible to take out patents for
all these inventions at the same time. And so far as that was
not possible, the overlapping and prolongation of the monopolies created by the patents iu the use of the carbon microphone could not be avoided without denying to some one or
more of the inventors his rights under the law. But does it
follow that the Bell Company was entitled of right to hold
control of the microphone under the broad claims of the Bell
patent and the construction and combination claims of the
Blake patents, and nurse the applications for the other inventions in the office, taking out a patent on Berliner's just in
time to overlap Bell's, and on Edison's in time to overlap
Berliner, and so secure a monopoly on the same transmitter
used in the same way to produce the same result for three
times the period fixed by the statute for the duration of a
patent?
"It needs no lawyer's argument to make manifest the inherent moral wrongfulness of such a proceeding toward the
public. Every right-minded man will feel it instinctively.
Would it be a legal wrong ?"
After discussing the injury to the public which results from
the conduct described, they add:
"Hence a man who is enjoying a monopoly of a thing under
one patent, and is at the same time prosecuting an application for another patent which will give him a monopoly of

OCTOBER" TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Coprt.

the same thing for a further period, is bound to speed his
application."
It will be perceived that it is conceded that some delay is
unavoidable. In the very nature of things that is so. It is
not possible that an application for a patent can be considered
an( determined on the instant. So it is not the fact, but the
exc 3ssiveness of the delay of which complaint is made. The
mere fact of delay does not, therefore, operate to deprive
the inventor of his legal rights. Before he can be punished it
must be shown that he has been guilty of a wrong -that he
has caused the delay. It matters not whether the delay be
reasonable or unreasonable, for a brief time or for many years,
if the applicant is not responsible for it. Whatever may be
the injury to the public, if the delay is caused solely through
the negligence or inattention of the tribunal before which the
application is pending, it is something for which the applicant is not responsible, and which does not affect his legal
rights. There i, often great delay in suits in the courts.
Cases not infrequently are argued before the highest courts
and not decided by them for weeks and sometimes for years.
Whatever effect such delay may have upon the interests of
others or of the public, so long as it results from the mere nonaction of the courts, the rights of the suitor are unaffected.
He cannot be punished on account of the delay of the tribunal before which he is presenting his suit.
Neither can a party pursuing a strictly legal remedy be
adjudged in the wrong if he acts within the time allowed,
and pursues the method prescribed by the statute. If the
statute gives him five years within which to bring an action
on a note he cannot be denied relief simply because he waits
four years and eleven months. If he has two years after a
judgment against him within which to take an appeal he may
wait until the last day of the two years. Under section 4886,
Rev. Stat., an inventor has two years from the time his
invention is disclosed to the public within which to make
his application, and unless an abandonment is shown during
that time he is entitled to a patent, and the patent runs as
any other patent for seventeen years from its date. He can-

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 247
Opinion of the Court.

not be deprived of this right by proof that if he had filed his
application immediately after the invention the patent would
have been issued two years earlier than it was, and the public
therefore would have come into possession of the free use of
the invention two years sooner. The statute has given this
right, and no consideration of public benefit can take it from
him. His right exists because Congress has declared that it
should. It will not do to say that, because Congress has
declared that seventeen years is the life of a patent, seventeen
years is the limit of the possible monopoly; for. the same
legislation that gives seventeen years as the life of a patent
gives two years within which an application for a patent may
be made, and during that time, as well as while the application is pending in the department, the applicant has practically, if not legally, an exclusive use. A party seeking a
right under the patent statutes may avail himself of all their
provisions, and the courts may not deny him the benefit of a
single one. These are questions not of natural but of purely
statutory right. Congress, instead of fixing seventeen, had
the power to fix thirty years as the life of a patent. No court
can disregard any statutory provisions in respect to these
matte! s on the ground that in it,. judgment they are unwise
or prejudicial to the interests of the public.
And in this connection it is also well to notice these facts:
See. 4888, Rev. Stat., requires an inventor to make application
in writing to the Commissioner of Patents. That and the
two or three succeeding sections prescribe what the application shall state, and by what it shall be accompanied. Section
4893 provdes that on the filing of the application and the
payment of fees " the Commissioner of Patents shall cause
an examination to be made of the alleged new invention or
discovery; and if on such examination it shall appear that the
claimant is justly entitled to a patent under the law, and that
the same is sufficiently useful and important, the Commissioner shall issue a patent therefor." Section 4894 reads:
"All applications for patents shall be completed and prepared for examination within two years after the filing of the
application, and in default thereof, or upon failure of the appli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

cant to prosecute the same within two years after any action
therein, of which notice shall have been given to the applicant,
they shall be regarded as abandoned by the parties thereto,
unless it be shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of
Patents that such delay was unavoidable."
Certain rules of procedure have been prescribed by the Commissioner of Patents, and a certain routine of practice has
become established in that department. Now, all these matters of statutory enactment, rules, of procedure and routine
of practice, are things over which an applicant has no control.
When he has once filed his application, complying with the
statutory requirements, then the Patent Office takes possession
of the matter. It determines when and how it will act, and
the applicant can only ask and wait.And why should he be called upon to do more? Ile comes
before the tribunal which the Government has established
and presents his application. Why should the validity of the
grant which that tribunal finally makes depend in any degree
upon the number of times he has repeated his application?
The true rule is that if application has been made and the
applicant has once called for action, he cannot be deprived
of any benefits which flow from the ultimate action of the
tribunal, although that tribunal may unnecessarily, negligently or even wantonly, if that supposition were admissible,
delay its judgment. If the public is interested in prompt
action, if the Government which represents the public thinks
that more speed on the part of any of its tribunals is essential, it is the Government which is called upon to act, and the
applicant may with propriety wait until either the tribunal
has acted or until the Government, having regard for the
public interest, has interfered to compel action. Accepting
the statement of counsel as to the facts to be correct in all its
fulness, consider what would have been the ruling of a court
if an application had been made to it based upon those facts.
Suppose the applicant had presented its petition for a mandamus to compel prompt action on the part of the patent
officials and said, "I have applied for and am entitled to a
patent. It will be issued after a while without any judicial

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 249
Opinion of the Court.

compulsion. I can make large profits if the Patent Office will
be dilatory, and yet I ask a mandamus to compel its immediate action," would not the ruling have been, "By your own
showing you are entitled to no ,relief; you have no cause of
complaint; it is the Government, representing the public,
which alone can complain" ? And if it could obtain no assistance by a suit in advance, can it be punished indirectly by
being deprived of that which was finally awarded to it ?
Much is said in the briefs and in the arguments about the
practical continuance of the telephone monopoly. It is well
to understand exactly what is meant thereby. No one questions that the Bell patent has expired, and that all of his
invention is free to the use of the public. It is not denied
that Berliner's invention is something independent and distinct from the Bell invention. It is the combination of these
inventions with those of Blake and Edison which makes the
instrument in commercial use, and because this is the most
serviceable it is the one that the public insists upon having.
But each invention has independent rights. It loses nothing
because when united with another it results in an instrument
more valuable than either alone will give. Suppose that at
the expiration of this Berliner patent some new invention
shall be made by which in connection with those already free
to the public an instrument can be manufactured far surpassing in utility that used to-day, and the Bell Company shall
purchase that invention, the public, which always insists on
having the best and most serviceable, will undoubtedly take
the new instrument, and in that way it may happen that
what is called the telephone monopoly is practically still
further continued. But surely that does not abridge the legal
rights of any one. The inventor of the latest addition is entitled to full protection, and if the telephone company buys
that invention it is entitled to all the rights which the inventor had. All that the patent law requires is that when
a patent expires the invention covered by that patent shall
be free to every one, and not that the public has the right
to the use of any other invention, the patent for which has
not expired, and which adds to the utility and advantage

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of the instrument made as the result of the combined inventions.
Counsel seem to argue that one who has made an invention and thereupon applies f r a patent therefor, occupies, as
it were, the position of a quasi trustee for the public; that he
is under a sort of moral obligation to see that the public acquires the right to the free use of that invention as soon as is
conveniently possible. We dissent entirely from the thought
thus urged. The inventor is one who has discovered something of value. It is his absolute property. He may withhold the knowledge of it from the public, and he may insist
upon all the advantages and benefits which the statute promises to him who discloses to the public his invention. He
does not make the law. He does not determine the measure
of his rights. The legislative body, representing the people,
has declared what the public will give for the free use of that
invention. He cannot be heard in the courts to say that it is
of such value that he is entitled to a lafger and longer monopoly; that he is not fully compensated, by the receipts during
seventeen years, for the great benefit which his invention has
bestowed. No representative of the public is at liberty to
negotiate with him for a new and independent contract as to
the terms and conditions upon which he will give up his invention. He must come under the dominion of the statute,
and take that which the public has proffered its willingness
to give. As the lawmaking power has prescribed what the
public will give, specified the terms and conditions of purchase, indicated the time and methods of determining the
right of compensation, he on his part has an absolute legal
right to avail himself of all the provisions thus made. It is
not of course doubted that the courts in construing the patent
as all other statutes, must have regard to the spirit as well as
the letter. That simply requires that courts shall ascertain
their true meaning, but when that is ascertained the applicant
for a patent is entitled to all the benefits which those statutes
thus construed give.
What are the evidences of wrong in this matter of delay?
It may have been caused either by the negligent or wrongful

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 251
Opinion of the Court.

action of the officers of the department, and without any
connivance, assistance or concurrence on the part of the applicant, or it may have been brought about by the applicant,
either through its corruption of the public officers, or through
other misconduct on its part. If the fault is wholly that of
the department, the applicant ought not to suffer therefor.
While, on the other hand, if its conduct has been wrongful,
it may and ought to suffer. There is no presumption against
the applicant. If a tribunal charged with official action delays
such action, whatever of presumption surrounds the delay
attaches to the tribunal, and no evidence of wrong being
given, the presumption would be that the delay was at the
instance of the tribunal and not caused by the applicant.
The Government, therefore, in order to make out its case,
must affirmatively show that the delay has been caused in
some way by the conduct of the applicant, and before its
patent can be set aside the Government must, in accordance
with the rules laid down in respect to land patents, establish
that fact clearly. It may not rest on mere inferences, mere
suggestions, but -must prove the wrong in such a manner as
to satisfy the judgment, before it can destroy that which its
own agents have created. We reiterate what was said by
Mr. Justice Miller, for the court, in the Maxwell Land Grant
case, that a suit between individuals to set aside an instrument
for fraud can only be sustained when the testimony in respect
to the fraud is clear, unequivocal and convincing, and cannot
be done upon a bare preponderance of evidence which leaves
the issue in doubt; and that if this be the settled rule in respect to suits between individuals it is much more so when
the Government attempts to set aside its solemn patent. And
we may here again repeat that if this is true when the suit is to
set aside a patent for land, which conveys for all time the title,
a fortiori it must be true when the suit is one to set aside a
patent for an invention which only grants a temporary right.
What evidence has the Government produced? We premise by saying that there is not a scintilla of testimony as to
any corruption of the officers of the department by the defendants, or any attempt at. such corruption. Counsel do not

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

put the finger on a single fact tending to show that any money
was ever paid to any official of the Patent Office, or that any
undue influence was ever attempted to be exerted upon or improper suggestion made to any one. So far as the record discloses, there never was an intimation made to a single official
that he could profit in any way by a moment's delay. All
thought of wrong in this respect may, therefore, be put aside.
If there was no corruption on the part of the defendants,
what did they do that calls for condemnation? And we turn
to the brief of the learned counsel for the Government to
see what evidences of wrong they have found in the record.
After noting that their inquiry begins at June 9, 1882, thus
impliedly conceding that there is no reason to question the
delay up to that time (a period of five years), they call attention to the subsequent correspondence between the solicitor in
charge of the application and the officials of the department,
which, so far as is material, is as follows:
"On June 9, 1882, the examiner wrote to the. solicitor as
follows:
'As at present advised it is believed that the claims
presented may be allowed, but final action in this case
must be suspended in view of probable interferences with
other pending applications, which will be declared as
soon as practicable.'
"On October 8, 1883, sixteen months later, the solicitor
wrote as follows:
'In June, 1882, I received an official letter dated the
9th of that month, saying that "the claims presented may
be allowed, but final action is suspended in view of probable interferences." Since then I have been awaiting the
official action. I beg to call attention to the case and ask
that it may receive action.'
"October 23, 1883, the examiner wrote as follows:
'In response to applicant's letter filed October 9, 1883,
it is stated that further action in this case on the part of
the office must be still further postponed until the conditions of interfering applications will permit.the declaration of interference, which seems unavoidable.'

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 253
Opinion of the Court.

4"On February 19, 1886, two years and four months later, the
solicitor wrote as follows:
'The specification is hereby amended as follows: Erase
amendment 0, filed December 16, 1881. Erase claims
3, 7, 8, 10 and 11, and change number of claims 4, 5, 6,
7 and 9 to 3, 4, 5, 6 and 76.'
"This amendment contained nothing material to the present
discussion.
"March 17, 1886, the examiner wrote as follows:
' In response to amendment of February 19, 1886, applicant is advised that the broad claims involving the idea
of a variable pressure contact telephone will probably be
involved in an interference with a pending application or
applications of another applicant, and that said applicant
has been advised that he must show that the office action
taken in the matter of his application is not a sufficient
answer thereto on or before the 1st of April, 1886. In
the meanwhile this application will be suspended from
further action.'
"August 13, 1886, five months later, the solicitor wrote:
'I desire to be informed of the present status of this
case, and to be advised if the office is awaiting any action
on the part of the applicant. It is desired that no rights
should be lost by inaction.'
"August 19, 1886, the examiner wrote as follows:
'In response to applicant's letter of the 13th inst. he is
hereby advised that the delay in this case is a matter over
which he has no control, except it be, perhaps, in the
matter of urging an early interference. The interference
will be declared as soon as the other applicants are in
condition, if it be decided that they are entitled to the
same. The office is awaiting no action on the part of the
applicant, and the delay is through no fault of his.'"
After these quotations, counsel observe as follows:
"These perfunctory exchanges of compliments between the
solicitor and the. examiner occupied the entire time from June
9, 1882, to March 16, 1888, five years nine months and seven
days. In all that time not a demand for action, not a hint

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

even of dissatisfaction, appears in the record. We have
quoted it all. Of course, this appearance of willing acquiescence is not conclusive. The examiner's letters indicate an
obstacle in the way; some portending interference or interferences, always coming, yet never arriving. But the supine
submission of the company to such extraordinary delay, for
such a cause, is the first item of the proof. If it had been
possessed of a real purpose to have its patent as soon as pos.
sible, if it had been losing millions per annum for want of it,
as the people are losing millions because of it, would it not
have found some way to force this invisible foe into the field,
or at least leave on the record some trace of its mighty effort
to burst the bands of official routine which prevented it from
finding and fighting him?"
This presents the burden of the case on the part of the Government. It amounts to only this: The defendant company
was not active but passive. If millions were to be added to
its profit by active effort it would have been importunate and
have secured this patent long before it did. As millions came
to it by reason of its being passive, it ought to suffer for its
omission to be importunate. It must keep coming before the
Commissioner, like the widow before the unjust judge in the
parable, until it compels the declaration, "tho u gh I fear not
God nor regard man, yet, because this widow troubleth me, I
will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me."
But is this the rule to measure the conduct of those who apply
for official action? What is the amount of the importunity
which will afford protection to the grant finally obtained?
How frequent must the demand be? It is easy to say that
the applications of this defendant, coming only at the interval of months and years, were, taken with the replies of the
Patent Office, mere "perfunctory exchanges of compliments,"
but this does not change the fact that action was asked and
repeatedly asked; that no request was made for delay, no intimation that it was desired or would be acceptable.
In this connection may Well be noticed the letter
of the
solicitor, in March, 1881, to the Commissioner, in which he
urged the modification of Rule No. 94 in respect to interfer-

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE
COMPANY.

255

Opinion of the Court.

ences, and this in order to hasten
the issue of the patent. In
.this letter, besides pointing out
how the rule as it then existed
would tend to delay, he adds these
statements:
"So far as my client is concerned,
I have to submit that it
is of the utmost importance that
the interference be declared
forthwith . ..
"The indefinite suspension of the
interference would only
create harassing and oppressive
claims after the public had
become possessed of the invention
without hinderance or
objection on the part of the inventor,
and
it is but just to say
that neither of the interfering
applicants could with any
degree of propriety claim to be
the inventor and expect that
such notice on his part would
be treated by the public with
any degree of respect. Patents
issued as the result of long
pending interferences are always
looked upon as odious monopolies because of the manner
in which they are enforced
at the time when the public were
already possessed of the
invention ....
S..An early decision upon the question
submitted is
earnestly requested."
It may be added that the modification
was made in October, 1881.
In respect to this letter, and especially
the
quoted above, counsel for the Government second paragraph,
say :
"In the argument below, counsel
appeared to think that once
was enough, and that they stood
as a perpetual exhortation to
duty to the examiner and all his
successors as though they had
been nailed on his office door.
But they were not even in the
file of the Berliner case. Examiner
Freeman, whose report
was endorsed on the letter, went
out of office in 1883. If any
one ever saw it after that until
it was exhumed for the purpose of this case, the fact does not
appear
But is the applicant to be condemned in the record."
because, having once
made an urgent request for action
and pointed out reasons
therefor, it was not continually
repeating that request, because
it did not see that such request was
placed on the files of this
particular application, or, as intimated
in the words of counsel, nailed on the doors of the Patent
Office?

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

It is, of course, easy to say that these applications, these
suggestions and requests meant nothing; that they were a
mere blind; but something more than assertion of counsel is
necessary to destroy their significance, or to establish collusion
between the applicant and the officials of the department.
But the case does not stand upon the fact that the formal communications from the solicitor in charge of this application
were few in number. While in every one, in which the matter
was referred to, there was a request for action, it also appears
from the testimony of Messrs. Freeman, Lyons and Kintner,
who were the examiners in charge during the major portion
of the time in dispute, that the representatives of the Bell
Company were urgent in pushing the Berliner application.
For instance, Examiner Lyons testified:
"They were urgent and persistent beyond toleration.
Hardly a day passed without somebody representing the interests of the Bell Telephone Company coming to our room
and urging the allowance of the Berliner case, or the declaration of interferences. I myself, was waylaid in the halls of
the Patent Office, and on more than one occasion did I sneak
into the room to avoid being bored by Mr. Charlie iHedrick,
the assistant of Mr. Pollok. Mr. Pollok himself, also, although less frequently, came to the room, and later on, notably toward the end of 1884, and in the spring and summer
of 1885, Mr. W. W. Swan was a frequent visitor in the electrical division."
And Examiner Kintner (who was in office from May, 1883,
to April, 1887), in reply to a question as to what Mr. Swan,
one of the representatives of the telephone company, did in
respect to the application, said:
"I had a great many interviews with him in the matter of
both the Edison and the Berliner applications under consideration, and he was very persistent in urging the passage of
both applications to patent; 'in fact, to such an extent that
his persistency annoyed me not a little."
Another matter referred to by counsel is what they call
the "tacit understandino." The facts are these: One Daniel
Drawbaugh claimed to have invented the telephone prior to

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 257
Opinion of the Court.

Bell. i-e assigned his inventions to the People's Telephone
Company, between whom and the defendant company a
heated and protracted litigation arose. Now, it is said that
there was an agreement, or, at least, a tacit understanding,
between the officials of the Patent Office, the People's Company and the defendant company that the proceedings in the
Patent Office in respect- to the Berliner application should
wait the determination of the litigatioh between the two telephone companies. It is insisted that the officials had no right
to enter in-to such an agreement; that it was unlawful in its
character. Assuming that this is so, still the fact appears that
the proposition therefor came from the representatives of the
Drawbaugh interest, that it was deemed by the officers of
the Patent Office to be for the best interests of all, and that
it was simply assented to by the defendant. Nowhere does
it appear that the, defendant urged, or even suggested, the
propriety of such a delay. For the present we do not consider the wisdom or the rightfulness of the course pursued.
All that we desire to notice is that it was not at the instance
of the defendant.
It is further said that, even if there were at first any excuse
for such "tacit understanding," and the Patent Office properly delayed action on this application until after the litigation between Drawbaugh and Bell had ended, a judgment
therein was rendered in the Circuit Court in 1884; and that
then the office should have proceeded promptly, and that
there was no excuse for waiting until the decision of the appeal by this court in 1888; and least of all for any delay after
that final decision by this court.
Summing up their argument on this branch of the case
counsel say:
"The review of the history of the Berliner application
which we have now completed shows that in its treatment of
it the office proceeded upon two unlawful assumptions.
"The first was that an applicant, whose application is ready
for issue except for a possible threatened interference, must
wait until the antagonizing application is either found allowable and ready for the interference, or finally ejected from
VOL. CLXV-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the office, no matter how long that may be. This assumption
governed the action of the examiners from 1882 to the issue
of the patent.
"The second assumption was that the judicial determination of the question of Drawbaugh's invention, in the suit
between the owners of the applications, was not enough to
warrant action by the office. Examiner Kintner took the
ground, in conversation with Mr. Swan -never on the record
- that the decision of the Circuit Court was not enough for
him; that the case might be appealed, and he would act only
on the decision of the Supreme Court. But when that came,
it received no more consideration than had been given to that
of the Circuit Court."
Were it conceded that these two assumptions were "false
assumptions," as counsel call them, what are they but errors
of judgment on the part of the patent officials as to the course
of procedure; and can it be possible that an applicant for a
right, who has under the statute no choice of tribunals or
course of procedure, but is compelled to apply to one tribunal
which has exclusive jurisdiction in the matter, and must abide
by its rulings as to procedure, can be held to have forfeited
his right simply because of errors of judgment by such tribunal as to the procedure? The statement of the question seems
to us to carry its own answer. It is true counsel follow this
declaration of the errors on the part of the office in the matter
of procedure with the further statement:
"The guilty party is the Bell Company. It had a full and'
perfect inside view of the whole situation from the beginning.
Its attorneys were wiser in these things than the commissioners or the examiners. They shrewdly availed themselves
of every unauthorized usage, mistaken assumption, ignorant
misconception or supposed obstacle, by means of which the
issue of the patent could be delayed without apparent responsibility on their part. In view of the duty which rested upon
the company to speed the application, that was fraud, not less
but more reprehensible because it was not of the common and
gross kind, but so refined and acute that its garb of professed
innocence has deceived even the Court of Appeals."

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 259
Opinion of the Court.

The difficulty with this charge of wrong is that it is not
proved. It assumes the existence of a knowledge which no
one had; of an intention which is not shown. It treats every
written communication from the solicitor in charge of the
application, calling for action, as a pretence, and all the oral
and urgent appeals for promptness as in fact mere invitations
to delay. It not only rejects the testimony which is given,
both oral and written, as false, but asks that it be held to
prove just the reverse.
Indeed, the case which the counsel present to us may be
summed up in these words: The application for this patent
was duly filed. The Patent Office after the filing had full
jurisdiction over the procedure; the applicant had no control
over its action. We have been unable to offer a syllable of
testimony tending to show that the applicant ever in any way
-corrupted or attempted to corrupt any of the officials of the
department. We have been unable to show that any delay
or postponement was made at the instance or on the suggestion of the applicant. Every communication that it made
during those years carried with it a request for action; yet
because the delay has resulted in enlarged profits to the applicant, and the fact that it would so result ought to have been
known to it, it must be assumed that in some way it did cause
the delay, and having so caused the delay ought to suffer
therefor. There is seldom presented a case in which there is
such an absolute and total failure of proof of wrong.
The defendant company might safely have left the case
here, but it has not been content to rest the controversy with

the failure on the part of the Government to show any wrong.
It has not been content to accept the Scotch verdict of "not
proven.," It has called as witnesses the examiners who were
in charge of this application, and taken their testimony as to
what did in fact take place, and as to how and why the long
delay occurred. Whatever judgment may be pronounced upon
the wisdom of the course pursued by these officials, or the sufficiency of the reasons given by them therefor, there is no ground
for controverting that they acted in good faith. The case is
nob one of arbitrary, peremptory postponements and delay.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court

They supposed they were acting in compliance with the
rules of the Patent Office, and out of proper regard for
the rights of conflicting interests. iNo just estimate can be
placed upon the propriety of their conduct without taking
into consideration the whole subject of telephonic inventions
and litigation. As heretofore stated, and as is well known,
Bell claimed to be the pioneer in this matter 6f telephonic
communication. His claim was disputed, and out of that
dispute came the most important, the most protracted litigation which has arisen under the patent system in this country.
For years this litigation was pending in the trial courts, subsequently brought to this court, and finally decided in 1888.
So great was this litigation, so immense the volume of testimony, and so important the rights involved, that it is the
only case in the history of this court to which an entire
volume of our reports is devoted. (126 U. S.) The argument
was protracted through weeks, and the case was held under
consideration for a year, and finally decided by a closely
divided court. Is it strange that, when the primary right
was being so vigorously contested, and was so much a matter
of doubt, when (as appears from the testimony in this case)
the judgment of the law department of the Government was
adverse to the claims of Bell, and to the validity of the patent
which he had obtained is it strange, we ask, in view of
these facts, that the disposition of the apparently minor
matter should be held in abeyance in the Patent Office until
a final decision of the primary right?
Ncither can any just estimate be placed upon their conduct
without taking into account the volume of business, and the
pressure on account thereof, in the Patent Office. Beyond
the fact, which is a matter of common knowledge, that! thousands of applications are filed and thousands of patents
granted each year, the record discloses something as to the
multitude of applications for patents for telephones and
telephonic devices which were pending during these years.
Mr. Townsend, who was an examiner up to November 15,
1880, *vhile unable to state the number of applications, was
able to say that he had examined over 120 that went to

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 261
Opinion of the Court.

patent. This it will be remembered was in the early days of
telephonic investigation and invention. It appears also from
a communication made by the Commissioner of Patents to
the Secretary of the Interior, on December 13, 1892, advising
against this suit, that at that time a gentleman, who is called
in the letter the "relator," had pending in the Patent Office
152 applications for patents on telephones and telephone systems. These facts may be only side lights, but they show
that the examiners and other officials in the Patent Office had
something else to do besides considering this application.
Of course, it is easy to say that the Patent Office could
have disposed of this application more promptly than it did;
that it ought to have done so, and that, in view of the termination of the great litigation favorably to the claims of
Bell, its delay has resulted in large pecuniary benefits to the
defendant company. But a wisdom born after the event is
the cheapest of all wisdom. Anybody could have discovered
America after 1492. The question is not whether a better
judgment on the part of the patent officials would have disposed of this application long before it was, is not indeed
whether there was any error of judgment, but whether they
acted wrongfully and their action was induced by or at the
instance of the defendant company.
One thing more deserves notice. The argument of the
counsel for the Government proceeds all along on the assumption of the superior knowledge of the representatives of the
defendant company; that they saw the end from the beginning; that they knew that their client had an invention which
was patentable and that they would ultimately obtain a
patent therefor, and also that Bell was and would finally be
adjudged the primary inventor of the telephone, and that possessed of all this knowledge they planned the delay in securing
the Berliner patent in order that thereby they might extend
to the termination of its life the telephone monopoly. But
what an assumption this is and how illy justified by the facts!
The very process and termination of the Bell-Drawbaugh litigation demonstrates the doubtfulness of the question there in
issue, and is absolute evidence that there was up to the close

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of that litigation an uncertainty as to the result. Equally
uncertain was the outcome of the Berliner application. Indeed, there is an uncertainty as to every application. No one
can foretell what will be the judgment of the Patent Office
upon the questions of novelty and utility. And in respect to
this Berliner application the matters which are subsequently
to be considered attest that there was more than ordinary
doubt as to the outcome. On account of those matters it is
earnestly contended that there was no merit in the application,
and that it ought to have been denied. Further than that,
they knew that the officials of the Patent Office were subject
to change - as in fact they were changed during the pendency
of these proceedings - and even if they had any direct intimations from the first examiner or the first commissioner, there
was no certainty that a subsequent examiner and subsequent
commissioner would entertain the same views. If the. BellDrawbaugh litigation had terminated the other way and a
different opinion on the part of a *single member of this court
would have changed this result, or if when the time came the
Commissioner of the Patent Office had decided against the

Berliner application, and his decision been sustained on appeal
to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, then all
this brilliant scheme of realizing millions would have vanished
into thin air. If they were possessed of the wisdom which the
Government attributes to them, the representatives of the Bell
Company, must have realized that the certainty which attends
a final decision and the issue of a patent was something worth
striving for, and not likely to be ignored. And if this underlying assumption has so little foundation, what shall be said
of an inference and an imputation unsupported by evidence
and based upon that assumption?
Our conclusions on this branch of the case are: First, that
before the Government is entitled to a ckoree cancelling a
patent for an invention on the ground that it had been fraudulently and wrongfully obtained, it must, as in the case of a like
suit to set aside a patent for land, establish the fraud and the
wrong by testimony which is clear, convincing and satisfactory. Second, that Congress has established a department

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 263
Opinion of the Court.

with officials selected by the Government, to yvhom all applications for patents must be made; has prescribed the terms
and conditions of such applications, and entrtlsted the entire
management of affairs of the department to those officials;
that when an applicant for a patent complies with the terms
and conditions prescribed and files his application with the
officers of the department he must abide their action, and cannot be held to suffer or lose rights by reason of any delay on
the part of those officials, whether reasonable or unreasonable,
unless such delay has been brought about through his corruption of the officials, or through his inducement, or at his inProof that they were in fault, that they acted
stance.
unwisely, unreasonably and even that they were culpably
dilatory, casts no blame on him and abridges none of his
rights. Third, the evidence in this case does not in the least degree tund to show any corruption by the applicant of any of the
officials of the department, or any undue or improper influence
exerted or attempted to be exerted by it upon them, and on
the other hand does affirmatively show that it urged promptness on the part of the officials of the department, and that
the delay was the result of the action of those officials. And,
fourth, if the circumstances do not make it clear that this
delay on the part of the officials was wholly justified they do
show that it was not wholly unwarranted, and that there were
reasons for the action of such officials, which at least deserve
consideration and cannot be condemned as trivial.
The three remaining grounds of relief asserted by the Government may be considered together. Defendants contend
that as the last two, although urged in the Circuit Court, were
not presented to the Court of Appeals (referring for this fact to
the opinion of the latter court and also a notice which was contained in the brief of counsel for the Government), we are precluded from noticing them,- citing as authority Bell v. Bruen,
1 How. 169; Alviso v. United States, 8 Wall. 337; National
Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353; Rogers v. Ritter, 12
Wall. 317; Klein v. Russell, 19 Wall. 433; Supervisors v.
-LackawanaIron & Coal Co., 93 U. S. 619; Wilson v. .cHamee, 102 U. S. 572; Wood v. Weimar, 104 U. S. 786; ToP-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Cgurt.

li/f v. Topliff, 145 U. S. 156; McGahan v. Bank of Rondout,
156 U. S. 218, and Carr v. Fife, 156 U. S. 494, in which
cases, with more or less particularity, the proposition is announced that this courtwill not consider questions not presented to and passed upon by the lower court. We deem it
unnecessary to determine how far that rule is applicable in
this case, for the reasons which compel us to deny relief on
the first of these grounds are, when applied to the facts developed by the testimony, equally potent as to the others. That
ground, as stated, is "that a patent issued November 2, 1880,
upon a division of the original application covers the same
invention as that covered by the patent in suit and exhausted
the power of the Commissioner as to that invention." The
patent of 1880 is for a receiver; that of 1891 for a transmitter.
It is claimed that the two instruments are alike in form afid
alike in function, save as they are operated at different ends
of the telephone wire. The transmitter can be placed at the
other end of the wire and then becomes a receiver, and so
vice versa. Popularly speaking, it may be said that the transmitter takes the varying .sounds of the human voice and passes
them on to the telephone wire, to be borne along thereon by
the undulatory electric current until they reach the receiver,
which takes and passes them to the human ear. In a sense
the receiver is also a transmitter, for it passes the sounds from
the wire to the ear. We agree with the Court of Appeals
that it is unnecessary to determine whether there are two
separate inventions in the transmitter and the receiver, or
whether the patent'of 1891 is for an invention which was covered by the patent of 1880. The judgment of the Patent
Office, the tribunal established by Congress to determine such
questions, was adverse to the contention of the Government,
and such judgment cannot be reviewed in this suit.
Suits may be maintained by the Government in its own
courts to set aside one of its patents not only when it has
a proprietary and pecuniary interest in the result, but also
when it is necessary in order to enable it to discharge its obligations to the public, and sometimes when the purpose and
effect are simply to enforce the rights of an individual. In

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 265
Opinion of the Court.

the former cases it has all the privileges and rights of a sovereign. The statutes of limitation do not run against it. The
laches of its own officials does not debar its right. Van
Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151 ; United States v. Nashville, Chattanooga&c. Railway, 118 U. S. 120; United States

v. Insley, 130 U. S. 263. But when it has no proprietary or
pecuniary result in the setting aside of the patent; is not
seeking to discharge its obligations to the public; when it has
brought the suit simply to help an individual; making itself,
as it were, the instrument by which the right of that individual against the patentee can be established, then it becomes
subject to the rules governing like suits between private litigants. As said in United States v. Beebe, 127 U. S. 338, 347:
"We are of the opinion that when the Government is a
mere formal complainant in a suit, not for the purpose of
asserting any public right or protecting any public interest,
title or propertyj but merely to form a conduit through which
one private person can conduct litigation against another
private person, a court of equity will not be restrained from
administering the equities existing between the real parties by
any exemption of the Government designed for the protection

of the rights of the United States alone. The mere use of its
name in a suit for the benefit of a private suitor cannot extend
its immunity as a sovereign government to saii private suitor,
whereby he can avoid and escape the scrutiny of a court of

equity into the matters pleaded against him by the other
party; nor stop the court from examining into and deciding
the case according to the principles governing courts of equity
in like cases between private litigants." See also United
States v. Des
oines Navigation & Railway Co., 142 U. S.
510; Ourtner v. United States, 149 U. S. 662.
Now, in the case at bar the United States has no proprietary

or pecuniary interest. The result, if favorable to it, would put
no money in its treasury or property in its possession. It has
a standing in court either in the discharge of its obligation
to protect the public against a monopoly it has wrongfully
created, or simply bedause it owes a duty to other patentees
to secure to them the full enjoyment of the rights which it

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

has conferred by its patents to them. Perhaps both of these
objects were in view. In so far as the latter was and is the
purpose of this suit it brings it within the rule laid down in
United States v. Beebe, sura. Doubtless the removal from
the public of the burden of a monopoly charged to have been
wrongfully created was also one of the objects, and perhaps,
the principal object. United States v. American Bell Telephone Co., 159 U. S. 548. To what extent this may relieve
the Government as suitor from all the rules governing the
suits of -private individuals need not be specifically determined
-here.
One of the familiar rules of equity, reinforced by statute
( 723, Rev. Stat.), is that "suits in equity shall not be sustained in either of the courts of the United States in any case
where a plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had at
law." The objection to the validity of this patent on the
ground that it was already covered by the patent of 1880 is
a defence which, under the statutes ( 4920, Rev. Stat.), is
open to every individual charged by the patentee with infringement, whether the proceeding against him be an action
at law or a suit in equity. The Government, therefore, if
seeking simply to protect the right of an individual, ought not
to be permitted to maintain a suit in equity to cancel that
against which the individual has a perfect legal defence available in any action brought by or against him. The query is
pressed whether the same rule would not also apply when the
Government is only seeking to protect the public at large, for
the public is but the aggregation of all the individuals, and if
each of them has a perfect defence to the patent, so all, together, have. Again, and as an illustration perhaps of the
extent of the rule referred to, it hds often been held that
while one having the title to and possession of a tract of land
can maintain a suit in equity to cancel a deed or other instrument which is a cloud upon the title, such suit cannot
be sustained if the deed or instrument is void upon its
face, its invalidity resting upon matters of record, and not
being affected by any lapse of time or statute of limitations.
In other words, the deed or instrument is not considered a

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 267
Opinion of the Court.

cloud if it can never be used to destroy his title or disturb his
possession. The objection to this patent on the ground stated
is an objection resting upon matters of record - of record in
the Patent Office; not dependent on oral testimony nor subject to change, and in no way affected by lapse of time.
Within the scope of this specific application of the general
rule it would seem that equity has no jurisdiction either at,
the suit of the Government or of an individual to formally
cancel that which by record and unfailing evidence is, as
claimed, absolutely void.
But, further, Congress has established the Patent Office,.
and thereby created a tribunal to pass upon all questions of
novelty and utility. It has given to that office exclusive jurisdiction in the first instance, and has specifically provided
under what circumstances its decisions may be reviewed,
either collaterally or by appeal. As said in Butterworth v.
Hoe, 112 U. S. 50, 67: "That it was intended that the Commissioner of Patents, in issuing or withholding patents, in
reissues, interferences and extensions, should exercise quasijudicial functions, is apparent from the nature of the examinations and decisions he is required to make, and the modes
provided by law, according to which, exclusively, they may
be reviewed."
Sections 4911 to 4914, Rev. Stat., grant appeals in certain
cases to the Supreme Court -of the District of Columbia. It
is true those sections do not authorize appeals on behalf of
the Government, but the failure so to do may be evidence that
Congress thought the Government ought not to interfere;
and because it believed it had made ample provision for securing the rights of all without the intervention of the Government. Section 4915, Rev. Stat., authorizes a suit in equity on
behalf of an applicant for a patent whose application has been
.Morgan v. Daniels, 153 U. S. 120, presented a
refused.
controversy under that section, and in the opinion, on page
124, we said: "It is a controversy between two individuals
over a question of fact which has once been settled by a special
tribunal, entrusted with full power in the premises. As such
it might be well argued, were it not for the terms of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

statute, that the decision of the Patent Office was a finality
upon every matter of fact."
It is true that all these sections refer to proceedings between
individuals, but the Government is as much bound by the laws
of Congress as an individual, and when Congress has created
a tribunal to which it has given exclusive determination in
the first instance of certain questions of fact and has specifically provided under what circumstances that determination
may be reviewed by the courts, the argument is a forcible'one
that such determination should be held conclusive upon the
.Government, subject to the same limitations as apply in suits
between individuals.
There is nothing in United States v. Bel Telephone Company, 128 U. S. 315, and United States v. American Bell
Telephone Company, 159 U. S. 548, to conflict with the
views above expressed. In the former case the question presented was whether the Government could maintain a bill to
set aside a patent for an invention on the ground of fraud
in its issue, and among the objections urged was the fact
that Congress had, in  4920, Rev. Stat., made specific
provision for certain defences in suits by an infringer. It
was held that the Government could maintain such a bill,
and that these special statutory provisions did not defeat
its rioht, the court summing up the discussion in these words
(p. 373):
"The argument need not be further extended. There is
nothing in these provisions expressing an intention of limiting
the power of the Government of the United States to get rid
of a patent obtained from it by fraud and deceit. And
although the legislature may have given to private individuals
a more limited form of relief, by way of defence to an action
by the patentee, we think the argument that this was intended to supersede the afirmative relief to which the United
States is entitled, to obtain a cancellation or vacation of an
instrument obtained from it by fraud, an instrument which
affects the whole public whose protection from such a fraud is
eminently the duty of the United States, is not sound."
In the latter case, which is the one now before us, there

UNITED STATES v. BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY. 269
Opinion of the Court.

was decided a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction in
this court of an appeal from the decision of the Court of
Appeals, and it was adjudged that this court had jurisdiction. It is true, at the close of the opinion is found this
general statement as to the power to maintain such a suit

(p. 555):
"In United States v. Telephone Co., supra, it was decided
that where a patent for a grant of any kind issued by the
United States has been obtained by fraud, by mistake or by
accident, a suit by the United States against the patentee is
the proper remedy for relief, and that in this country, where
there is no kingly prerogative, but where patents for land and
inventions are issued by the authority of the Government, and
by officers appointed for that purpose, who may have been
imposed upon by fraud or deceit, or may have erred as to
their power, or made mistakes in the instrument itself, the
appropriate remedy is by proceedings by the United States
against the patentee."
But while there was thus rightfully affirmed the power of
the Government to proceed by suit in equity against one who
had wrongfully obtained a patent for land or for an invention,
there was no attempt to define the character of the fraud, or
deceit or mistake, or the extent of the error as to power
which must be established before a decree could be entered
cancelling the patent. It was not affirmed that proof of any
fraud, or deceit, or the existence of any error on the part of
the officers as to the extent of their power, or that any mistake in the instrument was sufficient to justify a decree of
cancellation. Least of all was it intended to be affirmed that
the courts of the United States, sitting as courts of equity,
could entertain jurisdiction of a suit by the United States to
set aside a patent for an invention on the mere ground of
error of judgment on the part of the patent officials. That
would be an attempt on the part of the courts in collateral
attack to exercise an appellate jurisdiction over the decisions
of the Patent Office, although no appellate jurisdiction has
been by the statutes conferred. We are of opinion, therefore,
that the question, as stated, is not open for consideration in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Decree of the Court.

this case.

We see no error in the decision of the Court of

Appeals, and its decree, dismissing the bill, is

Affirm ed.

MR.JUSTIcE HARLAN dissented.
MR.JUSTICE GRAY and MR. JUSTICE BROWN were not present

at the argument, and took no part in the decision.

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
ORIGINAL.
No. 2. Original. Final decree announced May 24, 1897.

'The report of the commissioners for permanently marking the boundary
line established between the States of Indiana and Kentucky by the decree
of May 18, 1896, 163 U. S. 520, is approved by this court.

MR.CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER

announced the decree of the court.

Tis cause coming on to be heard on the report of Amos Stickney, Gustavus V. Menzies and Gaston M. Alves, commissioners,
hereinbefore appointed to ascertain and run the boundary line
between the States of Kentucky and Indiana, and continued
by the decree of this court herein entered May 18, 1896, for
the purpose of permanently marking said line as set forth in
their then report which was approved by this court on that
date, and to make report thereon to this court; which report
now made is as follows:
To the Honorable Melville WF. Fuller, Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States:

The undersigned Commissioners, appointed by this honorable court, in the above-entitled cause, respectfully report, that,
pursuant to the order made in said cause at the October term,
1895, continuing the commission for the purpose therein stated,
they gave notice for bids for the stone monuments and iron
posts and setting of the same to mark the boundary line as
established by the order of this court. The commission met
at the custom house in the city of Evansville, Indiana, on the

