WHITNEY v UNITED STATES
Statement of the Case

WHITNEY v

UNITED STATES

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE I AND CLAIMS
No 271

Argued April 9 1897 -Decided

May 24 1897

rie claimants have not made out their case by a fair preponderance of evi
deuce, or such *eight of testimony as is necessary to establish their title
to this large tract of land

THiS was a petition by Joel Parker Whitney and others filed
in the Court of Private Land Claims for the conflimation of
what is commonly known and called the "Caiada de Cochiti
grant," containing over 100,000 acres, and situated on the Rio
Grande River, in the county of Bernalillo, Territory of New
Mexico On the day following, Manuel littado and Jose
Antonio Gallegos filed a suit against the United States for
the confirmation of the same land, claiming under the same
title It appearing to the court that these two suits were foi
the same property and under the same omiginal title, the court
ordered them to be consolidated, and to pioceed as one cause
The petition set foith that, on the 2d of August, 1728, the
King of Spain, by Juan Domingo de Bustamente, governor of
the Royal Province of New Mexico, upon the petition of one
Antonio Lucero, made a grant of a certain tract of land,
bounded and described as follows: On the north by the old
pueblo of Cochiti; on the east by the Rio del Norte (otherwise called the Rio Grande); on the south by the lands of the
Cochiti Indians, and on the west by the Jemez Mountain, with
its entrances and exits, wateiing places, uses and customs
That the granting decree for said laud was signed by the gov
ernor on said date, and counteisigned by Antonio do Cruciaga,
his secretary of state and war, and it directed that the grantee
should be placed in royal and personal possession under the
boundaries described in said petition, and under the conditions
prescribed by the ioyal ordinances in that behalf as to the
settlement of the same It also directed that, after the pos
session of the land had been given to the grantee, the original
VOl

CLXVII-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

expediente should be returned to the governor, to the end that
duplicates thereof might be given to the grantee; that in execution of said decree, Captain Andres Mohitoya, chief alcalde
of the pueblos of Cochiti, Santo Domingo and San Felipe,
gave to the said Lucero juridical possession of the land on
August 6, 1728, executing and delivering the act of juridical
possession on the premises in due form of law in the presence
of his attending witnesses.
The petition also alleged that the granting decree and act of
juridical possession were returned to the governor and placed
in the royal archives of Santa F6, New Mexico, and that a
testimonio, or duplicate thereof, was delivered to the grantee;
and that the said testimonio was not in the possession, custody
or control of the petitioners, but that the same was deposited
in the governmental archives at Santa F6 upon the cession of
New Mexico to the United States, and has ever since been in
its custody.
It Was also alleged that Antonio Lucero settled upon, occupied, improved, enlarged and claimed the land in fee simple
openly, continuously and uninterruptedly from the date of the
act of possession, August 6, 1728, for a period much longer
than four years, and up to the time of his death, and that he
died fully seized and possessed of the same; that his heirs-atlaw and legal representatives have ever since continued under
the same claim of title, peaceably occupying and possessing
the same, save only in the year 1785, when it was intruded
upon by one Antonio Gallego, a lieutenant in the military
service at the place called Cafiada del Medio, under pretence
of authority from Governor do Anza to occupy and use the
cafiada for the pasturage of the royal cavalry; whereupon, in
the month of November, 1785, Antonio Lucero de Godoi and
numerous others, descendants and heirs-at-law of said original
grantee, presented their petition to Antonio de Armenta, chief
alcalde and war captain, having, as alleged, judicial and administrative jurisdiction in the premises, complaining of the
said intrusion by the lieutenant, Gallego, and asking for relief
in the premises. It was alleged that, in view of said petition,
Ar ,,ta,the said chief alcalde, reported said petition and the

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

subject-matter thereof to the governor; and, upon due consideration of the petition, the governor found and determined, and
so declared in substance to the chief alcalde and war captain,
that, inasmuch as the petitioners were in all respects the legal
heirs of the said tract of land, they were entitled to occupy
the same in preference to any other individuals, and the said
intrusion by the said Lieutenant Gallego was unjust and
unfounded.
That thereupon the chief alcalde and war captAin, undo
full authority in that behalf conferred upon him by the said
governor, duly made his order and judgment, reciting the
petition, report to the governor, and the determination of
the superior authority thereon, adjudging and declaring that
the said order and judgment, being an instrument in writing
signed by the said chief alcalde and his witnesses, should remain as conclusive evidence of the rightful title of the said
heirs to the said land granted and its rightful acquisition by
them and their descendants from the King of Spain; and by
the said instrument the said alcalde, in the exercise of the
judicial jurisdiction legally vested in him, declared that the
same should remain before any tribunal as evidence for all
time of the title of the heirs to the tract of land granted.
That the originals of said petition and adjudicatory instrument were in the possession of the respondent and kept in the
archives at Santa F6;
That the petitioners are interested in said tract under the
original grantee by divers mesne conveyances from his heirs
and legal representatives; and
That all conditions, precedent and subsequent, of the grant
at any time incumbent upon the said grantee, his heirs or
assigns, have been fully performed and discharged.
The answer of the United States put in issue the allegations
of the petition generally, and specifically denied that the
alleged granting decree and act of possession were returned
to the governor and placed in the royal archives at the city
of Santa F6, New Mexico; denied that a testimonio or duplicate thereof was delivered to the said original grantee under
and by virtue of the direction of the governor; denied that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

the alleged testimonio or duplicate was ever placed in the
governmental archives at Santa F6 upon the cession of New
Mexico to the United States, for the reason that there was
no necessity for nor any law authorizing the same, but that
the owners or alleged owners of the grant were the only
proper custodians of said alleged testimonio. It denied specifically that Lucero ever entered upon the tract of land sued
for, and occupied or appropriated the same, as alleged in said
petition, for the reason that it was impossible and impracticable for him so to do, because, under the conditions of the
country at the time and for more than a century thereafter,
it was impossible for Lucero or any one else to occupy, appropriate, or use, directly or indirectly, the grant described in
the petition; all of which Lucero knew at the time he applied
for said grant.
As to the allegation that, in 1785, Antonio Gallego intruded
upon the Cafiada del Medio, an alleged portion of said tract,
upon the pretence that he had authority from the governor to
use the same for the pasturage of the royal stock, the Government alleged that it had no knowledge or information; nor as
to whether in said year Antonio Lucero de Godoi and others,
claiming as descendants of Lucero, presented a petition to
Armenta, chief alcalde, complaining of said intrusion, and
asking for an investigation of the same or for relief. Nor
had it any knowledge or information as to whether Antonio.
Armenta, alcalde, reported said petition or the subject-matter
thereof to the governor of New Mexico;- nor as to whether,
in passing on said matters, the said alcalde had any authority
to act in that behalf under the authority of said governor;
rror as to whether said alcalde undertook to make a finding
in said matter; nor as to whether he undertook to or did
attempt to make the allegation set forth in the petition; but
it was alleged that if he did do so, the same was without
warrant or authority of law, and without any direct order
from the governor, and that the said alcalde had no power
or authority in that behalf except such as might be conferred
upon him for that purpose by direct order of the governor of
the province, and the Government tierefore denied that said

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

alcalde had jurisdiction in the premises, and denied that any
jurisdiction was shown in that behalf.
It denied that the originals of said petition and adjudicatory instrument, dated in the year 1785, before referred to,
were or ever had been in the said archives; and alleged that
if the same were in the possession of the surveyor general
they were filed with him under the law of July 22, 1854,
which provided for the adjustment of private land claims in
the Territory of New Mexico, and that they never constituted
part of the archives of the Spanish or Mexican Governments;
that no action was ever taken upon said alleged acts of said
justice by the governor of the province; and, therefore, it
constituted neither adjudication nor admission on the part of
the Spanish Government, but was simply an unauthorized and
unapproved act of an alcalde.
Further answering, the Government alleged that the petition by Antonio Lucero was one for a small piece of land on
which to cultivate ten fanegas of wheat and two of corn, and
to pasture small stock and horses; that the boundaries designated in said petition were only to indicate the district of
country within which said small piece of land was located;
that in acting upon said petition, if he ever did, the said governor did not make a grant, but specially reserved that act until
after the alcalde should have placed the petitioner in possession of the property and returned the expediente to him for
final action, which was never done, and, therefore, no grant.,
either legal or equitable, was ever made.
Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs the Court of
Private Land Claims was of opinion that the petitioners were
not entitled to the grant to the full extent demanded of
104,554.24 acres, but that they wqre entitled to a grant of land
-bounded on the north by the old pueblo of Cochiti, which is
situated on the mesa of Cochiti on the south side of the
cafiada of Cochiti, which point is about eight thousand one
hundred and ninety feet in a northerly direction from the
northwest corner of the lands of the Indians of the pueblo of
Cochiti, as the same has been fixed and determined by the
survey and patent of the same by the United States of Amer-

O6TOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

ica; on the east by the Rio del Norte (otherwise called the
Rio Grande); on the south by the lands of the Cochiti
Indians, as the same has been fixed and located by the survey and patent thereof to the-Indians of the pueblo of Cochiti
by and under the authority of the United States of America,
and on the west by the same old pueblo first above referred
to as the northern boundary of the grant hereby confirmed,
which said grant of lands contains in area about five thousand acres of land"; and that such claim was entitled to confirmation in the name of the original grantee, Antonio Lucero,
for the use and benefit of all parties in interest, claiming by,
through or under him, by the same title. Whereupon petitioners prayed and were allowed an appeal to this court.
JMr. John H. Knaebel for appellants.
Xr. Xatthew G. Reynolds for appellees.
General was on his brief.
MR. JUSTIcE BROWN,

.Mr. Solicitor

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

Some difficulty in this case arises from the mutilated and
fragmentary condition of the original petition in Spanish, and
the grant of the land prayed for, purporting to be of the same.
date, and supposed to have been made by Btistamente, Governor and Captain General of New Mexico'. The original
petition as it now appears, reads as follows, the stars indicating
the illegible portions:
"Antto. Lusero
*
*

que el derech
anteV. SSa.

*

*
*
*

*

querque ante *
por quanto *
sodetierra *

*
*
*

resco por aqu
familia y no
en la Mesade

Cochiti donde estubieron retirados los indios que se sublebaron
para en el sembrar i cabra [labrar] en dicho pedaso de tierra, dies
anegas de trigo y dos de mais, y para apastar mi ganado menor
y Cavallada, y luida dicha tierra por la parte del norte con el
Pueblo Viejo de Cochiti, y por el oriente con el Rio del Norte,

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

y por el Sur con tierras de las naturales dicho pue

*

*

el

poniente con * * de Xemes con sus * * salidas abreva
y Servidumbres * * lo en perjuisio de * * de
*
*
serbir V. SSa. de * * ersed en nombre " * gestad por
todo * * lico provea y mau * * do que resivire * *

rsed y juro por Dios Nuestro Sefior no ser de malicia en lo
necesario &a.
ANNTO. LUcERO."

The description of the land prayed for, which i§ the only
part of the petition material to this case, may be represented
in translation as follows
11

cel of land

*

*

*

on (or at) the mesa of Cochiti

where the Indians who rebelled retreated, to sow thereon, and
to cultivate on said piece of land about ten fanegas of wheat
and two of corn, and to pasture my sheep and horse herd; and
the said land is bounded on the north by the old pueblo of
Cochiti, and on the east by the Del Norte River, and on the
south by the lands of the natives of said pue * * the west
with

*

*

of Jemez."

The grant, which appears immediately at the foot of the
petition, is also partly mutilated, but so far as it is legible and
can be translated reads as follows
"VILLAGE

OF SANTA

FA, Autgust 2, 1728.

"This petition was presented by the party therein before his
excellency the governor and captain general of this kingdom
of New Mexico.
"And the same being examined by his excellency he treated
the same as presented and regis * * the land which the
* * ed that
party asks, and for which purpose he ordered
the chief alcalde of San Felipe Santo Dom * * and Cochiti
to proceed and examine said piece of land by * * tation of
the natives of said pueblos and others who may live near, and
there being any opposition to suspend, and there being no impediment and it being without prejudice to a third party having a better right the grant is made to him in the name of His
Majesty, and he will be placed in royal and personal posses-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

sion under the boundaries he refers to and of which having
*"
acquired it * *
This grant was probably signed by Bustamente, and countersigned by Antonio de Cruciaga, his secretary of state and war,
although these signatures do not now appear upon the original
documents.
These documents are produced by the petitioners themselves,
and not, as usual, by a testimbnio or copy certified by the
proper officer.
As this grant refers to the land demanded in the petition
for a description, it throws no light upon the controversy in
this case, which turns, not upon the validity of the grant,
which is admitted, but upon the identification of the calls or
objects described as boundaries, and therefore of the extent
of the grant. As the grant is bounded upon the east by the
Rio del Norte or Rio Gra.nde, of course there can be no uncertainty so far as to what is meant. As the boundary upon the
south is "by the lands of the natives of said Pue * *"
meaning, evidently, thereby the Pueblo of Cochiti, and as this
boundary appears to have been fixed and located by the survey and patent to the Indians of this pueblo, by and under
the authority of the United States, no question is made with
regard to its correctness. The difficulties arise from the
uncertainty as to what is meant by the "Old Pueblo of
Cochiti," described as the northern boundary, and by the
western boundary, described as "the west with *
" of
Xemes (Jemes)."'
The chief contention is over the northern boundary, owing
to the fact that there are two PuebloA of Cochiti, one of which
is seven miles to the northeast of the other. The court below
adopted the southernmost one, known as the Pueblo Viejo de
Cochiti, as answering the call in the grant:of the Old Pueblo
of Cochiti, while the petitioners insist upon locating the north
boundary by what was, and still is, known as thePueblo
Viejo, which is supposed to have long antedated the other.
There are other calls, however, which tend to identify the
description with greater certainty:

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

1. The land is described as "en la mesa de Cochiti donde
estubieron retirados los indios que s sublebaron," in or upon
(or perhaps at, the difference being immaterial) the mesa
(tableland) of Cochiti, where the Indiaus who rebelled retreated.
The location of this mesa is perfectly well settled. It lies
upon the southerly side of the eagon or cahada (water course)
of Cochiti, its northerly side forming the wall of the cafion.
It is evident, however, that the grant was not intended to be
limited to the mesa itself (notwithstanding the use of the
word "en "), which appears to have been comparatively small,
as the grant extended easterly across the Cochiti cagon, the
Cahiada Jos6 Sanchez, and the lower waters of the Cafiada de
en Medio, some five miles to the Rio Grande, and included
about 5000 acres of land, a considerable part of which seems to
have been arable.
Upon this mesa is a ruined pueblo commonly known as the
Pueblo de Cochiti. Whether it was also known as the "Old
Pueblo of Cochiti" is one of the points in dispute here. It
seems that the Spanish, who settled this territory as far to the
north as Santa F6, during the middle and latter half of the
sixteenth century, were, about 1680, driven out by the Indians,
whom they had reduced to a virtual condition of slavery; and
that, for about thirteen years, the latter continued to control
the country, defeating successive Spanish expeditions, until, in
1693, they were reconquered by Diego de Vargas; and the
Cochiti Indians, or a portion of them, took refuge in the
pueblo upon the mesa of Cochiti. We do not understand this
fact to be questioned; and it goes a long way toward identifying this pueblo as the "Old Pueblo of Cochiti," mentioned in
the same description as the northern boundary of the grant.
It does not seem very probable that, after having mentioned
the mesa of Cochiti, upon which it is admitted there was a
pueblo, and then proceeding to bound the land on the north
by the " Old Pueblo of Cochiti," Lucero intended a wholly
different pueblo, situated seven miles to the northeast of the
other.
The very fact that such prominence was given to the mesa

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of Cochiti indicates that it was mentioned for some purpose,
the subsequent description of the grant by boundaries being
complete in itself. Upon the theory of the claimants it is
difficult to see why this mesa was mentioned at all. Upon
that theory it was not named as a boundary, since both the
north and west boundaries are claimed to be miles from this
pueblo, and as a local object it seemed to have been no more
prominent or worthy of mention than several other pueblos
within the alleged limits of the grant. Assuming that Lucero
stood there, and from that spot made a mental image of what
the extent of his claim should be, does not aid the matter,
since it is quite as likely that he intended to claim the comparatively fertile land between himself and the Rio Grande,
as the vast territory now claimed by his heirs and assigns.
In view of the fact that there was a pueblo upon this mesa
-a pueblo still known as the pueblo of Cochiti- the natural
inference is that he desired to connect this mesa with the
"Old Pueblo of Cochiti," named as one of the boundaries.
2. That Lucero did not intend to claim an extensive grant
is also evident from his express purpose, "para en el sembrar
i cabra (labrar)en dicho pedaso de tierra dies anegas (fanegas)
de trigo y dos de mais, y para apastar mi ganado menor y
Cavallada," "to sow thereon, and to cultivate on said piece
of land tenfanegas of wheat and two of corn, and to pasture
my stock of small cattle and horses." The words "ganado
menor" are used to indicate, not a small herd of cattle, but
a herd of small cattle (sheep), as distinguished from a "ganado
mayor," or herd of large cattle. The word "fanega" is used
both as a dry measure and as a measure of land, and in its
former sense it appears to have been somewhat uncertain in
quantity, varying from one and one half to two and one half
bushels; or, to speak more accurately, about one hundredweight of grain. As a measure of land it appears to have
been even more uncertain, indicating, not the quantity of
land necessary to raise a fanega of wheat, but that quantity
which requires a fanega of wheat to sow it. Thefanega of
wheat differs again from the fanega of corn. It is agreed,
however, in this case that the twelyefanegas called for would

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

be about thirty-three acres. Under any method of determining what a fanega was intended to represent, it would seem
that 5000 acres of land, if any of it were cultivable, would
be amply sufficient, while the 104,000 acres claimed would be
out of all proportion to the calls of the grant. How much
land would be necessary to pasture his stock of sheep and
horses would depend so much upon the character of the land.
and of the size of his herd that it throws no light whatever
upon the intended limits of the grant.
3. All these conjectures, however, are preliminary to and
useful as throwing light upon the more important question as
to what is meant by the "Pueblo Viejo de Cochiti," mentioned
in the petition as the northern boundary. Lucero apparently
had been a soldier in the. Spanish army; had taken part in
putting down the rebellion of the Indians, and had a somewhat numetous family. Claimants' argument in this connection is that, by these words "Pueblo Viejo de Cochiti,"
must be understood a pueblo about seven miles to the northeast of the mesa of Cochiti, and commonly known as the
Pueblo Viejo, on the Potrero de las Vacas -the farm or
mesa of the cows. It appears that when the Cochiti Indians,
after being defeated by the Spaniards, retreated to the historical mesa of Cochiti, in the latter part of the seventeenth century, they built there the pueblo which has now, after the lapse
of upwards of two centuries, become known as the Old Pueblo
of Cochiti, although at the time of the grant it was not in
reality an old pueblo, having been burned by the Spaniards
not much more than thirty years prior thereto. It is possible, however that Lucero did not refer to this particular
pueblo as thq Old Pueblo of Cochiti, since it appears from
Professor Bandelier's work upon Archooological Investigations in the Southwest, part 2, page 178, that the oldest ruins
on- the mesa of Cochiti are those of a prehistoric Queres pueblo,
although the best preserved are those of the pueblo built after
the year 1683, when the Indians retreated there, and abandoned,
April, 1694. In virtue of these older ruins the pueblo may well
have acquired the name of the Old Pueblo of Cochiti without
reference to the later ruin. We do not regard this as of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

decisive weight, however, as it does not take long for a deserted
village or house to become known as "the old house," etc.
It also appears that the Pueblo Viejo is of much greater
antiquity than that of Cochiti, and at the time of the grant
was a conspicuous object in Cochiti traditions, and so much
venerated by the Indians in that vicinity as to be resorted to
for religious or semi-religious purposes. This fact is the basis
of the main argument for the claimant.
We have, however, carefully considered the testimony upon
this point, and have come to the conclusion that while Pueblo
Viejo may have been mtch the older -of the two, it was never
commonly known as the Pueblo Viejo de Cochiti, and that
while the southerly of the two pueblos was generally known
as the Pueblo de Cochiti, it was also known as the Pueblo
Viejo de Cochiti.
4. The uncertainty regarding the western bouidary arises
from the blank in the description "et poniente con * * *
of Jemez." That a
* *
de Xemes" - " the west with *
word is torn off is perfectly obvious from an inspection of the
original document. That this word related to something connected with Jemez is equally evident. The claimants insist
that these words must be explained by the context, the topography of the country, the customary adoption in royal grants,
of prominent natural objects, or conspicuous artificial objects,
as landmarks, the significance of names used as descriptive of
well-known places, and by the reasonable probabilities of the
case. As the boundaries of this grant, like those of Spanish
land grants generally, were fixed by such landmarks-upon
the east by a river; upon the north by a pueblo; upon the
south by the lands of another pueblo - it is natural to suppose
that the western boundary was fixed, either by reference to a
river, a cafiada, a pueblo, or a range of mountains (sierra),
also a most common boundary. As the Jemez River is far to
the westward of the sierra of that name, it is very improbable
that this was intended. There was also an ancient Indian
village or pueblo of that name, whose inhabitants did not
belong to the Queres stock from which the Cochiti Indians
sprang, and were in no respect affiliated with them. The

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

languages of the two communities were different; they could
not even converse together, except in- Spanish; the two villages of the two nations were quite distinct; each inhabited,
cultivated, pastured and hunted over a district into which the
other tribe did not intrude unless by favor, and the Jemez
country, with its fields and mesas, streams and mountains, lay
far to the west of the Cochiti country. The village occupied
by the Indians of the Jemez was called the Pueblo de Jemez.
The river that flowed about its land was called the Rio de
Jemez, and its cafion the Caiion of Jemez, while the mountains
adjacent were called the Sierra de Jemez. As this sierra was
the first natural object to which the name of Jemez was affixed,
lying to the westward of the mesa of Cochiti, we think the
grant must have referred to that sierra; or if there were more
than one range of mountains known as the Sierra de Jemez,
then to the one most easterly. Perhaps this will not extend
the grant beyond the mountains immediately west of the
mesa.
There was also some evidence tending to show that the
west boundary was reputed to be the sierra,and some to the
effect that the stock of Lucero and his descendants grazed
as far west as the Jemez Mountains. It must be confessed
that this evidence is not entitled to great weight, but, such
as it is, it supports the inference that one would naturally
derive from an inspection of this mutilated grant.
So, also, in the admitted reproduction or restoration of
these documents, made by the alcalde de Baca in 1817, to
which reference will hereafter be made more in detail, the
words '"la Sierra" are imported before "de Jemez." If this
restoration of the mutilated documents be of no other value,
it tends, at least, to show the opinion of an intelligent native
of that region, familiar with the topography of the country
and the customary boundaries of Spanish and Mexican grants,
as to what this grant probably intended to refer to as the
If Lucero had intended to fix the
westward boundary.
western limit at the pueblo or mesa of Cochiti, it is probable
that he'would have used the word "Cochiti," instead of the
word "Jemez" which, as above stated, indicated clearly that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

some natural object, to which the word "fJ emez" was fixed,
The very fact
must have been within his contemplation.
that he made the pueblo the northern boundary, without also
making it the western boundary, indicates that another
boundary to the westward was intended. We are, therefore,
of opinion that the court below erred in locating the western
boundary by the pueblo of Cochiti, and that it should be extended westward to the nearest sierra or other natural object
that bears the name of Jemez.
Certain proceedings, subsequent to the grant, are also called
to our attention as tending to throw light upon the identification of the old pueblo de Cochiti.
5. The first of these, in the order of time, is an appeal
made by the alcalde mayor, Don Bartolom6 Fernandez, "in
favor of the republic of the Indians of the pueblo of Cochiti
against some residents called Romero, who claimed to settle
the place called El Capulin," which was probably in the
Cafion Capulin, in the northeasterly portion of the tract
claimed in this proceeding.
In this appeal, Fernandez brought to the notice of the governor that at the place commonly called El Capulin, contiguous
to the pueblo of Cochiti, the Romeros were settled, and, in view
of the fact that during all the time he had lived in this country,
he had never seen said tract settled, which was the pasture
land of the horses and stock of the said pueblo, and other
residents of the kingdom, and not knowing of any grant
having been made to authorize such settlement, he informed
the governor and captain general of the fact.
In answer to this, an order, in the nature of an order nisi,
seems to have been made, directing the alcalde to eject the
settlers, unless they showed cause to the contrary. The document is a very peculiar one, but this seems to have been its
purport.
Romero thereupon appeared before the governor by petition,
stating that he had been notified by Fernandez to vacate the
Capulin, and that he had obeyed immediately; but that he
had not removed his property, as he had held it for five years
and six months without objection until this year (1765), when

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

it was made known that he had purchased parts which did
not belong to him by law, from parties claiming under a grant
to one Andres Montoya, which instrument he presented with
due formality, stating that he saw no reason for his being
interfered with or deprived of his purchase. Thereupon the
governor and captain general of the kingdom, under date of
April 18, 1765, ordered that the previous order be carried into
effect, and that the parties be again notified not to settle by
building or cultivation at the said place of Capulin, "they
being permitted only to have their stock on the said place of
the Capulin as crown land, as the other residents do, but without prejudice to the pueblos and republics of the Indians of
Cochiti and San Ildefonso," which the alcalde mayor of the
city of Santa F6 was directed to notify to them, and which he
accordingly did, and made return thereof.
Attached to these papers is the grant to Andres Montoya,
which covers a tract between the orchards or gardens of
Cochiti on the south, and on the north by the orchards of
San Ildefonso. This grant, which was made in 1739, seems
to have been subsequently cancelled as fraudulent, because
there did not appear to be any citation of the adjoining land
holders.
The litigation seems to have been terminated by an order
of April 25, 1767, made by Don Fermin de Mendinueta, governor and captain general, reciting the nullity of the grant to
Montoya, and that the attempted settlement by Romero was
in 1765, twenty-six years after the grant was made (1739);
declaring the grant to Montoya to be of no value; that the
only rights which Romero had were those enjoyed and used by
the natives of Cochiti and the adjoining residents, as crown
lands, and ordering that neither Romero nor anybody else
should settle or have ownership in the said tract of the Capulin,
and "that it shall be held and esteemed as crown land for the
common benefit of all those who may desire to pasture their
stock on the same, without excluding the said Romero."
Of course, these proceedings cannot be considered in the
light of re8 adjudicata,since neither the Spanish crown, the
predecessor in title of the United States, nor Lucero were

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

parties thereto. The only weight that can be given to them
is that of a general reputation that the lands upon the Cafiada
de Capulin were considered and treated as crown lands, over
which the Cochiti Indians and other residents of the neighborhood had some indefinite rights of pasturage. As these
lands were within the asserted grant to Lucero, it is somewhat singular that he made no resistance to the claim of
Romero; put forward no title in himself; and left the litigation to be carried on by the natives and other residents of
that neighborhood, who were allowed to pasture upon these
lands as crown lands.
6. Similar considerations apply to the adjudication of 1785,
which arose from an alleged intrusion by one Antonio Gallego
upon lands in the Cafiada de en Medio. The proceedings
opened by a petition by the heirs of Lucero to the chief
alcalde and war captain, Antonio de Armenta, claiming to
be residents of the jurisdiction of the Cafiada de Cochiti, and
heirs of the place, and complaining that their lieutenant was
seeking to possess for himself for the purpose of pasturing
"the few cavalry we have for the royal service of His Majesty,
whom may God preserve, and for better protection concerning
which we declare, sir, that that favor of our lieutenant is very
grievous," the petition terminating with a prayer that the
matter be examined into, and their rights protected.
Upon this petition, the alcalde made an order reciting the
injury done to the heirs of Lucero in desiring that the Cafiada
de en Medio remain reserved for cavalry upon the petition of
Gallego, and finding that the petitioners were, in all respects,
the legal heirs to the tract.
The proceedings in this litigation undoubtedly form a
strong item- of testimony in favor of the claimants' theory of
this case, and we are. by no means disposed to deny their
weight. At the same time they are by no means conclusive.
The crown was not a party to nor represented in the litigation.
There was no attempt to adjudicate that the northern boun-

dary was the Pueblo Viejo, or that the Luceros had a good title
to the cafiada against any one but Gallego, who seems to have
been little better than a trespasser, and put forward no title to

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the land himself. Indeed, it would appear from the order of
the alcalde that such right as he had was "by favor only" to
"raise a few sheep * * * without having any title or
document which might accredit its being his."
7. The next item of testimony upon which the claimant
relies is that of the so-called testimonio por concuerda, which
purports to have been made in 1817 by Juan Antonio Cabesa
de Baca, chief alcalde of the jurisdiction of Cochiti, and is
certified to be "a true, faithful and legal copy of the documents of grant to which they refer, of which, as they are incomplete and very badly treated [truncos y may mal tratado8],
this copy has been made with great labor before the witnesses
of my attendance, who saw it made, corrected and amended
from the original instruments." The first paper is a restored
petition of Lucero, at the foot of which is a grant by the governor and captain general, Bustamente, countersigned by his
secretary of state and war. Following this is the certificate
of Andres Montoya, chief alcalde, to the effect that on August
6, 1728, he gave to Lucero possession of the lands "expressed
and mentioned in this grant," and, having registered the same,
took Lucero by the hand and "conducted him over said land
in sign of lawful possession, and there being no person whatever, who, under a better right might claim the same, I
deemed it good."
The court below was of opinion that this proceeding was
wholly void; that it was in the nature of a case against
the crown; that the effect of it would be to create evidence
to deprive the crown of title to its land, and that alcaldes had
no jurisdiction of that kind. 'We do not find it necessary,
however, to determine this question, since, so far as we can
judge, this testimonio, or official copy, does not differ in any
essential particular from the original, except so far as making
more definite the westerly boundary of the grant at Sierra de
Jemez. That a grant was actually made to Lucero is not disputed. So far as the erasures and mutilations of the original
are supplied in the restored grant, they are immaterial, except
as connected with the description, which is an exact reproduction of the description in the original grant, except as to the
VOL. cLxVn-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

western boundary, which is declared to be the Sierra do
Jemez; and, as we have already found that this is what was
intended by the parties, this alleged copy is only a confirmation of the opinion we have already reached from an inspection
of the original grant, and from the probabilities of the case.
We do not regard this copy as affecting at, all the conclusions
to be reached from the other evidence in the case.
8. The claimant also relies upon a long-continued adverse
possession of this land, maintained for nearly 170 years from
the date of the grant, and nearly eighty years from the date
of the testimonio issued by the alcalde mayor de Baca. Had
it been shown that this possession was complete, adverse and
undisputed during the whole life of this grant, such possession
would probably be regarded as complete evidence of title.
Nor are we disposed to deny that the fact that the Luceros,
and their descendants pastured stock upon these lands is evidence of such possession, but in order to make it of any particular weight it should be shown to have been exclusive, and
that no other person pastured or had the same right to pasture
upon these lands. The proceedings in the case, first above
mentioned, of the intrusion by the Romeros indicate the lands
to have been held in common and to have been subject to
pasturage by the Indians, and other residents of that neighborhood. Under such circumstances, it should be made to
appear that the rights of Lucero and his descendants were
exclusive in this particular. In addition to this, however, it is
a fact, so notorious that we may take judicial notice of it, that
mere pasturage upon these western lands is very slight evidence of possession. The court below was of opinion that
"from a practical standpoint the grazing of stock in this country has no value as evidence of practical location." In view
of the fact that all, or nearly all, of this testimony respecting
possession is given by witnesses who are descended from
Lucero, or connected with his family, or are interested in the
litigation, and the possession relied upon is not shown to have
been exclusive, or inconsistent with the use of this vast tract
as a pasturage common to all the dwellers in that neighborhood, we think the court did not err in refusing to give it
weight as evidence of title.

WHITNEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Other ancient documents offered by the claimants may be
laid out of consideration. They consist principally of conveyances, to some of which members of the Lucero family were
parties, but the descriptions of the lands are too uncertain to
afford any definite information upon the extent of the grant,
or even of what was claimed by Lucero in that connection.
Upon the whole, we have come to the conclusion that the
claimants have not made out their case by a fair preponderance of evidence, or such weight of testimony as is necessary
to establish their title to this large tract of land. We should
have reached this conclusion without hesitation had it not
been for the proceedings connected with the ouster of Antonio
Gallego from the Cafiada de en Medio in 1785, which is really
the only item of testimony at all inconsistent with the Government's theory of the case; but, after all, this is but evidence of a general reputation, or of a judicial ruling in a case
to which the crown was not a party; and it is not at all
improbable that the alcalde may have considered Lucero's
title to be good as against one who had no title at all beyond
a mere permit to pasture a few horses, or raise a few sheep
thereon, "without having any title or document which might
accredit its being his." It does not follow that, if the Government itself had attacked the grant or the extent of it, his
ruling upon that point would not have been different; in fact,
the ruling in the prior case between the Indians of the pueblo
and the IRomeros is about as strong evidence that the lands at
El Capulin, also within the assumed limits of the grant, were
crown lands, as the judgment in this case was that the lands
upon the Cafiada de en Medio belonged to the Luceros.
These judgments are really of little value except as throwing light upon the occupation or attempted occupation by
Lucero of that portion of the tract lying nearest to the Rio
Grande, and of the general reputation as to the extent of his
grant. The chief reliance must be upon the terms of the
petition itself, and it is fortunate that the most important
part of this petition, namely, the description of the boundaries, has been best preserved. The only real difficulty in its
interpretation is the ambiguity arising from the words "Pueblo

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Viejo de Cochiti." The burden of proving the larger grant is
upon the claimants. So long as the description is reconcilable
with the smaller grant, and with a pueblo located upon the
mesa of Cochiti, the Government is entitled to the benefit of
that construction. The location of that pueblo seven miles to
the northeast is supported by testimony too shadowy to be a
safe basis for a legal adjudication in favor of the claimants.
While we agree with the court below upon the main question involved, the different view we have taken regarding the
western boundary requires that its decree be
Reversed, and the case remandedfor furtherproceeding8 in
conformity with this opinion.

BAUMAN v. ROSS.
ROSS v. BAUMAN.
ABBOT v. ROSS.
ROSS v. ARMES.
APPEALS

FROM THE COURT OF

APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
Nos. 631, 682, 683 634.

Argued December 16, 17, 1896.-Decided May 10, 1897.

Under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which
declares "nor shall private property be taken for public use without
just compensation," Congress may direct that, when part of a parcel of
land is appropriated to the public use for a highway in the District of
Columbia, the tribunal vested by law with the duty of assessing the
compensation or damages due to the owner, whether for the value of
the part taken, or for any injury to the rest, shall take into consideration,
by way of lessening the whole or either part of the sum due him, any
special and direct benefits, capable of present estimate and reasonable
computation, caused by the establishment of the highway to the part
not taken.
By the Constitution of the United States, the estimate of the just compensation for property taken for the public use, under the right of eminent

