HEDRICK v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD.

673

Syllabus.

held that a shipping commissioner at Mobile was not entitled
to moneys paid for clerk hire, for the reason that the Secretary of the Treasury had formally notified the shipping
commissioner, previous to the time for which the clerk hire
was claimed, that his compensation would be limited to one
hundred dollars per month, and that no additional compensation would be allowed. When he presented his vouchers,
including the items for clerk hire, the Secretary approved
them only for one hundred dollars per month.
The government's claim that the commissioner was to meet
rent and expenses out of his salary might result in the application of his entire salary to that purpose. We are not willing
to construe the statute so as to require so unreasonable a
result.
Without pursuing the subject into further detail, we are of
opinion that the Circuit Court did not err in sustaining the
commissioner's claims for reimbursement, and the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly

HEDRICK v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA
FE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 154.

Argued January 14 1897. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

F. located a bounty land warrant on the west half of range 14, with which
he was acquainted. The land office, knowing his purpose and intending
to comply with it, by mistake and oversight entered the location as of
the half of range 17 ingtead of range 14. F., being ignorant of the mistake, entered upon the half of range 14 which he had thus located, took
possession of it, paid taxes on it, and sold it. His grantees and their
successors paid taxes on it, occupied it, and exercised acts of ownership
over it. H., by his agent W., who knew all these facts, applied to enter
the tract in range 14 so intended to be located by F., and received a
patent therefor. In an action instituted by H. to recover possession of
a portion of the land, Held, that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover,
and that he held the legal title, evidenced by his patent, as trustee for
those h6lding under F.
VOL. CLXVIx-43 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

ROBERT G. Hedrick filed his petition in the Circuit Court
of Adair County, Missouri, on October 14, 1890, against the
Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company, seeking
to recover possession of the portion of the defendant company's right of way which extended through the west half
of the southeast quarter of section 28, township 61, range 14,
in said county. The defendant company answered, as did
also James G. Wilson and John G. Sanders, who, upon their
own application, were made parties defendant. The plaintiff
subsequently filed replications, and on May 5, 1891, the said
court entered the following decree:
"Now at this day this cause coming on to be heard, the
parties appear, by their respective attorneys, and answer ready
for trial, and a jury being waived, the cause is submitted to
the court.
"And the court having seen and heard the allegations and
proofs of the parties, and being fully informed in the premises,
doth find that this is an action of ejectment for the premises
described in plaintiff's petition brought by the plaintiff against
the defendant, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad
Company, and that the defendants, Wilson and Sanders, have,
on their own motion, been made parties defendant; that -the
said defendant railroad company is the lessee of the Chicago,
Santa F6 and California Railway Company of Iowa, which
company is the grantee of the defendants Wilson and Sanders
by general warranty deeds for the land in controversy; that
the defendant Sanders is the grantee of said Wilson for a part
of the said premises; that said Wilson is the grantee by mesne
conveyances of warranty of one William E. Parcells, who is
the grantee of one William A. Lane by general warranty deed
of date April 15, 1875; that said Lane is the grantee of one
Cavil M. Freeman by general warranty deed of date the day of January, 1860.
"That on July 25, 1860, said Freeman, at the district land
office at Milan, Missouri, where said land was subject to
entry, located military bounty land warrant No. 8470 (act
of Congress of March 3, 1855) upon the west half of the
southeast quarter of section 28, township 61 north, range

HEDRICK v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD.

675

Statement of the Case.

14 west, of the fifth principal meridian (which includes the
land in question), and thereupon received a certificate of
entry for said west half from the register of said land office,
which entry was duly and properly posted on the books and
records of said land office by proper notations and entries in
the tract books, the plat book and the monthly abstract book,
but by mistake and oversight said land was described in the
application as being in range 17 instead of range 14.
"That said Freeman sold said land as aforesaid, and paid
taxes thereon, and his grantees have ever since paid taxes
thereon and exercised acts of ownership over said land, and
since April, 1875, have been in the actual, constant, continuous and uninterrupted occupancy of said premises, making
lasting and valuable and permanent improvements thereon,
such as fencing, dwellings and barns, and building a railroad
thereon; that the plat book in the office of the county clerk
of Adair County, certified by the register of the land office in
1866, shows that said west half, in range 14, had been entered
and located by said Freeman, and the books in said land office
continued to show said entry of said Freeman until some time
subsequent to 1874, when first alterations and additions began
to be made; and the court finds that said Freeman intended
to and did enter said west half, in range 14, and the land
officers in the land office at Milan, Missouri, knew said intention of said Freeman, and that he intended to enter said
tract, and they intended him to enter said tract; and that
thereby he became and was vested and possessed of the equitable right and estate in and to said tract, and became and was
entitled to a patent to said land from the government.
"That on September 1, 1885, while defendants Wilson and
Sanders were in the actual occupancy and possession of said
premises, plaintiff, taking advantage of the mistake made in
said application, by his agent, A. C. Widdicombe, who was
also his son in law, and an expert lawyer, who had full knowledge of the original entries and notations in said books and
records of the land office, as well as of the additions, alterations, erasures and defacements of said books and records then
and now existing, made application to enter said tract of land,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

and did thereafter, on the 20th day of July, 1886, secure a
patent for said land.
"And the court further finds that the plaintiff is not a
purchaser of said land in good faith without notice of the
defendants' estate therein, but he is chargeable with full
knowledge of all the rights, equities and estate of defendants
in and to the said premises, and holds the legal title, evidenced
by said patent, as trustee for the defendant railroad company's
lessor, the Chicago, Santa F6 and California Railway Company, and that plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this
action.
"Wherefore it is by the court considered, ordered, adjudged
and decreed that plaintiff be, and he is hereby, divested of all
right, title, interest and estate in and to the premises described
in the petition as follows, to wit: a strip of land 100 feet wide
on the north and west of the Santa F6 survey, and 50 feet
wide on the south and east of said survey through the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of section 28, in township 61, of range 14; and also a tract of land 100 feet wide
on each side of and along the centre line of said railway company's survey from where it enters the southwest quarter of
the southeast quarter of section 28, township 61, of range 14,
at station No. 7078-39 for a distance of 111 feet to station
No. 7079-50; thence a tract of land 50 feet in width on the
north and west side of said survey for a distance of 450 feet
to station No. 7084; thence 100 feet on north and west side
of said survey and 50 feet on south and east side of said survey for a distance of 1310 feet to station No. 7091-10, to
where said survey leaves said last-described 40 acres and as
the same is located over and across the said southwest quarter
of the southeast quarter of section 28, township 61, range 14;
all the said described premises being the same land claimed
and occupied by said railway company, situate in the west
half of the southeast quarter of section 28, township 61, range
14, in the county of Adair and State of Missouri; and that all
the said right, title, interest and estate accruing to plaintiff
by reason of said patent be and the same is hereby vested in
the said Chicago, Santa F6 and California Railway Company

HEDRICK v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD.

677

Opinion of the Court.

as fully and completely as plaintiff might or could do so by
regular warranty deed, duly executed according to law."
The plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of the State of
Missouri, and upon the affirmance by that court of the said
decree, he sued out a writ of error from this court.
Mr. Marcus T. C. Williams for plaintiff in error. Mr.
Albert C. Widdicombe was on his brief.
Mr.Samuel W. Moore for the railroad company. .Mr. Gardiner Lathrop and Mr.B. E. Guthrie were on his brief and
also Mr. Joseph Park as attorney for Wilson and Sanders.
MR. JUSTICE

SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment brought and tried in the
circuit court of Adair County, Missouri. At the trial a jury
was waived, and the court made a finding of facts, and thereupon entered judgment in favor of the defendants. Upon a
writ of error to the Supreme Court of Missouri the findings
by the circuit court were received as conclusive upon all the
facts in issue, although, indeed, as we learn from its opinion,
that court reviewed all the evidence, reaching the same conclusions with those found by the circuit court. 120 Missouri,
516.
The findings of fact by the trial court and by the Supreme
Court of the State are, in this writ of error, conclusive upon
us. Republican River Bridge Co. v. Kansas Pac. Railroad,
92 U. S.315; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658, 672; Egan
v. Hart, 165 U.-S. 188, 193.
Our only inquiry, therefore, is whether, upon the facts so
found, the defendants in the court below were entitled to the
judgment therein rendered.
The decisive facts were that, on July 25, 1856, Cavil M.
Freeman, at the district land office at Milan, Missouri, where
the land in controversy was subject to entry, located military
bounty land warrant number 8470, issued under act of Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

gress, March 3, 1855, upon the west half of the southeast
quarter of section 28, township 61 north, range 14 west, of
the fifth principal meridian, which includes the land in question, and thereupon received a certificate of entry for the
same from the register of said land office, which entry was
duly and properly posted on the books and records of said
land office by proper notations and entries in the tract books,
the plat book and the monthly abstract book, but by mistake
and oversight said land was registered in the application as
being in range 17, instead of range 14; that said Freeman,
having entered upon said land and paid taxes thereon, sold the
same, and that his grantees have ever since paid taxes thereon,
have exercised acts of ownership, and since April, 1875, .have
been in the actual and uninterrupted possession of said premises, and have made lasting and valuable and permanent
improvements thereon, such as fencing, dwellings and barns,
and a railroad thereon ; that the plat book in the office of the
county clerk of Adair County, certified by the register of the
land office in 1866, shows said west half, in range 14, had been
entered and located by said Freeman, and the books in said
land office continued to show said entry of said Freeman until
some time subsequent to 1874, when first alterations and additions began to be made; that said Freeman intended to and
did enter said west half, in range 14, and that the land officers
in the land office at Milan knew said intention of said Freeman, and that he intended to enter said tract, and that they
intended him to enter said tract; that thereby he became and
was vested and possessed of the equitable right and estate in
and to said tract, and was entitled to a patent to said land
from the government; that on September 1, 1885, whilst
defendants were in the actual occupancy and possession of
said premises, plaintiff, taking advantage of the mistake
made in said application by his agent, A. C. Widdicomabe,
who was also his son in law, and an expert lawyer, who had
full knowledge of the original entries and notations in said
books and records of the land office, as well as of the additions, alterations, erasures and defacements of said books and
records then existing, made application to enter said tract .of

HEDIRICK v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD.

679

Opinion of the .Court.

land, and did, thereafter, on the 20th day of July, 1886,
receive a patent for said land; that the plaintiff was not a
purchaser of said land in good faith, without notice of the
defendants' estate therein, but was chargeable with full knowledge of all the rights, equities and estate of defendants in and
to the said premises.The legal conclusion reached by the state courts upon such
a state of facts was that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover, and that he held the legal title evidenced by said patent
as trustee for the defendants. The propriety of that conclusion can be manifested by the citation of a few decisions of
this court.
Wirth v. Branson, 98 U. S. 118, was like the present, the
case of a contest between the locator of a military bounty
land warrant and a party who had subsequently obtained a
patent for the same tract; and it was held that, as the land in
question was shown to have been located under a regular military land warrant, a subsequent location, though followed by
a patent, would be void; that, as everything was done by the
locator of the warrant to entitle him to a patent, the land became segregated from the public domain, and was subjected
to private ownership and all the incidents and liabilities thereof;
and it was said that "the rule is well settled, by a long course
of decisions, that when public lands have been surveyed and
placed in the market, or otherwise opened to private acquisition, a person who complies with all the requisites necessary
to entitle him to a patent in a particular lot or tract is to be
regarded as the equitable owner thereof, and the land is no
longer open to location. The public faith has become pledged
to him, and any subsequent grant of the same land to another
party is void, unless the first location of entry be vacated and
set aside."
Wliddicombe v. Childers, 124 U. S. 400, came to this court
on a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Missouri. In its
.facts it closely resembles the present one. The suit was
brought by Widdicombe to recover the possession of the S. E.
iHe claimed
4, sec. 36, T. 64, R. 6, Clarke County, Missouri.
title under a patent of the United States, bearing date of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

December 15, 1871, issued upon a location of agricultural scrip
on May 10, 1871. As an equitable defence to the action, such
a defence being permissible by the laws of Missouri, the defendants alleged in substance that they claimed title under
Edward Jenner Smith, who, on July 6,.1836, went to the
proper land office and made application for the purchase of
the land in dispute; that his application was duly accepted and
he completed the purchase by the payment of the purchase
money as required by law; that the entries made at the time
by the proper officers in the plat and tract books kept in the
office showed that he had bought and paid for the S. E. J, but
that the register, in writing his application, described the S. W.
I by mistake; that he signed the application without discovering the error; that he immediately went into possession of the
S. E. as and for the land he had purchased, and he and those
claiming under him have asserted title thereto, and paid taxes
thereon ever since; that afterwards the entries on the plat and
tract books were changed, without authority of law, so as to
show that his purchase had been of the S. W. J instead of the
S. E. ; that Widdicombe located his scrip on the S. E. I with
full knowledge of all the facts, and that he now held the legal
title under his patent in trust for those claiming under Smith,
whom the defendants represented in the suit. The trial court
found the facts to be substantially as stated in the answer;
and the Supreme Court of Missouri affirmed the finding and
rendered judgment in favor of defendants, requiring Widdicombe to convey in accordance with the prayer of the answer.
The case was brought to this court on a writ of error, and the
judgment of the state court was affirmed. In the course of
the opinion it was said by Mr. Chief Justice Waite:
"The mistake in this case does not appear to have been discovered by Smith, or those claiming under him, until after
Widdicombe had got his patent, and after they had been in
the undisputed possession for thirty-five years and more of
what they supposed was their own property under a completed
purchase, with the price fully paid. Widdicombe, being a
purchaser with full knowledge of their rights, was in law a
purchaser in bad faith, and as their equities were superior to

MACKALL v. WILLOUGHBY.
Syllabus.

his, they were enforceable against him, even though he had
secured a patent vesting the legal title in himself. Under such
circumstances, a court of chancery can charge him as trustee
and compel a conveyance which shall convert the superior
equity into a paramount legal title. .
.
The holder of a
legal title in bad faith must always yield to a superior equity.
As against the United States his title may be good, but not as
against one who lhad acquired a prior right from
the United
States in force when his purchase was made- under which his
patent issued. The patent vested him with the legal title, but
it did not determine the equitable relations between him and
third persons. Townsend v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326; Johnson v.
Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Wirth v. Branson, 98 U. S. 118; Marquez v. Frisbie,101 U. S. 473."
Further discussion is unnecessary.
Supreme Court of Missouri is

The judgment of the

MACKALL v. WILLOUGHBY.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Nos. 274, 281.

Argued April 21, 22, 1897. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

Willoughby, being counsel for Mackall in three cases numbered 2373 and
8118, both against Alfred Richards and 8038 MackaU v. Mackall, respectively, the latter agreed with him, after reciting the fact that, "in consideration of the services of said W. Willoughby as such counsel performed and to be performed, he hereby agreeing to conduct . .
No.
2373 to a final termination and adjudication by the court of last resort
to the best of his ability as such counsel, the said Brooke Mackall, Jr.,
hereby agrees to allow and pay to him as compensation for such services,
in addition to what has already been received by him, a sum equal to fifty
per cent of such money as may be adjudged to the said B. Mackall, Jr.,
in . . . No. 8118, by way of mesne profits, damages and costs,
provided that if such fifty per cent be less than $5000, the said W.
Willoughby shall have such sum of $5000, and . . . shall have a lien

