OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

mines" any part or the aggregate of the rates, fares and
charges.
Judge Cooley, in expressing the opinion of the Commission,
well said: "It must be conceded, however, that cartage is not
in general a terminal expense, and is not in general assumed
by the carrier. The transportation as between the carrier and
its patrons ends when the freights are received at the warehouse, and the charge made is for a service which ends there."
3 Int. C. C. 613.
We are informed by an extract from the annual report of
the Commission for 1889, 3 Int. C. C. 309, that there are many
railroad companies throughout the country which furnish free
cartage at some of their stations, but that in no instance do
the rate sheets or schedules contain any statement to that
effect.
However, in a matter of this kind, much should be left to
the judgment of the Commission, and should it direct, by a
general order, that railway companies should thereafter regard
cartage when furnished free as one of the terminal charges,
and include it as such in their schedules, such an order might
be regarded as a reasonable exercise of the Commission's
powers.
But we are not persuaded, by anything we see in this record,
that the defendant company has acted in any intentional disregard of the sixth section.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is afirmed.

SUtAPLEIGH v. SAN ANGELO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 287.

Submitted April 26, 189". - Decided May 24, 1897.

A State, being the creator of municipal organizations, is the proper party to
impeach the validity of their creation, and, if it acquiesces in the validity
of a municipal corporation, the corporate existence thereof cannot be
collaterally attacked: this rule is recognized in Texas.

SHAPLEIGH v. SAN ANGELO.
Statement of the Case.
Au absolute repeal of a municipal charter is effectual so far as it abolishes
the old corporate organization; but when the same, or substantially the
same inhabitants are erected into a new corporation, whether with extended or restricted territorial limits, such new corporation is treated
as in law the successor of the old one, entitled to -its property rights,
and subject to its liabilities: this view of the law has been accepted and
followed by the Supreme Court of Texas.
The disincorporation by legal proceedings of the city of San Angelo did
not avoid legally subsisting contracts, and, upon the reincorporation of
the same inhabitants and of a territory inclusive of the improvements
made under such contracts, the obligations of the old devolved upon the
new corporation.
The Texas act of April 13, 1891, c. 77, as construed by the Supreme Court
of the State, must be regarded, as respects prior cases, as an act impairing the obligation of existing contracts.
1Under the facts disclosed by this record, the new corporation is subject to
the obligations of the preceding corporation, as existing legal obligations, in manner and form as they would have been enforceable had there
been no change of organization.

Tins was an action brought by Augustus F. Shapleigh, a
citizen of the State of Missouri, against the city of San Angelo,
a city incorporated on February 10, 1892, under the laws of
the State of Texas. The plaintiff's amended petition, filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of Texas on March 9, 1895, contained two counts, the first
asking judgment for the amount of certain unpaid coupons
for interest on bonds issued by a municipal organization, styled
"the city of San Angelo," which, from January 18, 1889, to
December 15, 1891, exercised the powers of an incorporated
city, within the territorial limits inclusive of all the territory
afterwards embraced within the limits of the defendant corporation; and the second count seeking to recover, as money
had and received to the use of the plaintiff, the amount paid
by him for the bonds.
The essential allegations of the first count were that on
January 18, 1889, the county judge of the county of Tom
Green, Texas, made an entry upon the records of the commissioner's court of the said county, setting forth that the inhabitants of the town of San Angelo, in that county, were then
and there incorporated as a city, within certain described
boundaries; that on the said date the city contained more

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

than one thousand inhabitants; that immediately after that
date an election was held in the city, pursuant to an order of
the county judge, at which election a mayor, a marshal, and
five aldermen were chosen, who thereupon organized a government for the city and entered upon the performance of
their duties as such officers; that on May 16, 1889, the city
council passed an ordinance entitled, "An ordinance authorizing the issuing of bonds for the purpose of improving the
streets and public highways in the city of San Angelo, and to
provide for the interest and create a sinking fund for the principal of said bonds," empowering the mayor and secretary of
the city to execute, under the corporate seal, coupon bonds of
the denomination of $1000 each, and to negotiate the same,
and providing that for the payment of interest on the bonds,
and to create a sinking fund for the redemption of the same,
there should be levied and collected an annual ad valorem tax
on all property within the city at the rate of twenty-five cents
on the $100 of valuation; that in pursuance of the ordinance
the mayor signed and the secretary countersigned ten bonds,
and the mayor sold the same, sealed with the corporate seal
of the city; that attached to each of the bonds were forty
coupons, each for the sum of $30, or one semi-annual instalment of interest; that before the bonds were issued the mayor
forwarded the same to the comptroller of public accounts of
the State of Texas, who registered the same in a book kept
for the purpose in his office, and endorsed upon each of the
bonds his certificate that the same was so registered; that at
the time the bonds were issued the assessed value of the property in the city amounted to $1,500,000, and that the bonds
were issued and their proceeds used for the purpose of making streets in the city. It was further stated that at the fall
term, 1890, of the district court of the said county, the county
attorney, at the instance of a citizen and taxpayer of the
city, filed an information against the mayor and the members
of the city council of said city, alleging that the city was
never legally incorporated and that the defendants were
unlawfully exercising the functions of such officers, and praying that the defendants might be cited to appear and show

SHAPLEIGH v. SAN ANGELO.
Statement of the Case.

cause why they should not be ousted from office, and that the
incorporation of the city might be declared null and void;
that thereupon proceedings were had in the said court which
resulted in the entry of a decree on December 15, 1891, ousting the said defendants from their said offices, and declaring
the incorporation of the city of San Angelo null and void. It
was further alleged that on February 10, 1892, the defendant
city was duly incorporated within certain described boundaries; that the territory of the new corporation was all
embraced within the boundary lines of the old organization,
and, although smaller in area than the territory of that organization, included all the lands thereof actually occupied and
inhabited as a town, and all the streets and public buildings
of the old city. The plaintiff averred that he was the bearer
and owner of sixty of the coupons attached to the said bonds,
which were due and unpaid, and asked judgment for the sum
of'$1800, with interest on the amount of each of the coupons
from the maturity thereof.
In the second count the plaintiff repeated the above allegations, and further alleged that prior to December 15, 1891, the
city of San Angelo, as first organized in 1889, sold and delivered
the said ten bonds to certain persons residing in St. Louis,
Missouri, for the sum of $10,000 ; that the proceeds of the sale
were used by the said city of San Angelo in making its streets;
that thereafter the said persons sold, for valuable consideration,
some of the bonds to the plaintiff and the remaining ones to
certain other persons, from whom the plaintiff subsequently
purchased the same; that the plaintiff thus became the owner
of all the bonds, and of the entire claim against the defendant
on account thereof as for money had and received to the plaintiff's use. Upon this cause of action the plaintiff asked judgment for the sum of $10,000, with interest.
The defendant.filed its second amended answer on April 2,
1895, which contained various averments of fact, a denial of
all the essential allegations of the petition, defences in the
nature of pleas of non estfactum and of the statute of limitations, and a demurrer, of which nine special causes were stated.
Two of the causes of demurrer were as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"2d. Because the said amended petition shows that the corporation which is alleged to have issued the bonds the interest
of which is the subject-matter of this suit had been, before the
institution of the same, declared null and void by a court of
competent jurisdiction, and, as shown by the allegations of
said fact, were null and void, and that said corporation as
organized in 1889 has, therefore, ceased to exist and was, in
fact, void, and said petition fails to show or aver that any subsequent corporation has ever assumed the debt sued upon or
become liable for the payment of same, or that the requisite
number of qualified voters of the city of San Angelo ever at
any election voted in favor of or received any property of the
old corporation or ever voted to assume or pay for the debt of
the old or defunct corporation of the city of San Angelo, and
said petition wholly fails to show that the necessary and
proper elections and each of them were held as a prerequisite
to any liability of said defendant."
"4th. Because said amended petition shows that the territory included in the corporation of 1889 was entirely different
from that embraced in the new corporation of 1892, and which
is covered by the defendant in this suit, and fails to state any
facts which would make said last incorporation liable for said
bonds and interest or the debts of the old and first incorporation mentioned therein."
Replication having been filed by thc plaintiff, to which the
defendant demurred, the case was heard in the said Circuit
Court upon the demurrer to the amended petition, and on
April 5, 1895, the demurrer, as to the second and fourth
specifications, was sustained. The plaintiff elected to abide
by the amended petition, and subsequently judgment having
been entered in favor of the defendant, he sued out a writ of
error, bringing the case here.
Mr. T. K. Skinker for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

SHAPLEIGH v. SAN ANGELO.
Opinion of the Court.

In January, 1889, the city of San Angelo was existing and
acting as an organized municipal corporation, with a mayor,
a board of aldermen and other functionaries. In pursuance
of an ordinance of the city council in IMay, 1889, there were
issued the bonds in question in this case. It was not denied
that the proceedings were regular in form, that the bonds
were duly executed and registered as required by law, that
the proceeds of their sale were properly applied to improving
the streets, and public highways of the city, and that the
plaintiff was a hona fde holder for value.
As things then stood, it is plain that the city could not
have set up to defeat its obligations any supposed irregularity
or illegality in its organization. The State, being the creator
of municipal corporations, is the proper party to impeach
the validity of their creation. If the State acquiesces in the
validity of a municipal corporation, its corporate existence
cannot be collaterally attacked.
This is the general rule, and it is recognized in Texas: "If
a municipality has been illegally constituted, the State alone
can take advantage of the fact in a proper proceeding instituted
for the purpose of testing the validity of its charter." Grahagim
v. City of Greenville, 67 Texas, 62.
But, in 1890, at the fall term of the district court of Tom
Green County, an information was filed by the county attorney
against named persons, who were exercising and performing
the duties, privileges and functions of a mayor and city council
of the city of San Angelo, claiming the same to be a city
duly and legally incorporated under the laws of the State,
and alleging that said city was not legally incorporated, and
that said named persons were unlawfully exercising said
functions. Such proceedings were had that on December
15, 1891, the said district court-entered a decree ousting the
said persons from their said offices, and adjudging that the
incorporation of said city of San Angelo be, and the same
was thereby, abolished and declared to be null and void.
The record does not distinctly disclose the ground upon which
the. court proceeded in disincorporating said city, but enough
appears to justify the inference that the incorporation in-

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

eluded within its limits unimproved pasture lands, outside of
the territory actually inhabited, and that the incorporation
was declared invalid for that reason.
Subsequently, on February 10, 1892, the city of San Angelo
was again incorporated, excluding the unimproved lands, but
including all the improved part of the prior incorporation, and
in which existed the streets and highways in the construction
of which the proceeds of the said bonds had been expended.
What was the legal effect of the disincorporation of the
city of San Angelo and of its subsequent reincorporation as
respects the bonds in suit? Did the decree of the district
court of Tom Green County, abolishing the city of San
Angelo as incorporated in 1889, operate to render its incorporation void ab initio, and to nullify all its debts and
obligations created while its validity was unchallenged? Or
can it be held, consistently with legal principles, that the abolition of the city government, as at first organized, because
of some disregard, of law, and its reconstruction so as to
include within its limits the public improvements for which
bonds had been issued during the first organization, devolved
upon the city so reorganized the'obligations that would have
attached to the origitial city if the State had continued to
acquiesce in the validity of its incorporation?
Such a question was presented in Broughton v. Pensacola,
.93 U. S.266, and was answered in the following language:
"Although a municipal corporation, so far as it is invested
with subordinate legislative powers for local purposes, is a
mere instrumentality of the State for the convenient administration of government, yet, when authorized to take stock
in a railroad company, and issue its obligations in payment of
the stock, it is to that extent to be deemed a private corporation, and its obligations are secured by all the guarantees
which protect the engagements of private individuals. The
inhibition of the Constitution, which preserves against the
interference of a State the sacredness of contracts, applies to
the liabilities of municipal corporations created by its permission; and although the repeal or modification of the charter
of a corporation of that kind is not within the inhibition, yet

SHAPLEIGH v. SAN ANGELO.
Opinion of the Court.

it will not be admitted, where its legislation is susceptible of
another construction, that the State has in this way sanctioned
an evasion of or escape from liabilities the creation of which
it authorized. When, therefore, a new form is given to an
old municipal corporation, or such a corporation is reorganized
under a new charter, taking, in its new organization, the place
of the old one, embracing substantially the same corporators
and the same territory, it will be presumed that the legislature intended a continued existence of the same corporation,
although different powers are possessed under the new charter, and different officers administer its affairs; and, in the
absence of express provision for their payment otherwise, it
will also be presumed in such case that the legislature intended
that the liabilities as well as the rights of property of the corporation in its old form should accompany the corporation in
its reorganization. . . . The principle which applies to the
State would seem to be applicable to cases of this kind. Obligations contracted by its agents continue against the State,
whatever changes may take place in its constitution of government. 'The new government,' says Wheaton, 'succeeds
to the fiscal rights, and is bound to fulfil the fiscal obligations, of the former government. It becomes entitled to the

public domain and other property of the State, and is bound
to pay its debts previously contracted.'
"So a change in the charter of a municipal corporation, in
whole or part, by an amendment of its provisions, or the substitution of a new charter in place of the old one, should not
be deemed, in the absence of express legislative declaration
otherwise, to affect the identity of the corporation, or to relieve it from its previous liabilities." IMount Pleasantv. Beck'with, 100 U. S. 520.
In Mobile v. Watson, 116 U. S. 289, it was held that when
a municipal corporation with fixed boundaries is dissolved by
law, and a new corporation is created by the legislature for
the same general purposes, but with new boundaries, embracing less territory but containing substantially the same population, the great mass of the taxable property, and the corporate
property of the old corporation which passes without consid-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

eration and for the same uses, the debts of the old corporation
fall upon the new as its legal successor; and that powers of
taxation to pay them, which it had at the time of their credtion and which entered into the contracts, also survive and
pass into the new corporation.
There are other cases declaring the same views, but which
it is needless to cite. The conclusions reached by this court
may be thus expressed: The State's plenary power over its
municipal corporations to change their organization, to modify their method of internal government, or to abolish them
altogether, is not restricted by contracts entered into by the
municipality with its creditors or with private parties. An
absolute repeal of a municipal charter is therefore effectual so
far as it abolishes the old corporate organization; but when
the same or substantially the same inhabitants are erected
into a new corporation, whether with extended or restricted
territorial limits, such new corporation is treated as in law the
successor of the old one, entitled to its property rights, and
subject to' its liabilities. Dillon's Mun. Corp. vol. 1, ยง 172,
4th ed.
This view of the law has been accepted and followed by
the Supreme Court of the State of Texas.
The city of Corpus Christi, organized under the laws of the
State of Texas, entered into a contract with Morris and Cummings, a private firm or partnership, whereby the latter were
to make certain improvements and works in the bay of Corpus Christi, and the city was to issue bonds in payment, with
authority to the holders to collect tolls on vessels 'passing
through the bay until the bonds were paid. The contract
was so far executed that the improvements were made and
the bonds issued and delivered. Subsequently, by an act of
the legislature of the State, the act incorporating the city of
Corpus Christi and all other acts relating to the incorporation
and franchises of the same were repealed. It was contended
that this repeal operated to extinguish all right on the part
of Morris and Cummings to collect tolls for the use by vessels
of the channel: they had constructed; but the court held:
That, while the power of the legislature to alter or repeal

SHAPLEIGH v. SAN ANGELO.
Opinion of the Court.

an act chartering a municipal corporation is undoubted, yet
that this power cannot be exercised to the injury of creditors
of the corporation or of persons holding contracts with it,
especially when fully performed on their part so as to entitle
them to the compensation provided for in the contractciting Mount Pleasant v. Beckwith, 100 U. S. 514-that the

repealing act must be considered in reference to the provision
of the Constitution of the United States forbidding the States
to pass laws impairing the obligation of a contract, and also
to a similar provision in the state constitution; that the same
obligation to perform its contracts rests upon a corporation as
upon a natural person; that whilst the legislature may deprive
the corporation of its charterial rights and forbid its exercising any of the governmental powers, it must not be presumed
that it intended also to absolve it from its liabilities to creditors, or to contractors whose rights to compensation have
become vested ; and I'lat, accordingly, the act of the legislature, repealing the charter of the city of Corpus Christi,
cannot be construed to interfere with the rights of Morris and
Cummings to collect tolls, without violating both the Constitution of the United States and of Texas. Morris & Cummings v. State, 62 Texas, 728, 730.
This decision was published in 1884, before the transactions
in the present case.
The conclusion which is derivable from the authorities
cited, and from the principles therein established, is that the
disincorporation by legal proceedings of the city of San
Angelo did not avoid legally subsisting contracts, and that
upon the reincorporation of the same inhabitants and of a
territory inclusive of the improvements made under such
contracts, the obligation of the old devolved upon the new
corporation.

The doctrine successfully invoked in the court below by the
defendant, that where a municipal incorporation is wholly
void ab initio, as being created without warrant of law, it
could create no debts and could incur no liabilities, does not,
in our opinion, apply to the case of an irregularly organized
corporation, which had obtained, by compliance with a gen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

eral law authorizing the formation of municipal corporations,
an organization valid as against everybody, except the State
acting by direct proceedings. Such an organization is merely
voidable, and if the State refrains from acting until after debts
are created, the obligations are not destroyed by a dissolution
of the corporation, but it will be presumed that the State
intended that they should be devolved upon the new corporation which succeeded, by operation of law, to the property
and improvements of its predecessor.
We come now to consider the legal effect of the act entitled
"An act to amend article 541, chapter 11, title 17, of the Revised Civil Statutes of the State of Texas," approved April 13,
1891. That act was in the following terms:
"SECTioN 1. When any corporation is abolished, as provided
in the preceding article, or if any de facto corporation shall
be declared void by any court of competent jurisdiction, or if
the same shall cease to operate and exercise the functions of
such defacto corporation, all the property belonging thereto
shall be turned over to the county treasurer of the county,
and the commissioners' court of the county shall provide for
the sale and disposition of the same and for the settlement of
the debts due by the corporation, knd for this purpose shall
have the power to levy and collect a tax from the inhabitants
of said town or village in the same manner as the said corporation would be entitled to under the provisions of this chapter: Provided,That when any town or city shall reincorporate
under chapters 1 to 11 of title 17, of the Revised Civil Statutes
upon a majority of the legal voters tax-paying property holders of said town or city, all property, real and personal, of the
old or de facto corporation, shall be vested in the new one:
And providedfurther,That the new cbrporation shall assume
all the legal indebtedness, contracts and obligations of the old
corporation: Provided,Where cities and towns have reincorporated under chapters 1 to 11 of title 17 of the Revised Civil
Statutes, prior to the adoption of this act, upon a majority
vote of the tax-paying property owners of said city or town,
all property, real or personal, of the old or de facto corporation shall be vested in the new one: And provided further,

SHAPLEIGH v. SAN ANGELO.
Opinion of the Court.

That the new corporation shall assume all the legal indebtedness, contracts and obligations of the old corporation.
"SECTION 2. In all cases where the commissioners' court
shall be vested with the authority conferred on them by this
act, it shall be the duty of. such court to appoint a suitable
person to perform the duty of tax collector, whose duty it
shall be to collect the taxes within the territory comprised in
the dissolved corporation, until such legal indebtedness of
such corporation has been paid off or until such city or town
has been reincorporated, and shall fix his bond in sufficient
penalties to protect any fund collected. Provided,That such
appointee may be removed at any time for carelessness or insufficiency or other good cause." Gen. Laws Texas, 1891, c.
77, p. 95.
The provisions of this act might be reasonably interpreted
as consistent with the principles heretofore stated, and as providing a method of enforcing the rights of creditors. But it
appears that the Supreme Court of Texas has construed the
act as requiring a vote of the tax-paying voters in favor of
assuming the debt before the new incorporation can be held
for it. White v. Quanah, 28 S. W. Rep. 1065.
If this indeed be so -and it is difficult to reconcile such a
view with those previously expressed by that court -then it
would follow, as we think, that said act so construed must be
regarded, as respects prior cases, as an act impairing the obligations of existing contracts. If the law, before the passage
of the act of 1891, was that, by a voluntary reincorporation
and a taking over of the property rights of the old corporation, the existing obligations devolved upon the new corporation, it would plainly not be a legitimate exercise of legislative
power, as affecting such prior obligations, to substitute an
obligation contingent upon a vote of the taxpayers.
When the bonds in question were issued and became the
property of the plaintiff he was entitled, not merely to the
contract of payment expressed in the bonds, but to the remedies implied by existing law. Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311;
Seibert v. Lewis, 122 U. S. 284; Barnitz v. Beverly, 163 U. S.
118.
voL. cLxvi-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

It is unnecessary to restate what is fully expressed in those
cases.
As the city of San Angelo was organized under a general
statute, which provided for the offices of mayor and secretary
for all cities organized under it, 1 Sayles' Civil Statutes, Title
17, chap. 2 and 11, and if our conclusion be sound that said
city, acting as a municipal corporation, though irregularly
formed, was competent to contract for municipal purposes,
and that the obligations of such contracts devolved by operation of law upon the new corporation, the official action and
character of the mayor and secretary in signing and sealing
the securities cannot he challenged. Such objection raises
merely the same question in another form.
Norton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 425, is not to the contrary. There certain persons who undertook to act as county
commissioners were adjudged to be usurpers as against others
who were lawful officers, and it was held that, as the acts of
the legislature which created the board of commissioners was
unconstitutional, there were no de jure offices, and, therefore,
no de jure officers. But the general rule was recognized that
"where an office exists under the law, it matters not how the
appointment of the incumbent is made, so far as the validity
of his acts are concerned. It is enough that he is clothed
with the insignia of the office, and exercises its powers and
functions."
We conclude that the Circuit Court erred in sustaining the
defendant's general exception and special exceptions second
and fourth, and that the judgment of that court must be reversed and a new trial awarded. But it is proper that we
should observe that we do not desire to be understood as holding that the plaintiff can maintain that count of his amended
petition whereby he claims to recover the principal amount
of bonds which have not matured. The theory of that count
apparently is that the liability of the defendant is of an equitable character, and that the outstanding obligations of the
old corporation can be regarded as presently due.
When we hold that the new 'corporation, under the facts
disclosed by this record, is subject to the obligations of the

ST. JOSEPH & GRAND ISLAND R'D v. STEELE.

659

Statement of the Case.

preceding corporation, we mean subject to them as existing
legal obligations, in manner and form as they would have
been enforceable had there been no change of organization.
The judgment of the Cirguit Court isreversed, aid the cause
is r6mandedfor further proceedingsnot inconsistont with
this opinion.

ST. JOSEPH AND GRAND ISLAND RAILROAD
COMPANY v. STEELE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 256. Argued March 31,April 1, 189T. - Decided May 24, 1897.

No Federal question is presented in this bill, on which the Circuit Court
could base the exercise of jurisdiction, and such jurisdiction cannot be
found in the character of the controversy as one existing between citizens
of different states.
A railroad company, owning and operating a line running through several
States, may receive and exercise powers granted by each, but does not
thereby become a citizen of every State it passes through, within the
meaning of the jurisdiction clause of the Constitution of the United
States.

THE St. Joseph and Grand Island Railroad Company, describing itself as a corporation created and subsisting under
and by virtue of the laws of Kansas and Nebraska, and as a
common carrier operating a railroad as a continuous line from
the city of Grand Island, in the State of Nebraska, to the city
of St. Joseph, in the State of Missouri, which railroad passes
through Doniphan County, in the State of Kansas, filed, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Kansas, a bill of complaint against R. M. Steele, sheriff, of
said Doniphan County, and a citizen of the State of Kansas,
seeking to restrain the said Steele, as sheriff of Doniphan
County, from levying upon and selling the complainant's
property situated in said county, for taxes assessed and levied
against the same for the year 1892 by the assessing authorities
of Doniphan County.

