TWIN CITY BANK v. NEBEKER.
Opinion of the Court.

1 Story on Const. ยง 880. The main purpose that Congress
had in view was to provide a national currency based upon
United States bonds, and to that end it was deemed wise to
impose the tax in question. The tax was a means for effectually accomplishing the great object of giving to the people a
currency that would rest, primarily,, upon the honor of the
United States, and be available in every part of the country.
There was no purpose by the act or by any of its provisions
to raise revenue to be applied in meeting the expenses or
obligations of the Government.
This interpretation of the statute renders it unnecessary to
consider whether, for the decision of the question before us,
the journals of the two Houses of Congress can be referred
to for the purpose of determining whether an act, duly
attested by the official signatures of the President of the
Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the
President, and which is of record in the State Department
as an act passed by Congress, originated in the one body or
the other. And for the reasons stated, it is not necessary to
inquire whether, in any view of the case, the defendant would
have been personally liable for the tax collected by him pursuant to the act of Congress, and subsequently covered into
the Treasury.
Judgment afirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE concurs, in the result.

LUMBERMAN'S BANK V. HUSTON. Error to the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia. .No. 203. Argued and submitted
April 21, 1897. Decided May 10, 1897
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The most favorable view of this case for the plaintiff in error is
to regard it as presenting the same question that was determined

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.
in Twin City National Bank v. Nebeker, just decided.
reasons stated in the opinion in that case the judgment is

For the
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE concurred in the result.
Mr. John J. Crawford for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Solicitor General for defendant in error.

TINDAL v. WESLEY.
CERTIORARI

TO THE COURT
No. 231.

OF APPEALS FOR THE

Argued March 25, 1897. -Decided

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

May 10, 1897.

This was a suit by citizens of New York against citizens of South Carolina to
recover the possession of certain real property in that State, with damages
for withholding possession. One of the defendants in his answer stated
that he had no personal interest in the property, but as secretary of
state of South Carolina, had custody of it, and was in possession only
in that capacity. The other defendant stated that he was watching,
guarding and taking care of the property under employment by his
co-defendant.
Both defendants disclaimed any personal interest in
the property, and averred that the title and right of possession was in
the State. Held, That the suit was not one against the State within the
meaning of the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitation of the United
States declaring that "the judicial power of the United States shall
not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced
or prosecuted against one of the United States by citizens of another
State, or by citizens or subjects of a foreign State." Whether a particular suit is one against the State within the meaning of the Constitution
depends upon the same principles that determine whether a particular
suit is one against the United States.
United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, and other cases, examined and held to
decide that a suit against individuals to recover the possession of real
property is not a suit against the State simply because the defendant
holding possession happens to be an officer of the State and asserts that
he is lawfully in possession on its behalf. The Eleventh Amendment
gives no immunity to officers or agents bf a State in withholding the
property of a citizen without authority of law; and when such officers or
agents assert that they are in rightful possession, they must make that
assertion good, upon itsappearing, in a suit against them as individuals,
that the legal title and right of possession is in the plaintiff.

