OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

statute, for it requires the common carrier in publishing
schedules to ' state separately the terminal charges, and any
rules or regulations which in any wise change, affect or determine any part or the aggregate of such aforesaid rates
and fares and charges." It was the purpose of the section
to enforce equality between shippers, and it prohibits any
rebate or other device by which two shippers, shipping over
the same line, the same distance, under the same circumstances
of carriage, are compelled to pay different prices therefor.
It may be that the phrase "under substantially similar circumstances and conditions," found in section 4 of the act, and
where the matter of the long and short haul is considered,
may have a broader meaning or'a wider reach than the same
phrase found in section 2.

It will be time enough to deter-

mine that question when it is presented, For this case it is
enough to hold that that phrase, as found in section 2, refers
to the matter of carriage, and does not include competition.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment of the
District Court is
Affrmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE concurs in the judgment.

CAMFIELD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 278.

Submitted April 20, 1897. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

The act of February 25, 1885, c. 149, 23 Stat. 321, is within the constitutional power of Congress to enact, and is valid.
The Government of the United States has, with respect to its own lands
within the limits of a State, the rights of an ordinary proprietor to maintain its possession, and to prosecute trespassers; and may legislate for
their protection, though such legislation may involve the exercise of the
police power; and may complain of and take steps to prevent acts of
individuals, in fencing in its lands, even though done for the purpose of
irrigation and pasturing.

CAMFIEL1) v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
THIS was a bill in equity, originally filed by the United
States in the Circuit Court for the District of Colorado, to
compel the removal and abatement of a fence erected and
maintained by the defendants, whereby about 20,000 acres of
public lands were enclosed, and appropriated to the exclusive
use and benefit of the defendants.
The bill averred, in sUbstance, that the defendants Daniel A.
Camfield and William Drury, with intent to encroach and
intrude upon the landsof the United States in an illegal manner, and to monopolize the use of the same for their own
special benefit, did, on or about the 1st of January, 1893, construct and maintain a fence; which enclosed and included
about twenty thousand acres of the public domain; that the
effect of such enclosure was to exclude the United States and
all other persons, except the defendants, therefrom; and that
the lands thus wrongfully enclosed consisted of all of the
even-numbered sections in townships numbered 7 and 8 north,
of range 63 west, of the sixth prindipal meridian. The bill
further averred that said townships 7 and 8 lie within the
limits of the grant made by the Government 'to the Union
Pacific Railroad Company; that the defendants had acquired
from said railroad company the right to use all the oddnumbered sections of land which lie within said townships 7
and 8 and outside thereof, immediately adjacent to the evennumbered sections lying within and on the margin of said
townships, and that, in building the fence complained of, the
defendants had constructed it entirely on odd-numbered sections, either within or without townships 7 and 8, so as to completely enclose all of the government lands .aforesaid, but
without locating the fence on any part of the public domain.
so included.
The subjoined diagram of one township will serve to illustrate the manner in which the fence was constructed so as to
enclose the even-numbered sections. The fence is indicated
by the dotted lines.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

--

6

-

--

--

-

- -

-

5

4

3

2

1'

8

9

10

11

12

_

"__

- I.
. . .... .

18

17

16

15

14

13

19

20

21

22

23

24

30

29

28

27

26

25

31

32

33

34

35

36

,

The defendants admitted by their answer that they had
constructed a fence so as to enclose all of the even-numbered
sections in townships 7 and 8 substantially as set out above in
the plaintiff's complaint, save and except that at each section
line a swinging gate had been placed to afford access to so
much of the public domain as was enclosed by the aforesaid
fence. By their answer the defendants sought to justify the
erection of the fence in question, upon the ground that they
owned all the odd-numbered sections in townships 7 and 8,
and that they were engaged in building large reservoirs for
the purpose of irrigating the land by them owned, and much
other land in that vicinity. They averred that, in carrying
out such irrigation scheme, they found it necessary to fence
their rands in townships 7 and 8, in the manner above described. They also denied that they had any intention of
monopolizing the even-numbered sections enclosed by said

CAMFIELD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

fence or to exclude the public therefrom; and further
averred, in substance, *that the work in which they were engaged was of great importance and utility, and would redound to the great advantage of. the United States and its
citizens.
An exception was filed to the answer upon the ground that
it was insufficient to constitute a defence to the bill. This exception was sustained, 59 Fed. Rep. 562, and, as the defendants
declined to plead further, a decree was entered in favor of the
Government, from which decree the defendants appealed to
the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the judgmeut of the
Circuit Court. 32 U. S. App. 42, 123. Whereupon defendants appealed to this court.
Mr. James 11' _lcCreery, Mr. Charles W. Bates and Mr.
C. IV. Bunn for appellants.
Mr. Solicitor General for appellees.
MR. JusTICE BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the construction and application of the
act of Congress of February 25, 1885, c. 149, entitled "An act
to prevent unlawful occupancy of the public lands." 23 Stat.
321. The first section of the act reads as follows:
"That all enclosures of any public lands in any State or
Territory of the United States, heretofore or to be hereafter
made, erected or constructed by any person, party, association
or corporation, to any of which land included within the enclosure the person, party, association or corporation making
or controlling the enclosure had no claim or color of title
made or acquired in good faith, or an asserted right thereto
by or under claim, made in good faith with a view to entry
thereof at the proper land office under the general laws of
the United States at the time any such enclosure was or shall
be made, are hereby declared to be unlawful, and the maintenance, erection, construction or control of any such enclosure
is hereby forbidden and prohibited; and the assertion of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

right to the exclusive use and occupancy of any part of the
public lands of the United States in aiiy State or any of the
Territories of the United States, without claim, color of title
or asserted right, as above specified as to enclosure, is likewise
declared unlawful and hereby prohibited."
By section 2 of said act, it is made the duty of the district
attorney of the United States for the proper district, when
complaint is made to him by affidavit by any citizen of the
United States, that section 1 of the act is being violated, to
institute a civil suit in -the name of the United States in the
.proper United States District or Circuit Court against the
person or persons in charge of or controlling the unlawful enclosure complained of. By this section jurisdiction is also
conferred upon any United States District or Circuit Court,
or territorial District Court having jurisdiction over the locality where the land enclosed, or any part thereof, shall be situated, to hear and determine proceedings in equity, by writ of
injunction, to restrain violations of the provisions of the act.
It is also made- the duty of said courts in case any enclosure
shallbe found to be unlawful, to make the proper order, judgment or decree for the destruction of the same, in a summary
way, unless the enclosure shall be removed by the parties complained of within five days after they are ordered to do so.
Defendants are certainly within the letter of this statute.
They did enclose public lands of the United States to the
amount of 20;000 acres, and there is nothing tending -to show
that they had any claim or color of title to the same, or any
asserted right'thereto under a claim made in good faith under
the general laws of the United States. The defence is in substance that, if the act be construed so- as to apply to fences
upon private property, it is unconstitutional.
There is no doubt ot the general proposition that a man
may do what he will with his own, but this right is subordinate
to another, which finds expression in the familiar maxim: Sic
utere tuo ut alienum non laedas. His right to erect what he
pleases upon his own land will not justify him in maintaining a
nuisance, or in carrying on a business or trade that is offensive to
his neighbors. Ever since Aldred's case, 9 Coke, 57,'it has been

CAMFIELD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the settled law, both of this country and of England, that a
man has no right to maintain a structure upon his own land,
which, by reason of disgusting smells, loud or unusual noises,
thick smoke, noxious vapors, the jarring of machinepy or the
unwarrantable collection of flies, renders the occupancy of
adjoining property dangerous, intolerable or even uncomfortable to its tenants. No person maintaining such a nuisance
can shelter himself behind the sanctity of private property.
It is true that a man may build a fence upon his own land
as high as he pleases, even though it obstructs his neighbor's
lights, and the weight of authority is that his motives in so
doing cannot be inquired into, even though the fence be built
expressly to annoy and spite his neighbor; and, that in this
particular, the law takes no account of the selfishness or
malevolence of individual proprietors; .Mahan v. Brown, 18
Wend. 261 ; Chaiteld v. Wilson, 28 Vt. 49 ; Frazierv. Brown,
12 Ohio St. 294; Piokard v. Collins, 23 Barb. 444; Clinton
v. -Myers, 46 N. Y. .11; Phelps v. Vowlen, 72 N. Y. 39;
Walker v. Cronin, 107 Mass. 555, 564, although there are many
strong intimations to the contrary.
But the injustice of the prevailing doctrine upon this subject,
in its practical operation, became so manifest that, in 1887,
the legisfature of Massachusetts passed a statute declaring that
any fence "unnecessarily exceeding six feet in height, maliciously erected or maintained for the purpose of annoying the
owners or occupants of adjoining property," should be deemed a
private nuisance, and that any such owner or occupant who was
thereby injured in his comfort, or in the quiet enjoyment of
his estate, might have an action of tort for the damage. The
constitutionality of this statute was attacked in the case of
Rideout v. Knox, 148 Mass. 368, but upon full consideration,
the Supreme Judicial Court was of opinion that the statute
was within the limits of the police power, and was constitutional; and, although the fence was not directly injurious to
the public at large, there was a public interest to restrain this
kind of aggressive annoyance of one neighbor by another, and
to mark a definite limit, beyond which it was not lawful to go.
The court also held the statute to be constitutional with refer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

ence to fences already in existence when the act was passed;
that although it involved, to a certain extent, the taking of
property without compensation, yet "having regard to the
smallness of the injury, the nature of the evil to be avoided,
the quasi accidental character of the defendant's right to put
up a fence for malevolent purposes, and also to the fact that
police regulations may limit the use of property in ways which
greatly diminish its value," the court was of opinion that the
act was constitutional to the full extent of its provisions. The
case is authority for the proposition that the police power is
.not subject to any definite limitations, but is co-extensive with
the necessities of the case and the safeguard of the public interests. Apparently the principal doubt entertained by the court
was whether the maintenance of a private fence could be said
to be "injurious to the public at large," but it seems to have
been of opinion that such a nuisance might give rise to disputes and bickerings prejudicial to the peace and good Order
of the community.
While the lands in question are all within the State of Colorado, the Government has, with respect to its own lands, the
rights of an ordinary proprietor, to maintain its possession and
to prosecute trespassers. It may deal with such lands precisely as a private individual may deal with his farming property. It may sell or withhold them from sale. It may grant
them in aid of railways or other public enterprises. It may
open them to preemption or homestead settlement; but it
would be recreant to its duties as trustee for the people of the
United States to permit any individual or private corporation
to monopolize them for private gain, and thereby practically
drive intending settlers from the market. It needs no argument to show that the building of fences upon public lands
with intent to enclose them for private use would be a mere
trespass, and that such fences might be abated by the officers
of the Government or by the ordinary processes of courts of
justice. To this extent no legislation -was necessary to vindicate the rights of the Government as a landed proprietor.
But the evil of permitting persons, who owned or controlled
the alternate sections, to enclose the entire tract, and thus to

CAMFIELD v. UNITE)

STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

exclude or frighten off intending settlers, finally became so
great that Congress passed the act of February 25, 1885, forbidding all enclosures of public lands, and authorizing the
abatement of the fences. If the act be construed as applying
only to fences actually erected upon public lands, it was manifestly unnecessary, since the Government as an ordinary proprietor would have the right to prosecute for such a trespass.
It is only by treating it as prohibiting all "enclosures" of
public lands, by whatever means, that the act becomes of any
avail. The device to which defendants resorted was certainly
an ingenious one, but it is too clearly an evasion to permit
our regard for the private rights of defendants as landed proprietors to stand in the way of an enforcement of the statute.
So far as the fences were erected near the outside line of the
odd-numbered sections, there can be no objection to them;
but so far as they were erected immediately outside the evennumbered sections, they are manifestly intended to enclose
the Government's lands, though, in fact, erected a few inches
inside the defendants' line. Considering the obvious purposes
of this structure, and the necessities of preventing the enclosure of public lands, we think the fence is clearly a nuisance, and
that it is within the constitutional power of Congress to order
its abatement, notwithstanding such action may involve an
entry upon the lands of a private individual. The general Government doubtless hhs a power over its own property analogous to the police power of the several States, and the extent
to which it may go in the exercise of such power is measured
by the exigencies of the particular case. If it be found to be
necessary for the protection of the public, or of intending
settlers, to forbid all enclosures of public lands, the Government may do so, though the alternate sections of private lands
are thereby rendered. less available for pasturage. The inconvenience, or even damage, to the individual proprietor does
not authorize an act which is in its nature a purpresture of
government lands. While we do not undertake to say that
Congress has the unlimited power to legislate against nuisances
within a State, which it would have within a Territory, we
do not think the admission of a Territory as a State deprives

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

it of the power of legislating for the protection of the public
lands, though it may thereby involve the exercise of what is
ordinarily known as the police power, so long as such power
is directed solely to its own protection. A different rule would
place the public domain of the United States completely at
the mercy of state legislation.
We are not convinced by the argument of counsel for the
railway company, who was permitted to file a brief in this
:ease, that the fact that a fence, built in the manner indicated,
will operate incidentally or indirectly to enclose public lands,
is a necessary result, which Congress must have foreseen when
it made the grants, of the policy of granting odd sections and
retaining the even ones as public lands; and that if such a
result inures to the damage of the United States it must be
ascribed to their improvidence and carelessness in so surveying
and laying off the public lands, that the portion sold and
granted by the Government cannot be enclosed by the purchasers without embracing also in such enclosure the alternate
sections reserved by the United States. Carried to its logical
conclusion, the inference is that, because Congress chose to
aid in the construction of these railroads by donating to them
all the odd-numbered sections within certain limits, it thereby
intended incidentally to grant them the use for an indefinite
time of all the even-numbered sections. It seems but an ill
return for the generosity of the Government in granting these
roads half its lands to claim that it thereby incidentally granted
them the benefit of the whole.
The Government has the same right to insist upon its proprietorship of the even-numbered sections that an individual
has to claim the odd sections, and if such proprietor would
have the right to complain of the Government fencing in his
lands in the manner indicated and leasing them for pasturage,
the Government has the same right to complain of a similar
action upon his part. If there be any general impression
that in dealing with public lands the rights are altogether
those of the individual proprietors, and that such rights as the
Government has exist only by their sufferance, the act in
question will do much to rectify this misapprehension.

CAMFIELD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

These grants were made in pursuance of the settled policy
of the Government to reserve to itself the even-numbered
sections for sale at an increased price; and if the defendants
in this case chose to assume the risk of purchasing the oddnumbered sections of the railroad company for pasturage
purposes, without also purchasing or obtaining the consent
of the Government to use the even-numbered sections, and
thereby failed to derive a benefit from the odd-numbered
ones, they must call upon their own indiscretion to answer
for their mistake. The law and the practice of the Government were perfectly well settled, and if it had chosen in the
past to permit by tacit acquiescence the pasturage of its
public lands, it was a policy which it might change at any
moment, and which became the subject of such abuses that
Congress finally felt itself compelled to pass the act of February 25, 1885, and thereby put an end to them. It was not
intended, however, to prohibit altogether the pasturage of
public lands, or to reverse the former practice of the Government in that particular. Indeed, we know of no reason, why
the policy, so long tolerated, of permitting the public lands
to be pastured may not be still pursued, provided herdsmen
be employed, or other means adopted by which the fencing in
and the exclusive appropriation of such land shall be avoided.
The defendants were bound to know that the sections they
purchased of the railway company could only be used by them
in subordination to the right of the Government to dispose of
the alternate sections as it seemed best, regardless of any inconvenience or loss to them, and were bound to avoid obstructing
or embarrassing it in such disposition. If practices of this
kind were tolerated, it would be but a step further to claim
that the defendants, by long acquiescence of the Government
in their appropriation of public lands, had acquired a title
to them as against every one except the Government, and
perhaps even against the Government itself.
It is no answer to say that, if such odd-numbered sections
were separately fenced in, which the owner would doubtless
have the right to do, the result would be the same as in this
case, to practically exclude the Government from the even-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

numbered sections, since this was a contingency which the
Government was bound to contemplate in granting away the
odd-numbered sections. So long as the individual proprietor
confines his enclosure to his own land, the Government has
no right to complain, since he is entitled to the complete and
exclusive enjoyment of it, regardless of any detriment to his
neighbor; but when, under the guise of enclosing his own
land, he builds a fence which is useless for that purpose, and
can only have been intended to enclose the lands of the Government, he is plainly within the statute, and is guilty of an
unwarrantable appropriation of that which belongs to the
public at large. It may be added, however, that this is
scarcely a -practical question, since a separate enclosure of
each section would only become desirable when the country
had been settled, and roads had been built which would give
access to each section.
It is equally immaterial that the defendants have undertaken to build large reservoirs for water to be supplied for
the irrigation of its lands, or that they have proceeded in accordance with the act of Congress in acquiring the necessary
sites to be used in the construction of such reservoirs, or that
they have expended ldrge sums of money in providing for this
improvement. If they have enclosed the public lands in violation of thd statute it is no answer to say that they have
enclosed them for irrigating as well as for pasturage purposes.
The violation of the statute is none the less manifest from Lht
fact that the defendants had an ulterior purpose, or a purpose
other than that of pasturage.
We are of opinion that, in passing the act in question, Congress exercised its constitutional right of protecting the public
lands from nuisances erected upon adjoining property; that
the act is valid, and that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be
Affrmed.

