OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

law in respect to these adverse proceedings is that there shall
be a present, tangible and certain right, and not a mere possibility. Of course, the owners of the Vestal claim had notice,
from the fact of the location of the tunnel line, of the possibilities which future excavations of the tunnel might develop, and
so they were not prejudiced by the failure to "adverse." And
as the defendant could not, in any suit which it might institute,
establish a certain adverse right, and as litigation in the courts
is based upon facts and not upon possibilities, it seems to us
that nothing was to be gained by instituting adverse proceedings, and, therefore, nothing lost by a failure so to do.
These are all the questions in the case. We are of opinion
that the decision of the Court of Appeals is right, and it is
Affirmed.

CAMPBELL v. ELLET.
,ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 44.

Submitted May 4, 1896. -

Decided May 10, 1897.

Enterprise Mining Co. v. Rico-Aspen Miningr Co., 167 U. S. 108, affirmed
and applied, and the court further decides that the failure of the tunnel
owner to mark on the surface of the ground the point of discovery and
the boundaries of the tract claimed does not destroy his right to the

veins he discovers in the tunnel.

ON September 18, 1872, George C. Corning and other
citizens of the United States located a tunnel site. They
diligently prosecuted the work of excavation, expending
therein one hundred thousand dollars.
On February 3, 1875, the Corning Tunnel Company, a
corporation duly organized, was the owner of this tunnel
location by sundry mesne conveyances from the locators
thereof, and said tunnel company, while prosecuting the
work of excavation, out and discovered within the tunnel
and upon the line thereof, at a distance of 594 feet from its
face, a vein of mineral-bearing rock in place, which was named
the Bonanza lode, and on said February 3 it posted at the face

CAMPBELL v. ELLET.
Statement of the Case.

of the tunnel a plain sign and notice, giving the name of said
vein, the point of discovery within the tunnel, the general
course of the vein from the point of discovery, and claiming
750 feet of said vein on each side of the line of the tunnel;
this Bonanza lode did not appear upon the surface of the
ground, and was not known to exist prior to its discovery
by the Corning Tunnel Company, as above stated.
On February 9, 1875, the tunnel company filed and caused
to be recorded in the office of the clerk and recorder of the
county of Boulder a location certificate of said Bonanza lode,
giving the name of the lode so discovered and the company
as the locatbr thereof, the point in the line of the tunnel at
which the lode was discovered, and claiming seven hundred
and fifty feet of the vein upon each side thereof; also stating
the general course of the vein. ,The location certificate was
as follows:
"TERRITORY

OF COLORADO,

COUNTY OF BOULDER.

"Know all men by these presents that we, the Corning
Tunnel Company, claim, by right of discovery and by right
of location, 1500 feet, linear and horizontal measurement,
on the Bonanza lode, along the vein thereof, with all its
dips, variations and angles, together with the amount of
surface necessary for working the same and allowed by law,
750 feet of said lode so located lying and being easterly of
the discovery on said lode and 750 feet being westerly of said
discovery, said load being more particularly described as follows, to wit: Beginning at a point in the Corning tunnel 594
feet from the face of said tunnel and extending from said
point 750 feet easterly and 750 feet westerly. The bearing
of said lode is about north 78 degrees east. This lode was
discovered in the Corning tunnel and it is claimed under the
provisions of section 4 of an act of Congress approved May
10, 1872, in Gold Hill mining district; said lode was discovered
and was located on the 3d day of February, A.D. 1875.
FREDERICK A. SQUIRES, Pres.
"(Signed)
" DANIEL A. ROBINSON, SeW'y."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Subsequently the title to the tunnel and the lode passed to
the defendant in error. After the discovery of said Bonanza
lode the owners of the tunnel continuously and diligently
prosecuted the work on the lode and expended each year
thereon the sum of one hundred dollars. On July 10, 1886,
more than eleven years after the discovery of the Bonanza
lode, the plaintiff in error, Campbell, and one Cyrus Taylor,
with full knowledge of the tunnel claim, and of the discovery
and location of the Bonanza lode aforesaid, made a location
of a certain lode, called by them the J. L. Sanderson lode.
This location is on the same lode and vein as that described
in, the Bonanza location, and the discovery cut by which it
was discovered by Campbell and Taylor is within 200 feet of
the tunnel line. Campbell and Taylor did everything required
to be done by the statutes of the United States in discovering
and marking the point of discovery of the Sanderson lode,
and in marking the boundaries of the claim on the surface
of the ground, and thereafter did the requisite annual labor
thereon. Having made application for a patent the defendant in error filed an adverse claim and commenced a suit, as
required by the statute. Rev. Stat. § 2326. This, after a trial
in the District Court of Boulder County, Colorado, was taken
to the Supreme Court of the State, and by that court a judgment was entered in favor of the defendant in error, on the
ground that the proceedings in respect to.the tunnel, the discovery of the Bonanza lode and the location thereof, vested
in him a title to that lode to the distance of 750 feet from the
line of the tunnel. 18 Colorado, 510. To reverse which judgment Campbell sued out this writ of error.
Mr.L. C. Rockwell for plaintiff in error.
Mr.Platt Rogers and Mr.John
iqerror.

.Shafroth for defendant

MR. JUSTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In the-case just decided of -EnterpriseMining Co. v. Rico-

CAMPBELL v. ELLET.
Opinion of the Court.

Aspen Consolidated Mining Co., ante, 108, we have considered
the law in respect to mining tunnels. Beyond what was
there disposed of only a single question requires consideration,
and that is, does the failure to mark on the surface of the
ground the point of discovery and the boundaries of the tract
claimed destroy the right of the tunnel owner to the veifis he
has discovered in the tunnel?
It will be noticed that the tunnel company posted at the
mouth of the tunnel a notice of its discovery of this lode, and
the extent of its claim thereon, and also that it caused to be
filed in the office of the recorder of the county a location certificate, as required by the local statute. Mills Ann. Stats.
§§ 3150, 3151. It will also be perceived that § 2323, Rev.
Stat., gives to the tunnel discoverer the right of possession of
the veins. It in terms prescribes no conditions other than discovery. Thewords "to the same extent" obviously refer to the
length along the line of the lode or vein. Such is the natural
and ordinary meaning of the words, and there is nothing in
the context or in the circumstances to justify a broader and different meaning. Indeed, the conditions surrounding a vein or
lode discovered in a tunnel are such as to make against the
idea or necessity of a surface location. We do not mean to
say that there is any impropriety in such a location, the locator marking the point of discovery on the surface at the summit of a line drawn perpendicularly from the place of discovery
in the tunnel, and about that point locating the lines of his
claim in accordance with other provisions of the statute. It
may be true, as suggested in Morrison's Mining Rights, 8th
edition, page 182, that before a patent can be secured there
must be a surface location. Rev. Stat. § 2325. But the patent is not simply a grant of the vein, for, as stated in the
section, "a patent for any land claimed and located for valuable deposits may be obtained in the following manner." It
must also be noticed that § 2322, in respect to locators, gives
them the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all
the surface within the lines of their locations, an& all veins,
lodes and ledges, the tops or apexes of which are inside such
lines. So that a location gives to the locator something more

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

than the right to the vein which is the occasion of the location.
But without determining what would be the rights acquired
under a surface location based upon a discovery in a tunnel, it
is enough to hold, following the plain language of tie statute,
that the discovery of the vein in the tunnel, worked according to the provisions of the statute, gives a right to the possession of the vein to the same length as if discovered from
the surface, and that a location on the surface is not essential
to a continuance of that right. We do not mean to hold that
such right of possession can be maintained without compliance with the provisions of the local statutes in reference to
the record of the claim, or without posting in some suitable
place, conveniently near to the place of discovery, a proper
notice of the extent of the claim - in other words, without
any practical location. For in this case notice was posted at
the mouth of the tunnel, and no more suitable place can be
suggested, and a proper notice was put on record in the office
named in the statute.
We are of opinion, therefore, that -the question considered
must be answered in the negative. There is no error in the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado, and it is
Affirmed.

in re JOHNSON, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 13. Original.

Submitted April 26, 1897. -

Decided May 10, 189T.

On July 24, 1896, a warrant was issued by a commissioner for the Southern
District of the Indian Territory to arrest Johnson upon the charge of
rape, alleged to have been committed upon one Pearl McCormick on the
same day. Subsequently, and on the 9th of October, at a regular term
of the United States court for that district, he was indicted, and on the
17th of October was arraigned, tried and convicted by a jury, and is now
under sentence of death. On July 25, the day following the commission
of the offence, a warrant, issued by a commissioner for the Eastern District of Texas, charging him with the same crime, was placed in the hands
of the marshal for that district, who demanded of the marshal of the

