OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

the barges. Meehan v. Valentine, 145 U. S. 611. Nor could
it have the effect. of combining the tug and the barges into a
single maritime adventure, within the scope of the law of
general average.
For the reasons above stated, this court concurs in the
opinion expressed in this case by Mr. Justice Brown, when
District Judge, that "the law of general average is confined
to those cases wherein a voluntary sacrifice is made of some
portion of the ship or cargo for the benefit of the residue,
and that it has no application to a contract of towage." 19
Fed. Rep. 272.
Question certified answered in the negative.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN took no

part in this decision.

THE GLIDE.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 39. Argued May 1, 1896. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

The enforcement in rem of the lien upon a vessel, created by the Public
Statutes of Massachusetts, c. 192, §§ 14-19, for repairs and supplies in
her home port, is exclusively within the admiralty jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States.

THIs was a petition to the Superior Court of the county of
Suffolk and State of Massachusetts, under section 17 of chapter
192 of the Public Statutes of Massachusetts (the material provisions of which are copied in the margin 1) by the Atlantic
1 SECT. 14. When by virtue of a contract, expressed or implied, with the
owners of a vessel, or with the agents, contractors or sub-contractors of
such owners, or with any of them, or with a person who has been employed
to construct, repair or launch a vessel, or to assist therein, money is due
for labor performed, materials used, or labor and materials furnished in the
construction, launching or repairs of, or for constructing the launching
ways for, or for provisions, stores or other articles furnished for or on account of such vessel in this Commonwealth, the person to whom such money

THE GLIDE.
Statement of the Case.

Works, a corporation established by the laws of that State
and having its usual place of business at Boston in that county,
to enforce a lien upon the tugboat Glide, whose home port
was Boston, for labor performed and materials furnished in
is due shall have a lien upon the vessel, her tackle, apparel and furniture,
to all
to secure the payment of such debt, and such lien shall be preferred
others on Such vessel, except that for mariners' wages, and shall continue
until the debt is satisfied.
the same
SECT. 15. Such lien shall be dissolved unless the person claiming
the
from
departs
vessel
the
when
time
the
from
days
four
files, within
the
of
office
the
in
contracted,
was
port at which she was when the debt
clerk 6f the city or town within which the vessel was at such time, a stategivment, subscribed and sworn to by him, or by some person in his behalf,
all
ing a just and true account of the demand claimed to be due him, with
was
contract
the
whom
with
person
the
of
name
just credits, and also the
of the
made, the name of the owner of the vessel, if known, and the name
statewhich
identification;
for
sufficient
thereof
vessel, or a description
that purment shall be recorded by such clerk in a book kept by him for
fees as for
pose, and for such recording the clerk shall receive the same
recording mortgages of equal length.
partly in
SECT. 16. If the vessel is partly constructed in one place and
the
another, either place shall be deemed the port at which she was when
validity
the
and
chapter;
this
of
meaning
the
within
debt was contracted,
of the
of the lien shall not be affected by any inaccuracy in the description
stating
in
inaccuracy
any
by
nor
thereby,
recognized
be
can
she
vessel, if
the person
the amount due for labor or materials, unless it appears that
is due.
than
more
claimed
knowingly
and
wilfully
has
statement
the
filing
Court
Superior
the
to
petition
by
enforced
SECT. 17. Such lien may be
was condebt
the
when
time
the
at
was
vessel
the
where
county
the
for
The
tracted, or in which she is at the time of instituting proceedings.
vacation,
petition may be entered in court, or filed in the clerk's office in
of attachor may be inserted in a writ of original summons with an order
and the
ment, and served, returned and entered like other civil actions;
hereinas
except
shall,
lien
the
enforcing
for
subsequent proceedings
after provided, be as prescribed in chapter one hundred and ninety-one
of
for enforcing liens on buildings and land, so far as the provisions
the petisaid chapter are applicable. At the time of. entering or filing
apparel and
tion, a process of attachment against such vessel, her tackle,
like
furniture, shall issue,, and continue in force, or may be dissolved
the
dissolve
not
shall
dissolution
such
but
cases,
attachments in civil
lien.
the labor,
SECT. 18. The petition shall contain a brief statement of
or other
materials or work done or furnished, or of the stores, provisions
description
a
with
therefor,
due
amount
the
of
and
articles furnished,
and circumof the vessel subject to the lien, and all other material facts

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Parties.

repairing her at that port, under a contract between the petitioner and Jonathan Chase, one of her owners, all of whom
resided in Boston and were named in the petition.
Upon the filing of the petition, the court issued a writ commanding the sheriff to attach the vessel and to summon her
owners to answer. The vessel was attached accordingly; and
her owners appeared, and moved to dismiss the petition, for
want of jurisdiction, because the subject-matter was a matter
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and therefore within
the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
The court granted the motion, and dismissed the petition.
The petitioner appealed to the Supreme Judicial Court of the
State, the majority of which held that the state court had
jurisdiction of the proceedings under the statute, and therefore reversed the order dismissing the petition. 157 Mass. 525.
The respondents thereupon filed an answer, without waiving their motion to dismiss; and at the trial requested the
court to rule that it had no jurisdiction, for the reason stated
in that motion. But the Superior Court ruled that it had
jurisdiction, rendered judgment for the petitioner, and ordered
a sale of the vessel in accordance with the statute; and exceptions to the ruling were overruled by the Supreme Judicial
Court. 159 Mass. 60. The respondents sued out this writ of
error addressed to the Superior Court in which the record
remained.
_Mr. Edward E. Blodgett for plaintiffs in error. Mr. Eugene
P. Carver was on his brief.
.Mr. Ralph W. Foster for defendants in error.
II. Millett was on his brief.

Mr. Joshua

stances, and shall pray that the vessel may be sold and the proceeds of the
sale applied to the discharge of the demand.
SECT. 19. Any number of persons having such liens upon the same vessel may join in a petition to enforce the same; and the same proceedings
shall be had in regard to the respective rights of each petitioner, and the
respondent may defend as to each petitioner, in the same manner as if they
had severally petitioned for their individual liens.

THE GLIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The question in this case is whether the lien given by a
statute of Massachusetts for repairs made upon a vessel in her
home port, under a contract with her owners or their agent,
may be enforced against her by petition in a court of the
State, as provided in that statute, or can be enforced only in
an admiralty court of the United States. The diverse inferences drawn from the previous judgments of this court, in the
careful opinions of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts and of the dissenting judges in the case at bar, have induced us to state with some fulness the reasons and authorities
which have influenced our conclusion.
The most convenient way of tracing the development of
the law upon this subject will be to consider the principal
decisions of this court in chronological order, first referring to
the provisions of the Constitution and statutes of the United
States which lie at the foundation of the whole matter.
By the Constitution of the United States, art. 3, sect. 2,
"the judicial power shall extend" "to all cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction." And by provisions, still in force,
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, the District Courts of the United
States "shall have, exclusively of the courts of the several
States," "original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction," "saving to suitors, in all cases,
the right of a common law remedy, where the common law
is competent to give it." Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20,
§ 9; 1 Stat. 76; Rev. Stat. § 563, cl. 8 ; § 711, cl. 3.
The leading case in this court upon the subject of admiralty
jurisdiction over suits by material men is Thie General Smith,
decided at February term 1819, in which a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland,
sustaining a libel in rem filed in the District Court for supplies
furnished to a ship in Baltimore, her home port, was reversed
by this court, for the reasons stated in its opinion delivered
by Mr. Justice Story, as follows:
"No doubt is entertained by this court, that the admiralty
VOL. CLXVII-89

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

rightfully possesses a general jurisdiction in cases of material
men; and if this had been a suit in personam, there would
not have been any hesitation in sustaining the jurisdiction
of the District Court. Where, however, the proceeding is
in rem to enforce a specific lien, it is incumbent upon those,
who seek the aid of the court, to establish the existence of
such lien in the particular case. Where repairs have been
made, or necessaries have been furnished to a foreign ship, or
to a ship in a port of the State to which she does not belong,
the general maritime law, following the civil law, gives the
party a lien on the ship itself for his security; and he may
well maintain a suit in rem in the admiralty to enforce his
right. But in respect to repairs and necessaries in the port
or State to which the ship belongs, the case is governed altogether by the municipal law of that State; and no lien is
implied, unless it is recognized by that law. Now, it has been
long settled, whether originally upon the soundest principles
it is now too late to inquire, that by the comion law, which
is the law of Maryland, material men and mechanics furnishing repairs to a domestic ship, have no particular lien upon the
ship itself for the recovery of their demands. A shipwright,
indeed, who has taken a ship into his own possession to repair
it, is not bound to part with the possession until'he is paid for
the repairs, any more than any other artificer. But if he has
o ce parted with the possession, or has worked upon it without
taking possession, he is not deemed a privileged c'editor, having any claim upon the ship itself. Without, therefore, entering into a discussion of the particular circumstances of this case,
we are of opinion, that there was not, by the principles of law,
any lien upon the ship; and, consequently, the decree of the
Circuit Court must be reversed." 4 Wheat. 438, 443.
The law there stated, as to repairs or supplies in a foreign
port, has been since constantly recognized, and never doubted.
The St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409, 417 ; *The Virgin, 8 Pet.
538, 550; The Laura, 19 How. 22, 28; The Grapeshot, 9
Wall. 129, 136; The Lulu, 10 Wall. 192; The Ealorama,
10 Wall. 204; The Patapwco, 13 Wall. 329; The Emily
Souder, 17 Wall. 666; The Kate, 164 U. S. 458, 466.

THE GLIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

The only point directly adjudged in The General Sm ith was
that there was no lien for repairs or supplies in the home port,
which could be enforced in rem in admiralty, unless such a lien
was recognized by the local law of the State. But the opinion
clearly implied that, if so recognized, the lien could be enforced
in rem in a court of the United States sitting in admiralty.
Accordingly, in the case of The Planter,at January term
1833, it was decided that a lien upon a vessel, given by the
local law, for repairs in her home port, could be enforced by
suit in rem in admiralty in the District Court of the United
States. Mr. Justice Thompson, delivering the unanimous
opinion of the court, said: "The proceeding is in rem
against a steamboat, for materials found and work performed
in repairing the vessel in the port of New Orleans, as is
alleged in the libel, under a contract entered into between the
parties for that purpose. It is therefore a maritime contract;
and if the service was to be performed in a place within the
jurisdiction of the admiralty, and the lien given by the local
law of the State of Louisiana, it will bring the case within the
jurisdiction of the court. By the Civil Code of Louisiana,
art. 2748, workmen employed in the construction or repair of
ships and boats enjoy the privilege established by the code,
without being bound to reduce their contracts to writing,
whatever may be their amount; but this privilege ceases if
they have allowed the ship or boat to depart without exercising their right. The state law, therefore, gives a lien in
cases like the present." He then referred to the case of The
General Smith, as having " decided that the jurisdiction of
the admiralty in such cases, where the repairs are upon a
domestic vessel, depends upon the local law of the State";
and, after substantially repeating part of the opinion of Mr.
Justice Story, above quoted, ending with the statement that,
for repairs or supplies of a ship in her home port, no lien is
implied, unless recognized by local law, he added: "But if
the. local law gives the lien, it may be enforced in the admiralty." 7 Pet. 324, 341.
The principle of the decision in the case of The Planter
was stated by Mr. Justice Story, at January term 1837, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

follows: "In that case, the repairs of the vessel for which the
state laws created a lien, were made at New Orleans, on tide
waters. The contract was treated as a maritime contract; and
the lien under the state laws was enforced in the admiralty,
upon the ground that the court, under such circumstances,
had jurisdiction of the contract as maritime; and then the
lien, being attached to it, might be enforced according to the
mode of administering remedies in the admiralty. The local
laws can never confer jurisdiction on the courts of the United
States. They can only furnish rules to ascertain the rights of
parties; and thus assist in the administration of the proper
remedies, where the jurisdiction is vested by the laws of the
United States." The Orleans, 11 Pet. 175, 184. The libel
against the Orleans was. dismissed upon the ground that the
vessel was not engaged in maritime trade or navigation, and
that the admiralty had no jurisdiction of the claims made by
a part-owner and by the master.
In the case of Yi7e Yankee Blade, at December term 1856,
the nature of a maritime lien was clearly and exactly defined
by Mr. Justice Grier, speaking for this court, as follows:
The maritime ' privilege' or lien is adopted from the civil
law, and imports a tacit hypothecation of the subject of it.
It is a 'jus in re,' without actual possession or any right of
possession. It accompanies the property into the hands of a
bonafde purchaser. It can be executed and divested only by
a proceeding in rem. This sort of proceeding against personal property is unknown to the common law, and is peculiar
to the process of courts of admiralty. The foreign and other
attachments of property in the state courts, though by analogy
loosely termed proceedings in rem, are evidently not within
the category." 19 How. 82, 89.
The question of the extent of the admiralty jurisdiction of
the courts of the United States over cases like that now before
the court became at one time entangled in the question of the.
effect of the regulation of pleading and procedure in admiralty
by this court under the power conferred upon it by the acts of
Congress of May 8, 1792, c. 36, § 2, and August 23, 1842, c.
188, § 6. 1 Stat. 276; 5 Stat. 518.

THE GLIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

The twelfth of the "Rules of Practice of the Courts of the
United States in Causes of Admiralty and Maritime Jurisdiction on the Instance side of the Court -in pursuance of the
by
Act of the 23d of August, 1842, c. 188 "-promulgated
1,
September
effect
to
take
1844,
term
this court at December
1845, was as follows:
"In all suits by material men for supplies or repairs or
other necessaries for a foreign ship or for a ship in a foreign
port, the libellant may proceed against the ship and freight
in rem, or against the master or the owner alone inversonam.
And the like proceeding in rein shall apply to cases of domestic ships, where by the local law a lien is given to material
men for supplies, repairs or other necessaries." 3 How. iii,

vi, xiv.
The last clause of that rule was in accord with the previous
judgments of this court as to such proceedings in rem in the
cases of Tle General Smith, The Planter and The Orleans,
above cited.
At December term 1858, this court made an order, to take
effect May 1, 1859, by which Rule 12 was repealed, and a
new rule substituted in its place, differing from it only in
making the last clause read as follows: "And the like proceeding in personam, but not in rem, shall apply to cases of
domestic ships, for supplies, repairs or other necessaries."
21 How. iv.
The effect of that change in the rule was that where the
only right created by local statutes was a lien upon the ship,
jus in re, without in any way affecting personal liability, this
new right in the thing coufd not be enforced in admiralty in
rem, but only in personam; and that much difficulty and embarrassment were thereby created in proceedings in admiralty,
which were not wholly removed by the explanations, in succeeding opinions of this court, of the purpose of the change.
In the case of The Goliah, at December term 1858, decrees
of the Circuit and District Courts of the United States for the
District of California, sustaining a libel in rem by the assignee
of a claim for coal furnished to a vessel at Sacramento, her
home port, for which claim a lien existed under the statutes

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of California, were reversed by this court and the libel ordered
to be dismissed. The principal reason assigned was -that the
vessel was engaged in the business of navigation and trade in
the Sacramento River, in the purely internal commerce of the
State, not within the power of Congress to regulate, and
therefore not subject to the admiralty jurisdiction. Mr.
Justice Nelson, in delivering the opinion, suggested this additional reason: "We have at this term amended the 12th
rule of the admiralty, so as to take from the District Courts
the right of proceeding in ren against a domestic vessel for
supplies and repairs, which had been assumed upon the authority of a lien given by state laws, it being conceded that
no such lien existed according to the admiralty law, thereby
correcting an error which had its origin in this court in the
case of The General Smith," "applied and enforced in the
case of" The Planter," and afterwards partially corrected in
the case of" The Orleans. "We have determined to leave
all these liens depending upon state laws, and not arising' out
of the maritime contract, to be enforced by the state courts."
21 How. 248, 250, 251. It appears, by the report and by the
briefs on file, that the question of jurisdiction was not argued
by counsel; and by the records and docket of this court, that
the case was decided by this court February 7, 1859, nearly
three months before the rule of 1858 took effect, and in the
District and Circuit Courts about three years before.
But that decision, in so far as concerned its principal ground,
was expressly overruled in The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, 640642, as inconsistent with the series of decisions from The
Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, to The Hine, 4 Wall. 555, declaring the admiralty jurisdiction to extend over all navigable
waters; and was not followed in The Eagle, 8 Wall. 15, 21,
in which the opinion was delivered by Mr. Justice Nelson.
And, in so far as it rested on the suggestion of error in The
General Smith and The Planter, or on the change in the
twelfth rule, it was in effect overruled by The St. Lawrence,
1 Black, 522, and The Potomac, 2 Black, 581.
In the St. Lawrence, at December term 1861, this court
adjudged that the rule of 1858 had no effect upon a libel -filed

THE GLIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

while the rule of 1844 was in force; and affirmed a decree
against a vessel for supplies furnished in her home port, for
which the statutes of New York gave a lien; and, in the
opinion delivered by Chief Justice Taney, said that in the case
of ie General Smith "the court held that where, upon the
principles of the maritime code, the supplies are presumed to
be furnished upon the credit of the vessel, or where a lien is
given by the local law, the party is entitled to proceed in rem
in the admiralty court to enforce it" ; that that case was
decided in 1819, and had ever since been followed and regarded as a leading case in the admiralty courts; that its
authority had been recognized in the cases of .Tle Planter
and The Orleans, and other cases; that while process against
the vessel was denied in the case of The General Smith, because the laws, of Maryland gave no lien or priority, it was
used and supported in the case of The Planter, upon the
ground that the party had a lien upon the vessel by the law
of Louisiana, and as the contract was within its jurisdiction,
it ought to give him all the rights he had acquired under it;
and that " when this court framed the rules in 1844, it, of
course; adhered to the practice adopted in the previous cases,
and by the 12th rule authorized the process in rem where
the party was entitled to a lien under the local or state law."
1 Black, 529, 530. And the court treated the rules of 1844 and
1858 as mere regulations of procedure, under the power conferred upon this court by Congress, and liable to be changed
from time to time, at the discretion of the court, as convenience might require, so far as regarded the future.
Although, as early as February term 1816, it had been assumed that the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction vested by
the Constitution in the courts of the United States was exclusive, and could not be exercised by the courts of a State;
Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 337, 373; yet the question
whether a claim of a maritime nature could be enforced in the
courts of a State by process in rem under a statute of the
State, creating a right in the thing itself, and providing for
its enforcement by process essentially like proceedings in rem
in the admiralty, was not brought into judgment in this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

until December term 1866, when the question was directly
presented in two cases, and was determined in the negative.
The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411 ; The Hine, 4 Wall. 555.
The case of The Moses Taylor arose under a statute of the
State of California, enacting that claims against any vessel for
supplies or materials furnished for her use or repair, and for
breaches of contracts for transportation of persons or property, and certain other classes of claims, should constitute liens
upon the vessel; that actions upon such claims might be
brought directly against the vessel, and the summons served
upon the master or any one in charge; that the vessel might
be attached as security for the satisfaction of any judgment
that might be recovered ; and that if the attachment was not
discharged, and a judgment was recovered, the vessel might
be sold and the proceeds applied to the payment of the judgment. Upon a writ of error from this court to the highest
court of the State to which the case could be taken, it was
held that a contract for the transportation of a passenger
upon an ocean voyage, relating exclusively to a service to
be performed on the high seas, and pertaining solely to the
business of commerce and navigation, was a maritime contract, and a breach of it an appropriate subject of maritime
jurisdiction; and that the statute of the State, in so far
as it authorized process in rem in the courts of the State
against the vessel, was unconstitutional as interfering with the
exclusive admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States.
The case of The Rtine arose under a statute of the State of
Iowa, providing for similar proceedings in the courts of the
State in the case of any injury to persons or property by a
vessel, her officers or crew; and that statute, so far as it gave
such process in rem, for a collision between two vessels, was
held to be unconstitutional, under the decision in The Moses
Taylor. Mr. Justice Miller, in'delivering the opinion, declared
it to be "the settled law of this court, that wherever the District Courts of the United States have original cognizance of
admiralty causes, by virtue of the act of 1789, that cognizance
is exclusive, and no other court, state or national, can exer-

THE GLIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

cise it, with the exception always of such concurrent remedy
as is given by the common law." 4 Wall. 568, 569.
Each of those two cases was sought to be brought within
the saving clause in section 9 of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
As to which Mr. Justice Field, in The Jfoses Taylor, said:
"That clause only Saves to suitors 'the right of a common
law remedy, where the common law is competent to give it.'
It is not a remedy in the common law courts, which is saved;
but a common law remedy. A proceeding in rem, as used in
the admiralty courts, is not a remedy afforded by the common
law; it is a proceeding under the civil law. When used in
the common law courts, it is given by statute." 4 Wall. 431.
And Mr. Justice Miller, in The Rine, said: "But the remedy
pursued in the Iowa courts, in the case before us, is in no
sense a common law remedy. It is a remedy partaking of all
the essential features of an admiralty proceeding in rem. The
statute provides that the vessel may be sued and made defendant, without any proceeding against the owners, or even mentioning their names; that a writ may be issued and the vessel
seized, on filing a petition similar in substance to a libel; that
after a notice in the nature of a monition, the vessel may be
condemned and an order made for her sale, if the liability is
established for which she was .sued. Such is the general character of the steamboat laws in the western States. While
the proceeding differs thus from a common law remedy, it is
also essentially different from what are in the West called
suits by attachment, and in some of the older States foreign
attachments. In these cases there is a suit against a personal
defendant by name, and because of inability to serve process
on him on account of non-residence, or for some other reason
mentioned in the various statutes allowing attachments to
issue, the suit is commenced by a writ directing the proper
officer to attach sufficient property of the defendant to answer
any judgment which may be rendered against him. This
proceeding may be had against an owner or part-owner of a
vessel, and his interest thus subjected to a sale in a common
law court of the State. Such actions may also be maintained
in personam against a defendant in the common law courts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

as the common law gives; all in consistence with the grant of
admiralty powers in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act.
But it could not have been the intention of Congress, by the
exception in that section, to give the suitor all such remedies
as might afterwards be enacted by state statutes; for this
would have enabled the States to make the jurisdiction of
their courts concurrent in all cases, by simply providing a
statutory remedy for all cases. Thus the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal courts would be defeated." 4 Wall.
571, 572.
Again, at December term 1868, in the case of The Belfast,
a statute of Alabama, giving a lien upon the vessel under a contract of affreightment, was held unconstitutional, so far as it
provided for the enforcement of the lien in the courts of the
State by proceedings in rein in the nature of proceedings in
admiralty, because the lien of the shipper was a maritime lien,
and, as was said by Mr. Justice Clifford in delivering the
opinion, "authority does not exist in the state courts to hear
and determine a suit in rem in admiralty to enforce a maritime lien"; "but in all cases where a maritime lien arises,
the original jurisdiction to enforce the same by a proceeding
in rem is exclusive in the District Courts of the United
States., as provided in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act."
7 Wall. 624, 645, 646. The dictum uttered by the learned
justice towards the end of the opinion, and afterwards repeated
by him in Leon v. Galceran, 11 Wall. 185, 192, and in NYorton
v. Switzer, 93 U. S. 355, 365, that "such a lien does not arise
in a contract for materials and supplies furnished to a vessel
in her home port, and in respect to such contracts it is competent for the States, under the decisions of this court, to
create such liens as their legislatures may deem just and expedient, not amounting to a regulation of commerce, and to
enact reasonable rules and regulations proscribing the mode
of their enforcement," if understood, as contended by the
defendants in error, to imply that the States may authorize
such liens to be enforced in their own courts by proceedings
in the nature of admiralty process in rem, is unsupported by
the decisions there referred to, or by any other decision of

THE GLIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

this court, and is inconsistent with several recent opinions of
this court, in which the subject was fully considered.
On May 6, 1872, this court ordered the twelfth rule in
admiralty to be amended so as to read as follows: "In all
suits by material men: for supplies or repairs, or other necessaries, the libellant may proceed against the ship in rem,
or against the master or owner alone in personam." 13
Wall. xiv.
This amendment of the rule left the law in this respect in
the same condition in which, as declared by this court in cases
above cited, it had been before the promulgation of any rule
upon the subject.
In The Lottawanna, at October term 1874, the purpose and
effect of the amendment were stated by Mr. Justice Bradley
(who had taken part in making' it) as follows: "As to the
recent change in the admiralty rule referred to, it is sufficient
to say that it was simply intended to remove all obstructions
and embarrassments in the way of instituting proceedings in
rem in all cases where liens exist by law, and not to create
any new lien, which, of course, this court could not do in any
event, since a lien is a right of property, and not a mere
matter of procedure." "We have now restored the rule of
1844, or, rather, we have made it general in its terms, giving
to material men in all cases their option to proceed either in
rem or inyersonam. Of course this modification of the rule
cannot avail where no lien exists; but where one does exist,
no matter by what law, it removes all obstacles to a proceeding in rem, if credit is given to the vessel." The Lottawanna,
21 Wall. 558, 579, 581.
In The Lottawanna, this court allowed to a mortgage of a
ship precedence over claims of material men in the home port,
because they had no' lien by the, maritime law of the United
States, as declared In the case of The General Smith, and because their claim had not been recorded as required by the
law of the State of Louisiana, which gave them a lien. The
decree of the District Court was rendered before the admiralty
rule of 1858 Was superseded by the rule of 1872. Mr. Justice
Bradley, in delivering the opinion of this court, said: "Had

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the lien been perfected, and had the rule not stood in the
way, the principles that have heretofore governed the practice
of the District Courts exercising admiralty jurisdiction, and
which have been repeatedly sanctioned by this court, would
undoubtedly have authorized the material men to file a libel
against the vessel or its proceeds. It seems to be settled in
our jurisprudence that, so long as Congress does not interpose
to regulate the subject, the rights of material men furnishing
necessaries to a vessel in her home port may be regulated in
each State by state legislation. State laws, it is true, cannot
exclude the contract for furnishing such necessaries from the
domain of admiralty jurisdiction, for it is a maritime contract,
and they cannot alter the limits of that jurisdiction; nor can
they confer it upon the state courts so as to enable them to
proceed in rem for the enforcement of liens created by such
state laws, for it is exclusively conferred upon the District
Courts of the United States." 21 Wall. 579, 580.
In that opinion, as appears by the passages above quoted,
this court distinctly affirmed the following positions: First.
The admiralty rule of 1872 was intended to remove all obstructions and embarrassments in the way of instituting proceedings
in rem in all cases where liens exist by law. Second. A" lien
is a right of property, and not a mere matter of procedure.
Third. Where a state statute has given to material men in the
home port a lien upon the vessel, to be enforced by proceedings like those in admiralty, the District Courts of the United
States have jurisdiction to enforce it by libel in rem. Fourth.
Their jurisdiction in rem, in such a case, is exclusive of that of
the courts of the State.
At the same term, a process in rem to enforce a lien given
by a statute of New Jersey for building a ship was held to be
within the jurisdiction of the courts of the State, solely because,
as previously adjudged by this court, a contract for building a
ship was nota maritime contract, but a contract made on land
and to be performed on land, and therefore not a subject of
admiralty jurisdiction. Edwards v. Elliott, 21 Wall. 532, 553556; The Jefferson, 20 How. 393; The Capitol, 22 How. 129.
Likewise, in Johnson v. 0hicago & PacificElevator Co., de-

THE GLIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

cided at October term 1886, the remedy given by the statute
of Illinois was in peronam, and the cause of action was not a
maritime tort, but an injury done by a steam tug to a building
on land, of which an admiralty court of the United States
would have no jurisdiction; and, as was said by Mr. Justice
Blatchford in delivering judgment: "This being so, no reason
exists why the remedy for the wrong should not be pursued in
the state court, according to the statutory method prescribed
by the law of the State, even though that law gives a lien on
the vessel. The cases in which state statutes have been held
void by this court, to the extent in which they authorized suits
in rem against vessels, because they gave to the state courts
admiralty jurisdiction, were only cases where the causes of
action were cognizable in the admiralty." "There being no
lien on the tug, by the maritime law, for the injury on land
inflicted in this case, the State could create such a lien therefor
as it deemed expedient, and could enact reasonable rules for
its enforcement, not amounting to a regulation of commerce.
Liens under state statutes, enforceable by attachment, in suits
in personam, are of every-day occurrence, and may even extend
to liens on vessels, when the proceedings to enforce them do
not amount to admiralty proceedings in rem, or otherwise confli-ct with the Constitution of the United States. There is no
more valid objection to the attachment proceeding to enforce
the lien ,in a suit inpersonam, by holding the vessel by mesne
process to be subjected to execution on the personal judgment
when recovered, than there is in subjecting her to seizure on
the execution. Both are incidents of a common law remedy,
which a court of common law is competent to give." 119 U. S.
388, 397, 399.
In the case of The J. E. Rumbell, decided at October term
1892, since the first decision of the present case in the Supreme
Judicial Court of. Massachusetts, this court, referring to many
of the cases above cited, stated the general principles of law
upon the subject now before us as follows:
"In the admiralty and maritime law of the United States,
as declared and established by the decisions of this court,
the following propositions are no longer doubtful: 1st. For

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary repairs or supplies furnished to a vessel in a foreign
port, a lien is given by the general maritime law, following the
civil law, and may be enforced in admiralty. 2d. For repairs or
supplies in the home port of the vessel, no lien exists, or can
be enforced in admiralty, under the general law, independently of local statute. 3d. Whenever the statute of a State
gives a lien, to be enforced by process in rem against the vessel, for repairs or supplies in her home port, this lien, being
similar to the lien arising in a foreign port under the general
law, is in the nature of a maritime lien, and therefore may be
enforced in admiralty in the courts of the United States.
4th. This lien, in the nature of a maritime lien, and to be
enforced by process in the nature of admiralty process, is
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States, sitting in admiralty. The fundamental reasons on
which these propositions rest may be summed up thus: The
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction is conferred on the courts
of the United States by the -Constitution, and cannot be
enlarged or restricted by the legislation of a State. No
state legislation, therefore, can bring within the admiralty
jurisdiction of the national courts a subject not maritime in
its nature. But wheil a right, maritime in its nature, and to
be enforced by process in the nature of admiralty process, has
been given by the statute of a State, the admiralty courts of
the United States have jurisdiction, and exclusive jurisdiction,
to enforce that right according to their own rules of procedure." 148 U. S.1, 11-13.
In that case, it is true, the single question presented for
decision was whether a lien upon a vessel for necessary supplies and repairs in her home port, given by the statute of
a State, and to be enforced by proceedings in rem in the
nature of admiralty process, took precedence of a prior mortgage, recorded as required by act of Congress. But the decision of that question, as in the similar case of The lottawanna,
above cited, really depended upon the question whether the
contract and the lien of the material men, on the one side, or
those of the mortgagee, on the other, were in their nature
maritime, and therefore entitled to be enforced in rem in a

THE GLIDE.
Opinion of the Court.

court of admiralty.

The conclusion of this court as to the

nature of the claims respectively was that "the lien created
by the statute of a State, for repairs or supplies furnished to
a vessel in her home port, has the like precedence over a prior
mortgage, that is accorded to a lien for repairs or supplies in
a foreign port under the general maritime law, as recognized
and adopted in the United States. Each rests upon the furnishing of supplies to the ship, on the credit of the ship herself, to preserve her existence and secure her usefulness, for
the benefit of all having any title or interest in her. Each
creates ajus in re, a right of property in the vessel, existing
independently of possession, and arising as soon as the contract is made, and before the institution of judicial proceedings to enforce it. The contract in each case is maritime, and
the lien which the law gives to secure it is maritime in its
nature, and is enforced in admiralty by reason of its maritime
nature only. The mortgage, on the other hand, is not a maritime contract, and constitutes no maritime lien, and the mortgagee can only share in the proceeds in the registry after all
maritime liens have been satisfied." 148 U. S.19.
The form of proceeding against the vessel, provided for in
the statute of Massachusetts, now in question, is clearly in the
nature of admiralty process in rem, and is undistinguishable
from the proceedings, provided for in statutes of other States,
which have been held by this court to be exclusively within
the admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
The lien upon the vessel is created as soon as money is due
for labor performed or materials furnished, and continues
until the debt is satisfied, unless the lien is dissolved by
failure to record a statement of the claim, as required by the
statute; the petition is to be served by an attachment of the
vessel, and a summons to the owners, if known; a dissolution
of the attachment does not dissolve the lien; and any number
of persons having such liens upon the same vessel may join
in one petition to enforce them.
Mass. Pub. Stat. c. 192,

§§ 14-19.
In conclusion, the considerations by which this case must
be governed may be summed up as follows: The maritime

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

and admiralty jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution and
laws of the United States upon the District Courts of the
United States is exclusive. A lien upon a ship for repairs or
supplies, whether created by the general maritime law of the
United States, or by a local statute, is a jus in re, a right of
property in the vessel, and a maritime lien, to secure the performance of a maritime contract, and therefore may be enforced by admiralty process in rem in the District Courts of
the United States. When the lien is created by the general
maritime law, for repairs or supplies in a foreign port, no one
doubts at the present day that, under the decisions in The
Moses Taylor and The Rine, 4 Wall. 411, 555, above cited,
the admiralty jurisdiction in rem of the courts of the United
States is exclusive of similar jurisdiction of the courts of the
State. The contract and the lien for repairs or supplies in a
home port, under a local statute, are equally maritime, and
equally within the admiralty jurisdiction, and that jurisdiction
is equally exclusive.
The necessary result is that the petition ought to have been
dismissed; but, in accordance with the usual practice upon
reversing a judgment of the highest court of a State, the
proper form of judgment is
Judgment reversed, and case remanded for further _proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.
MR. JusTicE BREWER

did not hear the argument or take any

part in the decision of this case.

PECK v.

IEURICII.

OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
No. 289.

Argued April 26, 27, 1897. -Decided

1897.
May 24%,

A judgment cannot be affirmed upon a ground not taken at the trial, unless
of
It is made clear beyond doulSt that this could not prejudice the rights
the plaintiff in error.

