OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. DEFIANCE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 239. Argued March 25, 26, 189T. -Decided

May.10, 1897.

In 1887, the municipal authorities of Defiance authorized the erection of
bridges over the Wabash Railroad, and about eighteen feet above its
track, by the railroad company, to take the place of two existing
bridges. In 1893, the common council of Defiance changed the grade
of the streets crossing on said bridges to the level of the railroad, and
changed the approaches to it by causing them to descend to the level
of the railroad. Held, that the common council acted within i.ts powers
in changing the grade of t he streets.in question, and that the railroad
company had no legal right to complain of its action.
The legislative power of a city may control and improve its streets, and
a power to that effect, when duly exercised by ordinances, will override
any license previously given, by which the control of a certain street
has been surrendered.
In this case, it was purely within the discretion of the common council
to determine whether the public exigencies required that the grade of
the street be so changed as to cross the railroad at a level.

THIS was a petition, in the nature of a bill in equity, originally filed in the Court of Common Pleas for Defiance County,
Ohio, to enjoin the city of Defiance from proceeding with a
contemplated improvement of North Clinton street and Ralston avenue, by which those streets would be so graded as to
necessitate the removal of certain bridges erected by the
plaintiffIover its roadway, where it crosses those streets, and
also the approaches constructed by the plaintiff to those
bridges.
The material facts were that, in the year 1887, the Wabash,
St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company, then operated by one
McNulta as receiver, crossed two public streets or highways
in that city, known as the Holgate pike and the Brunersburg
road, respectively, at a grade about eighteen feet below the
grade. of said streets, where the same crossed the railway, and
that there were two overhead wooden bridges at about that
distance above the track of the railway.
On December 20, 1887, the city council of Defiance passed

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. DEFIANCE.

89

Statement of the Case.
an ordinance permitting this railway to erect new bridges
over and across its track, where the same crossed these two
highways, provided said bridges should be of good and substantial construction, placed in the centre of the street, with
eighteen feet wide roadway, good and substantial sidewalks,
eight feet on each side of said bridges, and with proper railings on each side of said walks, which bridges and walks were
to be kept in good repair by the company. The railway was
further required to allow a distance of twenty-one feet in the
clear between the tops of its rails and the bottom of the floor
beams of the bridges, and also to construct approaches at not
exceeding one and one quarter inches to the foot grade, and
to make the same solid by either stone or gravel, etc.; all to
,be done to the approval of the city and to be kept in repair
by the company. This ordinance is printed at length in the
margin.1
1 An ordinance permitting Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway to con-

struct bridges at Holgate pike and Brunersburg road.
Be it ordained, by the council of the city of Defiance, Ohio:
SEc. 1. That the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company is
hereby authorized to erect new bridges over and across the track of the
railway of said company where the same crosses the public streets in the
Third ward of said city, known as the Brunersburg road and Holgate pike,
provided said bridges shall be of good and substantial construction, placed
in the centre of said street, be eighteen feet wide roadway, with good and
substantial sidewalk eight feet wide on each side of said bridges, with
proper railings on each side of said walks, said bridges and sidewalks to be
at all times kept in good order and repair by said company. And said railway company is hereby further authorized to construct each of said bridges
of sufficient height to give a distance of twenty-one feet in the'clear between
the tops of the iail of said railway at its present grade and the bottom of
the floor beams of said bridges, provided always that said company shall
provide and construct good and sufficient approaches and grade to each of
said bridges, and extend the same to sufficient distance to give a grade of
not to exceed one and one fourth inches to the foot, and to conform to the
width of the present street, said grade to be made firm and solid, by either
stone or gravel, at the option of said company, provided that if gravel be
used, said city will permit it to be taken from their gravel bed without
charge, and to construct and keep in constant repair good and proper
approaches to said sidewalks, and brought to the proper level of the present walk by broad, safe steps where the grade would be too great for a safe
incline; and all to be (lone to the approval of the city, and all to be kept in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the- Case.

Thereupon MeNulta, acting as receiver, caused these over-

head bridges to be constructed with their approaches, at a
cost of more than $2300.
The terms and conditions imposed by the ordinance seem
to have been faithfully kept and performed by him and by
the plaintiff, since it was placed in possession of said railway
property, which was sold under a decree of the United States
Circuit Court, to the plaintiff as purchaser, whereby it became
vested with the railway, and all its rights arising under this
ordinance.
On February 7,1893, the common council of the city passed
two ordinances applicable to North Clinton street, formerly
known as the Holgate pike, and: Ralston avenue, formerly
known as the Brunersburg road, changing the grade of that
part of each of said streets where they crossed the railway
track to the level of the railway, and so changing the
approaches as to cause them to descend to the level of the
road; and further providing that the cost and expense of
such improvements should be paid out of the general fund,
and levied and assessed upon the general tax list upon all real
and personal property in the corporation.
Plaintiff averred, in this connection, that the sole purpose
of these ordinances was to cause the overhead bridges and the
approaches thereto to be destroyed and removed, and the crossing of said highways reduced to a crossing of the same grade
as the railway tracks; that if the city is allowed to carry
out its purpose, such crossings will be extremely dangerous
repair to the extent of said company's right of way at all times by said
company.
SC. 2. The entering upon the work of constructing said bridges by said
company shall be taken as an acceptance of the terms thereof by said company, and shall be regarded as superseding any contract or agreement heretofore existing between said company and said city as to either of said
bridges.
SEC. 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its passage and due publication.
Done at the council chamber in regular session this 20th day of December, 1887.
Attest :
JAs. X. KITCHEL, City Clerk.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. DEFIANCE.

91

Statement of the Case.

to all persons having occasion to use the same, by the fact
that the roads will approach the tracks at a steep, downward
decline on both sides; that the railway track at these points
is on a heavy grade, which renders it very difficult to control
the speed of trains, and that the danger of a grade crossing
will be vastly increased. Plaintiff further averred that since
the year 1856 its railway track had been crossed by said highways by overhead crossings, consisting of bridges about eighteen feet in the clear above the level of the tracks. "That
said highways then, as now, crossed the railway track at
points near together, to wit, about 196 feet, and converge
so as to meet at a distance of 70 feet from the railway right
of way. That the railway track at said crossings lies in a deep
cut, about eleven or twelve feet below the natural surface of
the ground, and is on a heavy down grade and curve, and on
one of said highways buildings are so located as to almost, if
not entirely, cut off the view of approaching trains from persons approaching said track from the southerly side of the
same. That, if said crossings are reduced to grade, as proposed by said ordinances, the approaches to said track will
be down a steep inclined plane on both sides of said track,
on both said highways; so that at said crossings the said
highways will be cut to a depth of about eleven and one half
feet below the adjacent lands. That it will be almost if not
quite impossible for heavily loaded teams to stop for trains
when approaching said track; and that by reason of the deep
cuts both of said railway and highways in which said crossings will be located and of the curve and grade of said railway at said points, the sound of any signal and the sound. and
sight of approaching trains will be cut off, and said crossings
will be excessively difficult and dangerous to the lives of
persons crossing plaintiff's track along said highways, and to
the lives, limbs and property of its passengers and patrons,
being carried on the trains of the plaintiff, on account of
unavoidable accidents and collisions there happening, and
that thereby ,there will be cast upon the plaintiff an additional burden and liability to its said passengers and the
publi.
That the natural conformity of the lands at said

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

-crossing is such as to make overhead bridge crossings of
said public highways over plaintiff's said track absolutely
essential to the public safety."
The answer admitted most of the allegations of the petition,
and averred that notice was duly published of the proposed
improvements in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city of Defiance, and written notice was duly served upon
the plaintiff; but that the plaintiff did not, at any time, file
any claim for damages by reason of such improvements,
whereby it has waived the same, and is barred from claiming
such damages.
Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs in the Court of
Common Pleas, the petition was dismissed. Plaintiff appealed to the Circuit Court, and applied for an interlocutory
injunction, which was granted, but was subsequently dissolved
upon final hearing, and the petition again dismissed. 10 Ohio
Circt. Ct. 27. The case was carried by writ of error to the
Supreme Court of the State, and the judgment of the Circuit
Court affirmed. 52 Ohio St. 262. Whereupon plaintiff sued
out a writ of error from this court.
Mr. Alexander H. Smith and Mr. Henry Newbegin for

plaintiff inerror.
ir. W. H. Hubbard for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Plaintiff's right to an injunction was urged in the state
courts upon several grounds, but the only questions presented
to us are whether the ordinance of December 20, 1887, permitting the railway to construct the bridges and their approaches, constituted a contract between the railway company
and the city for the perpetual maintenance of such bridges;
and whether the subsequent ordinances of February 7, 1893,
impaired the obligation of such contract, or deprived the
plaintiff of its property, or the use and enjoyment thereof,
without compensation or without due process of law.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. DEFIANCE.

93.

Opinion of the Court.

We have found some difficulty in evolving any contract at,
all from the ordinance of December 20, 1887, which, upon its.
face, is a permission or authority to construct these -bridges.
under certain requirements and specifications, and to keep
them in repair. It seems that, in the original construction
of the railroad in 1855, a deep cut of eleven to twelve feet
was made at and between these highway crossings, and in.
restoring the highway to a passable condition, as the company
was required to do under the law of Ohio, wooden bridges
were constructed over the railroad track and distant from it
in the clear about sixteen feet. After the construction of the
railroad, and some time prior to the year 1876, this territory
was brought within the limits of the village of Defiance, and
remained within such limits until the village was organized
as a city.
In 1876, the village, wishing a sidewalk or foot bridge constructed over the track of the company, entered into an agreement with the company, embodied in a village ordinance, by
which the -latter gave permission to the village to erect and
maintain a foot bridge across its track, which the village
agreed to keep and maintain forever in safe condition and
good repair at its own cost. It was further agreed that the
maintenance of such foot bridge or sidewalk should be subject
to the inspection and approval of the railroad company's engineer, and should be built, renewed and repaired from time to
time as directed by such engineer, the village agreeing to be
responsible for its safe repair and maintenance.
About the year 1880, the village was organized into a city,
and in the year 1887, the railroad company, in order to prevent accidents, decided to elevate the bridges, and for that
purpose applied to the city council for authority to do so.
This authority was given by the ordinance of December 20,
1887.
The language of this ordinance is rather that of a license
than that of a contract: the railway is authorized to erect
new bridges of a certain construction, provided that the company shall also build sufficient approaches and grade to each
of said bridges, and keep them in good repair. The city itself

V4

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

agrees to do nothing, except
to permit gravel to be taken
from its gravel bed, without
charge, for the construction
of
such approaches. It does not
agree that the bridges or their
approaches shall remain any
particular length of time, or
that
it shall not make new requirements
as the growth of the city
may seem to suggest. The
only contract as to time which
could possibly be extracted from
this ordinance would be that
the railway company, on building
the bridges and approaches,
should be entitled to maintain
them in perpetuity. The result
would be that, if the city should,
in the growth of its population, become thickly settled
in the neighborhood of these
bridges, they would stand forever
in the way of any improvement of the streets. This
proposition is clearly untenable.
It is incredible, in view of
the language of this ordinance,
that the city could have intended,
or the railroad company
have expected, that the former
thereby relinquished forever
the right to improve or change
the grade of these streets.
If it were possible that a city
could make such a contract at
all, it could only be done by
express authority of the legislature and in language that would
admit of no other interpretation. It is claimed that the
construction of the sidewalks
by
the railroad company was a
considerationi, since it had been
the duty of the city up to that
time to keep them in repair;
but it surely could not be a
consideration for the perpetual
maintenance of the bridges.
If it were a consideration for
anything it would simply be
for the permission given to
the
railway to build the bridges
-a permission obtained upon
a
special application of the railway
company. Properly construed,' this ordinance was simply
a license to the company to
build these bridges, and to continue
them until the city council should conclude that it was
for the public interest to so
change the grade of the street
as to make it a level crossing.
That the city, in the absence
of a statute permitting it,
would have no authority to
enter into such a contract with
the railroad company is admitted;
but it is claimed that such
authority is found in section
3283 of the Revised Statutes
of
Ohio, which, so far as the same
is material, is as follows: "If
it be necessary in the location
of any part of a railroad to

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. DEFIANCE.

95

Opinion of the Court.

occupy any public road, street, alley, way or ground of any
kind, or any part thereof, the municipal or other corporation,
or public officers or authorities, owning or having charge
thereof, and the company, may agree upon the manner, terms
and conditions upon which the same may be used or occupied," etc. By the next section (3284), whenever in the construction of a railroad a public road or stream of water is.
crossed or diverted from its location or bed, the company is
required, without unnecessary delay, to place such road or
stream "in such condition as not to impair its former usefulReading these two sections together, it is open to doubt
whether section 3283 is not confined to cases where the railroad runs along and upon the stPeet, road or alley, in which
case some kind of contract or agreement with the municipality
would seem to be almost necessary for the mutual accommodation of the railroad and the public, who desire to retain the
use of the street for ordinary travel. The matter of crossing
the street, however, is treated by section 3284 as one of the
necessary incidents of railroad construction; and all that is
required is that the company, after having made the crossing,
shall replace the road in such condition as not to impair its
usefulness. This appears to be the construction put upon
these sections by the Ohio courts. 'Lawrence Railroad Co. v.
Cobb, 35 Ohio St. 94; Lawrence Railroad Co. v. Williams,
35 Ohio St. 168; Little Miami Railroad v. Commissioners,
31 Ohio St. 338; Pittsburgh,Fort Wayne &c. Railway Co.
v. Maurer, 21 Ohio St. 421 ; State v. Dayton &c. Railroad,
36 Ohio St. 434.
But conceding, for the purposes of this case, all that is claimed
by the railroad company from its construction of section 3283,
the fact still remains that the ordinance of December 20, 1887,
was not adopted in pursuance of the power to contract, but in
pursuance of the legislative power vested in the city by section 2640 of the Revised Statutes, which enacts: "That the
council shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public .highways, streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks, public
grounds and bridges within the corporation, and shall cause

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisance."
We are also pointed to section 2 of the ordinance as indicating that a iontract was within the contemplation of the
parties. This section is as follows:
"SEc. 2. The entering upon the work of constructing said
bridges by said company shall be taken as an acceptance of the
terms thereof by said company, and shall be regarded as superseding any contract or agreement heretofore existing between
said company and said city as to either of said bridges."
This section, however, does not change that which, in its
nature, is a license into a contract that these bridges shall
remain for any partiaular length of time. The entering upon
the work of construction might well estop the railroad company from objecting to the requirement that the bridge should
be constructed in the manner specified in the ordinance; and
might also estop the city from making any farther or different
requirements in that connection; and t6 this extent there may
be said to have been a contract; but when it is claimed that
the city thereby agreed that the bridges so constructed should
remain forever, and that it thereby waived its rights to change
the grade or the method of crossing, we are importing into
the contract by construction something which is not found
there; which the parties have not agreed to, and which, if the
city had any power at all to stipulate, should have been
expressed in the clearest language.
In the case of the Philadelphia,Wilmington &c. Railroad's
Appeal, 121 Penn. St. 44, relied upon by the plaintiff in error,
the legislature conferred upon the mayor and the council of the
city of Chester express authority to grant to, certain railroad
companies "the use and occupation of the streets, lanes, courts
and alleys lying within three hundred feet of the said railroads,
to be used and occupied by the said railroad companies,
.
shall
respectively, only so long as the said streets ..
remain open to public use and travel," etc. Pursuant to this
authority, and to a city ordinance, a formal agreement was
entered into between the city and the railroad company that
a certain street should be open to public use and travel ; its

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. DEFIANCE.

97

Opinion of the Court.

grade established and fixed for the purpose of having the
street cross the railroad at such a height above the track as
would permit the free operation of the railroad under the
street, and prevent the dangers of a level crossing. The railroad on its part contracted to build a bridge over its track.
It was held that the city had power to make the contract;
that the rights conferred by the contract upon the railroad
company were inviolable; that there was no question as to its
performance of the contract, and the question as to the right
of the municipality to grant away the control of its streets
was foreign to the discussion. The city having enacted an
ordinance altering the grade of the street in such manner as
to cross the railroad at a level, and thereby destroy the overhead crossing, it was held that this was a violation of the
contract.
There is no necessary conflict between that case and the
position here assumed, as the act of the legislature gave the
city express permission to grant to the companies the use and
occupation of its streets, "so long as the said streets
shall remain open to public use and travel," and declared that
such grant should be "as valid and effectual to transfer the
rights and privileges therein contracted for to the said railroad
companies, or any of them,

.

.

.

as if made between indi-

viduals." If the court, however, is to be considered as holding that an agreement or license to construct bridges, which
is silent as to time, should be construed as an agreement that
they are to remain in perpetuity, we should find ourselves confronted with too many authorities to the contrary to accept it
as a sound exposition of the law.
Indeed, the general principle that the legislative power of
a city may control and improve its streets, and that such
power, when duly exercised by ordinances, will override any
license previously given by which the control of a certain
street has been surrendered to any individual or corporation,
is so well established, both by the cases in this court and in
the courts of the several States, that a reference to the leading authorities upon the subject is sufficient. Indeed, the
right of a city to improve its streets by regrading or othervoL. cLxVwu-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

wise is something so essential to its growth and prosperity
that the common council can no more denude itself of that
right than it can of its power to legislate for the health, safety
and morals of its inhabitants.
In the early case of Goszler v. Georgetown, 6 Wheat. 593,
it was held that the power given to the corporation to grade
the streets of the city was a continuing power, and the corporation might from time to time alter the grade so made.
It was said by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall "that the power of
graduating and levelling the streets ought not to be capriciously exercised. Like all power, it is susceptible of abuse.
But it is trusted to the inhabitants themselves who elect the
corporate body, and who may therefore be expected to consult the interests of the town.

.

.

.

There may be circum-

stances to produce a general desire to vary the graduation,
to bring the streets more nearly on a level, than was contemplated in the first ordinance; and if this may occur, we cannot say that the legislature could not intend to give this
power of varying the graduation when the words they
employ are adapted to the giving of it."
In Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635, which was

an action to recover damages sustained by the construction
of a tunnel under the Chicago River along the line of La
Salle street, it was held that as the city was authorized by law
to improve the street by building a bridge over or a tunnel
under the river where it crossed the street, it incurred no
liability for the damages unavoidably caused to adjoining
property by obstructing the street or the river, unless such
liability were imposed by statute; that if the fee of the street
be in the adjoining lot owners, the State has an easement to
adapt it to easy and safe passage over its entire length and
breadth; and that when making or improving the streets, in
the exercise of an authority conferred by statute, the city is
the agent of the State, and if it acts within that authority,
and with due care, dispatch and skill, it is not at common law
answerable for consequential damages.
In the recent case of Baltimore v. Baltimore Trust &

Guarantee Co., 166 U. S. 673, it was held that, where the

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. DEFIANCE.

99

Opinion of the Court.

legislature of Maryland had given the mayor and city council
of Baltimore power to regulate the use of the streets, lanes
and alleys in said city, by railway and other tracks, and the
city council had by ordinance authorized the railway company
"to lay down and construct double iron railway tracks for the
purpose of doing business . . . on Lexington street westwardly to Charles street from North street," the city council
might repeal such ordinance so far as the existence of double
tracks in that portion of Lexington street, lying between
North and Charles streets, would be inconsistent with the
reasonable use of the street at that point by the public and
other vehicles.
In Presbyterian Ckureh v. City of New York, 5 Cowen,
538, the corporation of the city had conveyed lands for the
purposes of a church and cemetery, with a covenant for quiet
enjoyment, and afterwards, pursuant to a power granted by
the legislature, passed a by-law prohibiting the use of these
lands as a cemetery. It was held that a corporation could
not by contract abridge its legislative power, and that this
was not a breach of the covenant which entitled .the party to
damages, but was a repeal of the covenant. See also Coates V.
.New York, 7 Cowen, 585.
The case of N. Y. & N. E. Railroad v. Bristol, 151 U. S.
556, has an important bearing upon the point in issue here.
In that case an act of the legislature of Connecticut, abolishing grade crossings as a menace to public safety, was held to
be an exercise of the police power of the State and applicable
to the charter of a railroad corporation, which was subject to
alteration and amendment by the legislature. The Supreme
Court of Conneeticut held that the statute operated as an
amendment to the charters of the railroad companies affected
by it; that as grade crossings are in the nature of nuisances,
the legislature had a right to cause them to be abated, and to
require either party to pay the whole or any portion of the
expense; that it was the settled policy of the State to abolish
grade crossings as rapidly as could be reasonably done, and
that all general laws and police regulations affecting corporations were binding upon them without their assent. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

court affirmed the ruling of the Supreme Court of Connecticut, saying that "The governmental power of self-protection cannot be contracted away, nor can the exercise
of rights, granted, nor the use of property be withdrawn
from the implied liability to governmental regulation in particulars essential to the preservation of the community from
injury." See also 2 Dillon on Municipal Corp. §§ 685, 716;.
2 Beach on Pub. Corp. § 1068, 1208; Davis v. The Mayor,
14 N. Y. 506; Milhau v. Sharp, 27 N. Y. 611; Coleman v.
Second Ave. Railroad,38 N. Y. 201 ; Detroit v. Fort Wayne
& Elmwood Railway, 66 Michigan 642; Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. Quincy, 139 Illinois, 355; Roanoke Gas
Co. v. Roanoke, 88 Va. 810; Louisville City Railway v.
Louisville, 8 Bush, 415.
While municipalities, when authorized so to do, doubtless
have the power to make certain contracts with respect to the
use of their streets, which are obligatory upon them, New
Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; New
Orleans Water Works Co. v. Rivers, 115 U. S.674; City Railway Co. v. .itizens' Street Railroad Co., 166 U. S.557; Indianapolis v. Indianapolis Gas Light Co., 66 Indiana, 396;
Jndianaploisv. Consumers' Co., 140 Indiana, 107, the general
rule to be extracted from the authorities is that the legislative
power vested in municipal bodies is something which cannot
be bartered away in such manner as to disable themfrom the
performance of their public functions. These bodies exercise
only such powers as are delegated to them by the sovereign
legislative body of the State. -Such powers, however, are
personal to the municipalities themselves, and, being conferred
for the benefit of the whole people, in the absence of authority to that effect, cannot be bestowed by cobntraQt or otherwise
upon individuals or corporations in such manner as to be
beyond revocation. Whatever construction be given to the
ordinance of December 20, 1887, it cannot be held to stand
in the way of a power to make such changes as the growth
of population may seem to require.
In the Matter of Opening First Street, 66 Michigan, 42, it
was held that the laying out and opening of streets by the

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. DEFIANCE.

101

Opinion of the Court.

common council of the city is an exercise of legislative functions, and that any contract made by the city 'with an individual or corporation, by which it agrees that it will not in the
future open or extend its streets in any particular place or
part of the city, is an abnegation of its legislative power, unauthorized by its charter, and may be alike destructive of the
convenience and prosperity of a municipality, and is void.
See also Hood v. Lynn, 1 Allen, 103; Backus v. Lebanon,
11 N. H. 19; Brimmer v. Boston, 102 Mass. 19.
But aside from the general power of municipalities to care
for and improve their streets, an express power is given by
section 2640 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio to the common
council to care for, supervise and control "all public highways, streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks, public grounds and
bridges within the corporation," and "to keep the same open
and in repair and free from nuisance." Under a similar
power granted by Congress to the corporation of the city of
Washington it was held by this court, in Smith v. Washington,
20 How. 135, that it included the power to alter, grade or
change the level of the land on which the streets by the plan
of the city were laid out. It was said that although "the
plaintiff may have suffered inconvenience and been put to
expense in consequence of such action, yet, as the act of the
defendants is not unlawful or wrongful, they are not bound
to make any recompense. It is what the law styles damnum
absque injuria. Private interests must yield to public accommodation; one cannot build his house on the top of a hill in
the midst of a city and require the grade of the street to conform to his convenience at the expense of that of the public."
To the same effect are Callender v. larsh,1 Pick. 418; Green
v. Reading, 9 Watts, 382; O'Connor v. Pittsburg, 18 Penn.
St. 187.
If the duty required by the statutes in those cases can only
be adequately performed by removing obstructions in or
changing the grade of streets, this must be regarded as fairly
incidental to the power conferred, and individual proprietors
are bound to acquiesce in the measure thus taken for the
general good of the public. The Ohio. courts seem also to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

have acted upon the same principles. Nor does the fact that
the city has given its permission to a railway company to lay
its rails upon or across a certain street deprive it of the power
to improve and control such street, and adopt all needful rules
and regulations for its use and management. Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. Quincy, 136 Illinois, 563.
The ordinances of' February 7, 1893, were not beyond the
powers of the common council with respect to the improvement of its streets. While in 1887, overhead bridges might
have seemed a betier and safer plan of crossing the railway,
than crossing at grade, the subsequent growth of the city
may have demanded a different policy in 1893. It is hardly
possible that the approaches required to reach an overhead
bridge, which was some ten or twelve feet above the general
level of the ground, should not have affected, to a certain
extent, the value of the adjoining property as city lots; but
whether this were so or not, it was purely within the discretion of the common council to determine whether the public
exigencies required that the grade of the street be so changed
as to cross the railroad at a level. Dunham v. Hyde Park,75
Illinois, 371. While the modern policy of railway engineering
usually tends to the abolition of grade. crossings, there is no
hard and fast rule upon the subject, and it may well be that
the exigencies of a certain street or locality may demand that
travel shall descend to the level of the railway rather than
ascend to a bridge built over the track. But however this
may be, we are not at liberty to inquire whether the discretion vested in the common council of determining this question was wisely exercised; or what the motives were for
making the change; or whether the crossing so improved
was burdensome to the railroad company; or made unsafe
to persons crossing the track. These were considerations
which might properly be urged upon the common council,
as arguments against the proposed change; but it is beyond
the province of the courts either to praise the wisdom or
criticise the unwisdom of such action. The question before
us is simply whether the council had the power to make the
change, and of this we have no doubt.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. DEFIANCE. 103
Opinion of the Court.

Assuming, but not deciding, that the railway company was
entitled to compensation for the bridge so taken or rendered
useless, it appears from the record that resolutions declaring
the necessity for improving these streets by changing the
grade were duly published for two consecutive weeks in a
newspaper published and of general circulation in the city
of Defiance, and written notice of such resolutions were also
duly served upon the plaintiff; and that the plaintiff did not,
at any time, file a claim in writing with the clerk of the city
for damages by reason of such improvements, as was required
By Rev. Stat. Ohio, § 2315,
by the terms of the resolution.
persons who claim that they will sustain damages by reason
of such an improvement are required to file their claim with
the clerk of the corporation within two weeks after such
service or the completion of the publication of the notice;
and persons failing to so file their claim "shall be deemed
to have waived the same, and shall be barred from filing a
claim or receiving damages." The Supreme Court held that
these statutes had been in force and acted upon for many
years; that their constitutionality had never been called in
question; that they were applicable to the street improvements in question, and that under them the plaintiff's claim
for compensation, if it had any, was waived and barred by
failing to file it within the time required. "The plaintiff,"
said the court, "is charged with knowledge of the law, and,
in the absence of any showing to the contrary, must be presumed to have voluntarily withheld its claim for compensation
and damages, and thus prevented an inquiry into and assessment of them; and it seems clear that an owner, who has
been afforded an opportunity of having compensation and
damages assessed him, in the constitutional mode, for property taken or injured in the making of a street improvement,
and has failed to avail himself of that opportunity, cannot,
after having thus waived his right, enjoin the improvement
on the ground that compensation has not been paid or tendered him."
Upon the whole, we think it clear that the common council
acted within its powers in changing the grade of the street in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

question, and that the plaintiff has no legal right to complain
of its action. The decree of the Supreme Court of Ohio is,
therefore,
Affirmed.

BRYANT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT FOR THE

SOUTHERN

DISTRICT

OF NEW YORK.
No. 779. Argued April 26, 1897, -Decided

May 10, 1897.

Ornelas v. Ruiz, 161 U. S. 502, followed, to the point that if, in extradition
proceedings the committing magistrate had jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and of the accused, and the offence charged is within the terms of
the treaty of extradition, and the magistrate, in arriving at a decision to
hold the accused, has before him competent legal evidence on which to
exercise his judgment as to whether the facts are sufficient to establish
the criminality of the accused for the purposes of extradition, such decision cannot be reviewed on habeas corpus.

THIS was an appeal from a final order of the Circuit Court
for the Southern District of New York, dismissing writs of
habeas corpus and certiorari sued out by the appellant to
obtain his release from the custody of the marshal of that
district, and the. warden of the jail of the city and county of
New York.
The proceedings were originally instituted by a complaint
made before a commissioner of the Circuit Court, duly.authorized to act in cases of extradition, by Her Britannic Majesty's
consul general at the city of New York, who charged the appellant with the crimes of forgery, larceny, embezzlement and
false entries, committed in the city of London, and demanded
his extradition under article X of the treaty of November 10,
1842, and article I of the treaty supplemental thereto of
March 25, 1890.
The commissioner held that the evidence clearly showed
that the appellant had been guilty of a crime specifically
mentioned in the treaty stipulations between the two countries, and accordingly held him to await the action of the Sec-

