INTERSSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 479
Statement of the Case.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. CINCINNATI, NEW ORLEANS AND TEXAS PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY.
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR
No. 733. Argued March 22, 23, 1897. Decided May 24, 1897.

the
Congress has not conferred upon the Interstate Commerce Commission
or
minimum
or
maximum
either
rates
prescribing
of
power
legislative
absolute ; and, as it did not give the express power to the commission, it
that
did not intend to secure the same result indirectly by empowering
tribunal to determine what in reference to the past was reasonable and
just, whether as maximum, minimum or absolute, and then enable it to
obtain from the courts a peremptory order that in the future the railroad
in the
companies should follow the rates thus determined to have been
past reasonable and just.
-New Orleans & Texas Pactfc Railway v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
162 U. S. 184, affirmed and followed.

THIS case is before us on a question certified by the Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. On May 29, 1894, the Interstate Commerce Commission entered an order, of which the
following is a copy:
"At a general session of the Interstate Commerce Commission, held at its office in Washington, D. C., on the 29th day

of May,

A.D.

1894.

"Present : Hon. William R. Morrison, chairman ; lion.
Wheelock G. Veazey, Hon. Martin A. Knapp, Hon. J.udson C.
Clements and Hon. James D. Yeomans, commissioners.
"THE

FREIGHT BUREAU

OF THE CINCINNATI

CHAMBER

OF

COMMERCE

V.
THE CINCINNATI, NEW ORLEANS AND

TEXAS- PACIFIC RAILWAY

Company, Lessee of the Cincinnati Southern Railway;
The Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company; The
East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railway Company;
The Western and Atlantic Railroad Company; The Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company; The Atlanta
and West Point Railroad Company; The Central Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

road and Lanking Company of Georgia; The Gc rgia
Railroad Company; The Georgia Pacific Railway Company; The Norfolk and Western Railroad Company;
The Port Royal and Augusta Railway Company; The
Richmond and Danville Railroad Company; The Savannah, Florida and Western Railway Company; The
Seaboard and Roanoke Railroad Company; The South
Carolina Railway Company; The Western Railway of
Alabama; The Wilmington and Weldon Railroad Company; The Wilmington, Columbia and Augusta Railroad
Company; Th6 Baltimore, Chesapeake and Richmond
Steamboat Company; The Clyde Steamship Company;
The Merchants' and Miners' Transportation Company;
The Ocean Steamship Company; The Old Dominion
Steamship Company.
" THE CHICAGo FREIGHT BUREAU
V.

THE LOUISVILLE, NEW ALBANY AND CHICAGO

RAILWAY CoX-

pany; The Chicago and Alton Railroad Company; The
Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad Company; The
Cincinnati, Hamilton and Dayton Railroad Company;
The Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway Company; The Evansville and Terre Haute Railroad Company; The Illinois Central Railroad Company;
The Louisville, Evansville and St. Louis Consolidated
Railroad Company; The Peoria, Decatur and Evansville
Railway Company; The -Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago
and St. Louis Railway Company; The Terre Haute and
Indianapolis Railroad Company; The Wabash Railroad
Company; The Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas
Pacific Railway Company, Lessee of the Cincinnati
Southern Railway; The Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company; The East Tennessee, Virginia and
Georgia Railway Company; The Western and Atlantic
Railroad Company; The Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company; The Atlanta and West Point Railroad
Company; The Central Railroad and Banking Company

INTERSTATE COX. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 481
Statement of the Case.

of Georgia; The Georgia Railroad Company; The Georgia Pacific Railway Company; The Norfolk and Western
Railroad Company; The Port Royal and Augusta Railway Company; The Richmond and Danville Railroad
Company; The Savannah, Florida and Western Railway
Company; The Seaboard and Roanoke Railroad Company; The South Carolina Railway Company; The
Western Railway of Alabama; The Wilmington and
Weldon Railroad Company; The Wilmington, Columbia
and Augusta Railroad Company; The Baltimore, Chesapeake and Richmond Steamboat Company; The Clyde
Steamship Company; The Merchants' and Miners' Transportation Company; The Ocean Steamship Company;
The Old Dominion Steamship Company.
"These cases being at issue. upon complaints and answers
on file, and having been duly heard and submitted by the
parties, and full investigation of the matters and things involved herein having been had, and the commission having
on the date hereof made and filed a report and opinion containing its finding of fact and conclusions thereon, which said
report and opinion is hereby referred to and made a part of
this order, and the commission having, as appears by said
report and opinion, found and decided, among other things,
that the rates complained of and set forth in said report and
opinion as in force over roads operated by carriers defendant
herein and forming routes or connecting lines leading southerly
from Chicago or Cincinnati to Knoxville, Tenn.; Chattanooga,
Tenn. ; Rome, Ga. ; Atlanta, Ga. ; Meridian, Miss. ; Birmingham, Ala.; Anniston, Ala., and Selma, Ala., are unreasonable and unjust and in violation of the provisions of the act to
regulate commerce:

"It is ordered and adjudged that the above-named defendants and each of them, engaged or participating in the transportation of freight articles enumerated in the Southern Railway and Steamship Association classification as articles of the
first, second, third, fourth, fifth or sixth class, do from and

after the tenth day of July, 1894, wholly cease and desist and
VOL. CLXVII-81

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

thenceforth abstain from charging, demanding, collecting or
receiving any greater aggregate rate or compensation per
hundred pounds for the transportation of freight in any such
class from Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio, or from Chicago, in
the State of Illinois, to Knoxville, Tenn.; Chattanooga, Tenn.;
Rome, Ga.; Atlanta, Ga.; Meridian, Miss.; Birmingham, Ala.;
Anniston, Ala., or Selma, Ala., than is below specified in cents
per hundred pounds under said numbered classes respectively
and set opposite to said points of destination - that is to say:
On shipments of freight from Cincinnati -

To-

Class 1, Class 2, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5, Class 6,
rates per rates per rates per rates per rates per rates per
100 lbs. 100 lbs. 100 lbs. 100 lbs. 100 lbs. 100 lbs.

Cents.
Knoxville..
53
Chattanooga...
60
Rome .........
75
Atlanta........ .
6
Meridian.......
't
Birmingham...
87
Anniston ......
86
Selma .........
108

Cents.
45
54
64
73
98
74
73
92

Cents.
87
40
54
60
80
60
60
78

Cents.
27
30
44
45
62
46
45
60

Cents.
22
24
34
35
49
36
35
48

Cents.
20
22
24
27
38
28
27
36

On shipments of freight from Chicago -

To -

Class 1, Class 2, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5, Class 6,
rates per rates per rates per rates per rates per rates per
100 lbs. 100-lbs. 100 lbs. 100 lbs. 100 lbs. 100 lbs.

Knoxville .....
Chattanooga...
Rome.........
Atlanta ........
Meridian ......
Birmingham...
Anniston ......
Selma .........

Cents.
93
100
114
126
114
111
126
128

Cents.
79
88
97
107
98
95
107
112

Cents.
62
65
79
85
82
72
85
89

Cents.
44
47
61
62
60
52
62
66

Cents.
37
39
49
50
47
44
50
53

Cents.
32
34
38
39
38
34
39
38

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 483
Argument for Appellant.

"And said defendants and each of them are also hereby
notified and required to further readjust their tariffs of rates
and charges so that from and after said 10th day of July, 1894,
rates for the transportation of freight articles from Cincinnati
and Chicago to southern points other than those hereinabove
specified shall be in due and proper relation to rates put into
effect by said defendants in compliance with the provisions of
this order.
"And it is further ordered, that a notice embodying this
Order be forthwith sent to each of the defendant corporations,
together with a copy of the report and opinion of the commission herein, in conformity with the provisions of the
fifteenth section of the act to regulate commerce."
The railroad companies having failed to comply with the
order, the Interstate Commerce Commission instituted this
suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio to compel obedience thereto. The court upon
a hearing entered a decree dismissing the bill (76 Fed. Rep.
183), from which decree an appeal was taken to the Court of
Appeals, and that court, reciting the order, submits to us the
following question: "Had the Interstate Commerce Commission jurisdictional power to make the order hereinbefore
set forth - all proceedings preceding said order being due
and regular, so far as procedure is concerned? "
Mr.Harlan Cleveland for appellant. Mr.Assistant Attorney
General Whitney filed a brief for same.
Mr.Edward Baxter for appellees.
Mr. George F. Edmunds closed for appellant.
I. The testimony before the commission completely proved
the complainants' case. There was the evidence of several
witnesses extensively engaged in various kinds of business, as
well as railway gentlemen, showing beyond all fair dispute
the unreasonableness in themselves of the rates from Cincinnati and Chicago to southern points, and also the undue pref-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellant.

erence given by the established rates to eastern cities and

localities. The defendants evidently intended to lie by, as
their custom had been, but they did introduce one or two
witnesses whose testimony rather tended to support than to
rebut the complainants' evidence; and the written documents
of their agreements and proceedings furnish the key to the
whole of the concerted tyranny that was established by the
Southern Railway and Steamship Association and its allies.
I There is submitted herewith a ,memorandum of the points
of the testimony adduced before the commission and of that
adduced in court, including that in the private suit of S/inkle
et al., which is in by stipulation, which may be useful as a
reference index. A few tables and documents are also
collated. The proceedings of the commission are a part of
the bill of complaint.
II. As to the powers of the commission:
The United States may institute direct proceedings for the
enforcement of its provisions and for punishment. These are
two distinct powers. The first is to be exercised on notice
and investigation and decision, as in any judicial tribunal;
the second, in pausing criminal procedure against offenderS.
Suppose in this *matter the commission had found on its
own inquiry that section 1 had been violated by the failure
of the railway to maintain "reasonable" rates, and had instituted direct proceedings in the Circuit Court to compel
obedience to the requirements of that section, could not the
court have power to decree the observance of the prices it
should find to be reasonable? . Or could it only say that the
prices exacted must not be continued, and stop there? Is
this at all consistent with the requirements of another section of the act, that the court shall proceed in the enforcement of it as a court of equity, and in such a manner as to
do justice? Such a question furnishes, we submit, its own
answer.
III. If the foregoing be true, can it be doubted that the
commission, in exercising its duty in the enforcement of section 1, could require the railroad to do the same thing, and
if it fail to do it, apply to this court to compel obedience?

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 485
Argument for Appellant.

IV. As to the action of the commission in trying the
matter, the thirteenth section declares that any person, etc.,
"complaining of anything done or omitted to be done" may
apply; whereupon the commission shall notify the carrier
and call on him to satisfy the complaint, or answer. It then
provides that if the carrier shall make "reparation," etc., no
further proceedings shall be had. Does not this mean that
if the carrier shall have reduced his rates to a reasonable
point no further proceeding shall be had? Could it be said
that the carrier had made reparation if the extortion were
twenty cents a hundred and he only reduced five? Obviously
not! It is clear, then, that the reparation required is the
whole of that conduct which the word "reparation." principally means, and that short of doing that the proceeding
shall go on, and that the commission shall have power to
require all that the carrier is bound by law and justice to do.
The fourteenth section provides that if such reparation
shall not be voluntarily made by the carrier, the commission shall decide and make "recommendation as to what
reparation, if any, should be made." This is as clear as language can make it, that the commission is to have power to
determine what the carrier ought affirmatively to do, and not
merely the power to say what the carrier ought not to do.
The fifteenth section provides that in such a case the commission, if anything is found "to have been done or omitted
to be done to the injury or damage of any person," etc., shall
notify the carrier to "desist from such violation or to make
reparation for the injury so found to have been done, or
both." Here are two things that the commission is to require the carrier to do: First, to desist from violation; and,
second (if he has not already desisted), to make reparation.
Here again, in clear language, is authority to require not only
the stopping of the existing exaction, but the affirmative action on the part of the carrier to make his conduct conform
to the law. The first section says that the charge must be
reasonable. The commission is to require that to be done,
and of course it is impossible to decide that the carrier shall
be reasonable without saying, as an inseparable part of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellant.

a decision, what is reasonable. To stop by saying that the
carrier shall be reasonable would amount in substance only to
a moral lecture.
Then section 16 provides for an application to the court in
cases where the carrier refuses to obey the order of the commission.
The words "lawful order" mean an order which the commission has jurisdiction to make. An order may be lawful
and at the same time erroneous, so that if the commission
made an order in a matter over which they had jurisdiction,
which was merely an error in judgment, as to precisely the degree of reparation, for instance, the carrier ought to make, the
order would still be lawful. In such a case the court is to "hear
and determine the iatter" - that is, the whole subject, "as a
court of equity . . . in such manner as to do justice in the
Premises" *-thatis, complete justice in the whole premises.

Premises is not merely the particular order that the commission have made, but it is the whole subject that had been duly
brought before the commission and on due notice and hearing had been acted upon. It is that duty which rested with
the Circuit Court which is now imposed upon this court.
V. All the preceding action described is not "fixing rates"
in the sense that state commissioners of railways are authorized by their legislatures to establish general rates for all classes
and for all railways, as is contended for by the defendants.
We make no such claim. The action of the commission and
the action of this court on what is really an appeal from and
a review of the judgment is the trial and determination of a
particular case and determining for that particular case what
the conduct of the carrier shall be in respect of the particular
dispute involved in it. It is the exertion of no general power
to prejudge or to fix rates, nor is it the exertion of any power
to fix rates in general. If this distinction be observed, there
is no difficulty whatever. This is precisely in accord with
what Justice Shiras said. After stating what had happened
before the commission, and stating that in the Circuit Court evidence was introduced which had not been laid before the commission, showing that the rate to Birmingham had been forced

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 487
Argument for Appellant.

down by the coming in of a new competitive road, and that
the Circuit Court had thereupon found that the evidence was
sufficient to overcome the findings of the commission, and that
the rate complained of was not unreasonable; and after stating
that the Circuit Court of Appeals had adopted the views of the
Circuit Court in respect of the reasonableness of the rate from
Cincinnati to Atlanta, and "as both courts found the existing
rate to have been reasonable, we do not feel disposed to review
their finding on that matter of fact," he then condemned the
conduct of the carriers in lying by. He then says, "Whether
Congress intended to confer upon the Interstate Commerce
Commission the power to itself fix rates was mooted in the
courts below and is discussed in the briefs of counsel." He
says, "We do not find any provision of the act which expressly
or by necessary implication confers such power," and so forth.
He then says, "The reasonableness of the rate in a given case
depends on facts, and the function of the commission is to
consider these facts and give them their proper weight. If
the commission, instead of withholding judgment in such a
matter until an issue shall be made and the facts found, itself
fix a rate, that rate is prejudged by the commission to be
reasonable." In this proposition we entirely concur, but in
this case the identical question was raised by the petitions, an,
issue was made, evidence was taken on both sides, and the facts
found, so that the sum fixed as reasonable by the commission
was not prejudged. And he adds that, "subject to the two
leading prohibitions that their charges shall not be unjust and
unreasonable, and that they shall not unjustly discriminate, so
as to give undue preference or advantage, or subject to undue
prejudice or disadvantage persons or traffic similarly circumstanced, the act to regulate commerce leaves common carriers
as they were at common law." Here, again, it will be seen
that reasonableness and unreasonableness, justice and injustice,
preference, advantage, prejudice, disadvantage, are the very
subjects that he says are within the competence of the commission to determine. If the Supreme Court had been of
opinion that the action of the commission in its decision in
regard to the Atlanta rate was beyond its jurisdictional power,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Apppllant.

they would have so said, and affirmed the judgment on that
ground; but in distinct terms they affirm the judgment of the
Circuit Court and the Court of Appeals upon the express
ground that the commission was in error in its finding of fact.
VI. Section 3 provides against "any undue or unreasonable
preference or advantage to any

.

.

.

locality, or any

particular description of traffic," etc.
Section 3 is to be enforced by tM4e commission. How is this

possibly to be done otherwise than by commanding action by
their carriers suited to the nature of the case, so as to obliterate the whole "undue preference," etc.? And how possibly otherwise can "reparation" be made to a "locality"?
Reparation means "restoration" of the right.
VII. The Circuit Court had full power to decree what ae
commission ought to have required in any case within its
jurisdiction, and this is precisely what the Court of Appeals
did, and what the Supreme Court affirmed in the Social Circle
case. In the present case the commission ordered two things:
First, that the defendants desist from charging their then existing prices, and, second, that the defendants do not charge
more than a named price, which the commission found to be
reasonable and non-preferential. If what the commission
thus decided was right upon the whole facts of the case as
they now appear, where is the want of power in this court
to affirm their judgment; or, if the commission was wrong
in degree, why- has not this court, under the positive command of the statute to do justice in the premises, the power
to say what ought to be done? It is the duty of the courts
to endeavor, so far as the language of the act will allow, to
execute its spirit and purpose. The act is in all civil respects
a remedial act, and is therefore entitled to be liberally construed, if a liberal construction to effect its purpose be necessary. But in this case we need invoke no such principles, for,
we submit, the language of the act is clear.
VIII. Every essential and nearly every primary fact
found by the commission is really unchallenged, and, if challenged, is clearly supported by the whole tenor of the oral
and documentary evidence. Only the conclusion of unrea-

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 489
Argument for Appellant.

sonableness in price and the conclusion of undue preference
are disputed.
The fundamental and detailed circumstances of the whole
case were developed before the commission. Witnesses were
examined and documents produced on both sides. The additional evidence does not change any of the facts and circumstances appearing before the commission.
There are
discussions and speculations and opinions in abundance from
the defendants' witnesses, speaking under the strongest bias.
By their own account of the conduct of their own lines
toward each other they are in the frequent habit of exercising bad faith and doing secretly what they had solemnly
engaged they would not do. Testimony from such sources
(particularly mere opinions) is not entitled to much consideration against the great leading facts of the railway and
steamship association contract and the contrivances attending
them and their conduct appearing in the case.
The evidence of the complainants' witnesses before the
commission shows distinctly the unreasonableness of the
prices, and very distinctly the undue preference for eastern
territory accomplished by the association contract and by
the territorial lines which the carriers will not allow to be
crossed.
The unreasonableness of the prices was attempted to be
defended by the defendants' witnesses on the ground that
the lines north of the Ohio fix their own rates and the lines
south of the Ohio fix theirs, and that the shippers had no
right to look at the distances, etc., traversed by the lines on
both sides of the Ohio as one system. This 'contention is
exploded by the decision in the Social Circle case, where
it was held that if the carriers went into the business of
through traffic at all, the reasonableness and so forth of the
whole rate from the point of shipment to the point of destination was to be considered together.
In spite of the assertions of some of the defendants' witnesses that distance has nothing to do with the fixing of
prices for carriage, it appears from their own testimony, as
well as all the other evidence, that in every transaction

OCTOBER TERI,

1896.

Argument for .Appellant.

between themselves and in every aspect of carriage- their
results, divisions of receipts, and their management are based
almost, if not quite, entirely upon that very thing. And in
the internal considerations of every company we find that
they make up their conclusions of gain or loss from statistics
and accounts kept in respect of distance and mileage, and
so forth. And it is obvious enough that the truth of the
cost and profit of their operations can be ascertained only
in that way, and out of that what the carrier may consider
to be a reasonable price (from his point of view) for carriage
is determined. We refer, as a matter of public knowledge,
for illustration of this, to the printed annual reports of the
Lake Shore system; and the same thing will be found in all,
or nearly all, of the full and detailed printed reports of great
numbers of railways of the country.
Applying these principles and practices to the case in hand,
we will take from the undisputed record a single illustration
to show the enormous disparity between the eastern and
western traffic, based on the railway's own established constructive mileage:
New York to Knoxville: Constructive miles. seven hundred
and sixty-three; rate, one hundred cents per one hundred
pounds; equals thirteen one-hundredths of a cent per mile.
Chicago to Knoxville: Five hundred and sixty miles; rate,
one hundred and sixteen cents per one hundred pounds; equals
twenty one-hundredths of a cent per mile.
Cincinnati to Knoxville: Two hundred and ninety miles;
rate, seventy-six cents per one hundred pounds; equals twenty
one-hundredths of a cent per mile.
On the INew York rate the rate from Chicago. to Knoxville
would be seventy-three and eight-tenths cents per one hundred
pounds instead of one hundred and sixteen cents per one hundred pounds.
All the details of rates prove in general the same great
disparity.
Again, the eastern distance is only computed from New
York, so that the whole great territory to the north and east
of New York gets the same rate that New York itself does.

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 491
Argument for Appellant.

This operates in respect of a great many articles to give the
territory one hundred or more miles further from the points
of delivery that much greater advantage over the territory of
which Chicago and Cincinnati are the typical points.
No witness for the defendants even has said that they
cannot carry at a great profit at the prices fixed by the
commission.
IX. As to the undue preference, the principal and apparently only answer that the defendants' witnesses make is that
if the western rates were reduced, the eastern rates would be
reduced also. If this should be so, it furnishes no reason for
this court hesitating to .do justice. The consequences must
take care of themselves. It is monstrous to maintain that, if
the carriers are compelled to do right, they will, as between
themselves, proceed (in the elegant language of the defendants' counsel) "to cut each others' throats." If they do, the
eastern and western territory will stand on an equality, and
the rates, it may be presumed, will not then be grossly unreasonable as against the shipper.
It is earnestly contended by the defendants that such a reduction as is required by the commission will make a great
diminution of revenue. This may or may not be so, but the
stopping of every extortion necessarily diminishes the profits
of the extortioner. It is submitted that this is no reason for
the commission or this court failing to require conduct on the
part of the carriers that is right in itself.
X. The real key and fortress of this whole injustice on the
part of the carriers is found in the treaty between the defendant lines known as the "Southern Railway and Steamship
Traffic Association Contract." An agreement to maintain
certain rates, so long as they shall be reasonable and so long
as they shall not make undue discrimination between persons
and localities, is perfectly lawful for carriers to make; but
an agreement that carriers shall divide the country or any
part of it into sections and make prohibitory rates, as they
themselves say they have done, on business crossing the line,
establishes an absolute monopoly, and, it is submitted, is as
clearly a violation of the interstate commerce law and of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellant.

trust law as it is of the common law. This was the very
purpose as well as the effect of the contract. The resolutions
adopted at the meetings and by the various committees all
absolutely demonstrate this purpose.
It is said by the defendants that everything must be right
because manufacturers in the west have increased. This does
not follow at all. Manufacturers in the west have increased
in spite of the injustice of these transactions between the
carriers, and these manufacturers have been compelled to find
their chief market in the great and growing northwest, and
have been kept out of the south in a very large degree in
consequence of this monopolistic tyranny.
We refer on these subjects in general to the testimony of
the complainants' witnesses, taken before the commission,
and to the testimony of the defendants' witnesses: Eger,
pages 197-199; Peck, page 405; Davant, page 208; Culp,
page 267; Smith, page 784; and see especially complainants' witnesses before the commission: Mann, pages 16, 17;
Reed, pages 16-18.
XI. The alleged water competition set up to explain the
obvious inequality of eastern and western rates is completely
disposed of by the value and effect of the water competition
having been by the railway and water carriers themselves
ascertained and defined by treating three miles of water as
equal to one mile of rail transportation, and the contention
that outside of that there are tramp and sailing vessels is
also disposed of, though these can have no real influence
-upon the subject, by the testimony of one or more of the
defendants' witnesses stating that they do not allow these
vessels to compete for the kind of traffic that can have
any play in the consideration of the present questions; and it
is obvious enough that the difficulties attending shipments
and unlading by tramp steamers to connect with the lines
of these railways would make it impossible to accomplish
anything; and as to sailing vessels, nothing but the coarsest and least valuable commodities, in respect of which
time and safety play a very small part, can be carried at

all.

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 493
Opinion of the Court.

M[R. JUSTIcE

BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
A similar question was before us at the last term in Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific Railway v. Interstate

Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184, and in the opinion, on
pages 196 and 197, we said:
"Whether Congress intended to confer upon the Interstate
Commerce Commission the power to itself fix rates, was
mooted in the courts below, and is discussed in the briefs of
counsel.

"We do not find any provision of the act that expressly, or
by necessary implication, confers such a power.
"It is argued on behalf of the commission that the power
to pass upon the reasonableness of existing rates implies a
right to prescribe rates. This is not necessarily so. The
reasonableness of the rate, in a given case, depends on the
facts, and the function of the commission is to consider these
facts and give them their proper weight. If the commission,
instead of withholding judgment in such a matter until an
issue shall be made and the facts found, itself fixes a rate,
that rate is prejudged by the commission to be reasonable.
"We prefer to adopt the view expressed by the late Justice
Jackson, when Circuit Judge, in the case of the Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co.,
43 Fed. Rep. 37, and whose judgment was affirmed by this
court, 145 U. S. 263:
"' Subject to the two leading prohibitions that their charges
shall not be unjust or unreasonable, and that they shall not
unjustly discriminate, so as to give undue preference or disadvantage to persons or traffic similarly circumstanced, the act
to regulate commerce leaves common carriers as they were at
the common law, free to make special contracts looking to the

increase of their business, to classify their traffic, to adjust and
apportion their rates so as to meet the necessities of commerce,
and generally to manage their important interests upon the
same principles which are regarded as sound, and adopted in
other trades and pursuits.'"

OCTOBER TERN, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The views thus expressed have been vigorously and earnestly
,challenged in this and in other cases argued at the present
term. In view of its importance, and the full arguments that
have been presented, we have deemed it our duty to reexamine
the question in its entirety, and to determine what powers
Congress has given to this commission in respect to the matter
,of rates. The importance of the question cannot be overestimated. Billions of dollars are invested in railroad properties.
Millions of passengers, as well as millions of tons of freight,
are moved each year by the railroad companies, and this
,transportation is carried on by a multitude of corporations
working in different parts of the country and subjected to
varying and diverse conditions.
* Before the passage of the act it was generally believed that
there were great abuses in railroad management and railroad
transportation, and the grave question which Congress had to
consider was how those abuses should be corrected and what
,control should be taken of the business of such corporations.
The present inquiry is limited to-the question as to what it
determined should be done with reference to the matter of
rates. There were three obvious and dissimilar courses open
for consideration. Cdngress might itself prescribe the rates;
or it might commit to some subordinate tribunal this duty;
or it might leave with the companies the right to fix rates,
subject to regulations and restrictions, as well as to that rule
which is as old as the existence of common carriers, to wit,
that rates must be reasonable. There is nothing in the act
fixing rates. Congress did not attempt to exercise that-power,
and if we examine the legislative and public history of
the day it is apparent that there was no serious thought of
doing so.
The question debated is whether it vested in theommission
the power and the duty to fix rates; and the fact that this is
a debatable questiob, and has been most, strenuously and earnestly debated, is very persuasive that it did not. The grant of
such a power is never to be implied. The power itself is so
vast and comprehensive, so largely affecting the rights of carrier and shipper, as well as indirectly all commercial trans-

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 495
Opinion of the Court.

actions, the language by which the power is given had been
so often used and was so famijiar to the legislative mind and
is capable of such definite and exact statement, that no just
rule of construction would tolerate a grant of such power
by mere implication. Administrative control over railroads
through boards or commissions was no new thing. It had
been resorted to in England and in many of the States of this
Union. In England, while control had been given in respect
to discrimination and undue preferences, no power had been
given to prescribe a tariff of rates. In this country the practice had been varying. It will be interesting to notice the
provisions in the legislation of different States. We quote the
exact languagre, following some of the quotations with citations
of cases in which the statute has been construed:
ALABAMA, Code 1886, Title 12, c. 2, § 1130: "Exercise a
watchful and careful supervision over all tariffs and their
operations, and revise the same, from time to time, as justice
to the public and the railroads may require, and increase or
reduce any of the rates, as experience and business operations
may show to be just."
CALIFORNIA. In the constitution, going into effect January 1,
1880, article 12; sec. 22: "Said commissioners shall have the
power, and it shall be their duty, to establish rates of charges
for the transportation of passengers and freight by railroad
or other transportation companies, and publish the same from
time to time, with such changes as they may make."
FLORIDA, Session Laws 1887, c. 3746, § 5: "Make and fix
reasonable and just rates of freights and passenger tariffs, to
be observed by all railroad companies doing business in this
State, on the railroads thereof." Railroad Commissioners v.
Pensacola& Atlantic Railroad,24 Florida, 417.
GEORGIA, Code 1882, c. 7, § 719: "Make reasonable and just
rates of freight and passenger tariffs, to be observed by all
railroad companies doing business in this State on the railroads
thereof." Georgia Railroad v. Smith, 70 Georgia, 694.
ILLINOIS, Statutes 1878 (Underwood's Edition), c. 114, § 93:
"To make, for each of the railroad corporations doing business
in this State, as soon as practicable, a schedule of reasonable

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

maximum rates of charges for the transportation of passengers and freights on cars on each of said railroads."
,IowA, Laws 1888, p. 42: "IMake for each of the railroad

-corporations, doing business in this State, as soon as practicable, a schedule of reasonable maximum rates of charges for
the transportation of freight and cars on each of said railroads." Burlington &ce. Railway v. Dey, 82 Iowa, 312.
MINNESOTA, Laws 1887, c. 10, § 8: "In case the commission
shall at any time find that any part of the tariffs of rates,
fares, charges or classifications so filed and published as hereinbefore provided, are in any respect unequal or unreasonable,
it shall have the power, and is hereby authorized and directed
to compel any common carrier to change the same and adopt
such rate, fare, charge or classification as said commission shall
declare to be equal and reasonable." State v. Chicago, Mil
waukee &c.Railway, 40 Minnesota, 267.
MississiprP, Laws 1884, c. 23, § 6: "Shall so revise such
tariffs as to allow a fair and just return on the value of such
railroad, its appurtenances and equipments,

.

.

and to

increase or reduce any of said rates according as experience
and business operations may show to be just."
NEw HAM-SHIRE, taws 1883, c. 101, § 4: "Fix tables of
maximum charges for the transportation of passengers and
freight upon the several railroads operating within this State,
and shall change the same from time to time, as in the judgment of said board the public good may require; and said
rates shall be binding upon the respective railroads." Merrill v. Boston & -LowellRailroad,63 N. H. 259.
NORTH DAKOTA, Laws 1890, p. 354 : "In case the commissioners shall at any time find that any part of the tariffs of
rates, fares,, charges or lassifications, so filed and published,
as herein provided, are in any respect unequal or unreasonable, they shall have the power and are hereby authorized and
directed to compel any common carrier to change the same
and adopt such rate, charge or classification as said commissioners shall declare to be equitable and reasonable."
SOUTH CAROLINA, Laws 1888, p. 65: "Authorized and required to make for each of the railroad corporations doing

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 497
Opinion of the Court.

business in this State, as soon as practicable, a schedule of
reasonable and just rates of charges for the transportation of
freights and cars on each of said railroads."
On the other hand inKA-sAs, Laws 1883, c. 124, section 11, reads:
"No railroad company shall charge, demand or receive from
any person, company or corporation, an unreasonable price for
the transportation of persons or property, or for the hauling or
storing of freight, or for the use of its cars, or for any privilege
or service afforded by it in the transaction of its business as a
railroad company. And upon complaint in'writing, made to
the board of 'railroad commissioners, that an unreasonable price
has been charged, such board shall investigate said complaint,
and if sustained shall make a certificate under their seal, setting
forth what is a reasonable charge for the service rendered, which
shall be primafacie evidence of the matters therein stated."
Section 18 authorized an inquiry upon the application of
parties named in reference to freight tariffs and an adjudication upon such inquiry as to the reasonable charge for such
freights. Section 14 required a notice of the determination to
Pe given to the railroad company, and a communication of a
failure to comply with such determination in a report to the
governor; and section 19 reads:
"Any railroad company which shall violate any of the provisions of this act shall forfeit for every such offence, to the
person, company or corporation aggrieved thereby, three
times the actual damages sustained by the said party aggrieved, together with the costs of suit, and a reasonable
attorney's fee, to be fixed by the court; wud if an appeal be
taken from the judgment, or any part thereof, it shall be the
duty of the appellate court to include in the judgment an
additional reasonable attorney's fee for services in appellate
court or courts."
The effect of these provisions was to make the determination of the commission prima facie evidence of what were
reasonable rates, and to subject the railroad company failing
to respect such determination or to prove error therein to the
large penalties prescribed in section 19.
VOL. cLxvii-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

KENTUCKY.

The act of April 6, 1882, c. 90, § 1 (General

Stat. p. 1021), provided that "if any railroad corporation
shall wilfully charge, collect or feceive more than a just and
reasonable rate of toll or compensation for the transportation
of passengers or freight in this State

.

.

.

it shall be

guilty of extortion," etc. Further sections created a commission, and by section 19 the commissioners were authorized to
hear and determine complaints under the first and second
sections of this act, and upon such complaint and hearing file
their award with the clerk of the Circuit Court, which might
be traversed by any party dissatisfied, and the controversy
thereafter submitted to the court for consideration and judgment.
Pub. Stat. 1882, c. 112, § 14: "The
MASSACutUSETTS.
board shall have the general supervision of all the railroads
and railways, and shall examine the. same." Section 15: If it
finds that any corporation has violated the provisions of the
act, or any law of the Commonwealth, it shall give notice
thereof in writing, and if the violation shall continue after
such notice shall present the facts to the attorney general,
who shall take such proceedings thereon as he may deem expedient. By section 193 special authority is given to the
board to revise the tariffs and fix rates for the transportation of milk. See Littlefteld v. Fitchburg Railroad, 158
Mass. 1.
NEw YORK. Vol. 6, Rev. Stat. c. 39, contains the railroad
law of the State. By section 157, the board of railroad com
missioners "shall have general supervision of all railroads."
By section 161, if in the judgment of the board it appears
necessary that "additional terminal facilities shall be afforded,
or, that any change of rates of fare for transporting freights
or passengers or in the mode of operating the road or conducting its business, is reasonable and expedient in order to
prombte the security, convenience and accommodation of the
public, the board shall give notice and information in writing
to the corporation of the improvements and changes which
they deem proper"; and by section 162 "the Supreme Court
at special term shall have power in its discretion in all cases of

INTERISTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 499
Opinion of the: Court.

decision and recommendations by the board which are just
and reasonable to compel compliance therewith by mandamus, subject to appeal," etc.
This last section was enacted in 1892 (Laws 1892, c. 676),
and prior thereto, in People v. Lake Erie & We8tern Railroad, 104 N. Y. 58, it was held that the judgment of the
commissioners was not binding on the railroad company in
respect to certain terminal facilities ordered, and could not -be
enforced by mandamus.
Laws 1886, No. 23, § .7, provided that if any
VERMONT.
railroad company "unjustly discriminates in its charges for
transporting passengers or freight, or usurps any authority
not granted by its charter, or wilfully refuses to comply with
any reasonable recommendations of said board of commissioners, or enters into atiy combination or conspiracy with any
other person, persons or corporation, whereby the rates of
charge for transportation of freight or passengers, or the cost
of commodities is unduly increased, said commissioners shall
give notice thereof in writing to such corporation, or person,
and if the act complained of is continued after such notice
the board shall report the same to the then next session of the
general assembly, and if in their judgment such action is irregular, may at any time make application to the Supreme or
county court for any remedy warranted by law."
The legislation of other States is referred to in the Fourth
Annual Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission, Appendix E, pages 243 and following. It is true that some of
these statutes were passed after the interstate commerce act,
but most were before, and they all show what phraseology
has been deemed necessary whenever the intent has been to
give to the commissioners the legislative power of fixing
rates.
It is one thing to inquire whether the rates which have
been charged and collected are reasonable -that is a judicial
act; but an entirely different thing to prescribe rates which
shall be charged in the future - that is a legislative act.
Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Railway v. Minnesota., 134 U. S.
418, 458; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

362, 397; St. Louis & San Francisco Railway v. Gill, 156
U. S. 649, 663; Cincinnati, New Orleans &c. Railway v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184, 196; Texas
& Pacific Railway v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162
U. S. 197, 216; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 144;Peik v.
Chicago & Northwestern Railway, 94 U. S. 164, 178; Exepress
cases, 117 U. S. 1, 29.
It will be perceived that in this case the Interstate Commerce Commission assumed the right to prescribe rates which
should control in the future, and their application to the
court was for a mandamus to compel the companies to comply with their decision; that is, to abide by their legislative
determination as to the maximum rates to be observed in
the future. Now, nowhere in the interstate commerce act
do We find words similar to those in the statutes referred to,
giving to the commission power to "increase or reduce any
of the rates"; "to establish rates of charges"; "to make
and fix reasonable and just rates of freight and passenger
tariffs"; "to make a schedule of reasonable maximum rates
of charges"; "to fix tables of maximum charges"; to compel the carrier "to adopt such rate, charge or classification as,
said commissioners shall declare to be equitable and reasonable." The power, therefore, is not expressly given. Whence
then is it deduced? In the first section it is provided that
"all charges . . . shall be reasonable and just; and every
unjust and unreasonable charge for such service is prohibited
and declared to be unlawful." Then follow sections prohibiting discrimination, undue preferences, higher charges for
a short than for a long haul, and pooling, and also making
provision for the preparation by the companies of schedules
of rates, and requiring their publication. Section 11 creates
the Interstate Commerce Commission. Section 12, as amended
March 2, 1889, (25 Stat. 858,) gives it authority to inquire into
the management of the business, of all common carriers, to
demand full and complete information from them, and adds,
"and the commission is hereby authorized to execute and
enforce the provisions of this act." And the argument is
that in enforcing and executing the provisions of the act it

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 501
Opinion of the Court.

is to execute and enforce the law as stated in the first sec-

tion, which is that all charges shall be reasonable and just,
and that every unjust and unreasonable charge is prohibited;
that it cannot enforce this mandate of the law without a
determination of what ate reasonable and just charges; and
as no other tribunal is created for such determination, therefore it must be implied that it is authorized to make the
determination, and, having made it, apply to the courts for
a mandamus to compel the enforcement of such determination. In other words, that though Congress has not in terms
given the commission the power to determine what are just
and reasonable rates for the future, yet as no other tribunal
has been provided, it must have intended that the commission
should exercise the power. We do not think this argument
can be sustained. If there were nothing else in the act than
the first section commanding reasonable rates, and the twelfth
empowering the commission to execute and enforce the provisions of the act, we should be of the opinion that Congress
did not intend to give to the commission the power to prescribe any tariff and determine what for the future should be
reasonable and just rates. The power given is the power to
execute and enforce, not to legislate. The power given is
partly judicial, partly executive and administrative, but not
legislative. Pertinent in this respect are these observations
of counsel for the appellees:
"Article II, see. 3, of the Constitution of the United States,
ordains that the President 'shall take care that the laws be
faithfully executed.' The act to regulate commerce is one of
those laws. But it will not be argued that the President, by
implication, possesses the power to make rates for carriers
.
engaged in interstate commerce.
"The first section simply enacted the common law requirement that all charges shall be reasonable and just. For more
than a hundred years it has been the affirmative duty of the
courts 'to execute and enforce' the common law requirement
that 'all charges shall be reasonable and just'; and yet it
has never been claimed that the courts, by implication, possessed the power to make rates for carriers."

OCTOBER. TERM, 1896
Opinion of the Coart.

But the power of fixing rates under the interstate commerce
act is not to be determined by any mere considerations of
emission or implication. The act contemplates the fixing of
rates and recognizes the authority in which the power exists.
Section 6 provides, among other things, "that every dommon
carrier subject to the provisions of this act shall print and keep
open to public inspection schedules showing the rates and
fares and charges for the transportation of passengers and
property which any such common carrier has established
and which are in force at the time upon its route.
Such schedule shall be plainly printed in large type, and
copies for the use of the public shall be posted in two public and conspicuous places, in every depot, station or office
of such carrier where passengers or freight, respectively, are
received for transportation, in such form that they shall
be accessible to the public and can be conveniently inspected."
"No advance shall be made in the. rates, fares and charges
which have been established and published as aforesaid by
any common carrier in compliance with the requirements of
this section, except after ten days' public notice, which shall
plainly state the changes proposed to be made in the schedule
then in force, and the time when the increased rates, fares or
charges will go into effect; and the proposed changes shall
be shown by printing new schedules, or shall be plainly indicated upon the schedules in force at the time and kept open
to public inspection. Reductions in such published rates,
fares or charges shall only be made after three days' previous
public notice, to be given in the same manner that notice of
an advance in rates must be given.
"And when any such common carrier shall have established
and published its rates, fares and charges in compliance with
the provisions of this section, it shall be unlawful for such
common carrier to charge, demand, collect or receive from
any person or persons a greater or less compensation for the
transportation of passengers or property, or for any services in
connection therewith, than is specified in such published schedule of rates, fares and charges ap may at the time be in force.

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 503
Opinion of the Court.

"Every common carrier subject to the provisions of this
act shall file with the commission hereinafter provided for,
copies of its schedules of rates, fares and charges which have
been established and published in compliance with the requirements of this section, and shall promptly notify said commission of all changes made in the same. Every such common
carrier shall also file with said commission copies of all contracts, agreements or arrangements with other common carriers
in relation to any traffic affected by the provisions of this act
to which it may be a party. And in cases where passengers
and freight pass over continuous lines or routes operated by
more than one common carrier, and the several common carriers operating such lines or routes establish joint tariffs of
rates or fares or charges for such continuous lines or routes,
copies of such joint tariffs shall also, in like manner, be filed
with said commission. Such joint rates, fares and charges on
such continuous lines so filed as aforesaid shall be made public
by such common carriers when directed by said commission,
in so far as may, in the judgment of the commission, be
deemed practicable; and said commission shall from time to
time prescribe the measure of publicity which shall be given
to such rates, fares and charges, or to such part of them as it
may deem it practicable for such common carriers to publish,
and the places in which they shall be published.
" No advance shall be made in joint raes, fares and charges,
shown upon joint tariffs, except after len days' notice to the
commission, which shall plainly state the changes proposed
to be made in the schedule then in force, and the time when
the increased rates, fares or charges will go into effect. No
reduction shall be made in joint rates, fares and charges,
except after three days' notice, to be given to the commission
as is above provided in the case of an advance of joint rates.
The commission may make public such proposed advances, or
such reductions, in such manner as may, in its judgment, be
deemed practicable, and may prescribe from time to time the
measure of publicity which common carriers shall give to advances or reductions in joint tariffs.
"It shall be unlawful for any common carrier, party to any

OCTOBER- TERM, 1896,
Opinion of the Court.

joint tariff, to charge, demand, collect or receive from any
person or persons a greater or less compensation for the transportation of persons or property, or for any services in connection therewith, between any points as to which a joint rate,
fare or charge is named thereon than is specified in the schedule filed with the commission in force at the time.
"The commission may determine and prescribe the form
in which the schedules required by this section to be kept
open to public inspection shall be prepared and arranged, and
may change the form from time to time as shall be found
expedient."
Finally, the section provides that if any common carrier
fails or neglects or refuses to file or publish its schedules as
provided in the section, itmay be subject to a writ of mandamus issued in the name of the people of the United States at
the relation of the commission. Now, but for this act it
would be unquestioned that the carrier had the right to prescribe its tariff of rates and charges, subject to the. limitation
that such rates and charges should be reasonable. This section 6 recognizes that right, and provides for its continuance.
It speaks of schedules showing rates and fares and charges
which the common carrier "has established and which are in
force." It does not say that the schedules thus prepared, and
which are to be submitted to the commission, are subject, in
any way, to the latter's approval. Filing with the commission
and publication by posting in the various stations are all that
is required, and are the only limitations placed on the carrier
in respect to the fixing of its tariff. Not only is it thus plainly
stated that the rates are those which the carrier shall establish, but the prohibitions upon change are limited in the case
of an advance by ten days' public notice, and on reduction by
three days. INothing is said about the concurrence or approval of the commission, but they are to be made at the will
of the carrier. Not only are there these. provisions in reference to the tariff upon its own line; but further when two
carriers shall unite in a joint tariff (and such union is nowhere
made obligatory, but is simply permissive), the requirement is
only that such joint tariff shall be filed with the commission,

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 505
Opinion of the Court.

and nothing but the kind and extent of publication thereof is
left to the discretion of the commission.
It will be perceived that the section contemplates a change
in rates either by increase or reduction, and provides the conditions therefor; but of what significance is the grant of this privilege to the carrier if the future rate has been prescribed by
an order of the commission, and compliance with that order
enforced by a judgment of the court in mandamus? The very
idea of an order prescribing rates for the future, and a judgment of the court directing compliance with that order, is one
of permanence. Could anything be more absurd than to ask
a judgment of the court in mandamus proceedings that the
defendant comply with a certain order unless it elects not to
do so? The fact that the carrier is given the power to establish in the first instance, and the right to change, and the
conditions of such change specified, is irresistible evidence
that this action on the part of the carrier is not subordinate to
and dependent upon the judgment of the commission.
We have, therefore, these considerations presented: First.
The power to prescribe a tariff of rates for carriage by a common carrier is a legislative and not an administrative or judicial function, and, having respect to the large amount of
property invested in railroads, the various companies engaged
therein, the thousands of miles of road, and the millions of
tons of freight carried, the varying and diverse conditions
attaching to such carriage, is a power of supreme delicacy and
importance. Second. That Congress has transferred such a
power to any administrative body is not to be presumed or
implied from. any doubtful and uncertain language. The
words and phrases efficacious to make such a delegation of
power are well understood and have been frequently used, and
if Congress had intended to grant such a power to the Interstate Commerce Commission it cannot be doubted that it
would have used language open to no misconstruction, but
clear and direct. Third. Incorporating into a statute the
common law obligation r'esting upon the carrier to make all
its charges reasonable and just, and directing the commission
to execute and enforce the provisions of the act, does not by

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

implication carry to the commission or invest it with the power
to exercise the legislative function of prescribing rates which
shall control in the future. Fourth. Beyond the inference
which irresistibly follows from the omission to grant in express
terms to the commission this power of fixing rates, is the clear
language of section 6, recognizing the right of the carrier to
establish rates, to increase or-reduce them, and prescribing the
conditions upon which such increase or reduction may be
made, and requiring, as the only conditions of its action, first,
publication, and, second, the filing of the tariff with the commission. The grant to the commission of the power to prescribe the form of the schedules, and to direct the place and
manner of publication of joint rates, thus specifying the scope
and limit of its functions in this respect, strengthens the conclusion that the power to prescribe rates or fix any tariff for
the future is not among the powers granted to the commission.
These considerations convince us that under the interstate
commerce act the commission has no power to prescribe the
tariff of rates which shall control in the future, and, therefore, cannot invoke a judgment in mandamus from the courts
to enforce any such tariff by it prescribed.
But has the commission no functions to perform in respect
to the matter of rates; no power to 'make any inquiry in
respect thereto? Unquestionably it has, and most important
duties in respect to this matter. It is charged with the
general duty of inquiring as to the management of the
business of railroad companies, and to keep itself informed
as to the manner in which the same is conducted, and has
the right to compel complete and full information as to the
manner in which such carriers are transacting their business.
And with this knowledge it is charged with the duty of seeing that there is no violation of the long and short haul
clause; that there is no discrimination between individual
shippers, and that niothing is done by rebate or any other
device to give preference to one as against another; that no
undue preferences are given to one place or places or individual or class of individuals, but that in all things that equality
of right, which is the great purpose of the interstate com-

507

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

merce act, shall be secured to all shippers. It must also see
that that publicity, which is required by section 6, is observed
by the railroad companies. Holding the railroad companies
to strict compliance with all these statutory provisions and
enforcing obedience to all these provisions tends, as observed
by Commissioner Cooley in In re Chicago, St. Paul & K ansas

City Railway, 2 Int. Com. Com. Rep. 231, 261, to both reasonableness and equality of rate as contemplated by the interstate
commerce act.
We have not overlooked the statute of Nebraska, nor the
decision of the Supreme Court of that State in respect thereto.
This statute was approved March 31, 1887, a few weeks after
the passage of the interstate commerce act (Laws Nebraska,
1887, p. 540), and was obviously largely patterned upon
that act. The general obligations incorporated into that
act in respect to reasonableness of rates, prohibitions of discrimination, undue preferences, etc., are all in the Nebraska
statute. A commission, called "a board of transportation,"
is also provided for (section 11), and is charged with the
general duty of enforcing the act and supervising the railroad companies in the State. Section 17, which is more full
and specific than any to be found in the interstate commerce
act, provides that "said board shall have the general supervision of all railroads operated by steam in the State, and
shall inquire into any neglect of duty or violation of any of
the laws of this State by railroad corporations.

.

.

.

It

shall carefully investigate any complaint made in writing,
or
...
and under oath, concerning any lack of facilities,
against any unjust discrimination against either any person,
firm, or corporation or locality, either in rates, facilities furnished or otherwise; and whenever, in the judgment of said
board

.

.

.

any change in the mode of conducting its

business or operating its road is reasonable and expedient in
order to promote the security and accommodation of the
public, or in order to prevent unjust discriminations against
either persons or places; it shall make a finding of the facts,
and an order requiring said railroad corporation to make such
repairs, improvements," etc.

OCTOBER TERM. 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In State v. Fremont, Elkhorn e. Railroad,22 Nebraska,
313, it appeared that the board of transportation had found
that certain rates enforced upon the road of the defendant
company were excessive, and that certain other rates less
than those in force were reasonable and just. On application
to the Supreme Court it was held that the State was entitled
to a mandamus compelling obedience to such determination,
the court observing, p. 329: " In the case under consideration
the board found that the rates and charges of the respondent
were excessive; in other words, that there was unjust discrimination against that part of the State, and, having so
found, the board is clothed with ample power to require such
railway company to reduce its rates and charges. The power
of the board, therefore, to establish and regulate rates and
charges upon railways within the State of Nebraska is full,
ample and complete."
Without criticising in the least the logic of this decision, it
is enoughto say that it is based upon a section which gives
wider and more comprehensive power to the supervising board
than is given in the interstate commerce act to the commission, and does not justify the inference that the latter has the
same power in respect to prescribing rates that by such decision was declared to belong to the Nebraska board of transportation.
Some reliance Was placed in the argument on this sentence,
found in the opinion of this court in Cincinnati,New Orleans
&ae.Railway v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S.
184; 196, "if the commission, instead of withholding judgment
in such a matter until an issue shall be made and the facts
found, itself fixes a rate, that rate is prejudged by the commission to be reasonable." And it is thought that this court
meant thereby that while the commission was not in the first
instance authorized to fix a rate, yet that it could, whenever
complaint of an existing rate was made, give notice and direct
a hearing, and upon such hearing determine whether the rate
established was reasonable or unreasonable, and also what
would be a reasonable rate if the one prescribed was found not
to be, and that such order could be made the basis of a judg-

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO. 509
Opinion of the Court.

ment in mandamus requiring the carrier thereafter to conform
to such new rate. And the argument is now made, and made
with force, that while the commission may not have the legislative power of establishing rates, it has the judicial power of
determining that a rate already established is unreasonable,
and with it the power of determining what should be a reasonable rate, and of enforcing its judgment in this respect by proceedings in mandamus.
The vice of this argument is that it is building up indirectly
and by implication a power which is not in terms granted. It
is not to be supposed that Congress would ever authorize an
administrative body to establish rates without inquiry and examination; to evolve, as it were, out of its own consciousness,
the satisfactory solution of the difficult problem of just and
reasonable ates for all the various roads in the country.
And if it had intended to grant the power to establish rates,
it would have said so in unmistakable terms. In this connection it must be borne in mind that the commission is not
limited in its inquiry and action to cases in which a formal
complaint has been made, but, under section 13, "may institute
any inquiry on its own motion in the same manner and to the
same effect as though complaint had been made." By section
14 whenever an investigation is made by the commission, it
becomes.its duty to make a report in writing, which shall include a finding of the facts upon which its conclusions are
based, together with a recommendation as to what reparation,
if any, ought to be made to any party or parties who may be
fo d to have been injured. And by sections 15 and 16, if it
appears to the satisfaction of the commission that anything has
been done or omitted to be done, in violation of the provisions
of .the act, or of any law cognizable by the commission, it is
made its duty to cause a copy of its report to be delivered to the
carrier, with notice to desist, and failing that to apply to the
courts for an order compelling obedience. There is nothing in
the act requiring the commission to proceed singly against each
railroad company for each supposed or alleged violation of the
act. In this very case the order of the commission was
directed against a score or more of companies and determined

OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the maximum rates on half a dozen classes of freight from
Cincinnati and Chicago respectively to several named southern points and the territory contiguous thereto, so that if the
power exists, as is claimed, there would be no escape from
the conclusion that it would be within the discretion of the
commission of its own motion to suggest that the interstate
rates on all the roads in the country were unjust and unreasonable, notify the several roads of such opinion, direct a hearing,
and upon such hearing make one general order, reaching to
every road and covering every rate. It will never do to make
a provision prescribing the mode and manner applicable to all
investigations and all actions equivalent to a grant of power
in reference to some specific matter not otherwise conferred.
Again, it is said that this court, in interstate Commerce
Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 145 U. S. 263,
276, declared that "the principal objects of the interstate
commerce act were to secure just and reasonable charges for
transportation; to prohibit," etc.; but this by no means
carries with it any suggestion that the way by which unjust
and unreasonable rates were to be prevented was by intrusting to
the commission the power to prescribe what should be charged.
Still again, it is urged that the commission has decided
that it possesses this power and has acted upon such decision,
and an appeal is made to the rule of cotemporaneDus construction. But it would be strange if an administrative body
could by any mere process of construction create for itself a
power which Congress had not given to it. And, indeed, an
examination of the decisions of the commission discloses this
curious fact. In the early case of Thatcher v. Delaware &
Hudson Canal Company, 1 Int. Com. Com. Rep. 152, 156, a
case heard and decided in July of the year in which the
commission was created, the commission declined, for lack of
evidence to fix certain rates, saying: "It is therefore impossible to fix them in this case, even if the commission had
power to make rates generally, which it has not. Its power in
respect to rates is to determine whether those which the roads
impose are for any reason in conflict with the statute."
Again, it will be perceived that nowhere in the act is there

INTERSTATE COM. COMMISSION v. RAILWAY CO.

511

Opinion of the Court.

any suggestion of a maximum or minimum rate. The first
section declares that the rates shall be reasonable and just,
and prohibits every unreasonable and unjust charge. Now
the rate may be unreasonable because it is too low as well as
because it is too high. In the former case it is unreasonable
and unjust to the stockholder, and in the latter to the shipper.
It was declared by this court in Covington & Lexington
Turnpike Road Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S.578, 597, that in
determining the question of reasonableness "its duty is to
take into consideration the interests both of the public and of
the owner of the property" ; but in the matter of the Chicago,
St. Paul & Kansas City Railway, supra, the commission
held that it had no power to order rates to be increased upon
the ground that they were so low that persistence in them
would be ruinous. The opinion in that case, prepared by
Commissioner Cooley, and with his usual ability,- while seeking
to prove that under the provisions of the statute the commission has no power to prescribe a minimum or to establish an
absolute rate but only to fix a maximum rate, goes on further
to show how the operation of other provisions of the act tend
to secure just and reasonable rates. Were it not for its length,
we should be glad to quote all that he says on the subject.
We think that nearly all of the argument which he makes to
show that the commission has no power to fix a minimum or
establish an absolute rate, goes also to show that it has no
power to prescribe any tariff, or fix any rate to control in the
future.
Our conclusion then is that Congress has not conferred
upon the commission the legislative power of prescribing
rates either maximum or minimum or absolute. As it did
not give the express power to the. commission it did not
intend to secure the same result indirectly by empowering
that tribunal to determine what in reference to the past was
reasonable and just, whether as maximum, minimum or absolute, and then enable it to obtain from the courts a peremptory order that in the future the railroad companies should
follow the rates thus determined to have been in the past
reasonable and just.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

The question certifed must be answered in the negative, and
it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

SAVANNAH,

FLORIDA

FLORIDA

FRUIT

AND

EXCHANGE.

WESTERN

RAILWAY

COMPANY

V.

Appeal from the United States

Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. No. 141. Argued
November 5, 1896. Decided May 24, 1897. MR. JUSTIcE BREWER
delivered the opinion of the court. The conclusions announced in
the case just decided dispose of this; and for the reasons stated in
that opinion, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and
the case remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructions to enter
a decree for the defendant, dismissing the bill without prejudice.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.
Mr. John E. Hartridge for appellant.
the brief.

Mr. R. G. Erwin was on

Mr. Charles M. Cooper for appellee.

WIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 494. Argued November 5, 6, 1896. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

Hauling goods on the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad from Cincinnati to Pittsbuirgh aad delivering them to a consignee in his warehouse
from a siding connection, and hauling similar goods for him from and
to the same cities on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, and delivering them
to him from the station of that road in Pittsburgh, there being no siding
connection, is transportation " under substantially similar circumstances
and conditions," within the meaning of section 2 of the interstate commerce act of February 4, 1887, c. 104; and a rebate allowed him by the
Baltimore and Ohio road to compensate for cartage to his warehouse is
a discrimination against other shippers over that road to whom no rebate is allowed.
Whether the same words as used in section 4 of that act have a broader
meaning or a wider reach than they do as used in section.2, is not determined.

