HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

HOVEY

v. ELLIOTT.

ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW- YORK.
No. 255. Argued March 30, 31, 1897. - Decided May 24, 1891.

It is not within the power of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
to order the answer of the defendant in a chancery suit pending in that
court to be stricken from the files, and a decree to be entered that the

bill be taken pro confesso against him, simply because he was held to be
guilty of contempt in neglecting to pay into court money held by him
which was the subject of controversy in the suit, and declined to appear

when summoned to do so.
A court possessing plenary power to punish for contempt, unlimited by
statute, has not the right to summon a defendant to answer, and then
after obtaining jurisdiction' by the summons, refuse to allow the party
summoned to answer or strike his answer from the files, suppress the
testimony in his favor, and condemn him without consideration thereof
and without a hearing, on the theory that he has been guilty of a contempt
of court.
The judicial history of the law concerning contempt -of court in England
and in this country reviewed and considered.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Everett P. Wheeler and ir. A. S. Worthington for
plaintiff in error.
.Mr. John Selden for defendant in error. Mr. I. B. Titus
filed a brief for same.
MR.

JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts out of which this controversy grows are fully
stated in ttovey v. McDonald, 109 U. S. 150, but we briefly
reiterate those which are material to an understanding of the
issues now presented.
A. R. McDonald, a British subject, obtained an award from
the Mixed Commission appointed under the treaty of 1871
for the settlement of the "Alabama claims." 17 Stat. 863.
Before the payment of the award, two suits in equity were
commenced in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia

OCTOBER TERM. 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

against McDonald and one William White, to whom it was
asserted McDonald had made a fraudulent assignment of his
claim. One of the suits was by Thomas R. Phelps, who
alleged that he was the owner of the claim as the assignee in
bankruptcy of McDonald; the other was brought by Hovey
and Dole, who claimed to be entitled to a one-fourth interest
in the award in consequence of an alleged contract which
they asserted they had made with McDonald entitling them
to an interest, to that extent, for professional services rendered
or to be rendered in the prosecution of the claim. Injunctions
were issued against the collection by McDonald and White of
the fund. In the Phelps suit a consenb decree was entered,
which was also assented to by the parties in the Hovey and
Dole case, releasing one-half of the award, anq ,authorizing
G. W. Riggs, who was appointed receiver, to collect the other
half and retain it to abide the result of both suits. The receiver, moreover, was directed to invest the money by him
collected either in registered bonds of the United States or of
the District of Columbia guaranteed by the United States.
The bills and amended bills were demurred to
in each suit,
and the demurrer in both cases being sustained the bills were
dismissed. The decree of dismissal in the Hovey and Dole
case, entered on the 24:th of June, 1875, simply stated that
the demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed with costs.
On the same day an appeal, without supersedeas, to the general term was noted on the minutes of the court. This decree
was a few days thereafter, on the 28th of June, amended by
ordering the receiver to pay over the funds in his hands and
providing for his discharge. This decree was presented to
the receiver, and in accordance with personal and verbal instructions given him by a judge of the court by which the
decree of dismissal was rendered, the receiver delivered the
bonds in his custody to McDonald. On the same day the firm
of Riggs & Company, supposing that they had a perfect
right so to do, purchased the bonds from McDonald at their
full market value, and caused them to be transferred into their
name. The decree of dismissal in the Phelps case, which was
also appealed from, was affirmed by the general term of the

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of the District, but that in the case of Hovey
and Dole was reversed. The latter case was put at issue by
filing an answer, averring fraud and wrongdoing on the part
of Hovey and Dole, the answer alleging facts which, if found
to be true, would have defeated a recovery by the complainants. After replication, testimony was taken at various
times during the years 1875 and 1876.
In June, 1877, the complainants obtained an order from the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia at general term,
requiring the defendants McDonald and White to "pay over
to the registry of the court" the sum of $49,297.50, which had
been paid them by the receiver. This order was disobeyed,
and thereupon the complainants, in September, 1877, moved
the defendants McDonald and White to show cause "why
they and each of them should not be punished for disobedience of the order as for a contempt." On December 8, 1877,
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia made a decree
at general term that "the rule upon the defendants to show
cause why they should not be decreed to be in, and punished
as for a contempt of court, etc., be made absolute, and that
the said McDonald and White be taken and deemed to be in
contempt of the aforesaid order," etc. Such decree further
provided that "unless McDonald and White, within six days
from the entry of this order, and the service of a copy thereof
upon their solicitors, shall in all respects comply with the said
order of June 19, 1877, and pay into the said registry of this
court the sum of $49,297.50, the answer filed by them in the
cause be stricken out, and that this cause proceed as if no
answer therein had been interposed; and that, until the said
defendants shall comply with the said order of June 19, 1877,
all proceedings on the part of said defendants in this cause be
and the same are hereby perpetually stayed."
I On December 29, 1877, the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia at general term, on motion of the complainants,
and proof of non-compliance on the part of the defendants
McDonald and White with the requirements of the decree of
December 8, 1877, "ordered, adjudged and decreed that the
answer filed in this cause by the defendants McDonald and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

White be stricken out and removed from the files of the court,
and that this cause do proceed as if 'noanswer herein had been
interposed."
On February 12, 1878, the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia at general term made decree as follows:
" The answer of defendants having been removed from the
files for their contempt in refusing to obey the order of court
and deposit in the registry the sum of $49,297.50, it is now
ordered, adjudged and decreed that the bill be taken pro
confesso against them."
On April 17, 1878, that order was made absolute by another
order or decree, which, after reciting material allegations in
the complainants' bill as "standing without denial on the part
of the defendants," ordered and adjudged "that the complainants have a lien upon the claim of Augustine R. McDonald
against the United States . . . of $197,190, and upon any
draft, money, evidence of indebtedness or proceeds thereof."
Thereafter proceedings were taken in the court by which
the judgment had been awarded, to compel Riggs as receiver
to account for the money which had come into his hands and
which he had paid over to McDonald under the circumstances
already stated. This suit culminated in a judgment in favor
of Riggs, affirmed by this court in lovey v. McDonald,supra.
The suit now before us was subsequently commenced in the
State of New York against the surviving partners of Riggs
& Company, but service was had only on one of the partners,
John Elliott, and he having died, his executors were substituted as parties defendant. The object of the suit was to
compel the defendants to account for the bonds or their value,
upon the theory that Riggs & Company had acquired them
with actual notice of the pending litigation concerning the
bonds, and were bound by the result of the judgment rendered
as above stated in the suit of .[ove~y and Dole v. MtcDonald.
The Court of Appeals of New York held that the judgment
was not binding upon Riggs & Company or the surviving
members thereof, because, as it was rendered in a contempt
proceeding after striking out the answer and refusing to consider the testimony filed in the cause, the judgment was

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of. the Court.

beyond the jurisdiction of the court, as the power of courts
of the District of Columbia, to punish for contempt, was restricted by the, provisions of section 725 of the Revised Statutes. 145 iN. Y., 126. The New York court, moreover, held
that, even assuming that the Supreme Court of the District
had jurisdiction, and that the doctrine of the liability of purchasers pendente lite applied to a purchase made under the
circumstances shown, the firm of Riggs & Company were not
such purchasers with reference to the judgment in question,
as the lis in which the judgment was rendered was not the
one pending at the time of the sale to the firm. From this
judgment error was prosecuted to this court upon the theory
that the decision of the Court of Appeals of the State. of New
York denied proper faith .and credit to the judgment rendered
by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Whether, as held by the court below, the courts of the District of Columbia are confined in all characters of contempt
only to an infliction of the penalties authorized in section 725
of the Revised Statutes, and, therefore, have not power in any
other form or manner to punish for a contempt, is a question
which we do not deem it necessary to decide, and as to which,
therefore, we express no opinion whatever. In the view we
take of the case, even conceding that the statute does not
limit their authority, and hence that the courts of the District of Columbia, notwithstanding the statute, are vested
with those general powers to punish for contempt which have
been usually exercised by courts of equity without express
statutory grant, a more fundamental question yet remains to
be determined, that is, whether a court possessing plenary
power to punish for contempt, unlimited by statute, has the
right to summon a defendant to answer, and then after obtaining jurisdiction by the summons, refuse to allow the party
summoned to answer or strike his answer from the files, suppress the testimony in his favor, and condemn him without
consideration thereof and without a hearing, on the theory
that he has been guilty of a contempt of court. The mere
statement of this proposition would seem, in reason and conscience, to render imperative a negative answer. The funda-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

mental conception of a court of justice is condemnation only
after hearing. To say that courts have inherent power to
deny all right to defend an action and to render decrees without any hearing whatever is, in the very nature of things, to
convert the court exercising such an Authority into an instrument of wrong and oppression, and hence to strip it of that
attribute of justice upon which the exercise of judicial power
necessarily depends.
In McVeigh v. United States, 11 Wall. 259, the court, through
Mr. Justice Swayne, said (p. 267):
"In our judgment, the District Court committed a serious
error in ordering the claim and answer of the respondent to
be stricken from the files. As we are unanimous in this conclusion, our opinion will be confined to that subject. The
order in effect denied the respondent a hearing. It is alleged
that he was in the position of an alien enemy, and hence could
have no locus standi in that forum. . . . The liability and
the right are inseparable. A different result would be a blot
upon our jurisprudence and civilization. We cannot hesitate
or doubt on the subject. It would be contrary to the first
principles of the social compact and of the right administration of justice."
And quoting with approval this language, in Windsor v.
Mc Veigh, 93 U. S. 274, the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Field, again said (pp. 277, 278):
"The principle stated in this terse language lies at the
foundation of all well-ordered systems of jurisprudence.
Wherever one is assailed in his person or his property, there
he may defend, for the liability and the right are inseparable.
This is a principle of natural justice, recognized as such by the
common intelligence and conscience of all nations. A sentence of a court pronounced against a party without hearing
him, or giving him an opportunity to be heard, is not a judicial determination of his rights, and is not entitled to respect
in any other tribunal.
"That there must be notice to a party of some kind, actual
or constructive, to a valid judgment affecting his rights, is
admitted. Until notice is given, the court has no jurisdiction

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

in any case to proceed to judgment, whatever its authority
may be, by the law of its organization, over the subject-mattdr.
But notice is only for the purpose of affording the party an
opportunity of being heard .upon the claim or the charges
made; it is a summons.to him to appear and speak, if he has
anything to say, why the judgment sought should not be rendered. A denial to a party of the benefit of a notice would
be in effect to deny that he is entitled to notice at all, and the
sham and deceptive proceeding had better be omitted altogether. It would be like saying to a party, appear and you
shall be heard; and, when he has appeared, saying, your appearance shall not be recognized, and you shall not be heard.
In the present case, the District Court not only in effect said
this, but immediately added a decree of condemnation, reciting that the default of all persons had been duly entered. It
is difficult to speak of a decree thus rendered with moderation;
it was in fact a mere arbitrary edict, clothed in the form of a
judicial sentence.'"
This language but expresses the most elementary conception of the judicial function. At common law no man was
condemned without being afforded opportunity to be heard.
Thus Coke (2 Inst. p. 46), in commenting on the 29th chapter
of Magna Charta, says: "No man shall be disseised, etc., unless
it be by the lawful judgment; that is, verdict of his equals (that
is, of men of his own condition) or by the law of the land (that
is, to speak it once for all), by the due course and process of
law.'
Blackstone, in Book 4 of his Commentaries, at page 282,
after referring to the subject of summary convictions, says:
"The process of these, summary convictions, it must be
owned, is extremely speedy, though the courts of common
law have thrown in one check upon them, by making it necessary to summon the party accused before he is condemned.
This is now-held to be an indispensable requisite, though the
justices long struggled against the point, forgetting that rule
of natural reason expressed by Seneca:
'Qui 8tatuit aliq uid, parte inaudita altera,
.- Equum licet statuerit,haud ceqausfuit':

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

a rule to which all municipal laws that are founded on the
principles of justice have strictly conformed; the Roman law
requiring a citation at the least, and our common law never
suffering any fact (either civil or criminal) to be tried till it
has previously compelled an appearance by the party concerned."
In Capel v. (hilds, 2 Cromp. & Jer. 558, (1832) the validity
of a proceeding by a bishop under an act of Parliament against
a church vicar was in question. A requisition upon the vicar
to do a certain act was held to be in the nature of a judgment
and void, as the party had no opportunity of being heard.
Lord Lyndhurst, C. B., at p. 574, said:
"A party has a right to be heard for the purpose of explaining his conduct; he has a right to call witnesses, for the
purpose of removing the impression made on the mind of the
bishop; he has a right to be heard in his own defence. On
consideration, then, it appears to me, that, if the requisition
of the bishop is to be considered a judgment, it is against
every principle of justice that that judgment should be pronounced, not only without giving the party an opportunity of
adducing evidence, but without giving him notice of the
intention of the judge to proceed to pronounce the judgment."
In Bonaker v. Evans, 16 Q. B. 162, the main question for
consideration was whether a sequestration ordered by a
bishop was a proceeding simply in the nature of a distress
to compel residence or altogether, or even in part in pvenam
for previous non-residence. The court said (p. 171):
"If it be the latter, then the bishop ought to have given
the incumbent an opportunity of being heard before it was
issued; for no proposition can be more clearly established
than that a man cannot incur the loss of liberty or property
for an offence by a judicial proceeding until he has had a fair
opportunity of answering the charge against him, unless
indeed the legislature has expressly or impliedly given an
authority to act without that necessary preliminary. This is
laid down in Bagg's case, 11 Rep. 93b, 99a; Rex v. The Chancellor &c. of the University of Cambridge (Dr.Bentley's case),
1 Strange, 557; Rex v. Benn, 6 T. R. 198; Harper v. Carr,

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

7 T. R. 270; and Rex v. Gaskin, 8 T. R. 209; and many other
cases, concluding with that of Capel v. Childs, 2 Cromp. & Jer.
558, in which Bayley, B., says he knows of no case in which
you are to have a judicial proceedings, by which a man is to
be deprived of any part of his property, without his having an
opportunity of 'being heard. That case was a very strong
one, and shows how firmly the court adhere to that great
principle of justice, that, in every judicial proceeding, 'Qui
aliquid statuerit parte inauditd alterd, .zquum licet statuerit
non tquusfuerit.'"
Story, in his treatise on the Constitution (vol. 2, ยง 1789),
speaking of the clause in the Fifth Amendment, where it is
declared that no person "shall be deprived of life, liberty or
property, without due process of law," says:
"The other part of the clause is but an enlargement of the
language of Magna Charta, 'nee super eum ibimus, nee super
eum mittimu, nisi per legale judicium parium suorum, vet per
legem terrai' (neither wiJl we pass upon him, or condemn him,
but by the lawful judgment of his peers, or by the law of the
land). Lord Coke says that these latter words, per legem
terrce (by the law of the land), mean by due process of law,
that is, without due presentment or indictment, and being
brought into answer thereto by due process of the common
law. So that this clause in effect affirms the right of trial
according to the process and proceedings of the common law."
Can it be doubted that due process of law signifies a right
to be heard in one's defence? If the legislative department
of the government were to enact a statute conferring the
right to condemn the citizen without any opportunity whatever of being heard, would it be pretended that such an enactment Would not be violative of the Constitution? If this
be trze, as it undoubtedly is, how can it be said that the
judicial department, the source and fountain of justice itself,
has yet the authority to render lawful that which if done
under express legislative sanction would be violative of
If such power obtains, then the judithe Constitution.
cial department of the government sitting to uphold and
enforce the Constitution is the only one possessing a power
VOL. CLXVII- 27

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to disregard it. If such authority exists then in consequence
of their establishment, to compel obedience to law and to
enforce justice courts possess the right to inflict the very
wrongs which they were created to prevent.
In Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350, the court said (p. 368):
"It is a rule as old as the law, and never more to be respected than now, that no one shall be personally bound until
he has had his day in court, by which is meant, until he has

been duly cited to appear, and has been afforded an opportu-

nity to be heard. Judgment without such citation and opportunity wants all the attributes of a judicial determination; it
is judicial usurpation and oppression, and can never be upheld
where justice is justly administered."
Again, in Ex parte Wall, 107 U. S. 265, 289, the court quoted
with. approval the observations as to "due process of law"
made by Judge Cooley, in his Constitutional Limitations, at
page 353, where he says:
"Perhaps no definition is more often quoted than that given
by Mr. Webster in the Dartmouth College case: 'By the law
of the land is most clearly intended the general law; a law
which hears before it condemns, which proceeds upon inquiry
and renders judgment only after trial. The meaning is that
every citizen shall hold his life, liberty, property and immunities under the protection of the general rules which govern
society.'"
And that the judicial department of the government is, in
the nature of things, necessarily governed in the exercise of
its functions by the rule of due process of law, is well illustrated by another observation of Judge Cooley, immediately
following the language just quoted, saying: "The definition
here given is apt and suitable as applied to judicial proceedings, which cannot be valid unless they 'proceed upon inquiry,'
and 'render judgment only after trial.'"
The necessary effect of the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia was to decree that a portion of
the award made in favor of the defendant, in other words,
his property, belonged to the complainants in the cause. The
decree therefore awarded the property of the defendant to

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

the complainants upon the hypothesis of fact that by contract
the defendant had transferred the right in or to this property
to the complainant. If the court had power to do this, by
denying the right to be heard to the defendant, what plainer
illustration could there be of taking property of one and
giving it to another without hearing or without process of
law. If the power to violate the fundamental constitutional
safeguards securing property exists, and if they may be with
impunity set aside by courts on the theory that they do not
apply to proceedings in contempt, why will they not also
apply to proceedings against the liberty of the subject?
Why should not a court in a criminal proceeding deny to
the accused all right to be heard on the theory that he is in
contempt, and sentence him to the full penalty of the law.
No distinction between the two cases can be pointed out.
The one would be as flagrant a violation of the rights of the
citizen as the other, the one as pointedly as the other would
convert the judicial department of the government into an
engine of oppression and would make it destroy great constitutional safeguards.
But the argument is that however plain may be the want
of power in all other branches of the government to condemn
a citizen without a hearing, both upon the elementary principles of justice and under the express language of the Constitution, these principles do not limit the power of courts
to punish for contempt or as for contempt, because it is
asserted that from the earliest times the Chancery Court in
England has possessed and exercised the power to refuse the
right to be heard to one in contempt, and that a power so
well established in England, before the adoption of the Constitution and which has been so often exercised since, is not
controlled by the principles of reason and justice just stated.
But this contention is without solid foundation to rest upon,
and is based upon a too strict and literal rendering of general
language to be found in isolated passages contained in the
works of writers on ancient law and practice and on loose
statements as to the practice of the Court of Chancery to be
found in a few decisions of English courts. Certain it is that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

in all the reported decisions of the Chancery Courts in England
no single case can be found where a Court of Chancery ever
ordered an answer to be stricken from the files and denied to
a party defendant all right of hearing because of a supposed
contempt. And in the American adjudications, whilst there
are two cases, one in New York and the other in Arkansas,
asserting the existence of such power, an analysis of these
cases and the authorities upon which they rely will conclusively show the erroneous character of the conclusions reached.
The foundation for the assertion that the power existed in
and was exercised by the English Court of Chancery to strike
from the files the answer of a defendant in contempt for disobedience to an order made in the cause, and to decree pro
confe8so against him, primarily rests upon what is supposed to
be the true construction of one of the ordinances of Lord Bacon
(promulgated in 1618), which reads as follows:
"78. They that are in rebellion, especially as far as proclamation of rebellion, are not to be here (heard?), neither in
that suit, nor in any other, except the court of special grace
suspend the contempt."
What construction was given to this ordinance or the extent
to which it was enforced by the Court of Chancery in the years
immediately succeeding its adoption cannot be positively
affirmed, as we have not found nor have we been referred to
any decisions made in the seventeenth or eighteenth centuries
purporting to be based upon that ordinance.
On the mere text of the ordinance, it is manifest that it
does not necessarily embrace the power to enter a decreepro
conesso, after answer filed, upon the theory that the defendant was guilty of contempt. On the contrary, the proclamation of rebellion, referred to in the ordinance, was one of the
then recognized processes for the purpose of compelling an
answer in the suit. Indeed, the powers of the chancery
courts to punish for contempt were normally brought into
play, beginning with an attachment of the person and culmi
nating in the sequestration of the property of the one in contempt in order to compel an appearance and answer. Gilbert,
For. Rom. p. 33; 3 Bl. Com. 443. Nowhere in these works is

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion .of the Court.

there an intimation that, as a penalty for contempt, a refractory
defendant, not in default for answer, might be punished by
being disallowed the right to defend against the bill filed in
the cause. So far from such being the case, as already stated,
a party who failed to appear or answer was treated as in contempt, and the various processes for contempt were resorted
to in order to compel his appearance and answer; this being
done in order that the conscience of the court might be satisfied when it entered a decree in the cause.
Thus in the Forum Romanum, Lord Chief Baron Gilbert
says (p. 35):
"The canonists do take the proclamation or primum decretum to be quasi litis contestatio; and, therefore, the plaintiff
may proceed to his proofs, and then the 8ecundum decretum
for the thing in demand may be pronounced. We have no
quasi litis contestatio with us, because, unless the defendant
comes in and contests there is no jurisdiction to a court of
conscience; for unless the party confesses the fraud or corruption of which the court inquires, or it be proved upon him,
there is no -sufficient ground for a decree, which cannot be
without contestatio litis.
"But there are two cases in which an implied confession is
a sufficient ground for a decree.
"The first is, when a man appears by his clerk in court, and
afterwards lies in prison, and is brought up three times to
court by ha. cor., and has the bill read to him, and he refuses
to answer. Such public refusal in court does amount to the
confession of the whole bill.
"The second case is, when a person appears and departs
without answering, and the whole process of the court has
been awarded against him after his appearance and departure,
to the sequestration. There also the bill is taken pro confesso,
because it is presumed to be true when he has appeared, and
departs in spite of the court, and withstands all its process
without answering; and this seems to have been the ancient
practice of the civil law, for Justinian, by the Novel, brought
in the secundum deoretum in the absence of the party; and
the canonists, by a fiction of law, made the proclamation quasi

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

lIt's contestatio; but by the ancient civil law no decree could
be had against an absent person against whom process had
been issued, but could never be brought in to appear And it
is so with us, that if the whole process of the court be spent,
and the defendant never appears, you can never have a decree,
for you can never make any proofs against an absent person
who is never brought into contest, and there is no foundation
for a decree without confession or proofs. However, the
plaintiff has the benefit of the sequestration, which answers to
the primum decretumn."
While by act 5 Geo. II, c. 25, for want of appearance, when
a defendant avoided service of process, the court was authorized, after the giving of prescribed public notice, to order the
plaintiff's bill to be taken pro confesso, Davis v. Davis, 2 Atk.
21, 23, the text quoted is convincing evidence that a decree
was only permissible in the "court of conscience"' under a
state of facts which justified the implication of an admission
by the defendant that the allegations of the bill were true,
and that the practice was not pursued as a punishment for any
other contempt than of contumaciously refusing to inform the
chancellor of the defence, if any, possessed by the defendant
in a cause.
In stating the practice with reference to injunction suits,
several of the ancient writers use general language as to the
practice pursued when a party disobeyed an injunction, which,
perhaps, affords room for speculation as to the extent to which
the court might have proceeded in refusing to hear a party
who had violated its order and had not purged his contempt.
Thus, in the Practical Register in Chancery, p. 217, it is said:
"Where an Injunction is disobeyed, on Oath thereof, Process of Contempt is to issue against the Contemnor, as in other
Cases, till he yield Obedience; nor is he to be heard in the
principal Case, till he yield Obedience."
Comyn, in his Digest (Chancery, D. 8), thus puts it:
"And if, after service (of an injunction), it shall be disobeyed, all process for contempt issues, till the offender be
taken and committed upon an affidavit of his disobedience.
Vide Pract. Reg. in Chan. 217.

HOVEY v. ELTIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

"And when he is taken he shall be committed, until he
obeys, or gives security for his obedience, and shall not be
heard in the principal case, until he obey." Ib.
Whether in early chancery times the practice was to stay all
proceedings on the part of a disobedient party defendant until
his contempt of an injunction was purged, can only be surmised.
In 1788 it seems that a defendant, though in contempt*for
violating an injunction, might file his answer in the cause.
Robinson v. Lord Byron, 2 Dick. 703. It is not t all unlikely
that the restriction was upon the party coming before the
court by way of motion seeking affirmative action by the court
in his favor. It is certain that neither in the Register nor in
Comyns is there a suggestion that a party, while in contempt
for disobedience of an injunction, might, for such cause, be
defaulted upon the merits.
The Forum Romanum makes no reference to the rule or
method of practice stated in the Register, otherwise than as
may be inferred from the statements in paragraph 11, p. 194,
where the author mentions that by the proceeding then in
vogue for punishing for breach of an injunction "a man is at
once deprived of his liberty, and cannot move or petition but
in vinculis, unless the court otherwise give leave on a petition
to hear him."
The review and analysis of the English cases which we now
propose to make will demonstrate that the passages to which
we have just referred could not have imported the power of a
court to strike an answer from the files and take a bill for confessed because of a contempt, since that analysis will conclusively establish that there is no basis for the assertion that the
Courts of Chancery in England claimed or exercised the power,
after answer filed, to decree pro confesso on the merits against
a defendant, merely because he persisted in disobedience to an
order of the court, though the cases do show that the Chancery Courts commonly refused to hear a defendant in contempt
when asking at their hands a favor. The difference between
the want of power, on the one hand, to refuse to one in contempt the right to defend in the principal case on the merits,
and the existence of the authority, on the other, to refuse to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

accord a favor to one in contempt, is clearly illustrated by the
whole line of adjudicated cases.
The cases of Phillips v. Bucks, (Duke) 1 Vern. 227, (1683);
Roper v. Roper, 2 Vern. 91, (1688); and Maynard v. Pomfret,
3 Atk. 468, (1746) do not discuss the ordinance of Lord Bacon,
but touch upon the question of the right of a defendant in
contempt to be heard. In the first case cited, the reporter, in
a marginal note, alluding to a defendant who was in contempt
forfailure to appearor answer, says: "One of the defendants
is in contempt and stands out to a sequestration and the cause
is heard against the other defendants; yet he may come in and
answer, and the cause may be heard again as to him." In
Roper v. Roper, upon a decree for payment of money, after
a writ of execution and an attachment returned, the court
declined to give leave to defendant to be examined, unless he
gave security to abide the decree. This was clearly an application addressed to the discretion of the court, and therefore
a matter of favor.
In Maynard v. Pomfret, a bill was brought against the
defendant for a discovery. As the material part of the case
depended upon the discovery, the defendant would not answer,
but stood out the whole process of contempt to a sequestration,
and the bill was taken pro confesso, and there was a decree
against the defendant ad computandum. It was moved, on
behalf of the defendant, that the sequestration may be discharged on paying the costs of the contempt. The chancellor regarded action upon the application as discretionary, and
held that the sequestration should be kept on foot to stand
as security for the appearance of the defendant before the
master.
That in the time of Lord Clarendon the practice of the
Court of Chancery was only to deny to a party in contempt
the privilege of having favorable action taken by the court
upon applications addressed to its discretion finds support, not
only in the case of Phillipsv. Bucks, supra, but also in a decision of Sir H. Grimston, Master of the Rolls, who, in refusing
an application for relief against a sequestration of lands of the
defendant following a decree, assigned, among other reasons,

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

the following: "2dly the defendant not having performed
the decree by the payment of the money, he shall not receive
any favour from the court whilst he stands in contempt."
Bacon's Abridgment, Sequestration, C., the marginal reference
being to a case entitled Sands v. Darrell.
Vowle8 v. Young, 9 Ves. 172, (1803) was likewise an application to the favor of the court. A decree absolute had been
entered after a decree nisi, against a defendant who was in
default, and consequently in contempt. He applied for a rehearing, and in the course of an opinion granting the application upon terms, Lord Eldon said, not citing authority: "As to
the contempt, the general rule is, that the parties must clear
their contempt before they can be heard." The language
of the chancellor necessarily related to the question before it,
that is, an application for a rehearing addressed to the exercise of discretion. Stating the general and not the invariable
rule, implied the possible existence of exceptions to such rule.
Anonymous, 15 Ves. 174, (1808) was a case where the defendant, being in default for not answering, filed an answer
without making any stipulation for the payment of costs, and
also moved to dismiss the bill for want of prosecution. Upon
the authority of the passage in Vowles v. Young, just quoted,
counsel for the complainant objected that the defendant could
not make the motion or take any step to the prejudice of the
plaintiff, until the contempt was discharged. The Lord Chancellor said: "The general rule, that has been referred to, is
perfectly true; that a party, who has not cleared his contempt, cannot be heard." The plaintiff, however, was held
to have waived the right to treat the defendant as being in
contempt, because he had excepted and replied to the answer
without insisting upon the costs and enforcing his process of
contempt. Presumably, the general rule here referred to was
that to which we. have already adverted, viz., the power of a
chancellor to refuse to grant a favor to one in contempt.
The facts brought the case under this rule, since the defendant
who was in contempt for not paying the costs, on filing his
answer, sought to invoke the aid of the court to dismiss the
plaintiff's bill for failure to prosecute the suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Iteyn v. Heyn, Jacob, 49, decided in 1821, was a case where,
after a decree pro confesso upon default for answer, the defendant moved that a sequestration which had been issued
,against his property for not putting in his answer might be
discharged upon payment of costs, and that he might be allowed to attend the master upon the taking of the accounts
directed by the decree. The Lord Chancellor observed that
an answer which had been put in after an order for taking
the bill pro confes8o ought not to be noticed, and that it could
not vary the decree which had been rendered. He, however,
granted the application upon conditions, being of opinion that
the defendant was not at liberty to go before the master without an order. The mere statement of this case demonstrates
that it involved purely a question of whether the chancellor
would accord to the defendant a favor or privilege.
in Clark v. Dew, 1 Russ. & M. 103, (1829) the plaintiff
applied for the appointment of a receiver, and it was objected
by the defendants that, as the plaintiff was in contempt of
court for disobeying certain orders in another cause peniling
between the same parties, he ought not to be heard in this.
All that was said by the Lord Chancellor on the subject under
review was as follows:
"That the practice was the same, he apprehended, in equity
as at law, that a party could not move, till he cleared his contempt; but that the rule must be confined to proceedings in
the same cause; otherwise, the consequence would be that a
party, who was utterly unable to comply with an order of the
court, might be prevented from afterwards prosecuting any
claims, however just, against the person who had succeeded
in obtaining that order. Here the suit was between the same
parties, but it had reference to distinct properties."
It will be seen that this conflicts with the literal language
of Lord Bacon's ordinance, which was that a party should
not be heard "neither in that suit, nor any other," etc.
Several decisions of the Rolls Court in Ireland bearing upon
the question are contained in the first volume of Hogan's
Reports.
Thus, in Anon. v. Lord Gort, p. 77, (1823) a receiver was

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

moved for on process against the defendant, who opposed the
application. Counsel for plaintiff insisted that, as the defendant was in contempt, he should not be heard unless he purged
his contempt, citing Vowle- v. Young, supra. The Master of
the Rolls said:
"The general rule is, that when a party is in contempt, he
will not be allowed to oppose the relief sought by the plaintiff,
by contradicting the allegations in his bill, or bringing forward
any defence, or alleging new facts, neither will he be heard by
affidavit, except it be made with a view of purging his contempt, but he may be heard to direct the attention of the
court to any error or insufficiency in the plaintiff's own case,
as made by the bill, as for example, if it should appear by the
bill that plaintiff's charge only extends over Whiteacre, and
the plaintiff, by motion, sought a receiver over Blackacre."
The application for a receiver would seem to have been one
of the steps in the process of punishment for contempt for not
answering. Thus, in the case of Fitzpatrick v. -Hawkshaw,
1b. p. 82, a motion was made for the appointment of a receiver on process against the defendant, and in the marginal
note it is said: "A defendant who has appeared, but is in
contempt for not answering, is entitled to notice of a motion
for a receiver on process."
A further indication that the rule was not understood to
operate to deny to a defendant a hearing upon matters of
strict right is shown by the case of Cooke v. De Montmorency,
1 Hogan, 181, where it was held that though a party was in
contempt, he might notwithstanding apply for and obtain
time to answer the bill, and an order on the plaintiff to stay
the entry of process in the meantime.
In the case of Valle v. O'Reilly, 1 Hogan, 199, complainant
moved for the appointment of a receiver on process against,
the defendant, on an affidavit stating that the bill was filed
to raise the arrears of an annuity which was still due. The
contempt would seem to have consisted in failure to answer.
After observing that the estate was in the possession of a
receiver in another cause, the Master of the Rolls said:
"As this defendant is in contempt, he cannot be heard to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

dispute or deny the plaintiff's case, as disclosed by his bill;
but he may be heard to point out the irregularity or impropriety of any application made by his antagonist. I must refuse this motion and give the defendants the cost of appearing
here this day."
The-cases of Howard v. Newman, 1 Moll. 221, and Odell v.
Hart, 1 Moll. 492, were decided by the Lord Chancellor in 1828.
In Hloward v. Newman a rule to refer the bill for impertinence
was obtained by the defendant, against whom there was process for want of an answer. The rule was discharged, the Lord
Chancellor saying: "A party in contempt is not .to be heard
until his contempt is cleared, except only to complain that he
is irregularly put in contempt, and ought not to be so. He is
precluded from applying for any order of any kind." Of course
refusal to allow a party to move until he has answered, and
when he was in default for not answering, cannot possibly be
construed as supporting the contention that when a defendant
had regularly answered his answer might be stricken from the
files, and the case be decided as though no answer had ever,
been filed.
In Odell v. Hart a motion was made on behalf of the defendant to set aside ds irregular an order which awarded an
attachment absolute (instead of conditional) in the first instance against him for not bringing in title deeds according to
a previous order. It was objected that the defendant, being
defacto in contempt, ought to appear in vinoulis, citing Vowles

v. Young, 9 Yes. 172.
The Lord Chancellor said:
"A party in contempt may move by counsel to set aside the
order against him, by which he is declared to be in contempt,
for irregularity in that order, without coming in vinculis, but
for no other purpose, without submitting himself to custody."
In other words, the party in contempt, when not in custody
cannot apply to the courtfor an order except. to set aside for

irregularity the order adjudging him guilty of contempt.
In Rickett8 v. 3ornington, 7 Sim. 200, decided in 1834, we
find the first adjudicated case directly referring to the seventyeighth ordinance of Lord Bacon. On the authority of the

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

ordinance and the case of Vowle8 v. Young, supra, defendant
objected to the cause being heard, on the ground that the
plaintiff was in contempt for disobedience of an order in the
case. The opinion rendered by the vice chancellor is as follows:
"Suppose the Defendant had moved to dismiss the Bill, the
Plaintiff, notwithstanding he was in Contempt, might have
come forward and assigned reasons why his Bill should not be
dismissed.
"Lord Bacon's Order, as administered in Practice, is confined to Cases where Parties who are in Contempt come forward, voluntarily, and ask for Indulgences. But the Rules of
the Court make it imperative on the Plaintiff to bring his
Cause to a Hearing at a certain time; and, therefore, the
Cause must proceed."
Barker v. Dawson and Parry v. Perryman were decided,

respectively, in 1836 and 1838, and are reported in 1 Coop.
Ch. C. 207. The general rule was stated to be that a party
in contempt could not be heard on other matters, but it was
held that there were exceptions to it, as where an order which
was alleged to be irregular was obtained subsequent to a contempt, and it was sought to set it aside for irregularity, and
"where the party in contempt was merely protecting himself," in both of which cases the rule was held not to apply.
The Lord Chancellor said that to extend the rule to the case
of an order made subsequent to the contempt "would place
the party in contempt too much at the mercy of his adversary."
King v. Bryant, 3 M. & C. 191, (1838) was a foreclosure
suit, in which the defendant, after appearance, was in contempt for want of an answer and was imprisoned under attachment. A decree was subsequently taken pro confesso ordering
an account, and the proceedings before the master were had
exeparte without notice to the defendant. An application was
made by the defendant praying that the order confirming the
report of the master might be discharged, and that it might be
referred back to the master to review his report. An objection
made before the vice chancellor was renewed on appeal, viz.,

OCTOBER TERM. 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

that the defendant was not entitled to be heard, because in
contempt. The Lord Chancellor, however, decided that the
defendant was entitled to be heard to show that the plaintiff
had been irregular in his mode of prosecuting the decree, and
also said (p. 195):
"If the plaintiff ought to have served warrants on the
defendant (to attend before the master) and if he ought to
have served him with the order nisi, it would be a most unjust
extension of the rule against parties in contempt, to take away
a man's estate without giving him any opportunity of coming
in and protecting himself.
"The court will not hear a party in contempt coming himself into court to take any advantage of proceedings in the
cause; but such a party is entitled to appear, notwithstanding,
and resist any proceedings taken against him, and it would be
a very easy way of evading that rule if his adversary, instead
of giving him notice, were to avoid serving him, and then to
say that he could not take advantage of the rule in order
to impeach the previous proceedings. However there is no
such practice.
"The court punishe the defendant's default in refusing to
answer, by giving to the plaintiff the benefit of a decree upon
the bill as confessed; but there the advantage stops, and when
the decree is once pronounced, the subsequent duty of the
court and its officers is to execute that decree in the ordinary
.way. Accordingly, no authority is to be found in support of
the proposition that, upon a decree taking the bill pro confesso, and directing an account, the account may be prosecuted
-ex varte. The case of Dominicetti v. Latti shows that, in
the year 1781, the practice was considered to be directly
otherwise. .
"The plaintiff here has miscarried. He has proceeded ex
parte, when he ought to have proceeded by warrants, and the
present application is to protect the defendant against an
order for a foreclosure, obtained upon an irregular report,
which can only be considered as a nullity."
In Wilson v. Bates, 3 M. & C. 197, the plaintiff, while in'

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

contempt and in the custody of the sheriff for failure to pay
the costs of a motion, sued out an attachment against the
defendants for want of an answer, under which the defendants were arrested and thereupon entered into bail bonds.
The vice chancellor having refused a motion, on behalf of
the defendants, that the attachments against them might be
set aside, and that the bail bonds might be ordered to be cancelled, the motion was renewed before the Lord Chancellor,
by way of appeal. Counsel for defendants contended that the
proceedings of the plaintiff were irregular because a party in
contempt could not take any proceedings in the cause, and
cited the seventy-eighth ordinapee of Lord Bacon and Vowles
v. Young, supra. Counsel for plaintiff characterized the proposition that a plaintiff could not take any step in a cause for the
reason that an attachment had issued for non-payment of costs,
"as new, and if established, would be a dangerous extension of
the ordinary rule with respect to parties in contempt." The
Lord Chancellor, after alluding to the fact that no case upon the
point had been produced, and that the argument was mainly

grounded upon the seventy-eighth ordinance of Lord Bacon,
said (p. 200):
"That ordinance, although the foundation of the practice,
can only be construed now by the practice which has since
prevailed with reference to it.

It is quite obvious that its

terms, if striotly acted upon, would produce a very different
state of practice from that which is recognized in modern
times. If I had to decide upon that in the first instance, and
were called upon to settle a rule for future guidance, I certairily never should lay down any such rule. It would seem
extraordinary that a party, who may not be able to pay the
costs of a refused motion, should be therefore absolutely
stopped from asserting his rights. At the same time, if the
practice be established, it would not be for me to alter it.
Now, although it may be generally true that a party in contempt
cannot be heard to make a motion, he is nevertheless permitted
to be heard upon a motion to get rid of that contempt, a case
for which, so far as I can see, Lord Bacon's ordinance makes
no provision. It is also well settled, that if a party in con-

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tempt is brought into court by any proceedings taken against
him, he has a right to be heard in his defence, and in opposition to those proceedings; another case which is inconsistent
with Lord Bacon's ordinance, if construed strictly."
The conclusion was reached that there was an absence of
all authority to sustain the proposition contended for, and
that the vice chancellor was right in permitting the plaintiff
to proceed in the cause.
In Bickford v. Skewes, 10 Sim. 193, (1839) plaintiff moved
to defer the trial of a cause until the defendant had cleared
himself of a contempt. The vice chancellor said (p. 196);
"The motion now before m'e is one of the first impression.
A party who is in contempt may, at any time, clear his contempt. At the time the Lord Chancellor's order was made,
the defendant was not in contempt. That order is still in
full force, and I cannot understand how the circumstance
that the defendant had subsequently come in contempt can
give to the plaintiff the right to postpone the trial of this
action, which, to a certain extent, he is under an obligation
to try. The defendant may, perhaps, clear his contempt before the trial, but whatever may be the circumstances of the
defendant, the order of the court may remain as it is. Although the cases cited afford some countenance for this application, I cannot think that they warrant it, and therefore I
shall refuse the motion without costs."
Here it appears that the defendant, though in contempt,
was conceded to be entitled to participate in the trial of the
cause.
In Everett v. Prythergeh, 12 Sim. 363, (1841) it was held
that a defendant, though himself in contempt for want of
answer, might except to the bill for scandal, but not for impertinence.
In Cattell v. Simons, 5 Beav. 396, it was held that it was
competent for a plaintiff, though in contempt, to refer for
scandal and impertinence an affidavit filed on the part of the
defendant in opposition to a motion filed by the plaintiff,
while he was in contempt for non-payment of costs, asking
that costs be set off between the parties. The Master of the

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

Rolls said that the motion was one which the plaintiff was
clearly entitled to make, being an application for relief against
the process of attachment.
In Mforrison v. Morrison, 4 Hare, 590, (1844) it was held
that a party in contempt for non-payment of costs, and who
had been served with an order nisi to confirm a report, might,
notwithstanding his contempt, take exceptions to the report,
and draw up, pass, and enter an order to set down the exceptions; and might also present and be heard upon his petition
to discharge the report as irregular, and for leave to open the
accounts allowed in former reports, on the ground that items
therein were allowed in the absence of the petitioner and
while the suit was abated. A motion to discharge the order
setting down the exceptions, and that the exceptions might
be taken off the files, was made upon the ground that a party
in contempt cannot take any active step in the cause until
he had cleared his contempt. Counsel in opposition to the
motion contended that the steps taken by the defendant were
purely defensive, and characterized as "most extravagant"
the proposition "that a party who was unable to pay a sum
for costs should be precluded from taking any step in a cause,
while his adversary might proceed, and his entire rights on
the subject of the suit be concluded without allowing him to
be heard." The vice chancellor held (p. 594) that "What the petitioner is in truth doing, is seeking to protect himself against the proceedings which have been taken
in the cause; and the cases of Wilson v. Bates and King v.
Bryant show that, in such a case, the being in contempt will
not now prevent, if it ever would have prevented, the party
from applying to the court."
In Oldjield v. Cobbett, 1 Phillips Ch. 613, (1845) it was
held, among other things, that a party who is in contempt for
non-payment of costs in the suit, is not thereby prevented
from moving for leave to defend it informa pauperis.
Chuck v. Cremer, 1 Coop. Ch. C. 205, was decided in 1846.
A defendant having unsuccessfully sought to dissolve an injunction obtained ex parte, gave notice of motion by way of
appeal. It was objected that the defendant could not be
VOL. CLXvii-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

heard, because previously to the giving of notice an attachment
had issued against him, when abroad, for not having put in an
answer. - The decision upon this objection is thus reported:
"The Lord Chancellor said he was of opinion that the
appeal motion could not proceed. That a party was entitled
to be heard, if his object was to get rid of the order or other
proceeding, which placed him in contempt, and he was also
entitled to be heard for the purpose of resisting or setting
aside for irregularity any proceedings subsequent to his contempt; but he was not generally entitled to take a proceeding
in the cause for his own benefit. That there were exceptions
to the last rule, but they were few in number."
In Futvoye v. Kennard, 2 Giff. 110, (1860) the plaintiff
moved to discharge an order in the cause, and the defendants
took the preliminary objection that the plaintiff being in contempt for the non-payment of the costs of a motion, which
had been refused with costs, could only be heard to purge his
contempt. On the intimation of the vice chancellor that he
thought the objection could not be maintained, the objection
was not pressed, and the motion was heard and refused.
In Fry v. Ernest, 12 Weekly Reporter, 97, (1863) a bill was
filed by mortgagees for the purpose of enforcing their security.
The defendant put in his answer' and also filed a bill in the
cause of Ernest v. Partridge(to which Fry and several others
were made defendants) for the purpose, among other things,
of setting aside the mortgage security. A demurrer being
allowed to this bill, Ernest afterwards filed in Fry v. Ernest a
concise statement, containing in substance the same averments
as those in Ernest v. Partridge,and exhibited interrogations
for the examination of the plaintiff Fry. Upon a summons
taken out by the plaintiff the chief clerk made an order enlarging the plaintiff's time to answer the interrogatories for
one month, after payment by the defendant of the costs of
the demurrer in Ernest v. Partridge. Counsel for the plaintiff
contended that the concise statement must be treated merely
as a cross bill, and that the defendant could not be allowed
to harass the plaintiff with'a second cross bill until he had
paid the costs of the first.

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

"Wood, V. C., said that, according to the general rule, a
defendant, though in contempt, was at liberty to take every
step necessary for his defence. He looked upon this mode of
proceeding as of a nature purely defensive, and the defendant
was therefore entitled to file a concise statement and interrogatories, which were material for his defence, and the plaintiff must answer within the usual time. The order of the
chief clerk would be discharged with costs ; such costs, however, as the defendant was in default for his former costs,
were not to be paid to him."
In -aldane v. Ekford, L. R. 7 Eq. 425, (1869) it was held
that although a defendant is in contempt, not for non-payment of costs, but for non-compliance with orders of the court,
he is entitled to take any step required for the purposes of
his defence. The report of the case (p. 426) reads as follows:
"The vice chancellor said that although the contempts
committed have been of the most flagrant kind, as these
documents were required by the defendants for the purposes
of defending themselves, he had no jurisdiction to refuse the
order."
In Chatterton v. Thomas, 36 L. J. Ch. 592, (1886) a plaintiff
in contempt was held to be at liberty to proceed with the
cause in the ordinary way; and a special order for leave to
amend was granted to him.
Other decisions illustrating the general rule that a party in
contempt cannot be heard to ask a favor are digested by
Chitty in his Equity Index, vol. 5, p. 4366, but it is unnecessary to particularly refer to them, as none of them are relied
on in argument or change the result of the foregoing cases.
It is manifest from this review of the English cases that
they lend no support whatever to the claim that the English
Court of Chancery claimed to exercise the power to strike out
an answer and render a decree pro confesso, as a punishment
for contempt. It also clearly establishes that the seventyeighth ordinance of Lord Bacon was never construed or enforced according to its strict import, if under that import it
authorized the conclusion that a power existed in a Court of
Chancery to condemn without a hearing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The conclusion which we have reached accords with that of
Daniell, who in his Chancery Pleadings and Practice (vol. 1,
pp. *504, *505) says:
"Besides the personal and pecuniary inconvenience to which
a party subjects himself by a contempt of the ordinary process
of the court, he places himself in this further predicament, viz.:
That of not being in a situation to be heard, in any application
which he may be desirous of making to the court. Lord
Chief Baron Gilbert lays it down, that 'upon this head it is
to be observed, as a general rule, that the contemnor, who is
in contempt, is never to be heard, by motion or otherwise, till
he has cleared his contempt, and paid the costs; as, for example, if he comes to move for anything, or desires any favor of
the court.
"The rule, that a party in contempt cannot move till he
has cleared his contempt, is, in practice, confined to cases
where such party comes forward voluntarily and asks for an
indulgence; and, therefore, a defendant cannot object to a
cause being heard because the plaintiff is in contempt. So a
defendant in contempt is entitled to production of documents."
The learned author nowhere suggests in his treatise that
under any conceivable circumstance has a Court of Chancery
in England ever allowed a decree pro confesso to be taken,
otherwise than upon default for appearance for answer. See
chap. 11, p. *517, "On Taking Bills Pro Confesso."
The decisions in this country, with two exceptions, which
we have, in the outset, referred to, substantially maintain the
view we have reached of the question under consideration.
An early case holding the correct rule, viz., that a party in
contempt was not entitled to be heard upon an application
not of strict right, but a matter of mere favor, is Johnson v.
Pinney, 1 Paige, 646, decided in 1829. In that case, after an
order had been entered closing the proofs, the defendant
applied for a commission to take the testimony of a witness.
Objection was made that the defendant was in contempt for
not paying a bill of costs on a motion previously made by
him to dissolve an injunction in the suit. In granting the
application, upon terms, the chancellor said: "It is a general

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

rule that a party cannot apply to the court for a favor while
he is in contempt. Vowles v. Young, 9 Ves. 172; Prac. Reg.
138; Green v. Thompson, 1 Sim. & Stu. 121." The doctrine
of this decision was adopted by the Supreme Court of New
Hampshire in 46 N. I. 38 (1865).
In 1846, in Ellingwood v. Stevenson, 4 Sandf. Ch. 366, the
bill having been taken pro confesso when the defendant was
in default for not answering, a motion was made to open the
default and for other relief. The vice chancellor said (p. 368):
"3. The motion to open the default for not answering would
be granted upon terms, but for the contempt for which the attachment is ordered. His application is made to the favor of
the court, and he cannot be heard until his contempt be purged.
Gilbert For. Rom. 102; 1 Daniell, 655; Johnson v. Pinney,
1 Paige, 646."
In Brinkley v. Brinkley, 47 N. Y. 40, 49, after reviewing
the authorities, it was held that a court which has control of
its own proceedings, can refuse the benefit of them to the
party in contempt, when asked as a favor, and can prevent
him from taking any progressive proceedings against his
adversary, but it has no power to stay him in his proceedings
by motion or appeal, where the object is to rid himself of the
alleged contempt, or show that the order which he did not
obey was erroneous. While the order reviewed provided that
unless the defendant complied with a certain order his answer
,should be stricken out and the cause should proceed as though
there was no answer, the reviewing court held that the order
in this particular was conditional and not final and absolute,
and was, therefore, not appealable.
However, in the case of Walker v. Walker, 82 N. Y. 260,
the Court of Appeals of New York declared that the rule
was broader than that laid down in Brinkley v. Brinkley,
and maintained also that it had been enforced with much rigor
by the English courts, and concluded its consideration of the
subject by saying: "That there has long been exerted by the
Court of Chancery in England the power to refuse to hear
the defendant when he was in contempt of the court by dis,obeying its orders, and that that power was in the courts of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

chancery of this country." The expression "the power to
refuse to hear the defendant" was manifestly intended to be
understood as meaning that a court of equity might disregard
any answer lawfully filed by the defendant and proceed to
adjudicate upon the claim of the adversary party as though
in contempt for want of answer. In the case before the court
the answer of a defendant in a divorce suit had been stricken
from the files for failure to obey an order to pay alimony and
counsel fees, though a decree was not granted as a matter of
course, but a reference had been directed to take proof of the
facts stated in the complaint. Immediately after stating that
the rule was broader than that laid down in the Brinkley
case, the learned judge who delivered the opinion of the
court said (p. 262):
"Chief Baron Gilbert lays it down in his Forum Romanum
(p. 33) that 'if the defendant appeared before the secundum decretum, he was liable to a mulct, for he could not be
heard in the cause till he had cleared his contempt.'
It is suggested in Cooper's Cases (temp. Cott. 209) that this is
merely a statement of the practice according to the canon law.
But the Chief Baron says at another place (p. 71) that ' the
answer will not be received without clearing his contempt';
and at another (p. 211): 'So it is where a man hath a bill
depending in court and falls under the displeasure of the
court and is ordered to stand committed. Here, when his
cause is called, if the other side insist that he hath not cleared
his contempt, nor actually surrendered his body to the warden
of the Fleet, he must do both these things before his cause
can be proceeded in....
The statement in the opinion as to the practice of the Court
of Chancery in England does not, as we have shown, accord
with the authorities, and it is equally clear that the citation
from the work of Baron Gilbert does not justify the conclusion for which it was cited. This is abundantly shown by
the citations we have made from the work of Baron Gilbert,
confirmed by an analysis of the passages quoted. Thus the
extract from page 33 is from a chapter which is devoted to
a comparison of the practice under the civil and canon law

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

with that of the English Court of Chancery in the particular
of compelling an appearance and answer by a defendant to a
bill, and the particular extract cited was a statement of the
canon law. The secundum decretum or second decree was
the last step in the process employed to compel an appearance in the cause, and only issued at a time when the defendant was in default and could not file his answer except by
leave of the court.
So, the statement that "the answer will not be received
without clearing his contempt" was made in the course of a
consideration of the various processes that follow the filing of
the bill, designed to secure an appearance and answer of the
defendant. The author had previously observed that where
an attachment by proclamation (one of the steps in the process
to compel an appearance and answer) had issued the defendant
could not, as of course, purge his contempt by a mere tender,
and had also remarked that by the very fact of an attachment
he was required to answer, and also clear his contempt at the
same time, adding:
"But the usual way is not to take the penalty, which is no
more than for the clearing his contempt, till he hath answered.
For when the penal sum is received, the defendant may reasonably say that the fault is purged, and so there would be no
sufficient foundation to retain the party or carry on the process, in case he will not answer; and, therefore, the usual way
is for the plaintiff to insist that the defendant should answer;
but the answer will not be received without clearing his contempts."
The case spoken of was one where the defendant was in
actual custody, liable to be coerced into paying the costs of
the contempt.
The extract from page 211 had reference to the case of t
ylintijf, and was in effect merely a declaration that the court
might stay the proceedings in the cause until the contempt
was purged.
Indeed, there is nowhere in the Forum Romanum anything
suggestive of the existence of a practice in the English Court
of Chancery in accord with the power which the New York

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

court .mistakenly considered as always exercised by that tribunal.
It needs, however, no critical review of the passage from
Baron Gilbert cited by the New York court to establish that
the construction put upon it was a mistaken one, for Baron
Gilbert leaves no doubt in another passage not cited by the
New York court that the opinion attributed to hiii by the
New York court was unfounded. At page 102 of the Forum
Romanum, speaking of the steps usually taken to compel, a
further answer where the answer of a defendant had been
held insufficient, he said:
"And upon this head it is to be observed, as a general rule,
that the contemner who is in contempt is never to be
heard, by motion or otherwise, till he hath cleared his contempt and paid the costs. As, for example, if he comes to
move for anything, or desires any favor of the court, if the
other side says or insists he is in contempt, though it is but
an attachment for want of an answer, which, if not executed,
is only ten shillings, and if executed, is twelve shillings and
six pence, yet even in this case he is not entitled to be heard
till he hath paid these costs (however small they are). He
must first pay them to the party or his clerk in court, and
produce a receipt for them in open court, before he can be
heard; and this is always allowed as a good cause against
hearing of the contemner in any case whatsoever."
The English authorities cited by the New York court to
support its conclusion are: Maynard v. Pomfret, Vowles v.
Young, _[Jeyn v. Ileyn, Clark v. Dew, Anon. v. Lord Gort, and
Valle v. O'Reilly, supra. The review we have made of these
cases does not, as we have already stated, induce us to regard
them as sustaining the doctrine of the New York decision.
Nor is the opinion expressed in the Walker case supported
by the American cases to which reference is made therein,
viz.: Mussina v. Bartlett, 17 Alabama (8 Porter), 277; Rutherford v. Metcalf, 5 Hayw. (Tenn.) 58, 61; and Saylor v. Mockbie,
9 Iowa, 209, 212.
Mussina v. Bartlett, decided in 1839', was a case where the
defendant was in default for answer, and he was held inca-

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

pacitated thereby from appearing to contest the complainant's
demand before the clerk and master to whom after decree
pro confesso the bill had been referred to take an account.
Rutherford v. Metcalf, 5 Hayw. (Tenn.) 58, 61, was a

case where, on a hearing upon a proceeding to punish for
breach of an injunction, an answer of one of the defendants
in the cause, not a party to the contempt proceeding, was
offered, but the court refused to receive it, on the ground that
whether the injunction was rightfully issued or not, the defendant should submit to it until he had procured a dissolution of
the injunction. In the course of the opinion, in stating the
practice upon proceedings for contempt, the court said though the question was not before it for decision - that
after a party had been found guilty of contempt, "le must
stand committed and pay the costs; and then he cannot be
heard in the principal cause until he has yielded obedience to
the injunction." The authority for the latter statement were
the passages in Practical Register and Comyn's Digest, already alluded to.
Saylor v. 3Afockbie was decided in 1859, and was a case
where the application was to the favor of the court. The
defendant, being in default/or answer, also violated an injunc-

tion which had been granted in the cause, and, on an attachment being issued, he was brought into court, filed his answer
to the bill and to the rule granted against him, and moved to
dissolve the injunction. The court, after observing that
throughout the whole of the proceedings complained of the
defendant was in default, held that until he had purged himself of the contempt in disobeying the rule of the court, the
court might well refuse to receive his answer to the bill (which
was only entitled to be filed as a matter of favor) or consider

the matters therein set up by way of excuse for his refusal to
obey the order.
It is then manifest that the decision in Walker v. Walker
finds no support in the authorities upon which it is based.
It was accepted, however, without any review of the authorities in Pickett v. Ferguson, 45 Arkansas, 177, 191, (1885) as

correctly stating the law on the subject, though both the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

trial court and the reviewing court shrank from enforcing the
doctrine to its logical consequences, as though the complaint
of a plaintiff in contempt was removed from the files, and he
was denied the right to answer a cross bill, in determining
the questions presented by the cross bill, the trial court considered the evidence which had been taken in the case before
it and in another cause, supposed to embody all the material
facts upon which the rights of the parties depended. The
reviewing court also held that if the complainant below had
been prejudiced by the action of the trial court, the record
furnished the means of correcting the error, and after a consideration of the whole record, ordered a personal judgment
in favor of the complainant for a large amount.
Hazard v. Durant,11 R. I. 195, has in one instance been
referred to as a case where the court was much perplexed
over the proper decision of a like question, and had declined
to definitely decide it. That case was one where a party in
contempt for violating an injunction was also in default for
answer, and a decree pro confesso had been taken. He was,
however, held entitled to take such steps in the cause as were
matters of strict right; and while refusing an application of
the petitioner to be let in to defend, the reviewing court held
that it did not follow that the suit was to be abandoned to
the plaintiffs, and, as the defendant denied the trutL of the
averments in the bill, the question was reserved as to whbther
a decree ought to be entered against the defendant, without
first referring the case to a master "to ascertain the truth. of
the allegations, so that our minds and consciences may be satisfled upon the point." This branch of the case having been
subsequently argued, the court rendered an opinion, from
which we extract, as follows (12 R. I. 99):
"The defendant entreats for leave to answer, denying them
[the averments of the bill].....
Shall we then proceed as
if they were true, because the defendant, being in contempt,
and unable to relieve himself, cannot make his denial effectual
by answer or defence? The question is novel; but we think
it admits of but one solution. The court must be careful not
to become an instrument of injustice, even against a person

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

who has forfeited all claims upon its favor. We decide, therefore, that the cause must go to a master to inquire into the
truth of the inculpating allegations of the bill, and if he finds
them true to any extent, to take the account accordingly, making, for the sake of dispatch, one report of the entire matter.
We also decide that in making the inquiry, the master shall
not be confined to testimony furnished by the complainants,
but shall notify Durant, so that he may be present, if he sees
fit, to aid the inquiry, and to testify himself, and furnish the
testimony of others."
Nor is there force in the contention that Allen v. Georgia,
166 U. S. 138, impliedly sustains the validity of the authority
exercised by the court of the District of Columbia in the matter now under consideration. In the Allen case the accused
had been regularly tried and convicted, and the error complained of was that the Georgia Supreme Court had violated
the Constitution of the United States in refusing to hear his
appeal because he had fled from justice. In affirming the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia, the court called
attention to the distinction between the inherent right of
defence secured by the due process of law clause of the Constitution and the mere grace or favor giving authority to
review a judgment by way of error or appeal. It said
(p. 140):
"Without attempting to define exactly in what due process of
law consists, it is sufficient to say that, if the Supreme Court
of a State has acted in consonance with the constitutional laws
of a State and its own procedure it could only be in very exceptional circumstances that this court would feel justified in saying that there had been a failure of due legal process. We
might ourselves have pursued a different course in this case,
but that is not the test. The plaintiff in error must have
been deprived of one of those fundamental rights, the observance of which'is indispensable to the liberty of the citizen, to
justify our interference."
The same view had been previously announced in McKane
V. Durston, 153 U. S. 684, 687, where the court said:
"An appeal from a judgment of conviction is not a matter

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of absolute right, independently of constitutional or statutory
provisions allowing such appeal. A review by an appellate
court of the final judgment in a criminal case, however grave
the offence of which the accused is convicted, was not at common law and is not now a necessary element of due process of
law. It is wholly within the discretion of the State to allow
or not to allow such a review. A citation of authorities upon
the point is unnecessary."
Whether in the exercise of its power to punish for a contempt a court would be justified in refusing to permit one in
contempt from availing himself of a right granted by statute,
where the refusal did not involve the fundamental right of
one summoned in a cause to be heard in his defence, and
where the one in contempt was an actor invoking the right
allowed by statute, is a question not involved in this suit.
The right which was here denied by rejecting the answer and
taking the bill for confessed because of the contempt involved
an essential element of due process of law, and our opinion is
therefore exclusively confined to the case before us.
The demonstration of the unsoundness of the contention
that courts of equity have claimed and exercised the power to
:suppress an answer and thereupon render a decree pro confesso,
which results from the foregoing review of the authorities, is
strengthened by the reflection that if such power obtained,
then the ancient common law doctrine of "outlawry," and
that of the continental systems as to "civil death," would be
a part of the chancery law, a theory which could not be admitted without violating the rudimentary conceptions of the
fundamental rights of the citizen.
It being therefore clear that the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia did not possess the power to disregard
an answer which was in all respects sufficient and had been
regularly filed, and to ignore the proof taken in its support,
the only question remaining is whether a judgment based upon
the exercise of such an assumed power is void for want of
jurisdiction, and may therefore be collaterally attacked. It
cannot be doubted that where a judgment is rendered without
the issuance and service of summons against a party who did

HOVEY v. ELLIOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

not enter an appearance, the court rendering it is without
jurisdiction to do so, and it can be assailed as void whenever
presented as a muniment of right against another. Looking
at the substance and not the form of the decree in the case of
Hovey v. McDonald, upon which the rights of the plaintiff in
error depend, it is plain that the judgment was substantially
one without a hearing, for of what efficacy or avail was the
summons to appear when the court which issued the summons
rendered its judgment upon the theory that the summons was
inefficacious, and that the defendant had no right either to
appear or to be heard in his defence? As said by this court.
in Adams v. Postal Telegraph Cable Co. 155 U. S. 689, 698:
"The substance and not the shadow determines the validity bf
the exercise of the power.."
The case at bar is within the principle of the decision in
Windsor v. McVeigh, supra. It is also controlled by the decision in Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254. In that case, the
scope and objeef of a suit in a court of the State of New York
- a judgment recovered in which was sought to be enforced in
a court of the State of New Jersey -was the subjection of
a fund in the hands of the superintendent of the insurance
department of the State of New York to the satisfaction of
claims against a New York insurance company which had
become amalgamated with a INew Jersey corporation which
had passed into the hands of a receiver. The New York
company and the New Jersey company and its ancillary receiver in the State of New York, one Parker, were
made parties defendant. There was no actual appearance
by Parker or the New Jersey company subsequent to the
'filing of their answer. Parker took issue merely upon the
allegations of the petition, and the cause proceeded to trial
upon such issue before a referee. Upon the report of the
latter, a decree was entered which finally disposed of the
fund. Paragraph 8 of that decree contained the following
reservation:
"And, it is further ordered that either party to this action
or any person interested in the subject-matter thereof have
liberty to apply for further directions on the foot of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

decree, and the question of the indebtedness of Joel Parker,
as receiver of the New Jersey Life Insurance Company, and
the former superintendent, John F. Smyth, and William
McDermott and Messrs. Harris and Rudd, reported by the
referee Samuel Prentiss, be reserved."
Subsequently to the entry of the decree just referred to, on
notice to the attorney who had represented Parker, a judgment
was entered in favor of plaintiffs against the receiver Parker
and the New Jersey company for more than a million of dollars. This was the judgment which was sought to be enforced
in New Jersey against the assets in the hands of the receiver in
that State. The courts of New Jersey decided that the judgnient was void, and this court affirmed such decision on the
ground that the decree passed upon questions not at issue in
the cause, and was rendered against a party who had taken
no actual part in the litigation subsequent to the filing of his
answer. There is no distinction in principle between determining a cause upon issues not raised by the pleadings in the
actual absence of the party, and rendering a decree by refusing to permit a defendant to be heard in his defence or to consider the merits of a sufficient defence, and, indeed, by striking
the pleading containing such defence from the files.
As a consequence of the foregoing views, we conclude that
the Court of Appeals of New York did not err in refusing to
give effect to the judgment in question as against a member
of the firm of Riggs & Company, as in the courts of the District of Columbia the decree in question was not entitled to be
regarded as valid as to them. Whether since the rendition of
the judgment for any cause, such as by reason of active steps
taken by McDonald and White, in the courts of New York,
assailing the validity of the judgment in question, those
parties are now estopped from asserting the invalidity of the
decree (Lawrence v. N'elson, 143 U. S. 215, 223, and cases there
cited), we need not determine. It is sufficient for the purposes
of the case now before us to say that, as the record contains
no proof of facts constituting an estoppel as to Riggs & Company, the judgment is not binding upon them.
From the fact, however, that we rest our decision on the

PARSONS v. CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y.

447

Statement of the Case.

want of power in the courts of the District of Columbia to
suppress an answer of parties defendant, and after so doing to
render a decreepTro confesso as in case of default for want of
an answer, we must not be considered as implying that we
think the purchasers of the bonds under the circumstances disclosed by the record took them subject in any way to the lis
pendens created between the actual parties to the controversy
arising from the suit, or that such purchasers were or could
be in any way bound by the result of that litigation.
Judgment afirmed.

PARSONS v. CHICAGO AND NORTHWESTERN
RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 198. Argued March 8, 9, 1897.- Decided May 24, 189T.

The right of a shipper of goods over a railway, who pays to the railroad
company reasonable rates for the transportation of the goods to the place
of destination, to recover from such company the excess of such payment
over the rates charged to shippers of similar goods to the same destination
from another place of shipment of the same or greater distance from it,
is a right growing out of the interstate commerce act; and, being in the
nature of a penalty, can be enforced only by strict proof, showing clearly
and directly the violations complained of.
The portion of a through rate received by one of several railway-companies
transporting the goods as interstate commerce, may be less'than its local
rate.
The only right of recovery given by the interstate commerce act to the
individual, is to the ." person or persons injured thereby for the full
amount of damages sustained in consequence of any of the violations of
the provisions of this act" ; and before any party can recover under the
act, he must show, not merely the wrong of the carrier, but that that
wrong has operated to his injury.

THIs was an action commenced by the plaintiff in error,
plaintiff below, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Iowa to recover of the defendant
fifteen hundred and fifty dollars on account of alleged vio-

