OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Cqurt.

In re HALL, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 17.

Original.

Submitted. April 12, 1897.-Decided May 10, 1897.

A judgment in the Court of Claims against the District of Columbia recovered under the act of February 13, 1895, c. 87, was reversed in.this court
because interest on the original claim had been improperly allowed, and
the case was remanded to that court for further 1proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this court. The mandate of this court was
filed in that court, and application was made for judgment in accordance
with the opinion of this court, waiving interest. Pending the decision
upon this application, the said act of February 13, 1895, autllorizing the
original judgment was repealed by Congress, and the Court of Claims
declined to enter judgment as prayed for. The plaintiff thereupon made
application to this court for a mandamus, to require the Court of Claims
to enter judgment as requested. leld, that the effect of the repealing act
was to take away the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to proceed
further in any case founded upon the repealed act; but that this court
did not intimate by this decision that that court would not have jurisdiction to entertain and grant a motion on the part of the petitioner to reinstate the original judgment.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Edwin Forrest for petitioner.

iMr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge opposing.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an original application to this court for a writ of
mandamus to tile judges of the Court of Claims commanding
them to cause to be entered a judgment in favor of petitioner
and against the District of Columbia for the'sum of $8644.19,
as of March 2, 1897, the date of the filing of a mandate from
this court with the Court of Claims in the case of District of
Columbia v. flall. The record now before us gives the history of that case since it was decided by this court in February last.
The facts in the original litigation out of which this applica-

IN RE HALL, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

tion grows are to be found in the report of the cases of District of Columbia v. fall, 165 U. S. 340, and District of
Columbia v. Johnson, 165 U. S. 330. It appears therein
that this petitioner, under the provisions of the act of Congress approved February 13, 1895, had recovered a judgment
in the Court of Claims, which was entered June 22, 1896,
against the District of Columbia, for the above-named sum
of $8644.19, with a declaration contained in the judgment
that such amount became due and payable on the 1st of January, 1877, the effect of which was to grant interest thereon
from the last-named date. Upon appeal this court determined that the Court of Claims erred in the matter of granting interest, and therefore the judgment of that court was
reversed and the cause remanded. On the 1st day of March,
1897, the mandate from this court was issued, in which it was
"ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment of
said Court of Claims in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
reversed. And it is further ordered that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to said Court of Claims for
further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this
court." The mandate was filed with the Court of Claims on
the 2d day of March, 1897, and on the opening of the court
on that day application was made for judgment in accordance
with the mandate and the opinion of this court, the petitioner
waiving any interest on the judgment. This motion was consented to by the attorney representing the District of Columbia, but the Court of Claims refused to immediately grant the
motion, and soon thereafter adjourned to the 8th of March.
On the 15th of March the court entered an order declining
to take any further proceedings in any suits based on the act
of Congress, among them being the petitioner's claim, for the
reason that the act had been repealed. The repealing act
was enacted one day after the filing of the mandate in this
case in the Court of Claims and the making of the motion by
the petitioner for judgment.
The judges of the Court of Claims have made return to the
order to show cause why the mandamus should not issue, and
in that return they state:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"That on the 2d day of March, 1897, that not being a
motion day according to the practice of said court, was presented in open court the mandate of the Supreme Court
reversing the judgment in favor of Joseph T. H. Hall, which
is described and set forth in the petition, together with a
motion for entry of judgment for the sum of $8664.19; that
said motion was presented upon a day when the court was
engaged in the regular trial of cases, and according to the
practice of the court was received without argument and
taken under advisement for decision thereafter; that at or
about the same time the attention of the court was called
to the pendency of the various motions for new trial from
the numerous judgments, embodying the same characteristics
which had been held to be erroneous by the Supreme Court,
and on the said 2d day of March, 1897, mandates from the
Supreme Court reversing the three other judgments appealed
from as aforesaid and heard together with that of Joseph
T. H. Hall, and in the same form as the mandate set forth
in the petition, were filed.
"That on the said 2d day of March, 1897, and before the court
in the ordinary course of its business had been able to take
up for consideration the motion for judgment in favor of said
petitioner, or to examine the opinion of the Supreme Court,
referred to in the mandate and set forth in the petition, the
court adjourned to the 8th day of March, and while so
adjourned, Congress enacted and the President approved the
act of March 3, 1897, entitled 'An act making appropriations to provide for the expenses of the District of Cblumbia
for. the fiscal year ending June 30, 1898, and for other purposes,' which said act contained, amongst other things, the
following provision: 'That the act approved February thirteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, entitled "An act
to amend an act, entitled 'An act to provide for the settlement of all outstanding claims against the District of Columbia, and conferring jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims to
hear the same, and for other purposes,' approved June sixteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty," be and the same is
hereby repealed, and all proceedings pending shall be vacated

IN

RE HALL, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

and no judgment heretofore rendered in pursuance of said
act shall be paid.'
"That at the time of the passage of said act the judgment
in favor of the petitioner, as also of said three other appellants, had been by the action of the Supreme Court reversed
and set aside. The judges of the Court of Claims, upon
conference and due consideration, reached the conclusion
that said act of Congress had taken away the power of th3
court to render judgment or take any step or proceeding in
the said case, or in any of the other cases pending, or with
reference to any of the judgments theretofore rendered under
and'by virtue of the jurisdiction conferred by said act of February 13, 1895; wherefore on the 15th day of March, 1897,
that being the first motion day after the court resumed its
sittings on the 8th of March, and the regular day upon which,
according to the practice of the Court of Claims, judgments
and decisions are rendered and entered, the said Court of
Claims made the order set forth on page 7 of the petition in
the following words, to wit:
" 'The act of 13 February, 1895, 28 Stat. 664, having been
repealed by Congress, it is ordered in all suits brought under
or subsequent to said act that motions for new trial, applications for judgments and all other papers in such suits be
restored to and retained upon the files of the court without
further proceedings being had.'"
The petitioner now insists that he has the legal right to a
judgment in the Court of Claims for the original sum of
$8644.19, because he says the judgment of that court originally awarding him that sum was not in effect wholly reversed
by this court, but only in part in regard to interest, and that
as to all other matters the judgment, under the opinion of this
court, substantially remained and was in full force on the 2d
day of March, at the time of the filing of the mandate and of
the making of his motion to the Court of Claims; he-thereiore
further insists that he was, when he made that motion, entitled at once to the judgment he asked for, and that if it had
then been given, he would have been enabled to obtain paymnent of the judgment prior to the repeal of the act upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

which the judgment was originally founded. He asks, therefore, that this court direct the Court of Claims to enter a
judgment nuncpro tune as of March 2, 1897.
In this case the judgment was, in form at least, absolutely
reversed and the case remanded to the Court of Claims for
further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this
court. Confessedly, further proceedings by virtue of the mandate and under the direction of the Court of Claims were
necessary to be taken before any judgment could be entered
in such court and thereafter enforced, and before any proceedings were taken by way of the entry of any judgment Congress interfered by repealing the statute. When the mandate
was filed in the Court of Claims and the motion made for
judgment, that court was engaged in the regular trial of
causes; it was not a motion day according to the practice of
the court, and the court received the mandate and heard the
request, and took the same under advisement for decision
thereafter. The court was not bound, upon the simple presentation of the mandate and the statement of counsel, even
if there were no opposition on the part of the attorney for
the District of Columbia, to immediately drop all other business and grant the motion; it had the right, and it was its
duty in the due and orderly progress of its work, to take the
motion into consideration if it thought it necessary, so that it
might examine the opinion and come to an intelligent conclusion as to what action was required of it for the purpose of
complying with the. terms of the mandate. The fact that the
court had already heard, of the decision of this court and had
casually seen the opinion, did not alter the case.
The effect of the passage of the repealing act was to take
away the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to proceed further
in those cases which were founded upon the act thus repealed.
This the Congress had powerto do. Merchants'Insurance (Co. v.
Ritchie, 5-Wall. 541, 544; Exparte Mo(Jardle,7 Wall. 506; Ex
parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 85; -Baltimore& Potomac Railroad v.
Grant, 98 U. S. 398; Gurnee v. Patrick County, 137 U. S. 141.
This court had just decided that the act of February 13,
1895, 28 Stat. 644, simply conferred a gratuity upon the per-

DAVIS v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Syllabus.

sons covered by its provisions; that there was no element of
a legal or an equitable claim in their favor against the municipal authorities of the District, but that the act provided for
a gift which was wholly without consideration. The repeal
of the act took away all jurisdiction in the Court of Claims
to proceed further, so far as concerned any rights founded
upon the act so repealed. If there had been no repeal, and
the Court of Claims had, after the filing of the mandate from
this court, proceeded to a new trial of the whole merits of the
original judgment, the case cited by the petitioner, Gaines v.
Rugg, 148 U. S. 228, might be in point. It does not touch the
case upon the facts here presented.
In this case, however, the record originally before us showed
that the petitioner had at one time obtained a judgment for
over a thousand dollars against the District of Columbia upon
a cause of action not founded upon the act of Congress just
repealed. This judgment had been vacated. We do not intimate by this decision that the Court of Claims would not have
jurisdiction to entertain and grant a motion on the part of
petitioner, if he should be so advised, to reinstate that original
judgment. That question is not before us, and we allude to it
simply for the purpose of stating that our decision herein
should not be taken as any expression of opinion adverse to
the granting of a motion such as is above mentioned.
The application for a writ of mandamus is
-Denied.

DAVIS v. MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT

OF SUFFOLK COUNTY,

MASSACIU-

SETTS.
No. 229. Argued and submitted March 25, 1897. - Decided May 10, 1897.

The ordinance of the city of Boston which provides that "no person shall,
in or upon any of the public grounds, make any public address," etc.,
" except in accordance with a permit from the mayor," is not in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States and the first section of the

Fourteenth Amendment thereof.

