OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

together for that purpose and applying to the governor of the
province, through whose action a city, villa or place was established. These municipalities appear to have been quasi
corporations, corporations sub modo, and their ayuntamientos
exercised political control over the pueblos and over surrounding country attached to their jurisdiction. The alcalde made
allotments subject to the orders of the ayuntamiento, and they
again were apparently subject to the provincial deputation or
an equivalent superior body. At all events, unallotted lands
were subject to the disposition of the government.
At the date of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, neither
these settlers nor this town could have demanded the legal
title to such lands of the former government, and the Court
of Private Land Claims was not empowered to pass the title
to either. 'It is for the political department to deal with the
equitable rights involved.
Tie result is that the decree in Morton v. United States ig
a/firmed, and the decree in United States v. Sandoval and
others is reversed, and the cause remanded that a decree
may be entered in conformity with this opinion; and it is
so ordered accordingly.

RIO ARRIBA LAND

AND CATTLE
UNITED STATES.

COMPANY v.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 195. Argued March 9, 10, 1897. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

In the grant which forms the subject of controversy in this case, the Span.
Ish governor did not intend to grant nearly 500,000 acres to the applicants, in common, and the alcalde did not so understand it, but delivered

juridical possession only of the various allotments made to petitioners
in severalty.

United States v. Sandoval, 167 U. S. 278 followed, that, as to all such unallotted
lands within exterior boundaries, where towns or communities were sought
to be formed, the title remained in the Government for such disposition
as it. might see proper to make.

RIO ARRIBA COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

299

Statement of the Case.
The fact that Congress may have confirmed similar grants cannot operate
to justify the Court of Private Land Claims in adjudication of a case not
coming within the terms of the law of its creation.

THis was a petition by the Rio Arriba Land and Cattle
Company filed in the Court of Private Land Claims for the
confirmation of what was commonly called the Cafion de
Chama Grant, situated in Rio Arriba County, New Mexico,
and alleged to contain 472,763.95 acres.
It appeared that in 1806 a petition was addressed to the
governor of the Territory, Alencaster, as follows:
"I, Francisco Salazar, ensign in the militia of Abiquiu, together with my brothers (hermanos) and twenty-eight other
poor and needy citizens, appear before your excellency (and
state), that' I have examined a tract of land, unappropriated
and unsettled, called the Chama River Caion, situated about
four leagues distant from this place, and for which we
petition to your excellency in the name of the King and
without injury to any third party, as we find ourselves without any land wherefrom to support ourselves, owing to the
decease of our mother at the rancho off of which she supported
us, and as the latter has this day been divided among nine
heirs residing in other jurisdictions we find ourselves absolutely deprived of any place to plant and to enable us to pay
tithes and first fruits.
"We therefore humbly ask and pray your excellency to heed
this our petition, and we trust from the charitable heart of
your excellency you will consider the same favorably, and we
protest our petition not to be made in dissimulation and whatever be necessary, etc."
This petition was referred, July 6, 1806, by the governor to
the alcalde in these words:
"The alcalde will report fully on this petition, giving the
extent of the land in question, its boundaries, the proportion
of irrigable land, and when he comes to say how many settlers
it will accommodate and the application being made public he
will report whether any damage may result to any of the
surrounding settlers, either in regard to pasturage, water or
watering places, and he will make personal examination re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

specting all these matters, to the end that action may be had in
accordance with his report and subsequent questions avoided."
On July 14, 1806, the alcalde made the following report:
"I , Manuel Garcia de la Mora,. chief alcalde, in obedience
to the foregoing decree, proceeded personally to visit and examine the spot (rio) called the Chama River cafion, over all
of which I passed with the greatest care and observation,
as well the land itself as the places for taking out the heads
of irrigating canals and the pastures and watering places,
and I report that for pastures without fields and without any
resulting damage there is one league from the last grant
(that of the Martinezes) to the side on which the sun rises, and
that thence to the western boundary, which divides the said
Chama River cafion from the Gallina River, there'are about
two leagues, somewhat more or less, cultivable land, and the
town being placed in the centre, the thirty-one families applying for it may be accommodated and land enough remain for
the increase they may have in the way of children and sons
in law (hijos y llernos), and the section of the country is a
very desirable one, and the settlers may therefore proceed with
their buildings, and for the other two boundaries there is
assigned them on the horth and on the south one league for
pastures, for on these two sides no injury can result, as there
is neither a settlement or grant now made or that might be
made, and the heads of acequias along the length of the planting land there are five or six of them.
"With all the foregoing I have fulfilled your excellency's
order. The same having been read faithfully and quite audibly to all the community, they replied that they had nothing
to represent in regard to said petition, and that no one of them
was injured, the land being uncultivated and unsettled, and
the said cafion is distant from Abiquiu about five leagues."
On August 1, 1806, Governor Alencaster decreed:
"In pursuance of the foregoing report, that the said alcalde
may proceed to the assignment of twenty-six lots of land
capable of being planted with the equivalent of three cuartillas of wheat, one ditto or three almudes of corn, another three
of beans, and of having erected on each of them alsmall house

RIO ARRIBA COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

301

Statement of the Case.

with a garden, and of these lots two of them adjoining one
another will. be assigned to the Ensign Francisco Salazar and
the remaining twenty-four to the individuals who, upon report
made by the said alcalde, may obtain my decree that they be
assigned lands, the said assignments to be made in such manner
that lands may remain unassigned equally on the four sides,
or at least on two of them, so that new assignments may be
made in the future, and the lines bounding with the adjoining
lands to be described in order that the rights to pastures and
watering places may clearly appear; to the said parcel of lots
held by the twenty-five settlers will be given the name 'San
Joaquin del Rio de Chama"; and the said alcalde, having
received the said twenty-four titles to settlers, will proceed
to deliver and distribute, give possession, and make grant, in
the name of His Majesty, to the twenty-four settlers aforesaid, and the said Ensign Salazar, being appointed justice and
all the foregoing provisions being verified, the granting document will be remitted to me to be legalized as required, the
proper duplicates (testimonios) to be given the parties interested and then the original to be returned, to be duly deposited among the archives of this office."
On March 1, 1808, the alcalde made this report:
"I, Manuel Garcia de la Mora, chief alcalde of the town of
La Canada, proceeded to the rancho of San Joaquin, and in
view of and in obedience to the foregoing decree of Lieutenant Colonel Joaquin del Real Alencaster, governor of this
royal province, I, said chief alcalde, proceeded to the Chama
River cafion, called the San Joaquin cafion, accompanied by
the twenty-five settlers; and there appearing also fourteen
other citizens without land, and his excellency having given
me verbal instructions to the effect that should other persons
come forward to increase the settlement land should also be
assigned to them with the same rights as the others enjoy,
and all the settlers being assembled, I proceeded with the
distribution of the land to them, as appears from the quantities of land they received, noted in the list and certified by
me, and into the possession of which I placed them, taking
them by the hand and leading each settler over his own piece

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

of land and placing him in possession in the name of the King,
whom may God preserve; and they ran joyfully over the
land, plucking up weeds and casting stones and shouting aloud
'Long live the King that protects and helps us!' with which
they remain in possession, naming the town whose site I
pointed out to them, San Joaquin del Rio de Chama, and with
which I have executed the foregoing decree and all of which
authenticated with two instrumental witnesses, designating
to the settlers as boundaries - on the north, the Ceballa valley; on the south, the Capulin; on the east, the boundary
of the Martinezes; and on the west, the Little White hill,
(segita blanca), for their pastures and watering places, and
with a view to the coming of other settlers and the increase
of families and descendants; all of which I signed with two
instrumental witnesses and with the witnesses in my attendance, with whom I act by appointment for lack of a royal or
public notary, there being none of any kind in this royal province; to which I certify."
Then followed the specific distribution of so many varas to
each duly authenticated.
The record showed that these documents were produced
from private hands, afid it did not appear that they were ever
returned to the governor to be legalized, or authority given
for the execution of the various testimonios, and the delivery
thereof to the grantees, the original remaining in the office of
the public record as directed by the governor in his decree of
August 1, 1806; nor did it appear that these various testimonios were issued and the original returned.
In 1832, one Juan de Jesus de Chacon, for himself and
Mateo Garcia and Antonio Duran, presented a petition to the
governor, asking that all the privileges allowed by law be
permitted them, stating that two or three years before the
alcalde Ortiz had placed them in possession of lands on the
Gallina River; but that the present alcalde, Gallego, was
attempting to dispossess them "in a manner most strange,"
considering that the land had been given to petitioners by a
competent judge, and that they had cultivated it for two consecutive years and raised all the crops within their means;

RIO ARRIBA COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

303

Statement of the Case.

and they applied to the governor that he would direct the
alcalde to leave them at liberty to make such use as might
appear proper of the lands lawfully belonging to them.
On April 2, 1832, the governor referred this petition to the
asesor general, the Licenciado Barreiro. On the same day
Barreiro made his report, stating that he had previously notified the alcalde of Abiquiu that he could not pass upon the
rights of the parties on a simple communication, and recommending that the petitioners form an expediente of the whole
matter and then refer the case to him; also directing, in regard to the possession given by Alcalde Ortiz* that nothing
should be done until final adjudication, whereupon the governor made the following order:
"In order that the responsibility of the constitutional alcalde
of Abiquiu may be covered, that the administration of justice
may not experience delays prejudicial to the parties, and that
the property may not be prejudiced, the said alcalde will proceed in conformity with the decision of the attorney general
and will form an expediente of the whole and with new reference will decide as to what he may deem to be just, but in the
meantime will respect the land in question, inasmuch as up to
the present time the holders of it are not agreed as to the nullity of their possession, and consequently it will form a part of
their property, as in such matters the regular formalities are
indispensable, and without them the alcaldes cannot decide
with the certainty required by the proper administration of
justice."
On April 6, the alcalde Gallego reported that having examined the question between the parties he had directed that a
suit of conciliation with two arbitrators named by the parties
in litigation be brought in accordance with article No. 155;
and he found that the alcalde not having carried out the will
of Governor Alencaster by properly certifying the grant document and giving certified copies to the parties in interest and
returning the original to the capital to be placed in the archives, for which omission and others, he adjudged the original possession not to be legal, and to be without right until
confirmed by the governor. He also reported as to the ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

tion of alcalde Ortiz that it was not legal, possession having
been given by him without the production of any document
approved by the governor, or any approval or certification of
petition, as is usual, nor the proper proceedings taken, which
was the province of the most excellent territorial deputation,
with report of the proper ayuntamiento on the petition; and
that a new possession must be given.
This report was returned by Barreiro, who required the
alcalde to make up an expediente as originally directed. The
alcalde summoned the parties, and ,their answers, replies and
rejoinders were set forth at length. Salazar and his associates insisted that the possession of the lands at the Cafion de
San Joaquin del Rio de Chama and the decree of Governor
Alencaster were legal, but that the action of the Alcalde
Ortiz was wholly without right. On these papers the asesor
general made his report as follows:
"The statements of the parties having been examined, the
question is made clear, and it appears that the possession
given by the alcalde Jos6 Maria Ortiz is of no value because,
even if he were an authority, he was not competent to give
and partition lands, because this is an exclusive attribute of
the territorial deputation.
" Under date of the 6th of February, I decided that with
regard to the possession given by Ortiz that nothing should
be done until I had resolved upon what I considered proper,
but this was not in any way intended to approve the proceedings of the alcalde.
"Finally, I now say that the possession given at the Caion
de San Joaquin del Rio de Chama is legal because, even if
there be any requisite lacking, it is not an essential requisite,
but one of pure formality. With respect to the possession
given, I am of the opinion that the alcalde Ortiz gave it
without power and that it should be annulled, the right
remaining with the parties aggrieved to petition the most
excellent deputation to give them a good title, which will
place- them legally in possession of the lands which they
may desire to possess, with the remark that the annullment
must not be understood to extend to the possession which

RI0 ARRIBA COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

305

Opinion of the Court.

the children of the old settlers may hold, because these
should come in for their part, as is expressed in the grant
itself, but not others who are strangers."
On the 10th of May, 1832, Gallego made a partition of
lands among eighteen interested parties, assigning to them
lots of land of fifty varas each, and of uncultivated land of
one hundred varas each.
The record did not show that the proceedings before the
asesor general or his, action and opinion were returned to
or in any way approved by the governor, or the 'territorial
deputation; nor that the partition and assignment by the
alcalde were ever reported and approved; nor under what
authority he acted.
There was considerable controversy as to the west boundary of the tract, but it was not contended that the proceedings of 1832 extended the area of the lands intended to be
granted by Governor Alencaster in 1806.
Certain records of suits in 1880 and 1887 in the District
Court of Arriba County, for the purpose of quieting the
title and a partition of said lands, as between individual
claimants, were set forth in the record.
The Court of Private Land Claims confirmed petitioner's
claim to the extent of the lands lying in the Cafion del Rio
de Chama, which were first actually apportioned among the
settlers, and no more; and the company appealed.
Mr.F. W. Claney for appellant.
Mr. Matthew G. Reynolds for appellees.
General was on his brief.
M

. CHIEF

JUSTICE FULLER,

Mr. Solicitor

after stating the case, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court.
Assuming, but without in any manner deciding, that Governor Alencaster had full power to make the grant in any
quantity and in any manner he saw proper, we think it clear
that he did not, and did not intend to, make a grant of nearly
voL. CLXVn-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

half a million of acres. to the original applicants, in common,
and that the alcalde did not so understand it, and did not
attempt to deliver juridical possession of such a tract, but
only of the various allotments that Were made to petitioners
in severalty. The petition simply mentioned a tract called
the Chama River Caion, and the governor directed the
alcalde to report on its extent and boundaries, the proportion
of irrigable land, and how many settlers it would accommodate. The alcalde reported that he had personally visited
the Chama River Cafion and passed over all the land with
the greatest care and observation, and he said:
"The town being placed in the centre, the thirty-one families applying for it may be accommodated and land enough
remain for the increase they may have in the way of children
and sons in law, and the section of the country is a very desirable one, and the settlers may therefore proceed with their
buildings, and for the other two boundaries there is assigned
them on the north and on the south one league for pastures,
for on these two sides no injury can result."
There is nothing in the terms of the grant to indicate that
the governor intended to place thirty-one persons in possession, with the exclusive right of property, of a grant twentyfive miles north to south, and thirty miles from east to west.
He says: "In pursuance of the foregoing report, the said
alcalde may proceed to the assignment of twenty-six lots of
land capable, of being planted with the equivalent of three
cuartillas of wheat, one ditto or three almudes of corn, another
three of beans, and of having erected on each of them a small
house with a garden." He directed that Salaza should have
two lots, and "the remaining twenty-four to the individuals
who, upon report made by the said alcalde, may obtain my
decree that they be assigned lands," etc., and that "to the
said parcel of lots held by the twenty-five settlers will be
given the name 'San Joaquin del Rio de Chama."' The
governor then continued thus:
"And the said alcalde, having received the said twenty-four
titles to settlers, will proceed to deliver and distribute, give
possession, and make grant, in the name of His Majesty, to

RIO ARRIBA COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

307

Opinion of the Court.

the twenty-four settlers aforesaid, and the said Ensign Salazar,
being appointed justice and all the foregoing provisions being
verified, the granting document will be remitted to me to be
legalized as required, the proper duplicates (testimonios) to be
given the parties interested and then the original to be returned, to be duly deposited among the archives of this office."
Eighteen months thereafter the so-called act of possession
was executed on a verbal order of the governor. The alcalde
recites :
"I proceeded with the distribution of the land to them, as
appears from the quantities of land they received, noted in
the list and certified by me, and into the possession of which
I placed them, taking them by the hand and leading each
settler over his own piece of land and placing him in possession in the name of the King, whom may God preserve; and
they ran joyfully over the land, plucking up weeds and casting
stones and shouting aloud, 'Long live the King that protects
and helps us!' with which they remain in possession, naming
the town whose site I pointed out to them, San Joaquin del
Rio de Chama, and with which I have executed the foregoing
decree and all of which authenticated with two instrumental
witnesses, designating to the settlers as boundaries -on
the
north, the Ceballa valley; on the south, the Capulin; on the
east, the boundaries of the Martinezes; and on the west,
the Little White hill (cejita blanca), for their pastures and
watering places, and with a view to the coining of other
settlers and the increase of families and descendants."
The alcalde does not state that he delivered the possession
to any one individual or to all these individuals in common,
of a large tract of land, but possession to each individual of
the land to which he was entitled and no.'more, and this was
accompanied by a description of the outboundarie within
which allotments could be made by the proper governmental
officials to persons that might come in thereafter.
Reference is indeed made to the use of the lands within the
outboundaries for pastures and watering places, but this did
not put them out of the class of public lands, and, whatever
equities might exist, no title was conveyed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

We have just held in United States v. Sandoval, ante, 278,
that as to all unallotted lands within exterior boundaries
where towns or communities were sought to be formed, as
in this instance, the title remained in the government for such
disposition as it might see proper to make.
Moreover, it is clear that the alcalde had no authority to
give possession of 475,000 acres of land to these thirty-one
petitioners, even if he could have done so if expressly authorized by direct order of the superior authorities, which is not
pretended.
We entirely agree with the holding of the Court of Private
Land Claims, as indicated by their decree, that the act of
possession, the alcalde's report and the governor's decree,
taken together, show that the only title which.was passed on
or intended to be passed on was to the various allotments
which were actually made. Nor can we concur in the view
that the result is affected by the proceedings had before the
asesor general in 1832. Whatever the judicial authority
of this officer, his action did not amount to an adjudication
that those who were living on the grant, or who went there
in 1806 or 1808, were the absolute and unconditional owners
of 475,000 acres of land, and, indeed, he seems to have
been of opinion, not only that the unallotted lands were
subject to disposition by the government, but that the proper
authority to make such disposition was the territorial deputation.
It is also said that Congress has repeatedly confirmed similar grants, but the fact that Congress may have thus disposed
of the public lands, in its discretion, cannot operate to justify
the Court of Private Land Claims in adjudication of a case
not coming within the terms of the law of its creation.
The proceedings in the District Court of Rio Arriba County
are nothing to the purpose, as the title of this property, under
the treaty of Guadalupe Ilidalgo and the act of Congress of
July 22, 1854, c. 103, 10 Stat. 308, was sub judice. The
claimants were then proceeding on their claim before the
surveyor general, and Congress, under that act, and an attempt to enforce that title and have it adjudicated by the

RIO ARRIBA COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

309

Opinion of the Court.

local courts, comes within the decision in Astiazaran v. Santa
Rita Land & Mining Go., 148 U. S. 80.
In that case it was said by Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the
opinion of the court: "Undoubtedly, private rights of property within the ceded territory were not affected by the
change of sovereignty and jurisdiction, and were entitled to
protection, whether the party had the full and absolute ownership of the land, or merely an equitable interest therein,
which required some further act of the government to vest in
him a perfect title. But the duty of providing the mode of
securing these rights, and of fulfilling the obligations imposed
upon the United States by the treaties, belonged to the political department of the government; and Congress might either
itself discharge that duty, or delegate it to the judicial department."
We have frequently reaffirmed the well-settled rule thus
announced, and perceive no reason for reviewing it, although
counsel suggests that we should do so as bearing on the jurisdiction of the territorial courts and in view of the so-called
protocol signed by the commissioners of this country to Mexico, at the time of the exchange of the ratifications of the
treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. A sufficient account of that
diplomatic incident will be found in President Polk's message
of February 8, 1849, Ex. Doe. 1H. Rep., Second Session, 30th
Cong., vol. 5; and in Mr. Secretary Bayard's letter of November 24, 1886, 3 Whart. Int. Dig., (2d ed.,) Appx. ยง 131, p. 885.
We did not feel called upon to discuss it in Astiazaran's case,
nor do we now in disposing of the case in hand, under the act
of March 3, 1891, on this record. Botiller v. Dominguez, 130
U. S.238.
Furthermore, it is conceded that these records were put in
evidence only to show that petitioner had succeeded, in part at
least, to the rights of the original grantees.
Decree afirmed.

