OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

assets of the Keystone Bank. The record fails to disclose
whether the receiver of the Keystone Bank has taken the collaterals and the balance of cash stated in the account. If he
has, the issues are settled, for plainly he cannot be permitted,
after having taken the collaterals or the dash balance, upon
the theory that the loan certificate account has been extinguished by imputing thereto the $28,808.10, and then in this
suit seek to recover by repudiating the credit.
We conclude, therefore, that the ends of justice require that
the result of the dealings between the parties should be ascertained and settled before a final decree passes, and that to
accomplish this purpose
It will be necessary to reverse both the decrees of the Circuit
Court of Appeals and of the Circuit Court, and to remand
the cause with directions to allow the parties if necessary
to reform their pleadings so that their rights may be determined in conformity with the foregoing opinion, the costs
of the Circuit Court of Appeals to be borne by the receiver,
those of this court by the appellees, those in the Circuit
Court to abide the final result.

CALIFORNIA BANK v. KENNEDY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 206. Argued and submitted March 10, 1897. -Decided May 24, 1897.

This court has jurisdiction to review a judgment of the highest court of a
State, holding a national bank liable, unddr a statute of the State, as a
shareholder in a state savings bank, when the answer sets up that the
stock of the savings bank was issued to it without authbrity of law,
and the motion for a new trial and the specifications of error Which
were the basis of appeal from the trial court to the Supreme Court of
the State assert such want of power under the laws of the United
States.
The statutes of the United -States relating to the organization and powers
of national banks prohibit such banks from purchasing or subscribing
to the stock of another corporation, although they may, as incidental

CALIFORNIA BANK v. KENNEDY.
Statement of the Case.
to the power to loan money on personal security, accept stock of another
corporation as collateral, and thus become subject to liability as other
stockholders.
The want of such authority may be set up by a bank to defeat an attempt
to enforce against it the liability of a stockholder.

T.His action was commenced. in the Superior Court of the
county of San Diego, State of California, against the California Savings Bank, and other defendants, including the
plaintiff in error. In each of five counts of an amended
petition a separate cause of action was stated, seeking a
judgment against the savings bank for the amount of a
particular deposit of money alleged to have been made with
it on a specified date, and a recovery was asked against the
other defendants upon the ground that they were stockholders
in the savings bank on the dates of the various deposits, and
in consequence liable under the laws of California to pay the
debts of the savings bank in proportion to the amount of
stock held and owned by each stockholder. A demurrer to
the amended complaint was overruled, and the California
National Bank answered, denying that it was ever the owner
of any stock in the savings bank, and alleging that if any
such stock was ever issued to it, it was issued without due
authority from the bank in its corporate capacity and without authority of law. The answer also averred that the bank
never acquired "in the usual course of business or now has
as owner any stock of the said defendant, the California
Savings Bank."
No issue was taken upon the truth of the averments in the
amended complaint as to the amount and date of the respective deposits which plaintiff alleged he had made in the
savings bank.
From the evidence it appeared that the savings bank began
business in January, 1890. Its stock consisted of twenty-five
hundred shares, and was originally distributed in five certificates, each for 500 shares, one certificate being made in the
name of each of the following persons: J. W. Collins, S. G.
Ilavermale, D. D. Dare, William Collier and H. F. Norcross.
Norcross had no official connection with the national bank,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

but Collier, Dare and Collins were, respectively, -president,
vice president and cashier of the national bank, and were
also, with Havermale, directors of the bank during the period
when the alleged transfers of stock were made to the bank.
The certificates in the names of Collier and Norcross were
never delivered, and when subsequently cancelled conthined
no indorsement. In the stead of those certificates, however,
on September 10, 1890, three certificates, aggregating 990
shares, were issued in the name of J. W. Collins, cashier, and
two certificates, each for five shares, were issued to Collier
.and Norcross, respectively. On January 2, 1891, the three
certificates for 990 shares in the name of Collins, cashier,
were surrendered, and a single certificate for that number
of shares was issued in the name of the California National
Bank.
In December, 1890, and January, 1891, five per cent dividends were declared and paid on the stock of the savings
bank. The amount of each dividend received by the California National Bank was $750. No direct evidence was
introduced accounting for these payments having been made
on the basis of an ownership of 1500 shares, when the bank

,was sought to be held liable for and appeared to be the
holder of but 990 shares, put in its name as above stated.
Both the savings bank and the national bank became insolvent; the former suspending November 12, 1891, while the
receiver of the national bank qualified December 29, 1891.
The cause was tried by the court without a jury, and by
findings of fact and conclusions of law rested thereon the
court sustained the averments of the complaint, adjudged the
national bank to be the holder of 990 shares of the stock of
the savings bank, and responsible to the creditors of the savings bank in that proportion. Judgment was entered against
the savings bank for $47,497.75, and against the national bank
for $18,507.52, a payment to the savings bank, however, to be
a satisfaction of the judgment against the national bank.
Both at the hearing, by objection to the introduction in evidence of the certificate of stock, and in a statement filed with
the motion for a new trial, the point was made that the issue

CALIFORNIA BANK v. KENNEDY.
Opinion of the Court.

of the stock to the bank was void because not shown to have
been acqaired pursuant to authority of its board of directors,
and because the stock was not taken in the ordinary course
of the business of the bank as security for the payment of a
debt or otherwise. In addition, by the first, second and third
specifications of errors of law occurring at the trial it was
specially stated that error had been committed in admitting
the certificate in evidence and holding the national bank liable
-substantially the same language being employed in each
specification- because the national bank, a corporation under
the banking laws of the United States, could "not in law become a stockholder or incorporator in any other corporation."
The motion for a new trial was overruled, and an appeal was
taken to the Supreme Court of the State, by which court the
judgment was affirmed. 101 California, 495. A writ of error
was allowed, and the cause has been brought here for review.
.Mr. Edward Winslow Paigefor plaintiff in error.
Mr.George -Fuller,Mr.H. E. Doolittle and Mr. . L Lewis,

for defendant in error, submitted on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Before discussing the merits, we will briefly consider and
dispose of a suggestion that no Federal question appears by
the record to have been properly raised below, and, therefore,
there is a want of jurisdiction in this court to review the judgment. The answer averred that if any stock of the savings
bank appeared to have been issued to the national bank, it
was "issued without authority of this corporation defendant,
and without authority of law." In view of the fact that the
defendant was a national bank, deriving its powers from the
statutes of the United States, the averment that a particular
transaction of the character of the one in question, if entered
into, was without authority of law, can, in reason, be construed
only to relate to the law controlling and governing the conduct

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of the corporation, that is, the law of the United States. But
if there were ambiguity on this subject, it is entirely removed
by the grounds which were presented on the motion for a new
trial and the specifications of error which formed the basis of
the appeal which was taken to the Supreme Court of the State
of California, for in both the motion and specifications the want
of power under the laws of the United States was clearly asserted. The Supreme Court of the State interpreted the case
brought to it from the court below as presenting the question
of the power of the corporation under the law of the United
States to become a stockholder in a savings bank, for in the
opening sentence of its opinion it said:
"The California National Bank, one of the defendants, has
appealed upon the ground that, by virtue of the statutes under
which it is organized, it had no power to'become a stockholder
in another corporation, and that its act in becoming such stockholder is so far ultra vires that it cannot be made liable for any
portion of the indebtedness of the corporation."
The suggestion as to the want of jurisdiction is, therefore,
without merit.
The Federal questions which therefore arise on the record
may be thus stated: Ist, do the statutes of the United States,
Rev. Stat. ยง 5136 et seq., relating to the organization and powers
of national banks, prohibit them from purchasing or subscribing to the stock of another corporation? and, 2d, if a
national bank does not possess such power, can the want of
authority be urged by the bank to defeat an attempt to enforce
against it the liability of a stockholder?
As to the first question. - It is settled that the United States
statutes relative to national banks constitute the measure of
the authority of such corporations, aid that they cannot rightfully exercise any powers except those expressly granted, or
which are incidental to carrying on the business for which
they are established. logan County Bank v. Townsend, 139
U. S. 67, 73. No express power to acquire the stock of, another corporation is conferred upon a national bank, but it
has been held that, as incidental to the power to loan money
on personal security, a bank may in the usual course of doing

CALIFORNIA BANK v. KENNEDY.
Opinion of tile Court.

such business accept stock of another corporation as collateral,
and by the enforcement of its rights as pledgee it may become
the owner of the collateral and be subject to liability as other
stockholders. National Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 628. So,
also, a national bank may be conceded to possess the incidental power of accepting in good faith stock of another
corporation. as security for a previous indebtedness. It is
clear, however, that a national bank does not possess the
power to deal in stocks. the prohibition is implied from the
failure to grant the power. First National Bank v. National
Exchange Bank, 92 U. S. 122, 128.
On behalf of the plaintiff below it was admitted at the trial
that the stock of the savings bank was not "taken as security
or anything of the kind," and it is not disputed in the argument at bar that the transaction by Which this stock was
placed in the name of the bank was one not in the course of
the business of banking for which the bank was organized.
2. The transfer of the stock in question to the bank being
unauthorized by law, does the fact that, under some circumstances, the bank might have legally acquired stock in the corporation estop the bank from setting up the illegality of the
transaction ?
Whatever divergence of opinion may arise on this question
from conflicting adjudications in some of the state courts, in
this court it is settled in favor of the right of the corporation
to plead its want of power, that is to say, to assertthe nullity
of an act which is an ultra vires act. The cases of Thomas v.
Railroad Company, 101 U. S. 71; Pennsylvania Railroadv.
St. Louis, Alton &~c. Railroad, 118 U. S.290; Oregon Railway & Navigation Co. v. Oregonian Railway Co., 130 U. S.1;
Pittsburgh, Cincinnati &c. Railway v. Keokuk & Hamilton,
Bridge Co., 131 U. S. 371; Central-Transp. Co. v. Pullman's
Car Co., 139 U. S.24; St. Louis &c. Railroadv. Terre -Haute
& indianapolis Railroad, 145 U. S. 393; Union Pacfic
Railway v. Chicago &c. Railway, 163 U. S.564, and JMcCormick v. Market -at. Bank, 165 U. S. 538, recognize as sound
doctrine that the powers of corporations' are such only as are
conferred upon them by statute, and that, to quote from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion of the court in Central Transp. Co. v. Pullman'&
Palace Car Co.,139 U. S. 24, 59 to 60:
"A contract of a corporation, which is ultra vires, in the
proper sense, that is to say, outside the object of its creation
as defined in the law of its organization, and therefore beyond
the powers conferred upon it by the legislature, is not voidable
only, but wholly void, and of no legal effect. The objection
to the contract is, not merely that the corporation ought not
to have made it, but that it could not make it. The contract
cannot be ratified by either party, because it could not have
been authorized by either. No performance on either side can
give the unlawful contract any validity, or be the foundation
of any right of action upon it."
This language was also cited and expressly approved in
Jacksonville &c. Railway v. Hlooper, 160 U. S. 514, 524, 530.
As said in McCormick v. Market National Bank, 165 U. S.
538, 549:
"The doctrine of ultra vires, by which a contract made by
a corporation beyond the scope of its corporate powers is unlawful and void and will not support an action, rests, as this
court has often recognized and affirmed, upon three distinct
grounds: The obligation of any one contracting with a corporation to take notice of the legal limits of its powers; the
interest of the stockholders not to be subject to risks which
they have never undertaken; and, above all, the interest of
the public that the corporation sfrAll not transcend the powers
conferred upon it by law. Pearce v. Madison (& Indianapolis
Railroad,21 How. 441; Pittsburgh, Chicago &c. Railway v.
Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co., 131 U. S. 371, 384; Central
Tranmp. Co. v. Pullman's Palace Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, 48."
The doctrine thus enunciated is likewise that which obtains
in England. As1bbury Railway Carriage & Iron Co. v.
Riche, L. R. 7 H. L. 653; Attorney General v. Great Eastern
Railway Company, 5 App. Cas. 473; Baroness Wenlock v.
The River Dee Comnpany, 10 App. Cas. 354; Trevor v. Whitworth, 12 App. Cas. 409; Ooregum. Gold Mining Co. of India
v. Roper, (1892) App. Cas. 125; Mann v. Edinburgh Northern Tramways, (1893) App. Cas. 69.

CALIFORNIA BANK v. KENNEDY.
Opinion of the Court.

Applying the principles of law thus settled to the case at
bar, the result is free from doubt.
The power to purchase or deal in stock of another corporation, as we have said, is not expressly conferred upon national
banks, nor is it an act which may be exercised as incidental to
the powers expressly conferred. A dealing in stocks is consequently an ultra vires act. Being such, it is without efficacy.
Pearce v. Railroad Company, 22 How. 441, 445.

Stock so

acquired creates no liability to the creditors of the corporation
whose stock was attempted to be transferred. (Cook on Stock
and Stockholders, vol. 1, p. 435, note 1 to sec. 316, and authorities there cited.)
In the Royal Bank of India's case, L. R. 4 Ch. 252 (1869),
while it was held by the Court of Appeal that, as incidental
to the power to advance money on a deposit of shares of stock,
a corporation might do such acts as were reasonable and
proper for making the security available, it was conceded
that a purchase of stock of another company as a speculation
would have been ultra vires, and, despite acts of ownership
exercised by the company, the shares might be repudiated at
any time.
Sir C. J. Selwyn, L. J., said (p. 261)
"If it could have been shown that it was an act absolutely
prohibited by their memorandum of articles of association,
then, no doubt, a different question would have arisen; the
act would have been ultra vires and incapable of confirmation
or ratification."
Sir G. M. Giffard, L. J., said (p.. 262):
"I quite agree that the Royal Bank of India had no authority to speculate in shares, and that if it had gone upon the
Stock Exchange and bought shares as a speculation, such a
proceeding would have been ultra vires, and all that has taken
place would not have been enough to constitute the Royal
Bank of India shareholders in this bank, or prevent them from
repudiating these shares."
In Exparte Liquidators of the British .Nation Lfe Assur-

ance Association, L.R. 8 Ch. Div. 679, (1879) the Court of
Appeals (Lords Justices James, Baggally and Thesiger) disVOL. cLXVII-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

charged an order of an arbitrator which had put the British
Nation Association on the list of contributories of the British
Commercial Insurance Company, a corporation in the process
of being wound up. Pursuant to authority conferred by its
deed of settlement, the British Nation Association had, through
its directors, purchased the business of the British Commercial
Insurance Company. Under the agreement entered into
between the companies, certain stock of the British Commercial Company was transferred to the trustees appointed by the
British Nation Company. Subsequently this stock was transferred into the name of the association, and it was sought to
hold it liable as a stockholder, because of its alleged ownership
of such stock. Lord Justice James delivered the opinion of
the court, holding that while the British Nation Association
was empowered to purchase for investment shares of a certain
character, it was not empowered to purchase stock which
would practically constitute it a partnership in business speculations or adventures, and that the transfer of the stock in
question into the name of the bank was ultra vires and void.
It was further held that the shareholders who had transferred
the stock to the British Nation Association had no power, as
between themselves and the association, to transfer their
liability to the latter, and that"No other person or body of persons could be prejudiced
or benefited or affected by an instrument to which they were
absolutely strangers, such instrument being void as between
the parties to it."
The case before the court was declared to be not one of a
person induced to become a shareholder, and who had become
a shareholder by fraud, but that of a person who had never in
fact become a shareholder.
The circumstance that the dealing in stocks by which, if at
all, the stock of the California Savings Bank was put in the
name of the California National Bank, was one entirely outside of the powers conferred upon the bank, and was in nowise the transaction of banking business or incidental to the
exercise of the powers conferred upon-the bank, distinguishes
this case from the class of cases relied upon by the defendant

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
Syllabus.

in error. National Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 99; National
Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. S. 621. The difference between those
cases and one like this was referred to in McCormick v. Market
National Bank of Chicago, supra,and it is, therefore, unnecessary to particularly review them. The claim that the bank
in consequence of the receipt by it of dividends on the stock
of the savings bank is estopped from questioning its ownership
and consequent liability, is but a reiteration of the contention
that the acquiring of stock by the bank under the circumstances disclosed was not void but merely voidable. It would
be a contradiction in terms to assert that there was a total
want of power by any act to assume the liability, and yet to
say that by a particular act the liability resulted. The transaction being absolutely void, could not be confirmed or ratified. As was said by this court in Union Pacific Railway
v. Chicago &c. Railway, 163 U. S. 564, speaking through
Mr. Chief Justice Fuller (p. 581):
"A contract made by a corporation beyond the scope of its
powers, express or implied, on a proper construction of its
charter, cannot be enforced, or rendered enforceable by the
application of the doctrine of estoppel."
It follows from the foregoing that the judgment of the
Supreme Court of California against the bank was erroneous,
and it must, therefore, be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

NEW ORLEANS v. CITIZENS' BANK.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT FOR THE

EASTERN

DISTRICT

OF LOUISIANA.
No. 108.

Argued January 15, 18, 1897. - Decided May 24,1897.

By the act of January 30, 1836, the legislature of Louisiana exempted the
capital of the Citizens' Bank in New Orleans from taxation.
The two judgments of the District Court of New Orleans hetween the bank
and the city, which are set forth in the opinion of this court, hold that

