-SPOKANE FALLS &c. RAILWAY v. ZIEGLER.

65

Syllabus.

tiff, and the fact that the property of the Kansas company
was returned to it by its procurement without actual foreclosure, irrespective of the fact whether or not betterments had
been put upon the property with moneys earned during the
operation of the road by the receivers. Again, a distinct
proposition of law results from the record, dependent upon an
affirmative answer to the last proposition, as to whether the
cause of action against the receivers abated by their discharge,
and whether the claim against the Texas company was a new
and independent cause of action to be tried and disposed of in
a distinct action, or was a claim in the nature of a demand
against a purchaser pendente lite, and a mere continuance of
the pending action.
These illustrations clearly show that the questions propounded are general in their nature, and amount simply to
submitting the whole case upon the entire record to-this court
for decision, and therefore that the questions certified can in
no sense be treated as stating distinct propositions of law.
Fi'om this conclusion it follows that the certificate does not
comply with the rules of law controlling the subject, and it
must, therefore, be dismissed, and
It is so ordered.
MR., JUSTICE BROWN dissented, and MR. JUSTICE BREWER,
not having heard the argument, took no part in the decision
of this case.

SPOKANE FALLS AND NORTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. ZIEGLER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 211.

Submitted March 12, 1897. -Decided

May 10, 1897.

A complaint which alleges that the plaintiff was preemptor of public land
in Washington Territory under the laws of the United States, on which
he had lived sufficient time to entitle him to a patent, and that the defendant railroad company, a corporation organized under the laws of
VOL. CLXVII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
that Territory entered upon and seized a strip of said land and appropriated it for railroad purposes without plaintiff's consent and without having compensated him therefor, discloses a case of a contest between a
settler claiming title under the laws of the United States, and a railroad
company claiming title under an act of Congress, and makes a case
of which the Circuit Court of the United States for that Circuit had
jurisdiction.
A railroad company whose road is laid out so as to cross public lands cannot take a part thereof in possession and occupation of a settkler who is
entitled to claim a preemption right thereto, and who has made improvements thereon, without making him proper compensation.
Such a preemption settler, who has paid to the United States the price of
the preempted land is entitled to recover damages as owner of the fee,
although the patent may not be acquired till after the seizure.
This case arose under ยง 2456 of the code of Washington Territory which
required compensation to be made to the owner of the land irrespective
of any increased value by reason of the proposed improvement.

Tuis action was commenced in the Superior Court of Spokane
County, State of Washington, wherein William H. Ziegler, on
October 5, 1891, filed his complaint against the Spokane Falls
and Northern Railway Company, a corporation organized
under the laws of the 'Territory of Washington, seeking to
recover the value of a certain piece of land taken by the company for its roadbed and right of way, and also to recover
d.amages for the alleged diminution in value of the tract of
land through which the strip extended, caused by the construction of the road and the use of the same as a steam railway. Upon petition of the defendant company, alleging that
the suit arose under the laws of the United States, and that
the rights of the parties depended upon the construction
thereof, the case was removed into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Washington, Eastern Division.
In his complaint the plaintiff alleged that, on May 1, 1889,
he was in possession as a preemptor, under the laws of the
United States, of the east half of the southeast quarter of section four, township twenty-five north, range forty-three east,
Willamette meridian, in the said county, containing about
eighty acres, and had then made all such improvements, had
lived on the land for such .length of time, and had done all

SPOKANE FALLS &c. RAILWAY v. ZIEGLER.

67

Statement of the Case.

such acts as were necessary to entitle him to a patent to the
land from the United States upon making final proofs and
paying the purchase price required by statute, and had then
made final proofs and filed the same in the land office of the
United States at Spokane Falls, and had tendered the pur,chase price of the land, or two dollars and a half per acre, to
the receiver of that office, and had demanded from the register and receiver of the office a final receipt, evidencing the
plaintiff's entry of the land and payment therefor; that the
defendant company was authorized by its articles of incorporation to build, equip, maintain and operate a line of steam
railway from the city of Spokane Falls (now the city of Spokane) in a northerly direction to the Columbia River; that on
the said date the company, acting in pursuance of the laws of
the Territory of Washington authorizing railway companies
to appropriate lands for railway tracks, entered upon and
.seized, without making compensation to the plaintiff, and
without his consent, a strip of land fifty feet wide, extending
through the said land, -and built thereon its tracks, and had
ever since been using the same as a line of steam railway.
The plaintiff averred that the said land was in close proximity
to the city of Spokane, and at the time of the taking of the
same by the company was very valuable for the purpose, of
being divided into blocks and lots ; that the company's road
extended diagonally across the land, and prevented the portions of the land abutting on the road from being platted advantageously; that the operating of a line of steam railway
through the land largely diminished its value for residence
purposes, or for any purpose; that the road was built upon a
grade which was higher at some places and lower at others
than the natural surface of the land, by reason whereof cuts
and fills were made, which diminished the value, for residence
purpoges, of the land abutting on the road, and made it necessary that all streets laid out across the road should conform
to the grade thereof. It was further averred by the plaintiff
that since the taking of the said strip of land and the building of the road thereon by the company, the final proofs
made by him and filed in the land office, as aforesaid, had

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

been passed upon and accepted as satisfactory by the proper
officers; that the money tendered, as aforesaid, had been accepted, and that a patent for the land had been duly executed
and delivered to him by the United States. The plaintiff demanded judgment for $30,000, asserting that the value of the
said strip of land taken was $5000, and that the tract of land
through which it extended was damaged by the construction
and operation of the road to the extent of $25,000.
The defendant company filed its answer on February 19,
1892, wherein it denied the essential allegations of the complaint as to the damage to the said tract of land caused by
the construction and operation of the road through the same,
and, in defence of the plaintiff's demand of compensation for
the strip of land taken, alleged that on June 5, 1888, the company filed in the office of the Secretary of the Interior of the
United States a copy of its articles of incorporation, and due
proof of its organization under the same, which were duly
approved by the Secretary on that date, and that thereupon
the defendant became entitled to survey, locate, construct and
maintain its railroad through and over all lands between the
termini of the road which were public lands of the United
States at the time of the filing of said copy of the articles of
incorporation, and proof of organization, and became the owner
of a right of way through the public lands to the extent of one
hundred feet on each side of the central line of the road upon
such route as it might select, and also acquired the right to
take from the public lands adjacent to the line of the road,
material, earth, stone and timber necessary for the construction
of the road, as granted by the act of Congress entitled "An
act granting to railroads the right of way through the public
lands of the United States," approved March 3, 1875, and that
by the filing of the said copy of the articles of incorporation,
and proof of organization, and the approval thereof as aforesaid, the grant in the said act became operative and applied
to the defendant company to the same extent as if it had been
a special grant in the name of that company; that afterwards,
and in the month of March, 1889, the company, acting under
the provisions of the said act, and as authorized by its articles

SPOKANE FALLS &c. RAILWAY v. ZIEGLER.

69

Statement of the Case.

of incorporation, commenced the construction of its road between the city of Spokane Falls and the Columbia River, and
between March 8 and April 8, 1889, surveyed the definite line
of its road from a point in that city to a point twenty miles
in a northerly direction therefrom, and caused such survey to
be marked on the ground in the manner customary in surveying and marking lines for railways, and that the line so surveyed and marked ran through and over the land described
in the complaint; that in June, 1889, the defendant had fully
constructed and completed its road, upon the said line of survey, through tle said land, and within the year 1889 had fully
completed the road from the city of Spokane Falls to the
Columbia River, and had ever since operated the same; that
at the time of the filing of a copy of the articles of incorporation, and proof of organization, with the Secretary of the
Interior, and during all the time thereafter until the completion of the road, the lands described in the complaint were
public lands of the United States, and the title thereto was in
the United States, and the lands were subject to the grant
contained in the said act of Congress; that on August 3, 1889,
within twelve months after the location of the road over the
said land, the company filed with the register of the land office
where the land was located a profile of its road, which profile
was duly approved by the Secretary of the Interior in December, 1889; that the plaintiff's entry of the land was made and
the patent thereto issued long subsequent to the construction
of the road and the approval of the said profile; and that the
sale and conveyance of the land by the United States to the
plaintiff was subject to the defendant's said right of way.
The defendant asked for a judgment quieting its title.
All of the foregoing allegations of the answer tending to
show title to the said strip of land in the defendant were
denied by the plaintiff in his replication, filed March 11, 1892.
The case was tried in the said Circuit Court before the
court and a jury. At the close of the testimony the defendant requested the court to give the jury the following instruction :
"It appearing from the uncontroverted proof in this case that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

at the time the defendant filed its articles of incorporation, and
proofs of its organization, with the Interior Department, on
the 5th day of June, 1888, the plaintiff was a preemption
claimant to the land in controversy, and did not pay for said
land until after that date nor until after the construction of
said rofad over the premises, he is not entitled to a verdict for
any amount, and the jury are instructed to return a verdict
for the defendant."
This instruction was refused, to which refusal the defendant excepted. The court then, of its own motion, gave the
jury certain instructions, and the defendant excepted to the
portion thereof following:
"He [the plaintiff] is in any event to have the full value of
the land they have taken for the right of way, and if the land
that is left to him is injured at all, then he is entitled, in addition to that, to have the difference between the value of the
whole tract and the value of what is left of it, taking the
value as it was when the road was built, and the market
value, irrespective of the effect on the market value by reason
of the building of the road."
Exceptions were also taken by the defendant to the rejection of certain testimony offered on its behalf, and to the
admission of certain testimony for the plaintiff.
On April 27, 1892, the jury rendered a verdict in favor of
the plaintiff, assessing his damages at the sum of $7500, and
also returned a special finding as follows: "We, the jury, in
the case of William H. Ziegler against the Spokane Falls and
Northern Railway Company, defendant, find speciaily that
the defendant has appropriated for its right of way a strip of
land twenty-five feet in width on each side of the centre line
of its track, extending across the plaintiff's land described in
the complaint, and no more, and that the area of plaintiff's
land so appropriated is one and eight-tenths acres, and no
more; and the amount of damages awarded by our general

verdict is computed upon the basis of the land appropriated
for said right of way, being a strip fifty feet in width and
containing one and eight-tenths acres."
Judgment in thb said amount was entered April 29, 1892.

SPOKANE FALLS &c. RAILWAY v. ZIEGLER.

71

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant moved for a new trial, and upon the denial
of his motion, took the case on writ of error to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. That
court affirmed the judgment of the court below, and the
defendant, after having been denied a rehearing, sued out a
writ of error from this court.
.Mr.
A. T. Britton, Mr.A. B. Browne and Mr. Albert Allen
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George Turner for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This action was brought by William H. Ziegler against the
Spokane Falls and Northern Railway Company in the Superior
Court for Spokane County, Washington, and was, on the petition of the railway company, removed into the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Washington. The
trial there resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of
Ziegler. That judgment the railway company by a writ of
error took to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit. 15 U. S. App. 472; 29 U. S. App. 69. The judgment
of the Circuit Court was there affirmed. The case is before
us on a writ of error to the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, sued out by the railway company.
The plaintiff in error now contends that the judgment
should be reversed and the record sent back to the Circuit
Court, with directions to remand the case to the state court
whence it was taken on the petition of the plaintiff in error.
The ground of this contention is that the plaintiff's statement
in the state court did not disclose either that the parties were
citizens of different States or a cause of action involving a
right claimed under the Constitution or laws of the United
States.
Whether it would be competent for the plaintiff in error,
in the circumstances stated, to challenge the jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the Circuit Court at this stage of the controversy we need
not consider, because we think that the plaintiff's statement
did disclose a cause of action arising under the laws of the
United States and cognizable by the Circuit Court.
In his complaint the plaintiff alleged that, on May, 1, 1889,
he was in possession, as a preemptor under the laws of the
United States, of a tract of land containing about eighty
acres, and on said date had made all the improvements and
had lived on the land a sufficient length of time, and had done
all other acts necessary to entitle him to a patent to the same
from the United States; that the defendant company, being
a corporation of the Territory of Washington, on said date
entered upon and seized a strip of said land fifty feet in width,
and appropriated it for railroad purposes without the consent
of the plaintiff, and without having compensated him therefor; and that the entry upon and seizure by the defendant
of the land was under and pursuant to the laws of the Territory of Washington authorizing railroad companies to appropriate land for right of way for railroad tracks.
We have judicial knowledge that the authority of the Territory to legislate, in respect to the right of a territorial railroad corporation to enter upon the public lands of the United
States, was derived from the act of Congress entitled "An
act granting to railroads the right of way through the public
lands of the United States," approved March 3, 1875, 18 Stat.
482, whereby the right of way through the public lands of
the United States was granted to any railroad company duly
organized under the laws of any State or Territory.
The plaintiff's complaint, therefore, discloses the case of
a contest between .a settler claiming title under the laws of
the United States and a railroad company claiming a right
under an act of Congress; and of such a case the Circuit
Court for the District of Washington clearly had jurisdiction. Doolan v. Carr, 125 U. S. 618, 620; Cooke v. Avery,
147 U. S. 375.
Passing from the question of jurisdiction, we come to the
contention of the plaifitiff in error that Ziegler, as a mere
settler upon lands of the United States, although with an

SPOKANE FALLS &c. RAILWAY v. ZIEGLER.

73

Opinion of the Court.

intention to obtain a title to the same under the predmption
laws, did not have such a vested interest in the land as would
avail against the railway company in asserting its right of
way conferred by the act of Congress.
An answer to this question is furnished by the case of
Washington d Idaho Railroad Co. v. Osborn, 160 U. S. 103,
where it was held that a railroad company whose road is laid
out so as, under the provisions of the act of March 3, 1875, to
cross a part of the public lands, cannot take part thereof in the
actual possession and occupation of a settler who is entitled to
claim a pre~mption right thereto when the proper time shall
come, and who has made improvements on the land so occupied by him, without making proper compensation therefor.
The court based its conclusion in that case upon the language of the third section of the act, which is as follows:
"That the legislature of the proper Territory may provide
for the manner in which private lands and possessory claims
on the lands of the United States may be condemned, and
when such provision shall not have been made, such condemnation may be made in accordance with section three of the
act entitled 'An act to aid in the construction of a railroad and
telegraph line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean,'
etc., approved July 1, 1862."
And it was held that the right of a settler in possession
of unsurveyed lands of the United States, who had made
improvements with the intention of procuring a title under
the preemption laws as soon as the same should be surveyed by the government, was a possessory claim within the
meaning of the statute, for which compensation must be made
by a railroad company seeking to appropriate a part of it for
its tracks.
The final contention on behalf of the plaintiff in error is
that the trial court erred in holding and deciding that the
words "possessory claims," used in said act of Congress, were
intended to protect more than the improvements of a settler,
and thus, in effect, holding and deciding that the settler was
entitled to receive pay for the land as though he was the
owner in fee.

OCTOBER ,TERWM,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

Even if it were the law, as is assumed in this contention,.
that the plaintiff, as the holder of a possessory claim, was not
entitled to the same measure of compensation as if he had
secured his patent from the United States, it would be difficult to convict the trial judge of any error in that respect. In
the charge the judge instructed the jury as follows: "As I
have said, the court holds the plaintiff to be the owner of the
land, but I do not wish to be understood by that as saying that
he was th~n the owner in fee; that he had a title in fee or
other rights than such as belonged to a settler under the preemption law of the United States, which gave him a possessory right and a vested interest in the property, so that no
part of it could be lawfully taken from him without compensation being paid for it; and in determining the amount of
damages to be awarded to him, you will take into consideration the condition the title was in at the time the road was
built and award him the value of the property as you find it
to be, considering the title to be involved as it was by reason
of the matter being undetermined in the land department as
to his right to it, and there being a contest, aad that he was
obstructed in obtaining his patent to it by reason of a dispute
as to its right. Now, taking that into account, you will award
him such amount of damages as will compensate him for so
much of the land as the railroad company has appropriated
for the right of way and for whatever injurious effect the
road may have caused to the land which he owned, the balance of the eighty-acre tract described in his complaint."
Under this instruction the railroad company would seem
to have received the benefit of any distinction that could be
fairly made between a possessory title and one that had matured into a patent. But upon the facts disclosed by this
record, we do not think that the railroad company was entitled to the benefit of such a distinction. While it is true
that, at the time when the company took possession of the
plaintiff's land, the latter had not yet received his patent, but
had only made the final proofs and filed the same in the land
office of the United States and had tendered the purchase
price thereof, and had demanded from the register and re-

SPOKANE FALLS &c. RAILWAY v. ZIEGLER.

75

Opinion of the Court.

ceiver of said land office a final receipt evidencing his entry
of and payment for said land, yet it further appears that before the plaintiff brought this suit his purchase money had
been accepted and a patent from the United States for the
siid tract of land had been duly executed and delivered to
him. The plaintiff, then, having been in possession of the
land in question, and having done and performed all that the
law required to give him a right to a patent, before the railroad company seized the land, we think the grant of the
patent, subsequent to such seizure, but before the bringing of
the suit, operated to confer upon the plaintiff the right to
demand and recover damages as the owner of the fee. The
railroad company having taken possession without the consent
of the owner, and not having instituted proceedings to condemn, was a trespasser, and liable to indemnify the plaintiff
in respect to his possession and title, as they were shown to
exist at the time the suit was brought.
To avoid possible misunderstanding, it may be observed
that, as mentioned by the Circuit Court of Appeals, this case
arose under ยง 2456 of the code of Washington Territory,
which authorized any corporation, organized for the construction of a railroad, canal or bridge, to take lands, but required
"compensation to be made to the owner thereof, irrespective
of any increased value thereof by reason of the proposed improvement by such corporation." See 15 U. S. App. 472.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Afirmed.

