OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

ton Railroad v. Alabama, 107 U. S. 581; St. Louis & San
Francisco Railway v. James, 161 U. S.545.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed; the
debree of the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas
is likewise reversed, and the cause is remanded to that
court with directions to dismiss the bill of comolaint for
'want of jurisdiction. The costs in this court to be paid
by appellant.

UNITED STATES v. REED.
UNITED STATES v. REED.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE SECOND

CIR-

CUIT.
Nos. 189, 190. Argued March 10, 11, 189T. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

The act of June 19, 1886, c. 421, 24 Stat. 19, did not repeal the provisions
of the act of June 26, 1884, c.121, 23 Stat. 59, as respects expenditures
by shipping commissioners other than for clerks.

THE SE were suits brought by James C. Reed, shipping commissioner of the United States at the port of New York, to
recover, respectively, the amount expended by him for rent of
office and storage rooms for his official use from March 1,
1891, to April 1, 1893, and the amount of certain expenses
which he incurred between July 1, 1886, and March 1, 1891,
in maintaining his office and discharging his duties, including
rent of the said rooms from April 1, 1890, to March 1, 1891.
The petition in No. 189, asking judgment for the sum of
$3125, was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York on April 7, 1893. The
Government filed a general answer on June 21 of the same
year, and the case was referred, by consent, to a referee, who
took the evidence presented by the parties and reported the
same, together with his ppinion, to the court. Upon the com-

UNITED STATES v. REED.
Statement of the Case.

ing in of this report, the court, on August 26, 1893, filed its
findings of fact and conclusions of law. The facts stated in
the findings were substantially as follows:
The petitioner assumed the duties of his office prior to July
1, 1884, and on or about August 26 of that year the Secretary
of the Treasury, pursuant to the provisions of the act of Congress entitled "An act to remove certain burdens on the
American merchant marine, and encourage the American foreign-carrying trade, and for other purposes," approved June
26, 1884, fixed the compensation of the petitioner at the sum of
$4000 per annum, and in addition thereto one half of the net
surplus of the receipts of his office from fees earned, less the
amount of salaries and expenses paid ; limiting the amount of
such compensation, however, to the maximum sum of $5000
in any one year. The petitioner continued to -hold the office
and discharge the duties thereof from July 1, 1884, to the
date of the filing of the said findings of fact, and within the
period between July 1, 1884, and April 1, 1893, no change
was made in the amount of his compensation, and the same
was allowed and paid him at the rate of $5000 per year. For
the time between the opening of the fiscal year commencing
March 1, 1891, and April 1, 1893, the surplus earnings of. the
office, of service fees, exceeded the necessary expenses incident to the conduct of the business of the office, including
the compensation of the petitioner, by the sum of $14,551.29.
From July 1, 1884, to May 20, 1886, the office of the petitioner was situated at 187 Cherry street, in the city of New
York, and the rental of the premises, together with all other
expenses incident to the office of shipping commissioner, and
to the discharge of the duties thereof, were paid by the
United States. On or about May 20, 1886, the office was
removed, by direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, from
Cherry street to the United States barge office, in the said
city, a building owned by the Government, and the expenses
incident to the removal and to the fitting up of the petitioner's
office in that building were paid by the United States.
On or about April 10, 1890, the petitioner, by direction of
the Secretary of the Treasury, removed from the barge office,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

and procured offices at 25 Pearl street, and storage room for
deceased seamen's effects at 19 Pearl street, at an annual
rental of $1500. Between March 1, 1891, and April 1, 1893,
the petitioner incurred expenses, and was obliged to make and
did make disbursements on account of rent of the said premises in Pearl street, amounting in the aggregate to the sum of
$3125.
The court further found that the said expenditures were
incident to the office of shipping commissioner; that the said
sum was a reasonable charge for the said premises, that the
United States duly authorized the occupation by the petitioner
of the premises and the expenditures incurred and proposed
to be incurred therefor; that the petitioner had duly demanded
the said amount from the United States, and that no part
thereof had been paid.
In No. 190, the petition asking judgment for $4035.17 was
filed in the said court on March 27, 1891, and the general
answer of the Government on June 10, 1891. The court's
findings of fact and conclusions of law were filed April 6,
1893, on which day, reference of the case having theretofore
been made as in No. 189, the report of the referee was
submitted.
The findings in this case were essentially similar to those
in No. 189 concerning the fixing of the petitioner's compensation, his continuance in office and his receipt of the maximum
compensation during the time covered by his claim, his occupation of rooms in Cherry street and his removal therefrom
to the barge office, and thence, on April 10, 1890, to rooms in
Pearl street, and the payment by the United States of the
expenses of the office in Cherry street and of the removal to
the barge office. The court further found that for the period
between the opening of the fiscal year commencing July 1,
1886, and March 1, 1891, the surplus earnings of the office of
the petitioner of service fees exceeded the necessary expenses
incident to the discharge of the duties of the office, including
the compensation of the petitioner, by the sum of $24,795.01;
that between July 1, 1886, and March 1, 1891, the petitioner
incurred sundry expenses, and was obliged to make and did

UNITED STATES v. REED.
Statement of the Case.

make sundry disbursements amounting in the aggregate to
$4033.71 for necessaries incident to the duties imposed upon
him by statute as shipping commissioner, including rent of
the said office and storage rooms in Pearl street from April
10, 1890, to March 1, 1891, furnishing cost of removal, stationery, telephone, Maritime Register, ice, freight on blanks,
safe deposit vault, telegrams, repairs, etc.; that the said amount
was a reasonable expenditure for the purposes for which it
was disbursed; that reports were made monthly by the petitioner to the Secretary of the Treasury, which reports contained the items of the receipts of the office and of the
expenditures incurred and proposed to be incurred; that the
petitioner had demanded of the United States payment of
the said sum, and that no part of the same had been paid.
The court's conclusions of law in each case were "that the
Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to determine the
compensation of the petitioner as shipping commissioner at
the port of New York, and having exercised such authority,
the compensation of the petitioner remained as so fixed (to
wit,, five thousand dollars per annum); that the Secretary
of the Treasury is authorized to regulate the mode of conducting the business in the shipping offices; that all expenditures made by shipping commissioners in discharge of
their duties imposed upon them by the statutes of the United
States or the regulations of the Treasury Department are
to be audited and adjusted in the Treasury Department."
Further, as conclusions of law, the court found in No. 189
that the petitioner was entitled to have and receive from the
United States the sum of $3125, and in No. 190 that he was
entitled to have and receive from the United States the sum
of $4033.71. Judgment in No. 189, for the sum of $3125,
was rendered in favor of the petitioner on August 26, 1893,
and in No. 190, for the sum of $4033.71, on April 6, 1893.
In each case an appeal was taken by the Government to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
where on June 4, 1894, and May 2, 1894, respectively, the
said judgments were affirmed. On October 5, 1894, the Government appealed in each case to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. G. E. P. Howard for Reed.
his brief.

-Mr.Elihu Root was on

.Mr. Assistant Attorney General -Dodge for the United
States. .Mr. Samuel A. Putnam was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
These are appeals from the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit.
James C. Reed, the appellee, who for several years was the
shipping commissioner at the port of New York, obtained
judgments in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York, for moneys which he had expended and disbursed
between the first day of July, 1886, and the first day of April,
1893, in payment of expenses incident to the discharge of the
duties imposed upon him as such shipping commissioner by
the statutes of the United States.
In No. 189, the only question involved is the right of the
appellee to be reimbursed for the rent of the commissioner's
offi6es.
No. 190 involves both the question of rent, for another
period of time, and the further question of the right to be
reimbursed for certain other expenses incidental to the office.
Reed was originally appointed shipping commissioner by
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York on
May 12, 1884. At that time the law relating to the duties and
compensation of that office was contained in sections 4501,
4505, 4507, 4592, 4593 and 4594 of the Revised Statutes.
By the principal provisions of these sections, affecting the
matter in hand, the commissioner was authorized to employ
clerks to assist him in the transaction of the business at his
own proper cost, and to lease, rent or procure, at his own cost,
suitable premises for the transaction of business, and for thei
preservation of the books and other documents connected
therewith - which premises should be styled the shipping
commissioner's office. Certain fees for the several acts of

UNITED STATES v. REED.
Opinion of the Court.

service were made payable to the commissioner, for which a
fee bill was to be prepared and conspicuously placed in the
office. Out of such fees, for the purpose of reimbursing himself, the commissioner was entitled to deduct and retain any
sums not exceeding the sums specified in the schedule, but it
was provided, in section 4594, that "in no case should the
salary, fees and emoluments of any officer appointed under
this title be more than five thousand dollars per annum,
and any additional fees should be paid into the Treasury of
the United States."
By the act of June 26, 1884, c. 121, Congress amended the
law, as follows:
"SEc. 27. That section forty-five hundred and one of the
Revised Statutes is hereby amended so as to read as follows:
"Sxc. 4501. The Secretary of the Treasury shall appoint a

commissioner for each port of entry, which is also a port of
ocean navigation, and which, in his judgment, may require the
same; such commissioner to be termed a shipping commissioner, and may, from time to time, remove from office any
such commissioner whom he may have reason to believe does
not properly perform his duty, and shall then provide for the
proper performance of his duties until another person is duly
appointed in his place; provided, that shipping commissioners
now in office shall continue to perform the duties thereof until
others shall be appointed in their places. Shipping commissioners shall monthly render a full, exact and itemized account
of their receipts and expenditures to the Secretary of the
Treasuey, who shall determine their compensation, and shall
from time to time determine the number and compensation of
the-clerks appointed by such commissioner, with the approval
of the Secretary of the Treasury, subject to. the limitations
now fixed by law. The Secretary of the Treasury shall regulate the mode of conducting business in the shipping offices to
be established by the shipping commissioners as hereinafter
provided, and shall have full and complete control over the
same, subject to the provisions herein contained; and all expenditures by shipping commissioners shall be audited and
adjusted in the Treasury Department in the mode and manner

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

provided for expenditures in the collection of customs. All
fees of shipping commissioners shall be paid into the Treasury
of the United States, and shall constitute a fund which shall
be used under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury
to pay the compensation of said commissioners and their
clerks and such other expenses as he may find necessary to
insure the proper administration of their duties." 23 Stat. 59.
Reed was continued in office by the appointment of the
Secretary of the Treasury under this act of 1884 and remained in the discharge of his duties until after the 1st of
April, 1893.
In pursuance of that provision of the act of 1884, which
directed that the Secretary of the Treasury should determine
the compensation of the shipping commissioner, that officer,
on September 12, 1884, wrote to Reed that the department,
on the 26th August, had determined to allow him compensation as shipping commissioner at the rate of $4000 per annum
and. one half of the net surplus of the fees collected by him
after the payment of salaries and expenses authorized, "such
compensation not to exceed the maximum limited by law, it
being understood that from such compensation you shall pay
all Your official expenses except for employ~s and rent, and
that the compensation and all expenses shall not exceed the
aggregate of the fees collected and deposited during the year."
Under this arrangement Reed rendered monthly accounts,
charging against the fees earned in his office both the rent of
the office occupied by him and all the other expenses of the
character included in the present judgments, and all of these
charges were regularly allowed to him by the Secretary of
the Treasury, down to and including the month of June, 1886.
In June, 1886, offices were provided for the shipping commissioner of New York in the barge office, a government
building at that port. He removed to the barge office, and
the expenses of his removal were audited and allowed by the
Secretary of the Treasury under date of June 18, 1886.
On June 19, 1886, the law was further amended by an act
which abolished the payment of fees, and which provided that
shipping commissioners who theretofore had been paid wholly

UNITED STATES v. REED.
Opinion of the Court.

or partly by fees should make a detailed report of such services, and the fees provided by law, to the Secretary of the
Treasury, under such regulation as that officer should prescribe; and that the Secretary of the Treasury should allow
and pay, from any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, said officers such compensation for said services
as each would have received prior to the passage of the act;
also such compensation to clerks of shipping commissioners as
would have been paid them had the act not been passed; provided that such services had, in the opinion of the Secretary
of the Treasury, been necessarily rendered. Act of June 19,
1886, c. 421, 24 Stat. 79.
After and since the passage of this last statute the Secretary
of the Treasqry failed to allow to Reed any of his expenses,
for rent or otherwise, upon the ground that Congress had
failed to make any appropriation for that purpose; and Reed
continued to pay out of his own pocket said rent and expenses
until the expiration of his term of office. During this period
the Secretary of the Treasury sent several communications to
Congress, reminding that body that since July, 1886, no appropriations had been made to cover the expenses of the office of
shipping commissioners, and recommending that such appropriations should be made.
It is not claimed on behalf of the government that the rent
and, expenses included in the judgment were not proper and
necessary and actually incurred and paid by him.
Reed's compensation was fixed by the Secretary of the
Treasury, under the act of 1884, at the rate of $4000 and one
half of the net surplus collected by him after the payment of
salaries and expenses authorized, and it was also directed by
the Secretary that Reed should pay all official expenses except
for employ~s and rent. By the act of 1886 it was provided
that his compensation would be such as he would have received had that act not been passed.
We agree with the Court of Appeals in thinking that the
act of 1886 did not repeal the provisions of the act of 1884
as respects expenditures by shipping commissioners other than
for clerks. There is no repealing clause, there is no reference

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to such expenditures, nor any implication of any intention to
impose the burden of maintaining suitable premises for the
transaction of the business upon the commissioner, and we
think that the commissioner was not required, under the act
of 1886, to pay out of his compensation expenses of the office
which before that act were paid by the government. If
before the act of 1886, Reed received $5000 for services and
the government paid the rent and other expenses, and after
the passage of the act he would receive $5000 and pay the
rent and expenses himself, he could not, under the latter construction, receive the same compensation as before.
It is true that under the Revised Statutes prior to the act
of 1884, the commissioner was to lease, rent or procure at his
own cost the premises in which to do business, and had also to
pay all the other expenses of his office. But during that period
he had all the fees of the office. The fees were taken from
him by the act of 1884, and the Treasury was directed by
that act to assume payment of all expenses, as is seen in its
language, as follows:
"All expenditures by shipping commissioners shall be audited and adjusted in the Treasury Department in the mode
and manner provided for expenditures in the collection of customs. All fees for shipping commissioners shall be paid into
the Treasury of the United States, and shall constitute a fund,
which shall be used under the direction of the Secretary of
the Treasury of the United States to pay the compensation
of said commissioners and their clerks, and such other expenses as he may find necessary to insure the proper administration of their duties." 23 Stat. 59.
The record discloses that the Secretary of the Treasury construed the act of 1884.as directing him to allow for rent and
expenses similar to those included in these judgments; and
that he did not contend that the act of 1886 changed the
rights of the commissioner in these particulars, but that he
excused the non-payment of rent and expenses because Congress had failed to make the proper appropriation.
The government's brief cites the case of United States v.
Gunnison, 155 U. S.389.

But that was a case where it was

HEDRICK v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD.

673

Syllabus.

held that a shipping commissioner at Mobile was not entitled
to moneys paid for clerk hire, for the reason that the Secretary of the Treasury had formally notified the shipping
commissioner, previous to the time for which the clerk hire
was claimed, that his compensation would be limited to one
hundred dollars per month, and that no additional compensation would be allowed. When he presented his vouchers,
including the items for clerk hire, the Secretary approved
them only for one hundred dollars per month.
The government's claim that the commissioner was to meet
rent and expenses out of his salary might result in the application of his entire salary to that purpose. We are not willing
to construe the statute so as to require so unreasonable a
result.
Without pursuing the subject into further detail, we are of
opinion that the Circuit Court did not err in sustaining the
commissioner's claims for reimbursement, and the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly

HEDRICK v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA
FE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 154.

Argued January 14 1897. -Decided

May 24, 1897.

F. located a bounty land warrant on the west half of range 14, with which
he was acquainted. The land office, knowing his purpose and intending
to comply with it, by mistake and oversight entered the location as of
the half of range 17 ingtead of range 14. F., being ignorant of the mistake, entered upon the half of range 14 which he had thus located, took
possession of it, paid taxes on it, and sold it. His grantees and their
successors paid taxes on it, occupied it, and exercised acts of ownership
over it. H., by his agent W., who knew all these facts, applied to enter
the tract in range 14 so intended to be located by F., and received a
patent therefor. In an action instituted by H. to recover possession of
a portion of the land, Held, that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover,
and that he held the legal title, evidenced by his patent, as trustee for
those h6lding under F.
VOL. CLXVIx-43 -

