OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

MAY v. MAY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

COURT

OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.'
No. 269.

Argued April 2, 5, 1897. -Decided

May 10, 1897.

The power of a court of equity to remove a trustee, and to substitute another
in his place, is incidental to its paramount duty to see that trusts are
properly executed; and may properly be exercised, whenever such a state
of mutual ill-feeling, growing out of his behavior, exists between him
and his cotrustee or the beneficiaries, that his continuance in office would
be detrimental to the execution of the trust, even if for no other reason
than that human infirmity would prevent them from working in harmony
with him, and although charges of misconduct against him are either not
made out, or are greatly exaggerated.
A testator devised all his estate to his wife and a son, in trust to pay to
the wife one third of the income of the real estate for life, and one third
of the personal property absolutely; to divide the income of the other
two, thirds of the estate, after paying his debts and cancelling existing
mortgages, among his children and their issue; and in certain circumstan es to sell or mortgage the real estate, if necessary; the two trustees
to exercise jointly all the powers conferred, except that the son should
manage the real estate, collect the rents thereof, pay the taxes and other
expenses thereon, and render monthly accounts to the wife; and gave the
other children, "for good and sufficient cause," and with the widow's
concurrence, power "by their unanimous resolution" to remove him
from his office of trustee, and to appoint another person in his stead.
Reld, that the other children, with the concurrence of the widow, had
power to remove him, for what they determined to be good and sufficient
cause, subject to the jurisdiction of a court of equity to restrain abuse
of the power; and that his removal from the office of trustee terminated
his authority to manage the real estate.
The filing of a bill by a trustee under a will to obtain the instructions of a
court of equity in the execution of his trust does not suspend a power of
removing him given to the beneficiaries by the will; but only subjects
their action to the supervision and control of the court.
Upon a bill in equity by a trustee for instructions in the execution of his
trust, the court will not decide questions depeinding upon future events,
and affecting the rights of parties not in being, and unnecessary to be
decided for the present guidance of the trustee.
Under a will by which the testator devises and bequeathes all his estate in
trust to pay to his widow one third of the net annual income of the real
estate during her life, and one third of the personal property absolutely,
and to divide the income of the estate, with the exception of her thirds

MAY v. MAY.
Statement of the Case.
after paying his debts and cancelling existing mortgages, among his children, the widow is entitled to a third of the income of the real estate,
deducting taxes, insurance and repairs, but without any deduction for
interest on debts or mortgages.

was an appeal from a decree of the Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, removing the appellant from the office of trustee
under the will and codicil of his father, Dr. John Frederick
May, of Washington, in the District -of Columbia, who died
there May 1, 1891, leaving a widow, Sarah Maria, May, and
six children, William and Frederick and four daughters, all
of age; a large estate, consisting mostly of real estate in the
city of Washington; and a will and codicil, both of which
were duly admitted to probate.
By the will, dated February 4, 1890, he devised- and bequeathed all his estate, real and personal, to his wife, and her
heirs and assigns, upon the following trusts: 1st. That she
should receive one third of the net annual income of his real
estate during her life, one third of his personal property
absolutely, and the use for her life of his dwelling-house in
Washington. 2d.. That his estate should be kept intact and
undivided while any of his children lived; dnd the rents and
profits, with the exception of his wife's thirds, be applied to
the payment of his debts, and especially to the cancelling of
any incumbrance or mortgage existing at the time of his
death; and, after full payment and cancellation of such debts
and incumbrances, be equally divided among his children.
3d. That any part of the estate might be sold by the trustee,
if manifestly for the benefit of his heirs, and the proceeds
reinvested in real estate, or in mortgages of a particular kind;
and that such parts of the estate, as should at the time of his
death be subject to mortgages, might, upon the expiration of
such mortgages, and if the trustee should be unable to pay or
cancel them, be remortgaged. 4th. That, upon the death of
any child leaving issue, its share of the rents and profits should
go to its issue. The testator also gave his wife "the power to
appoint a trustee to succeed her should she deem it best at
any time to do so" ; appointed her executrix of his will; and
THIS

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Oase.

directed that she should not be required to give bond as trustee or as executrix.
On December 17, 1890, the testator gave William May a
power of attorney to lease or rent his real estate in the city of
Washington, to recover possession of the same, and to collect
the rents thereof.
The codicil was dated March 27, 1891, and, omitting the
formal parts, was as follows:
" I hereby appoint my son, William May, cotrustee with my
wife, Sarah Maria May, my said son and my wife to have and
exercise the powers and authority in my said will mentioned
and created, except as hereinafter otherwise directed. It is
my further wish, and I hereby will and direct, that my said
son, William May, shall take charge of my real estate (except
my present dwelling house, which shall be and remain in the
exclusive charge of my wife during her life) and care for and
manage the same for the best interests of my said estate, and
in accordance with the terms of my said will; and he shall
collect the rents and income of my said real estate, and pay
the lawful taxes and assessments, and other expenses thereon,
and shall keep the same in good repair. Itis my will, and I
so direct, that the taxes, insurance and repairs of my said
dwelling-house shall be paid out of the general income of my
other real estate.
" For the said service of my son, William May, in caring
for and managing said estate, and for collecting the rents and
paying the taxes and assessments, and other services, as hereinbefore directed, he shall and may retain from money so collected, as his compensation, a commission equal to five per
centum of the amount of money by him collected from said
estate; and the said William May shall render to my said wife
full and true accounts of the rents by him collected, and of the
disbursements by him made in the execution of this trust, such
accounts to be rendered each and every month, and shall be
accompanied by the vouchers for such disbursements. After
the death of my wife, said accounts shall be rendered to my
other heirs. It is my will that no commission shall be paid
to my wife, as a trustee.

MAY v. MAY.
Statement of the Case.

"I hereby further will and direct that, for good and sufficient cause, my other heirs, with the concurrence of my wife
given the
if she be living, shall have and they are hereby
said son,
my
remove
to
power, by their unanimous resolution,
appoint
to
and
trustee,
such
as
William May, from his office
another person in his stead.
shall be
"It is my wish that neither of my said trustees
to the
reference
in
required to give a bond or other security
this
or
will
said
execution of the trusts created by my
codicil."
adminisOn May 2, 1892, before the estate had been fully
tered, William May, as "trustee of John Frederick May,
Court of
deceased, and in his own right," filed in the Supreme
brother
the District of Columbia a bill against his mother,
as to the
and sisters, to obtain the instructions of the court
effect of the
execution of the trust, and especially upon the
of the estate
omission of the will to dispose of the principal
the question
upon
and
trust,
the
after the termination of
the income
of
third
full
a
to
whether the widow was entitled
upon outinterest
the
deducting
without allowing for or
standing mortgages.
in behalf of
On July 5, 1892, answers to the bill were filed
the plaintiff
1892,
28,
all the defendants; and on September
filed a general replication.
up, purOn November 25, 1892, an instrument was drawn
by
made"
resolution
porting to be a "deed, declaration and
widow
the
by
and
the four daughters and by Frederick May,
reciting the
joining therein as evidence of her concurrence,
May
William
of
clause of the codicil authorizing the removal
another
of
from his office as trustee and the appointment
"good and suffiperson in his stead; and further reciting that
of removal
cient cause exists for the exercise of such power
and substitution, for a number of reasons," some of which,
them, were
without admitting it to be obligatory to state
full and true
stated to be that he had failed to render
made excessive
accounts, as required by the codicil; that he
that "by his
and
estate;
the
and improper charges against
in discussing
manner
intolerably domineering and disagreeable

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

the affairs of the trust with his cotrustee, displays of anger
when questioned, and attempts to browbeat legitimate opposition and criticism, he has compelled said cotrustee to decline
any direct communication with him upon business matters,
and she is obliged to employ an expert accountant to examine
and report upon the monthly accounts of said William May,
and act as her representative in relation to the affairs of the
trust." The instrument concluded with the statement that
therefore the four daughters and Frederick May, with the
concurrence of the widow, "have unanimously resolved, and
do hereby resolve, that said William May be and he is hereby
removed from his office as trustee or cotrustee under the said
codicil and the will of said John Frederick May, deceased,
and further that they, the declarants aforesaid, by their
unanimous resolution, have appointed and do hereby appoint
William I. Dennis, of Washington, D. C., trustee in the stead
of said William May, removed, to the fullest extent of the
powers conferred by said first codicil."This instrument was signed and sealed by the widow and
the four daughters in person, and by the widow as attorney in
fact of Frederick May ; and was acknowledged before a notary
public on November 26, 1892, by the widow and two of the
daughters, and on December 3, 1892, by the other two daughters. The widow, at that time, helda power of attorney,
executed July 2, 1891, by. Frederick May, then residing at
'Valparaiso in the Republic of Chili, appointing her his attorn6y "to do and perform any act or acts necessary to be done
or performed to protect and care for" his interest in the estate
of his father.
William H. Dennis, by writing upon the resolution of removal, accepted the appointment made and the trust conferred
thereby; and on December 29, 1892, wrote and sent a letter
to the plaintiff, enclosing a copy of the instrument, as well as
a letter from the attorney of the defendants, requesting the
plaintiff to turn over to Dennis the possession of all property
of the testator in his possession or control, and all documents
appertaining to the estate.
On January 3, 1893, the plaintiff filed a petition in the

MAY v. MAY.
Statement of the Case.

cause, alleging that the widow and daughters, in undertaking
to remove him from the office of trustee, and in making the
resolution of removal, falsely and deceitfully pretended that
the removal was for good and sufficient cause, and did not act
with good faith, but from invidious motives; that they had
no power to remove him, pending this suit, except upon application to the court; and that the signature of Frederick May
by the widow as his attorney was nugatory and of no effect;
specifically denying all the allegations of the resolution of removal; and praying for an injunction against the defendants
and Dennis from claiming any right or doing any act under
that resolution. On January 7, 1893, upon the plaintiff's motion, Dennis was made a party defendant to the suit; and on
January 24, 1893, a temporary injunction was granted as
prayed for.
On March 7, 1893, the defendants, by leave given January 21,
1893, filed a cross bill, praying that the plaintiff be decreed to
surrender possession of the real estate and all moneys and documents in his charge as cotrustee to Dennis as his successor,
and to settle his final account.
Frederick May, on May 8, 1893, executed and acknowledged before a notary public in the city of Washington a
deed, ratifying, approving and confirming the acts of the
widow in voting for and executing in his behalf the resolution of removal, and also the filing of the prior answer and cross
bill in his behalf; and on June 6, 1893, personally appeared
in the cause, and, by leave of court, filed a supplemental
answer to the like effect.
After a filing of an answer to the cross bill, and a general
replication to that answer, and other motions and pleadings
not material to be stated, much evidence was taken (the substance of which is stated in the opinion of this court) and the
case was heard upon pleadings and proofs before the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia; and that court, on July 31,
1894, entered a final decree, by which the injunction granted
on the plaintiff's petition was dissolved ; "and it appearing to
the court that the heirs of John Frederick May, deceased,
other than said William May, with the concurrence of Sarah

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

Maria May, widow of said deceased testator, proceeded rightfully and within the power conferred by the first codicil to
the will of said testator in removing, by their unanimous
resolution, dated November 25, 1892, for good and sufficient
cause, said William May from his office as trustee or cotrustee named in first codicil, and in appointing the defendant
William H. Dennis in his stead; and it further appearing to
the court from the proofs that there existed good and sufficient cause why the said William May ought to have been
removed, from said office of cotrustee, more particularly on
account of the discordant relations between him on one side
and his cotrustee and all the beneficiaries of the trust except
himself on the other side," it was decreed that William May
within twenty days surrender possession and control of the
trust property in his hands, and all leases, papers and books
pertaining to the trust, and all moneys of the trust estate,
derived from the collection of rents or otherwise, to the widow
and Dennis as cotrustees, and that all the powers and duties
originally conferred upon him by the will and codicil be vested
in them ; that he be perpetually enjoined and restrained from
acting as cotrustee, and from interfering with their possession
and management of the trust property, "without prejudice,
however, to the right of said William May to apply to this court
as iemay be advised, in his quality as a beneficiary interested
in said trust"; and that he render a full and final account of
all his receipts and disbursements as cotrustee; and it was
further adjudged that the widow (in addition to the other provisions for her benefit) was entitled to receive for life to her
own use one third of the net income from the rents and profits
of the real estate, after deducting taxes, insurance and repairs,
and without any deduction for interest paid or to be paid on
debts of the testator, or on any mortgages or incumbrances upon
his estate.
The plaintiff appealed to the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the decree, with costs, and afterwards denied a motion
to amend it so as to allow him his costs and counsel fees in
the cause. 5 App. D. C. 552. Thereupon ieappealed to this
court

MAY v. MAY.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. D. Davidge for appellants. Mr. W. D. Davidge, Jr.,
was on his brief.
Mr. Enoch Totten and ilr.
appellees.

William Henry Dennis for

MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The important question in this case is whether William May
has been rightly removed from the office of trustee under the
will and codicil of his father.
As to the facts bearing upon this question, we concur, after
careful examination of the voluminous record, in the conclusions expressed by the courts below in the following passages
of their opinions:
In the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, Justice
Hagner said: "In the present case, the testimony clearly
proves that between Mrs. May, the other trustee, and William May there exists so wide a breach that they can have
no personal communication. The jealousy and unfriendliness
existing before the testator's death on each side has widened
into positive, distinct and most unnatural enmity. On William May's part, it has been undoubtedly increased by his
mother's positive refusal to confer with him on the business
of the estate, because, as she testifies, quarrels would always
result from such conferences, which would be perilous to her
health, and also by the terms in which she had expressed herself towards-him in her pleadings and testimony in this cause
and by her execution of the instrument intended to effect his
removal; and, on the part of Mrs. May, that dislke has been
intensified by the statements in William May's pleadings and
his testimony, and perhaps more pointedly because of his
introduction of the painful correspondence, many years old,
between her husband and herself, and of Dr. May's letters to
the plaintiff on the subject of his domestic troubles. She and
all the beneficiaries have testified in painful terms that they
believe him to be untrustworthy, dishonest, dictatorial and

OCTOBER TERAM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

disagreeable in manner, and incompetent ak a business man.
Under such circumstances, anything like free conference between the trustees, or concert of action, in the proper sense of
the term, is impossible. If either is to act at all as trustee,
each must pursue his or her independent way, with a certainty
of differing as to the proper performance of many of the duties
of the trust, if not as to all." "This unfortunate state of feeling between the trustee and sisters and brother must equally
prevent that peaceable intercourse that beneficiaries should
enjoy with the party charged with the management of their
interests in this considerable estate. They are certainly entitled to confer in peace with the agent appointed to manage
their affairs, and receive from him good-t.empered explanations, and give their suggestions as to what they consider the
proper steps in the management of their business, without risk
of unpleasant disputes, naturally liable to increase in violence
at each successive difference. Such a state of affairs would
ultimately become insufferable, and most hurtful to the interests of all concerned."
The Court of Appeals, speaking by Justice Morris, expressed
the same view as follows: " Dissension, however, very soon
arose between William May on the one side, and his mother,
brother and sisters, on the other; and, as usual in such cases,
the dissensions became intense and bitter. There is in the
record a painful disclosure of domestic discord which should
have been avoided, and into the details of which we do not
deem it necessary for the purposes of this case to enter."
"As we have stated, we will not enter into any investigation
of the causes of dissension between the parties, or of the reasonableness or unreasonableness of their respective positions.
That there is dissension, bitter and uncompromising, is beyond
question. That such dissension precludes intercourse between
the parties, is their mutual declaration. If there can be no
intercourse between them, no communication of views, their
joint execution of their joint trust is an impossibility. The
due execution of the trust requires concurrence of action, and
consultation preliminary to action." 5 App. D. C. 555, 561.
We agree with both the lower courts in thinking it to be

MAY v. MAY.

319

Opinion of the Court.

unnecessary and undesirable to enter upon a discussion of the
conflicting testimony, or to enlarge upon the details of the
conduct and expressions of the parties.
It is sufficient to say that, while nothing is shown to justify
an imputation of dishonesty against the appellant, it is indisputable that, from the time of his entering upon the execution
of the trust, he treated his mother and cotrustee without due
respect and consideration, and was somewhat careless and
inaccurate in his accounts rendered to her; that his conduct
was calculated to excite, and did excite, resentment in her,
sympathy with her in his sisters and brother, and suspicion
and distrust upon the part of all of them; and that, as is too
apt to happen in family quarrels, the breach once made became wider and wider until there was no longer any natural,
or even friendly, intercourse between the appellant and the
rest of the family.
What, then, are the rules of law applicable to the case,
taking into consideration the peculiar provisions of the will
and codicil?
The testator by his will, dated February 4, 1890, devised
all his estate to his widow in fee, in trust, to receive herself
one third of the income of the real estate for life, and one
third of the personal property absolutely; to divide the income of the other two thirds of the estate, after paying his
debts and cancelling existing mortgages, among his children
and the issue of any deceased child; and, in certain circumstances, to sell or mortgage the real estate; and gave, her
power to appoint a trustee to succeed her, and appointed her
sole executrix. Some ten months afterwards, on December
17, 1890, he gave his son William a power of attorney
to lease or rent his real estate, to recover possession of the
same, and to collect the rents thereof. About three months
later, on March 27, 1891, he executed the codicil, by which
he appointed William a cotrustee with the widow, the two
together to have and exercise all the powers created by the
will, except that William alone was to take charge of, care
for, manage and 'keep in repair the real estate, to collect the
rents thereof, and to pay the taxes and other expenses thereon,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

receiving a commission of five per cent on his collections,
and rendering monthly'accounts to the widow. The separate
authority thus given to William was substantially that of an
agent, little more than he had under the power of attorney
in his father's lifetime. The powers of paying and cancelling
mortgages, and of distributing income among the children,
and of making sales or new mortgages of the real estate, belonged to him and the widow jointly as trustees; and were
active trusts, requiring mutual consultation and the exercise
of discretion in carrying them into execution.
The clause in the codicil, which gave his other heirs, "for
good and sufficient cause," and with the concurrence of the
widow, power "by their unanimous resolution" to remove
William May from his office as trustee, and to appoint
another person in his stead, was evidently intended to enable
them to remove him by their own act, without being obliged
to resort to a court of equity. If no such power had been
given them by the testator, any one of them could have
applied to a court of equity, and have had the trustee
removed, on proving good and sufficient cause therefor, satisfactory to the court. If the words "for good and sufficient
cause," in the codicil, mean only such cause as would be
deemed by a court of equity to be good and sufficient, the
only effect of conferring the express power of removal would
be to restrict the power of removal by requiring their action
to be unanimous. This cannot have been the testator's intention. The extent of the power conferred appears to us
to have been well and accurately stated by the Court of
Appeals in these few words: "The power to remove their
trustee was vested in the defendants to this cause. The
power to determine when there was good and sufficient cause
for such remoVal was necessarily in them also, subject to the
restraining power of a court of equity against the abuse of
it." 5 App. D. C. 561.
The power of a court of equity to remove a trustee, and
to substitute another in his place, is incidental to its paramount duty to see that trusts are properly executed; and
may properly be exercised whenever such a state of mutual

MAY v. MAY.
Opinion of the Court.

ill-feeling, growing out of his behavior, exists between the
trustees, or between the trustee in question and the beneficiaries, that his continuance in office would be detrimental
to the execution of the trust, even if for no other reason
than that human infirmity would prevent the cotrustee or
the beneficiaries from working in harmony with him, and
although charges of misconduct against him are either not
made out, or are greatly exaggerated. Uvedale v. Etrick,
2 Ch. Cas. 130; -etterstedt v. Broers, 9 App. Cas. 371, 386;
McPherson v. Cox, 96 U. S. 404, 419; Scott v. Rand, 118
Mass. 215, 218; Wilson v. Wilson, 145 Mass. 490, 493; 2
Story Eq. Jur. ยง 1288.
A good illustration of this is afforded by the leading case
of Uvedale v. Ettrick, above cited, decided by Lord Chancellor Nottingham in 1682. In that case, the plaintiff's husband, being seized of Horton and other manors, by his will
devised them to his wife and Ettrick and three other persons,
in trust to be sold, "and, after his debts and legacies paid,
the surplus of the land to be conveyed to his heir"; and died,
"having, after his marriage with the plaintiff, mortgaged
Horton, so as the plaintiff was dowable of all the estate."
She brought a bill in equity against Ettrick and the other
three trustees and the heir-" which was to have a sale
made, but principally that Ettrick might be put out of the
trust." The other three trustees declined the trust. The
bill alleged that the plaintiff "was drawn into agreement to
release her dower" in the other manors, "and to give a
bond of ยฃ4000 that, if any of the children died, she would
not take administration, except they all died; after which,
Ettrick turns to be the plaintiff's enemy, and divers matters
are charged in the bill upon Ettrick, as if he practised to get
Horton, and to be the whole manager himself." At the hearing, the plaintiff declared in court that she was content to
accept dower in the manor of Horton, and to join in the sale
of the rest of the land, thereby to extinguish her dower
therein, "so that Ettrick might be discharged of the trust.
On the other side, Ettrick insisted to be continued in the
trust, and would attend a master from time to time to get
VOL. CLXV-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

a purchaser, and to do all reasonable acts," etc. "Lord Chancellor. 'I like not that a man should be ambitious of a trust,
when he can get nothing but trouble by it'; and declared
that, without any reflection on Ettrick, he should meddle no
farther in the trust, etc." 2 Gh. Cas. 131.
The facts of the case at bar, therefore, far from showing any
abuse of the power conferred by the testator, present a state
of things which would justify a removal of the appellant by a
court of equity, had the will been silent upon the subject.
The filing of this bill by one trustee did not suspend the
power of removal given by the will to the beneficiaries with
the concurrence of the other trustee; but only subjected their
action to the supervision and control of the court. Cafe v.
Bent, 3 Hare, 245, 249.
The form in which their power to remove the appellant
was undertaken to be executed was by a resolution in writing, declaring that there was good and sufficient cause for his
removal; specifying, among other reasons, his failure to render full and true accounts to his cotrustee, and his domineering and disagreeable conduct towards her; and signed by the
widow and the four daughters in person, and by the widow as
attorney in fact of the other son. Whether the widow was
authorized by the power of attorney from 'him to act in his
behalf in the removal need not be considered, since he afterwards formally ratified her action, and the unanimous wish
of all concerned that the removal should take place was made
manifest to the court before it acted upon the matter.
The necessary conclusion is that the decree appealed from,
in so far as it ordered William May to be removed from his
office as trustee, was in accordance with law and justice.
The direction, in the decree, that he should surrender possession and control of the trust property, and all the leases
and papers in his hands, and all moneys, whether derived from
the collection of rents or otherwise, was a necessary incident
of his removal and the appointment of a new trustee in his
stead. The management of the real estate would have been
one of the duties imposed upon the two trustees jointly by
the first clause of the codicil, but for the concluding words of

MAY v. MAY.
Opinion of the Court.

that clause, "except as hereinafter otherwise directed," followed by the direction that he should manage the real estate.
This duty of management was not separate from, but annexed
to, his office of trustee; and after his removal from that office,
he could not perform this or any other duty connected with
the administration of the trust.
The question who will take the estate after the deaths of
the wife and the children cannot be decided now, before those
events happen, and in the absence of parties who may then
be interested. Upon a bill in equity by a trustee for instructions in the execution of his trust, the court will not decide
questions depending upon future events, and affecting the
rights of persons not in being, and unnecessary to be decided
for the present guidance of the trustee. As was said by Mr.
Justice Grier, "The court has no power to decree in thesi, as
to the future rights of parties not before the court or in esse."
Cr088 v. De Valle, 1 Wall. 1, 16.
The decree, in allowing the wife one third of the net
income of the real estate, deducting taxes, insurance and
repairs, but without any deduction for interest on debts or
mortgages, was clearly in accordance with the explicit provisions of the will, that she should receive one third of the net
annual income, and that her thirds should be exempted from
the payment of debts or mortgages.
That part of the decree which substitutes Dennis as trustee
in the place of the appellant was not specifically objected to
in argument, and we allude to it only to prevent any inference that, in affirming the decree generally, we express any
opinion upon the question whether Dennis, by acting as counsel for the rest of the family throughout this suit, and supporting all the charges, whether grave or frivolous, made by
them against the appellant, has so far identified himself with
one side of this unhappy controversy as to make it unfit that
he should hold the office of trustee under the will. That question is left to be dealt with by the court below, under the
right reserved by the decree to the appellant to apply to the
court as he may be advised, in his quality as a beneficiary
interested in the trust.
Decree a rmed.

