OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 451.

Argued February 4, 1937.-Decided March 15, 1937.

1. The water system of the City of New York was created and is
conducted in the exercise of the City's governmental functions, and
the salary of the Chief Engineer of the City's Bureau of Water
Supply is immune from federal taxation. Pp. 360, 366.
The Chief Engineer holds his office by statutory authority with
a fixed annual salary. He exercises supervision over the engineering details connected with the supplying of water for public purposes and for consumption by the inhabitants of the City; supervises the protection of the water supply from pollution; and
generally exercises control over the operation of the water system,
its personnel, expenditure of money, and other matters relating
thereto. The opinion sketches the history of the system, developed
under legislative authority, and indicates its vital importance from
both public and private standpoints.
2. This activity may be deemed an essential governmental function
of the State. P. 362.
3. The rule that forbids the United States to tax the governmental
instrumentalities of the States, and vice versa, is necessarily implied
in the Constitution as essential to the preservation of our form of
government; its application is a question of national scope to be
resolved by principles of general application. P. 364.
4. Local rulings attempting to separate governmental from corporate
activities in determining whether municipalities are suable for the
torts of their agents, should be applied with caution as a test in
determining what municipal activities are subject to federal taxation. P. 363.
5. The conclusion that the acquisition and distribution of a supply of
water for the needs of New York City involve the exercise of
essential governmental functions is fortified by a consideration of
the public uses to which the water is put, and the dependency of
the health and comfort of the inhabitants upon an adequate supply
of pure water. P. 370.

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER.
352

Argument for Petitioner.

6. The fact that in former times the business of furnishing water to
urban communities, including New York, was left largely or entirely
to private enterprise is not a reason for holding that the function,
when performed by the City, is not governmental. P. 371.
7. Governmental functions are not to be regarded as non-existent
because they were held in abeyance and have but recently been
called into use. P. 371.
8. The fact that the City makes a charge for water service to private
consumers does not stamp the function of supplying water as a
private one. P. 372.
9. South Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 461, 462, and
Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 172, distinguished. Dicta
in an opinion by way of illustration do not control in subsequent
cases in which the precise point is presented for decision. P. 373.
85 F. (2d) 32, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 536, to review a judgment affirming an order of the Board of Tax Appeals, which sustained a deficiency income tax assessment on the salary of
the petitioner in this case.

Messrs. Boykin C. Wright and Paul Windels for petitioner.
. The question presented: The supplying of water to
Greater New York for use by the City itself and its inhabitants being a usual governmental function and an
undertaking which cannot be efficiendy or safely left
to private enterprise, and having been conducted by
the Government for over a century, should.not the salary
of a municipal employee serving as engineer to the Department of Water Supply be exempt from federal income
taxes? The petitioner contends the court below adopted
an erroneous criterion for immunity, in that the court
laid down the test that the activity in question must be
"necessary to its [the municipality's] existence as a government."
The test to be applied is whether supplying water
is a "usual governmental function." Helvering v. Powers,
130607°-37-

23

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

293 U. S. 214; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107;
United States v. California,297 U. S. 175, 185.
The supply of pure water, in adequate amounts, to
urban centers of population has been consistently regarded as a sovereign or governmental function from an
early date. New Orleans v. Morris, 105 U. S. 600; New
Orleans Water Works v. Rivers, 115 U. S. 674, 681-682;
Columbus v. Mercantile Trust Co., 218 U. S. 645, 658.
Distinguishing: South Carolina v. United States, 199
U. S. 437; Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, 369. See
Ashton v. Cameron County Water District, 298 U. S. 513;
Rochester v. Rush, 80 N. Y. 302; Leonard v. Brooklyn,
71 N. Y. 498; Massenia v. St. Lawrence Co., 126 Misc. 524.
The necessity of public operation of waterworks is so
widely recognized that such operation has become usual,
with private operation rare in practice and confined to
the smaller cities.
In defining "usual governmental function," the courts
should not confine their attention to the situation prevailing when the Union was formed. Hoskins v. Commissioner, 84 F. (2d) 627.
The analogy of the tort cases is impertinent and misleading. Exemption from liability in tort might have led
to widespread individual suffering and other deplorable
consequences. The courts might well have decided that
to leave uncompensated all persons injured through the
negligent operation of waterworks would produce more
widespread social evils than would flow from holding
cities liable to persons injured.
Radically different considerations assume control when
the discussion shifts to the matter of tax exemption of
waterworks' employees from federal taxes. To deny exemption hinders the performance of what this Court regarded as the highest of police duties (Columbus v. Mercantile Trust Co., 218 U. S. 645) by either leaving employees dissatisfied with reduced salaries or cities bur-

BRUSH v. CO\IMISSIONER.
352

Argument for Petitioner.

dened with the duty of increasing those salaries to levels
adequate to leave a fair and just net salary after paying
taxes.
That the traditional dichotomy of the tort cases is not
universally valid has been acknowledged by this Court
itself. Trenton v. New Jersey, 262 U. S. 182.
The petitioner's contentions do not lead to a withdrawal of any field from federal taxation. The field we
are concerned with has never previously been invaded by
the Federal Government.
Cf. Metcalf & Eddy v.
Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 519.
That revenues are derived from the municipal waterworks is of no consequence. Commissioner v. Ten Eyck,
76 F. (2d) 515, 519; New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves,
299 U. S. 401; United States v. Coghlan, 261 Fed. 425,
426.
The taxation of the petitioner's salary impedes and
burdens the municipality in performing governmental
functions. Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113; New York
ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401; Metcalf & Eddy
v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 524; Miller v. McCaughn, 27
F. (2d) 128.
We discern far-reaching consequences if the decision
below is allowed to stand. For, if the Federal Government can tax the petitioner's salary, it will presently
assert the right to tax the bonds issued for aqueduct and
reservoir construction and, having succeeded so far, will
impose an income tax on the revenues of operation. In
order to enjoy the protection which an adequate supply
of pure Water gives against fires and against disease, the
citizens of New York will be compelled. to pay tribute to
the Federal Government.
If the Government's contentions are upheld, the
various States in which the Tennessee Valley Authority
carries on its operations might well seek to tax its revenues and its real estate, on the ground that to do so

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondent.

300 U. S.

would not impede any activity essential to the existence
of the Federal Government as a government.
By leave of Court, Mr. Julius Henry Cohen made an
argument, and Messrs. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney
General, and Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, filed a
brief, on behalf of the State of New York as amicus curiae.
The Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity
of the City of New York represents and performs a norinal and necessary governmental function, meeting the
standards laid down by this Court.
The Federal taxation of New York City's water supply
will constitute a direct burden on the State of New York.
If the water supply function is immune, the salaries
of the city's officers and employees engaged therein are
likewise immune.
Mr. J. P. Jackson, with whom Solicitor General Reed,
Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and Messrs. Sewall
Key and Berryman Green were on the brief, for
respondent.
Since the rule is aimed at the protection of the operations of government, the immunity does not extend
"to anything lying outside or beyond governmental
functions and their exertions." Fox Film Corp. v. Doyal,
286 U. S. 123, 128; Board of Trustees v. United States,
289 U. S. 48. It is entirely clear that the operation by
a municipality of a public utility such as a waterworks
system is not a governmental function.
A municipal corporation acts in a dual capacity. In
the one character it is a governmental subdivision of
the State, and exercises, by delegation, a part of the
sovereignty of the State. In the other character it is a
mere legal entity or juristic person and stands for the
community in administration of local affairs. Vilas v.
Manila, 220 U. S. 345, 356; Winona v. Botzet, 169 Fed.
321, 332; Galveston v. Rowan, 20 F. (2d) 501, 502.

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER.
352

Argument for Respondent.

It is well settled that in the maintenance of a water
supply system, the municipality acts in a corporate or
proprietary and not in a governmental capacity. McQuillin, Municipal Corporations, (2d ed.), §§ 1962,
2852; Borchard, Government Liability in Tort, 34 Yale
L. J., pp. 1, 252, 254. We have found no authority to
the contrary. [Citing many state cases.] This is the
settled rule in New York, the highest court of that State
holding that the very function here involved-the operation of the New York City water system-is a private
and not a governmental function, and holding, moreover, in, applying the doctrine of respondeat superior,
that an employee of the City, engaged in such proprietary
activity, is not an officer or employee of the State of
New York, but an agent of the City performing services
for the local advantage and benefit of the City and not
for the State at large. [Citing New York cases.]
That the rule of immunity has no place in this proceeding, see Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U.
S. 107, 172;
South Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 461, 462;
Helvering v. Powers, 293 U. S. 214; Blair v. Byers, 35 F.
(2d) 326; Denman v. Commissioner, 73 F. (2d) 193.
The fundamental reason for denying federal authority
to tax is found in the necessary protection of the independence of the respective governments within their respective spheres under our Constitution. Helvering v.
Powers, supra; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 125, 127;
Ambrosini v. United States, 187 U. S. 1, 7. These reasons outline the limits of the rule of immunity. Board
of Trustees v. United States, 289 U. S. 48; Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570, 575, 576. The
principle of immunity has inherent limitations. Helvering v. Powers, supra; Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269
U. S. 514, 522-524; Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216, 225,
226; Fox Film Corp. v. Doyal, 286 U. S. 1237128.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Arguneit for Rcspondek'nt.

300 U. S.

The successful working of our dual governmental system requires that the principle of immunity be applied so
as to interfere as little as possible with the important
functions of federal taxation, and, therefore, the rule
is to be applied restrictively. Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S.
216; 225; Educational Films Corp. v. Ward, 282 U. S.
379, 391.
The necessary independence of the States requires that
the rule be applied only to those functions "strictly" or
"essentially" governmental in character. South Carolina v. United States, supra, p. 461; Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., supra, pp. 157, 172. Just what those functions are
that are strictly and essentially governmental and necessary to preserve the separate independence of the States
is difficult to state in terms of general application. See
Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 523. Apparently they include only the operations of the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of state government in the making and enforcing of laws. See Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., supra, pp. 157, 172; Liggett & Myers
Tobacco Co. v. United States, 13 F. Supp. 143, 145; aff'd
on other grounds, 299 U. S. 383. It is clear that the operation by a municipality of a waterworks is not a strictly
and essential governmental function, necessary to the
preservation of independent state governments. In fact,
the State has no interest, governmental or otherwise, in
the activity in question. Bailey v. Mayor, 3 Hill (N. Y.)
531, 539.
The rule of immunity is further limited by the settled
principle that the States may not withdraw sources of
revenue from the federal taxing power by engaging in
activities to which, by their nature, the federal taxing
power would normally extend. Helvering v. Powers,
supra; South Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S. 437;
Murray v. Wilson Distilling Co., 213 U. S. 151, 173;
United States v. California,297 U. S. 175, 184-185; Ohio

B{USH v. ('OM\ISSIONER.
352

Opinion of the ('uit.

v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, 368, 369. See also United
States Bank v. PlantersBank, 9 Wheat. 904, 907.
In the purveying of water.for a price, the City is engaged in a profitable business enterprise. It is engaged
in an activity which, at the time of the adoption of our
Constitution, was carried on by private companies. In
New York City at the present time water is furnished
and sold by private companies in certain areas.
The duties of the taxpayer as Chief Engineer are no
different from those of similar engineers employed by
private concerns engaged in a similar enterprise.
We
see no reason for putting the sale of water in a different
category from the sale of liquor (South Carolinav. United

States, 199 U. S. 437; Ohio v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360)
or from the operation of a street railway (Helvering v.
Powers, 293 U. S. 214). And, if a State may not, by
entering into these activities, thus withdraw sources of
federal revenue, a fortiori a municipal corporation may
not.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed as
follows: by Mr. J. Joseph Lilly, on behalf of Thaddeus
Merriman et al.; by Messrs. Paul Windels, Oscar S. Cox,
and Paxton Blair, on behalf of the City of New York;
and by Messrs. James H. Howard and Charles C. Cooper,
Jr., on behalf of Frank E. Weymouth, General Manager
and Chief Engineer of the Metropolitan Water District
of Southern California, all urging reversal of the judgment below.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of. the

Court.
The question brought here for determination is whether
the salary of petitioner as Chief Engineer of the Bureau
*of Water Supply of the City of New York is a part of
his taxable income for the purposes of the federal income-

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

tax law. The answer depends upon whether the water
system of the city was created and is conducted in the
exercise of the city's governmental functions. If so, its
operations are immune from federal taxation and, as a
necessary corollary, "fixed salaries and compensation paid
to its officers and employees in their capacity as such are
likewise immune." New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves,
299 U. S. 401, 408.
Petitioner holds his office as Chief Engineer by statutory authority, with a fixed annual salary of $14,000.
lie exercises supervision over the engineering details
connected with the supplying of water for public purposes
and for consumption by the inhabitants of the city; supervises the protection of the water supply from pollution;
and generally exercises control over the operation of the
water system, its personnel, expenditure of money and
other matters relating thereto.
In the early history of the city, water was furnished
by private companies; but a century or more ago, the
city itself began to take over the development and distribution. In 1831, the Board of Aldermen declared its
dissatisfaction with the private control, and resolved that
the powers then vested in private hands should be repealed by the legislature and vested exclusively in the
corporation of the City of New York. This, in effect,
was initiated in 1833 (L. 1833, c. 36); and, soon thereafter, the city constructed municipal water works, and,
with slight exceptions, private control and operation
ceased. The sources of water supply furnished by such
companies as remain are approaching exhaustion, and the
water furnished is of a quality inferior to that supplied
by the municipality. From 1833 to the present time,
additions to the water supply and system have been
steadily made until the cost has mounted to more than
$500,000,000; and it is estimated that additional expenditures of a quarter of a billion dollars will be necessary.

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER.
352

Opinion of the Court.

The cost of bringing water from the Catskills alone
amounted to approximately $200,000,000. The municipal outstanding bonded indebtedness incurred for supplying the city with water amounts to an enormous sum.
More than half the entire population of the state is found
within the municipal boundaries. The action of the city
from the beginning has been taken under legislative
authority.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue having assessed
a deficiency tax against petitioner in respect of his salary,
petitioner sought a redetermination at the hands of the
Board of Tax Appeals. That board sustained the commissioner and decreed a deficiency against petitioner of
$256.27 for the year 1931. Upon review, the court below
affirmed the decree of the board. 85 F. (2d) 32. While
the sum involved is small, we granted the writ of certiorari because of the obvious importance of the question
involved.
The phrase "governmental functions," as it here is
used, has been qualified by this court in a variety of ways.
Thus, in South Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S. 437,
461, it was suggested that the exemption of state agencies
and instrumentalities from federal taxation was limited
to those which were of a strictly governmental character,
and did not extend to those used by the state in carrying
on an ordinary private business. In Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107, 172, the immunity from taxation was
related to the essential governmental functions of the
state. In Helvering v. Powers, 293 U. S. 214, 225, we said
that the state "cannot withdraw sources of revenue from
the federal taxing power by engaging in businesses which
constitute a departure from usual governmental functions and to which, by reason of their nature, the federal
taxing power would normally extend." And immunity is
not established because the state has the power to engage

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

in the business for what the state conceives to be the
public benefit. Idem. In United States v. California,
297 U. S. 175, 185,, the suggested limit of the federal taxing power was in respect of activities in which the states
have traditionally engaged.
In the present case, upon the one side, stress is put
upon the adjective "essential," as used in the Flint v.
Stone Tracy case, while, on the other side, it is contended
that this qualifying adjective must be put aside in favor
of what is thought to be the greater reach of the word
"usual," as employed in the Powers case. But these differences in phraseology, and the others just referred to,
must not be too literally contradistinguished. In neither
of the cases cited, was the adjective used as an exclusive
or rigid delimitation. For present purposes, however,
we shall inquire whether the activity here in question
constitutes an essential governmental function within the
proper meaning of that term; and in that view decide
the case.
There probably is no topic of the law in respect of
which the decisions of the state courts are in greater conflict and confusion than that which deals with the differentiation between the governmental and corporate
powers of municipal corporations. This condition of conflict and confusion is confined in the main to decisions
relating to liability in tort for the negligence of officers
and agents of the municipality. In that field, no definite
rule can be extracted from the decisions.' It is true that
'This is brought out in a careful and detailed review by Professor
Borchard in that portion of his general 'discussion of "Government
Liability in Tort" dealing with municipal corporations, to be found
in (1924-5) 34 Yale L. J. 129-143, 229-258, in the course of which

he says (p. 129): "Disagreement among the courts as to many customary municipal acts and functions may almost be said to be more
common than agreement and the elaboration of the varying justifications for their classification is even less satisfying to any demand for
principle in the law. Indeed, so hopeless did the effort of the courts

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER.
352

Opinion of thc Court.

in most of the state courts, including those in the State
of New York, it is held that the operation of water works
falls within the category of corporate activities; and the
city's liability is affirmed in tort actions arising from negligence in such operation. But the rule in respect of such
cases, as we pointed out in Trenton v. New Jersey, 262
U. S. 182, 192, has been "applied to escape difficulties, in
order that injustice may not result from the recognition
of technical defenses based upon the governmental character of such corporations"; and the rule is hopelessly
indefinite, probably for that very reason.
This is not, however, an action for personal injuries
sounding in tort, but a proceeding which seeks in effect
to determine whether immunity from federal taxation, in
respect of the activity in question, attaches in favor of a
state-created .municipality-an objective so different in
character from that sought in a tort action as to suggest
caution in applying as the guide to a decision of the
former a local rule of law judicially adopted in order to
avoid supposed injustices which would otherwise result
in the latter. We have held, for example, that the sale
of motorcycles to a municipal corporation for use in its
police service is not subject to federal taxation, because
the maintenance of such a service is a governmental
function. Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283
U. S.570, 579. And while it is true that the weight of
authority in tort actions accords with that view, there
are state decisions which affirm the liability of a municipality for personal injury resulting from the negligence.
of its police officials under the circumstances presented
in the respective cases dealt with. 2 Nevertheless, our
to make an appropriate classification of functions appear to the
Supreme Court of South Carolina that they determined to abandon
the distinction between governmental and corporate acts."
2 See Herron v. Pittsburgh,204 Pa. 509, 513; 54 Atl. 311; Jones v.
Sioux City, 185 Iowa 1178, 1185; 170 N. W. 445; Twist v. Rochester,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Cotirt.

300 U. S.

decision in the Indian Motocycle case did not rest in the
slightest degree upon a consideration of the state rule in
respect of tort actions, but upon a broad consideration
of the implied constitutional immunity arising from the
dual character of our national and state governments.
The rule in respect of municipal liability in tort is a
ivcal matter; and whether it shall be strict or liberal
or denied altogether is for the state which created the
municipality alone to decide (Detroit v. Osborne, 135
U. S. 492, 497-498) -provided, of course, the Federal
Constitution be not infringed. But a federal-tax in respect of the activities of a state or a state agency is an.
imposition by one government upon the activities of another, and must accord with the implied federal requirement that state and local governmental functions be not
burdened thereby. So long as our present dual form of
government endures, the states, it must never be forgotten, "are as independent of the general government as
that government within its sphere is independent of the
States." Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 124. And, as
it was said in Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 725, and often
has been repeated-"the preservation of the States, and
the maintenance of their governments, are as much within the design and care of the Constitution as the preservation of the Union and the maintenance of the National
government." The unimpaired existence of both governments is equally essential. It is to that high end that
this court has recognized the rule, which rests upon necessary implication, that neither may tax the governmental
means and instrumentalities of the other. Collector v.
Day, supra, p. 127. In the light of these considerations,
it follows that the question here presented is not controlled by local law but is a question of national scope to
be resolved in harmony with implied constitutional prin55 N. Y. Supp. 850. Compare Kunz v. Troy, 104 N. Y. 344, 348;
10 N. E. 442, with Altvater v. Mayor of Baltimore, 31 Md. 462.

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER.
352

Opinion of the Court.

ciples of general application. Compare Workman v. New
York City, 179 U. S. 552, 557. This indicated dissimilarity constitutes a distinction which is fundamental; and
we put aside the state decisions in tort actions as inapposite. Compare Atlantic Cleaners & Dyers v. United
States, 286 U. S. 427, 433 et seq.
We thus come to a situation, which the courts have
frequently been called upon to meet, where the issue cannot be decided in accordance with an established formula,
but where points along the line "are fixed by decisions
that this or that concrete case falls on the nearer or
farther side." Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter,209 U. S.
349, 355. We are, of course, quite able to say that certain
functions exercised by a city are clearly governmentalthat is, lie upon the nearer side of the line-while others
are just as clearly private or corporate in character, and
lie upon the farther side. But between these two opposite classes, there is a zone of debatable ground within
which the cases must be put upon one side or the other
of the line by what this court has called the, gradual
process of historical and judicial "inclusion and exclusion." Continental Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry., 294
U. S. 648, 670, and cases cited.
We think, therefore, that it will be wise to confine, as
strictly as possible, the present inquiry to the necessities
of the immediate issue here involved, and not, by an attempt to formulate any general test, risk embarrassing
the decision of cases in respect of municipal activities of a
different kind which may arise in the future. Cf. Euclid
v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365, 397 Metcalf & Eddy
v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 523. In the case last named
we had occasion to point out the difficulty, albeit the
necessity, as cases arise within the doubtful zone, of drawing the line which separates those activities which have
some relation to government but are subject to taxation
from those which are immune. "Experience has shown,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

we said, "that there is no formula by which that line may
be plotted with precision in advance. But recourse may
be had tothe reason upon which the rule rests, and which
must be the guiding principle to control its operation.
Its origin was due to the essential requirement of our constitutional system that the federal government must exercise its authority within the territorial limits of the
states; and it rests on the conviction that each government, in order that it may administerits affairs within its
own sphere, must be left free from undue interference
by the other."
The public interest in the conservation and distribution
of water for a great variety of purpose--ranging from
ordinary agricultural, domestic and sanitary uses, to the
preservation of health and of lfe itself-is obvious and
well settled. For the modern city, such conservation and
distribution of water in sufficient quantity and in a state
of purity is as vital as air. And this vital necessity becomes more and more apparent and pressing as cities increase in population and density of population. It has
found, so far, its culminating point in the vast and
supreme needs of the City of New York.
One of the most striking illustrations of the public interest in the use of water and the governmental power to
deal with it is shown in legislation and judicial pronouncement with respect to the arid-land states of the
far west. In some of them, the state constitution asserts
public ownership of all unappropriated nonnavigable
waters. In Utah, while it was still a territory, a statute
conferred the right upon individual land owners to condenn rights-of-way across the lands of others in order to
convey water to the former for irrigation purposes, and
declared that such condemnation was for a "public use."
This court upheld the statute. Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S.
361. We said that what is a public use may depend upon

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER.
352

Opinion of the Court.

the facts surrounding the subject; pointed out the vital
need of water for irrigation in the arid-land states, a need
which did not exist in the states of the east and where,
consequently, a different rule obtained; and held that the
court must recognize the difference of climate and soil
which rendered necessary differing laws in the two groups
of states.
Many years ago, Congress, recognizing this difference,
passed the Desert Land Act (c. 107, 19 Stat. 377), by
which, among other things, the waters upon the public
domain in the arid-land states and territories were dedicated to the use of the public for irrigation and other
purposes. Following this act, if not before, all nonnavigable waters then on and belonging to that part of
the national domain became publici juris, subject to the
plenary control of the arid-land states and territories with
the right to determine to what extent the rule of appropriation or the common-law rule in respect of riparian
rights should obtain. California Oregon Power Co. v.
Beaver Cement Co., 295 U. S. 142, 155 et seq. And in
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 94, this court entertained and decided a controversy between two states involving the right of private appropriators in, Colorado to
divert waters for the irrigation of lands in that state from
a river naturally and customarily flowing into the State
of Kansas. It was held (p. 99) that such a controversy
rises "above a mere question of local private right and
involves a matter of state interest, and must be considered
from that standpoint." Cf. Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter,209 U. S. 349, 355; New Orleans Gas Co. v. Drainage Comm'n, 197 U. S. 453, 460; Houck v. Little River
District, 239 U. S. 254, 261.
In New Orleans v. Morris, 105 U. S. 600, 602, the city
had conveyed its water works to a corporation formed
for the purpose of maintaining and enlarging them.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

The city received as consideration shares of stock, which
a state statute declared should not be liable to seizure for
the debts of the city. It was held the statute did not
impair the obligation of any contract, since the shares
represented the city's ownership in the water works which
had, before the enactment of the statute, been exempted
from seizure and sale. This ruling was put upon the
ground that the water works were of such public utility
and necessity that they were held in trust for the use
of the citizens the same as public parks and public
buildings.
While these cases do not decide, they plainly suggest,
that municipal water works created and operated in
order to supply the needs of a city and its inhabitants
are public works and their operation essentially governmental in character. Other decisions of this court, however, more directly support that conclusion.
We recently have held that the bankruptcy statutes
could not be extended to municipalities or other political
subdivisions of a state. Ashton v. Cameron County Water District, 298 U. S. 513. The respondent there was a
water-improvement district organized by law to furnish
water for irrigation and domestic uses. We said (pp. 527528) that respondent was a political subdivision of the
state "created for the local exercise of her sovereign
powers, . . . Its fiscal affairs are those of the State, not
subject to control or interference by the National Government, unless the right so to do is definitely accorded
by the Federal Constitution." In support of that holding, former decisions of this court with respect to the immunity of states and municipalities from federal taxation
were relied upon as apposite. The question whether the
district exercised governmental or merely corporate functions was distinctly in issue. The petition in bankruptcy
alleged that the district was created with power to perform "the proprietary and/or corporate function of fur-

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER.
352

Opinion of the Court.

nishing water for irrigation and domestic uses.. .' The
district judge held that the district was created for the
local exercise of state sovereign powers; that it was exercising "a governmental function"; that its property was
public property; that it was not carrying on private business, but public business. That court, having denied the
petition for want of jurisdiction, the district submitted a
motion for a new trial in which it assigned, among other
things, that the court erred in holding that petitioner was
created for the purpose of performing governmental functions, "for the reason that the Courts of Texas, as well
as the other Courts in the Nation, have uniformly held
that the furnishing of water for irrigation was purely a
proprietary function . . ." Substantially the same thing
was repeated in other assignments of error. In the petition for rehearing in this court, the district challenged our
determination that respondent was a political subdivision of the state "created for the local exercise
of her sovereign powers," and asserted to the contrary
that the facts would demonstrate that "respondent is a
corporation organized for essentially proprietary purposes." It isnot open to dispute that the statements
quoted from our opinion in the Ashton case were made
after due consideration, and the case itself decided and
the rehearing denied in the light of the issue thus definitely presented. Compare Bingham v. United States,
296 U. S.211, 218-219.
"No higher police duty rests upon municipal authority," this court said in Columbus v. Mercantile Trust Co.,
218 U. S. 645, 658, "than that of furnishing an ample
supply of pure and wholesome water for public and domestic uses. The preservation of the health of the community is best obtained by the discharge of this duty, to
say nothing of the preservation of property from fire, -so
constant an attendant upon crowded, conditions of municipal life."
130607°-37-24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

In Dunbar v. New York City, 251 U. S. 516, we sustained a charter provision giving a lien for water charges
upon a building in which the water had been used, although the charges had been incurred by tenants and not
by the owner, saying-"And as a supply of water is necessary it is only an ordinary and legal exertion of government to provide means for its compulsory compensation."
In German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Home Water Co., 226
U. S. 220, the City of Spartanburg had entered into a
contract with the respondent by which the latter was
empowered to supply the city and its inhabitants with
water suitable for fire, sanitary and domestic purposes.
The petitioner had issued a policy of fire insurance upon
certain property, which was destroyed by fire. It paid
the amount of the loss, and took an assignment from the
insured of all claims and demands against any person
arising from or connected with the loss. It brought suit
against the respondent on the ground that the fire could
easily have been extinguished if respondent had complied
with its contract. This court held that the action was
not maintainable for reasons which appear in the opinion.
The city, it was said, was under no legal obligation to furnish water; and it did not subject itself to a new or
greater liability because it voluntarily undertook to do so
(pp. 227-228). "It acted in a governmental capacity,
and was no more responsible for failure in that respect
than it would have been for failure to furnish adequate
police protection."
We conclude that the acquisition and distribution of a
supply of water for the needs of the modern city involve
the exercise of essential governmental functions, and this
conclusion is fortified by a consideration of the public
uses to which the water is put. Without such a supply,
public schools, public sewers so necessary to preserve
health, fire departments, street sprinkling and cleaning,
public buildings, parks, playgrounds, and public baths,

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER.
352

Opinion of the Court.

could not exist. And this is equivalent, in a very real
sense, to saying that the city itself would then disappear.
More than one-fourth of the water furnished by the city
of New York, we are told by the record, is utilized for
these public purposes. Certainly, the maintenance of
public schools, a fire department, a system of sewers,
parks and public buildings, to say nothing of other public
facilities ad uses, calls for the exercise of governmental
functions. And so far as these are concerned, the water
supply is a necessary auxiliary, and, therefore, partakes
of their nature. New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299
U. S. 401, 406. Moreover, the health and comfort of the
city's population of 7,000,000 souls, and in some degree
their very existence, are dependent upon an adequate
supply of pure and wholesome water. It may be, as it is
suggested, that private corporations would be able and
willing to undertake to provide a supply of water for all
purposes; but if the State and City of New York be of
opinion, as they evidently are, that the service should not
be entrusted to private hands but should be rendered by
the city itself as an appropriate means of discharging its
duty to protect the health, safety and lives of its inhabitants, we do not doubt that it may do so in the exercise
of its essential governmental functions.
We find nothing that detracts from this view in the
fact that in former times the business of furnishing water
to urban communities, including New York, in fact was
left largely, or even entirely, to private enterprise. The
tendency for many years has been in the opposite direction, until now in nearly all the larger cities of the country the duty has been assumed by the municipal authorities. Governmental functions are not to be regarded as
non-existent because they are held in abeyance, or because
they lie dormant, for a time. If they be by their nature
governmental, they are none the less so because the use
of them has had a recent beginning.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

The principle finds illustration in our decision in Shoemaker v. United States, 147 U. S. 282, 297, where it was
held that land taken by an exercise of the power of eminent domain for the establishment of Rock Creek Park in
the District of Columbia was taken for a public use, and
that the amount required to be paid was validly assessed
upon lands in the district specially benefited thereby.
At the beginning of the opinion in that case, this court
said: "In the memory of men now living, a proposition
to take private property, without the consent of its owner,
for a public park, and to assess a proportionate part of
the cost upon real estate benefited thereby, would have
been regarded as a novel exercise of legislative power."
It was pointed out that Central Park in New York was
the first place provided for the inhabitants of any city
or town in the United States as a pleasure ground for rest
and exercise in the open air, but that in 1892, when the
opinion was written, there was scarcely a city of any,
considerable size in the country that did not have, or had'
not projected, such parks.
'I
Respondent contends that the municipality, in supplying water to its inhabitants, is engagcd in selling water
for profit; and seems to think that this, if true, stamps
the operation as private and not governmental in character. We first pause to observe that the overhead due
to the enormous cost of the system, and the fact that
so large a proportion'of the water is diverted for public
use, rather plainly suggests that no real profit is likely to
result. And to say that, because the city makes a charge
for furnishing water to private consumers, it follows that
the operation of the water works is corporate and not
governmental, is to beg the question. What the city is
engaged in doing in that respect is rather rendering a
service, than selling a commodity. If that service be
governmental it does not become private because a charge
is made for it, or a profit realized. A state, for example,

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER.
352

Opinion of the Court.

constructs and operates a highway. It may, if it choose,
exact compensation for its use from those who travel
over it (see Bingaman v. Golden Eagle Lines, 297 U. S.
626, 628); but this does not destroy the claim that the
maintenance of the highway is a public and governmental
function. The state or the city may exact a tuition
charge for instruction in the public schools; but thereby
the maintenance of the public schools does not cease to
be a function of the government. The state exacts a fee
for issuing a license or granting a permit; for recording a
deed; for rendering a variety of services in the judicial
department. Do these various services thereby lose their
character as governmental functions? The federal PostOffice Department charges for its services; but no one
would question the fact that its operation calls into
exercise a governmental function.
The contention is made that our decisions in South
Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 461, 462, and
Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 172, are to the
effect that the supplying of water is not a governmental
function; but in neither case was that question in issue,
and what was said by the court was wholly unnecessary
to the disposition of the cases and merely by way of
illustration. Expressions of that kind may be respected,
but do not control in a subsequent case when the precise
point is presented for decision. Osaka Shosen Kaisha
Line v. United States, ante, pp. 98, 103, and authorities
cited. The precise point is presented here, has been
fully considered, and is decided otherwise. Neither Ohio
v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 360, nor Helvering v. Powers, 293
U. S. 214, relied upon by respondent, is in point. What
has already been said distinguishes those cases from the
one now under consideration.
We have not failed to give careful consideration to
Blair v. Byers, 35 F. (2d) 326, and Denman v. Commissioner, 73 F. (2d) 193, both of which take a view con-

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

300 U. S.

trary to that which we have expressed. To the extent of
this conflict, those cases are disapproved. Both rely on
South Carolinav. United States and Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., supra, which we have already distinguished.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO, coilcurring in the result:
We concur in the result upon the ground that the petitioner has brought himself within the terms of the exemption prescribed by Treasury Regulation 74, Article
643, which for the purposes of this case may be accepted
as valid, its validity not being challenged by counsel for
the Government.
In the absence of such a challenge no opinion is expressed as to the need for revision of the doctrine of implied immunities declared in earlier decisions.
We leave that subject open.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

dissenting:

I regret that I am unable to concur in the opinion of
the court. I think that the judgment should be affirmed.
There is no occasion now to discuss the dual character
of our form of government, and the consequent dual allegiance of a citizen of a state to his state and to the
United States, to elaborate the thesis that the integrity
of each government is to be maintained against invasions
by the other, or to reiterate that the implied immunity
of the one from taxation by the other springs from the
necessity that neither shall, by the exercise of the power
to tax, burden, hinder or destroy the operation or existence of the other. There is universal recognition of
the truth of these tenets, and of their fundamental relation to the preservation of the constitutional framework
of the nation. Our difficulties arise, not in their statement
as guiding principles, but, as in this instance, in their application to specific cases.

BRUSHd v. COMMISSIONER.
352

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

The frank admissions of counsel at the bar concerning
the confusion and apparent inconsistency in admihistrative rulings as to the taxability of compensation of municipal employees seems to call for an equally candid
statement that our decisions in the same field have not
furnished the executive a consistent rule of action. The
need of equitable and uniform administration of tax laws,
national and state, and the just demand of the citizen
that the rules governing the enforcement of those laws
shall be ascertainable require an attempt at rationalization and restatement.
It seems to me that the reciprocal rights and immunities of the national and a state government may be safeguarded by the observance of two limitations upon their
respective powers of taxation. These are that the exactions of the one must not discriminate against the means
and instrumentalities of the other -and must not directly
burden the operations of that other. " To state these
canons otherwise: an exaction by either government
which hits the means or instrumentalities of the other
infringes the principle of immunity if it discriminates
against them and in favor of private citizens or if the
burden of the tax be palpabe -and direct rather than hypothetic and remote. Tested by these criteria the imposition of the challenged -tax in the instant case was
lawful. .
The petitioner is a citizen of New York. By virtue of
that status he is also-acditizen of the United States. He
owes allegiance to-d-each government. He derives income
from the exercise of his profession. His obligation as a
citizen is to contribute to- the support of the governments under whose joint protection he lives and pursues
his calling. His liability to-fulfill that obligation to the
national government by payment of income tax upon his
salary would be unquestioned were it not for the character of his employer. If the water works of New York

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

300 U. S.

City were operated by a private corporation under a
public franchise and if the petitioner held a like position
with the corporation, there could be no question that the
imposition of a federal income tax, measured by his compensation, would be justified. If petitioner, instead of
holding a so-called official position under the municipal
government of New York City, were consulted from time
to time with respect to its water problems his compensation would be subject to income tax. (Metcalf & Eddy
v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514.) He is put into an untaxable
class upon the theory that as an official of the municipality, which in turn is an arm of the state, he is an
"instrumentality" of the state, and to tax him upon his
salary is to lay a burden upon the state government
which, however trifling, is forbidden by the implied immunity of the state from burdens imposed by the United
States. The petitioner seeks to show the reality of the
supposed burden by the suggestion that if his salary and
the compensation of others employed by the city is subject to federal income tax, the municipality will be compelled to pay higher salaries in order to obtain the
services of such persons and the consequent aggregate
increase in outlay will entail a heavy financial load. We
know, however, that professional services are offered in
the industrial and business field; and that while there is
no hard and fast standard of compensation, and men
bargain for their rewards, salaries do bear some relation
to experience and ability. There is a market in which a
professional man offers his services and municipalities are
bidders in that market. We know further that those in
private employment holding positions comparable to that
of the petitioner pay a tax equal to that levied upon him.
It is clear that any consideration of the petitioner's immunity from federal income tax would be altogether
remote, impalpable and unascertainable in influencing

BRUSH v. COMMISSIONER.
352

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

him to accept a position under the municipality rather
than under a private employer.
In reason and logic it is difficult to differentiate the
present case from that of a private citizen who furnishes
goods, performs work or renders service to a state or a
municipality under a contract or an officer or employe
of a corporation which does the same. Income tax on
the compensation paid or the profit realized is a necessary
cost incident to the performance of the contract and as
such must be taken into account in fixing the consideration demanded of the city government. In quite
as real a sense, as in this case, the taxation of income of
such persons and, as well, the taxation of the corporation itself, lays a burden upon the funds of the state or
its agency. Nevertheless, the courts have repeatedly declared that the doctrine of immunity will not serve to
exempt such persons or corporations from the exaction.
The importance of the case arises out of the fact that
the claimed exemption may well extend to millions of
persons (whose work nowise differs from that of their
fellows in private enterprise) who are employed by
municipal subdivisions and districts throughout the nation and that, on the other hand, the powers of the states
to tax may be inhibited in the case of hundreds of thousands of similar employes of federal agencies of one sort
or another. Such exemptions from taxation ought to be
strictly limited. They are essentially unfair. They are
unsound because federal or state business ought to bear
its proportionate share of taxation in order that comparison may be made between the cost of conducting
public and private business.
We are here concerned only with the question of the
taxation of salaries or compensation received by those
rendering to a municipality services of the same kind as
are rendered to private employers and need not go be-

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

300 U. S.

yond the precise issue here presented. We have no concern with the exaction of a sales tax by the federal government on sales to a state government or one of its
subdivisions, or the reverse; we are not called upon to
define the power to levy taxes upon real property owned
by a state or by the national government. We have
no occasion to discuss the power of either government to
impose excise taxes upon transactions of the other or
upon the evidence of such transactions. Nor are we
called upon here to determine the validity of a nondiscriminatory tax upon the salary of a governmental officer
whose duties and functions have no analogue in the conduct of a business or the pursuit of a profession, but are
both peculiar to and essential to the operation of government. The sole question here is whether one performing work or rendering service of a type commonly done
or rendered in ordinary commercial life for gain is exempt
from the normal burden of a tax on that gain for the
support of the national government because his compensation is paid by a state agency instead of a private
employer. I think the imposition of a tax upon such gain
where, as here, the tax falls equally upon all employed in
like occupation, and where the supposed burden of the tax
upon state government is indirect, remote, and imponderable, is not inconsistent with the principle of immunity
inherent in the constitutional relation of state and nation.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS joins

in this opinion.

