14

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

estate in and to property." Brown v. Fletcher, supra;
Senior v. Braden, supra. See Bogert, "Trusts and
Trustees," vol. 1, § 183, pp. 516, 517; 17 Columbia Law
Review, 269, 273, 289, 290.
We conclude that the assignments were valid, that the
assignees thereby became the owners of.the specified
beneficial interests in the income, and that as to these
interests they and not the petitioner were taxable for
the tax years in question. The judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded
with direction to affirm the decision of the Board of Tax
Appeals.
Reversed.
HONEYMAN v. HANAN, EXECUTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 370. Argued January 14, 1937.--Decided February 1, 1937.
1. To constitute jurisdiction over an appeal from a state court, it
must appear, affirmatively from the record, not only that a federal
question was presented for decision to the highest court of the State
having jurisdiction, but that its decision of the federal question
was necessary to the determination of the cause. P. 18.
2. Whether these requirements have been met, is itself a federal
question.. Id.
3. In deciding whether it has jurisdiction, this Court must determine
whether a federal question was necessarily decided by the state
court; the determination must rest upon an examination of the
record; and while a certificate or statement by the state court
that a federal question has been presented to it and necessarily
passed upon may aid this Court in such examination of the record,
it cannot avail to foreclose the inquiry or to import a federal
question into the record. Id.
4. In. the exercise of appellate jurisdiction, this Court may make
s5'ch disposition of the case as justice shall require. A case may be
remanded to a state court to afford opportunity for an amendment
of the record appropriate to show definitely the precise nature
of the federal question, how it was raised, ahd the grounds of its

HONEYMAN v. HANAN.
14

Opinion of the Court.

disposition by the state court, to the end that this Court may be
able to decide whether a substantial question within its jurisdiction
was necessarily determined. P. 25.
271 N. Y. 564; 3 N. E. (2d) 186, judgment vacated.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment of the Supreme Court of New York, Appellate Division (246 App.
Div. 781; 285 N. Y. S. 527), which had affirmed a judgment of the Special Term dismissing the complaint in a
suit to recover a deficiency judgment on a collateral bond
which had been executed as additional security for a bond
and mortgage debt.
Mr. Robert B. Honeyman for appellant.
Mr. James S. Brown, Jr., with whom Messrs. Anthony
F. Tuozzo and William Gilligan were on the brief, for
appellee.
Mr. John F. X. McGohey, Assistant Attorney General
of New York, with whom Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General, Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, and
Mr. Benjamin Hefiner, Assistant Attorney General, were
on the brief, on behalf of the State of New York, as
amicus curiae, by special leave of Court, urging affirmance
of the judgment below.
By leave of Court, briefs were filed by Mr. Harold J.
Treanor, on behalf of the Real Estate Board of New
York, Inc., and by Mr. William Gilligan, as amici curiae,
urging affirmance of the judgment below.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE HUGHES delivered the opirion of
the Court.
Upon the filing of the jurisdictional statement, the appellee moved to dismiss the appeal upon the ground that
the decision of the federal question now raised was not
necessary to the determination of the cause. Rule 12,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

par. 3. Further consideration of the motion was postponed to the hearing upon the merits.
The record is brief. The guit was brought against
the executor of the estate of Herbert W. Hanan, deceased, to recover a deficiency judgment upon a bond
secured by a mortgage which had been foreclosed in an
earlier suit in which the- mortgaged property had been
sold and an application for a, deficiency judgment had
been refused. The judgment in the present suit dismissed the amended complaint upon the ground that it
did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.
The amended complaint alleged that in 1907 the John
H. Hanan Realty Company, with John H. Hanan, had
executed a bond for $118,000, and as collateral security
the John H. Hanan Realty Company had made a mortgage covering certain premises in the city of New York;
that later the bond and mortgage were assigned to John
H. Hanan; that in 1920 John H. Hanan, together with
Herbert W. Hanan (defendant's testator) and Addison
G. Hanan, had executed their joint and several bond
to the guardians of the estates of certain infants in the
sum of $60,000 and as collateral security therefor John
H. Ilanan had assigned to the obligees the bond and
mortgage first mentioned; and that thereafter the bond
of John 1f. Itanan. Herbert W. Hanan and Addison G.
Hanan had been assigned, together with the bond and
mortgage first mentioned, to the plaintiff.
A copy of the bond in suit was annexed. It recited that
it was executed as additional security for the payment
of the first mentioned bond and mortgage, upon which
the principal sum of $60,000 remained unpaid, and that
the time for payment had been extended as providedl in
a contemporaneous agreement. The condition of the obligation was the payment of that sum with interest as the

HONEYMAN v. HANAN.
14

Opinion of the Court.

same should become due and payable according to the
terms and conditions of the bond and mortgage first
mentioned and the extension agreement.
The amended complaint further alleged that the John
H. Hanan Realty Company had failed to comply with the
terms of the bond and mortgage first mentioned and had
failed to pay the taxes on the mortgaged premises or
the interest on the bond; that thereupon, in September,
1933, the plaintiff had brought an action to foreclose the
mortgage and that the defendant herein was a party to
that action; that pursuant to judgment therein the mortgaged premises were sold and the proceeds were applied
on account of the indebtedness due the plaintiff; that the
referee's report of sale was confirmed; that thereafter a
motion was "duly made for a deficiency judgment" which
was denied and the foreclosure action was discontinued
as to the defendant herein by the filing of a stipulation;
that the deficiency due the plaintiff was $58,523.35, upon
which $554.01 had been received by the plaintiff from
the receiver in the foreclosure action, leaving due
$57,969.34, which the decedent, Herbert W. Hanan,
became bound to pay.
The amended complaint and the motion to dismiss for
the insufficiency of its allegations contained no mention
of a federal question. The trial court granted the motion
with the mere statement that "The mortgage moratorium
laws apply to the facts alleged in the said complaint."
The judgment of dismissal was affirmed by the Appellate
Division without opinion. 246 App. Div. 781; 285
N. Y. S. 527. The Court of Appeals granted leave to
appeal and in May, 1936, affirmed the judgment, also
without opinion. 271 N. Y. 564;. 3 N. E. (2d) 186. In
the entire progress of the cause to this point of determination by the highest court of the State, the record discloses no reference to a federal question.
130607°-37-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

In June, 1936, upon motion, the Court of Appeals
amended its remittitur by adding the following:
"A question under the Federal Constitution was presented and necessarily passed upon by this court. The
plaintiff contended that chapter 794 of the Laws of the
State of New York, enacted in 1933, as amended (Sections 1083-a and 1083-b of Civil Practice Act), impair
the obligations of contracts, and thus violate Article I,
Section 10, of the Constitution of the United States.
This court held that such laws do not violate said provision of Article I, Section 10, of the Constitution of the
United States." 271 N. Y. 662; 3 N. E. (2d) 473.
It is solely upon this statement in the amended remittitur that we are asked to review the judgment and
to pass upon the constitutionality of the state statute.
We are not aided by any discussion by the state court of
the question thus described, or by its explication or construction of the statute cited, or by a statement of the
particular application of the statute to which the paragraph in the amended remittitur is addressed.
Before we may undertake to review a decision of the
court of a State it must appear affirmatively from the
record, not only that the federal question was presented
for decision to the highest court of the State having jurisdiction but that its decision of the federal question was
necessary to the determination of the cause. Lynch v.
New York ex rel. Pierson, 293 U. S. 52, 54, and cases
there cited. Whether these requirements have been met
is itself a federal question. As this Court must decide
whether it has jurisdiction in a particular case, this
Court must determine whether the federal question was
necessarily passed upon by the state court. That determination must rest upon an examination of the record.
A certificate or statement by the state court' that a fed'As to the insufficiency of a certificate by the chief justice or pre-

siding justice of the state court, see Railroad Co. v. Rock, 4 Wall.

HONEYMAN v. HANAN.
14

Opinion of the Court.

eral question has been presented to it and necessarily
passed upon is not controlling. While such a-certificAte
or statement may aid this Court in the examination of
the record, it cannot avail to foreclose the inquiry which
it is our duty to make or to import into the record a
federal question which otherwise the record wholly fails
to present.
In Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v. Buckingham's
Executors, 5 How. 317, this Court was asked to decide
a question which was said to be presented under the contract clause with respect to the validity of a statute of
Ohio. The Supreme Court of that State entered upon
its record an elaborate certificate stating that the validity
of the statute was drawn in question upon the ground
that as applied to the charter of the plaintiffs in error
it "impaired the obligations thereof, and Was repugnant
to the constitution of the United States, and that the
decision of this court [the Ohio court] was in favor of
the validity of the said act of thf legislature as so applied." Notwithstanding the certificate, the case was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Id., p. 343. .The
Court said:
"It is not enough, that the record shows that 'the
plaintiff in error contended and claimed' that the judgment of the court impaired the obligation of a contract,
and violated the provisions of the constitution of the
United States, and 'that this claim was overruled by the
court'; but it must appear, by clear and necessary intendment, that the question must have been raised, and
177, 178, 180; Powell v..Brunswick Cowity, 150 U. S. 433, 439;
Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180, 183; Henkel v. Cincinnati, 177
U. S. 170, 171; Home for Incurablesv. New York, 187 U. S. 155, 158;
Fullerton v. Texas, 196 U. S. 192, 194; Louisville & Nashville R.
Co. v. Smith, Huggins & Co., 204 U. S. 551, 561; Seaboard Air Line
Ry. v. Duvall, 225 U. S. 477, 481; Connectic'ut General Life Ins. Co. v.
Johnson, 296 U. S. 535; Purcell v. New York Central R. Co., 296
U. S. 545.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

must have been decided, in order to induce the judgment.
Let us inquire, then, whether it appears on the face of
this record, that the validity of a statute of Ohio, 'on the
ground of its repugnancy to the constitution or laws of
the United States' was drawn in question in this case."
Id., p. 341.
Pursuing that essential inquiry, the Court found that
the question decided by the state court was one of the
construction of the statute and not of its validity.
In Lawler v. Walker, 14 Hew. 149, the Supreme Court
of Ohio certified that the validity of statutes of the State
had been drawn in question as being in violation of the
Federal Constitution and that the court had held the
statutes to be valid. The certificate in that case was
found to be vague and indefinite but the Court also restated the above-quoted ruling of Commercial Bank of
Cincinnativ. Buckingham's Executors, supra. While in
Parmelee v. Lawrence, 11 Wall. 36, the certificate was
made by the presiding judge of the state court and not
by the court itself, we took occasion to say:
"We will add, if this court should entertain jurisdiction
upon a certificate alone in the absence of any evidence of
the question in the record, then the Supreme Court of
the State can give the jurisdiction in every case where
the question is made by counsel in the argument. The
office of the certificate, as it respects the Federal question, is to make more certain and specific what is too
general and indefinite in the record, but it is incompetent
to originate the question within the true construction
of the 25th section [of the Judiciary Act]." Id., p. 39.
This statement was quoted with approval in Powell
v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433,-439.
The case of Brown v. Atwell, 92 U. S.327, affords another illustration of the rule. The judgment was rendered in the' Court of Appeals of New York and an entry
was made in its record that on the argument of the

HONEYMAN v. HANAN.
14

Opinion of the Court.

appeal it was claimed by the appellant that the Act of
Congress of 1836, known as the Patent Act, governed
the effect of the several transfers relating to the letters
patent appearing in the case, and that the court had
decided against the claims urged under that act. This
Court observed that, until the certificate of the Court of
Appeals, it nowhere appeared in the record that any
question was raised as to the effect of the patent laws
upon the title under consideration. And the Court said
(id., pp. 329, 330):
"We have often decided that it is not enough to give
us jurisdiction over the judgments of the State courts
for the record to show that a Federal question was argued
or presented to that court for decision. It must appear
that its decision was necessary to the determination of
the cause, and that it was actually decided, or that the
judgment as rendered could not have been given without
deciding it. Commercial National Bank of Cincinnati
v. Buckingham's Executors, 5 How. 341; Lawler et al. v.
Walker et al., 14 id. 154; R. R. Co. v. Rock, 4 Wall.
180; Parmelee v. Lawrence, 11 id. 38.
"The same cases also establish the further rule, that
'the office of the certificate, as it respects the Federal
question, is to make more specific and certain that which
is too general and indefinite in the record, but is incompetent to originate the question'."
The Court found that the record did not present the
federal question to which the certificate referred and the
case was accordingly dismissed.
The rule was succinctly stated in Rector v. City Deposit Bank Co., 200 U. S. 405, 412, as follows:
"It is elementary that the certificate of a court of last
resort of a State may not import a Federal question into
a record where otherwise such question does not arise, it
is equally elementary that such a certificate may serve
to elucidate the determination whether a Federal question exists."

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Thus the true function of a certificate or statement of
a state court, by way of amendment of, or addition to,
the record, is to aid in the understanding of the record,
to clarify it by defining the federal question with reasonable precision and by showing how the question was
raised and decided, so that this Court upon the record
as thus clarified may be able to see that the federal question was properly raised and was necessarily determined.
Our decisions in cases where certificates have been found
useful should be read in the light of that fundamental
consideration.. In Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S. 212, 223,
as explained in Consolidated Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk &
Ocean View Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 596, 599, there was "a
record disclosure of the existence of the Federal question," which was also certified. In the latter case it was
assumed that the certificate, made by order of the state
court, operated to show that some federal question was
decided, but on examining the record this Court found
the question to be unsubstantial and denied rehearing,
the case having previously been dismissed for want of
jurisdiction. Id., p. 603. The record in Cincinnati
Packet Co. v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179, 182, showed that the
federal question had been raised and the certificate aided
in disclosing that the question was not treated as having
been raised too late under the local procedure, a point
upon which the state court was the judge. Applying
the rule, in Rector v. City Deposit Bank Co., supra, the
Court coriluded that as the suit was brought b a trustee
in bankruptcy by virtue of the authority conferred upon
him by the act of Congress the certificate made "clear
the effect, if it were otherwise doubtful, that rights under
the bankrupt law were relied upon and passed upon below." See, also, Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S.,
238, 243, 244. It was in the light of these decisions that
the question was presented in Whitney v. California, 274
U. S. 357, 360-362. The writ of error had been dismissed

HONEYMAN v. HANAN.
14

23 ,

Opinion of the Court.

for want of jurisdiction (269. U. S. 530) and a motion
for rehearing was granted. Id., p. 538. The Court of
Appeal of the State, as an addition to the record, entered
an order stating that the question whether the California
Criminal Syndicalism Act and its application were repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution was considered and passed upon by the court.
While this Court said that the record did not show that
the defendant had raised or the state court had decided
a federal question except as it appeared from that order,
the record did disclose facts indicating the presence of the
federal question which the order of the state court said
was actually presented and decided, and accordingly
jurisdiction was entertained. And it has been in riecognition of the established principle governing the exercise
of our jurisdiction, and not as a departure from it, that
we have said that opportunity might be afforded upon
seasonable application to obtain a certificate from the
state court where it appeared that an appropriate certificate might lead to a better understanding of the
record. See Lynch v. New York ex rel. Pierson, supra;
InternationalSteel Co. v. Surety Co., 297 U. S. 657, 662.
In some of the cases cited above, we found from our
examination of the record that, notwithstanding the certificate, the decision of the state court rested upon an
adequate non-federal ground and hence we were without
jurisdiction. See Commercial Bank of Cincinnati v.
Buckingham's Executors, supra; Brown v. Atwell, supra;
Powell v. Brunswick County, supra. A similar result
follows where, even assuming that the state ourt has
formally determined a federal question, it does not appear
to have been a substantial one. See Consolidated Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk & Ocean View Ry. Co., supra. In
other cases an examination of the record has left the
Court in doubt as to what has actually been determined.
That is the situation in the present case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

The appellee points to the provision of § 1078 of the
Civil Practice Act of New York (enacted long before the
so-called moratorium acts) that, after final judgment for
the plaintiff in a foreclosure action, no other action shall
be maintained to recover any part of the mortgage debt
without leave of the court in which the former action
was brought. In the instant case the amended complaint does not allege that such leave was obtained. We
are also advised of decisions by the state court, prior to
the one here sought to be reviewed, construing Chapter
794 of the Laws of New York of 1933 (§§ 1083-a and
1083-b of the Civil Practice Act) to which the amended
remittitur refers. That act (§ 1083-a) forbids a judgment for any residue of the debt, remaining unsatisged
after sale of the mortgaged property, except as therein
provided. Provision is made for an application by the
creditor in the foreclosure action for leave to enter a
deficiency judgment, and thereupon the court is to determine the fair and reasonable market value of the mortgaged premises and is to make an order directing the
entry of a deficiency judgment, which is to be for an
amount equal to that remaining due less the market
value as determined or the sale price of the property
whichever shall be the higher; and if no motion for a
deficiency judgment is thus made, the proceeds of the
foreclosure sale are to be regarded as full satisfaction of
the mortgage debt "and no right to recover any deficiency in any action or proceeding shall exist." Section
1083-b provides that in actions, other than foreclosure
actions, to recover for an indebtednqss secured solely by
a mortgage on real property and originating simultaneously with such mortgage and secured thereby, against
any one "directly or indirectly or contingently liable
therefor," the party against whom the money judgment
is demanded shall be entitled to set off the reasonable
market value of the mortgaged property less prior liens.

HONEYMAN v. HANAN.
14

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals had sustained the constitutional
validity of this legislation which would seem to be applicable to an action upon a collateral bond such as that
described in the amended complaint herein. See Klinke
v. Samuels, 264 N. Y. 144; City Bank Farmers Trust Co.
v. Ardlea Incorporation,267 N. Y. 224.
With these recent decisions in mind, it may be, as has
been suggested, that the Court of Appeals considered the
federal question, which it described in the amended remittitur as relating to the validity of §§ 1083-a and
1083-b, to be no more than a challenge of the requirement that the right to a deficiency judgment should be
heard and determined in the foreclosure action, and sustained the validity of that requirement, without reviewing, or deeming it necessary to review, the questions
which could have been raised, and if properly raised
could have been brought to this Court in the foreclosure
action to which both the plaintiff and defendant herein
had been parties. Whether this view of the action of
the state court is the correct one, we are unable satis-.
factorily to determine. If its decision was in truth based
upon the theory that by a proper construction of the
statute or for any other reason the extent of the deficiency
or the right to recover it had been finally determined in a
prior litigation, there was no longer a necessity to inquire
whether the statute would be constitutional in its application to a different case-a case lacking the feature of
any prior determination-, and an answer to that inquiry would be superfluous, even if attempted.
In the exercise of our appellate jurisdiction we have
power not only to correct errors in the judgment under
review but to make such disposition of the case as justice
requires. We have applied this principle to cases coming from state courts where supervening changes had occurred since the entry of the judgment; and where the
record failed adequately to state the -facts underlying

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

300 U. S.

the decision of the federal question. See Patterson v.
Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 607; Villa v. Van Schaick, 299
U. S. 152. We have afforded an opportunity for appropriate presentation of the question by an amendment of
the record as the state court might be advised. Villa v.
Van Schaick, supra. We think that a similar opportunity should be accorded here in order that uncertainty
may be removed and that the precise nature of the federal question, how it was raised and the grounds of its
disposition, may be definitely set forth, so that we may be
able to decide whether a substantial question within our
-jurisdiction has necessarily been determined.
For that purpose the judgment is vacated and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings.
Judgment vacated.

O'CONNOR

ET AL. v. MILLS ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 442.

Submitted January 12, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. Paragraph (k) of § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act makes A § 24
and 25 of the Act applicable to appeals from orders and judgments entered in reorganization proceedings under § 77B. P. 27.
2. A judgment of the District Court disapproving and dismissing
a petition for reorganization of a corporation under § 77B of
the Bankruptcy Act is in the same category, for the purposes
of appeal, as a judgment refusing to adjudge the defendant a
bankrupt, and under § 25 (a), cl.(1) is appealable as of right to
the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 27.
85 F. (2d) 1017, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 299

U. S.536, to review an order dismissing

an appeal.

Mr. J. A. Tellier submitted for petitioners.
Mr. J. W. House submitted for respondents.

