HILL v. U. S. EX REL. WEINER.
Opinion of the Court.
HILL, WARDEN, v. UNITED STATES -EX REL.
WEINER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 171.

Argued January 11, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. The provision of § 22 of the Clayton Act fixing a term of six
months as the maximum penalty of imprisonment for contempt,
is limited to prosecutions arising out of cases instituted by private
litigants, and is inapplicable to Contempts arising out of suits
brought or prosecuted in the name of, or on behalf of, the United
States. These, by § 24, are excepted from the provisions of §§ 21,
22, 23, and 25. P. 108.
2. The due process clause of the Fifth Amendment does not preclude
Congress from prescribing a heavier penalty for an offense involving the rights and 1roperty of the United States than for a similar
offense involving the rights or property of a private person. P. 109.
84 F. (2d) 27, reversed.
CFRTIORARI, 299 U. S.526, to review a judgment affirming an order of the District Court, 11 F. Supp. 195, discharging the relator upon a writ of habeas corpus.

Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, with whom
Solicitor General Reed, and Messrs. Wendell Berge and
Walter L. Rice were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Seth W. Richardson,with whom Messrs. Samuel H.
Kaufman and Eugene M. Parter were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The relator, Weiner, was convicted in a federal district court of violating a decree entered against him and
numerous others by that court in a suit in equity brought
by the United States under the Sherman Anti-trust Act,
Title 15 U. S. C., §§ 1, 2, 4. He, with others, was charged

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

by information with the commission of several specified
acts in violation of the decree, constituting criminal contempts. Upon a trial before the court sitting without a
jury, he.was found guilty and sentenced for certain of the
contempts to imprisonment for six months in the House
of Detention, and for other contempts for two years additional in the penitentiary. Upon his application and
consent, the first part of the sentence was increased from
six months in the House of Detention to a year and a day
in the penitentiary, but to run concurrently with the
two'years' imprisonment.
On June 5, 1935, he was committed to the penitentiary.
At the end of eleven months, he. applied by petition to'
another federal district court to be discharged 9i habeas
corpus, on the ground that the first court was 'without
power to sentence him for a period of more than six
months; and, having served that long, that he was entitled to be set at liberty.
The district court accepted that view, granted the writ,
and ordered the relator discharged. 11 F. Supp. 195.
Upon appeal, the court below affirmed the order. 84 F.
(2d) 27.
The case involves a consideration of §§ 21, 22 and
24 of the Clayton Act, Title 28 U. S. C. § § 386, 387 and
389.* Section 21, so far. as pertinent, provides that any
person who shall willfully disobey any lawful decree of
the federal district court by doing any act or thing
thereby forbidden to be done by him, if of a character
to constitute also a, criminal offense under any statute
SEC. 21. Any person who shall willfully disobey any lawful writ,
process,- order, rule, decree, or command of any district court of
the United States or any court of the District of Columbia by doing
any act or thing therein, or thereby forbidden to be done by him, if
the act or thing so done by him be of such character as to constitute
also a criminal offense under any statute of the United States or
under the laws of any State in which the act was committed, shall

HILL v. U. S.

EX REL.

WEINER.

Opinion of the Court.

105

of the United States or laws of any state in which the
act was committed, shall be proceeded against as thereafter provided. Section 22 provides for trial by the court
or, upon demand of the accused, by a jury. If found
guilty, punishment is to be either by fine or imprisonment or both, in the discretion of the court, "but in no
case shall the fine to be paid to the United States exceed,
in case the accused is a natural person, the sum of $1,000,
nor shall such imprisonment exceed the term of six
months." Section 24, however, provides that "nothing
herein contained [§§ 21, 22, 23, 251 shall be construed
to relate to contempts committed in disobedience of any
lawful

.

.

.

decree

.

.

.

entered in any suit or

action brought or prosecuted in the name of, or on behalf
be proceeded against for his said contempt as hereinafter provided.
Title 28 U. S. C. § 386.
SEC. 22. . . . In all cases within the purview of this Act such
trial may be by the court, or, upon demand of the accused, by a
jury; . . .
If the accused be found guilty, judgment shall be entered accordingly, prescribing the punishment, either by fine or imprisonment, or
both, in the discretion of the court. Such fine shall be paid to the
United States or to the complainant or other party injured by the act
constituting the contempt, or may, where more than one is so damaged, be divided or apportioned among them as the court may direct,
but in no case shall the fine to be paid to the United States exceed,
in case the accused is a natural person, the sum of $1,000, nor shall
such imprisonment exceed the term of six months. Title 28 U. S. C.
§ 387.
SEC. 24. Nothing herein, contained [that is in §§ 21, 22, 23, 25]
shall be construed to relate to contempts committed in the presence
of the court, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of
justice, nor to contempts committed in disobedience of any lawful
writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command entered in any suit
or action brought or prosecuted in the name of, or on behalf of, the
United States, but the same, and all other cases of contempt not
specifically embraced within section twenty-one of this Act, may be
punished in conformity to the usages at law and in equity prevailing
on October 15. 1914. Title 28 U. S. C. § 389.

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
. Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

of, the United States, but the same, and all other cases
of contempt not specifically embraced within section
twenty-one

.

.

.

may be punished in conformity to

the usages at law and in equity prevailing on October
15, 1914." If § 24 applies, the sentence was within the
statutory authority of the court.
First. The court below held, and relator here contends, that the limitation of imprisonment to six months
is not affected by the provisions of § 24. A similar
question was before this court in United States v. Goldman, 277 U. S. 229, and was there decided contrary to
the views of the court below. In that case, an information was presented by the United States to a federal
district court, charging Goldman and others with criminal contempts committed by acts in violation of an injunction decreed by that court in an equity suit brought
by the United, States. The information was dismissed
on the ground that under § 25 of the Clayton Act, the
prosecution was barred by the statute of limitations.
This court reversed. Section 25 provides that no proceeding for contempt shall be instituted unless begun
within one year of the act complained of; but we held
that the specific exception contained in § 24-"nothing
herein 6ontained"-applied to all provisions of the act
relating to prosecutions for criminal contempts, and
therefore applied to § 25, "as well as to the other sections," and that the one-year limitation prescribed by
§ 25 was without application to a case brought for the
disobedience of a decree entered in a suit prosecuted by
the United States.
That decision controls here. The object of § 24 clearly
was to limit the application of the provisions of § 22,
and the other sections named, to prosecutions for contempt arising 'out of cases instituted by private litigants.
Second. We find nothing in the further contention
that this view of the statute results in a discrimination

MIDLAND CO. v. K. C. POWER CO.
105

Syllabus.

in the matter of punishment so arbitrary as to deny due
process of law to relator. Whatever may be the restraint
against discriminatory legislation imposed by the due
process of law clause of the Fifth Amendment, it is not
encountered by the legislation here. The constitutional
power of Congress to prescribe greater punishment for
an offense involving the rights and property of thb
United States than for a like offense involving the rights
or property of a private person reasonably cannot be
doubted. Compare Pace v. Alabama, 106 U. S. 583.
Judgment reversed.
MIDLAND REALTY CO. v. KANSAS CITY
POWER & LIGHT CO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 217. Argued December 17, 1936.-Decided February 1, 1937.
1. As construed by the state supreme court, which construction binds
this Court upon appeal, rates established pursuant to the provi-.

sions of the public service commission law of Missouri (R. S., 1929,
c. 33) supersede all existing contract rates. P. 113.
2. A State has power to annul and supersede rates previously established by contract between public utilities and their customers.
P. 113.
3. The public service commission law of Missouri does not violate
the contract clause of the Federal Constitution (Art. I, § 10) or
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, although, as
construed by the state supreme court, existing contract rates are
abrogated thereunder by (1) the mere filing, pursuant to the
statute, of a rate schedule by the utility; or (2) the filing of
a schedule pursuant to a rate order promulgated by the commission-it appearing that, under the statute, the party now
insisting on its contract rates had opportunity, of which it did
not avail itself, to support the contract rates and to test before
the commission and in the state supreme court the validity of the
filed schedules. Pp. 112-114.
4. It is not essential that there be specific adjudication in respect
of existing contract rates in order that these may be susparsed6d by

