CUMMINGS v. DEUTSCHE BANK.
109

Syllabus.

the Constitution or the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Affirmed.
CUMMINGS, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL. V.
DEUTSCHE BANK UND DISCONTOGESELL-'
SCHAFT.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 254. Argued January 4, 5, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.
1. A suit under § 9 of the Trading With the Enemy Act, as amended
by § 11 of the Settlement of War Claims Act, against the Attorney General (successor to the Alien Property Custodian) and
the Treasurer of the United States, to recover property seized
from a former enemy owner, is a suit against the United States.
P. 118.
2. The consent of the United States to be so sued was not withdrawn by Public Resolution No. 53, of June 27, 1934. Id.
This Public Resolution provides, inter alia, that all deliveries
of money or property authorized or directed by the statutes above
cited, shall be postponed and the money or property reserved,
as long as Germany remains in arrears in payments under the
debt funding agreement between Germany and the United States,
dated June 23, 1930, respecting Germany's obligations on account
of awards of the Mixed Claims Commission, etc.
3. In postponing restoration of property to former enemy owners,
as allowed and provided for by the Settlement of War Claims
Act, Public Resolution No. 53, supra, did not infringe their rights
under the Fifth Amendment. P. 120.
4. Seizures under the Trading With the Enemy Act divested the
enemy owners of all right to the property seized and vested absolute title in the United States. Id.
5. The fact that Congress manifested from the beginning its intention
after the War to deal justly with former owners of seized enemy
property, and by restitution or compensation to ameliorate hardship resulting from such seizures, detracted nothing from the title
acquired by the United States or its power to retain or dispose

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U.S.

of the property upon such terms and conditions as from time
to time Congress might direct. P. 120.
6. In a suit under the Settlement of War Claims Act, a former
enemy owner could not gain title to the property claimed, prior
to final judgment. P. 121.
7. The grant of the privilege of becoming re~ntitled to seized
property, extended to former enemy owners upon, specified conditions by the Settlement of War Claims Act. was a matter of
grace and was subject to withdrawal by Congress. P. 122.
65 App. D. C. 297; 83 F. (2d) 554, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 527, to review the reversal of a
judgment dismissing a suit for the recovery of property
seized and held under the Trading With the Enemy Act.

Assistant Attorney General Morris, with whom Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Harry LeRoy Jones and
Charles A. Horsky were on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. James J. Lenihan and Otto C. Sommerich, with
whom Mr. Thomas H. Creighton, Jr., was on the brief,
for respondent.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Hartwell Cabel and Milton
B. Ignatius filed a brief on behalf of the Swiss National
Insurance Co., Ltd., as amicus curiae, urging affirmance
of the judgment below.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This isa suit in-.equity brought October 3, 1934, by
respondent in the supreme court of the District of Columbia 1 against petitioners praying a decree directing delivery of property seized by the Alien Property Custodian
and withheld by petitioners under the Trading with the
Enemy Act from "Direction der DiscontoGesellschaft,"
'Now the "district court of the United States for the District of
Columbia." Act of June 25, 1936, 49 Stat. 1921.

CUMMINGS v. DEUTSCHE BANK.
115

Opinion of the Court.

an alien enemy. Petitioners moved to dismiss the bill
upon the ground that the court had no jurisdiction to
entertain it because by Public Resolution No. 53 of
June 27, 1934, 48 Stat. 1267, the return of the money
and property sought has been postponed. The court sustained the motion and dismissed the bill. The court of
appeals reversed. 65 App. D. C. 297; 83 F. (2d) 554.
This court granted a writ of certiorari.
In substance the bill alleges: Respondent, a German
corporation, was created in 1929 by consolidation of
Deutsche Bank and Direction der Disconto Gesellschaft.
After the merger, the assets of the latter became respondent's property. The Custodian determined the Disconto
Gesellschaft to be an alien enemy and seized its money
and property in this country, which was held by the
Custodian and deposited in the Treasury. Respondent,
acting under the Settlement of War Claims Act and in
accordance with the Custodian's rules and regulations,
filed notice of claim to the property and applied to the
President for its return. Before commencement of this
suit, the Custodian found it entitled to the property.
In March, 1931, Sprunt and others brought an action
in the supreme court of the District of Columbia against
respondent; a warrant of. attachment issued and, pursuant to it, the marshal levied on the money and property so held; because of the attachment petitioners refused to deliver it to respondent and retained custody.
In May, 1934, that action was discontinued by plaintiffs
and the attachment was released. July 1, 1934, the
office of Custodian ceased; his powers and duties were
transferred to the Department of Justice; all money and
property held by or in trust for him was transferred to
the Attorney General. Before commencemnent of this
suit, respondent demanded and petitioners refused delivery of that here in question. Their refusal was based
on Public Resolution No. 53.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300-U. S,

The questions for decision are whether that resolution
withdrew from the trial court jurisdiction to entertain
the bill, and whether it deprives respondent of its property without due process of law in contravention of the
Fifth Amendment.
1. This is in substance a suit against the United States.
Banco Mexicano v. Deutsche Bank, 263 U. S. 591, 603.
Becker Steel Co. v. Cummings, 296 U. S. 74, 78. By the
Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, § 9 (a) (b) (c), as amended by the Settlement of War Claims Act, §.11, '
the United States consented, in respect of claims such as
the one here in. question, to be sued in the supreme court
of the District of Columbia. Petitioners maintain Resolution No. 53 withdrew that consent.
The recitals of that resolution disclose reasons for its
adoption. They are: A joint resolution of July 2, 1921,'
declared that property of German nationals held under
the Trading with the Enemy Act should be retained and
no disposition thereof made, except as specifically provided by law, until the German Government should make
suitable provision for the satisfaction of claims of American nationals against it. The Treaty of Berlin, August
25, 1921,' accorded to the United States all rights and
advantages specified in the resolution of July 2, 1921,
including those stipulated for its benefit in the Treaty of
Versailles,' not ratified by the United States. The agreement of August 10, 1922,7 established a Mixed Claims
'Act of October 6, 1917, § 9, 40 Stat. 419, as amended by Acts:
July 11, 1919, 41 Stat. 35; June 5, 1920, 41 Stat. 977; February 27,
1921, c. 76, 41 Stat. 1147; December 21, 1921, c. 13, 42 Stat. 351;
December 27, 1922, c. 13, 42 Stat. 1065; March 4, 1923, § 1, 42
Stat. 1511; May 7, 1926, c. 252, 44 Stat. 406.
'Act of March 10, 1928, 45 Slat. 270.
' 42 Stat. 105.
"42 Stat. 1939.
'Sen. Doc. No. 348, 67th Cong., 4th Sess., p. 3329.
'42 Stat. 2200.

CUMMINGS v. DEUTSCHE BANK.
115

119

Opinion of the Court.

Commission to adjudicate claims of American nationals
against Germany. And, in the debt-funding agreement
of June 23, 1930,8 Germany agreed to pay the United
States on account of its awards 40,800,00 reichmarks
in each year until 1981. Germany was in arrears under
that agreement and had failed to make provisions for
satisfaction of claims established against it.
Therefore, the resolution declared: So long as Germany
is in arrears in respect of obligations mentioned, all deliveries of property authorized to be made under the Trad-.
ing with the Enemy Act of 1917, as amended, or the
Settlemnent of War Claims Act of 1928 as amended,
"whether or not a judgment or decree has been entered
with respect thereto, shall be postponed and the money
or property, or the income, issues, profits, and/or avails
thereof reserved . . . Provided . . . That the President
may, in his sole discretion, remove the restriction as to
any of the cases . . . in relation to which . . . deliveries
have been postponed under this resolution . .
The consent of the United States to be sued was
revocable at any time. Lynch v. Uniited States, 292
U. S. 571, 581. It has not been expressly recalled and,
unless by Resolution No. 53 impliedly withdrawn, the
supreme court of the District had jurisdiction to entertain the complaint. C6ntinuation of the consent was not
inconsistent with the purpose of the resolution. The
measure was adopted because of Germany's default
which, as indicated by the context, was assumed not to
be permanent. It was intended only temporarily to
postpone final disposition of the seized property, merely
to stay deliveries whether directed by administrative
order or judgment of a court. Claimants may have deliveries whenever Germany ceases to be in arrears. Fulfillment of her,promises will end the restraint imposed
Report of the Secretary of the TreaSury, 1930, p. 341.

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

by the resolution. Postponenment of deliveries does not
suggest intention to withdraw c~nsent to be sued. It was
given and long continued in order to ,safeguard former
owners against erroneous administration of measures
enacted for their benefit. Neither need nor reason has
been suggested for change of policy in that regard. In
the absence of unmistakable expression of purpose to
that end, it may not reasonably be inferred that Congress
intended to withdraw that protection. Cf. Becker Steel
Co. v. Cummings, supra, 80. We find nothing to warrant
that inference. District of Columbia v. Eslin, 183 U. S.
62, gives no support to petitioners' contention. Cl.arly
the trial court had jurisdiction to entertain the complaint.
2. Public Resolution No. 53 is not repugnant to the
Fifth Amendment. By exertion of the war power, and
untrammeled by the due process or just compensation
clause, Congress eracted laws directing seizure, use and
disposition of property in this country belonging to subjects of the enemy. Alien enemy owners were divested
of every right in Irespect of the money and property
seized and held by the Custodian under the Trading with
the Enemy Act. United States v. Chemical Foundation,
272 U. S. 1, 9-11. Woodson v. Deutsche, etc. Vormals,
292 U. S. 449, 454. The title acquired by the United
States was absolute and unaffected by definition of duties
or limitations upon the power of the Custodian or the
Treasurer of the United States. Congress reserved to
itself freedom at any time to dispose of the property as
deemed expedient and right under circumstances that
might arise during and after the war. Legislative history and terms of measures passed in relation to alien
enemy property clearly disclose that from the beginning
Congress intended after the war justly to deal with former owners and, by restitution or compensation in whole
or part, to ameliorate hardships falling upon them as a

CUMMINGS v. DEUTSCHE BANK.
115

Opinion of the Court.

result of the seizure of their property.' But that intention detracted nothing from title acquired by the United
States or its power to retain or dispose of the property
upon such terms and conditions as from time to time
Congress might direct. As the taking left in enemy
owners no beneficial right to, or interest in, the property,
the United States did not take or hold as trustee for their
benefit.
Respondent maintains that § 11 of the Settlement of
War Claims Act of 1928, amending § 9 of the Trading
with the Enemy Act of 1917 as amended, vested in
former owners an immediate right to the return of their
property and that, having complied with the provisions
of the Act, they cannot be deprived of that right. It
argues that its interest in the property taken was not
"completely and irrevocably destroyed" and that the
Settlement of War Claims Act was an Act under which
it "could and did btain a vested interest in its property."
To the extent that the. argument rests upon the assumption that the taking didi not divest enemy owners of
every right or that the United States did not acquire
absolute title, it is fallacious and need not be noticed.
'The Settlement of War Claims Act was not a conveyance and did not grant former owners any right or title
to, or interest in, the money or property taken by the
Custodian. As amended by it, pertinent provisions of the
Trading with the Enemy Act are indicated in the margin."
'Sen. Rep. No. 113, 65th Cong., 1st Sess. Trading with the
Enemy Act of October 6, 1917, § 12, 40 Stat. 423. Public Resolution
No. 8, July 2, 1921, § 5, 42 Stat. 106. Cong. Rc., Vol. 61, Part 4\
p. 3249. Winslow Act of March 4, 1923, § 2, 42 Stat. 1516, adding
§ 23 to Trading with the Enemy Act. Sen. Rep. No. 273, 70th Cong.,
1st Sess., pp. 12-13. Settlement of War Claims Act of March 10,
1928, 45 Stat. 254.
"0Section 9 (b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended by
§ 11 of the Settlement of War Claims Act, 45 Stat. 2.70-in substance

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

No change of title was effected by that Act; and in proceedings under it none takes place before delivery to

claimant. As the United States owned all, claimant's
consent to postponement of delivery of part did not
improve its position as to the rest. The President did
not order delivery. Action by him was neither a condition precedent nor a bar to suit. The statute, § 9 (a),
required the money and property to be retained by the
Custodian or Treasurer until final judgment for claimant
should be satisfied by delivery, or until final judgment
against claimant.

It

is clear that when the resolution

was adopted respondent had neither title nor vested right
to have delivery.
The grant to former alien enemy owners of the privilege

of becoming entitled upon conditions specified to have
so far as pertinent here-declares that if the President shall determine
that the owner at the time of the taking was a German corporation
and that written consent (provided for in subsection (i) of § 9 as
amended) to postponement of return of 20 percent of the money or
property has been filed, then the President without any application
being made therefor "may order the payment, conveyance, transfer,
assignment, or.delivery of such money or other property held by the
Alien Property Custodian or by the Treasurer of the United States"
to the owner from whom taken.
Section 9 (c) declares that any person whose property the President is authorized to return under the provisions of subsection (b)
(and plaintiff's predecessor is such a person) may serve notice of
claim for the return of the money or property taken from him as
provided in subsection 9 (a) (which relates to claims by others than
enemies for property taken from them by the Custodian) and thereafter "may make application to the President for allowance of such
claim and/or may institute suit in equity to recover such money or
other p~roperty, as provided in said subsection, and with like effect.
The President or the court, as the case may be, may make the same
determinations with respect to citizenship and other relevant facts
that the President is authorized to make under the provisions of
subsection (b) hereof."
And § 9 (a) provides that any person not an enemy or ally of an
enemy claiming money or property taken by the Custodian may file

CUMMINGS v. DEUTSCHE BANK.
115

Opinion of the Court.

returned to them the property of which they had been
deprived by exertion of the war power of the United
States was made by the Congress in mitigation of the
taking and in recognition of "the humane and wise policy of modern times." Brown v. United States, 8 Cranch
110, 123. In United States v. White Dental Co., 274
U. S. 398, it appears that during the war the German
government sequestered the property of a German corporation which, through ownership of all its capital stock,
was controlled by an American corporation. Speaking
of the taking we said (pp. 402-403): "What would ultimately come back to it [the American owner], as the
event proved, might be secured not as a matter of right,
but as a matter either of grace to the vanquished or
exaction by the victor . . . It would require a high degree of optimism to discern in the seizure of enemy property by the German government in 1918 more than a
remote hope of ultimate salvage from the wreck of the
with him a notice of claim under oath and in form and substance as
required; and the President, if application is made by claimant, may
order the payment or delivery to claimant of the money or property
so held by the Custodian or Treasurer. If the President shall not
so order within 60 days or if the claimant shall have filed the required notice and made no application, then claimant may institute
a suit in equity "to establish the interest, right, title . ..so claimed,
and if so established the court shall order the payment, conveyance,
transfer, assignment, or delivery to said claimant of the money or
other property so held by the Alien Property Custodian or by the
Treasurer of the United States or the interest therein to which the
court shall determine said claimant is entitled. If suit shall be so
instituted, then such money or property shall be retained in the
custody of the Alien Property Custodian, or in the Treasury of the
United States, as provided in this Act, and until any final judgment
or decree which shall be entered in favor of the claimant shall be
fully satisfied by 'payment or conveyance, transfer, assignment, or
delivery by the defendant, or by the Alien Property Custodian, or
Treasurer of the United States on order of the court, or until final
judgment or decree shall be entered against the claimant or suit
otherwise terminated."

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

300 U. S,

war." We think it clear that the grant by the Settlement of War Claims Act was made as a matter of grace
and so was subject to withdrawal by Congress. United
States v. Teller, 107 U. S. 64, 68. Frisbie v. United
States, 157 U. S. 160, 166. Lynch v. United States,
supra, 577. The resolution does not infringe the Fifth
Amendment.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
RICHMOND
WACHOVIA

MORTGAGE
BANK

&

& LOAN
TRUST

CORP., v.

CO.

ET

AL.,

EXECUTORS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH

No. 235.

CAROLINA.

Argued January 4, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. A North Carolina statute providing that when the mortgagee,
payee, or other holder of an obligation secured by real estate
causes a sale of the property by a trustee, becomes the purchaser for a sum less than the amount of the debt and afterwards
brings an action for the deficiency, the defendant may show, by
way of defense and set-off, that the property sold was fairly
worth the amount of the debt or that the sum bid was substantially
less than the true value of the property, and thus defeat the claim
in whole or in part, held valid in application to notes secured by
deed of trust executed prior to the passage of the law. P. 129.
2. The obligation of a contract is not impaired by a law limiting
the remedy, if a remedy adequate for enforcing the obligation
remains or is substituted. P. 128.
210 N. C. 29; 185 S. E. 482, affirmed.
In an action to collect a balance due on a mortgage

debt, the plaintiff, appellant here, was defeated in a Gen-

eral County Court in North Carolina.

The judgment

was affirmed by the Superior Court, whose judgment was
in turn affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State.

