OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

300 U. S.

OSAKA SHOSEN KAISHA LINE v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 224.

Argued January 4, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. In penal statutes, no less than in others, the language, if clear, is

conclusive. P. 101.
2. General expressions in an opinion which go beyond the case in
which they were used, may be respected, but ought not to control
the judgment in a subsequent suit presenting the very point for
decision. P. 103.
3. Section 10 (a) of the Immigration Act of 1917,' as amended, makes
it the duty of every person, including owners, masters, officers,
and agents of vessels or transportation lines, "bringing an alen to,
or providing a means for an alien to come to, the United States,
to prevent the landing of such alien in the United States at any
time or place other than as designated by the immigration officers."
Penalties were prescribed for failure to comply. Held:
(1) The word "alien," as used in the section, was not intended
to include an alien sailor. P. 103.
(2) To constitute the act of "bringing an alien to the United
States," it is not essential that there be an intent to leave him
here. Decided thus in a case involving an alien passenger, en
route from Brazil to Japan, who debarked at a port of call in
the United States. Taylor v. United States, 207 U. S. 120, limited.
P. 104.
(3) Under § 10 it is not necessary that a detention order be
issued by the immigration officials; the landing of an alien is forbidden unless permitted. P. 101.
(4) The meaning of § 10 (a) is not restricted by subdivision (b)
of § 10, which simply provides a rule of evidence affecting the
burden of proof. P. 104.
84 F. (2d) 482, affirmed.

299 U. S. 526, to review a decree reversing
a decree of the District Court, which dismissed with
prejudice a libel by the United States to recover a penalty
under the Immigration Act.
CERTIORARI,

-

98

OSAKA SHOSEN LINE v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert Eikel, Jr., with whom Mr. J. Newton Rayzor was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. CharlesE. Wyzanski, Jr., with whom Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and
Messrs. William W. Barron, Albert E. Reitzel, and Edward J. Garrahanwere on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Section 10 (a) of the Immigration Act of February 5,
1917, as amended, Title 8 U. S. C. § 146, makes it the
duty of every person, including owners, masters, officers,
and agents of vessels or transportation lines, "bringing
an alien to, or providing a means for an alien to come to,
the United States, to prevent the landing of such alien
in the United States at any time or place other than as
designated by the immigration officers." Failure to comply with the provision constitutes a misdemeanor punishable by fine or imprisonment or both. If the Secretary
of Labor is of opinion that a prosecution is impracticable
or inconvenient, a penalty of $1,000 is imposed and a
lien upon the vessel is created for which such vessel shall
be libeled in the appropriate United States court.
By subdivision (b) of § 10, proof that the alien failed
to present himself at the time and place designated by
the immigration officers constitutes prima facie evidence
that the alien has landed at a time or place other than
that designated.
On June 11, 1932, the Santos Maru came into the port
of New Orleans with Salvatore Sprovieri, an alien passenger, on board. The passenger was en route from
Brazil to Japan upon a through ticket; and was not entitled to enter the United States. On arrival of the
steamship, the immigration officers at New Orleans
issued a 'iritten order to the steamship to hold the alien

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

on board at all ports of the United States at which the
ship might touch-the order being duly served upon
the officers of the ship. A few days later, the ship arrived at the port of Galveston, Texas; and there, by the
negligende of the ship, its officers and crew, the alien passenger was allowed to escape and land in the United
States without permission of the immigration officers
and in violation of their order. Officers of the ship notified the immigration authorities of the escape of the
passenger; but the ship sailed before his arrest. Subsequently, the passenger was arrested and deported on
another vessel of the same line.
The Secretary of Labor was of opinion that it was impracticable and inconvenient to prosecute the matter
criminally; and a libel was filed on behalf of the United
States in the appropriate. federal district court, praying
a decree for the $1,000 penalty and to enforce the lien
therefor against the ship.
The district court took the view that, the alien passenger
not being bound for the United States but en route from
Brazil to Japan, the ship was not liable, and dismissed
the libel with prejudice. The circuit court of appeals
held otherwise, reversed the decree and remanded the
cause with instructions to enter a decree for the United
States. 84 F. (2d) 482.
The basic contention of petitioner, in its assault upon
the latter decree, is that one who transports an alien
passenger from one foreign country to another, does not
bring him to the United States, within the meaning of
§ 10, by entering, with the alien on board, an American
port of call on the way. If it were not for a sentence
contained in the opinion of this court in Taylor v. United
States, infra, of which we shall speak later, we might
dispose of this contention by simply saying that it is
contrary to the unambiguous terms of the section.
Nothing can be plainer than that a ship which enters

OSAKA SHOSEN LINE v. U. S.
98

Opinion of the Court.

one of our ports has come to the United States; and a
passenger on board obviously has come with the ship,
and consequently has been brought by the ship to the
United States. And this remains none the less the fact,
although the ship continue on her way to a foreign port.
and although it was intended that the passenger should
go with her, and not be left in the United States. To
say that the passenger has not been brought to the
United States unless the intent was to leave him here,
is not to construe the statute but to add an additional
and qualifying term to its provisions. This we are not
at liberty to do under the guise of construction, because,
as this court has so often held, where the words are plain
there is no room for construction. United States v.
Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 95-96; Hamilton v. Rathbone,
175 U. S. 414, 419, 421; United States v. Hartwell, 6
Wall. 385, 396; Crooks v. Harrelson,282 U. S. 55, 59-60.
It is urged that the statute is highly penal in character and should therefore be construed strictly. But
the object of all construction, whether of penal or other
statutes, is to ascertain the legislative intent; and in
penal statutes, as in those of a different character, "if
the language be clear, it is conclusive." United States
v. Hartwell, supra, pp. 395-396; United States v. Corbett, 215 U. S. 233, 242; Sacramento Navigation Co. v.
Salz, 273 U. S. 326, 329-330.
The duty of the ship is to prevent the landing of
through alien passengers except by permission. The
United States is under no obligation to permit the temporary landing of such passengers at its ports at all. A
detention order is not necessary, although one was issued
in this instance; for the case is not one where landing
is permitted if not forbidden by the immigration officials,
but where it is forbidden unless permitted. Section 10
is not like, for example, § 20 of the Immigration Act of
1924, which imposes a fine upon the owner, charterer,

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

.300 U. S.

agent, consignee, or master of a vessel arriving in the
United States who fails, after inspection, to detain an
alien seaman employed on the vessel "if required" by
the immigration officer in charge of the port to do so.
Under that provision, "A duty so to detain does not arise
unless and until such detention is required by the immigration officer."

Compagnie Generale v. Elting, 298 U. S.

217, 223. Under § 10, however, the duty is imposed by
the statute and not by requirement of the immigration
officials. The matter is taken care of by a regulation of
the Secretary of Labor (Rule 3, subdivision H, 6, "Immigration Laws and Rules of January 1, 1930," p. 125),
which provides that through alien passengers "may land
temporarily without visaed passports, for the limited
period of time during which the vessel lies over in port,
in cases where the examining officer is satisfied that they
will depart on the vessel at the time it proceeds on the
same voyage . ..
The main reliance of petitioner is on Taylor v. United
States, 207 U. S.120, 124, 125. That case arose under
§ 18 of the Immigration Act of March 3, 1903, which
imposes the duty upon a ship bringing an alien to the
United States to adopt due precautions to prevent the
landing of such alien at any time or place other than
that designated by the immigration officers. This court
held that the provision did not apply "to the ordinary
case of a sailor deserting while on shore leave." In the
course of the opinion it was said that the phrase "bringing an alien to the United States" meant "transporting
with intent to leave in the United States and for the sake
of transport--not transporting with intent to carry back,
and merely as incident to employment on the instrument
of transport." "Intent to leave" is right enough as applied to a seaman on the ship, but it may not be extended
to include an alien through passenger.
The court there was dealing with and thinking of a
sailor, and not of an alien through passenger; and. its

OSAKA SHOSEN LINE v. U. S.
98

Opinion of the Court.

language must be read accordingly, for-"It is a maxim,
not to be disregarded, that general expressions, in every
opinion, are to be taken in; connection with the case in
which those expressions are used. If they go beyond the
case, they may be respected, but ought not to control the
judgment in a subsequent suit, when the very point is
presented for decision." Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat.
264, 399; Humphrey's Executor v. United States, 295
U. S. 602, 626-,627. The point to be observed in the
Taylor case is that the transportation of the sailor was
merely as an "incident to employment on the instrument
of transport." That is to say, the sailor was one of the
agencies which brought the ship in, rather than an alien
brought in by the ship. "It is true," Chief Justice Marshall said in The Wilson v. United States, 1 Brock. 423,
30 Fed. Cas. 239, 244, "that a vessel coming into port, is
the vehicle which brings in her crew, but we do not in
common language say, that the mariners are 'imported,'
or brought in by a particular vessel; we rather say they
bring in the vessel.'' The generality of the affirmative
phrase, "transporting with intent to leave in the United
States," is obviously qualified by the negative form of
expression immediately following, "not transporting with
intent to carry back and merely as incident to employment on the instrument of transport." (Italics supplied.)
When we consider the relation of the sailor to the
ship-that he is, for all practical purposes, a part of it
and not, like a passenger, apart from it-it is quite apparent that the word "alien" as used in § 10 does not,
and was not intended to, include an alien sailor. Some
of those engaged in the operation of a vessel must go
ashore. They may be required to load and unload the
cargo, to communicate with the local representatives of
the line, and necessarily to perform a variety of duties
which require their presence ashore. A denial of the privi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

lege would be so likely to adversely affect commerce as to
require much plainer language than we find in § 10 to
justify the conclusion that Congress had denied it. To
adopt that conclusion would be to declare that the act
was violated whenever a member of the crew was sent
ashore to perform an act imperatively necessary in the
service of the ship.
Petitioner cites, also in support of its contention, The
Alfonso XIII, 53 F. (2d) 124, 126; Dollar S. S. Line v.
Elting, 51 F. (2d) 1035; and The Habana, 63 F. (2d)
812; but those decisions were expressly based upon what
was regarded as the controlling effect of the phrase which
we have quoted from the Taylo. case; and from a reading of the opinions it seems quite evident that but for
that the decisions would have been otherwise. For example, Judge Woolsey, in The Alfonso XIH, said that if
he were dealing with the matter de novo, uninstructed by
judicial authority above him, he would have found it
difficult to give the words "bringing an alien to the
United States" a meaning different from what they literally mean.
We reject the notion that in the case With which we
are now concerned it is necessary to constitute the act
of bringing an alien to the United States that there should
be an intent to leave him here.
We see nothing in the suggestion that subdivision (b)
of § 10 sustains petitioner's view of the case. That subdivision simply provides a rule of evidence affecting the
burden of proof, and we think does not in any way restrict the plain meaning of § 10 (a) as we have found it.
Decree affirmed.

