OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

300 U. S.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed. The District Court will be affirmed.
Reversed.
KELLY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 309.

Submitted January 8, 1937.-Decided Fcruas'y 1, 1937.

1. Where, upon an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from a
judgment of the District Court, the record contains no properly
authenticated statement of the evidence or agreed statement of
the case as required by Equity Rules 75 (b) and 77, and the
judgment is affirmed on that ground, although the cause was heard
without objection to the record, denial by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, upon a petition for rehearing, of an opportunity to
secure proper authentication of the record is an abuse of discretion.
P. 54.
2. While orderly procedure demands that the Equity Rules be enforced with the strictness necessary to effectuate their essential
purpose, yet when, as here, there is mere omission of some step
which has escaped the attention of both parties, and when rigorous
enforcement without fair opportunity to correct the error would
defeat hearing on the merits and entail unnecessary hardship,
appropriate relief promptly asked for should be afforded. P. 54.
3. In this case, permission to supply authentication of the record
would have occasioned no material injury to any party, nor interfered seriously with the business of the court. P. 55.
83 F. (2d) 783, 84 F. (2d) 541, reversed.

299 U. S. 528, to review a judgment affirming a judgment, 12 F. Supp. 11, which disaffirmed an order
of the Referee in Bankruptcy and allowed a claim of the
United States for income taxes against the estate of a
bankrupt. The tax liability had previously been sustained by the Board of Tax Appeals, 29 B. T. A. 514.
CERTIORARI,

KELLY v. UNITED -STATES.
50

. 51

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. B. Stratton submitted for petitioner.
Solicitor General Reed, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Jackson, Messrs. Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch,
and Charles A. Horsky, and Miss Helen R. Carloss were
on the brief, submitted for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In a proceeding begun January 9, 1934, the District
Court, Western District of Washington, adjudged the
Carlisle Packing Company bankrupt, February 9, 1934.
The United States presented their claim for income taxes
for 1927, 1928, and 1929, and the trustee filed objections,
June 18, 1934. He asserted that the Company received
no taxable income during 1927 but suffered loss sufficient
to offset any gains for 1928 and 1929. The Referee received copy of the duly authenticated judgment by the
Board of Tax Appeals, which sustained the tax in question, took other evidence, and upon the whole record
concluded that the Company lost as averred during 1927.
He disallowed the claim and explained this action by an
opinion.
Exceptions challenged the Referee's refusal to treat
the decision of the Tax Board as conclusive and hold the
Bankruptcy Court lacked power to consider the merits
of the assessments. A petition for review by the District
Court alleged finality of the Board's judgment, lack of
power in the Bankruptcy Court, and asked disallowance
of the claim.
From an abstract of the proceedings returned by the
Referee it appearsThat the United States had unsuccessfully objected to
the intro&dLction of any testimony concerning the merits
of the questioned tax upon the ground that the Board's

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

judgment in respect of the same matter had become final
and conclusive.
That the bankrupt had borrowed large sums from the
Bank of California, and in 1927 when unable otherwise
to meet its obligations had transferred to the Bank much
property and received therefor its own cancelled notes
for $650,000.00. The Company claimed no profit arose
from this transaction and that it sustained large loss
during 1927. The Collector ruled to the contrary and
assessed delinquencies for three years. The Board of
Tax Appeals sustained him, approved the assessments,
and adjudged accordingly, January 4, 1934. On January
12, 1934, he made summary assessments. The time for
contesting the Board's judgment had not expired when
petitioner was adjudged bankrupt.
Upon motion of the United States the District Court
directed that the bankrupt's tax returns be made parts
of the record. It then heard the cause, considered
whether the'decision of the Board was conclusive, and
held: "To reach the conclusion that a deficiency determined by the Board of Tax Appeals may be re-examined
and re-decided by the Judge of a District Court or a
Referee in Bankruptcy is, on its face, inconsistent with
the intent and purpose on the part of Congress shown
that a review of the Board's decision should be by such
an appellate court." Accordingly it rendered an opinion,
disaffirmed the Referee's action, and allowed the claim.
Thereupon the trustee appealed to the Circuit Court
of Appeals. Among other things he assigned as error the
ruling that the Bankruptcy Court lacked power to determine anew questions which the Board of Tax Appeals
had adjudicated. Portions of the record in the District
Court, certified as correct by the Clerk, were filed. Counsel for the United States obtained leave to make part of
the transcript the District Court's opinion. This was

KELLY v. UNITED STATES.
50

Opinion of the Court.

omitted, he said, through inadvertence only recently discovered.
It is asserted and not denied that the cause was heard
by the Court without objection to the record, and that
both sides treated the statement of the evidence as correct. Undoubtedly, the record was not properly authenticated within the requirements of Equity Rules Number
75 (b) I and 77.2
Upon its own motion the Circuit Court of Appeals
raised the point and decided "appellant has not comSEquity Rule 75 (b), as amended, 286 U. S. 570, 28 U. S. C. A.
ยง 723:
"The evidence to be included in the record, except expert testimony, shall not be set forth in full, but shall be stated in simple and
condensed form, all parts not essential to the d ;sion of the questions presented by the appeal being omitted and the testimony of
witnesses being stated only in narrative form, save that if either
party desires it, and the court or judge so directs, any part of the
testimony shall be reproduced in the exact words of the witness. The
duty of so condensing and stating the evidence shall rest primarily
pn the appellant, who shall prepare his statement thereof and lodge
the same in the clerk's office for the examination of the other parties
at or before the time of filing his praecipe under paragraph (a) of
this rule. He shall also notify the other parties or their solicitors of
such lodgment and shall name a time and place when he will ask
the court or judge to approve the statement, the time so named to
be at least ten days after such notice. At the expiration of the
time named or such further time as the court or judge may allow,
the statement, together with any objections made or amendments
proposed by any party, shall be presented to the court or the judge,
and if the statements be true, complete and properly prepared, it
shall be approved by the court or judge, and if it be not true, complete, or properly prepared, it shall be made so under the direction
of the court or judge and shall then be approved. When approved,
it shall be filed in the clerk's office and become a part of the record
for the purposes of the appeal."
2Equity Rule 77, 226 U. S. 672, 28 U. S. C. A. ยง 723:
"When the questions presented by an appeal can be determined by
the appellate court without an examination of all the pleadings anfi

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

plied with either of these rules, but has disregarded them
both. There is no statement of the evidence, nor is there
any agreed statement of the case. In the absence of any
such statement, we indulge the presumption that the
evidence supports the judgment and warrants its
affirmance."
The trustee asked for a rehearing, also that the record
be returned to the District Court for settlement and
proper authentication. Both things were denied. One
of the Judges dissented, and from his unquestioned
statement it appears: "Neither party raised the point on
which the opinion wa based. The point took its origin
from the bench without suggestion from or reference to
either party and in the face of extended argument and
voluminous briefs based upon the statement of evidence
contained in the abstract." He thought the petition for
rehearing should have been granted and opportunity
afforded to secure proper authentication of the
record.
Manifestly the Equity Rules should be enforced with
the strictness necessary to effectuate their essential purpose; orderly procedure so demands. - But when, as here,
there is mere omission of some step which has escaped
the attention of both parties, and when rigorous enforcement without fair opportunity to correct the error would
defeat hearing on the merits and entail unnecessary
hardship, we think appropriate relief promptly asked for
evidenoq, the parties, with the approval of the district court or the
judge thereof, may prepare and sign a statement of the case showing
how the questions arose and were decided in the district court and
setting forth so much only of the facts alleged and proved, or sought
to be proved, as is essential to a decision of such questions by the
appellate court. Such statement, when filed in the office of the clerk
of the district court, shall be treated as superseding, for the purposes of the appeal, all parts of the record other than the decree from
which the appeal is taken, and, together with such decree,. shall be
copied and certified to the appellate court a the record on appeal."

THOMPSON v. CONSOLIDATED GAS CO.
50

55

Syllabus.

should be afforded. Permission to supply authentication of the record would have occasioned no material injury to any party, nor interfered seriously with the business of the Court. In the circumstances we must regard
the denial of an opportunity to amend as an abuse of
discretion-a violation of the spirit if not the letter of the
Rules.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed. The cause will be remanded there for further
proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.

THOMPSON ET AL. V. CONSOLIDATED GAS
UTILITIES CORP. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 89. Argued November 18, 19, 1936.-Decided February 1, 1937.
1. Under the common law of Texas (apart from statute), the owner
of land has title to the natural gas in place, including that which
migrates there from other lands of the gas field, -and may produce
all that will flow from his well, and may drill off-sets to get his
full share from the common supply. P. 68.
2. In support of administrative regulations purporting to be made
under legal authority, there is a presumption of the existence of
facts justifying the specific exercise. P. 69.
3. Orders limiting and prorating the production of gas by the several
owners of land in a gas field must be held invalid if shown to bear
no reasonable relation either to the prevention of waste or to the
protection of correlative rights, or if shown to be otherwise
arbitrary. P. 69.
4. Quaere whether c. 120, Texas Acts, 1935, should be construed as
attempting to authorize the State Railroad Commission to reduce
the production of gas from wells owned by the owners of private
pipe-lines, for the sole purpose of making them buy gas produced
by others who lack pipe-line connections. P. 73.
5. This Court is reluctant to pass upon a seriously controverted
question of the meaning of a state statute, because its decision,

