OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

petitioners would have a right to receive from his principal the necessary cotton to make delivery according
to the sale, and although the petitioners who had bought
the cotton would be under an obligation to their customer
to deliver to him, both brokers were, under the by-laws
of the exchange, principals in the transaction. When,
therefore, the customer ordered the transfer of the account the petitioners could only effect this by selling
the futures to the substituted broker who, in turn, became
obligated, so far as the exchange was concerned, as principal, to accept delivery of the cotton according to his
purchase from the petitioners. 'The obligation assumed
by the petitioners when they entered into purchase contracts could be satisfied by making payment to the clearing house or offset by selling to another broker and so
obtaining that broker's contract to take delivery of the
cotton from the clearing house. In no other way could
the petitioners relieve themselves of that obligation.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY CO. v.
WASHINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 20. Submitted October 14, 1936. Restored to the Docket
October 26, 1936. Argued December 7, 8, 1936.-Decided February 1, 1937.
1. A State may require a railroad company engaged in interstate

commerce to pay a fee, in addition to general taxati6n of its
property in the State, to cover the expense of local inspection and
supervision within the State's police power; but the exaction violates both the commerce clause and the Fourteenth Amendment
if, beyond those legitimate purposes, it is made and used to
defray the cost of other activities of the State, such as local reparation proceedings and litigation before the Interstate Commerce
Commission, in behalf of shippers. P. 159.
2. A statute (c. 107, L. Wash., 1929) requires public utilities generally, including railroads, to pay into a common fund each year

.GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WASHINGTON.
154

155

Opinion of the Court.

a fee of 1,(th of one per cent. of gross operating revenue of the
year preceding, for use in administering the state public service
commission law. Held:
(1) That the statute is not void on its face, as applied to an
interstate railroad, merely because it exacts fees at the same
rate from the railroad and other public utilities as well, or because the proceeds compose a common fund which may be used
not only for expense of inspection and supervision, but for other
purposes. P.. 161.
(2) But, to sustain the exaction in the case of an interstate
railroad, the burden rests upon the State to show that the sums
collected from the railroad do not exceed what is reasonably needed
in its case for inspection and supervision service. Foote & Co. v.
Stanley, 232 U. S. 494. P. 162.
(3) This burden was not sustained by the evidence in this
case. P. 165.
3. When a claim of federal right has been denied by a state court
upon the basis of a finding of fact or of mixed fact and law, this
Court must examine the evidence and determine whether it supports the decision against, the federal claim. Norris v. Alabama,
294 U. S. 587. P. 165.
184 Wash. 648; 52 P. (2d) 1274, reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment which reversed a judgment

for the Railway Company in its action to recover fees
claimed to have been unconstitutionally exacted by the

State.
Messrs. Thomas Balmer and L. B. daPonte,with whom

Messrs. F. G. Dorety and Edwin C. Matthias were on the
brief, for appellant.
Mr. George G. Hannan,Assistant Attorney General of

Washington, with whom Mr. G. W. Hamilton, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the
Court.

opinion of the

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme
1 in an action brought by the ap-

Court of Washington

184 Wash. 648; 52 P. (2d) 1274.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

pellant to recover fees for the years 1929-1933 paid under
protest to the State Department of Public Works. The
relevant statutory provisions are: 2
"Section 1. That hereafter every person, firm or corporation engaged in business as a public utility and subject to regulation as to rates and charges by the department of public works, except auto transportation companies and steamboat companies holding certificates under chapter 248 of the Laws of 1927, shall, on or before
the first day of April of each year, file with the department of public works a statement on oath showing its
gross operating revenue for the preceding calendar year
or portion thereof and pay to the department of public
works a fee of 1/10 of one per cent of such gross operating revenue: Provided, That the fee so paid shall in no
case be less than ten dollars."
"Sec. 2. All sums collected by the director of public
works under the provisions of this act shall within thirty
days after their receipt be paid to the state treasurer, and
by him deposited in a fund to be known as the public
service revolving fund."
The Supreme Court of the State has defined the exaction as a regulatory or inspection fee, and has declared
that the fund created by the sums collected must be used
solely for administering the state public service commission law.'
The complaint " alleges that the Department of Public
Works exercises jurisdiction and supervision over sundry
2

C. 107 Washington Session Laws of 1929.

(Remington's Revised

Statutes §§ 10417, 10418.) This act amended § 1 of c. 113 of the
Laws of 1921, as ,amended by,§ 1, c. 107 of the Laws of 1923. It
left § 2 of c..113, Laws of 1921, in effect.
8 Pacific T. & T. Co. v. Seattle, 172 Wash. 64 ; 21 P. (2d) 721;
affirmed on other questions, 291 U. S. 300. See also the opinion
below, 184 Wash., pp. 650, 651; 52 P. (2d) p. 1275.
.4 The complaint as filed sought recovery also of sums paid pursuant to other statutory provisions. The appellant, however, abandoned these items of claim.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WASHINGTON.
154

157

Opinion of the Court.

public utilities, including common carriers by rail, electric and street railways, gas, electrical and water companies, telegraph and telephone companies, wharfingers,
warehousemen, and carriers by water, engages in many
actiyities. disconnected from, and unrelated to, the inspection and supervision of rail carriers, and has a variety of duties in the enforcement of the State's police
power. The complaint affirms that the fee is not based
upon or restricted to the cost of legitimate regulation or
supervision but is used to defray the costs of other activities in connection with railroads and also of supervising
and inspecting d.inrelated public utilities and of performing other duties the expense of which cannot legitimately
be imposed upon carriers by rail; that the fee is grossly
in excess of the reasonable cost of inspection and regulation of railroads; that, to January 1, 1933, there had
accumulated from the fees collected more than $250,000
in excess of the amount expended by the department in
the discharge of all, its duties; that the statute is in truth
a revenue measure; that the State taxes plaintiff's property and other like property on an ad valorem basis. The
complaint charges that the fee is a burden on, and a
regulation of, interstate commerce in violation of Article
I, § 8 of the Constitutioni; is so arbitrary, excessive,
discriminatory and unequal as to deny ihe plaintiff equal
protection of the laws and to deprive it of property without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Te answer admits plaintiff's payment under protest;
admits. that the Department of Public Works exercises
jurisdiction and supervision over many classes of public
utilities, including common carriers, and that the plaintiff's property within the State is ,assessed on an ad
valorem basis for taxes like other property; admits plaintiff's capacity to sue, but denies substantially all other
allegations of the complaint.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

The case was tried without a jury. The evidence
largely consisted of the annual reports of the department.
By the uncontradicted evidence and by the relevant
statutes the following facts were established. The department has jurisdiction of various classes of public
utilities, including railroads, electric and street railways,
gas, electric and water companies, telegraph and telephone companies, wharfingers, warehousemen, and carriers by water, in respect of which it exercises many
regulatory and supervisory duties. As respects railroads,
the department constantly exercises functions unrelated
to inspection and supervision, including the statutory
duties of taking part in litigation before the Interstate
Commerce Commission affecting the' citizens of the State,
and of acting judicially in decreeing refunds of overcharges. These functions, unrelated to the inspection
and regulation of railroads, entail large expense.- Between 1929 and 1933 the legislature made no appropriation from the State's general fund for the expenses of
the department's activities, all being paid indiscriminately out of the department's fund derived from the fees
collected from businesses subject to its jurisdiction.
During this period the surplus accumulated from such
receipts was $224,193.95, which was expended in 1934 in
carrying on investigations of, and litigation with, public
utility corporations other than railroads. No separate
accounts are kept, or required by law to be kept, with
respect to the expense of these various activities, and it
is impossible to determine from the records and accounts
of the department the expense of inspecting and regulating railroads separate and apart from the expense
of regulating other utilities or other functions of the
department.
The plaintiff called the department's auditor who testified that the charge of one-tenth of one per cent of gross
income collected from utilities goes to build up a fund

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WASHINGTON.
154

159

Opinion of the Court.

from which all the department's expenses are paid; that
he had figures classifying the expenditures according to
the various kinds of utilities with which the department
is concerned. These calculations he had made for himself, there being no duty under the law to keep accounts
on this basis. He testified that, in computing the expenditures in connection with railroads, he lumped them
as railroad charges and made no separation of the costs
of inspection and regulation, the costs of. rate hearings,
and the costs of reparatibn proceedings, although the
evidence establishes that many of the railroad charges
had to do with reparation cases and litigation before the
Interstate Commerce Commission. At the close of plaintiff's case, the defendant recalled the auditor as its own
witness. He testified that the disbursements chargeable
to the railroads for the period 1929 to 1933, inclusive,
exceeded the receipts from railroads in the same period
by $37,833. He did not, however, qualify what he had
previously stated, that, in making up these figures, he
had lumped all railroad charges, whether for inspection
and regulation or interstate commerce cases or reparation
cases. Upon cross-examination it developed that the
figures he submitted were not official, and, so far as they
covered salary items, had been made up from slips which
the various employes, at his request, -had turned in
monthly allocating the time each employe spent in the
various branches of the work, and the witness had no
personal knowledge of the accuracy of these slips. Plaintiff objected to the testimony and moved to strike it on
the ground that it was hearsay but the court let it stand,
subject to the objection. A judgment awarded the plaintiff by the trial court was reversed by the Supreme Court.
The principles governing decision have repeatedly been
announced and were not questioned below. In the exercise of its police power the state may provide for the supervision and regulation of public utilities, such as rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300,U. S.

roads; may delegate the duty to an officer or commission;
and may exact the reasonable cost of such supervision
and regulation from the utilities concerned and allocate
the exaction amongst the members of the affected class
without violating the rule of equality imposed by the
Fourteenth Amendment.5 The supervision and regulation of the local structures and activities of a corporation
engaged in interstate commerce, and the imposition of the
reasonable expense thereof upon such corporation, is not
a burden upon, or regulation of, interstate commerce in
violation of the commerce clause of the Constitution.'
A law exhibiting the intent to impose a compensatory fee
for such a legitimate purpose is prima facie reasonable.7
If the exaction be so unreasonable and disproportionate
to the service as to impugn the good faith of the law 8 it
cannot stand either under the commerce clause or the
Fourteenth Amendment.' Thd state is not bound to adjust the charge after the fact, but may, in anticipation,
fix what the legislature deems to be a fair fee for the expected service, the presumption being that if, in practice,
the sum charged appears inordinate the legislative body
will reduce it in the light of experience."0 Such a statute
may, in spite of the presumption of validity, show on its
Charlotte, C. & A. R. Co. v. Gibbes, 142 U. S. 386; New York v.
Squire, 145 U. S. 175, 191.t
6 Atlantic & Pacific Tel. Co. v. Philadelphia,190 U. S. 160; Mackay
Telegraph Co. v. Little Rock, 250 U. S. 94, 99.
7 Western Union v. New Hope, 187 U. S. 419, 425; Pure Oil Co. v.
Minnesota, 248 U. S. 158, 162.
8 McLean v. Denver & R. G. R. Co., 203 U. S. 38, 55.
Compare
Red "C" Oil Co. v. North Carolina, 222 U. S. 380, 393. Western
Union v. New Hope, supra.
9Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, 83; Postal Telegraph-Cable Co.
v. Taylor, 192 U. S. 64; Pure Oil Co. v. Minnesota, suprq, p. 162.
10 Atlantic & Pacific Tel. Co. v. Philadelphia,supra, p. 164; Postal
Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Taylor, supra, p. 69. Foote & Co. v. Stanley, 232 IU. S. 494, 503, 504.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WASHINGTON.
154

161

Opinion of the Court.

face that some part of the exaction is to be used for a
purpose other than the legitimate one of supervision and
regulation and may, for that reason, be void. 1 And a
statute fair upon its face may be shown to be void and
unenforceable on account of its actual operation." If
the exaction be clearly excessive it is bad in toto and the
state cannot collect any-part of it."3

The contention is that the challenged statute is void
on its face since it discloses that the fee charged the appellant is not imposed for, or limited by, the reasonable
cost of supervision or regulation of its business; and, if
this is not so, the case made in respect of the act's operation cast on the appellee the burden of proof, which it
failed to carry.
The Supreme Court of the state based its decision in
favor of the validity of the statute on two grounds: First,
that the act is not unconstitutional on its face; secondly,
that, as the answer denied the material allegations of the
complaint concerning the operative effect of the act,
the plaintiff had the burden of proof, which it failed to
sustain; and, if the burden was shifted by the case made
by the plaintiff, the evidence preponderated in favor of
the defendant.
First. The statute does not exhibit a failure reasonably
to adjust the fee to the expense of the supervision and
regulation of railroads. The legislation is to be accorded
the presumption of fairness and regularity. It cannot be
deduced from the provisions of the act that the amounts
collected from the railroads grossly exceed those legitimately expended for inspection and regulation. The ap11Foote & Co. v. Stanley, supra, p. 505; Lugo v. Suazo, 59 F. (2d)
386.

12 Western Union v. New Hope, supra, p. 425; Foote & Co. v.
Stanley, supra, p. 507.
1' Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. New Hope, 192 U. S. 55; Foote &
Co. v. Stanley, supra, p. 508.

130607°-37-11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

pellant insists that such is the necessary inference from
the circumstance that the same fee is exacted from public
utilities generally, and the collections go into a single fund
and are indiscriminately disbursed for the many branches
of the department's work. But these facts, without
more, do not prove that the amounts derived from the
railroads are in excess of the legitimate expenses of inspection and regulation. It may be that, in spite of this
lumping of receipts and expenditures, the fees paid by the
railroads are no more than enough to defray such expenses. The court below was, therefore, justified in refusing to hold the statute void on its face.
Second. The court thought the plaintiff had the burden of showing that the sums exacted from rail carriers
substantially exceeded the amounts expended for regulation and supervision, and the proofs offered were insufficient to shift the burden to the defendant. This view
was erroneous. Foote & Co. v. Stanley, 232 U. S. 494.
In that case it appeared that the plaintiffs were packers
of oysters taken from the waters of Maryland, Virginia,
and New Jersey, and shipped to Baltimore. A statute
of, Maryland required that the oysters be inspected at
Baltimore. It imposed a charge of one cent a bushel "to
help defray the expenses of such inspection and the other
expenses of the State Fishery Force, upon all oysters unloaded from vessels at the place where said oysters are
to be no further shipped in bulk in vessels." The plaintiffs refused to pay the exaction and, upon threat of eriforcement, filed a bill in a state court for injunction
alleging the fee was excessive, a burden on interstate commerce, and a violation of the constitutional provision that
"No state shall, without the consent of the Congress, lay
any imposts or duties on imports or exports except what
may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection
laws." The Maryland Court of Appeals [117 Md. 335;
82 Atl. 380] affirmed a decree dismissing the bill and this

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WASHINGTON.
154

163

Opinion of the Court.

court reversed its decision. The plaintiff asserted that as
the act laid the fee for the expense of inspection, "and
other expenses," it was obvious that the state had provided for the collection of more than was necessary for inspection. To this the state answered that the section
levying the fee was but a part of an elaborate system of
inspection imposed upon the state fishery force. It apieared from the evidence, as it does here, that the fishery
force had duties other than those of inspection which
were to be paid for out of the fund produced by the fees.
This court said (p. 503):
"But while the two duties may sometimes overlap,
there is a difference between policing and inspection.
and if the State imposes upon one set of officers the performance of the two duties and pays the whole or a part
of the joint expenses out of inspection fees, it must be
made to appear that such tax does not materially exceed
the cost of inspection-the burden in such cases being
on those seeking to collect the combined charge."
And said further (p, 506):
"But the commingling of these various duties, paid for
out of a fund raised for inspection, does not necessarily
show that the fee is excessive. For the presumption of
invalidity arising from such intermingling might be met
by carrying the burden of showing that, while the statute
required payment out of such joint fund, the collections
were not sufficient, but only helped, to pay the definitely
ascertained expenses of inspection. The question of reasonableness, therefore, may be considered in the light of
the practical operation of the law with a view of determining, with reasonable certainty, the permanent relation between the amount collected and the cost of
inspecting."
The court examined the -evidence as to the operation of
a prior law-which levied the same charge per bushel and
which the challenged act superseded, consisting of the

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

annual reports of the comptroller, and found therefrom
that one-third of the amount collected was sufficient to
pay the cost of inspection and the other two-thirds had
been appropriated to "other expenses of the Fishery
Force." In the light of the operation of the previous
act, and the failure of the state to show that the amount
collected under the new law would not be more than
was necessary for the expenses of inspection proper, the
challenged statute was held void.
There are factual distinctions between the cited case
and the instant one, but they do not affect the binding
authority of the former. The law under consideration
in the Foote case was purely an inspection measure.
That here under review is characterized by the state
court as one for regulation and inspection. The specific
mandate of the Federal Constitution limiting state inspection fees to an amount absolutely necessary for executing a state's inspection laws' was treated in the Foote
case as raising the same issue as was presented in earlier
decisions with respect to the bearing of the commerce
clause upon the imposition of regulatory and inspection
fees imposed upon local property of interstate enterprises. And the cases decided under the commerce clause
dealing with the reasonableness of regulation and inspection fees have been treated by this court as apposite to
the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment. In the
Foote case reference to the atcounts and records kept
by state authority disclosed the extent of the excess of
receipts over expenditues, whereas here it is demonstrated that while expenses other than those of inspection
and regulation of railroads are paid out of the fees, the
amount of the excess over what is necessary for regulation and inspection cannot be ascertained from the de:
partment's accounts. The Foote case is authority that
in such circumstances the burden is on those seeking to
collect the charge.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WASHINGTON.
154

Opinion of the Court.

The State Supreme Court, after holding that the plaintiff failed to carry its burden, and that no duty of showing
the amount necessary for inspection and regulation of
railroads lay upon the defendant, proceeded to discuss
the evidence and reached the conclusion that the proof
preponderated in favor of the defendant. This conclusion was based upon the testimony of the department
auditor that he had found from memoranda furnished
him, and data collected by him, what had been expended
in connection with railroads exceeded what they had
paid. As already noted the appellant insists that this
evidence was inadmissible and lacked value because
hearsay.
The state court said:
"While the account kept by the auditor Was not official,
in the sense that of itself it was admissible in evidence,
yet what the auditor did in that respect qualified him
to testify as to the ultimate fact. Without further detailing the evidence, we will say that in our opinion, and
in so far as there was any evidence on the subject, it preponderated against the findings made by the court as to
the cost of supervising and regulating railroads."
Passing the appellant's contention that a federal right
may not be denied under the guise of the application of
a state rule of evidence, 4 we come to the question
whether, when the asserted right ham been denied, this
court is concluded by a finding of fact or a mixed finding of law and fact made by the state court. We have
repeatedly held that in such case we must examine the
evidence to ascertain whether it supports the decision
against the claim of federal right. A recent exposition
14 Compare Mackay v. Dillon, 4 How. 421, 447; Dower v. Richards,
151 U. S. 658, 667; Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. v. Backus, 154
U. S.. 439, 443; CedarRapids Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S. 655,
668; Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219, 239; Central Vermont Ry. v.
White, 238 U. S. 507, 512; Hill v. Smith, 260 U. S. 592, 594.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

of the doctrine is found in Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S.
587, a case coming here from a state court, in which
the appellant claimed that he had been denied due process
by the systematic and intentional exclusion of negroes
from the jury lists. - The state court held that the evidence did not establish such exclusion. This court reviewed the evidence, reached a conclusion contrary to
that of the state court, and reversed the judgment. At
pp. 589-590 it was said:
"The question is of the application of this established
principle to the facts disclosed by the record. That the
question is one of fact does not relieve us of the duty
to determine whether in truth a federal right has been
denied. When a federal right has been specially set up
and claimed in a state court, it is our province to inquire
not merely whether it was denied in express terms but
also whether it was denied in substance and effect. If
this requires an examination of evidence, that examination must be made. Otherwise, review by this Court
would fail of its purpose in safeguarding constitutional
rights. Thus, whenever a conclusion of law of a state
court as to a federal right and findings of fact are so
intermingled that the latter control the former, it is encumbent upon us to analyze the facts in order that the
appropriate enforcement of the federal right may be'
assured."
In Beidler v. South Carolina Tax Comm'n, 282 U. S. 1,
the validity of a state inheritance tax act was challenged
in a state court, the claim being that the act operated
to take property without due process if held to apply to
property having no situs in the state. The state court
held that intangible property, the transfer of which was
sought to be taxed, had acquired a business situs in South
Carolina. This court reexamined the question, in the
light of the evidence, and overruled the state court's decision, saying (p. 8):

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WASHINGTON.
154

167

Opinion of the Court.

"But a conclusion that debts have thus acquired a
business situs must have evidence to support it, and it
is our province to inquire whether there is such evidence
when the inquiry is essential to the enforcement of a
right suitably asserted under the Federal Constitution."
In Johnson Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 290 U. S. 158, there
was drawn in question the validity of ad valorem taxes
laid under a state statute upon the entire fleet of the
appellant's tank cars. It was charged that the cars did
not have a situs within the state and there was, therefore, no jurisdiction to tax them. The Supreme Court
of the state held that all the cars had their taxable situs
within the state. This court examined the evidence,
reached a contrary conclusion, and reversed the judgment, saying (pp. 159-160):
"As the asserted federal right turns upon the determination of the question of situs, it is our province to
analyze the facts in order to apply the law, and thus to
ascertain whether the conclusion of the state court has
adequate support in, the evidence."
Citation of authority for the same principle might be
multiplied indefinitely."
While holding the testimony of the department
auditor competent, the state court omits to refer to the
fact that the figures he presented were not allocated so
as to show the amounts spent for inspection and regulation and those expended for other so-called railroad
charges which could not be imposed upon the railroads.
15 Kansas City Southern Ry. v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S.
573, 591; Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246, 261; Northern
Pacific Ry. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 593; Interstate Amusement
Co. v. Albert, 239 U. S. 560, 566; Truax v. Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312,

324; Ward & Gow v. Krinsky, 259 U. S. 503, 511; Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Dunken, 266 U. S. 389, 394; Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S.
380, 385; Ancient Order v. Michaux, 279 U. S. 737, 745; Consolidated
Textile Corp. v. Gregory, 289 U. S. 85, 86.

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
CDOzO, J., dissenting.

300 U. S.

As has been pointed out, the evidence is uncontradicted
and conclusive that the sums he mentioned as having
been expended for railroad account did include substantial, and apparently large, amounts for activities in the
interest of interstate shippers and for the trial of reparation cases. It is impossible to sustain the state court's
conclusion that such testimony had any probative value
upon the sole issue in the cause, which was whether
the statute subjects the railroads to an unreasonably
excessive charge for inspection and regulation. As was
said in the Foote case, the state is at liberty to intermingle duties involving costs properly chargeable to the
railroads, with others involving costs not so chargeable,
but if it does so, and the exaction is challenged, it must
assume the burden of showing that the sums exacted
from the appellant do not exceed what is reasonably
needed for the service rendered. The State failed to
carry this burden.
It results that the judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
* MR. JUSTICE CAmnozo, dissenting.
To show that the revolving fund was used as a common pot for the regulation of public utilities generally,
irrespective of their special function, does not make out
a case of wrong to railroads considered as a separate class
or to appellant in particular. For the purposes of this
case there is no need to inquire whether anything in the
Fourteenth Amendment forbids the recognition of a single and all-inclusive class of public service corporations
without further subdivision. If the prohibition be assumed, still the burden is on the railroads to satisfy the
court that what was contributed by them was more than
what was expended for their account, since otherwise
the common pot may have been a help and not a hurt.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WASHINGTON.
154

169

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

That burden was not discharged. Far from being discharged, there was a disclaimer of any attempt or purpose to discharge it. And so the case must fail. Norfolk
& Western Ry. Co. v. North Carolina,297 U. S. 682, 688,
689, 690.
The decision in Foote v. Stanley, 232 U. S. 494, much
relied on by appellant, is inapplicable here. That was a
case under Article I, § 10, of the Constitution, which provides that "no State shall, without the consent of the
Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection Laws." Maryland passed an act
for the payment of charges, characterized as inspection
fees, upon imports of oysters from neighboring states.
The "inspectors" did more than inspect the oysters; they
policed the waters of Chesapeake Bay, being thus policemen as well as inspectors. On its face the act provided
that a fee of one cent per bushel should be "levied to help
pay the salary of the inspectors and the other expenses of
the State Fishery Force." 232 U. S. at 505. In these circumstances the ruling was that in a suit for an injunction
brought by the importers the state had the burden of
showing that the fee was not an unreasonable one for the
service of inspection as distinguished from the other services covered thereby. Imposts upon interstate commerce being generally prohibited, and being lawful only
when "absolutely necessary" for the purpose of inspection, a charge covering the service of inspection and also
something else must collapse in its entirety unless the
state is in a position to break it up into its elements. A
power has been granted to be used in exceptional conditions. The state must bring itself within the exception if it seeks to act within the grant.
A very different situation confronts us in the case at
hand. Here the statute of the state does not trespass
upon a field of legislation where entry is forbidden with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

300 U. S.

out the license of the nation. What has been done is
well within the field of general legislative power, with
every presumption of validity back of it. In such circumstances the burden of making good a claim of inValidity, and thus establishing an exception is' on the
assailants of the rule, and not on its proponents. The
conclusion becomes clearer when the statute is analyzed
more closely. All that it does is to exact of public utilities generally (with particular exceptions) a fee of
1/10th of one per cent of their gross revenues, confined,
however, to operations in intrastate commerce, the fee
when collected to be paid into a revolving fund. Laws
of Washington, 1929, c. 107; Laws of 1923, c. 107; Laws
of 1921, c. 113. Another statute (Laws of Washington,
1929, c. 108) lMys a heavier tax (1%), to be paid into
the same fund, upon the receipts of auto-transportation
companies. Steamship companies of a stated class are
subject to a special rule, the fee in their case being 1/5th
of one per cent. Laws of Washington, 1927, c. 248.
Plainly there is no presumption that these varying contributions are out of proportion to the expenses incurred
in supervising and regulating the several classes of contribu tors. Illegality, if there is any, is to be found in the
administration of the statute, and not in anything inherent in its essential scheme and framework. That
being so, the taxpayer may not rest upon a showing of
possible overpayment. There must be a showing of an
overpayment not merely possible but actual, and one
substantial in amount. Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v.
North Carolina,supra; Foote v. Stanley, supra. To hold
otherwise would be to go counter to the settled rule that
"one who would strike down a state statute as obnoxious
to the Federal Constitution must show that the alleged
unconstitutional feature injures him." Premier-Pabst
Sales Co. v. Grosscup, 298 U. S. 22a, 227. Analogies
,drawn from the law of trasts are inapposite Qnd mis-

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WASHINGTON.
154

171

CAiozo, J., dissenting.

leading. The state does not collect the taxes or place
them in the fund as trustee for the contributor or for
any one else. It receives the moneys and expends them
as an owner, charged with no other duty to a particular
group of taxpayers than to members of the public
generally.
The burden resting on the railroads to show that the
use of the common pot has resulted to their damage, the
record must be scrutinized to see whether the burden has
been borne. In that scrutiny there is no denial of a
duty to inquire whether the decision of the state court,
irrespective of its surface protestations, amounts in substance and reality to the denial of a federal right. Norris
v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 589; Beidler v. South Carolina
Tax Comm'n, 28' U. S. 1, 8. There is a recognition of
the duty, and an endeavor to fulfill it.
1. The trial court suggested to counsel for appellant
that it would be interesting to know whether the.amount
that had been collected through the tax upon the railroads was in excess of the amount expended for their
benefit. Counsel responded that he would not embark
on that inquiry. His position was stated to be that the
act was invalid on its face, in which event it would be
vain to pursue the subject further. This court by its
opinion has rejected that contention. The act is not invalid on its face, whether valid or invalid otherwise.
2. Explaining or at least supplementing the refusal to
compare disbursements and receipts, counsel stated on
the trial that there were no records available. But the
contrary was clearly proved. The auditor of the Department of Public Works caused the employees of the
Department to submit vouchers or slips descriptive of
their services with an appropriate segregation and apportionment among the several classes of utilities. He
testified on the basis of these reports, which -were on file
in his office, that disbursements for account of the rail-

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
CARDozo,

J., dissenting.

300 U. S.

roads were in excess by $37,833.14 of the railroads' contributions. Counsel for appellant expresses his belief
that inspection 'and discovery of the contents of the
vouchers would have yielded inadequate information.
His business was to look and see.
3. The objection will not hold that tbe documents
might be ignored for the. reason that, if produced, they
would be incompetent as evidence. Apart from the possibility of examining the /-men who made them, it is the
law of the state of Washington, declared in this very
case, that the slips and vouchers so filed in the course
of the business of the bureau were sufficient to support
the testimony of the auditor as to the conclusions to
be drawn from them. Referring to. that subject, the
court said: "While the account kept by the auditor was
not official, in the sense that of itself it was admissible
in evidence, yet what the auditor did in that respect
qualified him to testify as to the ultimate fact. Without
further detailing the evidence, we will say that in our
opinion, and in so far as there was any evidence on the
Subject, it preponderated against the findings made by
the [trial] court as to the cost of supervising and reguUtihg railroads."
Whether the evidence thus accepted and relied upon
would be rejected by other courts either as hearsay or on
other grounds is quite beside the point. The Fourteenth
Amendment does not confine the states to the common
ldw rules of evidence, however well established. West v.
Louisiana,194 U. S. 258, 262, 263; Brown v. New Jersey,
175 U. S. 172, 174, 175; Twining v. New Jersey, 211
U. S. 78, 101; Luria v. United States, 231 U. S. 9, 25.
"'The State is not tied down by any provision of the Federal Constitution to the practice and procedure which
existed at the common law." Brown v. New Jersey,
supra. The acceptance of the testimony of the auditor
does not touch the privilege of confrontation in a prose-

-

154

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. WASHINGTON.
CARDOZO,

173

J., dissenting.

cution for a crime. Snyder v. Massachusetts, 291 U. S.
97, 106. It does not substitute hearsay for direct testimony generally or as to every possible issue arising in a
case. At most it is an enlargement of the common law
rule as to entries in books of account or in public or official
documents. Cf. Wigmore, Evidence, vol. 3, § 1517 et seq;
§ 1630 et seq.
Hearsay is competent evidence by the law of many
enlightened countries. Stumberg, Guide to the Law and
Legal Literature of France, pp. 148, 149; Encyclopedia
of the Social Sciences, Title "Evidence"; vol. v., pp. 646,
647. Even at common law it is competent at certain
times and for certain purposes, though narrowly restricted. Wigmore, Evidence, vol. 3, § 1420 et seq.;
Thayer, A Preliminary Treatise on Evidence at the Common Law, p. 518. The range of its competence has been
greatly enlarged by statutes in many of the states, as,
e. g., in the administration of Workmen's Compensation
Laws, and by the relaxation of ancient rules as to entries
in accounts. Dodd, Administration of Workmen's Compensation, pp. 227-236; Wigmore, Evidence, Supplement,
1934, §§ 1519, 1520; Morgan and others, The Law of
Evidence, p. 51; New York Civil Practice Act, § 374 a;
cf. Massachusetts Bonding & Insurance Co. v. Norwich
Pharmacal Co., 18 F. (2d) 934; Cub Fork Coal Co. v.
Fairmont Glass Co., 19 F. (2d) 273; United States v.
Cotter, 60 F. (2d) 689. The question may be laid aside
whether a change in the law of evidence might be so
radical and unjust as to work a destruction of fundamental rights and thus a denial of due process. Brown
v. New Jersey, supra, p. 175. Assuming such a possibility, there is nothing in this ruling to make it a reality.
If the legislature of Washington had passed a statute
to the effect that vouchers in a public office, filed by the
employees at the bidding of a superior, should be prima
facie evidence of the truth of their contents, it is not open

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
CARDozo, J., dissenting.

300 U. S.

to doubt that such a statute would be valid. It would
not even involve an extreme departure from common law
analogies rooted in the presumption of official regularity. What a state may do in changing the rules of
evidence through the action of its legislature, it may do
with equal competence through the action of its judges,
for anything to the contrary in the Constitution of the
United States.
4. Appellant did not discharge its burden by proving
in a vague way that gome of the disbursements classified
by the auditor as a. charge against the railroads were
incidental to proceedings conducted before the Interstate
Commerce Commission or elsewhere for the benefit of
private shippers and were not properly a part of the
expense of local regulation.
The Attorney: General takes the ground that disbursements from the revolving fund, if made for that purpose,
were without authority of law. If that be so, they
cannot avail to invalidate the statute, though they may
lay the basis for a remedy in behalf of the state or
others against the officers or agents guilty of unintentional misfeasance. Aside, however, from that objection,
there was no attempt by appellant to prove the amount
of these or like withdrawals in even the roughest fashion.
There was no suggestion, much less evidence, that they
would wipe out the-excess of $37,833.14 stated by the
auditor. An inquiry directed to the point would have
yielded in all likelihood an estimate at least approxiIf such inquiry was inadequate, the
mately correct.
slips and vouchers were available for scrutiny and dissection. Examination of the auditor in connection with
the documents would have shown forth the truth.
The presumption of validity which sustains an act of
legislation is unbroken by the evidence.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE, .MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
JUSTICE STONE join in this opinion.

and MR.

