AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. HAWORTH.
216

227

Syllabus.

The notion that Congress intended to tax the mere
hope of recouping a loss sometime in the future should
be definitely rejected.
To support the assertion that here the company collected interest, when in fact everything received was
worth less than the sum loaned, requires resort to theory
at war with patent facts. The Company got nothing
out of which to pay the exactment; its assets were not
augmented. Like imaginary "receipts" of interest often
repeated and similarly burdened would hasten bankruptcy.
Divorced from reality taxation becomes sheer oppression.
AETNA LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. HAWORTH ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 446.

Argued February 4, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.

1. The Federal Declaratory Judgment Act deals with "controversies"
in the constitutional sense and is procedural only. P. 239.
2. In the exercise of its control over practice and procedure of the
lower federal courts, Congress is not limited to traditional forms
or remedies but may create and improve as well as abolish or
restrict. P. 240.
3. A controversy, in the constitutional sense and in the sense of the
Declaratory Judgment Act, must be justiciable-it must be definite
and concrete, touching the legal relation of parties having adverse
legal' interests-it must be a real and substantial controversy admitting of specific relief through a conclusive decree, as distinguished from an opinion advising what the. law would be upon a
hypothetical statement of facts. P. 240.
4. There may be adjudication of the rights of parties without award
of process or payment of damages and where no allegation of
irreparable injury is made. P. 241.
5. Where the holder of life insurance policies claims, under disability benefit clauses, that, notwithstanding nonpayment of
premiums, the policies, by reason of his total and permanent dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

ability, remain in force and entitle him to cash benefits, and makes
repeated and persistent demands upon the insurer accordingly;
whereas the insurer denies that such disability existed and insists
that the policies have lapsed because the premiums were not paid,
there is an "actual controversy" on which suit may be maintained
by the insurer against the insured under the Federal Declaratory
Judgment Act P. 242.
84 F. (2d) 695, reversed.

CERTIORAW, 299

U. S. 536.

This suit by the Insurance Company, under the Federal Declaratory Judgment Act, was dismissed by the
District Court upon the ground that there was no justiciable controversy. 11 F. Supp. 1016. The decree was
affirmed by the court below.
Mr. E. R. Morrison, with whom Messrs. Berkeley Cox
and Douglas Stripp were on the brief, for petitioner.
The Declaratory Judgment Act is constitutional.
Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288;
Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry.v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249.
The bringing of this suit does not deprive respondents
of a jury trial. The Act makes express provision for
submission of questions of fact to a jury.
There is an actual controversy within the meaning of
the Declaratory Judgment Act and the Federal Constitution.
The allegations of the petition show there is a controversy of a definite, specific and substantial character.
The claims of the policy-holder have been clearly and repeatedly asserted in writing, and petitioner's denials of
these claims have been equally specific and consistent.
The respective rights of the parties depend upon a determination of the single clear-cut issue-whether disability existed when payment of premiums ceased. The
right of the petitioner to treat the policies as lapsed became complete when premium payments ceased, if the'

AETNA LIFE- INS. CO. v. HAWORTH.
227

229

Argument for Petitioner.

requisite disability did not then exist. On the other
hand, the right of the insured to disability benefits and
the maintenance of the policies in force during the
continuance of disability then became complete if such
disability did exist.
This is not an attempt to obtain an opinion based
on an uncertain or hypothetical state of facts, as in Libeity Wirehouse Co. v. Grannis, 273 U. S. 70.
The claims of the insured are not mere expressions of
opinion in private conversation, as in Willing v. Chicago
Auditorium Assn., 277 U. S. 274, 288, nor indefinite and
unspecific as in New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328.
On the contrary, they are couched in formal language,
attested before a notary public, and accompanied by a
physician's sworn certificate. At frequent intervals and
at least thirteen times, beginning in 1930, these claims
have been reasserted in similar form.
The present suit is similar in its essential characteristics

to Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249.
See also Gully v. Interstate Natural Gas Co., 82 F. (2d)
145, cert. den., 298 U. S. 688; Travelers Insurance Co.
v. Helmer, 15 F. Supp. 355; New York Life Ins. Co. v.
London, 15 F. Supp. 586.
The allegations of the j etition disclose a situation
which would enable the policyholder to maintain an
action against the petitioner.
A party who would normally be defendant under other
forms of procedure may seek a declaration under the Act.
Fidelity National Bank & Trust Co. v. Swope, 274 U. S.
123; Travelers Insurance Co. v. Helmer, supra; New
York Life Ins. Co. v. London, supra.
There are other decisions by the federal district courts
holding that suits may be brought under the Act by the
party to the controversy who would normally otherwise
-be the defendant. Ohio Casualty Co. v. Plummer, 13 F.
Supp. 169; Commercial Casualty Co. v. Humphrey, 13 F.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

Supp. 174; Black v. Little, 8 F. Supp. 867; Lionel Corp.
v. De Filippis, 11 F. Supp. 712; Zenie Bros. v. _i1skend,
10 F. Supp. 779; McKesson & Robbins v. Charsky, 15 F.
Supp. 209.
Like holdings have been made in numerous cases under
state declaratory judgment acts. American Motorists
Ins. Co. v. Central Garage, 86 N. t. 362; Owen v.
FletcherSavings & Trust Co., 99 Ind. App. 365; Pulsifer
v. Walker, 85 N. 11. 434; Hess v. Country Club Park, 213
Cal. 613; Tolle v. Struve, 124 Cal. App. 263; Utica
Mutual Ins. Co. v. Glennie, 132 Misc. Rep. 899; Woodward v. Fox West Coast Theaters, 36 Ariz. 251. Also in
England. Guaranty Trust Co. v. Hannay & Co., (C. A.)
2 K. B. 536, 555 (1915). See Faulkner v. Keene, 85
N. H. 147,-155; Borchard in Chicago Law Review, 1936,
Vol. 4, No. 1.
The report of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary
accompanying the bill to amend the Judicial Code by
adding a new section to be numbered 274D, Report No.
1005, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., May 10, 1934; Borchard,
Declaratory Judgments, p. 634, states the elements required for rendering a declaratory judgment. It is not
indicated that there must be either a pending suit or a
threat of immediate suit by the parties against whom the
declaration is sought. The cases do not make such a
requirement.
One of the primary purposes of declaratory judgment
procedure is to provide means for the prompt settlement
of controversies. This objective would not be attained
if a party asserting a claim could prevent his adversary
from instituting an action by the simple expedient of not
stating when he proposed to sue to enforce the claim.
Petitioner is entitled to prompt and efficient relief and
should not be compelled to wait until such time as its
adversaries choose to bring suit. Bank v. Stone, 88 Fed.
383, 391, opinion by Judge Taft with whom sat Mr.

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. HAWORTH.
227

231

Argument for Petitioner.

Justice Harlan and Judge Lurton; Mutual Life Ins. Co.
v. Pearson, 114 Fed. 295; Lincoln National Life Ins. Co.
v. Hammer, 41 F. (2d) 12. See Tolle v. Struve, 124 Cal.
App. 263; Petition of Kariher, 284 Pa. 455, 463.
The repeated, formal assertions of claim by the policyholder in the case at bar are far more conclusive as showing a determination to enforce these claims by court
action than would be a mere threat to sue.
A decision in this suit will be a final determination of
the controversy. Fidelity National Bank & Trust Co. v.
Swope, 274 U. S. 123.
The fact that rights which might subsequently accrue
cannot be determined in this suit is no ground for refusing to determine present rights asserted in the form of a
justiciable controversy.
The cases cited by respondents in this connection
simply lay down the rule that the judgment must finally
dispose of the than existing controversy. Cf. Lewis v.
Greene, L. R. (1905), 2 Ch. Div. 340.
The fact that the respondents could obtain a final judgment in their favor on the cause of action disclosed in
the petition for a declaratory judgment would seem to
be conclusive proof that a declaratory judgment rendered
under the petition would possess all the essential elements of finality.
The right to be free from an unfounded claim, or to
know whether a claim is well founded, and the right to
treat a contract as ended, may well be considered rights
within the meaning of the Act.
But the Act does not limit declarations to declarations
of rights. It provides for a declaration of "rights and
other legal relations." Rights must have been considered legal relations by the Congress, else the word "other"
would not have been included. If a right is a legal relation, then the corresponding obligation must necessarily
be a legal relation. Therefore, whether or not petitioner

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

has rights to be declared, it is entitled to come into court
and ask for a declaration as to its obligations.
There is ample authority for the proposition that a
declaration of immunity from asserted claims is a proper
one under the Act. Sen. Rep. No. 1005, 73d Cong., 2d
Sess., 1934. Seo Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Wallace,
supra; Gully v. Interstate Natural Gas Co., supra;
Guaranty Trust Co. v. Hannay & Co., C. A. 2 K. B.
536 (1915); Societe Maritime & Commercial v. Venus
S. S. Co., 9 Comm. Cas. 289 (1904); Borchard, Declaratory Judgments, pp. 74 et seq._
However, petitioner's claim that there are rights and
other legal relations disclosed by the petition which are
properly the subject of a declaration, does not need to be
based entirely upon the proposition that immunity from
obligation comes within that phrase of the Act. If it is
determined that the policyholder has been totally disabled,
then the relationship of the insured and insurer exists between him and petitioner, and the relationship of creditor
and debtor also. If a declaration is granted as prayed by
petitioner, then neither of these relationships exist between it and the policyholder. Cf. Columbian National Life Ins. Co. v. Foulke, 13 F. Supp. 350, 352.
Irreparable injury need not be alleged, but is alleged
and exists in this case.
The plaintiff is required annually toset aside substantial reserves for each of the policies until it is judicially
determined that they have lapsed and are null and void.
The setting aside of these reserves constitutes more than
a bookkeeping entry, and we submit that the court of
appeals was in error in holding that the company's "control over such funds is neither modified nor affected" by
the notices served upon petitioner by the respondents.
The status of insurance reserves was considered by this
Court in Maryland Casualty Co. v. United States, 251
U. S. 342, 350.

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. HAWORTH.
227

233

Argument for Respondents.

So long as these reserves are required to be set up by
the company, they constitute in a very real sense both a
segregation of assets and a liability of the company.
Not only the company, but all of its policyholders are
interested in seeing that premiums are promptly collected on all outstanding policies, and that in all cases of
defaulted premiums the policies shall be promptly forfeited or cancelled. All matters affecting the rights and
interests of the policyholder directly affect the business
of the company. New York Life Ins. Co. v. Statham,
93 U. S. 24, 29.
There are other reasons why a denial of the relief
prayed for and the resulting delay in the determination
of this controversy would be injurious to petitioner. ' By
ยง 5929, Rev. Stats., Missouri, 1929, an insurer may be
subjected to a penalty of 10% of the claim, and the payment of opposing party's attorney's fee, for vexatious
delay in claimed payment. This added liability is ordinarily held to be a question for the jury. Gueringer v.
Fidelity & Deposit Co., 184 S. W. 936. If suit should be
brought for accumulated disability benefits and petitioner
should be held liable therefor, it would be compelled to
pay interest at the rate of .6% per annum from the date
that the respective payments were due, under the provisions of ยง 2839, Rev. Stats., Missouri, 1929.
It is unconscionable that the respondents should have
the right to hold this claim "as a menace and threat over
the head of the complainant," while in the meantime
evidence may become "lost or unavailable." Schmidt v.
West, 104 Fed. 272. Relief in equity has often been
granted to avoid postponement of litigation to a "time
when the facts- are no longer capable of complete proof
or have become involved in the obscurities of time."
Story, Eq. Juris., ยง 705.
Mr. Rees Turpin for respondents.
The petition does not present an actual or justiciable
controversy. The Declaratory Judgment Act does not

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondents.

300 U. S.

change the essential requisites for the exercise of judicial
power. Nor' does it for the purposes of the Act make
that a controversy which before its enactment was not
a controversy in the constitutional sense. Ashwander v.
Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288.
The petitioner asks the court to determine a fact, the
only value of which determination would be that it could
be employed by the petitioner as a defense in the event
of a future suit on any of the policies.
When the petition was filed there was no present right
of recovery of an amount sufficient to give a federal court
jurisdiction. The petition, therefore, does not present a
case or controversy between the parties as to the right of
either to a money judgment against the other in a federal
court. The controversy cognizable here, if any there be,
must, therefore, be about something other than a present
right to a judgment for money.
The petitioner says its petition presents a controversy
of fact, the adjudication of which in its favor will be a
good defense to a possible future suit upon policies written in the face amount of more than $3,000.00. It argues
therefrom that the determination of such fact would be a
declaration of rights or legal relations involving the
jurisdictional amount.
The respondents say no controversy in the constitutional sense is presented.
A dispute out of court about the present existence of
a mutable fact, which may become an element in the determinat ion of an action at law that may be commenced
at some future time, is not a controversy in the sense
in which that word is used in the Constitution. Piedmont & Northern Ry. v. United States, 280 U. S. 469;
Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249;
Fidelity National Bank v. Swope, 274 U. S. 123; Willing
v. Chicago Auditorium Assn., 277 U. S. 274; Arizona v.
California,283 U. S. 423; Alabama v. Arizona, 291 U. S.

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. HAWORTH.
227

235

Argument for Respondents.

286; United States v. West Virginia, 295 U. S. 463; New
Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328; Ashwander v. Tennessee
Valley Authority, supra.
It is generally recognized that declaratory judgments
are not applicable to every difference, or to every controversy, that may arise between prospective litigants.
In all jurisdictions it has been declared that the court has
a discretion in determining whether under the law it should
declare a judgment at all in any particular case. Newsum
v. Interstate Realty Co., 152 Tenn. 302; 3 Freeman on
Judgments, 5th ed., par. 1356; Ziegler v. Pickett, 46 Wyo.
283.
The purpose of the proceeding is not to settle any
present "rights or other legal relations," but to settle one
particular fact that may later. be called into question in
a possible suit. The dispute is not even as'to a completed fact capable of exact and final ascertainment, but
as to a fact probably changing and resting somewhat in
opinion. If the insured should now establish the questioned fact, he would not be entitled to a present judgment against the Insurance Company; it would not
determine finally his right to a judgment in a future
action; the adjudication would not be susceptible of violation and could not call for enforcement; it would not
finally adjudicate the standing of the parties.
The declaratory procedure is inappropriate to a judicial investigation of disputed facts, or to an inquiry
where, as here, if the decision should go in one way it
might involve further litigation, or to an inquiry, as here,
that would not necessarily lead to a final determination
of the right of one litigant to recover against the other.
The discretion of the court to refuse to declare a judgment in such cases is generally recognized. Lewis v.
Green, L. R. (1905) 2 Ch. Div. 340; Ziegler v. Pickett,
46 Wyo. 283; Newsum v. Interstate Realty Co., 152
Tenn. 302; 3 FreemAn, Judgments, 5th ed., par. 1356;

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Ladner v. Siegel, 294 Pa. 368; Washington Detroit
Theater Co. v. Moore, 249 Mich. 673; 41 Yale L. J.,
June, 1932, p. 1195; 45 Harv. L. Rev., p. 1089.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question presented is whether the District Court
had jurisdiction of this suit under the Federal Declaratory
Judgment Act. Act of June 14, 1934, 48 Stat. 955; Jud.
-Code, ยง 274D; 28 U. S. C. 400.1
The question arises upon the plaintiff's complaint which
was dismissed by the District Court upon the ground that
it did not set forth a "controversy" in the constitutional
sense and hence did not come within the legitimate scope
'of the statute. 11 F. Supp. 1016. The decree of dismissal
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 84 F. (2d)
695. We granted certiorari. November 16, 1936.
1

The Act provides:
"(1) In cases of actual controversy the courts of the United States
shall have power upon petition, declaration, complaint, or other
appropriate pleadings to declare rights and other legal relations of
any interested party petitioning for such declaration, whether or not
further relief is or could be prayed,, and such declaration shall have
the force and effect of a final judgment or decree and be reviewable
as such.
"(2) Further relief based on a declaratory judgment or decree may
be granted whenever necessary or proper. The application shall be
by petition to a court having jurisdiction to grant the relief. If the
application be deemed sufficient, the court shall, on reasonable notice,
require any adverse party, whose rights have been adjudicated by
the declaration, to show cause why further relief should not be
granted forthwith.
"(3) When a declaration of right or the granting of further relief
based thereon shall involve the determination of issues of fact triable
by a jury, such issues may be submitted to a jury in the form of
interrogatories, with proper instructions by the court, whether a
general verdict be required or not."

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. HAWORTH.
227

237

Opinion of the Court.

From the complaint it appears that plaintiff is an
insurance company which had issued to the defendant,
Edwin P. Haworth, five policies of insurance upon his
life, the defendant Cora M. Haworth being named as
beneficiary. The complaint set forth the terms of the
policies. They contained various provisions which for the
present purpose it is unnecessary fully to particularize.
It is sufficient to observe that they all provided for certain benefits in the event that the insured became totally
and permanently disabled. In one policy, for $10,000,
issued in 1911, the company agreed, upon receiving the
requisite proof of such disability and without further payment of premiums, to pay the sum insured, and dividend
additions, in twenty annual instalments, or a life annuity
as specified, in full settlement. In four other policies
issued in 1921, 1928 and 1929, respectively, for amounts
aggregating $30,000, plaintiff agreed upon proof of such
disability to waive further payment of premiums, promising in one of the policies to pay a specified amount
monthly and in the other three to continue the life insurance in force. By these four policies the benefits to be
payable at death, and the cash and loan values to be
available, were to be the same whether the premiums
were paid or were waived by reason of the described
disability.
The complaint alleges that in 1930 and 1931 the.insured ceased to pay premiums on the four policies last
mentioned and claimed the disability benefits as stipulated. He continued to pay premiums on the first mentioned policy until 1934 and then claimed disability
benefits. These claims, which were repeatedly renewed,
were presented in the form of affidavits accompanied by
certificates of physicians. A typical written claim on the
four policies is annexed to the complaint. It states that
while these policies were in force, the insured became

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

totally and permanently disabled by disease and was
"prevented from performing any work or conducting any
business for compensation or profit"; that on October 7,
1930, he had made and delivered to the company a
sworn statement " for the purpose of asserting and claiming his right to have these policies continued under the
permanent and total disability provision contained in
each of them"; that more than six months before that
date he had become 'totally and permanently disabled
and had furnished evidence of his disability within the
stated time; that the annual premiums payable in the
year 1930 or in subsequent years were waived by reason
of the disability and that he was entitled to have the
policies coninued in force without the payment of premiums so long as the disability should continue.
With respect to the policy first mentioned, it appears
that the insured claimed that prior to June 1, 1934,
when he ceased to pay premiums, he had become totally
and permanently disabled; that he was without obligation to pay further premiums and was entitled to the
stipulated disability benefits including the continued life
of the policy.
Plaintiff alleges that consistently and at all times it has
refused to recognize these claims of the insured and has
insisted that all the policies had lapsed according to their
terms by reason of the non-payment of premiums, the
insured not being totally and permanently disabled at
any of the times to which his cI'aims referred. Plaintiff
further states that taking loans into consideration four
of the policies have no value and the remaining policy
(the one first mentioned) has a value of only $45 as extended insurance. If, however, the insured has been
totally and permanently disabled as he claims, the five
policies are in full force, the plaintiff is now obliged to
pay the accrued instalments of cash disability benefits
for which two of the policies provide, and the insured

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. HAWORTH.
227

239

Opinion of the Court.

has the right to claim at any time cash surrender values
accumulating by reason of the provisions for waiver of
premiums, or at his death, Cora M. Haworth, as beneficiary, will be entitled to receive the face of the policies
less the loans thereon.
-Plaintiff thus contends that there is an actual controversy with defendants as to the existence of the total
and permanent disability of the insured and as to the
continuance of the obligations asserted despite the nonpayment of premiums. Defendants have not instituted
any action wherein the plaintiff would have an opportunity to prove the absence of the alleged disability and
plaintiff points to the danger that it may lose the benefit
of evidence through disappearance, illness or death of
witnesses; and meanwhile, in the absence of a judicial
decision with respect to the alleged disability, the plaintiff in relation to these policies will be compelled to maintain reserves in excess of $20,000.
The complaint asks for a decree that the four policies
be declared to be null and void by reason of lapse for
nonpayment of premiums and that the obligation upon
the remaining policy be held to consist solely in the duty
to pay the sum of $45 upon the death of the insured,
and for such further relief as the exigencies of the case
may require.
First. The Constitution limits the exercise of the judicial power to "cases" and "controversies." "The term
'controversies,' if distinguishable at all from 'cases,' is
so in that it is less comprehensive than the latter, and
includes only suits of a civil nature." Per Mr. Justice
Field in In re Pacific Railway Comm'n, 32 Fed. 241, 255,
citing Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 431, 432. See
Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346, 356, 357; Old
Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716, 723,
724. The Declaratory Judgment Act of 1934, in its
limitation to "cases of actual controversy," manifestly

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

has regard to the constitutional provision and is operative only in respect to controversies which are such in
the constitutional sense. The word "actual" is one of
emphasis rather than of definition. Thus the operation
of the Declaratory Judgment Act is procedural only.
Ih providing remedies and defining procedure in relation
to cases and controversies in the constitutional sense the
Congress is acting within its delegated power over the
jurisdiction of the federal courts which the Congress is
authorized to establish. Turner v. Bank of North
America, 4 Dall. 8, 10; Stevenson v. Fain, 195 U. S. 165,
167; Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226,
234. Exercising this control of practice and procedure
the Congress is not confined to traditional forms or traditional remedies. The judiciary clause of the Constitution "did not crystallize into changeless form the
procedure of 1789 as the only possible means for presenting a case or controversy otherwise cognizable by the
federal courts." Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 264. In dealing with methods
within its sphere of remedial action the Congress may
create and improve as well as abolish or restrict. The
Declaratory Judgment Act must be deemed to fall within
this ambit of congressional power, so far as it authorizes
relief which is consonant with the exercise of the judicial
function in the determination of controversies to which
under the Constitution the judicial power extends.
A "controversy" in this sense must be one that is
appropriate for judicial determination. Osborn v. United
States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 819. A justiciable controversy is thus distinguished from a difference or dispute
of a hypothetical or abstract character; from one that is
academic or moot. United States v. Alaska S. S. Co., 253
U. S. 113, 116. The controversy must be definite and
concrete, touching the legal relations of parties having

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. HAWORTH.
227

241

Opinion of the Court.

adverse legal interests. South Spring Gold Co. v. Ama,dor Gold Co., 145 U. S. 300, 301; Fairchild v. Hughes,
258 U. S. 126, 129; Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S.
447, 487, 488. It must be a real and substantial controversy admitting of specific relief through a decree
of a conclusive character, as distinguished from an opinion advising what the law would be upon a hypothetical
state of facts. See Muskrat v. United States, supra; Texas
v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 258 U. S. 158, 162;
New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S.328, 339, 340; Liberty
Warehouse Co. v. Grannis, 273 U. S. 70; New York v.
Illinois, 274 U. S. 488, 490; Willing v. Chicago Auditorium Assn., 277 U. S. 274, 289, 290; Arizona v. California, 283 U. S.423, 463, 464; Alabama v. Arizona, 291
U. S.286, 291; United States v. West Virginia, 295 U. S.
463, 474, 475; Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority,
297 U. S.288, 324. Where there is such a concrete case
admitting of an immediate and definitive determination
of the legal rights of the parties in an" adversary proceeding upon the facts alleged, the judicial function may be
appropriately exercised although the adjudication of the
rights of the litigants may not require the award of
process or the payment of damages. Nashville, C. &
St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, supra, p. 263; Tutun v. United
States, 270 U. S. 568, 576, 577; Fidelity National Bank
v. Swope, 274 U. S. 123, 132; Old Colony Trust Co. v.
Commissioner, supra, p. 725. And as it is not essential
to the exercise of the judicial power that an injunction
be sought, allegations that irreparable injury is threatened are not required. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co.. v.
Wallace, supra, p. 264.
With thee principles governing the application of the
Declaratory Judgment Act, we turn to'the nature of the
controversy, the relation and interests of the parties, and
the relief sought in the instant case.
130607*37-16

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Second. There is here a dispute between parties who
face each other in an adversary proceeding. The dispute relates to legal rights and obligations arising from
the contracts of insurance. The dispute is definite and
concrete, not hypothetical or abstract. Prior to this suit,
the parties had taken adverse positions with respect to
their existing obligations. Their contentions concerned
the disability benefits which were to be payable upon prescribed conditions. On the one side, the insured claimed
that he had become totally and permanently disabled and
hence was relieved of the obligation to continue the payment of premiums and was entitled to the stipulated
disability benefits and to the continuance of the policies
in force. The insured presented this claim formally, as
required by the policies. It was a claim of a present,
specific right. On the other side, the company nmade an
equally definite claim that the alleged basic fact did not
exist, that the insured was not totally and permanently
disabled and had not been relieved of the duty to continue
the payment of premiums, that in consequence the policies had lapsed, and that the company was thus freed
from its obligation either to pay disability benefits or to
continue the insurance in force. Such a dispute is manifestly susceptible of judicial determination. It calls, not
for an advisory opinion upon a hypothetical basis, but for
an adjudication of present right upon established facts.
That the dispute turns upon questions of fact does not
withdraw it, as the respondent seems to contend, from
judicial cognizance. The legal consequences flow from
the facts and it is the province of the courts to ascertain
and find the facts in order to determine the legal consequences. That is every day practice. Equally unavailing is respondent's contention that the dispute relates
to the existence of a "mutable fact" and a "changeable
condition-the state of the insured's health." The in-

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. HAWORTH.
227

243

Opinion of the Court.

sured asserted a total and permanent disability occurring
prior to October, 1930, and continuing thereafter. Upon
that ground he ceased to pay premiums. His condition
at the time he stopped payment, whether he was then
totally and permanently disabled so that the policies
did not lapse, is not a "mutable" but a definite fact. It
is a controlling fact which can be finally determined and
which fixes rights and obligations under the policies. If
it were found that the insured was not totally and permanently disabled when he ceased to pay premiums and
hence was in default, the effect of that default and the
consequent right of the company to treat the policies as
lapsed could be definitely and finally adjudicated. If it
were found that he was totally and permanently disabled
as he claimed, the duty of the company to pay the promised disability benefits and to maintain the policies in
force could likewise be adjudicated. There would be no
difficulty in either event in passing a conclusive decree
applicable to the facts found and to the obligations of
the parties corresponding to those facts. If the insured
made good his claim, the decree establishing his right to
the disability benefits, and to the continuance of the policies in force during the period of the proved disability,
would be none the less final and conclusive as to the matters thus determined even though a different situation
might later arise in the event of his recovery from that disability and his failure after that recovery to comply with
the requirements of the policies. Such a contention would
present a distinct subject matter.
If the insured had brought suit to recover the disability benefits currently payable under two of the
policies there would have been no question that the
controversy was of a justiciable nature, whether or not
the amount involved would have permitted its determination in a federal court. Again, on repudiation by

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

the insurer of liability in such a case and insistence by
the insured that the repudiation was unjustified because
of his disability, the insured would have "such an interest in the preservation of the contracts that he might
maintain a suit in equity to declare them still in being."
Burnet v. Wells, 289 U. S. 670, 680; Cohen v. N. Y.
Mutual Life Ins. Co., 50 N. Y. 610, 624; Fidelity National.Bank v. Swope, supra. But the character of the
controversy and of the issue to be determined is essentially the same whether it is-presented by the insured
or by the insurer. Whether'the District Court may
entertain such a suit by the insurer, when the controversy as here is between citizens of different States or
otherwise is -within the range of the federal judicial
power, is for the Congress to determine. It is the nature
of the controversy, not the method of its presentation
or the particular party who presents it, that is determinative. See Gully v. Interstate Natural Gas Co., 82 F.
(2d) 145, 149; Travelers Insurance Co. v. Helmer, 15 F.
Supp. 355, 356; New York Life Insurance Co. v. Lbndon,
15 F. Supp. 586, 589.
We have no occasion to deal with questions that may
arise in the progress of the cause, as the complaint has
been dismissed in limine. Questions of burden of proof
or mode of trial have not been considered by the courts
below and are not before us.
Our conclusion is that the complaint presented a controversy to which the judicial power extends and that
authority to hear and determine it has been conferred
upon the District Court by the Declaratory Judgment
Act. The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

