OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

ence in respect of so much of a bank credit arising from
the wrongful disposal of bonds as had been withdrawn
prior to the receivership. Only the balance came to the
receiver. We said, (239): "Evidence is lacking that it
was withdrawn in such a form or for such purposes as
to be represented by any assets forming part of the
estate today."
Respondent was not entitled to a preference. His
right to participation as a general creditor is conceded.
The cause must go back to the District Court with
directions to proceed in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

HENDERSON COMPANY v. THOMPSON

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 397.

Argued February 2, 3, 1937.-Decided March 1, 1937.

Under a Texas statute regulating production and use of natural gas,
"sweet" gas, i. e., gas containing not more than 11/2 grains of hydrogen sulphide per 100 cubic feet, and therefore suitable for heating
and lighting, may not be used for the manufacture of carbon black;
but that substance may be manufactured from "sour" gas, i. e., gas
containing a greater percent. of hydrogen sulphide, not suitable in
its natural state for heating and lighting. As applied to a company
producing or otherwise acquiring "sweet" gas in the Panhandle
field for which it had no market other than to sell for manufacture
of carbon black, held:
1. The evidence does not sustain the contention that the prohibition will not operate to conserve "sweet" gas, as intended, but
will serve only to deprive the complainant of the gas to which it
is entitled,-such contention being based on the hypothesis that
the gas, if not extracted by the company will wander subterraneously to a "sour" gas area of the field and become "sour" gas.
P. 264.
2. There is no basis in the evidence for holding the classification
of "sweet" and "sour" gas arbitrary upon the hypothesis that the
hydrogen sulphide may be removed from the latter at trifling
expense. P. 264.

HENDERSON CO. v. THOMPSON.
258

Counsel for Parties.

3. There is no basis in the evidence for the contention that the
statute discriminates unreasonably by preventing the plaintiff and
others in like position from extracting "sweet" gas and selling it
for the only purpose available, and by suffering it to drain away
meanwhile only to augment the supplies of "sour" gas producers.
P. 265.
4. The evidence does not support the objection that the statute
discriminates illegally by prohibiting the use of sweet gas in carbon
black manufacture while permitting its use as fuel by manufacturers of other articles. P. 266.
5. The effect of the statute upon the contracts of the company
for taking "sweet" gas from producers and delivery to a carbon
black manufacturer is merely incidental and does not violate the
Texas Constitution.

Travelers' Insurance Co. v. Marshall, 124

Tex. 45; 76 S. W. (2d) 1007, distinguished. P. 266.
6. In case of doubt, and in the abs nce of definitive construction
by the state courts, this Court defers to the lower federal court's
understanding of the state constitution. P. 266.
7. The needs of conserving gas in a natural gas field are to be
determined by the legislature; the prohibition of the use of
"sweet" gas in the manufacture of carbon black is not shown in
this case to be an arbitrary exercise of legislative power. Walls v.
Midland Carbon Co., 254 U. S. 300. Pp. 264, 267.
14 F. Supp. 328, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges denying a permanent injunction in a -suit to
restrain enforcement of a Texas statute, c. 120, Acts of
1935, and orders of the Railroad Commission thereunder,
relative to the use of natural gas in the manufacture of
carbon black. The lower court's opinion on an application for a preliminary injunction is reported in 12 F.
Supp. 519.
ante, p. 55.

See also Thompson v. Gas Utilities Corp.,

Mr. L. M. Fischer, with whom Mr. F. W. Fischer was
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Wm.Madden Hill, Assistant Attorney General of

Texas, and Mr. Wm.McCraw, Attorney General, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

whom Messrs. Earl Street, Assistant Attorney General
and C. C. Small were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the,

Court.
The question for decision is whether the prohibition by
Texas of the use of sweet natural gas for the manufacture
of carbon black in the Panhandle field is valid.
The suit is brought in the federal court for western
Texas by the Henderson Company, a Maine Corporation.
It challenges the validity of the following provisions of
Chapter 120 of the Acts of the Legislature of Texas, 1935,
Forty-fourth Regular Session, commonly known as House
Bill 266: Subdivisions (g) and (h) of ยง 2, which define
sweet and sour gas; 1 subdivision (j) of ยง 3, which prohibits the use of sweet gas for the manufacture of carbon
black; 2 and subdivision (1) of ยง 7, which defines the purposes for which sweet gas may be used.' See Thompson
v. Consolidated Gas Utilities Corp., ante, p. 55. The suit
challenges, also, the validity of orders entered by the Railroad Commission pursuant to the statute.
'"See. 2.
"(g) The term 'sour gas' shall mean any natural gas containing
more than one and one-half (11/2) grains of hydrogen sulphide per
one hundred (100) cubic feet or more than thirty (30) grains of
total sulphur per one hundred (100) cubic feet, or gas which in its
natural state is found by the Commission to be unfit for use in
generating light or fuel for domestic purposes.
"(h) The term 'sweet gas' shall mean all natural gas except 'sour
gas' and 'casinghead gas.'"
"Sec. 3. The production, transportation, or use of natural gas in
such manner, in such amount, or under such condi:ions as to constitute waste is hereby declared to be unlawful and is prohibited.
The term 'waste' among other things shall specifically include: ...
"(j) The use of sweet gas produced from a gas well for the manufacture of carbon black. ..."
o "Sec. 7. After the expiration of ten (10) days from the time of
encountering gas in a gas well, no gas from such well shall be per-

HENDERSON'; CO. v. THOMPSON.
258

Opinion of the Court.

The Henderson Company owns and operates in the Panhandle gas field a casinghead gasoline plant which is
connected with 21 gas wells; holds oil and gas leases under which some of these wells are operated; and is under
contract to take gas from the other wells. Prior to the
statute, it received at its plant the gas from all these
wells; extracted therefrom the gasoline content; and had
contracted to supply the residue gas to the Combined
Carbon Company. The orders challenged classified fourteen of the wells as sweet gas wells and prohibited both
taking the gas therefrom for the purpose of processing the
same for its gasoline content and delivery of the residue
for the manufacture of carbon black. The seven remaining wells, classified as sour, cannot furnish the quantity of
gas required by the company in its gasoline plant and to
perform its contract with the Carbon Company. A supply from other sour gas wells is not available; and for
the gas from the fourteen wells classified as sweet there
is no other use.
The bill charges that the statute and the orders entered
thereunder violate the Federal Constitution-the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment and the contract clause; also provisions of
the Constitution of Texas. The members of the Commission and the Attorney General of Texas are made demitted to escape into the air, and all gas produced therefrom shall be
utilized for the following purposes:
"(1) No 'sweet gas shall be utilized except for:
"(a) Light or fuel.
"(b) Efficient chemical manufacturing, other than the manufac-.
ture of carbon black.
. "(c) Bona fide introduction of gas into oil, or gas bearing horizon,
in order to maintain or increase the rock pressure or otherwise increase the ultimate recovery of oil or gas from such horizon.
"(d) The extraction of natural gasoline therefrom when the residue is returned to the horizon from which it is produced."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

fendants. The relief sought is to enjoin enforcement of
the statute, temporarily and permanently.
The jurisdiction, federal and equitable, was' not questioned. Answers were filed. An application for a restraining order was denied. That for a preliminary injunction, promptly heard before three judges, was also
denied, 12 F. Supp. 519. And on final hearing upon an
extensive record a decree was entered denying the permanent injunction and dismissing the bill, 14 F. Supp.
328. Findings of fact and conclusions of law were filed in
compliance with Equity Rule 701/2. The case is here on
appeal.
The findings contain, as in Thompson v. Consolidated
Gas Utilities Corp., a description of the character and the
development of the Panhandle gas field. In the western
field the sweet gas zone lies to the south, occupying about
two-thirds of it; the sour gas zone lies to the north and
occupies about one-third. Plants which strip the gas of
its gasoline content and carbon black plants which use the
residue are apparently accessible to both zones. For
those purposes either sweet or sour gas can be used. For
the sweet gas of the Panhandle field there is also a large
demand for fuel and light. For the sour gas in its natural
state there is practically no use other than in the stripping
and the carbon black plants. There are 29 carbon black
plants in the Panhandle field. These produce more than
70 per cent. of all carbon black manufactured in the
United States; and they consume, on the average, about
550,000,000 cubic feet per day. Intolerable waste had
resulted by use of sweet gas under permits issued by the
Railroad Commission under Chapter 100, Acts 1933,
Forty-third Legislature, Regular Session, which allowed
the use of sweet gas for inferior purposes where there was
no fuel and light market. It was primarily to prevent
such waste that the Legislature prohibited by House Bill

HENDERSON CO. v. THOMPSON.
258

Opinion of the Court.

266 the use of sweet gas in the manufacture of carbon
black.
The court found, among other things:
"There is enough sour gas in reserve in the Panhandle
field to fulfill the world's requirements of carbon black for
many years to come. There is also a tremendous supply
of casinghead gas in the Panhandle field. There is now
available for use in the manufacture of carbon black sufficient allotments under the orders of the Railroad Commission of sour and casinghead gas to supply all the demands and needs of such plants with an excess of 100,000000 cubic feet of casinghead gas over and above the
demand of the carbon black plants.
A producer of sweet gas, if he is able to market
the same for light and fuel purposes, receives about three
or four cents per 1000 cubic feet in the field. When such
gas is delivered at the burner tips it sells for various
greater amounts. The producers of gas who sell to the
companies who strip it and burn it for carbon black receive
less than a cent per 1000 cubic feet."
The company contends that our decision in Walls v.
Midland Carbon Co., 254 U. S. 300, which upheld certain
action of Wyoming in prohibiting as wasteful the use of
natural gas for the production of carbon black, is inapplicable to the issues here presented. The company concedes that Texas may, for the purpose of preventing
waste, regulate both the production and the use of natural gas. It does not deny that when one natural resource is fitted for two uses and another resource only for
one, the Legislature has the power to marshal these resources by classifying them, and designating the uses to
which each may be put. Nor does it deny that the classification and the limitation of the use of sweet gas may
"when considering all of the gas fields in Texas as a
whole, bear a reasonable relation to the purposes sought

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

to be accomplished." But it insist that as applied to the
Panhandle field the classification and prohibition are void,
because, there, they bear no reasonable relation to the
object sought to be attained, and are arbitrarily discriminatory.
First. The contention that in the Panhandle field the
prohibition of the use of sweet gas in the manufacture of
carbon black is arbitrary and unreasonable rests primarily
upon the fact that the sour and the sweet gas wells are
in the same reservoir. The argument is that pressures in
the sour gas area are lower than tlose in the sweet gas
a~ea; that, since there is no free market for sweet gas for
fuel and light, it will, if not used in carbon black manufacture, and if withdrawals of sour gas are permitted to
the extent of the requirements of the carbon black industry, migrate into lower pressure areas and become a part
of the sour gas supply; that, therefore, the supply of sweet
gas will not be conserved; and that the effect of the prohibition of its use in the manufacture of carbon black
will be merely to deprive the company, through the migration, of the gas to which it is entitled. But the lower
court found that the length of time required for such migration is not definitely known and that the demand for
sweet gas for fuel and light is increasing. The needs of
conservation are to be determined by the Legislature.
See Walls v. Midland Carbon Co., 254 U. S. 300, 324.
The loss of sweet gas by migration may be relatively negligible. The court concluded that there is "an abundance
of factual support for the legislative prohibition against
the burning of sweet gas for carbon black." No facts have
been found, or established by the evidence, which would
justify us in pronouncing the action of the Legislature
arbitrary.
Second. The company insists, also, that the prescribed
prohibition is void, because the difference between sweet
gas and sour is solely the presence in the latter of a

HENDERSON CO. v. THOMPSON.
258

Opinion of the Court.

quantity of hydrogen sulphide; that by processing the
sulphide can be eradicated from sour gas at a slight expense; and that the sour gas when so purified is fit for
use for fuel and light. The distinction between sweet
and sour gas fixed by the Legislature at 1 -- grains of
hydrogen sulphide per 100 cubic feet, is found by the
court to be apt. The evidence as to the cost of purifying is widely conflicting. The cost might depend, among
other things, upon the extent of the sulphur content.
The classification made has ample support in the evidence. We are unable to find in the regulation anything arbitrary or unreasonable. Compare Lindsley v.
Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78; Walls v.
Midland Carbon Co., supra, 324.
Third. The company contends that the provisions of
the statute as applied discriminate unreasonably between'
it and other producers similarly situated. The statute
applies equally to all sweet gas wells. The discrimination suggested is in favor of the sour gas well owners.
The argument is that the company has now no fuel and
light market for its sweet gas; that gas may drain into
a sour well; and, if it does, will become sour and be
usable in the manufacture of carbon black. It is not
known when the expected drainage will occur. Long
before that time there may be a fuel and light market
for the company's sweet gas. It is also urged that the
statute discriminates illegally by prohibiting the use of
sweet gas in carbon black manufacture while permitting
its use as fuel by manufacturers of other articles.
There are several differences which would justify the
classification. Among them, this: The daily average
consumption of the 29 carbon black plants is only slightly
less than the average daily amount taken by the pipe
lines for fuel and light purposes. For the carbon black
plants in the Panhandle field the sour gas there affords
an ample supply. For the fuel uses served by the interstate pipe lines sweet gas is practically indispensable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Compare Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana (No. 1), 177 U. S. 190,
211; Walls v. Midland Carbon Co., supra, 317, 322, 324.
Fourth. The company claims that the statute impairs
the obligation of contracts, since it prohibits performance of the company's contracts with producers to take
sweet gas for its stripping plant and its contract to deliver the residue after stripping to the Combined Carbon
Company. The contention is that the contract clause
of the Texas Constitution, unlike that of the Federal Constitution, prevents the State from enacting a police measure which will result in impairing a contract. In support of that proposition, the company cites Travelers'
Ins. Co. v. Marshall, 124 Tex. 45; 76 S. W. (2d) 1007,
decided by the Supreme Court of Texas in 1934. But
that case does not support the proposition. The statute
there held void was a moratorium statute specifically
directed against the terms of contracts. The statute here
challenged is not directed against any term of any contract. It deals merely with the use of an article of
commerce; and its effect upon contracts is incidental.
The distinction was pointed out by the district court,
which said that the Constitution of the State of Texas
"has never been held to avoid a police statute dealing
directly with physical things in the interest of the public welfare, and touching contractual relationships only
incidentally as they may have attached to those physical
things prior to the passage of the statute." 14 F. Supp.
328, 334. That ruling accords with constitutional doctrine long established in this and other courts. If we
felt any doubt as to its application here, in the absence
of a definitive construction of the Constitution of the
State by its highest court, we should defer to the federal
court's understanding of the state law. See Thompson
v. Consolidated Gas Utilities Corp., supra
Fifth. The contention that our decision in the Walls
case is inapplicable is rested in part on the difference,

HENDERSON CO. v. THOMPSON.
258

Opinion of the Court.

as to the title to gas in place, between the law of Wyoming and that of Texas. It is urged that, in the absence of waste, the legislature lacks power to regulate
production in Texas, since there the law gives the owner
of land title to the gas in place and to that which migrates
to formations under his land; whereas in Wyoming regulation for the purpose of protecting correlative rights
of other owners in a common pool is permissible. Upon
this argument we need not pass. One principle established by the Walls case is that the Legislature may, for
the purpose of conserving natural resources, regulate
their production and use. The findings of the district
court in this case support the reasonableness of the present statute on that basis. It is also urged that there is
this vital difference in the facts: that in the Panhandle
field the challenged prohibition will not prevent waste,
or conserve the supply of sweet gas, since the sweet gas,
if not used, will drain into the sour gas area, because
of the lower pressures there. Moreover, it is insisted
that, unlike the Walls case, there is here in the record
convincing evidence that the use of sweet gas in the
manufacture of carbon- black is not wasteful. Our decision in that case rested upon no particular theory of
the nature of the carbon black industry. It was based
simply upon the determination that the statute in question was not shown to have been an arbitrary exercise
of legislative power. Such, likewise, is our judgment
here.
Affirmed.

