OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

The District Court accepted the view approved in Ness
v. Mutual Life Ins. Co. (Fourth Circuit), 70 F. (2d) 59,
and Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Markowitz, (Ninth CirCuit), 78 F. (2d) 396, which presented for interpretation language identical with that now before us. The
Circuit Court of Appeals followed its earlier opinion in
N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Gatti, (Oct. 6, 1936), where the
company employed different language. Certain life companies undertake to make exceptions to the Incontestability clause by words more precise than those now under
consideration, and opinions in cases arising upon their
policies must be appraised accordingly.
Without difficulty respondent could have expressed in
plain words the exception for which it now contends. It
has failed, we think, so to do. And applying the settled
rule, the insured is entitled to the benefit of the resulting
doubt.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed. The decree of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH OF THE MOUN-

TAIN TRUST BANK OF ROANOKE

ET AL..

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 530.

Argued March 3, 4, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

1. A motion to dismiss a petition under.§ 75 (s), as amended, of the
Bankruptcy Act upon the ground that, as applied to the owner of
a farm loan secured by deed of trust, provisions of that subsection
are unconstitutional, held not premature where the farmer debtor
had taken all affirmative action required of him under the section to
initiate proceedings leading to a stay of foreclosure. P. 456.
Louisville Joint Stock Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555, did not

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

441

Syllabus.

question the power of Congress to offer to distressed farmers means
of rehabilitation under the bankruptcy clause.
2. When the validity of an Act of Congress is drawn in question, and
even if a serious doubt of constitutionality is raised, it is a cardinal
principle that this Court will first ascertain whether a construction
of the statute is fairly possible by which the question may be
Lvoided. P. 461.
3. Section 75 (s) of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended, (the new
Frazier-Lemke Act) is construed with committee eports and is
found adequately to preserve the following substantive rights of a
farm mortgagee, which this Court held in Louisville Joint Stock
Land Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555, were not protected before the
amendment, viz., (a) The right to retain the lien until the indebtedness thereby secured is paid; (b) the right to realize upon the
security by a judicial sale; (c) the right to protect the mortgagee's
interest in the property by bidding at such sale whenever held.
P. 458.
4. In the Radford case, supra, it was not held that deprivation of
any one of the five rights of a mortgagee enumerated in the opinion
(pp. 594, 595) would render the original Frazier-Lemke Act invalid,
but that the effect of the statute in its entirety was to deprive the
mortgagee of his property without due process of law. P. 457.
5. While the new Act affords the farmer debtor, ordinarily, a three
year stay of foreclosure, the stay is not an absolute one; the court
may terminate it earlier and order a sale. P. 460.
6. Construed in the light of committee reports, and the exposition of
the bill made in both Houses by its authors and those in charge
of the bill and accepted by the Congress without dissent, the
amended Act gives the court broad power to curtail the stay of
foreclosure, for the protection of mortgagees. The property of
which the debtor retains possession is at all times in the custody
and under the supervision and control of the court. If the debtor
defaults at any time in his obligation to pay a reasonable rental
for the part of the property of which he retains possession, or
fails at any time to comply with orders of the court issued under
its power to require interim payments on principal, or other orders
issued in the course of the court's supervision and control of his
possession, or if after a 'reasonable time it becomes evident to the
court that there is no reasonable hope that the debtor can rehabilitate himself financially within the three year period, or if

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

within that period the court finds that the emergency that gave
rise to the legislation has ceased to exist,-the court may terminate
the stay and order a sale. P. 461.
7. The amended Act is not unconstitutional as applied to a mortgagee
because possession of the property during the stay of foreclosure
is in the debtor subject to the obligations imposed by the Act and
under the supervision and control of the court, rather than in a
receiver or trustee. P. 465.
8. The clause of the amended Act, § 75 (s), par. 2, providing that
the first payment of rental by the debtor in possession shall be
within one year of the date of the stay order, is construed, in
view of the additional requirement that the payments shall be
semi-annual, not as meaning that the debtor may not be required
by the court to pay any rent before the close of the first year,
but as forbidding the court to postpone the payment beyond one
year. So construed, the clause is not unreasonable or arbitrary.
P. 467.
9. The requirement of the amended Act that the rents paid into court
by the debtor in possession during stay of foreclosure shall be
applied first on taxes and upkeep, is consistent with the-constitutional rights of the mortgagee. P. 468.
10. The objection that the amended Act unconstitutionally restricts
a lienor's remedy under the state law by delays interposed to the
enforcement of his rights, is to be tested not by what might be
permitted to a State under the contract clause of the Constitution,
but by whether, as an exercise of the bankruptcy power, for the
rehabilitation of the farmer mortgagor, the Act so far modifies the
lienor's rights, remedial or substantive, as to deny the due process
of law guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment. P. 468.
85 F. (2d) 973, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 537, to review a judgment affirming a judgment of the Bankruptcy Court, 12 F. Supp.
297, which, on the motion of a secured creditor, dismissed
a petition filed by a farmer under § 75, subsection (st as
amended, of the Bankruptcy Act.
Messrs. S. S. Lambeth, Jr., Elmer McClain, and William Lenke for petitioner.

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Argument for Petitioner.

The history and development of bankruptcy legislation
. in the United States have been exhaustively considered
in a number of recent cases in this Court. Continental
Illinois National Bank & Trust Co. v. Chicago, R. I. &
P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648; Louisville Joint Stock Land
Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555; Ashton v. Cameron
County, 298 U. S. 513.
The new Frazier-Lemke Act is based on constitutional
power to enact laws on the subject of bankruptcies, and
is a reasonable exercise of that power. While the new
Act has for its object the conservation and preservation
of agriculture, as did the original Act, yet the methods
and means employed are essentially different.
When this Court held the original Act unconstitutional
in Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford, supra,
the present Act was introduced in both the Senate and
the House. It was referred to the Judiciary Committees,
which referred it to subcommittees for study and consideration with the purpose of complying with the
Court's decision. The bill with the changes and amendments made by the subcommittees was then brought up
before the Committees of the Whole of both the Senate
and the House, and further amendments were made.
Thereafter it was debated on the floors of the Senate and
the House and passed without a dissenting vote in either
House.
There is nothing novel in the new Act. It simply
applies well established principles of bankruptcy law to
agriculture. This may appear novel, but there is no provision of the Act which the bankruptcy courts have not
already passed upon.
The courts have allowed going concerns to remain in
possession, and to continue in business under trustees,
and without trustees. They have permitted possession
and the payment of indebtedness of such concerns on the
instalment plan, with or without interest. In re Reiman,
Fed. Cas. No. 11,673; Sparhawk v. Yerkes, 142 U. S. 114;

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

In re Swofford Co., 180 Fed. 549; Burlingham v. Crouse,
228 U. S. 459.
The courts have scaled down indebtedness to less than
the value of the property, through composition, and they
have given extension of time in which payments were to
be made; and this, at times, against the wishes of the
minority. What can be done to a minority can be done to
a majority or to all of them, secured or unsecured creditors, and still be constitutional. Courts have sold encumbered property free of lien, and unincumbered
property for cash or on time. Cf. In re Merkus, 289 Fed.
732; Traer v. Clews, 115 U. S. 528; In re Waterloo Organ
Co., 118 Fed. 904; Matter of Theiberg, 47 Am. B. R. 257;
Matter of Franklin Brewing Co., 41 Am. B. R. 51; Matter
of Tube Co., 25 Am. B. R. 651; Shinn v. Kemp & Herbert,
73 Wash. 254; Van Huffel v. Harkelrode, 284 U. S. 225.
Section 75 (s) has been held constitutional in many
cases, State and Federal.
Acts of Congress held to be unconstitutional as originally enacted, have on several occasions been held constitutional when reenacted in altered form with the design
of meeting the Court's objections. Cf. Hill v. Wallace,
259 U. S. 44; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olson, 262 U. S.
1; Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463; Second
Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1.
The duty of the Court is to square a new statute with
the Constitution. United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1.
Former decisions on the validity of older statutes are not
stare decisis. Hertz v. Woodman, 218 U. S. 205, 212;
DiSanto v. Pennsylvania,273 U. S. 3, dis. op.
The new subsection (s) provides that any farmerdebtor, who fails under subsections a-r of § 75 to effect a
composition with his creditors, may amend his petition or
answer asking to be adjudged a bankrupt. All the
debtor's property wherever located is then to be appraised

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Argument for Petitioner.

at its fair and reasonable market value. His unencumbered exemptions are set aside to him.
The debtor is allowed to retain possession of any part
or all of the remainder of his property for a period of
three years under supervision and control of the court.
The debtor is required to pay a reasonable rental into
court for the part of the property he retains. This rental
is to be applied first to pay taxes and upkeep of the
property, and the remainder distributed among creditors,
secured and unsecured, and applied on their claims as
their interests may appear. The court is given power to
sell unexempt and perishable personal property if deemed
necessary to protect the interests of creditors. The court
may, if it sees fit, require payments on principal with a
view to the debtor's ability to pay.
After three years have elapsed, or sooner if he desires,
the debtor may pay into court the amount of the appraisal of the property of which he has retained possession, and the court will turn over to him full title to and
possession of that property, free and clear of encumbrances. This procedure is subject to two provisos:
1. On the request of any creditor, secured or unsecured,

or of the debtor, the court'may order a reappraisal of the
property and require the debtor to pay that price. 2. On
the demand of any secured creditor the court must order
the property on which the creditor has a lien sold at
.public auction. If the debtor fails to comply with the
provisions of the Act, or any court order made thereunder,
a trustee may be appointed and the property sold as in
other bankruptcy cases.
It is an Act on the subject of bankruptcies. See In
re Klein (reported in note to Nelson v. Carland, 1 How.
265); In re Reiman, Fed. Cas. No. 11,673; Hanover Nat.
Bank v. Moyses, 186 U. S. 181; Louisville Joint Stock
Land Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555; In re Chicago,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 72 F. (2d) 443; Continental Illinois
Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648.
It does not take property without due process.
In Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford, 295
U. S. 555, holding the first § 75 (s) void, the Court
listed five rights of a secured creditor which were said
to have been impaired. It did not hold the original Act
unconstitutional because of the infringement of all of
these rights. The Court held the Act unconstitutional
because it was in violation of the due process clause of
the Fifth Amendment. In fact, in Continental Illinois
Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648,
this Court, in holding § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act constitutional, must have found that all of these so-called
rights enumerated in the Radford case were qualified
and subject to the Federal Constitution. We say this
because § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, providing for reorganization of railroad corporations, is much more drastic and arbitrary as far as the creditor's rights are concerned than subsection (s) of § 75.
It was held in the Radford case, supra, that the taking
of these five so-called rights as a group had the effect of
substantially impairing the mortgagee's security. It is
clear from a reading of the new Act that rights numbered (1), (2) and (4) are fully and completely preserved.
Rights numbered (3) and (5), "The right to deter-'
mine when such sale shall be held, subject only to the
discretion of the court," and "The right to control meanwhile the'property during the period of default, subject
only to the discretion of the court, and to have the rents
and profits collected by a receiver for tl e satisfaction
of the debt," are not substantive, but retnedial, rights
and as such are subject to control under the bankruptcy
power. They are only relative or remedial rights which

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Argument for Petitioner.

may be, and have been, suspended or taken away without violating the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. Cf. Continental Illinois Bank v. Chicago, R. I.
& P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648, holding the original § 77
of the Bankruptcy Act constitutional. Cf. Campbell v.
Allegany Corp., 75 F. (2d) 947, cert. den., 296 U. S. 581,
holding § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act constitutional.
In no case does § 75 (s) treat creditors' /rights more
arbitrarily than either § 77 or § 77B. In most situations
it does not go nearly so far.
The amendment is a reasonable adaptation of bankruptcy proceedings to farmers' conditions.
In bankruptcy proceedings, the court should be influenced by the consideration that, a man can ordinarily
do better with his own property and realize more therefrom than can be obtained in the course of judicial proceedings, with compulsory sales and expenses of administration. In re Arrington Co., 113 Fed. 498; Dallas
Joint Stock Land Bank v. Davis, 83 F. (2d) 322.
Tlhe amendment is reasonable and the necessity for it
is shown by statistics.
Declaration of the existence of an emergency by a
legislative body cannot be regarded as a subterfuge or
as lacking in adequate basis. Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v.
Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398; Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135.
Recent improvements in farm conditions show that suspension of sale of farm property will benefit both creditor
and debtor.
While the value of farm lands has increased, the agricultural debt structure has rimained practically the same,
except as reduced by foreclosures. The increase in the
value of farm lands has in fact stimulated foreclosures.
There is little money available for farm loans. The truth
is that the farmer who really needs help cannot get it.
As a result, hundreds and thousands of farm foreclosures

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

and evictions are taking place in practically every part
of this Nation.
The purpose of the Bankruptcy Act was two-fold: First,
to provide for an equitable distribution of the bankrupt's
estate among his creditors; second, to rehabilitate the
bankrupt and to give him a fresh start in life free from
the burden of his debts.
The Court has stressed the fact that the Bankruptcy
Act is founded on sound public policy. Stellwagen v.
Clum, 254 U. S. 605; In re Klein, 1 How. 279; Continental Illinois Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S.
648; Canada Southern R. Co. v. Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527,
536.
It is within the power of the Court to transfer the
creditor's lien to the proceeds of a sale of the property,
and to allow the bankrupt to repurchase the property.
Van Huffel v. Harkelrode, 284 U. S. 225; Traer v. Clews,
115 U. S. 528; Sparhawk v. Yerkes, 142 U. S.1.
Congress may, under the bankruptcy power, stay judicial proceedings for three years. Cf. §§ 77, 77B; Home
Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398.
The experience with bankruptcy administration shows
that, even in normal times and under normal conditions,
distribution takes not much less than 3 years. In times
of emergency and economic distress it takes longer, because the problem of liquidation is more difficult and
slow, due to lack of buyers of bankrupt estates.
In the famous rent cases, tenants were allowed to remain in possession over the objection of landlords, provided reasonable rent was paid. Cf. Levy Leasing Co. v.
Siegal, 258 U. S. 242; Marcus Brown Holding Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170; Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135.
The moratorium is a proper exercise of federal police
power within- the respective fields of sovereignty

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Argument for Petitionep.

enumerated in Art. I, § 8, of the Constitution. Congress
may exercise full police power to the same extent that
a state legislature may exercise police power within the
fields of sovereignty not granted to the federal government. Cf. Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries, 251 U. S.
1.46, 156; Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321, 357; McCray
v. United States, 195 U. S. 27, 59; Hipolite Egg Co. v.
United States, 220 U. S. 45, 57, 58; Hoke v. United
States, 227 U. S. 308; Caminetti v. United States, 242
U.S. 470, 492; Seven Cases v. United States, 239 U. S.
510, 514, 515; United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86,
93, 94.
The Fifth Amendment imposes in this respect no
greater limitation upon the national power than does the
Fourteenth Amendment upon state power. In re
Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 438; Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S. 401, 410; Brooks v. United States,
267 U. S. 432, 436; Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135, 155.
The sovereignty of the United States under Art. I,
§ 8, cl. 4, to "estabjish uniform laws on the subject of
bankruptcies," is as untrammeled as any of the other
sixteen cognate sovereignties granted in the same section.
The moratorium in subsection (s) under the power of
Congress to legislate upon "the subject of bankruptcies"
is a proper exercise of the federal police power. It is as
valid as the power of a State to enact a moratorium during the existence of the same emergency under its police
power.
The Act does not deny full faith and credit to state
laws and judicial decrees.
The Act is a uniform law on the subject of bankruptcies.
Even if clause (6) of the Act were held unconstitutional, it can be severed from the rest of the Act.
130607-37-

29

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondents.

300 U. S.

Mr. John Strickler, pro hac vice, by special leave of
Court, and Mr. T. X. Parsons, with whom Messrs. S. V.
Kemp and John F. Reinhardt were on the brief, for
respondents.
It should be especially observed that under the Virginia
law no proceedings in court are necessary to enforce a
deed of trust. Upon notification by the holder of the
debt that there has been a default, the trustee proceeds
to sell the property, and pending sale may rent the
property for the future protection of the creditor. The
sale by the trustee is absolute and final, and the sale will
not be enjoined in Virginia so long as the trustee acts
within the powers given him by the trust instrument or
by state law. It is, therefore, evident that the positions
of the secured creditors in this case and in the Radford
case are similar, with the exception that in this case under
the Virginia law the rights of the creditors are more absolute in form and the exercise of those rights is not
subject to the discretion of the court. See In re Sherman,
12 F. Supp. 297.
Under the operation of this Act some time will be occupied, perhaps several months, in attempting to secure
the relief provided for in the sections preceding subsection
(s), in regard to a composition or extension of the debtor's
obligation with the consent of the creditors; then, when
a petition is filed praying for the relief outlined in subsection (s), a further period of months will be consumed
in having the property appraised and putting the debtor
in the position he must occupy before the stay is granted.
There is a four months' period, which would prolong the
delay, wherein he is given time to object to the appraisement. Then, should the official and judicial procedure
be stayed for a period of three years, no rent will be paid
for one year, since the payment of rent is not a condition
precedent to the operation of the Act. If we compare

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Argument for Respondents.

the position of the creditor under the Virginia law prior
to the passage of this Act with his position thereafter,
we find that not only is the application of the security to
the payment of the debt deferred for three or more years,
but the rents and profits are diverted from him for one
year or more, and even then the rental is paid on taxes
and upkeep of the property in derogation of his rights.
Practically, therefore, the creditor suffers a loss that
may be, as in this case, very substantial. Cf. W. B.
Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh, 295 U. S. 250.
In bankruptcy proceedings, generally, the law governing the validity of liens and property interests is the law
of the locality in which the property is located. See Cox
v. Wallace, 219 Fed. 126.
Congress has no power under the Bankruptcy clause to
modify or impair the interests of mortgagees. Continental Illinois Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry., 294 U. S.
648.
The creditor, by the operation of this Act, has suffered a change of position to his detriment; and the
estate of the debtor has been enlarged thereby. While
the property is in the possession of the debtor under the
supervision and control of the court, the net amounts received by the creditor through rental will be less than
what he would receive with the trustee in possession; and
in addition to that, sale is delayed.
Subsection (s) is so arbitrary and unreasonable in its
operation on the vested rights of creditors as to violate
the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
In this case, the debtor estimates the value of his
assets at $2,882.50. The same schedule shows debts of
$6,559.50, a large part of which is owed to these respondents. The record further shows that this debtor first petitioned for relief under the original Frazier-Lemke Act,
since invalidated, by filing a petition March 29, 1935. His

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondents.

300 U. S.

petition asked that proceedings for foreclosure by appellees be stayed, which, as shown by the record, was done.
The order of reference was entered March 30, 1935, but
it was not until September 27, 1935, that a proposal was
made to the creditors. The original Act having been invalidated and a new law passed in August, 1935, on October 8th this debtor petitioned for further relief, and
on October 12, 1935, the matter was again referred to the
conciliation commissioner. On January 8, 1936, the District Court ordered the case to be dismissed on the
grounds that subsection (s) was unconstitutional, and
thence it has come here on writ of certiorari.
Should the constitutionality of this legislation be upheld, a further order will have to be entered staying
foreclosure proceedings for a period of three years, and
this will be done in spite of the fact that the bankruptcy schedule shows no possible hope of solvency and
contains no possible basis for a financial rehabilitation,
which is claimed as the great objective of this Act. Furthermore, there will be more than another year before
any rental will be paid, at. which time additional taxes
will be due, and a strong probability of diverting the
income for making repairs as provided for in the Act.
The operation of this legislation will postpone any payment to the secured creditor almost indefinitely, whereas
under the law of Virginia the trustee has an immediate
right of possession, and the beneficiary has an absolute
and immediate right to demand sale of the property for
payment of the debt.
If the rule laid down in Home Bldg. & Loan Assn.
v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, and in the Radford case, 295
U. S. 555, is correctly understood, it clearly asserts that,
while the mortgagee is debarred from actual possession,
he should have in rents the equivalent in value of possession during the extended period; also his interest
should be carefully safeguarded.

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Opinion of the Court.

The Bankruptcy Court may sell encumbered property
free of liens, but as was observed in the Radford case,
supra, such sales are held when it is to the interest of
other creditors, and it is a settled principle that sale of
encumbered property will not be ordered by the court if
the amount of the liens exceeds the value of the property.
The contentior? based upon §§ 77 and 77B of the
Bankruptcy Act and Continental Illinois Bank v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry., 294 U. S. 648, was disposed of
by this Court in the Radford case. Large numbers of
creditors must be dealt with as a class. These sections
operate for the best interest of the creditors, and upon
consent of a two-thirds majority in number and amount.
The rights of secured creditors, may thus be modified or
somewhat restricted. But subsection (s) of § 75 works
against the consent of the secured creditor and the restriction of his rights is against his will.
In a railroad reorganization the court is concerned
with a public utility, the bonds of which have been
purchased by the public with full knowledge of the nature
of its business and the need for uninterrupted operation
in the public interest.
The bankruptcy power of Congress is limited by the
Fifth Amendment. Radford case, supra. Congress has
no police power except as incidental to the exercise of
some power delegated in the Constitution. Hamilton v.
Kentucky Distilleries,251 'U. S. 246.
The Frazier-Lemke Act is not an exercise of police
power nor incidental to the bankruptcy powers of
Congress. Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290
U. S. 398, distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question for decision is whether § 75, subsection
(s), of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended by the new

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of thc Court.

300 U. S.

Frazier-Lemke Act, August 28, 1935, c. 792, 49 Stat. 943-

945, is constitutional. In this case, the federal court
for western Virginia (see In re Sherman, 12 F. Supp. 297)

and the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit
(85 F. (2d) 973) held it invalid.

been rendered in other circuits.

Like decisions have

Lafayette Life Insur-

ance Co. v. Lowmon, 79 F. (2d) 887 (Seventh Circuit);
United States National Bank of Omaha v. Pamp, 83 F.
(2d) 493 (Eighth Circuit). In the Fifth Circuit the
legislation was sustained. Dallas Joint Stock Land Bank
v. Davis, 83 F. (2d) 322. Because of this conflict and the
importance of the question, we granted certiorari.1
Wright, a Virginia farmer, gave in 1929 a mortgage
deed of trust of his farm to secure a debt now held by the
Vinton Branch of the Mountain Trust Bank. In March,
1935, he filed a petition under § 75 of the Bankruptcy
Act as amended June 28, 1934, c. 869, 48 Stat. 1289.
'See also Steverson v. Clark, 86 F. (2d) 330, and Knotts v. First
Carolinas Joint Stock Land Bank, id., 551 (Fourth Circuit), applying
the decision in the instant case; McWilliams v. Blackard, id., 328, and
Phoenix Joint Stock Land Bank v. Ledwidge, id., 355 (Eighth Circuit), applying the decision in United States NationalBank of Omaha
v. Pamp, supra; and Schauer v. Producers Wool & Mohair Co., id.,
576 (.Fifth Circuit), applying the decision in Dallas Joint Stock Land
Bank v. Davis, s'.pra. The cases in the district courts are also conflicting. The legislation was sustained in In re Slaughter, 12 F. Supp.
206 (N. D. Tex.); In re Reichert, 13 id., 1 (W. D. Ky.); In re Cole,
id., 283 (S. D. Ohio); In re Bennett, id., 353 (W. D. Mo.); and In
re Chilton, 16 id. 14 (D. Colo.). Compare In re Paul, 13 id. 645
(S. D. Iowa); In re Slaughter, id., 893 (N. D. Tex.). It 'vas held
invalid in In re Young, 12 F. Supp. 30 (S. D. Ill.); In re Lindsay,
id., 625 (N. D. Iowa); In re Weise, id., 871 (W. D. N. Y.); In re
Davis, 13 id. 221 (E. D. N. Y.); In re Diller, id., 249 (S. D. Cal.);
In re Tschoepe, id., 371 (S. D. Tex.); In re Schoenleber, id., 375
(D. Neb.); In re Wogstad, 14 id. 72 (D. Wyo.); and In re Maynard,
15 id. 809 (D. Idaho). Compare In re Shonkwiler, 17 F. Supp.
697, 699 (E. D. Ill.).

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Opinion of the Court.

When the proceedings were begun, the debt secured by
the deed of trust had matured and was in default, and
the trustee, at the request of the beneficiary, had advertised the property for sale pursuant to the terms of the
deed of trust and the provisions of the Virginia Code.
The debtor's petition prayed, among other things, "that
all proceedings against him by way of pending and advertised foreclosures of his farming lands, or by other
methods contrary to the provisions" of the Act be stayed.
The petition, "appearing to be in proper form and to have
been filed in good faith," was referred to the Conciliation
Commissioner as required by § 75. On July 27, 1935,
the debtor made a proposal for composition; but it was
not accepted by the mortgage creditor. On October 8,
1935, Wright filed an amended petition under subsection
(s) of § 75 as amended by the new Frazier-Lemke Act;
and asked to be adjudged a bankrupt and to have all the
benefits of the provisions of said subsection (s) as so
amended and approved August 28, 1935.
An order was entered adjudging Wright a bankrupt
and again referring the matter to the Conciliation Commissioner. Thereafter, the Vinton Branch of the Mountain Trust Bank moved in the District Court that the
proceedings before the Commissioner be terminated and
"that this case be dismissed upon the ground that Subsection (s) of said Act is unconstitutional in that it deprives
said creditor of its property without due process-of law
and that the debtor is not entitled to pursue the remedies
and privileges granted therein." On January 8,1936, that
motion was granted; all proceedings on the bankrupt's
petition were terminated; and his petition was dismissed.
It is that order, affirmed by the Court of Appeals, which
is here for review. Both of the lower courts held that,
since the applicable rights of a mortgagee in Kentucky
and of the beneficiary under a mortgage deed of trust in

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Virginia are substantially the same, our decision in Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555,
required that subsection (s) be held unconstitutional.
First. The mortgagee claims that the legislation is void
on its face. It challenges the power of Congress to confer upon courts authority to grant to a mortgagor, under
any circumstances, any of the relief provided for in subsection (s) of the new Frazier-Lemke Act. There has
been no order granting a stay under Paragraph 2 of subsection (s). But the motion is not premature; for the fact
that no stay order has been entered does not imply that
an actual constitutional controversy is not presented.
The petitioner asserts a right to pursue proceedings provided by a federal statute, and that right has been denied
him on grounds of the alleged invalidity of the statute.
Before the motion to dismiss was made, the district court
had entered its order adjudging petitioner a bankrupt, and
referring the matter to the conciliation commissioner
for further proceedings under § 75 (s). The entry of the
order of reference initiated proceedings designed to move,
through the appointment of appraisers, the appraisal, and
the referee's order recognizing the debtor's right to possession, to the grant of the stay by the court. Under the
Act no further affirmative action by petitioner precedent
to his obtaining the stay was necessary. The mortgagee
was not obliged to delay his challenge to the validity of
the stay and its essential incidents until these officials
had complied with the mandatory provisions of the Act.
But while we must decide whether the challenged subsection is constitutional, we refrain from deciding questions suggested which may arise later in the course of its
administration.
Second. The decision in the Radford case did not question the power of Congress to offer to distressed farmers
the aid of a means of rehabilitation under the bankruptcy
clause. The original Frazier-Lemke Act was there held
invalid solely on the ground that the bankruptcy power of

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Opinion of the Court.

Congress, like its other great powers, is subject to the
Fifth Amendment; and that, as applied to mortgages
given before its enactment, the statute violated that
Amendment, since it effected a substantial impairment of
the mortgagee's security. The opinion enumerates five
important substantive rights in specific property which
had been taken. It was not held that the deprivation of
any one of these rights would have rendered the Act invalid, but that the effect of the statute in its entirety was
to deprive the mortgagee of his property without due process of law. The rights enumerated were (pp. 594-595):
"1. The right to retain the lien until the indebtedness
thereby secured is paid.
"2. The right to realize upon the security by a judicial
public sale.
"3. The right to determine when such sale shall be held,
subject only to the discretion of the court.
"4. The right to protect its interest in the property by
bidding at such sale whenever held, and thus to assure
having the mortgaged property devoted primarily to the
satisfaction of the debt, either through receipt of the proceeds of a fair competitive sale or by taking the property
itself.
"5. The right to control meanwhile the property during
the period of default, subject only to the discretion of the
court, and to have the rents and profits collected by a
receiver for the satisfaction of the debt."
In drafting the new Frazier-Lemke Act, its framers
sought to preserve to the mortgagee all of these rights so
far as essential to the enjoyment of his security. The
measure received careful consideration before the committees of the House and the Senate. Amendments were
made there with a view to ensuring the constitutionality
of the legislation .recommended. The Congress concluded, after full discussion, that the bill, as enacted, was
free from the objectionable features which had been held
fatal to the original Act.

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

•300 U. S.

Third. It is not denied that the new Act adequately
preserves three of the five above enumerated rights of a
mortgagee. "The right to retain the lien until the indebtedness thereby secured is paid" is specifically covered by the provisions in Paragraph 1, that the debtor's
possession, "under the supervision and control of the
court," shall be "subject to all existing mortgages, liens,
pledges, or encumbrances," and that:
"All such existing mortgages, liens, pledges, or encumbrances shall remain in full force and effect, and the property covered by such mortgages, liens, pledges, or encumbrances shall be subject to the payment of the claims of
the secured creditors, as their interests may appear." 2
"The right to realize upon the security by a judicial
public sale" is covered by the provision in Paragraph 3
that at the termination of the stay:
! Amendments t6 the bill subsequent to its introduction plainly
demonstrate careful intention to leave the lien wholly unimpaired.
As introduced, the measure provided for retention of the lien 'up to
the actual value of such property, as fixed by the appraisals provided
for in this section,' S. 3002, § 6, p. 6 (Compare Act of June 28, 1934,
c. 869, Subsec. (s), (2), 48 Stat. 1290); and there was no provision
for a public sale at the request of the secured creditor. As reported
.out of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, and as subsequently
enacted, the measure provided for retention of the lien unqualified by
reference to the appraisal value of the property. See S. 3002, as reported, § 6, p. 6; Sen. Rep. No. 985, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 3. As
reported by the committee, the bill provided for a public sale in the
discretion of the court, upon request of the secured creditor, and
limited the lienholder's bid at such sale to 'the appraised value or the
original principal, whichever is the higher.' S. 3002, supra, § 6, p. 9;
Sen. Rep. No. 985, supra, pp. 4, 6. Since the latter qualification was
thought to raise some constitutional doubt, it was eliminated during
the Senate's consideration of the measure. See statements of Senators Ashurst and Borah, of the Committee on the Judiciary, -and of
Senator Frazier, 79 Cong. Rec. 13413, 13633, 13634, 13641. The
House Committee on the Judiciary reported the bill with this change.
H. R. Rep. No. 1808, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1, 4, 6.

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

459

Opinion of the Court.

"... upon request in writing by any secured creditor
or creditors, the court shall order the property upon which
such secured creditors have a lien to be-sold at public
auction."
The new Act does not in terms provide for "The right
to protect its [the mortgagee's] interest in the property

by bidding at such sale whenever held . . ."

But the

committee reports and the explanations given in Congress
make it plain that the mortgagee was intended to have
this right.' We accept this view of the statute.
'As introduced, S. 3002 contained the provision of the Act by
wN.hich the mortgagor might purchase at the appraised value, subject

to the mortgagee's right to require a re-appraisal; but it did not provide that the mQrtgagee might, in lieu of a re-appraisal, have a public
sale. The bill as reported by the Senate Committee on the Judiciary
inserted after the provision for appraisal a clause providing, "That
upon request in writing by any secured creditor or creditors, the
court, in its discretion, if it deems it for the best interests of the secured creditors and debtor, may order the property upon which such
secured creditors have a lien, to be sold at public auction; . . ."
S. 3002, as reported, § 6, p. 9; see Sen. Rep. No. 985, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 4. "To remove a question as to the constitutionality of the
bill," this provision was altered in the course of the bill's passage
through the House to deprive the court of discretion in the matter
and to give the secured creditor an unqualified right to a public sale
as the alternative to a transfer of the property to the debtor at the
re-appraised value. See remarks of Representative Sumners, of the
House Committee on the Judiciary, 79 Cong. Rec. 14332-33.
' As reported by the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, S. 3002,
§ 6, p. 9, recognized a right in the mortgagee to bid at the sale not in
excess "of the appraised value or the original principal, whichever is
the higher." See Sen. Rep. No. 985, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 4, 6.
In striking out this qualification for the express purpose of avoiding
a constitutional doubt, Senators responsible for the measure plainly
showed that they had no intention of raising a further constitutional
controversy by questioning the mortgagee's unqualified right to bid.
See statements of Senators Ashurst, Borah, and Frazier, 79 Cong.
Rec. 13413, 13633, 13634, 13641-42. H. R. Rep. No. 1808, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1, 5-6, unequivocally declared that under the Act

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Fourth. The claim that sub-section (s) is unconstitutional rests mainly upon the contention that the Act
denies to a mortgagee the "right to determine when such
sale shall be held, subject only to the discretion of the
court." The assertion is that the new Act in .effect gives
to the mortgagor the absolute right to a three-year
stay; and that a three-year moratorium cannot be justified. The three-year stay is specified in the following
provisions:
"When the conditions set forth in this section [§ 75]
have been complied with, the court shall stay all judicial
or official proceedings in any court, or under the direction
of any official, against the debtor or any of his property,
for a period of three years." (Par. 2.)
"At the end of three years, or prior thereto, the debtor
may pay into court the amount of the appraisal of the
property of which he retains possession, including the
amount of encumbrances on his exemptions, up to the
amount of the appraisal, less the amount paid on principal." (Par. 3.)5
Whether, in view of the emergency, an absolute stay
of three years would have been justified under the bankruptcy power, we have no occasion to decide. There are
the secured creditors have the right to bid at the sale; and this was

made clear on the floor of the House by Representative Suimners, of
the Committee on the Judiciary. See 79 Cong. Rec. 14333.
The beneficiary under a mortgage deed of trust in Virginia is permitted to bid in the property at the sale. See, e. g., Ashworth v.
Tramwell, 102 Va. 852, 858, 47 S. E. 1011; Title Insurance Co. v.
Industrial Bank, 156 Va. 322, 327, 157 S. E. 710; Everette v. Wood-ward, 162 Va. 419, 174 S. E. 864. Compare Easton v. GermanAmerican Bank, 127 U. S. 532, 538.
' This clause is qualified by alternative provisos, one for payment
at a reappraised value, the other for a public sale to be held upon the
mortgagee's request at the time when the stay expires, whether by
lapse of time or by the mortgagor's payment into court of the
appraised or reappraised value. See Note 3, supra.

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Opinion of the Court.

other provisions iii the statute affecting the mortgagor's
right to possession. Their phraseology is lacking in
clarity. But we are of opinion that, while the Act affords
the debtor, ordinarily, a three-year period of rehabilitation, the stay provided for is not an absolute one; and
that the court may terminate the stay and order a sale
earlier. If we were in doubt as to the intention of Congress, we should still be led to that construction by a
well settled rule: "When the validity of an act of the
Congress is drawn in question, and even if a serious doubt
of constitutionality is raised, it is a cardinal principle that
this Court will first ascertain whether a construction of
the statute is fairly possible by which the question may be
avoided." Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22, 62.
The mortgagor's right to retain possession during
the stay is specifically limited by paragraph 3, which
provides:
"If, however, the debtor at any time fails to comply
with the provisions of this section, or with any orders
of the court made pursuant to this section, or is unable
to refinance himself within three years, the court may
order the appointment of a trustee, and order the property sold or otherwise disposed of as provided for in this
Act."
Thus, for example, the debtor's tenure under the stay
is subject to the requirement that he pay "a reasonable
rental semiannually for that part of the property of which
he retains possession." Under the last-quoted provision
of Paragraph 3, if the debtor defaults in this obligation
"at any time," the court may thereupon order the property sold. Likewise, the property while in the debtor's
possesssion is kept, according to Paragraph 2, at all times
"in the custody and under the supervision and control of
the court"; and, also under Paragraph 2:
"The court, in its discretion, if it deems it necessary to
protect the creditors from loss by the estate, and/or to

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U.S.

conserve the security,... may, in addition to the rental,
require payments on the principal due and owing by the
debtor to the secured or unsecured creditors, as their interests may appear, in accordance with the provisions of
this Act, and may require such payments to be made
quarterly, semiannually, or annually, not inconsistent
with the protection of the rights of the creditors and the
debtor's ability to pay, with a view to his financial
rehabilitation."
Paragraph 3 authorizes the court to have the property
sold if "at any time" the debtor should fail to comply with
orders of the court issued under its power to require interim payments on principal, or otherwise in the course of
its "supjevision and control" of his possession. Paragraph
3 also provides that "if . . . the debtor at any time . . .
is unable to refinance himself within three years," the
court may close the proceedings by selling the property. This clause must be interpreted as meaning that
the court may terminate the stay if after a reasonable time
it becomes evident that there is no reasonable hope that
the debtor cAn rehabilitate himself within the three-year
period.6 Finally, the intention of Congress to make the
'This construction is in harmony with the requirement of good
faith in the initiation of proceedings under § 75. Relief under
§ 75 (s) may be obtained only by one who has made a bona fide
attempt, and has failed, to effect a composition under § 75, (a)-(r).
The offer of composition must be in good faith, [§ 75, (c), (i), 47
Stat. 1471, 1472], and if the debtor is beyond all reasonable hope of
financial rehabilitation, and the proceedings under § 75 cannot be
expected to have any effect beyond postponing inevitable liquidation,
the proceedings will be halted at the outset. The practical administration of § 75 in the lower courts already affords ample evidence of
the substantial protection afforded the creditor by this requirement
of good fhith in the initiation of proceedings under subsections
(a)-(r). See In re Borgelt, 79 F. (2d) 929; Dallas Joint Stock Land
Bank v. Davis, 83 id. 322, 323; Stevenson v. Clark, 86 id. 330;

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Opinion of the Court.

stay terminable by the court within the three years is
shown also by Paragraph 6, which declares the act an
emergency measure, and provides that:
"if in the judgment of the court such emergency ceases to
exist in its locality, then the court, in its discretion, may
shorten the stay of proceedings herein provided for and
proceed to liquidate the estate."
Since the language of the Act is not free from doubt
in the particulars mentioned, we are justified in seeking
enlightenment from reports of Congressional committees
and explanations given on the floor of the Senate and
House by those in charge of the measure.' When the legKnotts v. First Carolinas Joint Stock Land. Bank, id. 551; In re
Reichert, 13 F. Supp. 1, 4, 5; In re Paul, id., 645, 647; In re Buxton's
Estate, 14 id. 616; In re Vater, id., 631; In re Schaeffer, id., 807;
In re Duvall, id., 799; In re Byrd, 15 id. 453; In re Wylie, 16 id. 193,
194; In re Price, id., 836, 837. Compare In re Chilton, 16 F. Supp.
14, 17; In re Davis, id., 960. It must be assumed that the situation
of the present debtor was not beyond all reasonable hope of rehabilitation, else he could not have qualified to file his petition at the outset. Compare Tennessee Publishing Co. v. American National Bank,
299 U. S. 18, 22.
' This provision is not inconsistent with the constitutionaf require.
ment that laws established by Congress on the subject of bankruptcies
shall be uniform throughout the United States. Art. 1, § 8, cl. 4.
The problem dealt with may present significant variations in different
parts of the country. By Paragraph 6 the Bankruptcy Act adjusts
its operation to these variations, as under other provisions it has
adjusted its operation to the diffeiing laws of the several States affecting dower, exemptions, and other property rights. Compare Hanover
National Bank v. Aloyses, 186 U. S. 181, 189; Stellwagen v. Clum,
245 U. S. 605, 613. The authority granted by Paragraph 6 does not
exceed limits of authority familiarly exercised by courts. See Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 69; compare Chastleton
Corp. v.Sinclair, 264 U. S. 543.
'Where the meaning of legislation is doubtful or obscure, resort
may be had in its interpretation to reports of Congressional committees which have considered the measure, (McLean v. United

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

islative history of the bill is thus surveyed, it becomes
clear that to construe the Act otherwise than as giving
the courts broad power to curtail the stay for the protection of the mortgagee would be inconsistent not only with
provisions of the Act, but with the committee reports
and with the exposition of the bill made in both Houses
by its authors and those in charge of the bill and accepted
by the Congress without dissent.' We construe it as giving the courts such power.
States, 226 U. S. 374, 380; Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United
States, 280 U. S. 420, 435); to exposition of the bill on the floor
of Congress by those in charge of or sponsoring the legislation,
(Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 475; Richbourg Motor Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 528, 536); to comparison of successive drafts or amen. ments of the measure, (United
States v. Pfitsch, 256 U. S.547, 551; United States v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 287 U. S. 144, 155); and to the debates in general in
order to show common agreement on purpose as distinguished from
interpretation of particular phraseology, .(Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Raladam Co., 283 U. S. 643, 650; Humphrey's Executor v. United
States, 295 U. S.602, 625).
" Emphasis upon the deliberate intention to meet the constitutional
objections raised in Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford,
295 U. S. 555, dominated the consideration of the bill in all stages.
See e. g., Sen. Rep. No. 985, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1, 3; H. R.
Rep. No. 1808, id., pp. 1, 3; statements of Senator McCarran, 79
Cong. Rec. 11971; Senator Ashurst, ibid.; Senator Borah, id., 13411,
13632, 13642; Representative Lemke, id., 14331, 14332; and Representative Sumners, id., 14333. There was no dissent on constitutional
grounds apart from the doubts which were disposed of as described
in notes 2, 3, and 4, supra. Comparing the present measure with
the former § 75 (s), Sen. Rep. No. 985, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 5,
pointed out that "the amended subsection (s) shortens the time of
the stay of proceedings from 5 to 3 years, and . . . gives the
court power to shorten that stay. It gives the court complete jurisdiction and custody of the property, with authority to fix the rental
annually, and to sell perishable property and personal property
that is not necessary for the debtor's farming operations. It will
also be noticed that the court can require payments over and above
the rental value. In other words, in the amended subsection (s),

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
Opinion of the Court.

440

Fifth. It is urged that subsection (s) is unconstitutional because there is taken from the mortgagee "the
right to control meanwhile the property during the period
of default, subject only to the discretion of the court,
the property is virtually in the complete custody and control of the
court, for all purposes of liquidation. . . ." Likewise, it was said in
H. R. Rep. No. 1808, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 5, that "The new
subsection (s) shortens the time of the stay of proceedings from
5 to 3 years, and in addition gives the court power to shorten that
period. . . . Under the new subsection (s) the property of the
bankrupt is in the complete custody and control of the court, for
all the purposes of liquidation." And at p. 6: "The Supreme
Court intimated that in the original subsection, the district court
did not have suffictent discretion. In this subsection, the district
court is given complete control and discretion."
Discussion of the bill in the Senate is reported in 79 Cong. Rec.
11970-71, 13348-49, 13411-13, 13632-45.
In the Senate discussion there occurred the following (79 Cong.
Rec. 13633):
"Mr. BORAH. The court is given power in the bill to make sale
of the property whenever the court deems it in the interest of all
parties to do so.
"Mr. HASTINGS. During the 3 years?
"Mr. BORAH. Yes. In the case of perishable property, or property which is not bringing in any income, or anything of that-kind,
the court has power to make sale of it.
"Mr. FRAZIER. The bill gives the court authority to sell the
property, if it deems it advisable, at any time. The court may sell
any part of it or all of it at any time before or during or after the
3 years."
Discussion of the .bill in the House is reported in 79 Cong. Rec.
13831, 14331-34. Presenting the bill, as reported from committee,
Representative Lloyd explained: "We have in no way reduced the
security of the mortgagee. We have left his security intact, but we
have made it possible for the bankruptcy court to retain jurisdiction
for a period not to exceed 3 years." 79 Cong. Rec. 13831.
There also occurred in the House the following (79 Cong. Rec.
14332):
"Mr. FORD of California. Is it not designed to give to the farmer
a breathing spell so that he may orient himself in such a way as to
130607*-37-

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

and to have the rents and profits collected by a receiver
for the satisfaction of the debt."
(a) The argument is that possession by the mortgagor
during the stay is necessarily less favorable to the mortgagee than possession by a receiver or trustee would be.
This is not true. The mortgagor is in default, but it is
not therefore to be assumed that he is a wrongdoer, or
incompetent to conduct farming operations. The legislation is designed to aid victims of the general economic
depression. The mortgagor is familiar with the property,
and presumably vitally interested in preserving ownership thereof and ready to exert himself to the uttermost
to that end. It is not unreasonable to assume that, under
these circumstances, the interests of all concerned will
be better served by leaving him in possession than by installing a disinterested receiver or trustee. For the mortgagor holds possession charged with obligations imposed
for the benefit of the mortgagee as fully as if the property
were in the possession of a receiver or trustee, and there
is probably a saving of expense. In order to protect the
creditor's interests, the possession is at all times subject
to the supervision and control of the court; and, if the
debtor, "at any time," fails to comply with orders of the
get out of his present difficulties without in the least jeopardizing
the lien of his creditors?
"Mr. LEMKE. Absolutely, and the district judge has complete
control all the time of the farmer's property.
"Mr.

All it does is to give a 3-year extension for
the time of the redemption if the court so directs.
"Mr. LEMKE. Under the supervision and control of the court."
Despite some apparent similarity of language, the remarks quoted
from the discussion in the Senate do not seem to have been addressed
to the second proviso of paragraph 3 as it then stood, but to have
been intended more generally, expressing the plan embodied in the
last sentence of paragraph 3. See S. 3002, as reported from comANDRESEN.

mittee, § 6, p. 9,

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Opinion of the Court.

court issued in the exercise of its supervisory power to
protect the mortgagee against waste or other abuse of his
possession by the mortgagor, the court may order the
property sold. The farmer's proceeding in bankruptcy
for rehabilitation, resembles that of a corporation for reorganization. As to the latter it is expressly provided
that the debtor may, to some extent, be left in possession,
U. S. Code, Title 11, § 207 (c); and it is common practice to appoint as receivers one of the officials of the
corporation.
(b) It is complained that the mortgagor is not required
to pay the first instalment of rent until the end of one
year. The phraseology of the applicable provision is not
clear. Paragraph 2 provides:
"During such three years the debtor shall be permitted
to retain possession of all or any part of his property, in
the custody and under the supervision and control of the
court, provided he pays a reasonable rental semiannually
for that part of the property of which he retains possession. The first payment of such rerftal shall be made
within one year of the date of the order staying proceedings, the amount and kind of such rental to be the usual
customary rental in the community where the property is
located, based upon the rental value, net income, and
earning capacity of the property."
The clause providing that "the first payment of such
rental shall be made within one year" is obviously capable
of either of two constructions. One, that the mortgagor
may not be required by the court to pay before the close
of the year- The other, that the court may not postpone
the payment beyond one year. In view of the requirement of semi-annual rental, the latter seems to us more
reasonable. We intimate no opinion as to the validity
of this provision under the first construction. As here
construed, the clause cannot be deemed arbitrary or
unreasonable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

(c) The disposition of the rental required to be made is
said to involve denial of the mortgagee's rights. Paragraph 2 provides:
"Such rental shall be paid into court, to be used, first,
for payment of taxes and upkeep of the property, and
the remainder to be distributed among the secured and
unsecured creditors, and applied on their claims, as their
interests may appear."
It is suggested that payment of taxes and keeping the
property in repair takes the income from the mortgagee,
and that the mortgagor alone may be benefited thereby;
that if the mortgagor exercises the option to purchase the
property at its appraised value, he will secure the property free of tax liens which otherwise might have accrued
against it. But it must be assumed that the mortgagor
will not get the property for less than its actual value. The
Act provides that upon the creditor's request the property
must be reappraised, or sold at public auction; and the
mortgagee may by bidding at such sale fully protect his
interest. Non-payment of taxes may imperil the title.
Payments for upkeep are essential to the preservation of
the property. These payments prescribed by the Act
are in accordance with the common practice in foreclosure proceedings where the property is in the hands of
receivers."
Sixth. In support of the contention that the legislation
is unconstitutional, it is pointed out that the delay in the
enforcement of the mortgage under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act as amended by sub-section (s) may exceed
the term of three years; that months may be consumed in
" See Shepherd v. Pepper, 133 U. S. 626, 652; Thompson v. Phenix
Insurance Co., 136 U. S. 287, 293; Cake v. Mohun, 164 U. S. 311,
316; 1 Clark, Law and Practice of Rec3eivers (2d ed. 1929) § 670;
High, Law of Receivers (4th ed. 1910) § 643; 1 Wiltsie, Mortgage
Foreclosure (4th ed. 1927) § 616. Compare Atlantic Trust Co. v.
Chapman, 208 U. S. 360, 371.

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH.
440

Opinion of the Court.

the effort to obtain a composition or extension of the
debtor's obligations with the consent of the creditors; that
when a petition is filed praying for the relief outlined
in subsection (s) a further period of months may be
consumed in having the property appraised and putting
the debtor in the position which he must occupy before
the stay is granted; that "four months from the date that
the referee approves the appraisal" is given within which
"either party may file objections, exceptions, and take
appeals" from the appraisal; and that upon a sale of the
property under Paragraph 3:
"The debtor shall have ninety days to redeem any
property sold at such sale, by paying the amount for
which any such property was sold, together with 5 per
centum per annum interest, into court . . ."
It is pointed out, also, that the mortgage here in question is in the form of a deed of trust.1 It is claimed that
the rights to enforce payment by sale of the mortgage
property, conferred by the law of Virginia upon the
creditor under such a deed, are more peremptory than
those under the law of Kentucky discussed in the Radford case.' 2 And it is urged that the limitations here
placed upon the enforcement of the mortgage are not
merely a modification of the remedy recognized as permissible. Compare Home Building & Loan Assn. v.
Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 434.
" See FranklinPlant Farm v. Nash, 118 Va. 98, 111, 86 S. E. 836,
840; Dillard v. Serpell, 138 Va. 694, 697, 123 S. E. 343; 3 Jones, Law
of Mortgages (8th ed. rev. 1928) §§ 1742, 2276.
' See Code of Va., 1918 (Michie 1924) § 5167, as amended, Acts,
1926, c. 324, subsecs. (1)-(6), (13); In re Sherman, 12 F. Supp. 297,
298-299; compare Hogan v. Duke, 20 Gratt. 244, 256, 259; Muller's
Administrator v. Stone, 84 Va. 834, 837, 6 S. E. 223; Hudson v. Barham, 101 Va. 63, 67, 68, 43 S. E. 189. See also Ashworth v. Tramwell, 102 Va. 852, 858, 47 S. E. 1011; Peterson v. Haynes, 145 Va.
653, 661, 134 S. E. 675; Neff's Administrator v. Newman, 150 Va.
203, 210, 142 S. E. 389.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

But the question here involved is not one of state action under the police power alleged to violate the contract
clause. The power here exerted by Congress is the broad
power "To establish . . . uniform Laws on the subject
of Bankruptcies throughout the United States." The
question which the objections raise is not whether the
Act does more than modify remedial rights. It is whether
the legislation modifies the secured creditor's rights,
remedial or substantive, to such an extent as to deny the
due process of law guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment.
A court of bankruptcy may affect the interests of lien
holders in many.ways. To carry out the purposes of the
Bankruptcy Act, it may direct that all liens upon property forming part of a bankrupt's estate be marshalled;
or that the property be sold free of encumbrances and the
rights of all lien holders be transferred to the proceeds
of the sale. Van Hufiel v. Harkelrode,284 U. S. 225, 227.
Despite the peremptory terms of a pledge, it may enjoin
sale of the collateral, if it finds that the sale would hinder
or delay preparation or consummation of a plan of reorganization. Continental Illinois National Bank &
Trust Co. v. Chicago, 1?. 1. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648,
680-681. It may enjoin like action by a mortgagee
which would defeat the purpose of subsection (s) to effect
rehabilitation of the farmer mortgagor. For the reasons
stated, we are of opinion that the provisions of subsection (s) make no unreasonable modification of the mortgagee's rights; and hence are valid.
Reversed.

