STOCKHOLDERS v. STERLING.
Syllabus.

STOCKHOLDERS OF THE PEOPLES BANKING
CO. v. STERLING, RECEIVER.*
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND.

No. 298.

Argued January 6, 7, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

The Maryland Constitution, (1867) Art. III, § 39, forbids the chartering of banks except upon condition that the stockholders shall be
liable to the amount of their respective shares for the debts of
the bank; and an early statute, couched in the constitutional
language, was construed by the state courts as conferring upon
the creditor of an insolvent bank a supplementary right of action,
ex contractu, against its stockholders, but only those stockholders
who were such when his credit was contracted,-a liability which
followed the stockholder after he had ceased to be such, and
which was subjectto any right of set-off or counterclaim available
to the stockholder against the bank at the time of the creditor's
suit. A later enactment abolished this method and made the
stockholders' liability an asset of the corporation for the benefit
ratably of all the depositors and creditors, and enforcible only
against stockholders who were such at the time of the'bank's
liquidation, and by proceedings by a receiver, assignee or trustee
of the corporation acting under the orders of a court. Held that
the later statute did not infringe the rights of stockholders under
the contract clause of the Federal Constitution, because:
(a) The Maryland constitutional provision fixed the substantive
stockholder liability; the statutes merely afforded remedies for its
enforcement. Pp. 178, 181.
(b) The effect upon contracts, wrought by change in judicial
construction of antecedent state laws or constitutional provisions,
is not within the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
P. 182.
(c) Stockholders who became such while the first statute was
in force were chargeable with notice that a new remedy might be
adopted if the one first chosen was inadequate; and this independently of a power of alteration or repeal reserved in the bank's
charter. P. 181.
* Together with No. 299, Stockholders of the Hagerstoum Bank &

Trust Co. v. Sterling, Receiver. Appeal from the Court of Appeals
of Maryland.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

(d) When a corporate charter is subject to the condition that it
inay be altered or repealed by the Legislature, there is no unconstitutional change of the obligation of a contract by a subsequent enlargement of the liability of stockholders as to debts afterwards contracted, though the shares so affected were acquired
before the charter was so amended. P. 183.
(el The Maryland constitutional liability of stockholders in
banks is not a maximum, but a minimum, and the Legislature
does not transcend the bounds of legislative power by increasing
it, as to existing stockholders, under its reserved power to alter
or hmend, charters. P. 183.
Whether the legislative changes involved in this case would have
gone too far if they had been made applicable to debts existing
at date of enactment is not decided. See Smith v. Sherman, 1
BlackD587, 594. The burden of proving that such debts existed
was on the appellants, and in this they failed.
169 Md. 678, 182 Atl. 558; 169 Md. 696, 182 Atl. 566, affirmed.
APPEALS, in two cases, from decrees reversing a lower
court and sustaining special assessments against protesting
stockholders, in two proceedings to liquidate banks.

Messrs. Charles F. Wagaman and John Wagaman, with
whom Messrs. D. Angle Wolfinger, Martin V. B. Bostetter, C. Walter Baker, and Daniel W. Doub were on the

brief, for appellants.
Mr. William H. Bovey, with whom Mr. Elias B. Hartle
'was on the brief, for appellee in No. 298.

Mr. Robert H. McCauley, with whom Mr. J. Lloyd
Harshman was on the brief, for appellee in No. 299.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Stockholders in banking corporations, charged with personal liability, contend that a statute of Maryland defining
the form- of liability and its measure offends against the
Constitution of the United States by impairing the obligation of contracts previously made.

STOCKHOLDERS v. STERLING.
175

Opinion of the Court.

In No. 298, the liability in controversy is that of stockholders in the Peoples Banking Company of Smithsburg,
which was incorporated under the laws of Maryland, January 24, 1910, and closed its doors June 29, 1931. The'
Bank Commissioner of the state, after being appointed
receiver, filed a petition with a Circuit Court in Maryland
for an order assessing the stockholders of record in an
amount equal to 10070If the par value of their shares.
An order was made accordingly in conformity with the
provisions of Acts, 1910, Chapter 219 (Code of Maryland,
Article II, § 72). Thereafter the appellants filed petitions for the revocation of the order, alleging the invalidity
of the statute imposing liability, and alleging also that
those of them who had paid the assessments before joining
in the petitions had done so by mistake. At the date of:
liquidation appellants were the holders of over 2000
shares of stock. Thirteen appellants had become the
holders of a relatively small portion of these shares (345),
before the enactment of the applicable statute. Nearly
all the appellants were depositors in the insolvent bank
and were thus creditors as well as stockholders. The Circuit Court for Washington County, Maryland, granted
the petitions, holding the statute void as an impairment
of existing contracts. The Court of Appeals reversed, and
adjudged the statute valid. Ghingher v. Bachtell, 169
Md. 678; 182 Atl. 558. The case is here upon appeal.
Judicial Code, § 237; 28 U. S. C. L,344.
In No. 299, the liability in controversy is that of
stockholders in the Hagerstown Bank and Trust Company, which was incorporated in 1902. The trust company was closed in February, 1933, and in January, 1935,
an order was made for the assessment of all the stockholders to the extent of 100% of the par value of their
shares, provided that no good cause was shown to the
contrary within a stated time. The appellants in this
case, unlike some of the appellants in No. 298, acquired
130607°-37-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

their shares after the enactment of the 1910 statute.
Even so, they appeared within the time limit in opposition to the assessment, asserting that the statute was
invalid as to them. The Circuit Court of Washintgon
County sustained their opposition, and the Court of Appeals reversed. Ghingher v. Kausler, 169 Md. 696; 182
Atl. 566. In this case also the controversy is here upon
appeal.
The questions in the two cases will be considered
separately.
First: The case of the Peoples Banking Company of
Smithsburg.
The Constitution of Maryland provides that "the General Assembly shall grant no charter for Banking purposes . . . except upon the condition that the Stockholders shall be liable to the amount of their respective
share or shares of stock in such Banking Institution, for
all its debts and liabilities upon note, bill or otherwise."
Maryland Constitution, 1867, Article III, § 39. This
provision was effective without more to impose a substantive liability upon stockholders in banks. Ghingher
v. Bachtell, supra, pp. 688, 690. On the other hand, it
did not take from the legislature the power to implement
the liability with statutory remedies, nor in the absence
of such statutes did it take that power from the courts.
Ghingherv. Bachtell, supra. In January, 1910, when the
Smithsburg bank was organized, the only applicable
statute was Chapter 206 of the Acts of 1870. The Act
shows by its title that it is one "to create State Banking
Institutions to enable the several Banks in this StateState and National-to avail of the provisions thereof."
It provides (§ 11) that "the continuance of the said
several corporations shall be on the condition that the
stockholders and directors of each of said corporations
shall be liable to the amount of their respective share or
shares of stock in such corporation, for all its debts and

STOCKHCdLDERS v. STERLING;
175

Opinion of the Court.

liabilities upon note, bill or otherwise, and upon this further condition, that this Act and every part of it may
be altered from time to time, or repealed by the Legislature." The Maryland courts have held in a series of
decisions that the liability thus recognized was not enforcible by the bank itself in the event of its insolvency,
or by a liquidator or receiver suing in its behalf. Ghingher
v. Bachtell, supra; Miners Bank v. Snyder, 100 Md. 57,
67; 59 Atl. 707; Colton v. Mayer, 90 Md. 711, 714; 45
Atl. 874. The right of action was no part of the assets
of the insolvent corporation. The meaning of the statute
was thought to be that every creditor of the corporation
in assuming that relation acquired for his individual use,
and not as a class representative, a supplemental right
of action against the holders of the shares. To rationalize
this right of action, i 'was said to rest upon an implied
contract between the creditor on the one side and on the
other the holders of the shares at the creation of the debt.
Ghingherv. Bachtell, supra.. Contract being the basis of
the statutory remedy, the courts deduced the consequence
that the liability did not extend to stockholders who became such after the debt was in existence. For the same
reason any stockholder was free to reduce his liability
by the use of set-offs or counterclaims available at the
time of suit against the primary obligor. Ghingher v.
Bachtell, supra, p.-694; Cahill v. Original Big Gun Assn.,
94 Md. 353; 50 Atl. 1044.
In June, 1910, less than five months after the incorporation of this bank, a statute was enacted, abrogating
the remedy under the then existing statute and substituting another. Acts of 1910, c. 219; Maryland Code,
Article II, § 72 "Stockholders of every bank and trust
company shall be held individually responsible, equally
and ratably, and not one for another, for all contracts,
debts and engagements of every such corporation, to the
extent of the amount of their stock therein, at the par

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

value thereof, in addition to the amount invested in
such stock . . . and the liability of such stockholders
shall be an asset of the corporation for the benefit ratably
of all the depositors and creditors of any such corporation, if necessary to pay the debts of such corporation,
and shall be enforceable only by appropriate proceedings
by- a receiver, assignee or trustee of such corporation
acting under the orders of a court of competent jurisdiction." A like remedy had previously been created
against stockholders in trust companies. Acts of 1904,
c. 101; Acts of 1908, c. 153. Through these amendatory
acts, the cause of action formerly enforcible by the
creditors separately, each suing for himself, became enforcible by the receiver as the representative of all.
As a consequence of the new procedure, the assessment
was to be laid upon all the holders of shares at the time
of liquidation without reference to their relation to the
bank at the creation of the debts, though stockholders
dropping out sooner might escape a liability which under
the earlier law would have clung to them indefinitely.
Moreover, offsets and counterclaims were no longer to
be available to reduce the several assessments and thus
establish inequality. Stockholders when sued by the
receiver would contribute to the fund ratably, and then
prove their claims against the bank in the same way as
other creditors. Such in outline is the effect of the
statutory changes as the highest court of Maryland has
defined them in this very case.
Do changes of that order impair the obligation of a
contract between the corporation and the stockholders
in contravention of the provisions of the Constitution of
the United States?
The answer must be "no," and this for two reasons,
,first, because the changes are directed to the implementing remedies rather than the substantive liability, and
second, because a change of substantive liability was

STOCKHOLDERS v. STERLING.
175

Opinion of the Court.

made permissible by the reservation of a power of altera-'
tion or repeal.
(1) The obligation laid upon the shareholders by the
Maryland Constitution, though susceptible of legislative
and judicial regulation in respect of the mode of its enforcement, was a substantive liability to which every
stockholder subjected himself upon the acquisition of his
stock. The legislature did not exhaust the measure of
that constitutional liability by the creation of a par-ticular remedial device. The remedy adopted was interpreted judicially as having in view a suit by a creditor
against the particular group of stockholders who had
undertaken, by implication to answer for his debt. This
does not mean that a different form of remedy, for ex'ample a suit by a receiver, would have been a departure
from the Constitution, if the statute had prescribed that
method of enforcement. The broad but indefinite words
of the constitutional command gave permission to the
legislature to establish any. remedies reasonably appropriate to the general end in view. Cf. Whitman v.
Oxford National Bank, 176 U. S. 559, 562; Bernheimer
v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, 529. So, the broad but indefinite words of the legislation first adopted, the Act of
1870, gave freedom to the courts to develop through the
process of construction a cause of action enforcible at
the instance of a creditor without asserting in so doing
that a different cause of action, enforcible through a
receiver, would have been an inappropriate implement
of the constitutional liability, in the event that the legislature or the courts had chosen to adopt it. Stockholders
who became such while the first- statute was in force
were chargeable with notice that a new remedy might be
adopted if the, one first. chosen was inadequate. They
would have been chargeable with, such notice though
nothing had been said. They were chargeable, as it
happens, by the wording of the statute', the charter being

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

granted upon the condition that the Act or any part of
it might be altered or repealed.
The remedy first established was found to be unworkable. Ghingher v. Bachtell, supra, at p. 692; Murphy v.
Wheatley, 102 Md. 501, 515; 63 Atl. 62. Still acting
within the limits of the constitutional command, the
legislature of Maryland announced another remedy, less
unwieldy and confusing. In the view of the state court,
the substantive liability as the Constitution had. created
it was the same under the new procedure as it had been
from the beginning. Ghingher v. Bachtell, supra. The
court was far from holding that the statute had enlarged
it. What had happened was merely this, that another
remedy had been established to implement a liability
created long ago. Cf. Pittsburgh Steel Co. v. Baltimore
Equitable Society, 226 U. S. 455; Hill v. Merchants'
Mutual Ins. Co., 134 U. S. 515; Fourth National Bank
v. Francklyn, 120 U. S. 747; 755; Shriver v. Woodbine
Savings Bank, 285 U. S. 467, 474, 479. We cannot see
in this an attempt to lay upon the stockholders by force
of later legislation a new and different burden from that
accepted at the outset. Nor would it help the appellants
anything to assume in their behalf that the Constitution of
the State has been given a new meaning, if the new meaning is not due to the compulsion of a statute. Change by
judicial construction of antecedent legislation does not
impair a contract, at least in the forbidden sense, if it be
granted arguendo that such a change can be discovered.
Tidal Oil Co. v. Flanagan, 263 U. S. 444, 450; Fleming
v. Fleming, 264 U. S. 29, 31; Brinkerhoff-Faris Co. v.
Hill, 281 U. S. 673, 680; Great Northern Ry. Co. v.
Sunburst Oil & Refining Co., 287 U. S. 358, 364. The
new meaning, if there is any, is not ascribed to the Constitution because a later statute has said it must be done.
The new meaning is the product of the independent judg-

STOCKHOLDERS v. STERLING.
175

Opinion of the Court.

ment of a court. So the state court has told us, and the
good faith of its declaration is not successfully impeached.
Broad River Power Co. v. South Carolina,281 U. S.537,
540. To changes thus wrought the Constitution of the
United States does not offer an impediment.
(2) The result would not be different if the effect of
the statutory amendments were to be viewed as an enlargement of the substantive liability for debts afterwards contracted, the enlargement being applicable to
stockholders without exception, present as well as future.
The charter was accepted subject to the condition that
the personal liability then prescribed by statute should
be subject thereafter to repeal or alteration. This court
has held that when such a condition attaches to a charter, there is no unconstitutional change of the obligation
of a contract by a subsequent enlargement of. the liability of stockholders as to- debts afterwards contracted,
though the shares so affected were acquired before the
change was made. Sherman v. Smith, 1 Black 587,
affirming 21 N. Y. 9; Looker v. Maynard, 179-U. S.46,
53; cf. McGowan v. McDonald, 111 Cal. 57. 66: 43 Pac.
418; Perkins v. Coffin, 84 Conn. 275, 295; 79 Atl. 1070;
Pate v. Bank of Newton, 116 Miss. 666, 68b; 77 So. 601.
Stockholders who subscribe to stock subject to such a
condition assume the risk that their relation to the
corporation may be altered to their prejudice. Nor is
their position any stronger because the new liability is
heavier (if so it be assumed to be) than that imposed
upon them directly by the Constitution of the State.
The constitutional liability is not a maximum, but a
minimum, and the legislature does not transcend the
bounds of legislative power by increasing it thereafter.
Murphy v. Wheatley, supra, pp. 514, 515, 516; Davis v.
Moore, 130 Ark. 128, 135; 197 S.W. 295; Parker v. Caro-.
lina Savings Bank, 53 S. C. 583, 592; 31 S. E. 673;
Duke v. Force, 120 Wash. 599, 606; 208 Pac. 67.

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Sherman v. Smith, supra, left unanswered an inquiry
(1 Black at p. 594) whether the amendment would have
gone too far if it had been made applicable to debts
existing at the date of its enactment as well as to existing
stockholders. We may leave the question open now.
Appellants have failed to show that any debts of the
corporation to be enforced in these proceedings were
debts existing on June 1, 1910, when the present statute
became law, still less that the subtraction of those debts
would have made the assessment lower than the par
value of the shares. The extent of the deficiency is
persuasive, in the absence of evidence to the contrary,
that the assessment must have been the same if the old
debts had been disregarded. Such of them as exist must
have been contracted in the brief interval between January 24, 1910 and June 1 following. At all events, the
burden was on the appellants to show themselves
,harmed through the operation of the statute challenged
as unlawful. Premier-PabstSales Co. v. Grosscup, 298
U. S. 226, 227; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160,
161. This thgy have not done. As to debts to be contracted afterwards, if not also as to others, the statute
is impregnable.
What., has been written is not at war with anything
decided or even intimated in Coombes v. Getz, 285 U. S.
434, 441, 442, much relied on by appellants. There creditors were complaining of the destruction of a cause of
action whereby they were left without a remedy. Here
the record does not tell us that any creditors who were
such when the first statute was repealed have claims still
outstanding for debts contracted then. In the usual
course of business deposits made so long ago must almost certainly have been paid through the application
of the principle that the first drawings out are to be
attributed to the first payments in. Carson v. Federal
Reserve Bank, 254 N. Y:. 218, 232; 172 N. E. 475. At

MORLEY CO. v. MD. CASUALTY CO.
175

Syllabus.

any rate, there is nothing to the contrary in the pages
of this record. The fact is thus apparent that the contract rights of creditors are not involved at all. Whatever complaint is heard as to the substitution of a new
remedy in 1910 is not from creditors of that date, unable to collect their debts. The complaint comes to us
from stockholders, who took their stock with notice
that the remedies against them might be changed from
time to time.*
Second: The case of the Hagerstown Bank and Trust
Company.
As already pointed out, all the complaining stockholders in this company acquired their shares after the
adoption of the Act of 1910, with its new remedial devices. What has been said as to the stockholders in the
Peoples Banking Company of Smithsburg applies with
redoubled force to the stockholders in the trust company.
The decree in each case should be
Affirmed.

MORLEY CONSTRUCTION CO.

ET AL.

v. MARY-

LAND CASUALTY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 325.

Argued January 8, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. A wrongful purpose is.
not an element of a cause of action for
exoneration. P. 189.
"The authority of a state under the so-called reserved power is
wide; but it is not unlimited. The corporate charter may be repealed or amended, and, within limits not now necessary to define,
the interrelations of state, corporation and stockholders may be
changed; but neither vested property rights nor the obligation of
contracts of third persons may be destroyed or impaired." Coombe..
v. Getz, supra, pp. 441, 442.

