OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

300 U. S.

the decision of the federal question. See Patterson v.
Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 607; Villa v. Van Schaick, 299
U. S. 152. We have afforded an opportunity for appropriate presentation of the question by an amendment of
the record as the state court might be advised. Villa v.
Van Schaick, supra. We think that a similar opportunity should be accorded here in order that uncertainty
may be removed and that the precise nature of the federal question, how it was raised and the grounds of its
disposition, may be definitely set forth, so that we may be
able to decide whether a substantial question within our
-jurisdiction has necessarily been determined.
For that purpose the judgment is vacated and the
cause is remanded for further proceedings.
Judgment vacated.

O'CONNOR

ET AL. v. MILLS ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 442.

Submitted January 12, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. Paragraph (k) of § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act makes A § 24
and 25 of the Act applicable to appeals from orders and judgments entered in reorganization proceedings under § 77B. P. 27.
2. A judgment of the District Court disapproving and dismissing
a petition for reorganization of a corporation under § 77B of
the Bankruptcy Act is in the same category, for the purposes
of appeal, as a judgment refusing to adjudge the defendant a
bankrupt, and under § 25 (a), cl.(1) is appealable as of right to
the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 27.
85 F. (2d) 1017, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 299

U. S.536, to review an order dismissing

an appeal.

Mr. J. A. Tellier submitted for petitioners.
Mr. J. W. House submitted for respondents.

O'CONNOR' v. MILLS.
26

Opinion of the Court.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioners filed a creditors' petition under § 77B of
the Bankruptcy Act proposing the reorganization of
White & Black Rivers Bridge Company, a corporation.
The debtor answered, seeking approval of the petition.
Members of a bondholders' protective committee, holding bonds issued by the corporation, filed a response to
the petition, alleging that it was.not filed in good faith
and asking that it be disapproved and dismissed. Petitioners replied. After allowing thirty days to afford an
opportunity to ascertain the possibility of the submission
of a feasible plan of reorganization, the District Court,
upon hearing, dismissed the petition as insufficient to
meet the requirements of § 77B.
The District Court allowed an appeal upon the giving
of a bond and the appeal was perfected accordingly. The
appellees moved to dismiss the appeal upon the ground
that it was unauthorized by law as it had not been allowed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. That court
granted the motion and the appeal was dismissed. We
issued a writ of certiorari. November 16, 1936.
Paragraph (k) of § 77B provides that the other sections of the Bankruptcy Act shall apply to proceedings
under § 77B, unless inconsistent with it, and that "the
date of the order approving the petition or answer under
this section shall be taken to be the date of adjudication,
and such order shall have the same consequences and
effect as an order of adjudication." The effect of this
provision is to make §§ 24 and 25 of the Bankruptcy Act
applicable to appeals from orders and judgments entered
in proceedings under § 77B.
Section 25 (a) provides that appeals, as in equity
cases, may be taken in bankruptcy proceedings from
the courts of bankruptcy to the circuit courts of appeals
in the cases enumerated, the first of which is-"from a
judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

a bankrupt." While paragraph (k) refers to "the order
approving the petition or answer" under § 77B, which
is to have "the same consequences and effect as an order
of adjudication," we think that to carry out the manifest intent of the statute, an order disapproving the petition or answer under § 77B should have the same
effect for the purpose of appeal as an order refusing adjudication. Interpreting the statute in that sense, we
said in Meyer v. Kenmore Hotel Co., 297 U. S. 160, 163,
164:
"The appeal provisions of §§ 24 and 25 of the Bankruptcy Act are thus made applicable to orders entered
in the course of a reorganization proceeding, and an order
approving or disapproving a petition for reorganization
is made the equivalent, at least for purposes of an appeal
under § 25 (a), of a judgment adjudging or refusing to
adjudge the defendant a bankrupt. By § 24 (a) and
(b) appeals in 'proceedings' in bankruptcy, as distinguished from appeals in 'controversies arising in bankruptcy,' may be taken only on leave granted in the discretion of the appellate court, except that in the cases
enumerated in § 25 (a), including, in.clause (1), 'a judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant a
bankrupt,' an appeal may be taken as of right."
The instant case is not one where the petition had
been approved and the appeal was from a subseque nt
order denying an application to dismiss the proceeding
or from an order confirming or refusing to confirm a plan
of reorganization. See Meyer v. Kenmore Hotel Co.,
supra, pp. 161, 162, 164, 166; Humphrey v. Bankers
Mortgage Co., 79 F. (2d) 345, 349, 350. The appeal is
from a judgment which disapproved and dismissed the
petition and should be treated as in the same category
as an appeal from a judgment refusing to adjudicate the
defendant a bankrupt and hence as appealable under

WAYNE COUNTY v. GREAT LAKES CORP.
26

29

Opinion of the Court.

§ 25 (a). The Circuit Court of Appeals should have
entertained the appeal and disposed of it upon the
merits.
The order of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

WAYNE COUNTY BOARD OF REVIEW

ET AL. V.

GREAT LAKES STEEL CORP.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 253.

Argued January 12, 13, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

A statute of Michigan establishing a county board of review of
tax assessments, applicable only to counties having a population
in excess of 500,000, violates § 30 of Art. V of the Michigan constitution, which forbids the passing of a local or special Act in
any case where a general Act can be made applicable.
12 F. Supp. 55, affirmed.

Messrs. Albert E. Champney and Oscar A. Kaufman,
with whom Mr. Jason L. Honigman was on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. Prewitt Semmes, with whom Mr. Elmer R. Milburn was on the brief, for appellee.
PER CURIAM.

Appellee brought this suit to restrain the enforcement,
in relation to an assessment upon its property, of a
statute of Michigan establishing a county board of review. Act No. 33, Public Acts of Michigan, First Extra
Session, 1934.
The Act established a county board of review of assessments for counties having a population in excess of

