MATOS v. ALONSO HERMANOS.
Statement of the Case.

414

respecting the power of a federal court to protect its
jurisdiction and decrees.!
Decree affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE CARDozo are of
opinion that the decree should be reversed for the reasons
stated by Sibley, J., in the court below.
did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

MATOS v. ALONSO HERMANOS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 227.

Argued March 2, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

Upon review of a judgment of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, in
a case controlled by the construction and application of local laws
of redhibition and prescription, the Circuit Court of Appeals should

follow the decision unless there be a sense of clear error committed.
P. 432.

81 F. (2d) 930, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 527, to review a judgment reversing a judgment of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico,
which had reversed a judgment of the trial court and
directed, dismissal of the complaint, in an action by a
purchaser of cattle to have the sale annulled and to
recover the purchase money.

'French v. Hay, 22 Wall. 250; Root v. Woolworth, supra, p. 411;
Julian v. Central Trust Co., 193 U. S. 93, 112; Madisonville Traction

Co. v. Saint Bernard Mining Co., 196 U. S. 239, 245; Looney v. Eastern Texas R. Co., 247 U. S. 214, 221; Wells Fargo & Co. v. Taylor,
254 U. S. 175, 183.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Mr. Nelson Gammans argued the cause, and Messrs.
,Gabriel I. Lewis, Oscar B. Frazer, and Heriberto Torres
Sola filed a brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Francis H. 'Dexter for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Two sections of the Revised Civil Code of Puerto Rico
follow:
"1397. Animals and cattle suffering from contagious diseases shall not be the object of a contract of sale. Any
.contract made with regard to the same shall be void. A
contract of sale of cattle and animals shall also be void,
when the use or service for which they are acquired being
stated, they are found to be useless therefor."
"1399. The redhibitory action, based on the vices or
defects of animals, must be instituted within forty days,
counted from their delivery to the vendee, unless, by
reason of the customs in each locality, longer or shorter
periods are established. This action in the sale of animals
may only be enforced with regard to the vices and defects
of the same, determined by law or by local customs."
Several sections of the Island's Penal Code interdict
sale or possession of animals suffering from a contagious
disease.
A complaint filed by respondents, Alonso Hermanos,
et al., in the District Court of San Juan, December 12,
1929, alleged that they purchased March 1, 1929, from
petitioner, Jose Matos, a herd of cattle-122 head-for
the lump sum of $18,000.00; although apparently in good
condition the cattle were suffering from tuberculosis, a
contagious disease; prior to December 6th forty-three had
died, twenty-nine were condemned and destroyed by the
Health Department. They further declared readiness to

MATOS v. ALONSO HERMANOS.
429

Opinion of the Court.

return all surviving cattle and prayed that the sale be
declared null and void, in accordance with ยง 1397 of the
Civil Code, also for judgment for the purchase price.
A demurrer invoking the limitation of forty days upon
redhibitory actions, prescribed by Code ยง 1399, was overruled. An answer followed. This admitted execution of
the contract, receipt of the consideration, death and condemnation of the cattle as alleged. But it affirmed that
tuberculosis was contracted after the sale through improper care; also renewed the claim of prescription.
The trial court found the facts shown by the evidence;
concluded the questioned contract was illegal and void,
that the action was not subject to the prescription of forty
days; and ordered return of the entire purchase price.
Upon appeal the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico ruled
the sale contract was not void but voidable at the purchaser's election; its legal effect and the remedy for violation were within the Code provisions relating to redhibitory contracts; the limitation of forty days applied; "that
Section 1397 does not exclude the transaction made in
this case from the field of warranties." Also, the contract
for the purchase of the herd was "individual" or "distributive"-not unitary; as to the'dead cows the right to recover the purchase price was prescribed; as to those which
survived no right of fecovery ever existed. It accordingly reversed the judgment of the District Court and
directed dismissal of the complaint.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held the contract of sale
illegal-non-existent-as to cows which had died or were
condemned; as to them the action was not redhibitory;
the prescription of forty days had no application; and it
reversed the questioned judgment. With respect to the
surviving cows it adopted the interpretation of ยง 1397
approved by the Supreme Court. It said: "To sum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

marize: In the trial court the plaintiffs put their claim
on the herd basis; they endeavored to rescind the entire
transaction and get back the full consideration which had
been paid; and they were held entitled to do so. On
appeal the Supreme Court held that the sale could not be
given this unitary character, but must be considered with
respect to the individual animals,-and that view stands.
In its decision that, as to the tuberculous cattle, a contract
was entered into and the plaintiffs' rights were of redhibitory character and subject to the limitation of section
1399, the Supreme Court fell into error."
Accordingly the judgment of the Supreme Court was
reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court
with instructions to permit an amendment to the complaint. A dissenting opinion approved the Supreme
.Court's construction of the Code, also its judgment.
The matter is here by certiorari. Manifestly the solution of the controversy must turn upon the meaning and
effect of the above quoted sections of the Civil Codelocal law of Puerto Rico.
Considering the argument here, the divergent views
below, the authorities cited, and "recognizing the deference 'due to the understanding of local courts upon matters of purely local concern," it becomes impossible for us
to entertain "a sense of clear error committed" by the
Supreme Court. Following the view so often approved,
we think the Circuit Court of Appeals should have accepted and affirmed the ruling there announced after
much consideration. Nadal v. May, 233 U. S. 447,-454;
De Villanueva v. Villanueva, 239 U. S. 293, 299; Diaz v.
Gonzalez, 261 U. S. 102, 105.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must
be reversed; the judgment of the Supreme Court is
affirmed.
Rever8ed.

