OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Counsel for Parties.

KNOX NATIONAL FARM LOAN ASSN.

300 U. S.
FT AL. v.

PHILLIPS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO.

No. 389.

Argued January 14, 15, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. A judgment of a state court against an insolvent association for
a sum of money is final, although accompanied by provisions
requiring the debtor to turn over all of its property to a receiver
for liquidation of its business and payment of the debt. P. 197.
2. Under the Federal Farm Loan Act, a national farm loan association cannot be required to retire, and repay the par value of, shares
subscribed for and pledged with it by a member in connection
with the procurement of a loan from a federal land bank, while
the bank refuses to retire, and make re-payment for, the corresponding shares of bank stock subscribed for by the association
in that connection and pledged with the bank. P. 198.
3. A shareholder of a farm loan association, subject by statute to
an extra personal liability for its debts, is not entitled to have his
shares retired and his subscription payment repaid when the
association is insolvent and corresponding subscriptions to the
stock of the federal land bank that made the loan have not
been canceled and refunded. P. 201.
4. A receivership for the purpose of satisfying a judgment, falls with
the judgment. P. 202.
5. A national farm loan association is an instrumentality of the
Federal Government; the time and manner of its liquidation are
governed by the federal statute; and jurisdiction does not reside
in the tribunals of a State to wind up the business of this governmental agency either by a receivership or otherwise. P. 202.
54 Oh. App. 334, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 533, to review the affirmance of
a decree against the National Farm Loan Association for
the par value of certain of its shares, accompanied by provisions for placing the Association in the hands of a
receiver for the liquidation of its business.

Mr. Peyton R. Evans, with whom Messrs. Roger D.
Branigin, Gerald E. Lyons, and John M. Rankin, and
Miss May T. Bigelow were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. William E. Richardson, with whom Mr. Harvey B.
Cox was on the brief, for respondent.

KNOX LOAN ASSN. v. PHILLIPS.
194

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CRDozo delivered the opinion of the Court.
The controversy in this case makes it necessary to determine the remedies available to a shareholder in an
insolvent farm loan association upon the refusal of a
demand for the retirement of his shares.
Respondent is the owner of a farm in Knox County,
Ohio. His vendors were members of the Knox National
Farm Loan Association, a co6perative membership corporation chartered under federal law. Federal Farm
Loan Act, July 7, 1916, c. 245, § 7, 39 Stat. 365; 12
U. S. C. § 711. Through that association they procured
a loan from the Federal Land Bank of Louisville, giving a
mortgage as security. Part of the proceeds of the loan
(i. e., 5% thereof) they used for the purchase of stock
in the co5perative association, there beng a requirement
of the statute that "any person desiring to borrow on
farm land mortgage through a national farm loan association shall make application for membership and shall
subscribe for shares of stock in such farm loan association to an amount equal to 5 per centum of the face of
the desired loan, said subscription to be paid in cash upon
the granting of the loan." Federal Farm Loan Act, § 8;
12 U. S. C. § 733; cf. § 9; 12 U. S.C. 745. The statutory
plan has already been expounded in opinions of this
court. Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust Co., 255 U. S.
180, 203; Federal Land Bank v. Gaines, 290 U. S. 247;
Federal Land Bank v. Priddy, 295 U. S. 229.
Upon the purchase of the farm by respondent in October, 1927, he assumed the payment of the mortgage
debt, succeeding at the same time to the interests of
his vendors in the stock of the association and to the
attendant liabilities. The shares were of the par value
of $265. They had been pledged with the association,
in accordance with the requirements of the statute (§ 8;
12 U. S. C. § 733) as security for the loan. The association on its part had subscribed for an equal amount
of the shares of the federal land bank, the lender of fhe

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

money, leaving the shares so subscribed for as a pledge
for the security of the lender. This too was a procedure
called for by the statute. Section 7; 12 U. S. C. § 721.
From time to time thereafter there were payments on
account with the result that the loan had been reduced
by March, 1933, to $2122.46, at which time respondent
made an effort to clear the farm of the mortgage and to
put an end also to his liability as shareholder. To that
end he paid the association $1857.46 to be transmitted to
the bank, insisting that the deficiency ($265) be satisfled through the retirement of the shares. The bank
accepted the payment as one upon account, but refused
to 'discharge the mortgage without payment of the balance. At that time, by concession, the association was
insolvent. Its capital was impaired; it was indebted to
the bank upon other mortgage loans, being liable as
endorser or otherwise when it borrows for a member
(Federal Land IBank v. Gaines, supra); it had no moneys
in its treasury wherewith the shares could be retired.
The courts took up the controversy. Respondent
joined the bank and the association as defendants in a
suit in the Court of Common Pleas of Knox County,
Ohio. He prayed for judgment against the bank that
the mortgage be held to have been cancelled and extinguished and for judgment against the association that
the shares of stock be paid off and retired, and that the
business of the association be wound up and liquidated.
For answer, the bank and the association took the ground
that the partial payment made was insufficient to discharge the mortgage; that there could be no retirement
of the shares while the association was insolvent-; that
the state court was without jurisdiction to liquidate the
business of the association, an instrumentality of the
federal government, and that jurisdiction in that behalf
resided in the federal government exclusively.
Two decrees were rendered by the Court of Common
Pleas. The first, filed October 7, 1935, provides that the

KNOX LOAN ASSN. v. PHILLIPS.
194

Opinion of the Court.

mortgage lien shall.be canceled by the bank upon tender
by the plaintiff of $265 in addition to the payment previously made, the tender to be kept good by payment
into court. The second, filed November 18, 1935, directs
the farm loan association to retire the respondent's
shares, and gives him judgment against the association
for the par value thereof. It appearing that the association was unable to pay the judgment by reason of insolvency, a receiver was appointed to take possession of the
assets and liquidate the business, the association and its
officers being required forthwith, upon the demand of
the receiver, to surrender any property in their possession or under their control. From the decree of Novenber 18, the defendants prosecuted an appeal t6 the Ohio
Court of Appeals, which affirmed with an opinion. A
petition for review by the Supreme Court of the state
was submitted and denied. We granted certiorari to set
at rest far-reaching questions as to the meaning and
administration of an important Act of Congress.
At the outset a doubt as to our jurisdiction calls for
scrutiny and judgment. The case being here after a
decision of a state court, jurisdiction is not given us
unless the decree to be reviewed is final. Judicial Code,
§ 237; 28 U. S. C. § 344. Respondent has been adjudged
entitled to the payment of a specific sum of money, but
he is also to have a receiver who is to liquidate a business, the court reserving the right to control the conduct
of its officer and to rescind or modify its order. Does the
appointment of a receiver postpone the stage of finality
until his work is at an end?
The primary purpose of the suit was the recovery of a
judgment for the par value of the shares. Any other
relief prayed for or awarded was tributary to that recovery; it was a form of equitable execution to make collection possible. When the amount invested in the stock
was adjudged to constitute a debt, whatever followed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
,

Opinion of the Court..

300 U. S.

the decree was auxiliary and modal. The Association
and its officers were not directed to account, and to surrender what was found owing at the close of the accounting. They were directed to make delivery and to make
delivery at once. We think they were subjected to a
present obligation as immediate and absolute as if the
assets were to be wrested from them by execution directed
to the sheriff. Winthrop Iron Co. v. Meeker, 109 U. S.
180, 183; St. Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co. v. Southern Express Co., 108 U. S. 24, 28, 29; Thomson v. Dean, 7 Wall.
342; McGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio Central Ry. Co., 146
U. S. 536; Collins v. Miller, 252 U. S. 364, 371; Chase v.
Driver, 92 Fed. 780, 785; Des Moines v. Des Moines
Water Co., 230 Fed. 570, 573; Victor Talking Machine
Co. v. George, 69 F. (2d) 871, 879.
Accepting jurisdiction, we are brought to a consideration of the merits.
A national farm loan association is a co6perative enterprise. Its members must subscribe for its shares to
the extent of five per cent of the loan to be procured
in their behalf. Federal Farm Loan Act, § 8; 12 U. S. C.
§ 733. The association in its turn, upon the procurement of the loan, subscribes to stock of the land bank
to an equivalent extent. Section 7; 12 U. S. C. § 721.
With few exceptions, the only assets which a farm loan
association has or can have are the shares which it takes
in the federal land bank to counterbalance the shares
of its own stock taken by the borrower, together with
dividends distributed by the bank, and reasonable charges
for necessary expenses, not in excess of "1 per centum of
the amount of the loan applied for." Byrne v. Federal
Land Bank, 61 N. D. 265, 277; 237 N. W. 797; cf. § 11;
12 U. S. C. 761, subd. 3. To add to the protection of
the bank and other creditors, the shareholders in the
association are chargeable under the law as it stood at
the date of these transactions with personal liability up
to a designated maximum. "Shareholders of every national farm-loan association shall be held individually

KNOX LOAN ASSN. v, PHILLIPS.
194

199

Opinion of the Court.

responsible, equally and ratably, and not one for another,
for all contracts, debts, and engagements of such association to the extent of the amount of stock owned by them
at the par value thereof, in addition to the amount paid
in and represented by their shares." Section 9; 12
U. S. C. § 744.1 Upon evidence that an association has
failed to meet its obligations the Farm Credit Administration may declare it insolvent and appoint a receiver,
subject to the proviso that this shall not be done until
the total defaults shall amount to at least $150,000 in the
federal land bank district, unless such association shall
haize been in default for a period of two years. Section
29; 12 U. S. C. § 961. There shall be no voluntary liquidation without the consent of the supervising federal authority. Section 29; 12 U. S. C. § 965.
The background has now been indicated against which
we must view the question whether a member of an
association who has paid his loan in full may have his
shares retirdd and recover their, par value when the association is insolvent. In 8tipport of such a recovery respondent relies upon two sections of the statute. By
§ 7 (12 U. S. C. § 721) an association borrowing from a
land bank "shall subscribe for capital stock of said
land bank to the amount of 5 per centum of such
loan," the stock to be held by the bank as collateral
security. By the same section, such stock [i. e., the stock
of the land bank] shall be "paid off and retired upon
full payment of the mortgage, loan." If that is done,
"the national farm loan association shall pay off at par
and retire the cortesponding shares of its stock which
were issued when said land bank stock was issued." '
' The liability has been changed in respect of contracts, debts or
engagepent entered into after June 16, 1933, without affecting liabilities incurred before that time. Act of June 16, 1933, c. 98, § 72,
48 Stat. 271; 12 U. S. C. § 744 a.
' The following is the text of the section as embodied in § 721 of
the United States Code: "Whenever any national farm loan association shall desire to secure for any member a loan on first mortgage

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Complementary to that section is § 8 of the Act (12
U. S. C. § 733), which regulates the relation between
the association and its members. Upon applying for a
loan, the applicant "shall subscribe for shares of stock
in such farm loan association to an amount equal to 5
per centum of the face of the desired loan," the subscription at his election to be paid out of the proceeds, and the
stock to be held by the association as collateral security.
"Said capital stock shall be paid off at par and retired
upon full payment of said loan." Ibid.
These provisions for retirement, despite their apparent breadth, are not to be extended to a situation such
as the one before us here, and this for two reasons.
In the first place, § 8 of the statute, as already pointed
out, is complementary to § 7. We are to read the two
together. The association is not to retire its own shares
and repay to the subscriber the amount of his subsription until the land bank has retired the corresponding
shares of bank stock subscribed for by the association,
and has paid back to. the association the par value thereof. Only thus can the association be put in funds wherewith to make payment to its own subscribers. The record
makes it plain, however, that this indispensable condition
has never been fulfilled. The bank refuses to retire the
from the Federal land bank of its district it shall subscribe for capital
stock of said land bank to the amount of 5 per centum of such loan,
such subscription to be paid in cash upon the granting of the loan
by said land bank. Such capital stock shall be held by said land
bank as collateral security for the payment of said loan, but said
association shall be paid any dividends accruing and payable on said
capital stock while it is outstanding. Such stock may, in the discretion of the directors, and with the approval of the Farm Credit Administration, be paid off at par and retired, and it shall be so paid
off and retired upon full payment of the mortgage loan. In such
case the national farm loan association shall pay off at par and retire
the corresponding shares of its stock which were issued when said
land bank stock was issued." (12 U. S. C. § 721.)

KNOX LOAN ASSN. v. PHILLIPS.
194

Opinion of the Court.

shares of bank stock subscribed for by the association
upon the loan to the respondent, or to refund the subscriptions wholly or in part. The scheme of the statute
would be fatally disrupted if the association could be held
when the bank refused to pay.
In the second place, neither the bank nor the association is under a duty to retire stock when the association
is insolvent, and thus to give to the withdrawing member.
through the return of his subscription a preference over
others. The statute is misread if the sentences regulating withdrawal are taken out of the setting of a cobperatiie scheme and viewed in isolation. Under the law as
it stood when respondent became a member, the shareholders were subjected to a personal liability for all the
contracts, debts, and engagements of the association "to
the extent of the-amount of stock owned by tAem at the
par value thereof, in addition to the amount paid in and
represented by their shares." § 9; 12 U. S. C. 744. The
association is already in default in the payment of its
mortgage debts, and already its capital is impaired. In
such circumstances, to return to respondent the amount
paid in and represented by his shares would frustrate
the statutory mandate that the amount so paid in shall
constitute a fund for the benefit of creditors to be supplemented in case of need by personal liability for as much
more as the investment. Indeed, altogether apart from
any pledge of personal liability, the whole structure of the
association is built upon the implication of equal rights
and duties on the part of the co6perating members. To
permit a member to withdraw when the association is insolvent would be to cast upon his fellow members the responsibility for defaults for which all should answer ratably in proportion to their interests. To guard against
that inequity the statute makes it clear that shares in the
association shall not be subject to retirement until the
corresponding subscriptions to the land bank have been

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

canceled and refunded. We are not required to determine whether a member of an association will have rights
enforcible against the bank when the association has been
wound up in accordance with the federal statute. Cf.
§ 29; 12 U. S. C. § 966. No such question is before us.
Enough for present purposes .that in the existing situation, with insolvency conceded, the shares of the association are not subject to withdrawal.
The conclusion thus arrived at is in accord with well
considered opinions in North Dakota and Arkansas
where the same question was involved. Byrne v. Federal Land Bank, supra; Western Clay National Farm
Loan Assn. v. Lilly, 189 Ark. 1004; 76 S. W. (2d) 55.
It has the support of persuasive analogies in the law
of building and loan associations, which have much in
common with farm loan associations incorporated by act
of Congress. The settled rule is that the shares of building and loan associations are not subject to retirement
when the association is insolvent, and that any refund
made at such a time may be reclaimed by a receiver.
Towle v. American Bldg., L. & I. Society, 61 Fed. 446;
Sullivan v. Stucky, 86 Fed. 491, 493; Coltrane v. Blake,
113 Fed. 785; Aldrich v. Gray, 147 Fed. 453, 456; Christian's Appeal, 102 Pa. 184; Colin v. Wellford, 102 Va.
581; 46 S. E. 780; cf. Fidelity Savings & Loan Assn. v.
Burnet, 62 App. D. C. 131; 65 F. (2d) 477, 479, 481.
In holding that a judgment for the par value of the
shares is inconsistent with the federal statute and impliedly forbidden, we cut the ground away from the
auxiliary receivership, which must fall with the judgment
it was intended to enforce. To this we add, however
that a national farm loan association is an instrumentality of the federal government; that the time and manner
of liquidation are governed by the federal statute; and
that jurisdiction does not reside in the tribunals of a
state to wind up the business of this governmental agency

AMER. LIFE INS. CO. v. STEWART.
Syllabus.

194

either by a receivership or otherwise. 12 U. S. C. § 931,
961; Federal Land Bank v. Priddy, supra, pp. 231, 234;
Cook County National Bank v. United States, 107 U. S.
445, 448; Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220, 233; Jennings v.
U. S. F. & G. Co., 294 U. S. 216, 226; Brusselback v.
Chicago Joint Stock Land Bank, 69 F. (2d) 598; Partridge v. St. Louis Joint Stock Land Bank, 76 F. (2d)
237; Boyd v. Schneider, 131 Fed. 223, 227.
Whether the respondent may vote upon his stock, after
his mortgage has been paid in full, until the shares have
been redeemed, and whether he has a remedy to compel
the Farm Credit Administration to liquidate the business
promptly, are questions that have been considered in
the briefs, but that do not call for answer upon the record
now before us.
The decree should be reversed and the cause remanded
to the Court of Appeals of the State of Ohio for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
AMERICAN

LIFE

INSURANCE

SMITH STEWART
CERTIORARI

CO. v. REESE

ET AL.*

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 440.

Argued January 15, 1937.-Decided February 1, 1937.

1. Fraud in the procurement of insurance is provable as a defense
in an action at law upon the policy. P. 212.
2. A "contest," within the purview of a provision .of a life insurance policy that it shall be incontestable after a period defined, has
generally been held to mean a present contest in a court, not a

notice of repudiation or of a contest to be waged thereafter.
P. 212.
3. No action at lav having been brought on the policy, an insurer
whose attack upon the ground of fraud is endangered by the
running of the time limited by the policy for contest may sue in

equity for cancelation. P. 212.

