OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

become substantially the same,. the right to make any
contract in respect of wages will have been completely
abrogated.
A more complete discussion may be found in the
Adkins and Tipaldo cases cited supra.

DUGAS v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 340. Argued January 13, 14, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.
In a proceeding brought in the District Court by a surety company
under the Interpleader Act of May 8, 1926, to interplead the
several claimants upon a qualifying bond, the amount of the bond
was paid by the surety into the registry of the court, and two
decrees were entered, the first discharging the surety from further
liability on the bond and enjoining the several claimants from
prosecuting any suit against the surety on account of any claim
or right arising out of the bond; and a later, determining the
rights of the several claimants in the deposited fund and directing
its distribution among them on a pro rata basis. No appeal was
taken from either decree. In an earlier proceeding in a state court,
one of the claimants had obtained a judgment against the surety
under the qualifying bond, from which judgment an appeal by
the surety was pending, an appeal bond suspending execution
having been filed. He objected to being brought into the interpleader, but agreed to the second decree in it and took his share of
the distribution. Held:
1. The District Court in the interpleader suit had jurisdiction of
both the subject matter and the parties. P. 425.
2. The decrees in the interpleader suit completely terminated
the liability of the surety on the qualifying bond and fixed the
full measure of the claimant's right under that bond. :P. 425.
3. Rulings of the district court in the interpleader suit on
the objection of the claimant to being brought into the suit,
on the bearing and effect of the prior judgment and proceedings
in the state court, and on the right of the surety to be discharged
from further liability in respect of his claim, were all made in

DUGAS v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
414

Statement of the Case.

the exercise of the court's jurisdiction, were subject to challenge
and rexamination only on appeal, and became conclusive on the
claimant in the absence of an appeal. P. 425.
4. Though the payment was into the court's registry, and not
directly to the claimants, it nevertheless was a lawful and effective payment under the Interpleader Act. P. 425.
5. As the judgment in the state court was based solely on the
qualifying bond, the payment of the bond and discharge of
the surety, as effected in the interpleader suit, operated, under
recognized principles of law and equity, to extinguish the claimant's right under the judgment. P. 425.
6. In subsequently bringing suit in the state court on the
appeal bond and attempting, to realize on the prior judgment,
the claimant contravened the fair intendment of the decrees in
the interpleader suit. P. 426.
7. As the claimant's right under the state court judgment was
extinguished, he was no more entitled to realize on the judgment by suing the surety on the appeal bond than by suing the
principal. P. 428.
8. And as the surety on the appeal bond would be entitled to
reimbursement from the principal were judgment to go against
the former, the principal may be heard to complain. P. 428.
9. The District Court has jurisdiction to entertain a supplemental bill in aid of and to effectuate its prior decrees. P. 428.
10. Such a bill is ancillary and dependent, and the jurisdiction
follows that of the original suit, regardless of the citizenship of
the parties to the bill or the amount in controversy. P. 428.
11. The power of the District Court to enjoin the claimant
from further prosecution of his suit in the state court on the appeal
bond finds support in §§ 2 and 3 of the Interpleader Act, as well
as in settled adjudications respecting the power of a federal court
to protect its jurisdiction and decrees. P. 428.
82 F. (2d) 953, affirmed.
Statement by MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER.*
This case presents a controversy over the scope and
effect of the decrees of a federal district court in a suit

brought by a surety company under the Interpleader
*Opinion begins on p. 423, infra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

300 U. S.

Act of May 8, 1926,1 and over the propriety of subsequent proceedings in the same court upon a supplemental
bill brought in aid of and to effectuate that decree.
It will be helpful to state the facts with some detail.
February 12, 1930, the Lumbermen's Reciprocal Association, a Texas insurance corporation, by way of qualifying itself to engage in writing workmen's compensation
and other insurance in Louisiana, executed a bond, in
the sum of $20,000.00, conditioned for the payment of
claims lawfully arising against it by reason of insurance
so written. The bond was given conformably to a Louisiana statute,' and was executed by the American Surety
Company, a New York corporation, as surety. Later in
1930, and after writing a substantial volume of insurance in Louisiana, the Lumbermen's Reciprocal Association became embarrassed and was placed in the hands
of a receiver by a court in Texas.
April 14, 1931, in a suit brought in a Louisiana court,
Etienne Dugas, who had a claim against the Lumbermen's Reciprocal Association arising out of workmen's
compensation insurance written by it in Louisiana, recovered against the American Surety Company, as surety
on the qualifying bond, a judgment for the payment of
$20.00 per week for not more than 300 weeks commencing May 15, 1930, subject to modification as to future
payments if his disability was relieved or reduced, and
for $250.00 for medical bills, together with costs.
The American Surety Company appealed to the Court
of Appeal from that judgment, and, for the purpose of
suspending execution pending the appeal, it executed a
'Ch. 273, 44 Stat., Pt. 2, 416.

Repealed and new act substituted

January 20, 1936, c. 13, 49 Stat. 1096, but with saving clause respecting any act done or any right, accruing or accrued, in any suit or
proceeding had or commenced under the earlier act prior to its
repeal.
'Act 172, La. Laws, 1908, p. 232.

DUGAS v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
414

Statement of the Case.

bond conditioned that it should diligently prosecute its
appeal and satisfy whatever judgment might be rendered
against it if cast in the appeal. The appeal bond was
given conformably to a law of the State,' was in the sum
of $10,000.00 and was executed by the New York Casualty
Company as surety. The appeal was perfected and the
record duly filed in the Court of Appeal, but nothing further was done therein for reasons which soon will appear.
Many other claims arising out of insurance written in
Louisiana by the Lumbermen's Reciprocal Association
were asserted under the qualifying bond. In the aggregate these claims were far in excess of the amount of the
bond.
June 6, 1931, desiring to avail itself of the provisions of
the Interpleader Act of May 8, 1926, the American Surety
Company, with the court's leave, paid into the registry
of the federal district court at New Orleans, Louisiana,
the sum of $20,000.00, being the full amount of the qualifying bond, and thereupon filed in that court a duly verified bill of interpleader in which it set forth the several
matters here recited, including the proceedings, judgment
and appeal in Dugas' suit on the qualifying bond; stated
the names and places of residence of the several claimants
under that bond, so far as they were known to it; and
further alleged"This Court has jurisdiction because this is a bill of
interpleader in equity brought by a surety company
against bona fide adverse claimants against its bond of
February 12, 1930, two or more of whom are citizens of
different states, and one or more of said adverse claimants
resides or reside within the territorial jurisdiction of this
Court ......
"Plaintiff disclaims any interest in the amount of its
said bond except to pay same to the persons lawfully entitled thereto. . .

."

'La. Code Prac., arts. 575, 579.
130607°-37-27

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

300 U. S.

"By reason of the conflicting claims against the said bond,
and the fact that claims already known to plaintiff greatly
exceed the amount of the said bond, plaintiff is in grave
danger of being greatly harassed and damaged, and cannot
safely make payments to any claimant without the aid of
this Court."
"Plaintiff, with the permission of this Court first
obtained, has paid into the Registry of this Court the
said sum of $20,000.00, the amount of said bond, to. abide
the judgment of this Court."
The bill prayed that Dugas and the other claimants be
cited to interplead and settle among themselves their
claims to the amount of the bond deposited in the court's
registry; that each of them be temporarily and permanently enjoined from instituting or prosecuting in any
state court or in any other federal court any suit on account of any right or claim growing out of the qualifying
bond; that the plaintiff be released from all further
liability on the qualifying bond; and that any other or
further relief deemed proper in the premises be granted.
All claimants under the qualifying bond, including
Dugas, were called into the suit as defendants.
June 24, 1931, the court after a hearing granted an
interlocutory injunction conforming to the prayer in the'
bill.
Dugas resisted the bill by an exception of no cause of
action, a plea of estoppel and an answer. In the plea
and answer he specifically relied on the judgment of April
14, 1931, in the state court and the appeal therefrom,
together with the appeal bond, as showing that he should
not be brought into the interpleader suit.
September 19, 1932, after a full hearing, the court
rendered a decree as follows:
1. Declaring the American Surety Company had complied with all of its obligations under the qualifying
bond by depositing the full amount of the bond in the

DUGAS v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
414

419

Statement of the Case.

court's registry at the time of bringing the suit; and further declaring that company, by reason of such compliance, to be released and discharged from any and all
further liability on account of such bond;
2. Enjoining each of the defendants from instituting
or prosecuting in any state court, or in any other federal
court, any suit against the American Surety Company on
account of any right or claim growing out of such bond;
and
3. Appointing a special master and charging him with
the duty of hearing the claimants and reporting upon the
manner in which the fund deposited in the registry, less
specified fees and costs, should be distributed among the
claimants.
No appeal was taken then or thereafter from that
decree; and it remained in full force and effect.
In due course hearings were had and evidence was
produced before the special master, after which he submitted a report containing his findings of fact, conclusions
of law and recommendations for a distribution of the
fund, less fees and 'costs, among the several claimants
upon a pro rata basis. The report also contained a
statement showing what he found to be the true and
full amount of each claim, the total being in excess of
$60,000.00, and a further statement showing the amount
which, on a pro rata distribution would be payable on
each claim. As to Dugas' claim the master reported the
true and full amount as $4,160.68 ' and the pro rata share
of the fund payable on the claim as $1,141.29.
Shortly after the special master's report was submitted
the several claimants, including Dugas, entered into and
'The master found Dugas' disability was materially relieved at the
time the hearing began (October 26, 1932) and recommended that
his claim be allowed at $20.00 per week for the 127 weeks preceding
the hearing, at $8.00 per week for 173 weeks, discounted at 8%, and
at $250.00 for medical bills and $97.40 for costs and expert testimony,
making a total of $4,160.68.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
I

Statement of the Case.

300 U. S.

filed in the suit a written stipulation declaring that they
acquiesced in the report, waived the time allowed for
filing exceptions, and requested the court to confirm the
report and make it the court's decree.
April 20, 1933, the court, with the special master's
report and the stipulation before it, rendered a decree
confirming the report and directing that the balance of
the fund in the registry be distributed among the several
claimants in accordance with the master's recommendations. No appeal was taken from this decree.
The fund was distributed and paid out accordingly and
was thereby exhausted. Dugas accepted the pro rata
share accorded to him in the master's report and the confirming decree.
March 7, 1934, Dugas brought a suit in the Louisiana
court before mentioned against the New York Casualty
Company, the surety on the appeal bond given in his
earlier suit on the qualifying bond. In this new suit he
asserted that the American Surety Company, defendant'
in the earlier suit and principal in the appeal bond, had
not diligently prosecuted its appeal, but, on the contrary,
had brought the interpleader suit in the federal court and
had obtained therein an injunction which in effect prohibited him from securing a determination of the appeal;
and that it had thereby abandoned the appeal and violated the condition of the appeal bond.
While the new suit was based on an asserted breach
of the appeal bond by the principal, it was brought
against the surety alone. The relief prayed was a judgment in Dugas' favor for $3,019.39, being the difference
between the amount of his workmen's compensation
claim as ascertained in the interpleader suit and the sum
allowed and paid to him in that suit as his pro rata share
of the fund arising from the deposit in court of the full
amount of the qualifying bond. By an amended petition

DUGAS v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
414

421

Statemcnt of the Case.

the amount for which judgment wab prayed was reduced
to $2,999.00 to forestall a removal to the federal court.
To the new suit the New York Casualty Company
interposed the exception of prematurity, among others.
The court sustained that exception, without ruling on the
others, and dismissed the suit. Dugas appealed to the
Supreme Court of the State, which, on January 7, 1935,
reversed the judgment of dismissal and remanded the
suit for further proceedings.'
January 29, 1935, the American Surety Company, with
the leave of the federal court, filed in the interpleader
suit a supplemental bill in which it set forth the matters
and proceedings occurring after the decree of September
19, 1932, in that suit; alleged that the judgment of April
14, 1931, against the American Surety Company and in
favor of Dugas in his earlier suit in the state court was
based entirely on the qualifying bond of February 12,
1930, given by the Lumbermen's Reciprocal Association
as principal and the American Surety Company as surety;
that by the decree of September 19, 1932, in the interpleader suit, to which Dugas was a party, the American
Surety Company was declared to have complied with all
of its obligations under the qualifying bond and was released and discharged from any and all further liability
on account thereof; that by that decree Dugas was enjoined from instituting or prosecuting in any other court
any suit against the American Surety -Company on account of any right or claim growing out of such bond;
that Dugas' suit in the state court against the New York
Casualty Company was brought on the appeal bond given
by the American Surety Company as principal and the
New York Casualty Company as surety on the appeal
taken by the American Surety Company from the judg"Dugas v. New York Casualty Co., 181 La. 322; 159 So. 572.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Statement of the Case.

300 U. S.

ment of April 14, 1931, on the qualifying bond; that if
Dugas should collect any sum from the New York Casualty Company in his suit against it as surety on the
appeal bond, the American Surety Company, as principal on that bond, would be bound to reimburse such
surety; and that in these circumstances Dugas' suit
against the New York Casualty Company was essentially
an effort to enforce the judgment of April 14, 1931, which
was based solely on the qualifying bond, and therefore
was an attempt indirectly to subject the American Surety
Company to further liability on account of that bond
contrary to the decree of September 19, 1932. Accordingly, and in aid of the decrees in the interpleader suit,
the supplemental bill contained prayers for an injunction
restraining Dugas from further piosecuting his suit
against the New York Casualty Company and for general
relief.
To the supplemental bill Dugas filed pleas challenging
the jurisdiction of the court, its power to enjoin proceedings in the state court, and the sufficiency of the case
stated. The pleas were overruled and Dugas answered.
Upon the final hearing the court found the facts to be as
alleged in the supplemental bill and held that Dugas'
suit against the New York Casualty Company as surety
on the appeal bond was essentially an effort to enforce
against the American Surety Company the judgment
which he had obtained against it as surety on the qualifying bond, and therefore was in contravention of the spirit,
if not the letter, of the decrees in the interpleader suit;
and on that basis the court gave a supplemental decree
specifically enjoining Dugas from further prosecuting his
suit in the state court against the New York Casualty
Company. Dugas appealed and the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed the decree, one judge dissenting. 82 F.
(2d) 953. The case is here on certiorari.

DUGAS v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
414

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Ignatius Uzzo, with whom Mr. M. C. Scharff was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harry McCall, with whom Messrs. Victor Leovy,
Henry H. ChafJe, and Jas. Hy. Brunis were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,

after making the forego-

ing statement, delivered the opinion of the Court.
1. The amount or penalty of the qualifying bond was
$20,000.00. The surety's obligation was not to Dugas
alone, but to the other claimants as well; and this obligation was not to pay all claims regardless of their aggregate, but to pay $20,000.00, or so much thereof as should
be needed, and no more. Because the claims exceeded
$20,000.00, the surety paid that sum into the registry of
the federal court, there to abide the court's decree, and at
the same time brought in that court its interpleader suit
against all claimants, including Dugas, to the end that its
liability on the bond might be terminated, and that the
rights of the several claimants in the amount of the bond
so paid into court might be judicially determined and the
fund distributed accordingly.
2. The Interpleader Act of 1926, under which that suit
was brought, makes provision for the filing in a federal
district court of a bill of interpleader by a surety company which has executed a bond in the sum of $500.00 or
more, under which two or more claimants, citizens of
different States, assert adverse rights to the penalty;
authorizes the payment of the amount of the bond into
the registry of the court, there to await such disposal as
the court may direct; and further provides in the latter
part of § 2 and in § 3:
"SEc. 2.. . . Notwithstanding any provision of the
Judicial Code to the contrary, said court shall have power

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

to issue its process for all such claimants and to issue an
order of injunction against each of them, enjoining them
from instituting or prosecuting any suit or proceeding in
any State court or in any other Federal court . . . on
such bond . . . until the further order of the court; which
process and order of injunction shall be returnable at such
time as the said court or a judge thereof shall determine
and shall be addressed to and served by the United States
marshals for the respective districts wherein said
claimants reside or may be found."
"SEC. 3. Said court shall hear and determine the cause
and shall discharge the complainant from further
liability; and shall make the injunction permanent and
enter all such other orders and decrees as may be suitable
and proper, and issue all such customary writs as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and enforce the
same."
By plea and answer Dugas objected to being brought
into the interpleader suit and grounded the objection
upon the judgment, appeal and appeal bond in his earlier
suit in the state court; but the objection was overruled,
and the cause proceeded to the rendition of two related
ddecrees.
In one decree, given September 19, 1932, the complainant surety, by reason of its payment of the amount
of the qualifying bond into the court's registry, was discharged from any and all further liability on account of
that bond, and the several claimants, including Dugas,
were enjoined from instituting or prosecuting against the
complainant surety, so discharged, any suit on account
of any claim or right growing out of such bond. In the
other decree, given April 20, 1933, the court determined
the rights of the several claimants, including Dugas, in
the fund paid into the registry, and directed its distribution among them on a pro rata basis-this decree being in
exact accord with a stipulated request by all claimants
including Dugas.

DUGAS v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
414

Opinion of the Court.

Taken together, the two decrees not only completely
terminated the liability of the complainant surety on the
qualifying bond, but also fixed the full measure of Dugas'
right or claim under the bond, and in necessary effect
determined that the judgment, appeal and appeal bond
in his earlier suit in the state court did not put his claim
beyond the reach of the interpleader suit, or require that
it be dealt with differently from other claims.
Plainly the court had jurisdiction of both the subject
matter and the parties. No appeal was taken from either
decree. Therefore Dugas was bound by both decrees.
Had he exercised his right to appeal he could have obtained a review of the rulings on his objection to being
brought into the suit, on the bearing and effect of the
prior judgment and proceedings in the state court, and
on the right of the complainant surety to be discharged
from further liability in respect of his claim. But these
rulings were all made in the exercise of the court's jurisdiction, were subject to challenge and reexamination only
on appeal, and became conclusive on him in the absence
of an appeal.
3. In the interpleader suit there was an actual, complete and judicially sanctioned payment of the qualifying
bond by the surety, and it was on this basis that the
surety was discharged from all further liability. While
the payment was into the court's registry, and not directly
to the claimants, it nevertheless was a lawful and effective
payment under the Interpleader Act. In effect the first
decree converted the claims under the bond into claims
against the fund paid into the registry; and the second
decree, made after a hearing in which all claimants were
heard, directed and brought about a distribution of the
fund among them according to their ascertained rights.
As Dugas' judgment in the state court was based solely
on the qualifying bond, the payment of the bond and discharge of the surety, as effected in the interpleader suit,

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

operated, under recognized principles of law and equity,
to extinguish his right under the judgment. He relied on
the judgment in his several pleadings and the decrees
fixed the measure of his claim conformably to the judgment. Even the costs awarded to him by the judgment
were included in the computation. Thus it is plain that
the interpleader suit and, the decrees therein dealt with
his claim as it was embodied in and evidenced by the
judgment:
4. Whether, in subsequently bringing suit in the state
court on the appeal bond, Dugas contravened the fair
intendment of the decrees in the interpleader suit is the
principal question arising on the supplemental bill. Both
courts below answered the question in the affirmative.
The appeal bond was in the nature of a security for
the satisfaction of the judgment in Dugas' suit on the
qualifying bond; and in attempting to-enforce this security he obviously was seeking to realize on the judgment. If his right under the judgment was extinguished
he was not entitled to resort to the security; for the relation of one to the other was such that the extinguishment of his.right under the judgment terminated his right
in the security.8
It already has been shown in this opinion that his right
under the judgment was extinguished by the proceedings
and decrees in the interpleader suit.
With this understanding of the operation and effect of
the decrees in that suit, it becomes plain that Dugas'
action in bringing suit on the appeal bond and thereby
attempting to realize on the prior judgment, notwithstanding the extinguishment of his rights under it, was
in contravention of those decrees.
*Cage's Executors v. Cassidy, 23 How. 109, 116; Carpenter v.
Longan, 16 Wall. 271, 275; Dodge v. Freedman's S. & T. Co., 93
U. S. 379, 382; United States v. Chouteau, 102 U. S. 603, 610-611.
And see Illinois Surety Co. v. Peeler, 240 U. S. 214, 225.

DUGAS v. AMERICAN SURETY CO.
414

Opinion of the Court.

His counsel contends otherwise, and seeks to support
the contention by pointing out that the injunction did
not directly forbid Dugas from suing on the appeal bond,
but only from instituting or prosecuting any suit against
the complainant surety on account of a right or claim
growing out of the qualifying bond. But the injunction,
being only one part of the decrees, is not th exclusive
criterion of what was determined and effected by them.
Its purpose was to forestall anticipated departures, not
to limit other provisions or restrict their operation and
effect.
By the other provisions it was adjudged that the complainant surety had complied with all of its obligations
under the bond by paying the amount of the bond into
the court's registry; that, by reason of this compliance,
it was discharged from any and all further liability on
account of the bond; and that the several claimants
under the bond, all of whom had been brought in and
heard, were entitled to designated portions of the fund
so paid into the registry. Under this last provision each
claimant was paid his portion, the fund being thereby
exhausted. It also was adjudged that the fact that Dugas'
claim was embodied in and eviiaenced by a judgment did
not make it other than a claim under the bond or take
it without the reach of the interpleader suit. He acquiesced in that and other rulings; and the amount of
bis claim and his proportionate share of the fund were
fixed conformably to the judgment. He acquiesced also
in this, and accepted the share so allotted to him. In
this way the other provisions in the decrees accomplished
as they were intended to do, the extinguishment of his
right under the judgment; and they did this independently of the injunction.
Of the decisions under state interpleader statutes which
are cited as if making for a different conclusion, it is
enough to say, first, that in none was the statute substantially identical with the federal act of 1926; and, secondly,

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

that in such as involved questions approximately like
those presented to the district court in the original suit
there were locally appropriate applications for the exercise of appellate authority before the rulings became
conclusive, which was not the case here.
Some reliance is placed on the fact that the suit on the
appeal bond was against the surety thereon alone. But
this does not make for a different result. As Dugas'
right under the judgment was extinguished he was no
more entitled to realize on the judgment by suing the
surety on the appeal bond than by suing the principal.
Besides, the surety, if cast in the suit and compelled to
pay, would be entitled to reimbursement by the principal.
The latter, therefore, may be heard to complain in the
circumstances shown here.
5. The jurisdiction to entertain the supplemental bill is
free from doubt. Such a bill may be brought in a federal
court in aid of and to effectuate its prior decree to the
end either that the decree may be carried fully into execution or that it may be given fuller effect, but subject to
the qualification that the relief be not of a different kind
or on a different principle.! Such a bill is ancillary and
dependent, and therefore the jurisdiction follows that of
the original suit, regardless of the citizenship of the
parties to the bill or the amount in controversy.'
6. The power of the court to enjoin Dugas from further prosecuting his suit in the state court on the appeal
bond has full support in §§ 2 and 3 of the Interpleader
Act of 1926 before quoted, as also in settled adjudications
'Story's Equity Pleading, 9th ed., § 338; Root v. Woolworth, 150
U. S. 401, 410-412; Local Loan Co. v. Hunt, 292 U. S. 234, 239.
'Root v. Woolworth, supra, p. 413; Local Loan Co. v. Hunt, supra.

