VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
Syllabus.

VIRGINIAN RAILWAY CO. v. SYSTEM FEDERATION NO. 40, RAILWAY EMPLOYEES DEPARTMENT OF THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF

LABOR,
CERTIORARI

ET AL.
TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 324.

Argued February 8, 9, 1937.-Decided March 29, 19:37.

1. Concurrent findings of fact, by district court and circuit court of
appeals, are conclusive when not plainly erroneous. Pp. 542-545.
2. The amended Railway Labor Act seeks to avoid interruption, of
interstate commerce resulting from disputes concerning pay, rules,
or working conditions on the railroads, by the promotion of
collective bargaining between the carrier and the authorized
representative of its employees, and by mediation and arbitration
when such bargaining does not result in agreement. To facilitate
agreement, it gives to employees the right to organize and bargain collectively through a representative of their own selection,
doing away with company interference and "company unions."
Section 2, Ninth, makes it the duty of the National Mediation
Board, when any dispute arises among a carrier's employees "as
to who are the representatives of such employees," to investigate
the dispute and to certify the name of the organization authorized
to represent the employees; and it commands that "Upon receipt
of such certification the carrier shall treat with the representative
so certified as the representative of the craft or class for the
purposes of this Act." Held:
(1) That the duty to "treat" with the representative so certified is mandatory. P. 547.
(2) The statute does not undertake to compel agreement and
does not preclude the employer from entering into individual contracts directly with individual employees, but it requires the employer to "treat with" the authorized representative of the employees, -that is, to meet and confer with their representative, to
listen to their complaints, and to make reasonable effort to compose
differences. P. 548.
(3) The duty is to treat with the authorized representative
exclusively. P. 548.
(4) This duty is enforceable by injunction. P. 549.

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

3. A court of equity may refuse to act when it cannot give effective
relief; but whether a decree should be refused as useless is a matter
of judgment addressed to the special circumstances of each case.
P. 550.
4. In determining whether the duty of a carrier to treat with the
authorized representative of its employees is enforceable by
mandatory injunction, weight is attached to the judgment of
Congress that conference between carriers and employees is a
powerful aid to industrial peace; and it will not be assumed that
such negotiation will not result in agreement or lead to successful
mediation or arbitration. P. 551.
5. The peaceable settlement of labor controversies that may seriously
impair the ability of an interstate carrier to perform its service to
the public, is a matter of public concern. P. 552.
6. Courts of equity go much farther in furtherance of the public
interest than when only private interests are involved. P. 552.
7. The fact that, by the Railway Labor Act, Congress has indicated
its purpose to make negotiation between carrier and employees
obligatory in case of industrial controversy, is in itself a declaration of public interest and policy. P. 552.
8. The power of Congress over interstate commerce extends to such
regulations of the relations of rail carriers to their employees as
are reasonably calculated to prevent the interruption of interstate
commerce by strikes and their attendant disorders. P. 553.
9. It was for Congress to choose the means by which its objective
of securing the uninterrupted service of interstate railroads was to
be secured, and its judgment, expressed in the Railway Labor Act
and confirmed by the history of industrial disputes and of railroad
labor relations, is not open to review here. P. 553.
10. The activities of "back shop" employees engaged on heavy repairs
on locomotives and cars withdrawn from service for long periods,
are held to bear such relation to the interstate activities of the
carrier as to be regarded as part of them-(Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463, distinguished)-all subject to the power of
Congress over interstate commerce. P. 554.
11. Although the carrier in this case might have turned over its
back shop repair work to independent contractors, its determination to make its own repairs, and the nature of the work done,
brought its relations with the back shop employees within the
purview of the Railway Labor Act. P. 557.
12. The provisions of the Railway Labor Act prohibiting company
unions and imposing on the railway the duty of "treating with"

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Statement of the Case.

the authorized representative of its employees for the purpose of
negotiating a labor dispute, do not infringe the rights of the carrier
under the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. P. 557.
13. In this regard, the Railway could complain only of infringement
of its own constitutional immunity, not that of the employees.
P. 558.
14. Under § 2, Fourth, of the Railway Labor Act, at an election
participated in by a majority of the employees entitled to vote,
the vote of a majority of the participants determines the choice
of representative. P. 559.
15. A certificate of the National Mediation Board, certifying, in
conformity with the Railway Labor Act, that as the result of an
election a specified union has been designated to represent a craft
of employees, and showing on its face the total number of votes
cast 'in favor of each candidate, is not void because it fails to
state the total number 'of eligible voters in the craft, but is prima
facie sufficient, and the omitted fact is open to inquiry by the
court asked to enforce the command of the statute, § 2, Ninth.
P. 561.
16. Section 9 of the Act of March 23, 1932, c. 90, 47 Stat. 70,
which provides that "every restraining order or injunction granted
in a case involving or growing out of a labor dispute shall include
only a prohibition of such specific act or acts as may be expressly complained of in the bill of complaint or petition filed
in such case and as shall be expressly included in . . . findings
of fact made and filed by the court," is not inconsistent with the
mandatory injunction in this case. P. 562.
17. Specific provisions of a later Act cannot be rendered nugatory
by more general provisions of an earlier Act. P. 563.
84 F. (2d) 641, affirmed. D. C., 11 F. Supp. 621.
CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 529, to review the affirmance
of a decree rendered by the District Court against the
Railway Company in a suit by the Federation.
The

decree commanded the Company to treat with the Fed-

eration as the duly accredited representative of the
Company's shop craft employees, in respect of pay, working conditions, etc., and restrained the Company from
interfering with, influencing, or coercing such employees

in their free choice of their representatives, etc.

OCTOBER TERAl,

1936.

Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

Mr. James Piper opened, and Mr. H. T. Hall concluded.
the argument for petitioner.

Messrs. 11.

H. 7'. Loyall

and John C. Domn lly were also on the petitioner's brief
from which the following summary is taken.
Section 2, Ninth, of the Act was not meant to impose
a legally enforceable obligation to negotiate. In requiring the Railway to "exert every reasonable effort to
make and maintain agreements," etc., the decree uses
the very words of 2, First, of the Railway Labor Act
of 1926, which was continued by the 1934 amendments
without change. The court below held "treat with" in
2, Ninth, to mean "negotiate with," and presumably
this portion of the decree was upheld as a definition of
the negotiations the Railway was required to undertake. But in Malme v. Gardnwr, 62 F. (2d) 15, 18-20, the
same court held , 2, First, of the Act to be a general admonition or declaration of duly imposing no enforceable
obligation, citing Teaas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks,
281 U. S. 548, and Pcnnsylvajia Railroad System v.
Pennsylva;nia R. Co., 267 IT. S. 203. The two decisions
of the court below are irreconcilable. It rests the authority to award such a mandatory injunction, not upon
any change in 2, First, but solely upon the addition to
the Act of the provision in § 2,Ninth, requiring carriers to
"treat with" representatives certified, etc. In other
words, it holds, in effect, that an admittedly unenforceable duty "to exert every reasonable effort to make and
maintain agreements" has been transformed into a legally enforceable one by the mere addition to the statute
of this requirement to "treat with" representatives. It
seems to have felt that a direction to negotiate for specified purposes (§2, First), legally unenforceable, was made

legally enforceable by the addition to the statute of
(what it construed to be) a direction to "negotiate" for
any of the purposes of the Act (§ 2, Ninth).
Congress did not intend to make any such chaige in the
law, and did not use "treat with" in the sense of "nego-

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Argument for Petitioner.

tiate with," but in its very usual sense of "act towards"
or "regard." The duty is to treat with the certified representative "as the representative of the craft or class." If
Congress had used "treat with" in the sense of "negotiate
with" it would not have included this quoted phrase.
The essential characteristic of the Railway Labor Act
of 1926 was that it provided a voluntary scheme for the
adjustment of the relations between carriers and their
employees. Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281
U. S. 548, 569. The purpose of Congress in adding § 2,
Ninth, is apparent from the report of the Committee of
the House accompanying H. R. 9861, the bill which enacted the 1934 amendments to the Railway Labor Act.
Section 2, Ninth, was to provide machinery for determining the representative of employees in cases of disputes
between them on that subject.
The requirement that the carrier shall "treat" means
only that, after such a dispute and a certification by the
Board, if the carrier desires to deal with a representative
of the craft or class involved, it must treat with the person or organization found by the Board to be the authorized representative, as the authorized representative, and
not with someone else. It does not mean that as a consequence of a dispute and certification (but not otherwise)
the carrier is under a legally enforceable obligation to negotiate with a representative of its employees. To so
hold is not only to ignore the "voluntary scheme" of the
Act which the Chief Justice in the Texas & N. 0. R. Co.
case said was its "essence," but to impute to Congress the
unlikely intention of creating a duty on the part of the
carrier to negotiate with a representative of its employees
enforceable when, but only when, its employees have had
a dispute as to who that representative shall be.
Even if Congress used the phrase "treat with" in the
sense of "negotiate with," it is obvious -that it did not
intend thereby to create a legally enforceable obligation
to negotiate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Arginent for I'etilioner.

300 U. S.

A duty to negotiate is an imperfect obligation beyond
the power of courts of equity to enforce. Texas & N. 0.
R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 568.
Negotiation depends upon the feelings, desires and
mental attitude of those negotiating, and these are completely beyond judicial control. In order to negotiate in
good faith, one must have the desire and the will to negotiate, and this implies the existence of a desire to make
an agreement upon the best terms possible, and to make
counter proposals if necessary, and do everything else
that constitutes bargaining. It is easy to imagine demands, made upon a carrier by its employees, so unreasonable that the carrier could not for an instant consider
acceding thereto to any extent whatsoever. May the carrier, nevertheless, negotiate without any good faith intention of acceding to such demands to ajiy extent? The
answer must be in the negative-one cannot be said, for
example, to negotiate for the purchase of a house if he
have a settled determination never to buy a house on any
terms. See Story, J., in Tobey v. Bristol, Fed. Cas. No.
14,065, at p. 1321; Pomeroy's Eq. Juris., 4th ed., § 2180.
If § 2, Ninth, of the Railway Labor Act, requires the
Railway to negotiate with the Federation, it is unconstitutional in that it deprives the Railway of its liberty and
property in violation of the due process clause. The mandatory injunction directing the Railway to negotiate
with the representative certified by the Mediation Board
and exert every reasonable effort to make and maintain
agreements and to settle disputes, is a violation of the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
This Court has long held that the freedom of employers
and employees to deal with each other on equal and
voluntary terms, is protected by the due process clause
of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. Lochner v.
New York, 198 U. S. 45, 53; Adair v. United States, 208
U. S. 161, 173; Hitchnan Coal Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S.

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Argliient for Pet ilioiier.

229, 250; Morchead v. Tipaldo, 298 U. 1. 587. The
liberty to refrain from entering into contracts is a part of
liberty of contract; legislation which compels the making
of agreements is a violation of fundamental rights and is
void. Coppage v. Katsas, 236 U. S. 1, 20. Liberty of
contract as a right is, of course, not absolute, but qualified. Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502, 523. But
"Legislative abridgment of that freedom can only be
justified by the existence of exceptional circumstances.
Freedom of contract is the general rule and restraint the
exception." Morelwad v. Tipaldo, supra.
There are here no "exceptional circumstances," no iniininent "disaster," (lW'ilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 342).
no unusual "danger" (Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366,
393), no "desperate" situation (Nebbia v. New York.
291 U. S. 502, 515), no element of "deception" (Hall v.
G(cgcr-Jones Co., 242 U. S. 539, 551). The Railway
Labor Act is permanent legislation. Its validity has
been sustained only as a "voluntary scheme" involving
no invasion of contract relationships. Texas & N. 0. R.
Co. v. Railway Clerks, supra. See also Pennsylvania R.
Co. v. U. S. Railroad Labor Board, 261 U. S. 72; Pen sylvaniia Railroad System v. PcnnsylvaiaR. Co., 267 U. S.
203.
As now construed by the Court below, the Act has
now lost that voluntary character, which this Court declared to be its "essence" and has become a system of
compulsion against the employer; yet, no similar compulsion is imposed upon the employees.
Negotiation with respect to the terms of the contract is
a part of the contractual process; and since the employer
cannot be compelled to take the ultimate step (Coppage v. Kansas, supra), it is plain that he cannot be
compelled to take the initial steps. As viewed by the
Fifth Amendment, the contractual process is a single one;
all of its elements enjoy the same protection. Adair v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Petitioner.

300 U. S.

United States, 208 U. S. 161, 173, in Cooley on Torts;
3 Willoughby, Const., 2d ed., 1802; Allgeyer v. Louisiana,
165 U. S. 578, 589.
The doctrine that liberty of contract includes liberty
to refuse to have business relations to any extent has
been exemplified in the cases upholding the right of every
man to deal with, or refuse to deal with, any man, or
class of men, as he sees fit, whatever his motive or whatever the resulting injury, without being held in any way
accountable (Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raymond
Brothers-Clark Co., 263 U. S. 565; United States v.
Colgate & Co., 250 U.. S. 300; Grenada Lumber Co. v.
Mississippi, 217 U. S. 433; Great A. & P. Tea Co. v.
Cream of Wheat Co., 227 Fed. 46), and in the decisions
again~st schemes of compulsory arbitration (Wolff Packing
Co. v. Industrial Court, 267 U. S. 552, 569; Dorchy v.
,Kansas, 264 U. S. 286).
Further, in construing the Transportation Act, 1920,
this Court has twice strongly intimated that legislation
establishing compulsory negotiation would violate the
Fifth Amendment. Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Railroad
Labor Board; 261 U. S. 72, 84, 85; PennsylvaniaRailroad
System v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 267 U. S. 203, 217. See
Sherman v. Abeles, 265 N. Y. 383; Holcombe v. Creamer,
231 Mass. 99, 109.
The abridgment of liberty of contract here attempted is
arbitrary and unreasonable,-beyond the limits of effective federal statutory control,-beyond the powers of a
court of equity. The direction to "treat with," if it means
"negotiate with," is utterly futile. The direction to negotiate is also futile since the ultimate result of any conference is admittedly without the scope of control.
The injunction restraining the Railway from contracting with anyone except the Federation is a violation of
the due process clause of* the Fifth Amendment. The
carrier is deprived of the right to bargain or contract with

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Argument for Petitioner.

those of its employees who do not desire such representation; and this is so whether the carrier desires to contract directly with an individual in the minority or indirectly through an organization by which the minority
desires to be represented. If the Act empowers the majority to speak for the minority, it in effect delegates to
the majority the right to prevent the carrier from making
a contract with the minority which the minority may be
willing to make. A somewhat similar delegation to the
majority of power to bind the minority was recently condemned by this Court in 'Carterv. Carter Coal Co., 298
U. S. 238.
The Act is unconstitutional in its entirety in that it
attempts to regulate labor relations between carriers and
employees engaged solely in activities intrastate in character which do not directly affect interstate commerce.
The back-shop employees are engaged solely in intrastate activities, as was found by both of the lower courts.
Their work is not so related to the interstate activities of
the Railway as to admit of federal regulation of the employer-employee relationship. First Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 498; New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v.
Bezue, 284 U. S. 415. See also Industrial Accident
Comm'n v. Davis, 259 U. S. 182; Minneapolis & St. Louis
R. Co. v. Winters, 242 U. S. 353.
Furthermore, the work of the back-shop employees at
the railway's shop is manufacture, which is not commerce.
Crescent Cotton Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 257 U. S. 129;
Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S.238.
The proposition that back-shop employees are subject
to federal regulation because in the event of a strike by
such workers the interstate activities of the Railway may
be interfered with is untenable. According to that test
or standard, all activities, no matter how local, would be
held to directly burden or affect interstate commerce inasmuch as any interruption of them by strikes to some
extent would affect the stream of interstate commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondents.

300 U. S.

The. back-shop work is just as local as similar work done
by outside concerns, which clearly could not be subjected
to federal regulation on the ground of possible strike disturbance. Carter case, supra.
The strike test is also untenable because, as is manifest from the testimony, the Railway could per-manently
close its shop tomorrow -without occasioning any interruption to its interstate service. All the work done in
the shop could be handled by outside shops and the
material made at the shop could be purchased in the
market. Distinguishing: United States v. Railway Employees' Department, 283 Fed. 479; id., 290 Fed. 978.
As an attempted regulation of intrastate activities, the
Act is inseparable; it cannot be aided by construction.
United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Trade-Mark Cases,
100 U. S. 82; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127; Illinois
Central R. Co. v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514; Employers'
Liability Cases, supra; Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22,
76-77 (dissenting opinion).
Nor does the separability provision save the Act or any
part of it. Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, 70; Railroad
Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330, 361.
The certification of the Mediation Board is a nullity
(a) because it fails to show that a majority of any craft
or class of employees voted in favor of the Federation,
or even that such a majority participated in the election;
and (b) because it is impossible to tell from it what the
result of the election would have been without the votes
of the back-shop employees.
The injunction is contrary to the Norris-LaGuardia
Act.
Mr. Frank L. Mulholland, with whom Messrs. S. M.
Brandt and Willard H. McEwen were on the brief, for
respondents.
The historical development of the Railway Labor Act,
as amended in 1934, indicates the intent to impose an

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDE'lATION.
515

Argument for Respondents.

enforceable legal obligation upon carriers to treat with
the true representative of any craft or class of their employees certified as such by the National Mediation
Board. The Act was amended to remedy an existing evil.
Carriers were avoiding any treating with the true representatives of employees, through the subterfuge of fomenting and keeping in existence a representation dispute
between a company union and the standard labor organization which the employees desired. In so far as
the evidence presented to the congressional committee
demonstrated, no carrier was then refusing to treat with
the true representatives of employees save under the
cloak of a claimed representation dispute. Thus if it be
true that Congress did not include in the Act any compulsory provisions requiring carriers to "treat" where no
such dispute existed, no conclusion can be drawn from
that fact as to its intention with regard to the enforceability of such an obligation in situations where a dispute
did exist.
Statutes must be construed in relation to the evils
which they were designed to cure. Warner v. Goltra,
293 U. S. 155.
But the Act does impose compulsory obligations upon
carriers to "treat" in some measure with the representatives of their employees whether a representation dispute
exists or not. Petitioner's argument in this connection
rests solely on the provisions of paragraphs First and
Second of § 2 of the Act. These are copied substantially
from the Railway Labor Act of 1926, which in turn took
them from § 301 of the Transportation Act of 1920. As
a part of the 1920 Act this language did not impose an
enforceable obligation. As adopted into the Railway
Labor Act of 1926, it was also held unenforceable in the
case of Malone v. Gardner,62 F. (2d) 15. The petitioner
asserts that this language as used in the Act of 1934 provides an unenforceable obligation under the familiar

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondents.

300 U. S.

"copied statute" rule of interpretation. That language
which creates an unenforceable obligation when a part
of a generally unenforceable statute retains its character
when it becomes a part of an enforceable Act is not an
inevitable conclusion. But, regardless of the enforceability of the provisions of § 2, First and Second, there
are other provisions of this amended statute which do
create enforceable obligations upon all carriers to treat
or confer with the representatives of their employees
under certain circumstances.
Section 2, Ninth, requires carriers to "treat" with the
representatives of their employees "for the purposes of
this Act," which must refer to the settlement of disputes
between carriers and employees. Two types of disputes
are contemplated, those involving the making or changing of agreements concerning rules, rates of pay, or working conditions, and those involving local grievances or
disputes concerning the interpretation or application of
agreements .already made.
The, system set up by the statute for all carriers regardless of whether a representation dispute exists or
not, contemplates a measure of compulsion in the matter
of treating with representatives of employees in the
settlement of both types of differences.
The provisions of § 6 of the Act relating to conferences
between the parties Are certainly enforceable. To this
extent unquestionably Congress has imposed a legal
obligation upon all carriers to "treat" with employee
representatives.
The other type of case, i. e., arising out of grievances
or out of the interpretation or application of agreements,
is to be handled in a different manner. The parties,
however, are again commanded to confer with regard to
the matter. If conferences fail, then the dispute may
,be referred to the National Railroad Adjustment Board
for determination.

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Argument for Respondents.

Either method of procedure as outlined by the statute
results ultimately in the parties coming under definite
legal obligations. Decisions of the National Railroad
Adjustment Board may be enforced by definitely outlined procedure. Acts of the National Mediation Board
are not thus enforceable, but a taking of jurisdiction by
that Board places the parties under a certain legal duty
to maintain the status quo until its functions have been
performed.
Where the ultimate end of the statutory process is the
undoubted creation of enforceable obligations, general
statements of duty are given color by the proceedings to
which they are related. Accordingly, there is specifically
imposed upon all carriers an obligation to confer or treat
with employee representatives "for the purposes of this
Act," i. e., the adjustment of disputes between them.
The obligation to "treat" imposed by § 2, Ninth, is sufficiently definite to be capable of enforcement by injunction.
Courts are frequently called upon to pass upon the good
faith of a party and to estimate his state of mind by
his acts. That bad faith may be successfully concealed
has never been accepted as a valid reason why courts
should be barred from inquiring into the facts and from
seeking to enforce the law. The difficulty, if any, is one
of proof and not of equity jurisdiction.
It must be kept in mind that the carrier was not only
ordered to treat with the Federation. as the representative of the employees in question, but as a necessary
corollary was also ordered not to treat with any other
person or organization claiming to be such representative. Not only is the negative phase of this decree defi-.
nitely enforceable, but it also assists in the enforcement
of the positive phase. This assistance grows out of the
economic relations of the parties. In dealing with nu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondents.

300 U. S.

merous employees scattered over the many miles of territory through which a railroad system extends, it has
been considered necessary by carriers that they negotiate
general agreements defining the rights of whole classes or
crafts of employees as units. If the carrier is prevented
from treating with regard to the negotiation of such
agreements with other parties, its own economic selfinterest dictates that it treat for that purpose with the
certified representative of the employees, and in good
faith.
Section 2, Ninth, of the Railway Labor Act, as above
interpreted, does not violate the Fifth Amendment.
Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377; Wagner v. Leser, 239
U. S. 207; Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. United States, 284
U. S. 79.
If the statute has a "reasonable relation to a proper
use" (Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Burley Tobacco Assn.,
276 U. S. 71); is "reasonably necessary to effect any of
the great purposes for which the National Government
was created" (Highland v. Russell Car Co., 279 U. S.
253); and is not "inappropriate" to remedy "the evil
aimed at" (Packer Corp. v. Utah, 285 U. S. 104), the
statute must be held valid whether contracts or contract
rights are affected or not.
Congress, in the exercise of its legislative discretion,
deemed it necessary to the successful functioning of its
plan to define the nature of the employees' groups
through which the contemplated bargaining was to be
carried on. In selecting the "craft or class of employees"
as such group, Congress was making no arbitrary determination. It was merely recognizing bargaining groups
which were already in existence and functioning as such
on virtually all of the Nation's carriers.
It is further apparent that the craft or class, like
any other group of individuals, can act collectively only

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Argument for Respondents.

through representatives selected by it. The next step
logically, therefore, was for Congress to establish the
means by which such representatives should be chosen.
It was not only logical, but necessary, in order to perfect
the existing system, that Congress establish a method of
choosing the necessary representatives.
The Act does not require a carrier to enter into any
contract, but merely that it shall negotiate with regard
to the matter. The claimed right of freedom to abstain
from negotiations is one whose existence or non-existence
can have no legal or practical effect upon the rights of
the petitioner. The purpose of the Fifth Amendment
was to provide a protection for valuable individual rights.
Until valuable rights are infringed, protection of the
Amendment cannot be invoked.
The claim that the carrier must be free to treat with
any representatives of any group of employees it chooses
means that the carrier, not the Congress, should have
the power to determine the nature of the collective bargaining group of employees, and should be able to deal
with groups smaller in size than the craft or class, i. e.,
disgruntled or favored minorities within the craft or class.
As a practical matter, this asserted right is one of mere
academic value to the petitioner, except as it may be used
for the purpose of avoiding or breaking down the regulatory scheme exemplified by the Railway Labor Act, a
result which would certainly follow its successful
assertion.
By virtue of the practice long recognized in the railroad industry, labor agreements so negotiated by an accredited representative selected by the majority of the
class or craft, have been made applicable to all the employees constituting the class or craft. Any departure
from this arrangement in the nature of another agreement applicable only to the individuals constituting a
130607 -37-34

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondents.

300 U. S.

minority group would inevitably become subversive of
the agreement made by the representative of the majority
group.
The labor agreements covering rates of pay, rules and
working conditions, with which the Railway Labor Act
is concerned, are to be distinguished from the individual
contracts of employment with each employee. They are
the general rules and regulations promulgated by the
employer for the government of all employees of a particular class; but instead of the employer arbitrarily issuing such rules without consulting the employees, they are
formulated in joint conferences and adopted by mutual
agreement.
From a simple railroad operating standpoint, it would
be quite impracticable for two groups, majority and
minority of the same class or craft of employees, jointly
constituting one operating or service organization, to
function efficiently under two divergent sets of labor
rules.
Still other complications would arise. More than one
agreement applying to the same class or craft of employees would make it necessary at the outset to identify
the very individuals to whom the terms of each agreement applied. Thus the individuals constituting the
majority group and those constituting the minority group
would have to be listed for payroll and other accounting
needs. The accounting complications arising in themselvesi would be expensive. The majority and minority
employees would become known, with the result, considering the controversial nature of the situation as a
whole, that all kinds of disturbances growing out of
proselyting and favoritism would ensue to impair the
morale of the labor forces.
Under what conditions is the employee to work who
elects neither the standards of the majority nor the

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Argument for Respondents.

minority group? May he make still another agreement? If so, where is the process to end? Such is the
situation which the Railway Labor Act and prior railway
labor legislation sought to correct.
Collective bargaining has been recognized by this Court
as legitimate and salutary. Its fostering and protection
of the Nation's carriers as a means of settling disputes
between them and their employees has been recognized
as a legitimate congressional function. Texas & N. 0.
R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548.
The petitioner is a common carrier, a public utility, the
operator of a business peculiarly charged with the public
interest. Its business may, therefore, be regulated to a
greater extent than is the case with other industries without infringing upon the constitutional guarantee of
freedom of contract. Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332.
In many respects, the private rights of carriers to enter
into contracts have been subjected to unique restrictions
conforming to the importance of the services which they
perform for the public and the liability of the public to
harm if that service is not constantly and justly rendered,
all without violation of the Fifth Amendment. That the
public is vitally concerned in labor disputes involving
carriers and employees is obvious. The Railway Labor
Act is designed to safeguard this public interest.
Distinguishing: Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S.
238. The decision in the Carter case is not binding upon
the Court in this one because of the vast and fundamental differences between the statutes involved, both
as to subject matter and as to their legal consequences.
The Railway Labor Act is a valid exercise of the interstate commerce power.
The consideration of whether a person or thing is
directly engaged in or being used in interstate commerce
affords at best a sort of rule of thumb method of deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for Respondents.

300 U. S.

mining whether he or it comes within the scope of federal
regulatory power. If so engaged or used, federal authority may doubtless be applied. If not, the opposite conclusion does not follow. The authority of Congress is
not governed by the employment of people or things in
interstate commerce, but by the effects upon that commerce of the acts or practices sought to be regulated. Indeed,,the authority of Congress has been held to extend
to at least two classes of cases where purely intrastate
matters are or may be involved. First, the Federal
Government may exercise its power to prevent direct injury or interruption to the flow of interstate commerce
whatever may be the source of that injury or interruption. Second, where the operations of a carrier are such
that its interstate and intrastate activities are so inextricably commingled that they cannot be separated for
the purposes of regulation, the power of Congress has
been held to extend to both.
As for interruptions to interstate commerce, the disastrous results of strikes on interstate railroads is a matter of common knowledge.
If the Government of the United States has the power
to prevent such interruptions to commerce by injunction
after the interruption has begun, it has equal power to
eliminate the source of the interruption before it occurs.
Reasoning from past experiences, the Congress concluded that the interruptions which it sought to prevent
might arise as easily from disputes involving shop employees as from any other class. Nice distinctions between employees engaged in interstate commerce and
those not so engaged, or between back-shop employees
and others, were not attempted, for the reason that no
such distinctions have ever been apparent in the results
of the disputes involving these various groups. Whatever the group, the ultimate result of a serious dispute
between a carrier and its employees has been the same-

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Argument for Respondents.

interruption to interstate commerce, direct and disastrous. Accordingly, Congress sought to apply the procedure set up in the statute to all classes of carriers' employees defined a such by the rulings of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. In so doing, Congress was applying no novel constitutional theory, but was treading
a path well marked by the decisions of this Court. Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20; Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33; Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 221 U. S. 612; Wilson v.
New, 243 U. S. 332; New England Divisions Case, 261
U. S. 184; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. v. United States, 263
U. S. 456.
The difficulty experienced by the courts in determining
whether a single employee is engaged in interstate commerce at a single moment of time (in applying the Second
Federal Employers' Liability Act) is attested by the vast
number of cases on the point. The decisions, both state
and federal, are hopelessly contradictory, and many situations have been presented to this Court for final adjudication. The confusion which would follow any attempt
to separate employees for the purpose of regulation of
labor relations with their employing carriers would be so
great as to render any such plan unworkable. Here we
would have involved not a single employee, nor a single
moment of time, as in a personal injury case, but numbers of employees and long courses of relationships between them and their employer extending over many
years. CoDsider two groups of employees of the same
carrier performing similar tasks, e. g., those performed by
machinists, the one group making running repairs, the
other working in the back shop, the one therefore working in interstate commerce, the other not. Both groups
belong to the same craft, usually both belong to the same
labor organization. Their common interests are virtually

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for the United States.

300 U. S.

identical. Labor unrest may easily spread from one to
the other. No practical distinction is maintained between them in the operation of a railroad. Neither group
is static. A given employee may be in one category today and the other tomorrow, or in any one day he may
perform tasks appertaining to both. All this is strikingly
illustrated by the situation now existing on the Virginian
Railroad.
That this carrier has attempted no such division in practice as it says exists between back-shop employees and
others, in regulating its own business affairs, is the best
evidence that such a division is entirely impracticable.
In Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States, supra,
and Carter v. Carter Coal Co., supra, this Court was careful to distinguish between the production of such goods
as would ultimately be transported in interstate commerce, the handling of those goods after commerce had
ceased, and the commercial process itself. Labor disputes
in businesses whose function is production or distribution,
though they might be effective to prevent the goods in
question from entering interstate commerce, and by inference though they might so clog the machinery of distribution as to ultimately dam up the commercial stream,
were considered by the Court as affecting interstate commerce only indirectly. Those cases establish no rule of
law exempting the field of labor relations as such from
the scope of federal regulation. They merely define commerce and point out those acts which may be said to'
directly affect it. The doctrine expressed in Texas &
N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks has not been'disturbed or
modified by these later decisions.
The certification of the National Mediation Board is
valid.
The Norris-LaGuardia Act is not applicable.
Solicitor General Reed, with whom Attorney General
Cummings and Messrs. CharlesE. Wyzanski, Jr., Wendell

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Argument for the United States.

Berge, Leo F. Tierney, and Robert L. Stern were on the
brief, on behalf of the United States, as amicus cdriae, by
special leave of Court.
The Railway Labor Act may constitutionally be applied to cover persons employed in the back shops of a
carrier even though such persons are not themselves engaged in interstate commerce. This Court has already
upheld the validity of the Act as applied to clerks,
whose work is. obviously intrastate in nature. Texas
& N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548. The
purpose of the Act was to prevent strikes which threatened the service of the necessary agencies 'of interstate transportation. Labor disputes between carriers
and their shop employees would both endanger the safety
of interstate transportation and directly obstruct its
movement. Moreover, a dispute between a carrier and its
back-shop employees would necessarily be communicated
to employees engaged in interstate commerce, inasmuch
as the mechanical department of a carrier, which includes
both back-shop employees and those engaged in making
running repairs, is operated and organized as a unit. The
principle of the Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463,
does not apply here. Although interstate commerce
might not be affected at all by the rule of liability applicable to shopmen's injuries, it would be directly obstructed if shopmen ceased to work and if railroad equipment was not repaired.
It is doubtful whether there are any railroad employees
whose work is not essential to the effective functioning
of the transportation system or as to whom it might not
be said that labor disputes between them and their employers would interfere with interstate commerce. But
if it be assumed that there is a small proportion.of employees as to whom the Act could not constitutionally be
applied, it is clear that Congress would have intended the
Act to stand as to the remainder.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Argument for the UnLilcd Stvt(..

300 U. S.

Petitioner does not challenge the enforceability or
legality of subdivisions Third and Fourth of 2, which together form one of the alternative statutory bases for
the negative part of the decree, but claims that the affirmative duty imposed upon carriers to treat with the
representatives of their employees is not enforceable. A
review of the history and context of these sections, however, shows that Congress intended the obligations imposed by paragraphs First, Second, and Ninth of § 2, to
be both mandatory and enforceable.
'Enforcement of paragraphs First. Second, and Ninth
of . 2 is in fact essential to the success of the statutory
plan for amicable settlement of disputes through conferences between representatives of the parties. The purpose and effect of these provisions is to require carriers
and their employees to use the machinery established by
the Act for the attailnent of industrial peace; it does not
change the basic principles of the Act, which recognize
that peace can be achieved only through conferences and
voluntary agreements.
There is no inherent difficulty in the way of equitable
enforcement of the statutory requirement that carriers
confer with ,thecl'presentatives of their employees. The
statute does not attempt to compel agreement, and the

decree only requires the carrier to meet representatives of
employees in conference.
The negative requirement in the decree that petitioner
refrain from entering into collective labor agreements
except with respondent may be regarded as one way in
which a court of equity enforces the affirmative statutory
obligation. Or it may rest upon the negative statutory
obligations included in , 2, Second and Ninth. These
paragraphs and complementary parts of the statute not
only express an affirmative duty to treat with duly
designated representatives of employees but also imply
a negative duty not to treat with any one else as to rates

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Argument for the United States.

of pay, rules, or working conditions. Thus the negative
part of the decree may be in execution of these paragraphs. Or it may be in execution of paragraphs Third
and Fourth, which are unquestionably enforceable.
Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548.
The affirmative obligation does not deprive petitioner
of liberty or property in violation of the Fifth Amendment; the obligation is merely to confer, not necessarily
to contract. Moreover, if such a requirement were deemed
to interfere with petitioner's property or contract rights,
it would be reasonable as a necessary and important part
of the machinery for the prevention of railway labor disputes. Every portion of the statutory plan ultimately
depends for its success on the willingness of carriers to
confer with the representatives of their employees.
The negative obligation does not in fact deprive carriers of liberty of contract, inasmuch as the practice of
carriers is not to contract with individual employees or
with minorities. It would be extremely impracticable for
a carrier to have minority groups of employees working
under different rules than the majority. The privilege of
contracting with more than one representative of a single
class of employees is purely theoretical.
In any event, the prohibition against contracts with
minority groups is reasonable and necessary if railway
labor disputes are to be prevented. The effectiveness of
the machinery of the Act is posited upon agreement between representatives of employers and employees, and
cannot be achieved by conflicting conferences between a
carrier and numerous representatives of individual employees or minority groups working at cross purposes.
Any attempt by a carrier to maintain two or more contracts applying to persons doing the same work, with
standards necessarily discriminating against one group
or another, would result in discord and dissatisfaction and
make labor disputes inevitable.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

The Railway Labor Act does not involve any delegation of legislative power. The doctrine of Carter v.
Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, is inapplicable.
Petitioner's claim that the injunction below violates
§§ 4 (e), 6, 7 (a), and 9 of the Norris-LaGuardia AntiInjunction Act is obviously unsupported by the language
of the sections to which petitioner refers. Moreover, if
there were an inconsistency, the Railway Labor Act,
which was enacted after the Norris-LaGuardia Act and
which deals with the specific problem at bar, would
prevail.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case presents questions as to the constitutional
validity of certain provisions of the Railway Labor Act of
May 20, 1926, c. 347, 44 Stat. 577, as amended by the Act
of June 21, 1934, c. 691, 48 Stat. 1185, 45 U. S. C. §§ 151163, and as to the nature and extent of the relief which
courts are authorized by the Act to give.
Respondents are System Federation No. 40, which will
be referred to as the Federation, a labor organization affiliated with the American Federation of Labor and representing shop craft employees of petitioner railway, and
certain individuals who are officers and members of the
System Federation. They brought the present suit in
equity in the District Court for Eastern Virginia, to compel petitioner, an interstate rail carrier, to recognize and
treat with respondent Federation, as the duly accredited
representative of the mechanical department employees of
petitioner, and to restrain petitioner from in any way interfering with, influencing or coercing its shop craft employees in their free choice of representatives, for the purpose of contracting with petitioner with respect to rules,
rates of pay and working conditions, and for the purpose
of considering and settling disputes between petitioner
and such employees.

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

The history of this controversy goes back to 1922, when,
following the failure of a strike by petitioner's shop employees affiliated with the American Federation of Labor,
other employees organized a local union known as the
"Mechanical Department Association of the Virginian
Railway." The Association thereupon entered into an
agreement with petitioner, providing for rates of pay and
working conditions, and for the settlement/of disputes
with respect to them, but no substantial grievances were
ever presented to petitioner by the Association. It maintained its organization and held biennial elections of officers, but the notices of election were sent out by petitioner
and all Association expenses were paid by petitioner.
In 1927 the American Federation of Labor formed a
local organization, which, in 1934, demanded recognition
by petitioner of its authority to represent the shop craft
employees, and invoked the aid of the National Mediation
Board, constituted under the Railway Labor Act as
amended, to establish its authority. The Board, pursuant
to agreement between the petitioner, the Federation, and
the Association, and in conformity to the statute, held an
election by petitioner's shop craft employees, to choose
representatives for the purpose of collective bargaining
with petitioner. As the result of the election, the Board
certified that the Federation was the duly accredited representative of petitioner's employees in the six shop crafts.
Upon this and other evidence, not now necessary to be
detailed, the trial court found that the Federation was
the duly authorized representative of the mechanical department employees of petitioner, except the carmen and
coach cleaners; that the petitioner, in violation of § 2 of
the Railway Labor Act, had failed to treat with the Federation as the duly accredited representative of petitioner's
employees; that petitioner had sought to influence its employees against any affiliation with labor organizations
other than an association maintained by petitioner, and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

prevent its employees from exercising their right to choose
their own representative; that for that purpose, following
the certification by the National Mediation Board, of the
Federation, as the duly authorized representative of petitioner's mechanical department employees, petitioner had
organized the Independent Shop Craft Association of its
shop craft employees, and had sought to induce its employees to join the independent association, and to put it
forward as the authorized representative of petitioner's
employees.

1

Upon the basis of these findings the trial court gave its
decree applicable to petitioner's mechanical department

employees except the carmen and coach cleaners.

It di-

rected petitioner to "treat with" the Federation and to
"exert every reasonable effort to make and maintain

agreements concerning rates of pay, rules and working
conditions, and to settle all disputes, whether arising out
of the application of such agreements or otherwise, . . ."
It restrained petitioner from "entering into any contract,

undertaking or agreement of whatsoever kind concerning
rules, rates of pay or working conditions affecting its Mechanical Department employees, . . . except . . . with
'The court found that after the certification by the Mediation
Board "the defendant, by and through its officers, agents and
servants, undertook by means of the circulation of a petition or petitions addressed to the National Mediation Board to have the certification of the National Mediation Board aforesaid altered, changed or
revoked so as to deprive its Mechanical Department employes of the
right to representation by said System Federation No. 40, Railway
Employes Department of the American Federation of Labor, so designated as aforesaid, and thereafter did cause to be organized the
Independent Shop Crafts Association by individual Mechanical Department employes by circulating or causing to be circulated applications for membership in said Independent Shop Crafts Association
notwithstanding the certification as aforesaid by the National Mediation Board of said System Federation No. 40, Railway Employes
Department of the American Federation of Labor, as the authorized
representative of its Mechanical Department employes, . . ."

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

the Federation," and from "interfering with, influencing
or coercing" its employees with respect to their free choice
of representatives "for the purpose of making and maintaining contracts" with petitioner "relating to rules, rates
of pay, and working conditions or for the purpose of considering and deciding disputes between the Mechanical
Department employees" and petitioner. The decree further restrained the petitioner from organizing or fostering
any union of its mechanical department employees for the
purpose of interfering with the Federation as the accredited representative of such employees. 11 F. Supp. 621.
On appeal the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit
approved and adopted the findings of the district court
and affirmed its decree. 84F. (2d) 641. This Court
granted certiorari to review the cause as one of public
importance.
Petitioner here, as below, makes two main contentions:
First, with respect to the relief granted, it maintains that
§ 2, Ninth, of the Railway Labor Act, which provides that
a carrier shall treat with those certified by the Mediation
Board to be the representatives of a craft or class, imposes
no legally enforcible obligation upon the carrier to negotiate with the representative so certified, and that in any
case the statute imposes no obligation to treat or negotiate which can be appropriately enforced by a court
of equity. Second, that § 2, Ninth, in so far as it
attempts to regulate labor relations between petitioner
and its "back shop" employees, is not a regulation
of interstate commerce authorized by the commerce clause
because, as it asserts, they are engaged solely in intrastate
activities; and that so far as it imposes on the carrier any
obligation to negotiate with a labor union authorized to
represent its employees, and restrains it from making
agreements with any other labor organization, it is a denial of due process guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment.
Other minor objections to the decree, so far as relevant to

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

our decision, will be referred to later in the course of this
opinion.
The concurrent findings of fact of the two courts below
are not shown to be plainly erroneous or unsupported by
evidence. We accordingly accept them as the conclusive
basis for decision, Texas & N. 0. R. Co. V. Brotherhood of
Railway & S. S. Clerks, 281 U. S. 548, 558; Pick Mfg. Co.
v. General Motors Corp., 299 U. S. 3, 4, and address ourselves to the questions of law raised on the record.
First. The Obligation Imposed by the Statute. By
Title III of the Transportation Act of February 28, 1920,
c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 469, Congress set up the Railroad Labor
Board as a means for the peaceful settlement, by agreement or by arbitration, of labor controversies between interstate carriers and their employees. It sought "to encourage settlement without strikes, first by conference between the parties; failing that, by reference to adjustment
boards of the parties' own choosing, and if this is ineffective, by a full hearing before a National Board . . ."
Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Railroad Labor Board, 261 U. S.
72, 79. The decisions of the Board were supported by no
legal sanctions. The disputants were not "in any way to
be forced into compliance with the statute or with the judgments pronounced by the Labor Board, except through
the effect of adverse public opinion." PennsylvaniaFederationv. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 267 U. S. 203, 216.
In 1926 Congress, aware of the impotence of the Board,

and of the fact that its authority was generally not recognized or respected by the railroads or their employees,
made a fresh start toward the peaceful settlement of labor
disputes affecting railroads, by the repeal of the 1920 Act
and the adoption of the Railway Labor Act. Report, Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, No. 222, 69th
Cong., 1st Sess. Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of
Railway & S. S. Clerks, supra, 563. By the new measure
Congress continued its policy of encouraging the amicable
adjustment of labor disputes by their voluntary submis-

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

sion to arbitration before an impartial board, but it supported that policy by the imposition of legal obligations.
It provided means for enforcing the award obtained by arbitration between the parties to labor disputes. § 9. In
certain circumstances it prohibited any change in conditions, by the parties to an unadjusted labor dispute, for a
period of thirty days, except by agreement. § 10. It
recognized their right to designate representatives for the
purposes of the Act "without interference, influence or coercion exercised by either party over the self-organization
or designation of representatives by the other." § 2,
Third. Under the last-mentioned provision this Court
held, in the Railway Clerks case, supra, that employee6
were free to organize and to make choice of their representatives without the "coercive interference" and "pressure"
of a company union organized and maintained by the employer; and that the statute protected the freedom of
choice of representatives, which was an essential of the
statutory scheme, with a legal sanction which it was the
duty of courts to enforce by appropriate decree.
The prohibition against such interference was continued and made more explicit by the amendment of
1934.1 Petitioner does not challenge that part of the

'Section 2 of the Act, as amended in 1934, declares that its purposes, among others, are "(2) to forbid any limitation upon freedom
of association among employees or any denial, as a condition of employment or otherwise, of the right of employees to join a labor
organization" and "(3) to provide for the complete independence of
carriers and of employees in the matter of self-organization to carry
out the purposes of this Act." The section was also amended to provide that "neither party shall in any way interfere with, influence, or
coerce the other in its choice of representatives," § 2, Third, and that
"it shall be unlawful for any carrier to interfere in any way with the
organization of its employees, or to use the funds of the carrier in
maintaining or assisting or contributing to any labor organization . . . or to influence or coerce employees in an effort to induce
them to join or remain or not to join or remain members of any labor
organization." § 2, Fourth.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

decree which enjoins any interference by it with the free
choice of representatives by its employees, and the fostering, in the circumstances of this case, of the company
union. That contention is not open to it in view of our
decision in the Railway Clerks case, supra, and of the unambiguous language of § 2, Third, and Fourth, of the
Act, as amended.
But petitioner insists that the statute affords no legal
sanction for so much of the decree as directs petitioner to
"treat with" respondent Federation "and exert every
reasonable effort to make and maintain agreements concerning rates of pay, rules and working conditions, and
to settle all disputes whether arising out of the application of such agreements or otherwise." It points out
that the requirement for reasonable effort to reach an
agreement is couched in the very words of § 2, First,
which were taken from § 301 of the Transportation Act,
and which were held to be without legal sanction in that
Act. Pennsylvania Federation v. Pennsylvania R. Co.,
supra, 215. It is argued that they cannot now be given
greater force as reinacted in the Railway Labor Act of
1926, and continued in the 1934 amendment. But these
words no longer stand alone and unaided by mandatory
provision of the statute as they did when first enacted.
The amendment of the Railway Labor Act added new
provisions in § 2, Ninth, which makes it the duty of the
Mediation Board, when any dispute arises among the
carrier's employees, "as to who are the representatives
of such employees," to investigate the dispute and to certify, as was done in this case, the name of the organization authorized to represent the employees. It commands that "Upon receipt of such certification the carrier shall treat with the representative so certified as the
representative of the craft or class for the purposes of
this Act."

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of. the Court.

It is, we think, not open to doubt that Congress intended that this requirement be mandatory upon the railroad employer, and that its command, in a proper case,
be enforced by the courts. The policy of the Transportation Act of encouraging voluntary adjustment of labor
disputes, made manifest by those provisions of the Act
which clearly contemplated the moral force of public
opinion as affording its ultimate sanction, was, as we
have seen, abandoned by the enactment of the Railway
Labor Act. Neither the purposes of the later Act, as
amended, nor its provisions when read, as they must be,
in the light of our decision in the Railway Clerks case,
supra, lend support to the contention that its enactments,
which are mandatory in form and capable of enforcement
by judicial process, were intended to be without legal
sanction.'
Experience had shown, before the amendment of 1934,
that when there was no dispute as to the organizations
authorized to represent the employees, and when -there
was willingness of the employer to meet such representative for a discussion of their grievances, amicable adjustment of differences had generally followed and strikes had
been avoided.
On the other hand, a prolific source of
dispute had been the maintenance by the railroads of
company unions and the denial by railway management
The 1934 amendment imposed various other obligations upon the
carrier, to which criminal penalties were attached-[§ 2, Tenth]-e. g.,
prohibitions against helping unions, by contributions of funds, or
assistance in the collection of dues, § 2, Fourth; against requiring
employees to promise to join or not to join a labor union, § 2, Fifth;
against changing rates of pay, etc., without specifying a conference
upon thirty days' notice, § 2, Seventh; and see the requirement that'

the carrier post notices that all disputes will be determined in accordance with the Act, § 2, Eighth.
In the first two years after the enactment of the Railway Labor
Act of 1926, 363 cases concerning rates of pay, rules or working conditions were submitted to the United States Board of Mediation, and
130607 -37-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

of the authority of representatives chosen by their employees. Report of House Committee on Interstate and
Foreign Commerce, No. 1944, 73rd Cong., 2d Sess., pp.
1-2.' Section 2, Ninth, of the amended Act, was specifically aimed at this practice. It provided a means for
ascertaining who are the authorized representatives of
the employees through intervention and certification by
the Mediation Board, and commanded the carrier to treat
with the representative so certified. That the command
was limited in its application to the case of intervention
about 25% of these were withdrawn by the parties. Yet, during the
same period, more than 600 direct and voluntary settlements were
negotiated. See United States Board of Mediation, First Annual
Report, For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1927, pp. 10-11; Second
Annual Report, For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1928, pp. 11,
58-59. Compare National Mediation Board, Second Annual Report,
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1936, at p. 1: "For every dispute
submitted to . . .these Boards, there were many others considered
and settled in conferences between representatives of carriers and of
the employees as required by section 2, second, of the Act."
See also testimony of William M. Leiserson, Chairman of the
National Mediation Board until February 1, 1937, at Hearing by
Natiosial Labor Relations Board in the case of Jones & Laughlin
Steel Corporation, 301 U. S. 1: "If we have a threat of a strike
now [on the railroads] it might be on a big fundamental question,
like wages and hours, and we usually find we can settle those by
arbitration or otherwise. . . .But if the issues involved were discrimination or discharge of men because they had joined the organization, or the question would be the right of the organization to
represent them, we could not have settled those strikes." See Governmental Protection of Labor's Right to Organize, National Labor
Relations Board, Division of Economic Research, Bull. No. 1,
August, 1936, pp. 17-18.
' See also statement by Representative Crosser, in charge of the bill
on the floor, in Hearings, House Committee on Rules, 73d Cong., 2d
Sess., on H. R. 9861, pp. 10-11, 13: "The purpose of the bill is . . .
[inter alia] to outlaw the attempt that has been made in numerous
instances by employers who control alleged labor unions, and thereby,
to use a slang phrase, to 'gum up the works', . . . We have had 8

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

and certification by the Mediation Board indicates not
that its words are precatory, but only that Congress hit
at the evil "where experience shows it to be most felt."
Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224, 227.
Petitioner argues that the phrase "treat with" must
be taken as meaning "regard" or "act towards," so that
compliance with its mandate requires the employer to
meet the authorized representative of the employees
only if and when he shall elect to negotiate with
them. This suggestion disregards the words of the section, and ignores the plain purpose made manifest
throughout the numerous provisions of the Act. Its
major objective is the avoidance of industrial strife, by
conference between the authorized representatives of
employer and employee. The command to the employer to "treat with" the authorized representative of
the employees adds nothing to the 1926 Act, unless it
requires some affirmative act on the part of the employer.
Compare the Railway Clerks case, supra. As we cannot
assume that it8 addition to the statute was purposeless,
we must take its meaning to be that which the words suggest, which alone would add something to the statute as
years of operation of this act, and we have prevented any strikcs.
But strikes have been threatened because of the defects which have
been found in this bill."
Under the 1926 Act disputes over the designation of employee representatives could be dealt with by the old United States Mediation
Board only by agreement of the parties. The carriers agreed to an
election conducted by the Board but nine times in six years, see testimony of William M. Leiserson, Chairman of the National Mediation
Board until February 1, 1937, at Hearing by National Labor Relations Board in the case of Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp., 301
U. S. 1; Governmental Protection of Labor's Right to Organize,
National Labor Relations Board, Division of Economic Research,
Bull. No. 1, August, 1936, p. 50. The 1934 amendment was fallowed by a large increase in the number of representation disputes
submitted to the.National Mediation Board. See infra, Note 7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

it was before amendment, and which alone would tend to
effect the purpose of the legislation. The statute does
not undertake to compel agreement between the employer
and employees, but it does command those preliminary
steps without which no agreement can be reached. It at
least requires the employer to meet and confer with the
authorized representative of its employees, to listen to
their complaints, to make reasonable effort to compose
differences-in short, to enter into a negotiation for the
settlement of labor disputes such as is contemplated by
§ 2, First.
Petitioner s insistence that the statute does not warrant
so much of the decree as forbids it to enter into contracts
of employment with its individual employees is based
upon a misconstruction of the decree. Both the statute
and the decree are aimed at securing settlement of labor
disputes by inducing collective bargaining with the true
representative of the employees and by preventing such
bargaining with any who do not represent them. The
obligation imposed on the employer by § 2, Ninth, to treat
with the true representative of the employees as designated by the Mediation Board, when read in the light of
the declared purposes of the Act, and of the provisions of
§ 2, Third and Fourth, giving to the employees the right
to organize and bargain collectively through the representative of their own selection, is exclusive. It imposes the
affirmative duty to treat only with the true representative, and hence the negative duty to treat with no other.
We think, as the Government concedes in its brief,6 that
' (Note 35a.) "The Government interprets the negative obligations
imposed by the statute and decree as having the following effect:
"When the majority of a craft or class has (either by secret ballot
or otherwise) selected a representative, the carrier cannot make with
anyone other than the representative a collective. contract (i. e., a
contract which sets rates of pay, rules, or working conditions),

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

the injunction against petitioner's entering into any contract corcerning rules, rates of pay and working conditions, except with respondent, is designed only to prevent
collective bargaining with anyone purporting to represent
employees, other than respondent, who has been ascertained to be their true representative. When read in its
context it must be taken to prohibit the negotiation of
labor contracts, generally applicable to employees in the
mechanical department, with any representative other
than respondent, but not as precluding such individual
contracts as petitioner may elect to make directly with individual employees. The decree, thus construed, conforms, in both its affirmative and negative aspects, to the
requirements of § 2.
Proprietyof Relief in Equity. Petitioner contends that
if the statute is interpreted as requiring the employer to
negotiate with the representative of his employees, its
obligation is not the appropriate subject of a decree in
equity; that negotiation depends on desires and mental
attitudes which are beyond judicial control, and that since
equity cannot compel the parties to agree, it will not
whether the contract covers the class as a whole or a part thereof.
Neither the statute nor the decree prevents the carrier from refusing
to make a collective contract and hiring individuals on whatever
terms the carrier may by unilateral action determine. In hirings of
that sort the individual does not deal in a representative capacity
with the carrier and the hiring does not set general rates of pay, rules,
or working conditions. Of course, as a matter of voluntary action,
not as a result of the statute or the decree, the carrier may contract
with the duly designated representative to hire individuals only on
the terms of a collective understanding between the carrier and the
representative; but any such agreement would be entirely voluntary
on the carrier's part and would in no sense be compelled.
"If the majority of a craft or class has not selected a representative, the carrier is. free to make with anyone it pleases and for any
group it pleases contracts establishing rates of pay, rules, or working
conditions"

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the (oiit.

300 U. S.

compel them to take the preliminary steps which may result in agreement.
There is no want of capacity in the court to direct complete performance of the entire obligation: both the negative duties not to maintain a company union and not to
negotiate with any representative of the employees other
than respondent and the affirmative duty to treat with respondent. Full performance of both is commanded by
the decree in terms which leave in no uncertainty the
requisites of performance. In compelling compliance with
either duty it does far less than has been done in compelling the discharge of a contractual or statutory obligation calling for a construction or engineering enterprise,
New Orleans, M. & T. Ry. Co. v. Mississippi, 112 U. S.
12; Wheeling Traction Co. v. Board of Commissioners,
248 Fed. 205; see Gas Securities Co. v. Antero & Lost
Park Reservoir Co., 259 Fed. 423, 433; Board of Commissioners v. A. V. Wills & Sons, 236 Fed. 362, 380; Jones v.
Parker, 163 Mass. 564; 40 N. E. 1044, or in granting specific performance of a contract for the joint use of a railroad bridge and terminals, Joy v. St. Louis, 138 U. S. 1;
Union Pacific Ry. Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 163
U. S. 564; cf. Prospect Park & Coney Island R. Co. v.
Coney Island & Brooklyn R. Co., 144 N. Y. 152; 39 N. E.
17. Whether an obligation has been discharged, and
whether action taken or omitted is in good faith or reasonable, are everyday subjects of inquiry by courts in
framing and enforcing their decrees.
It is true that a court of equity may refuse to give any
relief when it is apparent that that which it can give will
not be effective or of benefit to the plaintiff. Equity will
not decree the exedution of a partnership agreement since
it cannot compel the parties to remain partners, see Hyer
v. Richmond Traction Co., 168 U. S. 471, 482, or compel
one to enter into performance of a contract of personal
service which it cannot adequately control, Marble Con-

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

pany v. Ripley, 10 Wall. 339, 358; Karrick v. Hannaman,
168 U. S. 328, 336; Tobey v. Bristol, Fed. Cas. No. 14,065;
Weeks v. Pratt,43 F. (2d) 53, 57; Railway Labor Act, § 2,
Tenth. But the extent to which equity will go to give relief where there is no adequate remedy at law is not a
matter of fixed rule. It rests rather in the sound discretion of the court. Willard v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557, 565;
Joy v. St. Louis, supra, 47; Morrison v. Work, 266 U. S.
481, 490; Curran v. Holyoke Water Power Co., 116 Mass.
90, 92. Whether the decree will prove so useless as to lead
a court to refuse to give it, is a matter of judgment to be
exercised with reference to the special circumstances of
each case rather than to general rules which at most are
but guides to the exercise of discretion. It is a familiar
rule that a court may exercise its equity powers, or equivalent mandamus powers, United States ex rel. Greathouse
v. Dern, 289 U. S. 352, 359, to compel courts, boards, or
officers to act in a matter with respect to which they may
have jurisdiction or authority, although the court will not
assume to control or, guide the exercise of their authority.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Humboldt S. S. Co., 224
U. S. 474; Louisville Cement Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 246 U. S. 638; see Work v. United States ex rel.
Rives, 267 U. S. 175, 184; Wilbur v. United States ex rel.
Kadrie, 281 U. S. 206, 218.
In considering the propriety of the equitable relief
granted here, we cannot ignore the judgment of Congress,
deliberately expressed in legislation, that where the obstruction of the company union is removed, the meeting
of employers and employees at the conference table is a
powerful aid to industrial peace. Moreover, the resources
of the Railway Labor Act are not exhausted if negotiation
fails in the first instance to result in agreement. If disputes concerning changes in rates of pay, rules or working
conditions, are "not adjusted by the parties in conference,"
either party may invoke the mediation services of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Mediation Board, § 5, First, or the parties may agree to
seek the benefits of the arbitration provision of § 7. With
the coercive influence of the company union ended, and
in view of the interest of both parties in avoiding a strike,
we cannot assume that negotiation, as required by the decree, will not result in agreement, or lead to successful
mediation or arbitration, or that the attempt to secure one
or another through the relief which the district court gave
is not worth the effort.
More is involved than the settlement of a private controversy without appreciable consequences to the public.
The peaceable settlement of labor controversies, especially
where they may seriously impair the ability of an interstate rail carrier to perform its service to the public, is a
matter of public concern. That is testified to by the history of the legislation now before us, the reports of committees of Congress having ihe proposed legislation in
charge, and by our common knowledge. Courts of equity
may, and frequently do, go much farther both to give and
withhold relief in furtherance of the public interest than
they are accustomed to go when only private interests are
involved. Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176, 185;
Central Kentucky Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 290
U. S. 264, 270-273; Harrisonvile v. TV. S. Dickey Clay Co.,
289 U. S. 334, 338; Beasley v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.,
191 U. S. 492, 497; Joy v. St. Louis, supra, 47; Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Marshall, 136 U. S. 393, 405-406; Con ger
v. New York, TV. S. & B. R. Co., 120 N. Y. 29, 32, 33;
23 N. E. 983. The fact that Congress has indicated its
purpose to make negotiation obligatory is in itself a declaration of public interest and policy which should be
persuasive in inducing courts to give relief. It is for similar reasons that courts, which traditionally have refused
to compel performance of a contract to submit to arbitration, Tobey v. Bristol, supra, enforce statutes commanding performance of arbitration agreements. Red Cross

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

Line v. Atlantic Fruit Co., 264 U. S. 109, 119, 121; Marine
Transit Corp. v. Dreyfus, 284 U. S. 263, 278.
The decree is authorized by the statute and was granted
in an appropriate exercisp of the equity powers of the
court.
Second. Constitutionality of § 2 of the Railway Labor
Act. (A) Validity Under the Commerce Clause. The
power of Congress over interstate commerce extends to
such regulations of the relations of rail carriers to their
employees as are reasonably calculated to prevent the interruption of interstate commerce by strikes and their
attendant disorders. Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 347348. The Railway Labor Act, § 2, declares that its purposes, among others, are "To avoid any interruption to
commerce or to the operation of any carrier engaged
therein," and "to provide for the prompt and orderly settlement of all disputes concerning rates of pay, rules or
working conditions." The provisions of the Act and its
history, to which reference has been made, establish that
such are its purposes, and that the latter is in aid of the
former. What has been said indicates clearly that its
provisions are aimed at the settlement of industrial disputes by the promotion of collective bargaining between
employers and the authorized representative of their employees, and by mediationland arbitration when such bargaining does not result in agreement. It was for Congress
to make the choice of the means by which its objective of
securing the uninterrupted service of interstate railroads
was to be secured, and its judgment, supported as it is by
our long experience with industrial disputes, and the history of railroad labor relations, to which we have referred,
is not open to review here.' The means chosen are appro'There was evidence available to Congress that the labor policy
embodied in the Railway Labor Act had been successful in curbing
strikes. In the eight years subsequent to the passage of the 1926
Act, there were only two small railroad strikes. Since the 1934.

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of thc Court.

300 U. S.

priate to the end sought and hence are within the congressional power. See Railway Clerks case, supra, 570; RailroadRetirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330, 369.
But petitioner insists that the Act as applied to its
"back shop" employees is not within the commerce
power since their duties have no direct relationship to
interstate transportation.. Of the 824 employees in the
six shop crafts eligible to vote for a choice of representatives, 322 work in petitioner's "back shops" at
Princeton, West Virginia. They are there engaged in
making classified repairs, which consist of heavy repairs
amendment, there has been but one. See National Mediation Board,
First Annual Report, For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1935, p. 8;
Second Annual Report, For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1936,
p. 1.
In the water transportation and motor transportation fields, there
were frequent strikes. A table submitted by the United States [see
Respondent's Brief, Associated Press v. National Labor Relations
Board, No. 365, October Term 1936, p. 57], and derived from United
States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bulletins
No. R 339 (1936), p. 4; No. R. 389 (1936), p. 4; Monthly Labor
Review (May-September, 1936), Monthly "Analysis of Strikes,"
shows the following:
Man-days of idleness due to labor strikes-

1933

Water Transportation -----------------Motor Transportation ------------------.
Railroads --------------------------------

32, 752
1.5,565
0

1934

1,068, 867
859,657
0

1935

749, 534
202,393
56

(1936May)n.-

119, 820
46, 054
0

Yet-, Lkere were many disputes between rail carriers and their
emp oyees. Apart from the more tAvial grievances and differences
of opinion in the interpretation of agreements, 876 disputes, principally over changes in rates of pay, rules or working conditions were
referred to the United States Board of Mediation between 1926 and
1934. The following table, derived from its Eighth Annual Report,
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1934, pp. 4-5, indicates the suc-

555

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
Opinion of the Court.

515

on locomotives and cars withdrawn from service for that
purpose for long periods (an average of 105 days for locomotives and 109 days for cars). The repair work is
cess of the mediation and arbitration machinery set up by the
Railway Labor Act.
Fiscal Year Ending June 30, - Mtanner

of Disposition

Mediation Agreements ----Withdrawn by Parties --------Arbitration Agreements -.----Closed Account:
Refusaltorbitrate
Retired or closed, other causes--

__________-_______

_________

1927

1928

1929

1930

1931

1932

1933

1234

Total

57
24
27

84
45
14

46
43
10

25
20
4

24
21
2

.45
69
4

23
20
3

17
26
9

321
268
73

0
3

0
2

9
21

3
10

1
5

47
5

39
10

50
9

149
65

But statistics show that many more labor disputes were settled by
direct negotiation, supra, footnote 4, and Congress might reasonably
have feared that the action of certain railroads in negotiating only
with unions dominated by them would prevent such settlements and
lead to strikes. See supra, footnote 5. That there were many disputes, apparent and latent, for which the 1926 Act had not provided
adequate machinery, is shown by the large number of representation
disputes (more than 230) referred to the National Mediation Board
in the first two years of its existence, see First Annual Report, For
the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1935, p. 9; Second Annual Report,
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1936, pp. 5, 7.
It is the belief of the National Mediation Board that peace in the
railroad industry is largely due to the 3,485 collective agreements
covering rates of pay, rules and working conditions, which were filed
by June 30, 1936 [see National Mediation Board, Second Annual
Report, For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1936, p. 26]. In its
First Annual Report, For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1935, it
concluded (p. 36): "The absence of strikes in the railroad industry,
particularly during the last two years when wide-spread strikes, the.
usual accompaniment of business recovery, prevailed throughout the
country, is to be explained primarily not by the mediation machinery
of the Railway Labor Act, btit by the existence of these collective
labor contracts. For, while they are in existence, these contracts
provide orderly, legal processes of settling all disputes as a substitute
for strikes and industrial warfare."

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

upon the equipment used by petitioner in its transportation service, 97% of which is interstate. At times a continuous stream of engines and cars passes through the
"back shops" for such repairs. When not engaged in
repair work, the back shop employees perform "store
order work," the manufacture of material such as rivets
and repair parts, to be placed in railroad stores for use at
the Princeton shop and other points on the line.
The activities in which these employees are engaged
have such a relation to the other confessedly interstate
activities of the petitioner that they are to be regarded
as a part of them. All taken together fall within the
power of Congress over interstate commerce. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. InterstateCommerce Comm'n, 221 U. S.
612, 619; cf. Pedersen v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 229
U. S. 146, 151. Both courts below have found that
interruption by strikes of the back shop employees, if
more than temporary, would seriously cripple petitioner's
interstate transportation. The relation of the back shop
to transportation is such that a strike of petitioner's employees there, quite apart from the likelihood of its
spreading to the operating department, would subject
petitioner to the danger, substantial, though possibly indefinable in its extent, of interruption of the transportation service. The cause is not remote from the effect.
The relation between them is not tenuous. The effect on
commerce cannot be regarded as negligible. See United
States v. Railway Employees' Department of the American Federation of Labor, 290 Fed. 978, 981, holding participation of back shop employees in the nation-wide
railroad shopmen's strike of 1922 to constitute an interference with interstate commerce. As the regulation
here in question is shown to be an appropriate means of
avoiding that danger, it is within the power of Congress.

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

It is no answer, as petitioner suggests, that it could
close its back shops and turn over the repair work to
independent contractors. Whether the railroad should
do its repair work in its own shops, or in those of another, is a question of railroad management. It is petitioner's determination to make its own repairs which has
brought its relations with shop employees within the purview of the Railway Labor Act. It is the nature of the
work done and its relation to interstate transportation
which afford adequate basis for the exercise of the regula.
tory power of Congress.
The Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 498,
which mentioned railroad repair shops as a subject beyond the power to regulate commerce, are not controlling here. Whatever else may be said of that pronouncement, it is obvious that the commerce power is as much
dependent upon the type of regulation as its subject
matter. It is enough for present purposes that experience has shown that the failure to settle, by peaceful
means, the grievances of railrdad employees with respect
to rates of pay, rules or working conditions, is far more
likely to hinder interstate commerce than the failure to
compensate workers who have suffered injury in the
course of their employment.
(B) Validity of § 2 of the Railway Labor Act Under
the Fifth Amendment. The provisions of the Railway
Labor Act applied in this case, as construed by the court
below, and as we construe them, do not require petitioner
to enter into any agreement with its employees, and they
do not prohibit its entering into such contract of employment as it chooses, with its individual employees. They
prohibit only such use of the company union as, despite
the objections repeated here, was enjoined in the Railway
Clerks case, supra, and they impose on petitioner only
the affirmative duty of "treating with" the authorized
representatives of its employees for the purpose of negotiating a labor dispute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936,
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

Even though Congress, in the choice of means to effect
a permissible regulation of commerce, must conform to
due process, RailroadRetirement Board v. Alton R. Co.,
supra, 347; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. United States,
284 U. S. 80, 97; see Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v.
Radford, 295 U. S. 555, 589, it is evident that where, as
here, the means chosen are appropriate to the permissible
end, there is little scope for the operation of the due
process clause. The railroad can complain only of the
infringement of its own constitutional immunity, not that
of its employees. Erie R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685,
697; Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571, 576; Rail
& River Coal Co. v. Yaple, 236 U. S. 338, 349; cf.
Hawkins v. Bleakly, 243 U. S. 210, 214. And the Fifth
Amendment, like the Fourteenth, see West Coast Hotel
Co. v. Parrish, decided this day, ante, p. 379, is not a
guarantee of untrammeled freedom of action and of contract. In the exercise of its power to regulate commerce,
Congress can subject both to restraints not shown to be
unreasonable. Such are the restraints if the safety
appliance act, Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S.
1; of the act imposing a wage scale on rail carriers, Wilson v. New, supra; of the Railroad Employers' Liability
Act, Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; of
the act fixing maximum hours of service for railroad
employees whose duties control or affect the movement of
trains, Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, supra; of the act prohibiting the prepayment
of seamen's wages, Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S.
169.
Each of the limited duties imposed upon petitioner by
the statute and the decree do not differ in their purpose
and nature from those imposed under the earlier statute
and enforced in the Railway Clerks case, supra. The
quality of the action compelled, is reasonableness, and
therefore the lawfulness of the compulsion, must be

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

judged in the light of the conditions which have occasioned the exercise of governmental power. If the compulsory settlement of some differences, by arbitration,
may be within the limits of due process, see Hardware
Dealers Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. Glidden Co., 284 U. S.
151, it seems plain that the command of the statute to
negotiate for the settlement of labor disputes, given in
the appropriate exercise of the commerce power, cannot be said to be so arbitrary or unreasonable as to
infringe due process.
Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161, and Coppage v.
Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, have no present application. The
provisions of the Railway Labor Act invoked here neither
compel the employer to enter into any agreement, nor
preclude it from entering into any contract with individual employees. They do not "interfere with the normeal exercise of the right of the carrier to select its employees or to discharge them." See the Railway Clerks
case, supra, 571.
There remains to be considered petitioner's contentions that the certificate of the National Mediation Board
is invalid and that the injunction granted is prohibited
by the provisions of the Norris-LaGuardia Act, of March
23, 1932, c. 90, 47 Stat. 70; 29 U. S. C. §§ 101-115.
Validity of the Certificate of the National Mediation
Board. In each craft of petitioner's mechanical department a majority of those voting cast ballots for the Federation. In the case of the blacksmiths the Federation
failed to receive a majority of the ballots of those eligible
to vote, although a majority of the craft participated in
the election. In the case of the carmen and coach cleaners, a majority of the employees eligible to vote did
not participate in the election. There has been no
appeal from the ruling of the district court that the designation of the Federation as the representative of the
carmen and coach cleaners was invalid. Petitioner as-

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

3oo U. S.

sails the certification of the Federation as the representative of the blacksmiths because less than a majority of
that craft, although a majority of those voting, voted
for the Federation.
Section 2, Fourth, of the Railway Labor Act provides:
"The majority of any craft or class of employees shall
have the right to determine who shall be the representative of the craft or class for the purposes of this Act."
Petitioner construes this section as requiring that a representative be selected by the votes of a majority of eligible voters. It is to be noted that the words of the section
confer the right of determination upon a majority of
those eligible to vote, but is silent as to the manner in
which that right shall be exercised. -Election laws providing for approval of a proposal by a specified majority
of an electorate have been generally construed as requiring only the consent of the specified majority of those
participating in the election. Carroll County v. Smith,
111 U. S. 556; Douglass v. Pike County, 101 U. S. 677;
Louisville & Nashivlle R. Co. v. County Court of Davidson County, .1 Sneed (Tenn.) 637;'Montgomery County
'Fiscal Court v. Trimble, 104 Ky. 629; 47 S. W. 773.
Those who do not participate "are presumed to assent to
the expressed will of the majority of those voting." Cass
County v. Johnston, 95 U. S. 360, 369, and see Carroll
County v. Smith, supra.
We see no reason for supposing that § 2, Fourth, was
intended to adopt a different rule. If, in addition to participation by a majority of a craft, a vote of the majority
of those eligible is necessary for a choice, an indifferent
minority could prevent the resolution of a contest, and
thwart the purpose of the Act, which is dependent for its
operation upon the selection of representatives. There is
the added danger that the absence of eligible voters may
be due less to their indifference than to coercion by the
employer. The opinion of the trial court discloses that the

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

Mediation Board scheduled an election to be determined
by a majority of the eligible voters, but that the Federation's subsequent protest that the Railway was influencing the men not to vote caused the Board to hold a new
election to be decided by the ballots of a majority of thoso
voting.
It is significant of the congressional intent that the language of § 2, Fourth, was taken from a rule announced by
the United States Railroad Labor Board, acting under the
labor provisions of the Transportation Act of 1920, Decision No. 119, International Association of Machinists v.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry., 2 Dec. U. S. Railroad Labor
Board, 87, 96, par. 15. Prior to the adoption of the Railway Labor Act, this rule was interpreted by the Board,
in Decision, No. 1971, Brotherhood of Railway & S. S.
Clerks v. Southern Pacific Lines, 4 Dec. U. S. Railroad Labor Board 625, where it appeared that a majority of the
craft participated in the election. The Board ruled, p.
639, that a majority of the votes cast was sufficient to designate a representative. A like interpretation of § 2,
Fourth, was sustained in Association of Clerical Employees v. Brotherhood of Railway & S. S. Clerks, 85 F.
(2d) 152.
The petitioner also challenges the validity of the certificate of the National Mediation Board in this case because
it fails to state the number of eligible voters in each craft
or class. The certificate states that respondent "has been
duly designated and authorized to represent the mechanical department employees" of petitioner. It also shows on
its face the total number of votes cast in each craft in
favor of each candidate, but omits to state the total number of eligible voters in each craft. Petitioner insists that.
this is a fatal defect in the certificate, upon the basis of
those cases which hold that where a findingof fact of an
administrative officer or tribunal is prerequisite to the
making of a rule or order, the finding mustbe explicitly
130607.-37----36

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

set out. See Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S.
388; United Sfates v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 294
U. S. 499; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States,
295 U. S. 193.
The practice contended for is undoubtedly desirable,
but it is not required by the present statute or by the
authorities upon which petitioner relies. The National
Mediation Board makes iio order. The command which
the decree of the court enforces is that of the statute, not
of the Board. Its certificate that the Federation is the
authorized representative of the employees is the ultimate
finding of fact prerequisite to enforcement by the courts
of the command of the statute. There is no contention
that this finding is conclusive in the absence of a finding
of the basic facts on which it rests-that is to say, the
number of eligible voters, the number participating in the
election and the choice of the majority of those who participate. Whether the certification, if made as to those
facts, is conclusive, it is unnecessary now to determine.
But we think it plain that if the Board omits to certify
any of them, the omitted fact is open to inquiry by the
court asked to enforce the command of the statute. See
Dismuke v. United States, 297 U. S. 167, 171-173. Such
inquiry was made by the trial court, which found the
number of eligible voters and thus established the correctness of the Board's ultimate conclusion. The certificate,
which conformed to the statutory requirement, was prima
facie sufficient, and was not shown to be invalid for want
of the requisite supporting facts.
Validity of the Injunction Under the Norris-LaGuardia
Act. Petitioner assails the decree for its failure to conform to the requirements of § 9 of the Norris-LaGuardia
Act, which provides: "every restraining order or injunction granted in a case involving or growing out of a labor
dispute shall include only a prohibition of such specific act

VIRGINIAN RY. v. FEDERATION.
515

Opinion of the Court.

or acts as may be expressly complained of in the bill of
complaint or petition filed in such case and as shall be expressly included in . . . findings of fact made and filed
by the court." The evident purpose of this section, as its
history and context show, was not to preclude mandatory
injunctions, but to forbid blanket injunctions against labor unions, which are usually prohibitory in form, and to
confine the injunction to the particular acts complained
of and found by the court. We deem it unnecessary to
comment on other similar objections, except to say that
they are based on strained and unnatural constructions of
the words of the Norris-LaGuardia Act, and conflict with
its declared purpose, § 2, that the employee "sh,,ll be free
from the interference, restraint, or coercion of e6,rloyers
of labor, or their agents, in the designation of su \,representatives or in self-organization or in other cocerted
activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other
mutual aid or protection."
It suffices to say that the Norris-LaGuardia Act can
affect the present decree only so far as its provisions are
found not to conflict with those of § 2, Ninth, of the Railway Labor Act, authorizing the relief which has been
granted. Such provisions cannot be rendered nugatory
by the earlier and more general provisions of the NorrisLaGuardia Act. See the Railway Clerks case, supra, 571;
cf. Callahan v. United Statcs, 285 U. S. 515, 518; W~alla
Walla v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, 22; InternationalAlliance v. Rex Theatre Corp., 73 F. (2d) 92, 93.
Affirmed.

