STROEHMANN v. MUTUAL LIFE CO.
433

435

Opinion of the Court.

The questioned decree must be reversed and the matter
remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further
proceedings.
Reversed.
STROEHMANN ET AL. V. MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 599.

Argued March 11, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

Where, from the language of a policy of life insurance, it is doubtful whether provisions for disability benefits were excepted from
the "incontestable" clause, the doubt will be resolved in favor of
the insured. Pp. 439-440.
86 F. (2d)' 47, reversed.
District Court affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 646, to review a decree reversing a
decree dismissing the bill. The suit was by the insurance
company to cancel the disability benefits provisions of a
policy upon the ground of fraud, alleged to have been
practiced by the insured in obtaining the insurance. The
District Court at first refused to dismiss the bill, 6 F. Supp.
953, but later ruled the other way when the motion was
renewed after the bill had been amended.
Mr. George H. Hafer, with whom Messrs. George Ross
Hull and Carl B. Shelley were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Win. Marshall Bullitt, with whom Messrs. Frederick L. Allen and Reese H. Harris were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By a policy dated June 30, 1930, respondent Insurance
Company, a New York corporation, agreed to pay the

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

named beneficiary $40,000.00 upon death of Carl F.
Stroehmann, the insured. Or to pay $80,000.00 if his
death results from accidental bodily injury, "all upon the
conditions set forth in Section 1." "And if the Insured
is totally and presumably permanently disabled before
age 60, will pay to the Insured $400.00 monthly during
such disability, increasing after five and ten years continuous disability, besides waiving premium payments,
all upon the conditions set forth in Section 3."
The policy is a long and complicated document. It
incorporates the application and the Medical Examiner's
report.
Section 1 (two printed pages) relates to the "Double
Indemnity" obligation. It defines the injury to which
the insurance applies, specifies the necessary proof,
optional modes of settlement, etc.
Section 3-"Benefits in Event of Total and Permanent
Disability before Age 60," is in the margin.' It defines
"Section 3.-Benefits in Event of Total and Permanent Disability before Age 60.
"Total Disability.-Disability shall be considered total when there
is any impairment of mind or body which continuously renders it
impossible for the Insured to follow a gainful occupation.
"Permanent Disability.-Total disability shall,. during its continuance, be presumed to be permanent;
"(a) If such disability is the result of conditions which render it
reasonably certain that such disability will continue during the remaining lifetime of the Insured; or,
"(b) If such disability has existed continuously for ninety days.
"When Benefits become Effective.-If, before attaining the age
of sixty years and while no premium on this Policy is in default, the
Insured shall furnish to the Company due proof that he is totally
and permanently disabled, as defined above, the Company will grant
the following benefits during the remaining lifetime of the Insured
so long as such disability continues.
"Benefits. (a) Increasing Income.-The Company will pay a
monthly income to the Insured of the amount stated on the first
page hereof ($10 per $1,000 face amount of Policy), beginning

STROEHMANN v. MUTUAL LIFE CO.
435

437

Opinion of the Court.

total and permanent disability; states when benefits will
become effective; what they shall be; when premiums
will be waived. Also specifies what will be considered
permanent disability, when proofs may be demanded, etc.
upon receipt of due proof of such disability and increasing after
sixty consecutive monthly payments have been made to one and onehalf times such amount and after sixty further consecutive monthly
payments have been made to twice such amount at which it shall
remain while total and permanent disability continues.
"(b) Waiver of Premium.-The Company will also, after receipt
of such due proof, waive payment of each premium as it there, fter
becomes due during such disability.
"Specified Disabilities.-The entire and irrecoverable loss of tle
sight of both eyes, or of the use of both hands or both feet or one
hand and one foot, will be considered total and permanent disability.
"General Provisions.-The Company may, before making any income payment or waiving any premium, require due proof of the
continuance of total and permanent disability, but such proof shall
not be required oftener than once a year after such disability has
continued for two years. If such proof is not furnished on demand
or if it shall appear to the Company that the Insured is no longer
totally and permanently disabled, no further income payments will
be made or premiums waived.
"Neither the dividends nor the amount payable in any settlement
hereof shall be decreased because of Disability Benefits granted.
"If the Insured shall at any time so recover that the payment of
Disability Benefits terminates and later shall furnish due proof that
he has again become totally and permanently disabled, Disability
Benefits shall be the same in amount and subject to the same conditions as if no prior disability had existed.
"If the disability of the Insured shall be the result of insanity, in.
come payments shall be payable to the beneficiary, if any, instead
of to the Insured.
"Any disability income payment which may become payable and
which is unpaid at the death of the Insured shall be paid to the
beneficiary.
"Disability Benefits shall not be granted if disability is the result
of self-inflicted injury.
"The provision for Disability Benefits shall automatically terminate if the Insured shall at any time, voluntarily or involuntarily,

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Opinion of the Court.

300 U. S.

And provides: "Disability Benefits shall not be granted
if disability is the result of self-inflicted injury. The
provision for Disability Benefits shall automatically terminate if the Insured shall at any time, voluntarily or
involuntarily engage in military or naval service in time
of war outside of the continental limits of the United
States of America and the Dominion of Canada." Other
provisions relate to termination of such benefits, reduction of premiums thereafter, etc.
Neither ยง 1 nor ยง 3 contains anything relative to fraud
in obtaining the policy or the effect of false statements
in the application.
Section 14-"Miscellaneous Provisions" (two pages)
contains the following paragraph: "Incontestability.Except for non-payment of premiums and except for the
restrictions and provisions applying to the Double Indemnity and Disability Benefits as provided in Sections
1 and 3 respectively, this Policy shall be incontestable
after one year from its date of issue unless the Insured
dies in such year, in which event it shall be incontestable
after two years from its date of issue."
In October, 1932, respondent filed a bill (afterwards
amended) against Stroehmann, the insured, and the
beneficiary in the Uhited States District Court, Middle
District, Pennsylvania. It alleged that the policy had
been obtained upon false and fraudulent, misrepresentations and concealments material to the risk. It asked
engage in military or naval service in time of war outside of the
continental limits of the United States of America and the Dominion
of Canada.
"If requested in writing by the Insured, the Company will terminate the provision for Disability benefits by endorsement on this
Policy.
"If the Insured attains the age of sixty years or if the provision
for Disability Benefits terminates, the premiums payable after such
age or such termination shall be reduced by the premium for such
benefits."

STROEHMANN v. MUTUAL LIFE CO.
435

439

Opinion of the Court.

that the Disability Benefits provisions be cancelled, also
for an injunction against suit at law upon them.
Relying upon the Incontestability clause the petitioner
moved that the bill be dismissed. The trial court sustained the motion, holding that as more than a year had
elapsed since the policy took effect the limitation was
applicable and controlling. The Circuit Court of Appeals thought otherwise and reversed the challenged
decree.
The matter is here by certiorari limited to the question of the application and effect of the Incontestability
clause.
No reason appears to doubt the power of the insurer
to except from the ordinary Incontestability clause all
policy provisions relating to Disability Benefits. Ch. 28,
Laws N. Y. (1923); Steinberg v. N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 263
N. Y. 45; 188 N. E. 152. But the petitioner maintains
that the words used in the policy before us are inadequate
definitely to disclose a purpose so to do. And we think
the point is well taken.
In Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Hurni Packing Co.,
263 U. S." 167, 174, this Court said: "The rule is settled
that in case of ambiguity that construction of the policy
will be adopted which is most favorable to the insured.
The language employed is that of the company and it is
consistent with both reason and justice that any fair
doubt as to the meaning of its own words should be resolved against it." See Royal Insurance Co. v. Martin,
192 U. S. 149, 162, 165; Bergholm v. PeoriaLife Ins. Co.,
284 U. S. 489, 492.
Examination of the words relied upon to show an exception to the Incontestability clause of the policy discloses ample cause for doubt concerning their meaning.
The arguments of counsel have emphasized the uncertainty. The District Court and the Circuit Court of
Appeals reached different conclusions, and elsewhere
there is diversity of opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1936.
Syllabus.

300 U. S.

The District Court accepted the view approved in Ness
v. Mutual Life Ins. Co. (Fourth Circuit), 70 F. (2d) 59,
and Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Markowitz, (Ninth CirCuit), 78 F. (2d) 396, which presented for interpretation language identical with that now before us. The
Circuit Court of Appeals followed its earlier opinion in
N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Gatti, (Oct. 6, 1936), where the
company employed different language. Certain life companies undertake to make exceptions to the Incontestability clause by words more precise than those now under
consideration, and opinions in cases arising upon their
policies must be appraised accordingly.
Without difficulty respondent could have expressed in
plain words the exception for which it now contends. It
has failed, we think, so to do. And applying the settled
rule, the insured is entitled to the benefit of the resulting
doubt.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed. The decree of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.

WRIGHT v. VINTON BRANCH OF THE MOUN-

TAIN TRUST BANK OF ROANOKE

ET AL..

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 530.

Argued March 3, 4, 1937.-Decided March 29, 1937.

1. A motion to dismiss a petition under.ยง 75 (s), as amended, of the
Bankruptcy Act upon the ground that, as applied to the owner of
a farm loan secured by deed of trust, provisions of that subsection
are unconstitutional, held not premature where the farmer debtor
had taken all affirmative action required of him under the section to
initiate proceedings leading to a stay of foreclosure. P. 456.
Louisville Joint Stock Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555, did not

