OCTOBER TERM, 1991

Syllabus

LEE, SUPERINTENDENT OF PORT AUTHORITY
POLICE v. INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR
KRISHNA CONSCIOUSNESS, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT
No. 91-339.

Argued March 22, 1992-Decided June 26, 1992

Held: The judgment of the Court of Appeals, which held that a ban on
distribution of literature in Port Authority airport terminals is invalid
under the First Amendment, is affirmed for the reasons expressed in
InternationalSoc. for Krishna Consciousness,Inc. v. Lee, ante, p. 672,
in the opinions of JUSTICE O'CONNOR, ante, at 685, JUSTICE KENNEDY,
ante, at 693, and JUSTICE SOUTER, ante, at 709.

925 F. 2d 576, affirmed in part.

Arthur P. Berg argued the cause for petitioner. With him
on the brief were Philip Maurer, Arnold D. Kolikoff, and
Milton H. Pachter.
Barry A. Fisherargued the cause for respondents. With
him on the briefs were David Grosz, Robert C. Moest, David
M. Liberman, Jay Alan Sekulow, and JeremiahS. Gutman.*
*Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Airports Association Council
International-North America by Michael M. Conway; for the American
Civil Liberties Union et al. by Steven R. Shapiro, John A. Powell, and
Arthur N Eisenberg;for the American Federation of Labor and Congress
of Industrial Organizations by Marsha S. Berzon, Walter Kamiat, and
Laurence Gold; for the American Jewish Congress et al. by Bradley P
Jacob and Edward McGlynn Gaffney, Jr.; for the American Newspaper
Publishers Association et al. by Robert C. Bernius, Alice Neff Lucan,
Ren6 P. Milam, Richard A. Bernstein, Barbara Wartelle Wall, John C.
Fontaine, CristinaL. Mendoza, George Freeman, and Carol D, Melamed;
for the American Tract Society et al. by James Matthew Henderson, Sr.,
Mark N. Troobnick, Thomas PatrickMonaghan, and Charles E. Rice; for
the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheideggerand Charles
L. Hobson; for the Free Congress Foundation by Wendell R. Bird and
David J Myers; for Multimedia Newspaper Co. et al. by Carl F. Muller
and Wallace K. Lightsey; for Project Vote et al. by Robert Plotkin and
Elliot M. Minceberg; and for the National Institute of Municipal Law Of-

Cite as: 505 U. S. 830 (1992)
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting
PER CURIAM.

For the reasons expressed in the opinions of JUSTICE
O'CONNOR, JUSTICE KENNEDY, and JUSTICE SOUTER, see

ante, p. 685 (O'CONNOR, J., concurring in No. 91-155 and concurring in judgment in No. 91-339), ante, p. 693 (KENNEDY,
J., concurring in judgments), and ante, p. 709 (SOUTER, J.,
concurring in judgment in No. 91-339 and dissenting in No.
91-155), the judgment of the Court of Appeals holding that
the ban on distribution of literature in the Port Authority
airport terminals is invalid under the First Amendment is
Affirmed.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST, with whom JUSTICE WHITE,

JUSTICE SCALIA, and JUSTICE THOMAS join, dissenting.

Leafletting presents risks of congestion similar to those
posed by solicitation. It presents, in addition, some risks
unique to leafletting. And of course, as with solicitation,
these risks must be evaluated against a backdrop of the substantial congestion problem facing the Port Authority and
with an eye to the cumulative impact that will result if all
groups are permitted terminal access. Viewed in this light,
I conclude that the distribution ban, no less than the solicitation ban, is reasonable. I therefore dissent from the Court's
holding striking the distribution ban.
I will not trouble to repeat in detail all that has been
stated in No. 91-155, InternationalSoc. for Krishna Consciousness, Inc. v. Lee, ante, at 683-685, describing the risks
and burdens flowing to travelers and the Port Authority
from permitting solicitation in airport terminals. Suffice it
to say that the risks and burdens posed by leafletting are
quite similar to those posed by solicitation. The weary, harried, or hurried traveler may have no less desire and need
ficers by Benjamin L. Brown, Analeslie Muncy, Robert J Alfton, Frank
B. Gummey III, FrederickS. Dean, Neal M. Janey, Victor J Kaleta,Robert J Mangler, Neal E. McNeill, Robert J Watson, and Iris J Jones.

832

LEE v. INTERNATIONAL SOC. FOR KRISHNA
CONSCIOUSNESS, INC.
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

to avoid the delays generated by having literature foisted
upon him than he does to avoid delays from a financial solicitation. And while a busy passenger perhaps may succeed
in fending off a leafletter with minimal disruption to himself
by agreeing simply to take the proffered material, this does
not completely ameliorate the dangers of congestion flowing
from such leafletting. Others may choose not simply to accept the material but also to stop and engage the leafletter
in debate, obstructing those who follow. Moreover, those
who accept material may often simply drop it on the floor
once out of the leafletter's range, creating an eyesore, a
safety hazard, and additional cleanup work for airport staff.
See City Council of Los Angeles v. Taxpayersfor Vincent,
466 U. S. 789, 816-817 (1984) (esthetic interests may provide
basis for restricting speech); Sloane Supplemental Affidavit
10, App. 514 (noting increased maintenance problems that
result from solicitation and distribution).
In addition, a differential ban that permits leafletting but
prohibits solicitation, while giving the impression of permitting the Port Authority at least half of what it seeks, may in
fact prove for the Port Authority to be a much more Pyrrhic
victory. Under the regime that is today sustained, the Port
Authority is obliged to permit leafletting. But monitoring
leafletting activity in order to ensure that it is only leafletting that occurs, and not also soliciting, may prove little less
burdensome than the monitoring that would be required if
solicitation were permitted. At a minimum, therefore, I
think it remains open whether at some future date the Port
Authority may be able to reimpose a complete ban, having
developed evidence that enforcement of a differential ban
is overly burdensome. Until now it has had no reason or
means to do this, since it is only today that such a requirement has been announced.
For the foregoing reasons, and for the reasons stated in
the opinion in No. 91-155, ante, p. 672, I respectfully dissent.

