680

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

ANDERSON

ET AL. V.

328 U. S.

MT. CLEMENS POTTERY CO.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 342. Argued January 29, 1946.-Decided June 10, 1946.
Respondent produces pottery for interstate commerce. Its employees
enter the plant and punch time clocks during a period of 14 minutes
before the regular starting time for productive work. They walk
from the time clocks to their places of work within the plant and
make'various preparations for the start of productive work. After
the regular quitting time, they were allowed a 14-minute period to
punch out and leave the p',nt. They were compensated for their
time from the next even quarter hour after punching in until the
next even quarter hour prior to punching out. Similar provision
was made for punching out and in before and after the lunch hour.
Thus an employee might be credited with as much as 56 minutes
per day less than the time ,ecorded by the time clocks. Employees
brought suit under § 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act to
recover amounts allegedly owing to them under the overtime
provisions of § 7 (a) of the Act. Held:
1. An employee who brings suit under § 16 (b) for unpaid minimum wages or overtime compensation, together with liquidated
damages, has the burden of proving that he performed work for
which he was not properly compensated. P. 686.
2. This burden is met by proof that he has in fact performed
work for which he was not properly compensated and by sufficient
evidence to show the amount and extent of that work as a matter
of just and reasonable inference. P. 687.
3. The burden then shifts to the employer to come forward with
evidence of the precise amount of work performed or with evidence
to i-egative the reasonableness of the inference to be drawn from
the employee's evidence. P. 687.
4. If the employer fails to produce such evidence, the court may
thn award damages to the employee, even though the result be
only approximate. Pp. 688, 693.
5. An employer who has not kept the records required by § 11 (c)
cannot be l.eard to complain that damages assessed agai b,.t him
lack the precision of measurement that would be possible had he
kept such records. P. 688.

ANDERSON v. MT. CLEMENS POTTERY CO.
680

681

Statement of the Case.

6. The findings of a special master on the purely factual issue
of the amount of actual productive work performed, being supported by substantial evidence and not clearly prroneous, should
have been accepted by the District Court; and it erred in rejecting
these findings and creating a formula of compensation based on
a contrary view. Rule 53 (e) (2) of the Federal Rules. of Civil
Procedure. P. 689.
7. Since there was no requirement that an employee check in
or be on the premises at any particular time during the 14-minute
interval, the time clock records could not form the sole basis of
determining the statutory workweek. Pp. 689-690.
8. Time necessarily spent by the employees in walking to work
on the employer's premises is working time within the scope of
§ 7 (a), and must be compensated accordingly, regardless of contrary custom or contract. However, application of the de minimis
rule is not precluded where the minimum walking time is such as
to be negligible. Pp. 691-692.
9. Time necessarily spent by employees in preliminary activities
after arriving at their places of work-such as putting on aprons
and overalls, removing shirts, taping or greasing arms, putting on
finger cots, preparing the equipment for productive work, turning
on switches for lights and machinery, opening windows, and assembling and sharpening tools-must be included within the workweek
and compensated accordingly. However, application of the de
minimis rule to insubstantial and insignificant periods of time spent
in such activities is not precluded. Pp. 692-693.
10. Unless the employer can provide accurate estimates as to the
amount of time spent in such activities in excess of the productive
working time, it is the duty of the trier of facts to draw whatever
reasonable inferences can be drawn from the employees' evidence.
P. 693.
11. As to waiting time before and after the shift periods, the
findings of the special master, that the employees had not proved
that they were in fact forced to wait or that they were not free
to spend such time on their own behalf, were supported by substantial evidence and must be sustained. P. 694.
149 F. 2d 461, reversed.

Employees brought suit in the District Court against
their employer to recover sums claimed to be due them
under the Fair Labor Standards Act. The District Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

gave judgment in favor of the employees. 60 F. Supp.
146. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed and ordered
the suit dismissed. 149 F. 2d 461. This Court granted
certiorari. 326 U. S. 706. Reversed and remanded,
p. 694.
Edward Lamb argued the cause for petitioners.
him on the brief was Lee Pressman.

With

Frank E. Coo per and Bert V. Nunneley argued the
cause and filed a brief for respondent.
Solicitor General McGrath, William S. Tyson and
Bessie Margolin filed a brief for the Wage and Hour Administrator, United States Department of Labor, as
amicus curiae, in support of petitioners.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Several important issues are raised by this case concerning the proper determination of working time for
purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 52
Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et seq.
The Mt. Clemens Pottery Company, the respondent,
employs approximately 1,200 persons at its pottery plant
at Mt. Clemens, Michigan; about 957 of them are compensated upon a piece work basis. The plant covers more
than eight acres of ground and is about a quarter of a
mile in length. The employees' entrance is at the northeast corner. Immediately adjacent to that entrance are
cloak and rest rooms where employees may change to their
working clothes and place their street clothes in lockers.
Different shifts begin at different times during the day,
with whistles frequently indicating the starting time for
productive work. The whistles which blow at 6:55 and
7:00 a. m., however, are the most commonly used. An

ANDERSON v. MT. CLEMENS POTTERY CO.
680

683

Opinion of the Court.

interval of 14 minutes prior to the scheduled starting time
for each shift permits the employees to punch time clocks,
walk to their respective places of work and prepare for
the start of productive work. Approximately 200 employees use each time clock during each 14-minute period
and an average of 25 employees can punch the clock per
minute. Thus a minimum of 8 minutes is necessary for
the employees to get by the time clock. The employees
then walk to their working places along clean, painted
floors of the brightly illuminated and well ventilated
building. They are free to take whatever course through
th, plant they desire and may stop off at any portion of
the journey to converse with other employees and to do
whatever else they may desire. The minimum distances
between time clocks and working places, however, vary
from 130 feet to 890 feet, the estimated walking time
ranging from 30 seconds to 3 minutes. Some of the estimates as to walking time, however, go as high as.6 to 8
minutes. Upon arriving at their places of work, the
employees perform various preliminary duties, such as
putting on aprons and overalls, removing shirts, taping
or greasing 1their arms, putting on. finger cots, preparing
the equipment for productive work, turning on switches
for lights and machinery, opening windows and assembling
and sharpening tools. Such activities, it <s claimed, consume 3 or 4 minutes at the most. The employees are
also allowed a 14-minute period at the completion of the
established working periods to leave the plant and punch
out at the time clocks.
Working time is calculated by respondent on the basis
of the time cards punched by the clocks. Compensable
working time extends from the succeeding even quarter
hour after employees punch in to the quarter hour immediately preceding the time when they punch out. Thus
an employee who punches in at 6:46 a. m., punches out
at 12:14 p. m., punches in again at 12:46 p. m. and final

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

punches out at 4:14 p. mn. is credited with having worked
the 8 hours between 7 a. m. and 12 noon and between 1
p. m. and 4 p. m.-a total of 56 minutes less than the time
recorded by the time clocks.
Seven employees and their local union, on behalf of
themselves and others similarly situated, brought this suit
under § 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, alleging
that the foregoing method of computation did not accurately reflect all the time actually worked and that they
were thereby deprived of the proper overtime compensation guaranteed them by § 7 (a) of the Act. They
claimed inter alia that all employees worked approximately 56 minutes more per day than credited by respondent and that, in any event, all the time between the hours
punched on the time cards constituted compensable working time.
The District Court referred the case to a special master.
After hearing testimony and making findings, the master
recommended that the case be dismissed since the complaining employees "have not established by a fair
preponderance of evidence" a violation of the Act by
respondent. He found that the employees were not
required to, and did not, work approximately 56 minutes
more per day than credited to them. He further found
that the employees "have not sustained their burden to
prove that all the time between the punched entries on
the clock was spent in working and that conversely none
of the time in advance of the starting time spent by employees arriving early was their own time." Production
work, he concluded, "did not regularly commence until
the established starting time; and, if in some instances
it was commenced shortly prior thereto, it was counterbalanced by occasions when it was started after the hour
and by admitted occasions when it was stopped several
minutes before quitting time."

ANDERSON v. MT. CLEMENS POTTERY CO.
680

685

Opinion of the Court.

As to the time between the punching of the clocks and
the start of the productive work, the master made the
following determinations:
(1) The time spent in walking from the time clocks
to the places of work was not compensable working time
in view of the established custom in the industry and
in respondent's plant to that effect.
('. The time consumed in preliminary duties after
arriving at the places of work was not compensable here
since the employees had produced no reliable ev.idence
from which the amount of such work could be determined
with reasonable definiteness.
(3) The. time spent in waiting before and after the shift
periods was not compensable since the employees failed
to prove that if they came in early enough to have waiting
time they were required to do so or were not free to spend
such time on their own behalf.
The District Court agreed "in the main" with the master's findings and conclusions with one exception. It felt
that the evidence demonstrated that practically all of the
employees had punched in, walked to their places of work
and were ready for productive work at from 5 to 7 minutes
before the scheduled starting time, "and it does not seem
probable that with compensation set by piece work, and
the crew ready, .that these employees didn't start to work
immediately." The court accordingly established a formula, applicable to all employees, for computing this additional time spent in productive work. Under the formula,
5 minutes were allowed for punching the clock and 2
minutes for walking from the clock to the place of worka total of 7 minutes which were not to be considered as
working time. All minutes over those 7 as shown by the
time cards in the morning and all over 5 at the beginning
of the afternoon were to be computed as part of the hours
worked. The court found no evidence of productive work

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

after the scheduled quitting time at noon or night. In
other words, working time under this formula extended
from the time punched in the morning, less 7 minutes,
to the scheduled quitting time at nocn and from the time
punched at the beginning of the afternoon, less 5 minutes,
to the scheduled quitting time for the day. No reason
was given for the 2-minute differential between the morning and afternoon punch-ins. The use of this formula
led the District Court to enter a judgment against respondent in the amount of $2,415.74 plus costs. 60 F. Sunp.
146.
Only the respondent appealed. The Sixth Circuit
Court of Appeals made a careful examination of the master's findings and conclusions, holding that ihey were all
supported by substantial evidence and were not clearly
erroneous. It stated that the District Court erred in
failing to accept the finding of the master that productive
work did not actually start until the scheduled time and
that the formula devised for computing additional productive work was unsustainable because based upon surmise and conjecture. The Circuit Court of Appeals
further held that the burden rested urun the employees
to prove by a preponderance of the evidence that they
did not receive the wages to which they were .were entitled
under the Act and to show by evidence rather than conjecture the extent of overtime worked, it being insufficient
for them merely to offer an estimated average of overtime
worked. The cause of action accordingly was ordered to
be dismissed. 149 F. 2d 461.
But we believe that the Circuit Court of Appeals, as
well as the master, imposed upon the e.)ployees an improper standard of proof, a standard that has the practical
effect of impairing many of the benefits of the Fair Labor
Standards Act. An employee who brings suit under
§ 16 (b) of the Act for unpaid minimum wages or unpaid
overtime compensation, together with liquidated dam-

ANDERSON v. MT. CLEMENS POTTERY CO.
680

687

Opinion of the Court.

ages, has the burden of proving that he performed work
for which he was not properly compensated. The remedial nature of this statute and the great public policy
which it embodies, however, militate against making that
burden an impossible hurdle for the employee. Due
regard must be given to the fact that it is the employer
who has the duty under § 11 (c) of the Act to keep proper
records of wages, hours and other conditions and practices
of employment and who is in position to know and to
produce the most probative facts concerning the nature
and amount of work performed. Employees seldom keep
such records themselves; even if they do, the records may
be and frequently are untrustworthy. It is in this setting
that a proper and fair standard must be erected for the
employee" to meet in carrying out his burden of proof.
When the employer has kept proper and accurate records, the employee may easily discharge his burden by
securing the production of those records. But where the
employer's records are inaccurate or inadequate and the
employee cannot offer convincing substitutes, a more difficult problem arises. The solution, however, is not to
penalize the employee by denying him any recovery on
the ground that he is unable to prove the precise extent
of uncompensated work. Such a result would place a
premium on an employer's failure to keep proper records
in conformity with his statutory duty; it would allow the
employer to keep the benefits of an employee's labors
without paying due compensation as contemplated by
the Fair Labor Standards Act. In such a situation we
hold that an employee has carried out his burden if he
proves that he has in fact performed work for which he
was improperly compensated and if he produces sufficient
evidence to show the amount and extent of that work
as a matter of just and reasonable inference. The burden
then shifts to the employer to come forward with evidence
of the precise amount of work performed or with evidence

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

to negative the reasonableness of the inference to be drawn
from the employee's evidence. If the employer fails to
produce such evidence, the court may then award damages
to the employee, even though the result be only approximate. See Note, 43 Col. L. Rev. 355.
The employer cannot be heard to complain that the
damages lack the exactness and precision of measurement
that would be possible had he kept records in accordance
with the requirements of § 11 (c) of the Act. And even
where the lack of accurate records grows out of a bona
fide mistake as to whether certain activities or non-activities constitute work, the employer, having received the
benefits of such work, cannot object to the payment for
the work on the most accurate basis possible under the
circumstances. Nor is such a result to be condemned by
the rule that precludes the recovery of uncertain and
speculative damages. That rule applies only to situations where the fact of damage is itself uncertain. But
here we are assuming that the employee has proved that'
he has performed work and has not been paid in accordance with the statute. The damage is therefore certain.
The uncertainty lies only in the amount of damages arising
from th, statutory violation by the employer.. In such
a case "it would be a perversion of fundamental principles
of justice to deny all relief to the injured person, and
thereby relieve the wrongdoer from making any amend
for his acts." Story Parchment Co. v. Paterson Co., 282
U. S. 555, 563. It is enough under these circumstances
if there is a basis for a reasonable inference as to the
extent of the damages. Eastman Kodak Co. v. Southern
Photo Co., 273 U. S. 359, 377-379; Palmer v. Connecticut
R. Co., 311 U. S. 544, 560-561; Bigelow v. RKO Radio
Pictures,327 U. S. 251, 263-266.
We thercfore turn to the facts of this case to determine
what the petitioning employees have proved and are
entitled to in light of the foregoing considerations:

ANDERSON v. MT. CLEMENS POTTERY CO.
680

689

Opinion of the Court.

(1) On the issue as to the extent of the actual productive work performed, we are constrained to agree with
the special master that it began and ended at the scheduled hours. This was purely a factual issue. The master
made his findings in this respect through the weighing
of conflicting evidence, the judging of the reliability of
witnesses and the consideration of the geneial conduct
of the parties to the suit. The master thereby concluded
that productive work did not begin before the scheduled
hours except in a few instances which were counterbalanced by occasions when work began after the scheduled
hours or ended before the scheduled cessation of productive work. Our examination of the record leads us to
acquiesce in these findings since they are supported by
substantial evidence and are not clearly erroneous. And
the court below correctly held that the District Court
erred in failing to accept these findings and in .creating
a formula of compensation based upon a contrary view.
Rule 53 (e) (2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
See Tilghman v. Proctor, 125 U. S. 136, 149-150; Davis
v. Schwartz, 155 U. S. 631, 636-637.
(2) The employees did not prove that they were engaged in work from the moment when they punched in
at the time clocks to the moment when they punched
out. They were required to be ready for work at their
benches at the scheduled starting times. They were given
14-minute periods in which to punch the time clocks, walk
to the places of work and prepare for productive labors.
But there was no requirement that an employee check
in or be on the premises at any particular time during
-that 14-minute interval. As noted by the District Court,
there was no evidence "that if the employee didn't get
there by 14 minutes to seven, he wasfired and there is
much testimony to prove that stragglers came.in as- late
as one minute to seven." 60 F. Supp. at 149. Indeed,
it would have been impossible for all members of a par-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

ticular shift to be checked in at the same time in view
of the rate at which the time clocks were punched. The
first person in line at the clock would be checked in at
least 8 minutes before the last person. It would be manifestly unfair to credit the first person with 8 minutes more
working time than credited to the last person due to the
fortuitous circumstance of his position in line.
Moreover, it is generally recognized that time clocks
do not necessarily record the actual time worked by employees. Where the employee is required to be on the
premises or on duty at a different time. or where the
payroll records or other facts indicate that work starts
at en earlier or later period, the time clock records are
not controlling. Only when they accurately reflect the
period worked can they be used as an appropriate measurement of the hours worked. In this case, however, the
evidence fails to indicate that the time clock records did
so mirror the working time. They did not show the time
during which the employees were compelled to be on the
premises or at any prescribed place of work. They thus
could not form the sole basis of determining the statutory
workweek. See Interpretative Bulletin No. 13, paragraphs 2 and 3, issued by the Administrator of the Wage
and Hour Division. U. S. Department of Labor; Wage
and Hour Manual, Cumulative Edition, 1944-1945,
p. 234..
(3) The employees did prove, however, that it was
necessary for them to be on the premises for some time
prior and subsequent to the scheduled working hours.
The employer required them to punch in, walk to their
work benches and perform preliminary duties during the
14-minute periods preceding productive work; the same
activities in reverse occurred in the 14-minute periods
subsequent to the completion of productive work. Since
the statutory workweek includes all time during which

ANDERSON v. MT. CLEMENS POTTERY CO.
680

691

Opinion of the Court.

an employee is necessarily required to be on the employer's
premises, on duty or at a prescribed workplace, the time
spent in these activities must be accorded appropriate
compensation.
No claim is here made, though, as to the time spent
in waiting to punch the time clocks and we need not
explore that aspect of the situation. See Cameron v.
Bendix Aviation Corp., 65 F. Supp. 510. But the time
necessarily spent by the employees in walking to work
on the employer's premises, following the punching of
the time clocks, was working time within the scope of
§ 7 (a). Ballard v. Consolidated Steel Corp., 61 F. Supp.
996; Ulle v. Diamond Alkali Co., 8 WHR 1042. Such
time was under the complete control of the employer,
being dependent solely upon the physical arrangements
which the employer made in the factory. Those arrangements in this case compelled the employees to spend
an estimated 2 to 12 minutes daily, if not more; in walking on the premises. Without such walking on the part
of the employees, the productive aims of the employer
could not have been achieved. The employees' convenience and necessity, moreover, bore no relation whatever to this walking time; they walked on the employer's
premises only because they were compelled to do so by
the necessities of the employer's business. In that respect the walking time differed vitally from the time
spent in traveling from workers' homes to the factory.
Dollar v. Caddo River Lumber Co., 43 F. Supp. 822;
Walling v. Peavy-Wilson Lumber Co., 49 F. Supp. 846.
Cf. Commissioner v. Flowers, 326 U. S.465. It follows
that the time spent in walking to work on the employer's
premises, after the time clocks were punched, involved
"physical or mental exertion (whether burdensome
or
not) controlled or required by the employer and pursued
necessarily and primarily for the benefit of the employer

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

and his business." Tennessee Coal Co. v. Muscoda Local,
321 U. S. 590, 598; Jewell Ridge Corp. v. Local, 325 U. S.
161, 164-166. Work of that character must be included
in the statutory workweek and compensated accordingly,
regardless of contrary custom or contract.
But under the conditions prevalent in respondent's
plant, compensable working time was limited to the minimum time necessarily spent'in walking at an ordinary
rate along the most direct route from time clock to work
.bench. Many employees took roundabout journeys and
stopped off en route for purely personal reasons. It would
be unfair and impractical to compensate them for doing
that which they were not required to do. Especially is
this so in view of the fact that precise calculation of the
minimum walking time is easily obtainable in the ordinary
situation.
We do not, of course, preclude the application of a
de minimis rule where the minimum walking time is such
as to be negligible. The workweek contemplated by
§ 7 (a) must be computed in light of the realities of the
industrial world. When the matter in issue concerns only
a few seconds or minutes of work beyond the scheduled
working hours, such trifles may be disregarded. Splitsecond absurdities are not justified by the actualities of
working conditions or by the policy of the Fair Labor
Standards Act. It is only when an employee is required
to give up a substantial measure of his time and effort
that compensable working time is involved. The de
minimis rule can doubtless be applied to much of the
walking time involved in this case, but the precise scope
of that application can be determined only after the trier
of facts makes more definite findings as to the amount
of walking time in issue.
(4) The employees proved, in addition, that they pursued certain preliminary activities after arriving at their
places of work, such as putting on aprons and overalls,

ANDERSON v. MT. CLEMENS POTTERY CO.
680

693

Opinion of the Court.

removing shirts, taping or greasing arms, putting on finger
cots, preparing the equipment for productive work, turning on switches for lights and machinery, opening windows
and assembling and sharpening tools. These activities
are clearly work falling within the definition enunciated
and applied in the Tennessee Coal and Jewell Ridge cases.
They involve exertion of a physical nature, controlled or
required by the employer and pursued necessarily and
primarily for the employer's benefit. They are performed
solely on the employer's premises and are a necessary
prerequisite to productive work. There 3 nothing in
such activities that partakes only of the personal convenience or needs of the employees. Hence they constitute work that must be accorded appropriate compensation under the statute. See Walling v. Frank,62 F. Supp.
261; Philpott v. Standard Oil Co., 53 F. Supp. 833. Here
again, however, it is appropriate to apply a de ninimis
doctrine so that insubstantial and insignificant periods of
time spent in preliminary activities need not be included
in the statutory workweek.
The master did not deny that such activities must be
included within the employees' compensable workweek or
that the evidence demonstrated that the employees did
in fact engage in such activities. He denied recovery
solely because the amount of time taken up by the activities and the proportion of it spent in advance of the
established starting time had not been proved by the
employees with any degree of reliability or accuracy.
But, as previodsly noted, the employees cannot be barred
from their statutory rights on such a basis. Unless the
employer can provide accurate estimates, it is the duty
of the trier of facts to draw whatever reasonable inferences
can be drawn from the employees' evidence as to the
amount of time spent in these activities in excess of the
productive working time.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

(5) As to waiting time before and after the shift
periods, the special master found that the employees had
not proved that they were in fact forced to wait or that
they were not free to spend such time on their own behalf.
This was also a question of fact and the presence of substantial evidence to support the master's finding precludes
any different result.
Thus we remand the case for the determination of the
amount of walking time involved and the amount of
preliminary activities performed, giving due consideration
to the de minimis doctrine and calculating the resulting
damages under the Act. We h-ve considered the other
points raised by the petitioners but find no errors.
Reversed and remanded.
MR.JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON dissenting, with whom MR. JusTICE FRANKFURTER concurs.

The opinion of the Court in this case has gone far
toward affirming.the Circuit Court of Appeals.

I believe

it should go the rest of the way.
This Court has agreed largely with the Court of Appeals in holding that the District Court was in error in
not accepting the master's findings of fact in the face of
Rule 53 (e) (2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
which requires that: "In an action to be tried without a
jury the court shall accept the master's findings of fact unless clearly erroneous." 28 U. S. C. following § 723 (c).
This Court, accordingly, agrees that the trial court must
accept as findings of fact in this case that the productive
work performed by the employees began and ended at
the regularly scheduled hours of work, on the even quarter-hours; that the time clocks were not controlling in

ANDERSON v. MT. CLEMENS POTTERY CO.
680

BURTON,

695

J., dissenting.

establishing the exact minute of starting or stopping
work; that the time spent in punching time clocks did
not constitute compensable work; and that the "waiting
time," if any, before and after the shift periods was not
compensable time.
This Court also agrees that the District Court was in
error in creating a formula of compensation not in accordance with the findings of the master.
The only questions remaining are whether the moments
spent in walking from the time clocks to the employees'
respective places of productive work within the plant, and
the minutes sometimes spent by some of the employees
in miscellaneous "preliminary activities" before the scheduled starting times, must be added, as a matter of law
"regardless of contrary custom or contract," to the compensatory time of "the statutory week," and, if so, how
such additional time can be proved to have been so used in
order to make it the basis for additional compensation.
The master determined that the time spent in walking
from the time clocksto the places of work was not compensable working time in view of the established custom
in the industry and in the plant. Moreover, the employees were free to take whatever course through the
plant they desired and to stop off at any point to talk
with other employees or to do whatever else they liked.
Some workers came to the time clocks as late as one
minute before the time to reach their place of productive
work. The so-called "preliminary activities" are identified in this case as those of "putting on aprons and overalls, removing shirts, taping or greasing their arms, putting
on finger cots, preparing the equipment for productive
work, turning on switches for lights and machinery, opening windows and assembling and sharpening tools." The
master found that the employees had not offered proof
of the time used for these purposes with a sufficient degree

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

of reliability or accuracy for it to become the basis for
recovery of overtime compensation. The employer would
have still greater difficulty in keeping an accurate record
of the time spent by each employee in such activities.
These activities are of such a nature that the knowledge
of them and the time spent in doing them rests particularly
with the employees themselves. Such activities are of
quite a different character from those made the basis of
compensable time in the coal mine portal-to-portal cases.
Tennessee Coal Co. v. Muscoda Local, 321 U. S. 590;
Jewell Ridge Corp. v. Local, 325 U. S. 161.
Some idea of the shortness of the time and
the smallness of the compensation involved in the "preliminary
activities," in eomparison with the cumbersomeness of
any system for accurately recording the time spent in
doing them, is apparent from the formula to which the
District Court resorted in attempting to reach its solution
of the difficulty. Under that formula, for example, the
District Court found no basis for compensation for such
activities after the scheduled quitting time. Compensable time spent in such activities was limited to a short
period before the scheduled hours of beginning productive
work in the morning and again on resuming work after
lunch. Employees were allowed, or encouraged, to come
to the plant 14 minutes ahead of the quarter hour at
which their scheduled productive work began. The District Court estimated that, on an average, seven minutes
should be allowed, each morning, for punching a time
clock and walking from it to the employee's place of
productive work. As to the "walking time" the court
said, "the preparation even after punching the clock
wouldn't take more than one or one and a half minutes
and to the farthest point in the plant from the time clock
wouldn't take more than 2 minutes." 60 F. Supp. 146,
149. If an employee came to the plant 14 minutes ahead

ANDERSON v. MT. CLEMENS POTTERY CO.
680

BURTON,

697

J., dissenting.

of time, this left a maximum of seven minutes, plus
"walking time," as the basis for a compensatory claim.
The compensatory time in many cases would be much
less. Similarly, under the District Court formula, employees returning to work after lunch were estimated to
consume five minutes in punching the clock and walking
to their places of productive work. This would leave a
maximum of nine minutes, plus "walking time." At that
hour of the day the workers already would be in their
work clothes and there rarely would be more than a minute
or two required for the preliminary activities for which
compensation was claimed.
The amounts at issue, therefore, might not average as
much as five to ten minutes a day a person and would
not apply at all to many of the employees. None of this
time would have been spent at productive work. The
futility of requiring an employer t recordthese minutes
and the unfairness of penalizing him, foi failure to do
a futile thing, by imposing arbitrary allowances for "overtime" and liquidated damages is apparent.
While conditions vary widely and there may be cases
where time records of "preliminary activities" or "walking
time" may be appropriate, yet here we have a case where
the obvious, long established and simple way to compensate an employee for such activities is to recognize
those activities ir. the rate of pay for the particular job.
These items are appropriate for consideration in collective
bargaining.
To sustain the position of the Court in requiring these
additional moments to be recorded and computed as overtime, it is necessary to hold that ,Congress, in using the
word "workweek," meant to give that word a statutory
meaning different from its commonly understood reference
to the working hours between "starting" and "quitting"
time-or from "whistle to whistle." There iq no evidence

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

that Congress meant to redefine this common term and
to set aside long established contracts or customs which
had absorbed in the rate of pay of the respective jobs
recognition of whatever preliminary activities might be
required of the worker bv that particular job. For example, if the plant be one located at an inconvenient place,
or if the workers have to change into working clothes at
the plant, or have to grease or tape their arms before
going to work, these are items peculiar to the job, and
compensation for them easily can be made in the rate
of pay per hour. per week or per piece, and all special
stop-watch recording of them eliminated.
In interpreting "workweek" as applied to the industries
of America, it is important to consider the term as applicable not merely to large and organized industries where
activities may be formalized and easily measured on a
split-second basis. The term must be applied equally
to the hundreds of thousands of small businesses and
small plants employing less than 200, and often less than
50 workers, where the recording of occasional minutes of
preliminary activities and walking time would be highly
impractical and the penalties of liquidated damages for
a neglect to do so would be unreasonable. Such a universal requirement of recording would lead to innumerable
unnecessary minor controversies between employers and
employees. "Workweek" is a simple term used by Congress in accordance with the common understanding of it.
For this Court to include in it items that. have been customarily and generally absorbed in the rate of pay but
excluded from measured working time is not justified in
the absence of affirmative legislative action.
For these reasons, I believe that the judgment of the
Court of Appeals should be affirmed.

