SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
80

85

Syllabus.

of equal protection is found in the actual existence of an
invidious discrimination (Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33;
Skinner v. Oklahoma, 316 U. S. 535), not in the mere possibility that there will be like or similar cases which will be
treated more leniently.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

SEAS SHIPPING CO., INC. v. SIERACKI.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 365.

Argued January 3, 1946.-Decided April 22, 1946.

1. A shipowner's obligation of seaworthiness, traditionally owed by
shipowners to seamen, extends to a stevedore who was injured while
aboard and loading the ship, although employed by an independent
stevedoring contractor engaged by the owner to load the ship.,
Pp. 89-100.
(a) The obligation is essentially a species of liability without
fault and is neither limited by conceptions of negligence nor contractual in character. Pp. 90-94.
(b) It is not confined to seamen who perform the ship's service
under immediate hire of the owner, but extends to those who render
it with his consent or by his arrangement. Pp. 95-97.
(c) For purposes of the liability, a stevedore is a seaman, because
he is doing a seaman's work and incurring a seaman's hazards, and
he is entitled to a seaman's traditional protection. P. 99.
2. By giving longshoremen the rights of compensation afforded by the
Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act and making them exclusive as against the employer, Congress has not withdrawn from longshoremen the protections gained under the Nlerchant Marine Act of 1920 or other protections relating to personal
injury available to them under general maritime law. P. 100.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Counsel for Parties.

328 U. S.

(a) The Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation
Act did not purport to make the stevedore's remedy for compensation against his employer exclusive of remedies against others and
it expressly reserved to the stevedore a right of election to proceed
against third parties responsible for his injury. P. 101.
(b) It did not nullify any right of a stevedore against the owner
of the ship, except possibly when he is hired by the owner. P. 102.
3. A right peculiar to the law of admiralty may be enforced either by
a suit in admiralty or by one on the law side .of the court., P. 88.
4. The liability of a shipowner for failure to maintain a seaworthy
vessel rests upon an entirely different basis from the liability of
contractors and subcontractors who built the ship. Therefore, the
shipowner would not be jointly liable with the builders ,but would
be liable severally. P. 89.
5. When one of several defendants in a suit brings the cause here on
certiorari and the others are not named as respondents or served
in accordance with Rule 38 (3), this Courtis precluded from making any determination concerning the rights or liabilities of the
other defendants. P. 89.
149 F. 2d 98, affirmed.
A stevedore employed by an independent stevedoring
company sued a shipowner, the contractor who built the
ship and a subcontractor for injuries sustained while
working aboard the ship as a result of a latent defect in
a part of the ship. The District Court gave judgment
against the contractor and subcontractor but in favor of
the shipowner. 57 F. Supp. 724. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed as to the shipowner. 149 F. 2d 98.
This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 700. Affirmed,
p. 103.
Thomas E. Byrne, Jr. argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Rowland C. Evans, Jr. and
John B. Shaw.
Abraham E. Freedmanargued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Charles Lakatos.

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The principal question is whether the obligation of seaworthiness, traditionally owed by an owner of a ship to
seamen, extends to a stevedore injured while working
aboard the ship.
Sieracki was employed by an independent stevedoring
company which was under contract to petitioner to load its
ship, the S. S. Robin Sherwood. On December 23, 1942,
he was on the vessel loading cargo. The winch he operated was controlled by a ten-ton boom at number five
hatch. One part of a freight car had been lowered into
the hold. The second part weighed about eight tons.
While it was being put down the shackle supporting the
boom broke at its crown, causing the boom and tackle to
fall and injure respondent.
He sued petitioner and two other companies. These
were the Bethlehem Steel Company, t9 which the Maritime Commission had awarded the contract for constructing the ship, and Bethlehem Sparrow's Point, Inc., which
had built part of the ship under agreement with the steel
company. The District Court found that the shackle had
broken as the result of a defect which had occurred in its
forging. The Bethlehem companies had purchased this
equipment from another concern. Nevertheless the court
held they were negligent in not having tested it adequately
before installing it. But the court considered petitioner
to be under no such obligation to test' and therefore not
negligent. Accordingly, it gave judgment against the two
Bethlehem companies but in favor of petitioner. 57 F.
Supp. 724.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed as to petitioner.
149 F. 2d 98. Accepting the District Court's conclusion
Visual inspection wuuld not have disclosed, the defect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

that it was not negligent, the Court of Appeals was of the
opinion that respondent shou ld recover for the ship's lack
of seaworthiness.2 The opinion emphasized that the decision was novel, noting "statements and assumptions each
way." ' Because of the novelty and importance of the
we granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 700.
question
The finding
that the ship was unseaworthy is not disputed. Petitioner says, first, that the doctrine of unseaworthiness is peculiar to admiralty and cannot be applied
in asuit brought on the law side of the court. It also urges
that in any event the liability may not be extended properly to the benefit of stevedores and longshoremen. And
finally petitioner argues that, if the doctrine is properly so
applicable, its liability is only secondary to that of the
Bethlehem companies, which both courts found to be negligent; and therefore petitioner, the nonnegligent defendant, should not be held "jointly" liable with the negligent
ones.
At the outset we may dismiss the first contention. It is
now well settled that a right peculiar to the law of admiralty may be enforced either by a suit in admiralty or
by one on the law side of the court. CarlislePacking Co. v.
2 The District Court found "that the accident occurred by reason
of unseaworthiness of the vessel." 57.F. Supp. 724, 726.
3The references were to W. J. McCahan Co. v. Stoffel, 41 F. 2d
651, 654 (C. C. A. 3); Cassil v. United States Emergency Fleet Corp.,
289 F. 774 (C. C. A. 9), suggesting liability; and, to the contrary,
Panama Mail S. S. Co. v. Daiis, 79 F. 2d 430 (C. C. A. 3); Bryant v.
Vestland, 52 F. 2d 1078 (C. C. A. 5) ; Luckenbach S. S. Co. v. Buzynski, 19 F. 2d 871 (C. C. A, 5), rev'd on another ground, 277 U. S. 226;
The Howell, 273 F. 513 (C. C. A. 2); The Student, 243 F. 807 (C. C.
A. 4); Jeffries v. DeHart, 102 F. 765 (C. C. A. 3); The Mercier, 5 F.
Supp. 511, affirmed, 72 F. 2d 1008 (C. C. A. 9).
' See in addition to the authorities cited by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 149 F. 2d at 102; Decision (1945) 45 Col. L. Rev. 957;
(1945) 59 Harv. L. Rev. 127; (1946) 19 Temp. L. Q. 336, 339.

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

Opinion of the Court.

Sandanger,259 U. S. 255, 259; Garrett v. Moore-McCormack Co., 317 U. S. 239, 243-244; Thornes v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 37 F. Supp. 616.1
Equally unavailable is the contention concerning the
secondary character of petitioner's liability. That liability, if it exists, not only sounds in tort,' but rests upon an
entirely different basis from that upon which recovery has
been had against the Bethlehem companies. Such a liability therefore would be not joint but several and the
judgment of the Court of Appeals obviously went on this
view. Moreover the contention necessarily affects the
Bethlehem companies, at any rate in relation to possible
claim of indemnity by petitioner. They have not been
named as respondents here or served in accordance with
Rule 38 (3). Consequently we are precluded from making
any determination concerning their rights or liabilities,
with relation either to petitioner or to respondent:
The nub of real controv 'rsy lies in the question whether
the shipowner's obligation of seaworthiness extends to
longshoremen injured while doing the ship's work aboard
but employed by an independent stevedoring contractor
whom the owner has hired to load or unload the ship.
5
Nothing in 28 U. S. C. § 41 (3) is to the contrary. The section
provides that federal district courts shall have jurisdiction "of all
civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, saving to suitors
in all cases the right of a common-law remedy where the common law
is competent to give it . . . ." This does not mean that where suit is
brought at law the court is restrioted to the enforcement of commonlaw rights. Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372, 384;
Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 387-388; Panama R. Co. v.
Vasquez, 271 U. S. 557, 560-561. "When a cause of action in admiralty is asserted in a court of law its substance is unchanged."
PanamaAgencies Co. v. Franco, 111 F. 2d 263, 266.
6 Cf. text infra; Cortes v. Baltimore Insular Line, 287 U. S. 367;
Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

There could be no question of petitioner's liability for
respondent's injuries, incurred as they were here, if he had
been in petitioner's employ rather than hired by the stevedoring company. That an owner is liable to indemnify a
seaman for an injury caused by the unseawor'thiness of
the vessel or its appurtenant appliances and equipment
has been settled law in this country ever since The Osceola,
189 U. S. 158. Mahnich v. Southern S. S. Co., 321 U. S.
96, 99, and authorities cited. And the liability applies as
well when the-ship is moored at a dock as when it is at sea.
See, e. g., The Edith Godden, 23 F. 43; Wm.Johnson &
Co. v. Johansen,86 F. 886; The Waco, 3 F. 2d 476.
Petitioner insists, however, that the obligation flows
from, and is circumscribed by the existence of, the contract
between the owner of the vessel and the seaman. Accordingly, since there was no such contract here, it says respondent cannot recover. Respondent is equally insistent that the owner cannot slough off liability to those who
do the vessel's work by bringing an intermediary contracting employer between himself and those workers. In
respondent's view the liability is an incident of the maritime service rendered, not merely of the immediate contractual relation of employment, and has its roots in the
risks that service places upon maritime workers and in the
policy of the law to secure them indemnity against such
hazards.
Obviously the norm of the liability has been historically
and still is the case of the seaman under contract with the
vessel's owner. This is because the work of maritime
service has been done largely by such persons. But it does
not follow necessarily from this fact that the liability
either arose exclusively from the existence of a contractual
relation or is confined to situations in which one exists.

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

Opinion of the Court.

The origins are perhaps unascertainable.' But that fact
in itself may be some evidence that contract alone is
neither the sole source of the liability nor its ultimate
boundary. For to assume this would be at once to project
ideas of contract backward into centuries governed more
largely than our own by notions of status,8 and to exclude
from the protection all who do the work of the sea without
benefit of contract with the owner. It may be doubted,
for example, that he has ever been able to escape liability
to impressed seamen, in whose cases to speak of "contract"
would only rationalize a responsibility imposed regardless
of consensual relationship. And it would hardly seem
consistent with the obligation's benevolent purposes 9 that
7 It has been suggested that "the seaman's right of indemnity for
injuries caused by defective appliances or unseaworthiness seems to
have been a development from his privilege to abandon a vessel improperly fitted out." The Arizona v. Anelich, 298 U. S. 110, 121,
note 2; Mahnich v. Southern S. S. Co., 321 U. S. 96, 99; cf. The
Qaceola, 189 U. S. 158.
It does not follow that the right of abandonment would not exist if
the seaman were hired by another at the instance of the vessel's owner,
and no decision to which we have been referred so holds.
s See Maine, Ancient Law (1861).
For a modern criticism, see
Pound, Interpretations of Legal History (1930) 53 et seq.
"An excellent summary is given by Parker, J., in The State of
Maryland, 85 F. 2d 944, 945:
"Seamen are the wards of admiralty, and the policy of the
maritime law has ever been to see that they are accorded proper
protection by the vessels on which they serve. In early days,
this protection was sufficiently accorded by the enforcement of
the right.of 'maintenance and cure.' Vessels and their appliances
were of comparatively simple construction, and seamen were in
quite as good position ordinarily to judge of the seaworthiness
of a vessel as were her owners ....

"With the advent of steam navigation, however, it was realized,
at least in this country, that 'maintenance and cure' did not afford
to injured seamen adequate compensation in all cases for injuries

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

the owner might nullify it by the device of having all who
man the ship hired by others willing to furnish men for
such service at sea or ashore.
It is, true that the liability for unseaworthiness is often
said to be an incident of the seaman's contract. But in all
instances which have come to our attention this has been
in situations where such a contract existed.10 Necessarily
sustained. Vessels were no longer the simple sailing ships, of
whose seaworthiness the sailor was an adequate judge, but were
full of complicated and dangerous machinery, the operation of
which required the use of many and varied appliances and a
high degree of technical knowledge. The seaworthiness of the
vessel could be ascertained only upon an examination of this
machinery and appliances by skilled experts. It was accordingly
held that the duty of the vessel and her owners to the seaman,
in this .iew age of navigation, extended beyond mere 'maintenance
and cure,' which had been sufficient in the simple age of sailing
ships; that the owners owed to the seamen the duty of furnishing a seaworthy vessel and safe and proper appliances in good
order and condition; and that for failure to discharge such duty
there was liability on the part of the vessel and her owners to a
seaman suffering injury as a result thereof. The Osceola, 189
U. S. 158, 175 . . . . In the Edith Godden (D. C.) 23 F. 43, 46,
which dealt with the case' of a seaman injured by a.defective
derrick, Judge Addison Brown pointed out that in dealing with
injuries sustained by the use of modern appliances ':t is more
reasonable and equitable to apply the analogies of the municipal
law in regard to the obligation of owners and masters, rather
than to extend the limited rule of responsibility under the ancient
maritime law to these new, modern conditions, for which those
limitations were never designed.'"
See, in addition to the cited opinion of Judge Brown, his opinion
in The City of Alexandria, 17 F. 390. See also Storgard v. France &.
Canada S. S. Corp., 263 F. 545, 547-548; The H. A. Scandrett, 87 F.
2d 708, 711.
10In all of the cases cited or found, except perhaps the stevedore
cases cited in note 3, where the cause of action has been based upon
unseaworthiness, there was a contract. The "implied warranty" on
the part of a shipowner that a ship is seaworthy has been read not only
into contracts made with seamen, Hamilton v. United States, 268 F.

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

Opinion of the Court.

in such a setting the statement could have no reference to
any issue over liability in the absence of such a contractual
relation. Its function rather has been to refute other suggested restrictions which might be held to apply on the
facts. Most often perhaps these have been limitations
arising from the erroneous idea that the liability is
founded in negligence and therefore may be defeated by
the common-law defenses of contributory negligence,
assumption of risk and the fellow-servant rule. Mahnich
v. Southern S. S. Co., supra; cf. Carlisle Packing Co. v.
Sandanger,259 U. S.255.
Because rationalizing the liability as one attached by
law to the relation of shipowner and seaman, where this
results from contract, may have been thought useful to
negative the importation of those common-law tort limitations does not mean, however, that the liability is itself
contractual or that it may not extend to situations where
the ship's work is done by others not in such an immediate
relation of employment to the owner. That the liability
may not be either so founded or so limited would seem
indicated by the stress the cases uniformly place upon its
relation, both in character and in scope, to the hazards of
marine service which unseaworthiness places on the men
who perform it. These, together with their helplessness
to ward off such perils and the harshness of forcing them
to shoulder alone the resulting personal disability and loss,
have been thought to justify and to require putting their
burden, in so far as it is measurable in money, upon the
15, 21, but also into contracts for the carriage of goods by sea, Bradley
Fertilizer Co. v. The Edwin I. Morrison, 153 U. S. 199, 210-211, although this liability has been modified by the Harter Act, 27 Stat.
445, 46 U. S. C. §§ 189-195; and in rare instances perhaps also into
contracts with passengers, cf. Muise v. Gorton-Pew Vessels Co., 1938
A. M. C. 714, 718; Rainey v. New York & P. S. S. Co., 216 F. 449,
453; Robinson, Admiralty (1939) 306, note 109.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

owner regardless of his fault." Those risks are avoidable
by the owner to the extent that they may result from negligence. And beyond this he is in position, as the worker
is not, to distribute the loss in the shipping community
which receives the service and should bear its cost.
These and other considerations arising from the hazards
which maritime service places upon men who perform it,
rather than any consensual basis of responsibility, have
been the paramount influences dictating the ship}wner's
liability for unseaworthiness as well as its absollte character. It is essentially a species of liability without fault,
analogous to other well kniown instances in-oqr a. IDerived from and shaped to meet the hazards which performing the service imposes, the liability is neither limited by
conceptions of negligence nor contractual in character.
Mahnich v. Southern S. S. Co., supra; Atlantic Transport
11Contributory negligence has never been a defense in suits brought
by seamen to recover for injuries due to a ship's unseaworthiness but
has been applied merely in mitigation of damages. Socony-Vacuum
Oil Co. v. Smith, 305 U. S. 424, 429; The Arizona v. Anelich. 298 U. S.
110, 122, and cases cited. And in The Max Morris, 137 U. S. 1, the
Court held that in a suit for personal injuries brought in admiralty
by a stevedore the admiralty rule of divided damages was applicable.
It was said in The Arizona v. Anelich, at 122-123, with respect to the
defense of assumption of risk: "The seaman assumes the risk normally
incident to his perilous calling . . ., but it has often been pointed out
that the nature of his calling, the rigid discipline to which he is subject, and the practical difficulties of his avoiding exposure to risks of
unseaworthiness and defective appliances, make such a defense . . .
peculiarly inapplicable to suits by seamen to recover for the negligent
failure to provide a seaworthy ship and safe appliances." As to the
fellow-servant nile, see Mahnich v. Southern S. S. Co., 321 U. S. 96,
100-103; The Frank and Willie, 45 F. 494, 495-496.
In this connection is pertinent also the frequently stated rule that
the obligation of a shipowner to provide a seaworthy ship is nondelegable. See, e. g., Lord and Sprague, Cases on the Law of Admiralty
(1926) 237, note 4; The Rolph, 299 F. 52, 55; Globe S. S. Co. v. Moss,
245 F. 54, 55.

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U, S. 52; Carlisle Packing Co. v.
Sandanger, supra. It is a form of absolute duty owing to
all within the range of its humanitarian policy.
On principle we agree with the Court of Appeals that
this policy is not confined to seamen who perform the
ship's service under immediate hire to the owner, but extends to those who render it with his consent or by his
arrangement. All the considerations which gave birth
to the liability and have shaped its absolute character
dictate that the owner should not be free to nullify it by
parcelling out his operations to intermediary employers
whose sole business is to take over portions of the ship's
work or by other devices which would strip the men performing its service of their historic protection. The risks
themselves arise from and are incident in fact to the service, not merely to the contract pursuant to which it is done.
The brunt of loss cast upon the worker and his dependents
is the same, and is as inevitable, whether his pay comes
directly from the shipowner or only indirectly through
another with whom he arranges to have it done. The
latter ordinarily has neither right nor opportunity to discover or remove the cause of the peril and it is doubtful,
therefore, that he owes to his employees, with respect to
these hazards, thl employer's ordinary duty to furnish a

safe place to work, unless perhaps in cases where the perils
are obvious or his own action creates them."

If not, no

12 In Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, the stevedoring company was held liable to its employee for negligence in failing
to furnish a safe place to work. This consisted in its failure to secure
properly a beam which supported hatch covers removed by it in the
loading process. The libelant joined the shipowner with the stevedoring contractor, both being represented by the same proctors and
advocates. The stevedoring company acquitted the shipowner and the
libel was dismissed as to it. The case, in view of these circumstances,
is not authority for the view that the stevedoring company is liable
to the stevedore, under the employer's obligation to furnish a safe

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

such obligation exists unless it rests upon the owner of the
ship. Moreover, his ability to distribute the loss over the

industry is not lessened by the fact that the men who do
the work are employed and furnished by another. Historically the work of loading and unloading is the work

of the ship's service, performed until recent times by members of the crew. Florez v. The Scotia, 35 F. 916; The Gilbert Knapp, 37 F. 209, 210; The Seguranca, 58 F. 908, 909.
That the owner seeks to have it done with the advantages

of more modern divisions of labor does not minimize the
worker's hazard and should not nullify his protection.
Every consideration, therefore, giving rise to the liability and shaping its character bespeaks inclusion of men
intermediately employed to do this work, save only that
which is relevant to consent as a basis for responsibility.
We do not think this is the ultimate basis of the liability

where the seaman hired by the vessel does the work.

It

is only the source of the relation which furnishes the occasion for the liability, attached by law to performance of
the service, to come into play. Not the owner's consent
to liability, but his consent to performance of the service
defines its boundary. That this is given by contract with
the worker's employer rather than with the worker himself
does not defeat the responsibility.
working place, for the hazards secured against by the shipowner's
obligation of seaworthiness. It holds only that the stevedoring company is liable for its own negligence.
It has frequently been said that a shipowner owes to stevedores
the duty of providing a safe place to work, see, e. g., The Joseph B.
Thomas, 86 F. 658, 660; The No. 34. 25 F. 2d 602, 604, but cf. Willis v.
Lykes Bros. S. S. Co., 23 F. 2d 488, 489, although the duty has at times
been qualified by statements that it does not extend to latent defects
that "a reasonable inspection by the shipowner or his agents would not
show." Wholey v. British & Foreign S. S. Co., 158 F. 379, 380,
affirmed, 171 F. 399.

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

Opinion of the Court.

Accordingly we think the Court of Appeals correctly
held that the liability arises as an incident, not merely of
the seaman's contract, but of performing-the ship's service
with the owner's consent. For this view, in addition to
the stated considerations of principle, the court rightly
found support in the trend and policy of this Court's decisions, especially in InternationalStevedoring Co..v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50; Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek,
234 U. S.52; and Uravic v. Jarka Co., 282 U. S. 234.
The Haverty case is of special importance. The Court
of Appeals said, with reference to its bearing and that of
the Imbrovek decision: "And so an injury to a stevedore
comes within the classification of a marine tort. Atlantic
Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52. It seems, therefore, that when a man is performing a function essential
to maritime service on board a ship the fortuitous circumstances of his employment by the shipowner or a stevedoring contractor should not determine the measure of his
rights. This is the very basis on which the Jones Act 13
was held applicable to give redress to an injured stevedore
in International Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty . . . ." 149
F. 2d 98, 101.
The conclusions are sound, notwithstanding the cases
are distinguishable in their specific rulings. From that
fact it does not follow that either those rulings or the
grounds upon which they went are irrelevant or without
force for our problem. Jt is true that negligence was the
basis of recovery in both cases and that in each the stevedoring contractor was held responsible. But it was of the
gist of the jurisdictional question presented by the libel
13 Merchant Marine Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688,
extending to "seamen" the benefits of the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, 45 U. S. C. § 51 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

in Imbrovek 14 that stevedores injured while working
aboard the ship, though not employed by its owner, are
within the traditional protections afforded to seamen by
admiralty and that "the fortuitous circumstance" of their
employment by one other than the owner to do the ship's
work not only did not remove them from those protections,
but brought their employers within the protection of the
liability to supply them."5
The same underlying considerations were controlling in
the H ierty decision, although the liability asserted arose
underiin- Act of Congress and the Court cast its ruling in
terrw of legislative intent.. The only fulcrum for its
action was the statute's undefined use of the term "seamen" ih conferring the right of recovery under the Federal
Employeis' Liability Act for the employer's negligence.
41 Stat. 988, 1007. Recognizing that for most purposes
"stevedores are not 'seamen,' " e and relying upon Imbro14 It was argued that the wrong, although taking place aboard.ship
in navigable waters, was not of maritime character and hence nof
within the admiralty jurisdiction of the District Court.
18In answer to the contention that the service was not maritime
and hence the independently employed stevedore's claim was not
within the admiralty jurisdiction, the Court said: "Upon its proper
performance depend in large measure the safe carrying of the cargo
and the safety of the ship itself; and it is a service absolutely necessary
to enable the ship to discharge its maritime duty. Formerly the work
was done by the ship's crew; but, owing to the exigencies of increasing
commerce and the demand for rapidity and special skill, it has become
a specialized service devolving upon a class 'as clearly identified with
maritime affairs as are the mariners'." 234 U. S. 52, 61-62.
16 The Court of Appeals in this case likewise carefully limited its
ruling in recognition of the fact that stevedores are not entitled to
all the protections a seaman may claim.
It is in relation to liability for personal injury or death arising in
the course of his employment aboard the ship that the policy of our
law has been most favorable to the, stevedore's claims. Whether or
not that policy has been influenced by the vicissitudes experienced in

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

Opinion of the Court.

vek, the Court again stressed that "the work upon which
the plaintiff was engaged was a maritime service formerly
rendered by the ship's crew," and that the statute's policy
was to afford compensation for injuries "as properly part
of the cost of the business," that is, of the maritime service
rendered, rather than by the -capricious circumstance of
employment "'by a -stevedore rather than by the ship.!'
And the Uravic decision rejected an equally capricious
discrimination based upon the nationality of the vessel's
.jj
I
flag..
Running through all of these cases, therefore, to sustainthe stevedore's recovery is a common core Of policy which
has been controlling, although the specific issue has varied
from a question of admiralty jurisdiction to one of coverage under statutory liability within the admiralty field.
It is that for injuries incurred while working on board the
ship in navigable waters the stevedore is entitled to the
seaman's traditional and statutory protections, regardless
of the fact that he is employed immediately. by another
than the owner."7 For these purposes he is, in short, a seaman because he is doing a seaman's work and incurring a
seaman's hazards. Moreover, to make the policy effective,
his employer is brought within the liability which is peculiar to the employment rqlation to the extent that and
because he also undertakes the service of the ship.
finding protection for himas a result of the Jensen decision, 244 U. S.
205; Davis v. Department of Labor, 317 U. S. 249, 252-253, the
reasons underlying the policy are perhaps more nearly identical in
this application, as between sedmen and longshuremen, than those
supporting other rights of the 'seaman, such as that to maintenance
and cure.
17In this case we are not concerned with the question whether the
same policy extends to injuries incurred ashore by a stevedore engaged in the same work, a matter which is relevant however in Swan-.
son v. Marra Brothers, Inc., ante, p. 1. Cf. O'Donnell v. Great Lakes
Co., 318 U. S. 36.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

It would be anomalous if such a policy, effective to
control such issues, were less effective when the question
is simply whether the stevedore is entitled to the traditional securities afforded by the law of the sea to men -,.ho
do the ship's work. Nor does it follow from the fact that
the stevedore gains protections against his employer appropriate to the employment relation as such, that he
loses or never acquires against the shipowner the protections, not peculiar to that relation, which the law imposes
as incidental to the performance of that service. Among
these is the obligation of seaworthiness. It is peculiarly
and exclusively the obligation of the owner. It is one he
cannot delegate.'" By the same token it is one he cannot
contract away as to any workman within the scope of its
policy. As we have said, he iiat liberty to conduct his
business by securing the advantages of specialization in
labor and skill brought about by modern divisions of labor.
He is not at liberty by doing this to discard his traditional
responsibilities. That the law permits him to substitute
others for responsibilities peculiar to the employment relation does not mean that he can thus escape the duty it
imposes of more general scope. To allow this would be,
in substantial effect, to convert the ancient liability for
maritime tort into a purely contractual responsibility.
This we are not free to do.
It remains to consider one other argument, namely,
that the Haverty decision has been overruled, in effect, by
the enactment of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act of March 4, 1927, 44 Stat. 1424,
33 U. S. C. § 901 ff., and therefore the effect of that decision
as furnishing any support for including longshoremen
within the owner's obligation of seaworthiness has been
IsSee note 11.

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

Opinion of the Court.

nullified. The argument is that by giving longshoremen
the rights of compensation afforded by that Act against
the employer and making them exclusive, Congress .has
withdrawn from them not only the protections gained by
virtue of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920 under the
Haverty decision, but also all other protections relating
to personal injury which otherwise might be available to'
them under the general maritime law. In other words,
it is claimed that the remedies afforded by the Longshoremen's legislation are exclusive of all other remedies
for injuries incurred aboard ship, whether against the
employer or others.
This view cannot be accepted. Apart from the fact
that the Uravic decision was rendered by a unanimous
Court some three years after the Longshoremen's and
Harbor Workers' Act was adopted, with a like result in
Jamison v. Encarnacion, 281 U. S. 635,"9 the compelling
answer is that Congress by that Act not only did not purport to make the stevedore's remedy for compensation
against his employer exclusive of remedies against others.
It expressly reserved to the stevedore a right of election to
proceed against third persons responsible for his injury o
and, in case of his election to receive compensation, it
provided for assignment of his rights against third persons
to his employer, binding the latter to remit to him any
19Both

cases were determined on facts which arose prior to enactment of the statute.
20 Section 33 (a) of the Act provides: "If on account of a disability
or death for which compensation is payable under this Act the person
entitled to such compensation determines that some person other than
the employer is liable in damages, he may elect, by giving notice to
the deputy commissioner in such manner as the commission may provide, to receive such compensation or to recover damages against
such third person." 44 Stat. 1440, 33 U. S. C. § 933 (a)

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

excess of the recovery over the compensation, expenses of
recovery, etc.'
We may take it therefore that -Congress intended the
remedy of compensation to be exclusive as against the
employer. See Swanson v. Marra Brothers, Inc., ante,
p. 1; 33 U. S. C. § 905. But we cannot assume, in face of
the Act's explicit provisions, that it intended this remedy
to nullify or affect others against third persons. Exactly
the opposite is true. The legislation therefore did not nullify any right of the longshoreman against the owner of
the ship, except possibly in the instance, presumably rare,
where he may be hired by the owner. The statute had no
purpose or effect to alter the stevedore's rights as against
any but his employer alone. Beyond that consequence,
moreover, we think it had none to alter either the basic
policy or the rationalization of the Haverty decision. Because the recovery under the Merchant Marine Act of
1920 was limited to the employer, the necessary effect of
the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act, likewise
so limited, was to substitute its remedy for that provided
under the preexisting legislation and the Haverty decision's construction of it. There was none to nullify the
basic and generally applicable policy of that decision
or to affect the validity of its foundations in other
applications.
It may be added that, beyond the applicability of those
considerations to sustain the stevedore's right of recovery
See 33 U. S. C. §§ 933 (b) to (g) inclusive. As to the right of
election and the right to receive compensation or the amount of the
recovery against third persons, whichever is greater, see Chapman v.
Hoage, 296 U. S. 526, 529, Marlin v. Cardillo, 95 F. 2d 112; Grasso
v. Lorentzen, 149 F. 2d 127; The Pacific Pine, 31 F. 2d 152; Cupo v.
Isthmian S. S. Co., 56 F. Snpp. 45.
The statute did not cover members of a crew of a vessel, thereby
saving to them their preexisting rights under the Merchant Marine
Act of 1920. 33 U. S. C- § 902 (3). See South Chicago Coal & Dock
Co. v. Bassett, 309 U. S. 251, 256-257.
21

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

for breach of the owner's obligation of seaworthiness, are
others to support the statutory policy of giving his employer recovery over against the owner when the latter's
breach of duty casts upon the employer the burden of paying compensation. These may furnish additional reason
for our conclusion, With them however we are not immediately concerned.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, MR. JUSTICE BURTON

and

I think the judgment should be reversed.
Respondent, the employee of a stevedoring company,
which had contracted with petitioner to load its vessel
lying in navigable waters, was injured while go employed,
in consequence of the failure of a shackle, a part of the
ship's tackle, due to its hidden defects. The courts below
have found that two other defendants were liable for negligence in furnishing the defective shackle. The courts
were unable to find that the injury was attributable to
any negligent act or omission of the vessel or its owner.
But the Court of Appeals below and this Court have sustained a recovery against petitioner on the novel ground
that the owner is an insurer against injury caused by the
unseaworthiness of the vessel or its appliances to a maritime worker on board, although not a member of the crew
or the ship's company, and not employed by the vessel.
The Court has thus created a new right in maritime
workers, not members of the crew of a vessel, which has not
hitherto been recognized by the maritime law or by any
statute. For this I can find no warrant in history or
precedent, nor any support in policy or in practical needs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

The liability of a vessel or its owfier to members of the
crew, as an insurer of seaworthiness of the vessel and its
tackle, was not recognized by the maritime law of England
until established by statute. Merchant Shipping Act, 39
& 40 Vict. c. 80, § 5; 57 & 58 Vict. c. 60, § 458. In this
country the right of the seaman to demand, in addition to
maintenance and cure, indemnity for injuries resulting
from unseaworthinessr was first recognized by this Court
in The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158. In later cases it has been
established that due diligence of the owner does not relieve
him from this obligation. See The Arizona v. Anelich, 298
U. S. 110, 121; Socony-Vacuum Co. v. Smith, 305 U. S.
424, 429, 432; Mahnich v. Southern S. S. Co., 321 U. S. 96,
100, and cases cited; The Neptuno, 30 F. 925; The Frank
& Willie, 45 F. 494; The Julia Fowler, 49 F. 277; cf. The
Edwin I. Morrison, 153 U. S. 199, 210.
The liability of the vessel or owner for maintenance and
cure, regardless of their negligence, was established long'
before our modern conception of contract. But it, like the
liability to indemnify the seaman for injuries resulting
from unseaworthiness, has been universally recognized
as an obligation growing out of the status of the seaman
and his peculiar relationship to the vessel, and as a feature
of the maritime law compensating or offsetting the special
hazards and disadvantages to which they who go down
to sea in ships are subjected. They are exposed to the
,perils of the sea and all the risks of unseaworthiness, with
little opportunity to avoid those dangers or to discover
and protect themselves from them or to prove who is
responsible for the unseaworthiness causing the injury.
For these reasons the seaman has been given a special
status in the maritime law as the ward of the admiralty,
entitled to special protection of the law not extended to
land employees. Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275,
282--3; 'The Arizona v. Anelich, supra, 122, 123; Calmar

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

S. S. Corp. v. Taylor, 303 U. S. 525; Socony-Vacuum Co. v.
Smith, supra, 430; Aguilar v. Standard Oil Co., 318 U. S.
724. See also Judge Addison Brown in The City of Alexandria,17 F. 390, 394, et seq. Justice Story said in Reed v.
Canfield, Fed. Cas. No. 11,641, 1 Sumn. 195, 199: "Seamen are in some sort co-adventurers upon the voyage; and
lose their wages upon casualties, which do not affect artisans at home. They share the fate of the ship in cases of
shipwreck and capture. They are liable to different rules
of discipline and sufferings from landsmen. The policy
of the maritime law, for great, and wise, and benevolent
purposes, has built up peculiar rights, privileges, duties,
and liabilities in the sea-service, which do not belong to
home pursuits."
It is for these reasons that throughout the long history
of the maritime law the right to maintenance and cure,
and later the right to indemnity for injuries attributable
to unseaworthiness, have been confined to seamen. Longshoremen and harbor workers are in a class very different
from seamen, and one not calling for the creation of extraordinary obligations of the vessel or its owner in their
favor, more than other classes of essentially land workers.
Unlike members of the crew of a vessel they do not go to
sea; they are not subject to the rigid discipline of the sea;
they are not prevented by law or ship's discipline from
leaving the vessel on which they may be employed; they
have the same recourse as land workers to avoid the hazards to which they are exposed, to ascertain the cause of
their injury and to prove it in court.
Congress has recognized this difference in their status
from that of seamen. Although it has given extensive
consideration to it in enacting the Longshoremen's and
Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, 33 U. S. C. § 901 ff.,
in 1927, and again, upon its revision in 1934 and 1938,
in no instance did Congress extend to longshoremen and

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

328 U. 81

harbor workers any of the special rights or privileges conferred on seamen by the maritime law. In fact Congress,
by the Longshoremen's Act, cut off from longshoremen
and harbor workers the right extended to them by judicial
construction of the Jones Act, 46 U. S. C. § 688, International Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50; Uravic v.
Jarka Co., 282 U. S. 234, to enjoy the same right of recovery from the vessel or owner as seamen for negligent injuries sustained while working on navigable waters.
Swanson v. Marra Brothers, ante, p. 1. While the Act
gave to longshoremen and stevedores a right to compensation against their employer, it neither conferred upon
nor withheld from them any rights of recovery for such injuries against third persons. It can hardly be said that the
failure of Congress thus to enlarge the rights of longshoremen, so as to make them comparable to those of seamen, is a recognition of existing rights against third
persons arising from the warranty of seaworthiness which
no court has ever recognized* and which grows out of a
status which longshoremen have never occupied.
There are no considerations of policy or practical need
which should lead us, by judicial fiat, to do that which
Congress, after a full study of the subject, has failed to do.
Wherever the injury occurs on navigable waters, Congress
has given to longshoremen and harbor workers substantial rights to compensation against their employer for in*The two cases relied upon by the Circuit Court of Appeals do not
lend support to its decision. In Cassil v. United States Emergency
Fleet Corp., 289 F. 774, recovery was sought on the ground that the
vessel was negligent, and the court merely said that there could be no
claim against the vessel unless it was unseaworthy. The court seems
to have assumed that a recovery for unseaworthiness could be had
only if negligence was shown. See cases cited in Mahnich v. Southern
S. S. Co., 321 U. S. 96, 100. In W. J. McCahan Co. v. Stoffel, 41 F. 2d
651, a longshoreman was allowed recovery on the ground of negligence
of one of the ship's employees.

SEAS SHIPPING CO. v. SIERACKI.
85

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

juries inflicted without his fault. South Chicago Co. v.
Bassett, 309 U. S. 251. It has lefL them free to pursue
their remedy for injuries resulting from negligence of
third parties, including in this case the vessel and the
furnishers of the defedtive shackle. Where the injury
occurs on land they are free to pursue the remedy afforded
by local law. State IndustrialCommission v. Nordenholt
Corp., 259 U. S.263; Smith & Son v. Taylor, 276 U. S.
179; Swanson v. Marra Brothers, ante, p. 1. There
would seem to be no occasion for us to be more generous
than Congress has been by presenting to them paid-up
accident. insurance policies at the expense of a vessel by
which they have not been employed, and which has not
failed in any duty of due care toward them. Apparently
under the decision now rendered the maritime worker
employed by a vessel on navigable waters, but not a member of the crew, would enjoy rights of recovery not accorded to.members of the crew. For he would be entitled
to indemnity upon the warranty of seaworthiness as are
members of the crew and also to the benefits of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Act from which members
of the crew are excluded. See South Chicago Co. v.
Bassett, supra, 255-6.
Nor is the rule now announced to be justified as a modern and preferred mode of distributing losses inflicted
without fault. Congress, in adopting the Longshoremen's
Act, has chosen the mode of distribution in the case of
longshoremen and harbor workers. By 33 U. S. C. § 901
et seq. it has given to them compensation for their injuries,
irrespective of fault. Section 933 provides that if a stevedore entitled to compensation elects to recover damages
against a third person, the employer must pay as compensation a sum equal to the excess of the amount which the
commission determines is payable on account of the
injury over the amount recovered against the third person.

