SMITH v. HOBOKEN R. CO.

123

Syllabus.

SMITH, TRUSTEE, ET AL. v. HOBOKEN RAILROAD,
WAREHOUSE AND STEAMSHIP CONNECTING
CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 384. Argued December 11, 1945.-Decided April 29, 1946.
1. The provision of § 70 (b) of the Bankruptcy Act that "an express
covenant that an assignment by operation of law or the bankruptcy
of a specified party thereto or of either party shall terminate the
lease or give the other party an election to terminate the same shall
be enforceable" is applicable to railroad reorganizations under § 77
of the Bankruptcy Act. Pp. 126-128.
2. The provision of § 70 (b) of the Bankruptcy Act, authorizing
enforcement against a bankruptcy trustee of an express covenant
of forfeiture, embraces a covenant applicable to any "transfer" of
the premises "in any proceeding, whether at law or in equity or
otherwise," to which the lessee is a party, and "whereby any of
the rights, duties and obligations" of the lessee are "transferred,
encumbered, abrogated or in any manner altered" without the
lessor's consent. P. 128.
3. Whether, in a proceeding for reorganization of an interstate railroad under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, enforcement against the
trustee of a covenant of forfeiture in a lease of railroad tracks and
facilities would be "consistent with the provisions" of § 77, within
the meaning of § 77 (1), presents problems primarily for consideration and decision by the Interstate Commerce Commission; and
the reorganization court should not have declared a forfeiture of the
lease until the questions had been passed upon by the Commission.
Pp. 128-129.
(a) Whether the public interest requires that the line be operated by the lessee rather than the lessor presents a question for the
Commission under §1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Act.
P. 130.
(b) It is the function of the Commission under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act to prepare the pian of reorganization of the debtor company; and, if the reorganization court decrees a forfeiture in
advance of consideration of the problem by the Commission, it
would interfere with the functions entrusted to the Commission
under § 77. Pp. 130, 132.
150 F. 2d 921, reversed.

•124

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

In proceedings for the reorganization of a railroad under
§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, the reorganization court
granted respondent's motion to terminate a lease in which
the debtor company was lessee. 56 F. Supp. 187. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 150 F. 2d 921. This
Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 707. Reversed,
p. 133.
James D. Carpenter argued the cause and filed a brief
for Smith, Trustee, petitioner.
Parker McCollester argued the cause for the Hoboken
Manufacturers Railroad Company et al., petitioners.
With him on the brief was Edward A. Markley.
Edward J. O'Mara argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was John J. Hickey.
Solicitor General McGrath, Assistant Attorney General
Berge, Edward Dumbauld, Daniel W. Knowlton and
Edward M. Reidy filed a brief for the United States and
the Interstate Commerce Commission, as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Hoboken Manufacturers Railroad Co. (the debtor)
operates a terminal switching railroad along the waterfront at Hoboken, New Jersey. It is a common carrier
subject to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act.
24 Stat. 379, 41 Stat. 474, 49 Stat. 543, 54 Stat. 899, 49
U. S. C. § 1. The major part of its right-of-way and line
of railroad is held by it under a 99-year lease from respondent dated June 19, 1906.1 In 1943 the debtor filed a petiI

The debtor has two additional pieces of land under 99-year leases,

dated June 19, 1906, from the parent company of the respondent.

By

a tie-in indenture the debtor agreed that these leases should terminate

SMITH v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
123

Opinion of the Court.

tion for reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act
(49 Stat 1969, 53 Stat. 1406, 11 U. S. C. § 205) in the
Distr1c4Court for the District of New Jersey. The petition was approved and petitioner Smith was appointed
trustee. Shortly thereafter respondent notified the trustee that it would petition the reorganization court for
termination of the lease. A hearing was held and decision
reserved. While the matter was under advisement the
trustee on order of the court adopted the lease. Thereafter the reorganization court granted respondent's motion
to terminate the lease holding that the appointment of
the trustee was a breach of the terms of the lease entitling
the lessor to reenter.2 56 F. Supp. 187. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed. 150 F. 2d 921. The case is
here on a petition.for a writ of certiorari which we granted
because of the importance of the problem in the administration of the Interstate Commerce Act and the Bankruptcy Act.
The provision of the lease upon which the forfeiture was
decreed reads as follows:
"The Lessee shall not and will not sell, assign or
transfer this lease or underlet the demised premises,
or any part thereof, or the rights and privileges, or
any of them, hereby granted, without the previous
consent of the Lessor expressed by endorsement on
this lease made in pursuance of authority granted by
resolution of the board of directors of the Lessor . . .
This covenant shall also apply to any unauthorized
sale or transfer thereof or underletting of the demised
premises, or any part thereof, or of the said rights and
on the exipiration or earlier termination of the main lease mentioned
in the opinion. What we say in the opinion also governs these tie-in
leases.
2 Notic- was also given by respondent's parent company for termination of the tie-in leases mentioned in note 1, supra. The order of
the District Court also terminated these leases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

privileges, or any of them, whether made by the
Lessee or in any proceeding, whether at law or in
equity or otherwise, to which the Lessee may be a
party, whereby any of the rights, duties and obligations of the Lessee shall or may be transferred, encumbered, abrogated or in any manner altered, without
the consent of the Lessor first had and obtained in
the manner hereinbefore provided."
By a further provision of the lease, violationiof that covenant entitled the lessor to terminate the lease and to
reenter on specified notice.
Sec. 77 (1), 11 U. S. C. § 205 (1) provides:
"In proceedings under this section and consistent
with the provisions thereof, the jurisdiction and powers of the court, the duties of the debtor and the rights
and liabilities of creditors, and of all persons with
respect to the debtor and its property, shall be the
same as if a voluntary petition for adjudication had
been filed and a decree of adjudication had been entered on the day when the debtor's petition was
filed."
Sec. 70 (b) of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. § 110 (b)
provides in part:
"A general covenant or condition.in a lease that it
shall not be assigned shall not be cohstrued to prevent
the trustee from assuming the same at his election
and subsequently assigning the same; but an express
covenant that an assignment by operation of law or
the bankruptcy of a specified party thereto or of
either party shall terminate the lease or give the other
party an election to terminate the same shall be
enforceable."
We have recently held that those provisions of § 70 (b)
of the Bankruptcy Act are applicable to reorganizations
under Ch. X. 52 Stat. 885, 11 U. S. C. § 526. Finn v.
Meighan, 325 U. S.300. It is argued here, as it was there,
that § 70 (b) should not be applied in reorganization pro-

SMITH v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
123

Opinion of the Court.

ceedings since reorganization plans might be seriously
impaired if forfeiture clauses in leases were allowed to be
enforced. It is contended that forfeiture of railroad
leases runs counter to the design and purpose of § 77,
which is aimed at keeping railroad properties intact so
that reorganization plans may be worked out and disintegration of transportation systems prevented. It is argued
that the policy of § 77 which prevents pledgees and mortgagees from foreclosing their liens (Continental Illinois
NationalBank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 648;
Group of Institutional Investors v. Chicago, M., St. P. &
P. R. Co., 318 U. S. 523) is equally applicable to prevent
lessors from causing forfeiture of leases. It is pointed out
that § 77 (a) gives the reorganization court exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its property wherever located.
It is noted that lessors are creditors as defined by § 77 (b)
and that a plan of reorganization can modify or alter the
rights of creditors either through the issuance of securities
or otherwise. § 77 (b) (1). It isalso pointed out that a
plan of reorganization may cure or waive defaults and may
deal'with all or any part of the property of the debtor,
§ 77 (b) (5), and may provide for the rejection or adoption of leases. § 77 (b). From these provisions and the
policy they reflect, it is argued that § 77 should not be construed as incorporating within it § 70 (b).
.As we have noted, § 77 (1) provides that, so far as "consistent with the provisions" of § 77, the "duties of the
debtor" and the "rights and liabilities of creditors" shall
be the same as if a voluntary adjudication I.ad been made.
We cannot say that the forfeiture provisions of § 70 (b) on
their face are inconsistent with § 77. They embrace leases
of all kinds and sorts. They include leases of railroad
tracks and facilities but they are not restricted to them.
But if § 70 (b) is applicable to some leases under § 77, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

would seem to be applicable to all. And termination of
leases would, in many cases at least, be as consistent with
reorganizations of railroads under § 77 as it would with
reorganizations of other enterprises under Ch. X. Sec.
70 (b) is applicable to reorganizations under. Ch. X as
we held in Finn v. Meighan, supra. As we pointed out in
that case, an express covenant of forfeiture has long been
held to be enforceable against the bankruptcy trustee.
That represents the bankruptcy rule. And we find no
provision in § 77 which suggests that Congress intended to make that rule inapplicable in case of railroad
reorganizations.
It is argued, however, that the covenant in the present
lease is not of the kind which is enforceable under § 70 (b).
In other words, it is said not to be "an express covenant
that an assignment by operation of law or the bankruptcy" of the lessee shall "terminate" or give the lessor
"an election to terminate" the lease.
These forfeiture clauses are to be liberally construed in
favor of the bankruptcy lessee. Finn v. Meighan, supra.
Yet the covenant in question, so construed, seems to us to
fall within § 70 (b). It applies to any "transfer" of the
premises "in any proceeding, whether at law or in equity
or otherwise," to which the lessee is a party, "whereby any
of the rights, duties and obligations" of the lessee are
"transferred, encumbered, abrogated or in any manner
altered" without the lessor's consent. When the trustee
adopted the lease, the lessee's interest was transferred to
him. Palmer v. Palmer, 104 F. 2d 161. That transfer,
being in a § 77 proceeding, was made in a "proceeding,
whether at law or in equity or otherwise." The lessee was
a party to the proceeding. And by the adoption the trustee acquired such rights and obligations under the lease
as the lessee had.
But the question remains whether enforcement of the
forfeiture clause would be "consistent with the provisions"

SMITH v. HOBQKEN R. CO.
123

129

Opinion of the Court.

of § 77 within the meaning of § 77 (1). That question
does not seem to have been considered by the lower courts.
Our view is that itpresents problems primarily forconsideration and decision by the Interstate Commerce Commission and that the reorganization court should nothave
declared a forfeiture of the lease until the-.questionsha&d
been passed upon by the Commission. "There are two
aspects of that problem. The first relates to abandonment of operations by the trustee.
The District Court terminated the lease and authorized
the lessor to reenter upon the premises and to oust the
debtor and the trustee. This order followed an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission dismissing an application, made by respondent to resume operations of the
properties. The application was dismissed because the
Commission was of the view that no certificate from it was
needed. It ruled that the lessor's "obligations and duties
to the public have never ceased but have merely been performed by the lessee for its benefit, and when the latter
for any reason no longer can perform such obligations, the
duties must be performed by the lessor on its own behalf."
257 I. C. C. 739, 744. And the Commission added, "If and
when the lease is terminated and the property reverts to
the applicant, it will have no alternative but to resume
operation thereof." Id., p. 744.
But that case only held that the lessor needed no certificate of public convenience and necessity under § 1 (18)
to operate the road, as, if, and when the lessee or its trustee
ceased operations. It did not present the question
whether operations by the lessee or its trustee might be
abandoned. No application for abandonment of operations by the lessee or its trustee was before the Commission. Authority of a lessor to resume operations if the
lessee or its trustee abandons is one thing; authority of
the lessee or its trustee to abandon is quite different.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

See. 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Act provides in
part:
.. . no carrier by railroad subject to this chapter
shall abandon all or any portion of a line of railroad,
or the operation thereof, unless and until there shall
first have been obtained from the commission a certificate that the present or future public convenience
and necessity permit of such abandonment."
In Thompson v. Texas Mexican R. Co., post, p. 134, we
held that a company having trackage rights over the lines
of another must receive authorization to abandon the operations. That case is, of course, different from the present
one because it entailed complete abandonment of operations by one company over another's lines. Here the
question is whether the lessee or the lessor shall perform
the service. But § 1 (18) provides that "no carrier by
railroad" shall abandon "the operation" of all or anly portion of a line without a certificate from the Commission.
Discontinuance of operations by the trustee is abandonment of operations by a carrier within the meaning of
§ 1 (18). And a certificate is required under § 1 (18)
whether the lessee or the lessor is abandoning operations.
See Lehigh Valley R. Co. Proposed Abandonment of
Operation, 202 I. C. C. 659; Norfolk Southern R. Co.
Receivers' Abandonment, 221 I. C. 0. 258. Whether
the public interest requires that the line be operated by the
lessee rather than the lessor presents a question for the
Commission under § 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce
Act. The lessor is not at the mercy of the lessee in this
situation. For the lessor, as well as the lessee, hag the
standing necessary to invoke § 1 (18) on the question of
abandonment. Thompson v. Texas Mexican R. Co.,
supra.
The second aspect of the problem is related to the first.
It isthe function of the Commission under § 77 to prepare the plan of reorganization of the debtor comilpany.

SMITH v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
123

Opinion of the Court.

§ 77 (d). As we stated in Ecker v. Western Pacific R.
Corp., 318 U. S. 448, 468:
"These reorganizations require something more
than. contests between adversary interests to produce
plans which are fair and in the public interest. When
the public interest, as distinguished from private,
bulks large in the problem, the solution is largely a
function of the legislative and administrative agencies of government with their facilities and experience
in investigating all aspects of the problem and appraising the general interest. Congress outlined the
course reorganization is to follow. It established
standards for administration and placed in the hands
of the Commission the primary responsibility for the
development of a suitable plan. When examined to
learn the purpose of its enactment, § 77 manifests the
intention of Congress to place reorganization under
the leadership of the Commission, subject to a degree
of participation by the court."
The Commission in preparation of the plan is guided not
only by the requirements that the plan be fair and equitable and feasible. It is also charged with the duty of preparing a plan that "will be compatible with the public
interest." § 77 (d). Whether a leased line should continue to be operated by the lessee or should revert to the
system of the lessor may present large questions bearing
on the development by the Commission of an adequate
transportation system. Interstate Commerce Act § 1.
Moreover, it appears in the present case that forfeiture of
the lease will deprive the debtor of all of its railroad properties? Whether a particular carrier should go out of
3 The District Court ordered the trustee to turn over to the respondent all of the property held or used for railroad purposes except bank
accounts, cash, accounts receivable and the like. Among the property
were small lengths of line which the debtor claimed to own in fee but
which the respondent asserted should revert to it. The order of the
District Court provided that the trustee might file a claim for that
property or its value and reasonable compensation for its use,

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

business presents problems of primary importance to its
sqcurity holders and perhaps to the public interest as well.
ff forfeiture of the lease is now declared, no plan: of reorganization may be possible. The problem of .preparing e"
plan of reorganization will often present to the Commission' decisions concerning the adoption or rejection of
leases. The adoption of a lease by the trustee does not
preclude rejection of it in the plan of reorganization.
§ 77 (b). The scheme of the Act is, indeed, to settle in
the plan of reorganization the various claims to the property. The Commission may decide that it is in the public
interest as well as in the interest of the private claimants
that a lease be adopted. If it is adopted, then any defaults
under it can be cured.' § 77 (b) (5). Or it may conclude,
as it did in Group of Institutional Investors v. Chicago,
M., St. P. & P. R. Co., supra, pp. 546-555, that a lease
should be rejected unless the lessor consented to a revision of its terms. Or it may concIide that forfeiture of a
lease according to the provisions of .§ 70 (b) would be
compatible with the public interest: As we stated in
Palmer v. Massachusetts, 308 U. S. 79, 87, "The judicial
process in bankruptcy proceedings under § 77 is, as it were,
brigaded with the administrative process of the Commission." And see Warren v. Palmer,310 U. S. 132. The
point is that if the reorganization court decrees a forfeiture in advance of consideration of the problem by the
Commission, it interferes with the functions entrusted
to the Commission under § 77. Forfeiture of a lease in
accordance with the provisions of § 70 (b) may be wholly
consistent with the preparation of a plan of reorganization under § 77. But, as we have said, the nature of the
I Sec. 77 (b) (5) provides in part, "A plan of reorganization within
the meaning of this section . .. shall provide adequate means for
...the curing or waiver of defaults . . ."

SMITH v. HOBOKEN R. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

123

plan of reorganization to be submitted is entrusted primarily to the Commission. If forfeiture of leases can be
decreed withoi4t prior reference of the matter to the Commission, it may be seriously embarrassed in preparing the
plan which it deems necessary or desirable for the reorganization of the debtor. The federal policy embodied in
§ 77 can prevent enforcement of the engagements of the
debtor pursuant to their terms. Continental Illinois National Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., supra. Cf. Otis
& Co. v. Securities & Exchange Commission, 323 U. S.
624.
We hold that the District Court erred in declaring the
lease forfeited and that the judgment should be reversed
and the cause remanded. The District Court should stay
its hand pending a decision by the Interstate Commerce
Commission on the questions.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

5 Finn v. Meighan, supra, involved the forfeiture of a lease in reorganization proceedings under Ch. X. But the problem there was not
complicated by any provisions of Ch. X giving to an administrative
agency the functions entrusted to the Interstate Commerce Commission under § 77. As we stated in Palmer v. Massachusetts, 308 U. S.
79, 87, ".

.

. the whole scheme of § 77 leaves no doubt that Congress

did not mean to grant to the district courts the same scope as to bankrupt roads that they may have in dealing with other bankrupt
estates."

