BIHN v. UNITED STATES.
624

Syllabus.

papers the possession of which involves no infringement
of law, is a horse of a different color.
Petitioner's right to possession was clearly recognized
by the agents when they sought a warrant for the purpose
of securing the evidence. That warrant was defective,
however, and could not authorize the seizure. The Government deems this, a "technical error." It is a "technicality" of such substance that this Court has frequently
announced the duty to suppress evidence obtained by
such defective warrants. Cf. United States v. Berkeness,

275 U. S. 149; Grau v. United States, 287 U. S. 124; Sgro
v. United States, 287 U. S. 206; Nathanson v. United
States, 290 U. S. 41.

The fact that this evidence might

have been secured by a lawful warrant seems a strange

basis for approving seizure without a warrant.

The

Fourth Amendment stands in the way.

I would reverse the judgment.

BIHN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
N6. 675.

Argued March 26, 1946.-Decided June 10, 1946.

1. Petitioner and one Bennett were tried before a jury for a conspiracy
to violate the statute and regulations governing the rationing of
gasoline. It was charged that petitioner would steal gasoline ration
coupons from the bank where she was employed, transfer them
to Bennett and share with him the proceeds of their sale. The
evidence was conflicting and the case against petitioner was a close
one. It appeared that she and three others had access to the box
from which the coupons were stolen. Over objection of her counsel,
the judge charged the jury: "Did she steal them? Who did if
she didn't? You are to decide that." She was convicted. Held
that the probabilities of confusicur in the minds of the jurors as
to the burden of proof were so great and the charge. was so vital
to the crucial issue in the case as to constitute preyidicial error,
and the conviction is reversed. Pp. 636-639.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

2. An erroneous ruling which relates to the substantial rights of a
party is ground for reversal unless it affirmatively appears from
the whole record that it was not prejudicial. P. 638.
3. It is not enough for this Court to conclude that guilt may be
deduced from the whole record, since such a course would lead
to serious intrusions on the historic functions of the jury under
our system of government. Bollenbach v. United States, 326 U. S.
607. Pp. 638, 639.
152 F. 2d 342, reversed.

Petitioner was convicted under § 37 of the Criminal
Code of a conspiracy to violate the statute and regulations
governing the rationing of gasoline. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed. 152 F. 2d 342. This Court granted
certiorari. 327 U. S. 771. Reversed, p. 639.
Henry K. Chapman argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was David V. Cahill.
John J. Cooney argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Robert S. Erdahl and Leon Ulman.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner and one Bennett were convicted of a conspiracy' to violate the statute and regulations governing
the rationing of gasoline. 2 It was charged that between
July 1, 1943 and September 6, 1944 petitioner would
steal gasoline ration coupons from the First National Bank
of Poughkeepsie, New York, where she was employed,
transfer them to Bennett, and share with Bennett the
I Criminal Code § 37, 18 U. S. C. § 88..
2 § 2 (a) of the Act of June 28, 1940, as amended, 54 Stat. 676, 55
Stat. 236, 56 Stat. 177, 50 U. S. C. App., Supp. IV, § 633; § 2.6 of General Ration Order No. 8, ps amended, 8 Fed. Reg. 9626, 9 Fed. Reg.
1325, 2746.

BIHN v. UNITED STATES.
633

Opinion of the Court.

proceeds of the sale. The case was tried to a jury. Petitioner alone appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which sustained the judgment of conviction, one judge
dissenting. 152 F. 2d 342. The sole question presented
below and here is whether a portion of the charge constituted reversible error. We granted the petition for a writ
of certiorari because the charge given raised an important
question in the administration of the federal criminal
laws.
The crucial issue, so far as petitioner's case was concerned, was whether she stole the ration coupons from
the bank.
Bennett did not take the stand. Statements made by
him out of court were introduced. They implicated petitioner in the scheme. But they were admissible against
Bennett alone, not against petitioner. And the trial judge
so ruled. Two of Bennett's relatives-his mother-in-law
and sister-in-law-testified concerning conversations they
had had with petitioner. Their versions of the conversations implicated petitioner in the scheme. Petitioner's
version was different. The conflict in testimony presented a question of credibility for the jury. Bearing on
that was the possible bias of those witnesses, traceable in
part to their hostility to petitioner on account of the fact
that she apparently had been on intimate terms with Bennett prior to his marriage.
There was no direct evidence that petitioner had stolen
the coupons. There was, however, other evidence from
which such an inference could be drawn. It assumed a
place of considerable importance at the trial. And the
alleged error in the charge relates to it.
Petitioner handled ration coupons which merchants
deposited with the bank. The ration coupons were received by tellers for deposit. After the coupons had been
received for deposit by the tellers, petitioner checked the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

1 328 U. S.

deposits against the deposit slips and kept the rationing
records. After counting the coupons and making the
entries, she placed the coupons in a steel file which was
locked. The keys to the file were kept in her desk, which
was not locked. -At regular intervals petitioner would
take the accumulated ration coupons and box them for
transmission to the Office of Price Administration. She
would also prepare a form showing the contents of the
box. In preparing this form, she would not recount the
coupons but would compile the figures from the daily
records which had been prepared as the coupons were
deposited. On September 5, 1944, petitioner prepared
a box for transmission to the Office of Price Administration, sealed it, and turned it over to the cashier of the
bank. The accompanying form represented on its face
that the box contained gasoline ration coupons for some
156,000 gallons. Its examination showed a shortage of
some 37,000 gallons. Petitioner had a good record at the
bank. The accounts which she kept were kept well and
accurately. She was not the only one who had access
to the coupons in the steel file. At least four other employees of the bank had equal access to that file. One
of these was a lady with whom, according to petitioner's
testimony, Bennett had a rather intimate acquaintance.
The case against petitioner was therefore a close one.
Plainly there was sufficient evidence for submission of
the case to the jury. But since one of four other persons
might have purloined the coupons, reasonable doubt as
to petitioner's guilt might readily be inferred.
It was against this background that the trial judge
charged the jury:
"Who would have a motive to steal them? Did
she take these stamps? You have a right to consider
that. She is not charged with stealing, but with conspiracy to do all these things, and you have a right

BIHN v. UNITED STATES.
633

Opinion of the Court.

to consider whether she did steal them, on the question of intent. Did she steal them? Who did if she
didn't? You are to decide that." (Italics added.)
Counsel excepted to the charge on the ground that it was
not "the jury's duty to find out who did steal the stamps."
No modification of the charge was made.
We assume that the charge might not be misleading or
confusing to lawyers. But the probabilities of confusion
to a jury are so likely (cf. Shepard v. United States, 290
U. S. 96, 104) that we conclude that the charge was prejudicially erroneous.
Instructions to acquit, if there was reasonable doubt as
to petitioner's guilt, were given in other parts of the charge.
Those were general instructions. They would be adequate, standing alone. But on the crucial issue of the
trial-whether petitioner or one of four other persons stole
the coupons from the bank-no such qualification was
made; and the question was so put as to suggest a different
standard of guilt. As stated by Judge Frank in his dissenting opinion below: "Literally interpreted, the judge's
charge told them that this was not sufficient to justify
acquittal, for it was their 'duty' (a) to decide that appellant committed the theft unless (b) they decided that
some other specific person did. So interpreted, this charge
erred by putting on appellant the burden of proving her
innocence by proving the identity of some other person
as the thief." 15 F. 2d, p. 348. Or to put the matter
another way, the instruction may be read as telling the
jurors that, if petitioner by her testimony had not convinced them that someone else had stolen the ration
coupons, she must have done so. So read, the instruction
sounds more like comment of a zealous prosecutor rather
than an instruction by a judge who has special responsibilities for assuring fair trials of those accused of crime.
See Quercia v. United States, 289 U. S.466, 469.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

The-"harmless error" statute '(Judicial Code § 269, 28
U. S. C. § 391) means that a criminal appeal should not
be turned into a quest for error. It does not mean that
portions of the charge are to be read in isolation to the
full charge and magnified out of all proportion to their
likely impbrtance at the trial. Boyd v. United States,
271 U. S. 104,107. Yet as stated in McCandless v. United
States, 298 U. S. 342, 347-348, "an erroneous ruling which
relates to the substantial rights of a party is ground for
reversal unless it affirmatively appears from the whole
record that it was not prejudicial." It seems plain that
the inflection or tone of voice used in giving the challenged instruction could make it highly damaging. And
in any event the probabilities of confusion in the minds
of the jurors seem so great, and the charge was so important to the vital issue in the case, that we conclude that
prejudicial error was committed. We certainly cannot
say from a review of the whole record that lack of prejudice affirmatively appears. While there was sufficient
evidence for the jury, the case against petitioner was not
open and shut. Since the scales were quite evenly balanced, we feel that the jury might have been influenced
by the erroneous charge. Hence we cannot say it was
not prejudicial and hence treat it as a minor aberration
of trivial consequence. Nor is it enough for us to conclude that guilt may be deduced from the whole record.
"On the hearing of any appeal, certiorari, or motion for a new
trial, in any case, civil or criminal, the court shall give judgment
after an examination of the entire record before the court, without
regard to technical errors, defects, or exceptions which do not affect
the substantial rights of the parties."
The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, effective March 21, 1946,
provide that "Any error, defect, irregularity or variance which does
not affect substantial rights shall be disregarded." Rule 52 (a). This
is merely a restatement of existing law and effects no change in the
"harmless error" rule.
3

BIHN v. UNITED STATES.
633

BLACK, J., dissenting.

Such a course would lead to serious intrusions on the
historic functions of the jury under our system of government. See Bollenbach v. United State, 326 U. S.
607.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

The jury found this defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt after the trial judge had charged that: "A defendant is not required to establish his innocence but the
Government must establish guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt. If the facts and circumstances surrounding the
case are as consistent with innocence as with guilt, he is not
guilty." Six other times the judge explicitly charged the
jury to the same effect: The defendant's innocence is presumed; she need not prove it; the burden is on the Government to prove her guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
Yet the Court now reverses on the ground that the jury
might conceivably have taken three sentences in the trial
judge's charge to mean that the defendant must prove
innocence, which conceivably might have led the jury to
believe that the court might have intended to withdraw
his seven explicit instructions to the contrary. The three
sentences were: "Did she steal them? Who did if she
didn't? You are to decide that." Instructions such as
these as to who stole the coupons were necessary because
of the petitioner's defense that somebody else had taken
them. The trial judge was obviously telling the jury not
to ignore the petitioner's defense. No reference was made
to burden of proof and no ordinary juror, unskilled in legal
dialectics, would have suspected the latent ambiguity
which the Court has discovered. Of course, hypercritical

