S. E. C. v. HOWEY CO.

293

Statement of the Case.

SECURITIES &'EXCHANGE COMMISSION v. W. J.
HOWEY CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH. CIRCUIT.

No. 843.

Argued May 2, 1946.-Decided May 27, 1946.

1. Upon the facts of this case, an offering of units of a citrus grove
development coupled with a contract for cultivating, marketing
and remitting the net proceeds to the investor, was an offering of
an "investment contract" within the meaning of that term as used
in the provision of § 2 (1) of the Securities Act of 1933 defining
"security" as including any "investment contratt," and 'was therefore subject to the registration requirements of the Act. Pp. 294297, 299.
2. For purposes of the Securities Act, an investment contract (undefined by the Act) means a contract, transaction or scheme whereby
a person invests his money in a common enterprise and is led to
expect profits solely from the efforts of the promoter or a third
party, it being immaterial whether the shares in the enterprise are
evidenced by formal. certificates or by nominal interests in the
physical assets employed in the enterprise. Pp. 298-299.
3. The fact that some purchasers, by'declining to enter into the service
contract, chose not to accept the offer of the investment contract
-in its entirety, does not require a differept result, since the Securities, Act prohibits the offer as well as the sale of unregistered, nonexempt securities. P. 300.
4. The test of. whether there is an "investment contract" under the
Securities Act is whether the scheme involves an -investment of
money in a common enterprise with profits to come solely from
the efforts of others; and, if that test be satisfied, it is.immaterial
whether the enterprise is speculative or non-speculative or whether
there is a sale of property with or without intrinsic value. P. 301.
5. The policy of the Securities Act of affording broad protection to
investors is not to be thwarted by unrealistic and irrelevant formulae. P. 301.
151 F. 2d 714, reversed.

The Securities & Exchange Commission sued in the
District Court to enjoin respondents from using the mails
and instrumentalities of interstate commerce in the offer

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

and sale of unregistered and non-exempt securities in violation of the Securities Act of 1933. The District Court
denied the injunction. 60 F. Supp. 440. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed. 151 F. 2d 714. This- Court
granted certiorari. 327 U. S.773. Reversed, p. 301.
Roger S. Foster argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Robert
S. Rubin and Alexander Cohen.
C. E. Duncan and George C. Bedell argued the cause
and filed a brief for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves the application of § 2 (1) of the Securities Act of 1933 1 to an offering of units of a citrus
grove development coupled with. a contract for cultivating, marketing and remitting the net proceeds to the
investor.
The Securities and Exchange Commission instituted
this action to restrain the respondents from using the mails
and instrumentalities of interstate commerce in the offer
and sale of unregistered and non-exempt securities in violation of § 5 (a) of the Act. The District Court denied
the injunction, 60 F. Supp. 440, and the Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment, 151 F. 2d 714.
We granted certiorari on a petition alleging that the ruling
of the Circuit Court of Appeals conflicted with other fed,eral and state decisions and that it introduced a novel and
unwarranted test under the statute which the Commission regarded as administratively impractical.
Most of the facts are stipulated. The respondents,
W. J. Howey Company and Howey-in-the-Hills Service,
1

48 Stat. 74, 15 U. S. C. § 77b (1).

S. E. C. v. HOWEY CO.
293

Opinion of the Court.

Inc., are Florida corporations under direct common control and management. 'The Howey Company owns large.
tracts of citrus acreage in Lake County, Florida. During
the past several years it has planted about 500 acres annually, keeping half of the groves itself and offering the
other half, to the public "to help us finance additional
development." .Howey-in-the-Hills Service, Inc., is a
service company engaged in cultivating and developing
many of these groves, including the harvesting 'and marketing of the crops.
Each prospective customer is offered both a land sales
contract and a service contract, after having been told
that it is not, feasible to invest in a grove unless service
arrangements are made. While the purchaser is free to
make arrangements with other service companies, the superiority -of Howey-in-the-Hills Service, Inc., is stressed.
Indeed, 85% of the acreage sold during the 3-year period
ending May 31, 1943, was covered by service contracts
with Howey-in-the-Hills Service, Inc.
The land sales contract with the Howey Company provides for a uniform purchase price per acre or fraction
thereof, varying in amount only in accordance with the
number of years the particular plot has been planted with
citrus trees. Upon full payment of the purchase price
the land is conveyed to the purchaser by warranty deed.
Purchases are usually made in narrow strips of land arranged so that axi acre consists of a row of 48 trees. During the period 'between February 1, 1941, and May 31,
1943, 31 of the 42 persons making purchases bought less
than 5 acres each. The average holding of these 31 persons was 1.33 acres and sales of as little as 0.65, 0.7 and
0.73 of an acre were made. These tracts are not separately fenced and the sole indication of several ownership
is found in small land marks intelligible only through a
plat book record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

The service contract, generally of a 10-year duration
without option of cancellation, gives H Jwey-in-the-Hills
Service, Inc., a leasehold interest and "full and complete"
possession of the acreage. For a specified fee plus the
cost of labor and materials, the company is given full
discretion and authority over the cultivation of the groves
and the harvest and marketing of the crops. The company is well established in the citrus business and maintains a large force of skilled personnel and a great deal
of equipment, including 75 tractors, sprayer wagons, fertilizer trucks and the like. Without the consent of the
company, the land owner or purchaser has no right of
entry to market the crop; 2 thus there is ordinarily no
right to specific fruit. The company is accountable only
for an allocation of the net profits based upon a check
made at the time of picking. All the produce is pooled
by the re-pondent companies, which do business under
their own names.
The purchasers for the most part are non-residents of
Florida. They are predominantly business and professional people who lack the knowledge, skill and equipment
necessary for the care and cultivation of citrus trees.
They are attracted by the expectation of substantial
profits. It was represented, for example, that profits during the 1943-1944 season amounted to 20% and that even
greater profits might be expected during the 1944-19, 3
season, although only a 10% annual return was to be expected over a 10-year period. Many of these purchasers
are patrons of a resort hotel owned and operated by the
Howey Company in a scenic section adjacent to the groves.
The hotel's advertising mentions the fine groves in the
vicinity and the attention of the patrons is drawn to the
2Some

investors visited their partic.:lar plots annually, making

suggestions as to care and cultivation, but without any legal rights
in the matters.

S. E. C. v. HOWEY CO.
293

Opinion of the Court.,

groves as they are being escorted about the surrounding
countryside. They are told that the groves are for sale;
if they indicate an interest in the matter they are then
given a sales talk.
It is admitted that the mails and instrumentalities of
interstate commerce are used in the sale of the land and
service contracts and that no registration statement or
letter of notification has ever been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Securities Act of 1.933 and the
rules and regulations thereunder.
Section 2 (1) of the Act.defines the term "security" to
include the commonly known documents traded for speculation or investment.' This definition also includes
"securities" of a more variable character, designated by
such descriptive terms as "certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agreement," "investment contract" and "in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a 'security.'"
The legal issue in this case
turns upon a determination of whether, under the circumstances, the land.sales contract, the warranty deed and
the servicc contract together constitute an "investment
contract" within the meaning of § 2 (1). An affirmative
answer brings into operation the registration requirements
of § 5 (a), unless the security is granted an. exemption
under § 3 (b). The lower courts, in reaching a negative
answer to this problem, treated the contracts and deeds
8"The term 's -urity' means any note, stock, treasury stock, bond,
debenture, evidence of indebtedness, certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agreement, collateral-trust certificate,
preorganization certificate or subscription, transferable share, investment contract, voting-trust crtificate, certificate of deposit for a
security, fractional. undivided interest in oil, gas, or other mineral
rights, or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as
a 'security,' or any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or mtenm certifitate for, receipt for, guarantee of, or warrant or
right to subscribe to or purchase, any of the foregoing."
,

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

as separate transactions involving no more than an ordinary real estate sale and an agreement by the seller to
manage the property for the buyer.
The term "investment contract" is undefined by the
Securities Act or by relevant legislative reports. But the
term was common in many state "blue sky" laws in existence prior to the adoption of the federal statute and,
although the term was also undefined by the state laws,
it had been broadly -construed by state courts so as to
afford the investing public a full measure of protection.
Form was disregarded for substance and emphasis was
placed upon economic reality. An investment contract
thus came to mean a contract or scheme for "the placing
of capital or laying out of money in a way intended to
secure income or profit from its employment." State v.
Gopher Tire & Rubber Co., 146 Minn. 52, 56, 177 N. W.
937, 938. This definition was uniformly applied by state
courts to a variety of situations where individuals were
led to invest money in a common enterprise with the
expectation that they would earn a profit solely through
the efforts of the promoter or of some one other than
themselves.'
By including an investment contract within the scope
of § 2 (1) of the Securities Act, Congress was using a term
the meaning of Which had been crystallized by this prior
judicial interpretation. It is therefore reasonable to attach that meaning to the term as used by Congress, especially since such a definition is consistent with the statutory aims. In other words, an investment contract for
purposes of the Securities Act means a contract, trans'State v.Evans. 154 Minn. 95, 191 N. W. 425; Klatt v. Guaranteed
Bond Co., 213 Wis. 12, 250 N. W. 825; State v. Heath, 199 N. C.
135, 153 S. E. 855; Prohaska v. Hemmer-Miller Development Co.,
256 111. App. 331; People v.White, 124 Cal. App. 548, 12 P. 2d 1078;
Stevens v. Liberty Packing Corp., 111 N. J. Eq. 61, 161 A. 193. See
also Moore v. Stella, 52 Cal. App. 2d 766, 127 P. 2d 300.

S. E. C. v. HOWEY CO.
293

Opinion of the Court.

action or scheme whereby a person invests his money in
a common enterprise and is led to expect profits solely
from the efforts of the promoter or a third party, it being
immaterial whether the shares in the enterprise are evidenced by formal certificates or by nominal interests in
the physical assets employed in the enterprise. Such a
definition necessarily underlies this Court's decision in
S. E. C. v. Joiner Corp., 320 U. S. 344, and has been enunciated and applied many times by lower federal courts.'
It permits the fulfillment of the statutory purpose of compelling full and fair disclosure relative to the issuance of
"the many types of instruments that in our commercial
world fall within the ordinary concept of a security."
H. Rep. No. 85, 73d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 11. It embodies
a flexible rather than a static principle, one that is capable
of adaptation to meet the countless and variable schemes
devised by those who seek the use of the money of others
on the promise of profits.
The transactions in this case clearly involve investment
contracts as so defined. The respondent companies are
offering something more than fee simple interests in land,
something different from a farm or orchard coupled with
management services. They are offering an opportunity
to contribute money and to share in the profits of a large
citrus fruit enterprise managed and partly owned by respondents. They are offering this opportunity to persons
who reside in distant localities and who lack the equip5

Atherton v. United States, 128 F. 2d 463; Penfield Co. v. S. E. C.,

143 F. 2d 746; S. E. C. v. Universal Service Assn., 106 F. 2d 232;
S. E. C. v. Crude Oil Corp., 93 F. 2d 844; S. E. C. v. Bailey, 41 F.
Supp. 647; S. E. C. v. Payne, 35 F. Supp. 873; S. E. C. v. Bourbon
Sales Corp., 47 F. Supp. 70; S. E. C. v. Wickham, 12 F. Supp. 245;
S. E. C. v. Timetrust, Inc., 28 F. Supp. 34; S. E. C. v. Pyne, 33 F.
Supp. 988- The Commission has followed the same definition in its
own administrative proceedings. In re Natural Resources Corp.,

8 S. E. C. 635.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U: S.

ment and experience requisite to the cultivation, harvest-ing and market:.Ag of the citrus products. Such persons
have no desire to occupy the land or to develop it themselves; they are attracted solely by the prospects of a
return on their investment. Indeedindividual development of the plots of land that are offered and sold would
seldom be economically feasible due to their small size.
Such tracts 'gain utility as citrus groves only when cultivated and deyeloped as component parts of a larger area.
A common enterprise managed by respondents or third
parties with Adequate personnel and equipment is therefore essential if the investors are to achieve their paramount aim of a return on their investments. Their respective shares in this enterprise are evidenced by land
sales contracts and warranty deeds, which serve as a convenient method of determining the investors' allocable
shares c' the profits. The resulting transfer of rights in
land is purely incidental.
Thus all the elements of a proIt-seeking buLiness venture are present here. The investors provide the
and share in the earnings and profits; the promoters manage, control and operate the enterprise. It follows that
the arrangements whereby, the investors' interests are
made manifest involve investment contracts, regardless
of the legal terminology in which such contracts are
clothed. The investment contracts in this instance take
the form of land sales contracts, warranty deeds and service contracts which respondents offer to prospective iivestors. And respondents' failure to abide by the statutory and administrative rules in making such offerings,
even though the failure result from a bona fide mistake as
to the law, cannot be sanctioned under the Act.
This conclusion is unaffected by the fact that some pur-.
chasers choose not to accept the full offer of an investment
contract by declining to enter into a service contract with
.apital

S. E. C. v. HOWEY CO.
293

FRANKFUMTER,

J., dissenting.

the respondents. The Securities Act prohibits the offer
as well as the sale of unregistered, non-exempt securities.6
Hence it is enough that the respondents merely offer the
essential ingredients of an investment contract.
We reject the suggestion of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
151 1]. 2d at 717, that an investment contract is necessarily
missing where the enterprise is not speculative or promotional in character and where the tangible interest which
is'sold has intrinsic value independent of the success of
the enterprise as a whole. The test is whether the scheme
involves an investment of money in a common enterprise
with profits to come solely from the efforts of others. If
that test be eatisfied, it is immaterial whether the enterprise is speculative or non-speculative or whether there is
a sale of property with or without intrinsic value. See
S. E. C. v. Joiner Corp., supra,352. The statutory policy
of affording broad protection to investors is not to be
thwarted by unrealistic and irrelevant formulae.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case,
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, dissenting.

"Investment contract" is not a term of art; it is a conception dependent upon the circumstances of a particular
situation. If this case came before us on a finding authorized by Congress that the facts disclosed an "investment contract" within the general scope of § 2 (1) of the
Securities Act, 48 Stat. 74, 15 U. S. C. § 77b (1), the Securities and Exchahge Commission's finding would govern,
unless, on the record, it was wholly unsupported. But
6 The registration requirements of § 5 refer to sales of securities.
Section 2 (3) defines "sale" to include every "attempt or offer to dispose of, or solicitation of an offer to buy," a security for value.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting..

328 U.S.

that is not the case before us. Here the ascertainment of
thie existence of an "investment contract" had to be made
independently by the District Court and it found against
its existence. 60 F. Supp. 440. The Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit sustained that finding. 151
F. 2d 714. If respect is to be paid to the wise rule of judicial administration under which this Court does not upset
concurrent findings of two lower courts in the ascertainment of facts and the relevant inferences to be drawn from
them, this case clearly calls for its application. See Allen
v. Trust Company of Georgia, 326 U. S. 630. For the
crucial issue in this case turns on whether the contracts
for the land and the contracts for the management of the
property were in reality separate agreements or merely
parts of a single transaction. It is clear from its opinion
that the District Court was warranted in its conclusion
that the record does not establish the existence of an
investment contract:
the record in this case shows that not a single
sale of citrus grove property was made by the Howey
Company during the period involved in this suit,
except to purchasers who actually inspected the property before purchasing the same. The record further
discloses that no purchaser is required to engage the
Service Company to care for his property and that
of the fifty-one purchasers acquiring property during
this period, only forty-two entered into contracts.with
the Service Company for the care of the property."
60 F. Supp. at 442.
Simply because other arrangements may have the appearances of this transaction but are employed as an evasion
of the Securities Act does not mean that the present contracts were evasive. I find nothing in the Securities Act
to indicate that Congress meant to bring every innocent
transaction within the scope of the Act simply because a
perversion of them is covered by the Act.

