OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

ZAP v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 489.

Argued February 5, 6, 1946.-Decided June 10, 1946.

1. Petitioner was under contract to do experimental work for the
Navy. Pursuant to the terms of the contract and authority delegated to them under § 10 (1) of the Act of July 2, 1926, and § 1301
ofthe Second War Powers Act, agents of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation were auditing his books and records at his place of
business during business hours with the consent and cooperation
of his employees. One of the agents requested, and was given
by petitioner's bookkeeper, a certain cancelled check, which was
later admitted in evidence over petitioner's objection in a trial
which resulted in his conviction for defrauding the Government
by means of that check. Held: This did not violate his rights
under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. Pp. 628-630.
2. When petitioner, in order to obtain the Government's business,
specifically agreed to permit inspection of his accounts and records,
he voluntarily waived such claims to privacy which he otherwise
might have had as respects business documents related to those
contracts. P. 628.
3. The powers of inspection were not transcended, since the inspection
was made during regular hours, at the place of business, with the
full cooperation of petitioner's staff, and without force or threat
of force. P. 628.
4. As a result of its contract with petitioner and the relevant statutes,
the Government had authority to inspect petitioner's books and
records and to utilize agents of the Federal Bureau of Invettigation
for this purpose. Pp,628, 629.
5. The search being lawful, the agents could testify as to the facts
about which they had obtained knowledge, including the facts'
disclosed by the check. P. 629.
6. To require reversal merely because the check itself was admitted
in evidence would be to exalt a technicality to constitutional levels.
P. 630.
7. It was in the sound discretion of the District Court to admit the
check in evidence. P. 630.
151 F. 2d 100, affirmed.

ZAP v. UNITED STATES.
624

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner was convicted of defrauding the Government
in violation of § 35 (A) of the Criminal Code. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 151 F. 2d 100. This
Court granted certiorari limited to the question whether
books and records relating to his contract with the Navy
Department were properly admitted as evidence at his
trial. 326 U. S. 802. Affirmed, p. 630.
Morris Lavine argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Ralph F. Fuchs argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Robert S. Erdahl and Beatrice Rosenberg.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari
from a judgment affirming the conviction of petitioner for
violation of § 35 (A) of the Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C.
§80.1

151 F. 2d 100.

1 "Whoever shall make or cause to be made or present or cause
to be presented, for payment or approval, to or by any person or
officer in the civil, military, or naval service of the United States,
or any department thereof, or any corporation in which the United
States of Anerica is a stockholder, any claim upon or against the
Government of the United States, or any deparIment or officer thereof,
or any .corporation in which the United States of America is a stockholder, knowing such claim to be false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
whoever shall knotvingly and willfully falsify or conceal or cover up
by any trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or make or cause
to be made any false or fraudulent statements or representations, or
make or use or cause to be made or used any false bill, receipt, voucher,
roll, account, claim, certificate, affidavit, or deposition, knowing the
same to contain any fraudulent or fictitious statement or entry in
any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of
the United States or of any corporation in which the United States
of America is a stockholder, shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Petitioner entered into contracts with the Navy Department under which he was to do experimental work on
airplane wings and to conduct test flights. He was to
be paid on a cost-plus-fixed-fee basis. He arranged with
a pilot to make certain test flights and paid him about
$2,500. Prior to the test flights, he had the pilot endorse
a blank check, telling him that it was to be used to defray
the expenses of the test. He then filled in the test pilot's
name as payee and $4,000 as the amount of the check.
The check was posted in petitioner's books of account as
a payment to the test pilot. Later petitioner presented
to the Navy Department a voucher for work under his
contract. Supporting the claim was a document in which
he certified that he had paid the test pilot $4,000.
Congress has provided for the inspection and audit of
books and records of contractors such as petitioner.' The
2 Sec.

10 (1) of the Act of July 2, 1926, 44 Stat. 787, 10 U. S. C.

§ 310 (1) provides: "The manufacturing plant, and books, of any
contractor for furnishing or constructing aircraft, aircraft parts, or
aeronautical accessories, for the War Department or the Navy Department, or such part of any manufacturing plant as may be so engaged,
shall at all times be subject to inspection and audit by any
person designated by the head of any executive department of the
Government."
Title XIII, § 1301 of the Second War Powers Act of March 27,
1942, 56 Stat. 185, 50 U. S. C. App. Supp. IV, § 643 provides: "The
provisions of section 10 (1) of an Act approved July 2, 1926 (44 Stat.
787; 10 U. S. C. § 310 (1)) (giving the Govern'menit the right to inspect
the plant and audit the books of -certain Contractors), shall apply
to the plant, books, and records of any contractor with whom a defense
contract has been placed at any time after the declaratiorr of emergency on September 8, 1939, and before thetermination of the present
war: Provided, That, for the purpose of this title, the term-'defense
contract' shall mean any contract, subcontract, or order placed in
furtherance of the defense or war effort: And providedfurther,That
the inspection and audit authorized herein, and the determination
whether a given contract is a 'defense contract' as defined above, shall
be made by a governmental agency or officer designated by the President, or by the Chairman of the War Production Board." See H.

ZAP v. UNITED STATES
624

Opinion of the Court.

inspection and audit were authorized to be made "by a
governmental agency or officer designated by the President, or by the Chairman of the War Production Board." I
Certain officials of the Government, including the Secretary of the Navy, were authorized to exercise the power;
and they were also delegated the power to "authorize such
officer or officers or civilian officials of their respective
departments or agencies to make further delegations of
such powers and authority within their respective departments and agencies."'
And petitioner's contract with
the Navy Department provided: "The accounts and records of the contractor shall be open at all times to the
Government and its representatives, and such statements
and returns relative to costs shall be made as may be
directed by the Government."
For several weeks in 1942, agents of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation conducted an audit of petitioner's books
and records at his place of business and during business
hours. They acted under the auspices and by the authority of an accountant and a cost inspector of the Navy
Department under whose jurisdiction petitioner's books
and records had been placed for purposes of audit and
inspection. During part of this period, petitioner was
absent. But while he was away, his employees granted
the agents admission and cooperated with them by supplying records and furnishing information. When petitioner returned to the city, he made some protest against
the examination. But the agents did not desist and continued to make the examination with the assistance of
petitioner's employees. The $4,000 check was requested
and it was given to one of the agents by petitioner's bookRep. No. 1765, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 12-13; S. Rep. No. 989, 77th
Cong., 2d Sess., p. 9.
s See § 1301 supra, note 2.
'Executive Order No. 9127, issued April 10, 1942, 7 Fed. Reg.

2753.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

keeper. It appears that the check was retained by the
agent I and was introduced at the trial. The trial judge
denied a motion to suppress the evidence. At the trial,
petitioner did not object to the admission of the check
in evidence but later moved to have it stricken on the
ground that it had been illegally obtained. The single
question to which we limited the grant of the petition for
a writ of certiorari is the propriety of the action of the
District Court in allowing the check to be admitted.
As we have pointed out in Davis v. United States, ante,
p. 582, the law of searches and seizures as revealed in the
decisions of this Court is the product of the interplay of
the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. But those rights
may be waived. And when petitioner, in order to obtain
the Government's business, specifically agreed to permit
inspection of his accounts and records, he voluntarily
waived such claim to privacy which he otherwise might
have had as respects business documents related to those
contracts. Whatever may be the limits of that power
of inspection, they were not transcended here. For the
inspection was made during regular hours at the place
of business. No force or threat of force was employed.
Indeed, the inspection was made with the full cooperation
of petitioner's staff. There is some suggestion that the
search was unreasonable because made by agents of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation who were not persons
authorized to conduct those examinations. But they
acted under the auspices and with the authority of representatives of the Navy Department who were authorized
to inspect. The inspection was nevertheless an inspection
by the Navy, though its officials were aided by agents of
another department.' Moreover, the right to inspect
5We accept that version of the episode. The other version is that
the check was obtained under a search warrant. But the warrant
was admittedly defective. So we treat the case as one where the check
was seized without a warrant.
6 See Cravens v. United States, 62 F. 2d 261, 265.

ZAP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

624

granted by the contracts was not limited to inspections by
the Navy but extended to inspections by any authorized
representatives of the Government, among whom the
agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation are
included.
The agents, therefore, were lawfully on the premises.
They obtained by lawful means access to the documents.
That much at least was granted by the contractual agreement for inspection. They were not trespassers. They
did not obtain access by force, fraud, or trickery. Thus
the knowledge they acquired concerning petitioner's conduct under the contract with the Government was lawfully
obtained. Neither the Fourth nor Fifth Amendment
would preclude the agents from testifying at the trial concerning the facts about which they had laivfully obtained
knowledge. See Paperv. United States, 53 F. 2d 184,185;
In re Sana Laboratories,Inc., 115 F. 2d 717, 718. Even
though it be assumed in passing that the taking of the
check was unlawful, that would not make inadmissible in
evidence the knowledge which had been legally obtained.
United States v. Lee, 274 U. S. 559, 563. The agents did
not become trespassers ab initio when they took the check.
See McGuire v. United States, 273 U. S. 95. Had the
check been returned to petitioner on the motion to sup7
press, a warrant for it could have been immediately issued.
Or, during the inspection, the agents could have taken photostats or made copies of the check and offered them in
evidence without producing the originals. Lisansky v.
United States, 31 F. 2d 846, 850-851. Darby v. United
States, 132 F. 2d 928, 929. The agreement to allow an
inspection carried consequences at least so great. The
question therefore is a narrow one. It is whether the
-check itself could be introduced at the trial.
7 The

Search Warrant Act, 40 Stat. 228, IS U. S. C. § 612, permits

the issuance of a search warrant for property used "as the means of
committing a felony

. .

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER, J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, held that private
property obtained as a result of an unlawful search and
seizure could not be used as evidence in a criminal prosecution of the owner. As explained in Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 385, 392, the evidence
so obtained is suppressed on the theory that the Government may not profit from its own wrongdoing. But as
stated in McGuire v. United States, supra,p. 99, "A criminal prosecution is more than a game in which the Government may be checkmated and the game lost merely
because its officers have not played according to rule."
To require reversal here would be to exalt a technicality
to constitutional levels. The search and the discovery
were wholly lawful. A search warrant would be merely
the means of insuring the production in court of the primary source of evidence otherwise admissible. Though
consent to the inspection did not include consent to the
taking of the check, there was no wrongdoing in the
method by which the incriminating evidence was obtained.
The waiver of such rights to privacy and to immunity as
petitioner had respecting this business undertaking for
the Government made admissible in evidence all the
incriminating facts. We cannot extend the rule of the
Weeks case so far as to bar absolutely the check itself.
It was in the sound discretion of the District Court to
admit it.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took

no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

with whom MR.

MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur,

JUSTICE

dissenting.

The views expressed in my dissenting opinion in Davis
v. United States, decided this day, ante, p. 594, likewise
compel me to dissent in this case.

ZAP v. UNITED STATES.
624

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

The petitioner is an aeronautical engineer. He made
a contract with the Navy Department to perform experimental work. In June, 1942, the Navy agreed that Zap
should carry out test flights to determine the value of his
experimental work. The tests were to be paid for by the
Navy on a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee basis. Zap estimated that
the cost of these flights would be $4,000, but he made
arrangements for the tests at a fee of $2,500. Prior to
the flights, the test pilot indorsed a blank check which he
returned to the petitioner. The petitioner's auditor instructed the bookkeeper to make the check for $4,000 and
deposit it in the petitioner's account. The check was
posted on the petitioner's books for payment to the pilot,
though in fact the pilot received only $2,500.
In October, 1942, petitioner presented a voucher to the
Navy for reimbursement for the money laid out in making
the tests. The voucher was supported by a reference to
the check for $4,000. From October 20, to December 1,
1942, two F. B. I. agents conducted an audit of the petitioner's books and papers, under the auspices of an accountant and inspector of the Navy. During this investigation one of the F. B. I. agents demanded and received
the cancelled check for $4,000 made out to the pilot and
endorsed by him. The agent retained the check. On
December 1, 1942, one of the agents swore out an affidavit
on the basis of which a search warrant was issued for the
books and papers of the petitioner, and these books and
papers were taken under the warrant. The warrant, it is
conceded, was defective, inasmuch as the affidavit failed
to show the necessary probable cause for the belief that
the petitioner had committed an offense to warrant the
seizure.
The petitioner was convicted of defrauding the Government. Criminal Code, § 35 (A), 35 Stat. 1088, 1095,
40 Stat. 1015, 48 Stat. 996, 52 Stat. 197, 18 U. S. C. § 80.
He made a timely motion to suppress the cancelled check

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

ahd other records. The motion was denied, the documents were admitted in evidence, conviction and its
affirmance followed. 151 F. 2d 100. The sole question
before us is the validity of the seizure.
I agree that the Government had authority, as a result
of its contract with the petitioner and the relevant statutes, to inspect the petitioner's books and records, 44 Stat.
780, 787, 10 U. S. C. § 310 (1), 56 Stat. 176, 185, 50 U. S. C.
App. § 643, and that the Navy Department could utilize
members of the F. B. I. for this purpose. Accordingly,
the search was legal and the inspectors could testify to
what they had gleaned from the inspection. But, as is
pointed out in my dissent in Davis v. United States, decided this day, ante, p. 594, the constitutional prohibition
is directed not only at illegal searches. It likewise condemns invalid seizures. And that is the issue here. The
legality of a search does not automatically legalize every
accompanying seizure.
The Government argues very simply that the seizure
was authorized since the seized items were uncovered in
a lawful search. But this is to overlook what we ruled
in Marron v. United States, 275 U. S. 192, 196: "The

requirement that warrants shall particularly describe the
things to be seized makes general searches under them
impossible and prevents the seizure of one thing under
a warrant describing another. As to what is to be taken,
nothing is left to the discretion of the officer executing
the warrant." If where a search instituted under the
legal process of a warrant, which also authorizes seizure,
does not permit seizure of articles other than those specified, statutory and contractual authority merely to search
cannot be considered sufficient to grant that power. The
Government relies on a doctrine quite inapposite here.
If, in the course of a valid search, materials are uncovered,
the very possession or concealment of which is a crime,
they may be seized. But to seize for evidentiary use

