OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

tional Bank v. United States, 107 U. S. 445; United States
v. Guaranty Trust Co., 280 U. S. 478. Cf. United States v.
Emory, 314 U. S.423, 431-432. We find no such inconsistency here. And "only the plainest inconsistency
would warrant our finding an implied exception to the
operation of so clear a command as that of § 3466."
United States v. Emory, supra, 433.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

EL DORADO OIL WORKS ET AL. V. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 428. Argued January 30 and March 26, 1946.-Decided April
22, 1946.
A shipper who rented tank cars for transporting its products in interstate commerce brought suit in the District Court against thecar
company for the amount by which allowances received by the car
company from carriers for use of the cars exceeded the rental.
This Court, in General American Tank Car Corp. v. El Dorado
Terminal Co., 308 U. S. 422, ordered the District Court to stay its
hand until the Interstate Commerce Commission could determine
the administrative problems involved. In response to a petition of
the shipper, the Commission found that an allowance to the shipper in excess of the rental would be unjust, unreasonable and
unlawful, and ordered the proceeding before it discontinued. Held:
1. The action of the Commission was a reviewable '"order," and
a suit to enjoin or set it aside was within the jurisdiction of a
District Court of three judges. 28 U. S. C. §§ 41 (28), 47. P. 18.
2. The Commission's determination as to what constituted a
just and reasonable allowance to the shipper was valid although it
related to past transactions. P. 19.

EL DORADO OiL WORKS v. U. S.
12

Counsel for Parties.

(a) The Commission made its determination, as to the lawfulness of the past practices, upon the application of the shipper.
P. 19.
(b) The determination of the Commission was authorized by
the decision of this Court in the Tank Car case, as well as by the
Interstate Commerce Act. P. 19.
(c) The Commission was not required in this proceeding to
establish uniform rates for the future for all shippers. P. 20.
3. The finding of the Commission that the allowances to this
shipper were unjust and unreasonable was based on uniform treatment of all shipper-lessees, whom the Commission was justified in
treating as a class apart. P. 20.
4. It is the duty of the Commission to abolish all practices which
result in rebates or preferences. P. 21.
5. The fact. that the freight was paid by the consignees at the
regular rate does not preclude the finding that the practices here
in question involved rebates or preferences to the shipper which
are prohibited by the Interstate Commerce Act and the Elkins Act.
P. 22.
59 F. Supp. 738, affirmed.

Appellants' suit to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, 258 I. C. C. 371, was dismissed by
a District Court of three judges for want of jurisdiction,
59 F. Supp. 738, and appellants appealed to this Court.
Affirmed on other grounds, p. 22.
W. F. Williamson argued the cause and filed briefs for
appellants. H. Russell Bishop entered an appearance for
the El Dorado Oil Works, appellant.
Daniel W. Knowlton argued the cause for the United
States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellees. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
McGrath and Walter J. Cummings, Jr. Mr. Knowlton

also filed a brief for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Allan P. Matthew argued the cause for the General
American Transportation Corporation, appellee. With
him on the briefs were Kenneth F. Burgess and DouglasF.
Smith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

J. Carter Fort and Thomas L. Preston filed a brief for
the Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company et al.,
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellants filed a complaint in the District Court under
28 U. S. C. 41 (28), challenging action taken by the Interstate Commerce Commission allegedly pursuant to instructions contained in an earlier opinion rendered by this
Court in connection with these proceedings. 308 U. S. 422.

The District Court dismissed the complaint for want of
jurisdiction on the ground that the Commission's action
did not amount to a reviewable "order" within the meaning of 28 U. S. C. 41 (28). The case is before us on direct
appeal. 28 U. S. C. 345.
The following facts constitute the background of this
proceeding:
El Dorado Oil Works, one of the appellants, processes,
sells, and ships coconut oil in interstate commerce. Special kinds of tank cars are necessary for that distribution.

The appellee, General American Tank Car Corporation,1
owns tank cars which it rent' and leases to various shippers. In 1933, Oil Works made a contract with the Car
Company to rent, for a period of three years, fifty tank cars
at $27.50 per car per month, and such additional cars as it
might need at $30 per car per month. The outstanding
railroad tariffs, prescribing payment by the railroad of
11/20 per mile for the use of tank cars, contained rules which
provided that the mileage would be paid only to the
"party" whose "reporting marks" appeared on the cars.
During part of the rental period here in question the rules
provided that "mileage for the use of cars of private ownership will be paid . . . only to the car owner-not to a
I General American Transportation Corporation has become the
successor of the General American Tank Car Corporation.

EL DORADO OIL WORKS v. U. S.
12

Opinion of the Court.

lessee." Since under the agreement the cars were to bear
the "reporting marks" of the Car Company and not the
Oil Works, and since Oil Works was a lessee, no tariffs
authorized railroad mileage payments to Oil Works. Nevertheless, under the agreement Oil Works was to receive
the full mileage allowance prescribed by the tariffs. The
rent Oil Works was to pay to Car Company was to be taken
out by Car Company from the mileage allowances it received from the railroads and the balance was to be paid
by it to Oil Works. The railroad payments proved to be
greatly in excess of the rental obligations, and Car Company regularly paid the difference to Oil Works, until July
1, 1934.
July 2, 1934, the Interstate Commerce Commission,
after an exhaustive investigation, handed down its findings, opinion, and conclusion in Use of Privately Owned
Refrigerator Cars, 201 I. C. C. 323. It there drew a distinction between car owners as a class and car renters as
a class. It found that car owners must have sufficient
rental allowances, whether they rented to railroads or to
shippers; to pay a reasonable return on investment, taking
into consideration cost of maintenance, idle cars, etc. On
the other hand the Commission found that car renters had
no such fixed costs. The Commission's conclusion was
that costs of rented cars to a shipper, including rent and
incidentals, was the only allowance the shipper-lessee
should receive from a railroad, directly or indirectly, and
that if he receives more, the cost of transportation to him
would be less than the cost of transportation to shippers
generally, especially those who use cars furnished by the
carriers. To make the railroad pay more for use of a car
rented by a shipper than the rent he had to pay, was,
according to the Commission, a violation of § 15 (13) of
the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. 15 (13), in that
it required the railroad to pay more for the car than was

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
6pinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

"just and reasonable." The Commission was of the opinion that refunds of car mileage in excess of the rent
charged the shipper-lessee was the equivalent of an unlawful concession or rebate, prohibited by the Elkins Act.
While the Commission's findings were limited to refrigerator cars, it stated that "the general principles enunciated apply equally to all other types of private cars." Id.
at 382.
After the Commission's decision in the refrigerator
case, the Car Company declined to pay over to Oil Works
any part of the excess mileage. In 1935 El Dorado Terminal Company, one of the appellants acting as assignee
of Oil Works, brought suit against the Car Company to
recover accrued excess mileage earnings. Car Company
defended on the ground that further refunds would violate Interstate Commerce legislation, particularly the
Elkins Act. 49 U. S. C. 41. The district judge found
that the contract was in violation of the Elkins Act, and
rendered judgment for the Car Company. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed. 104 F. 2d 903. The Car
Company filed a petition for certiorari which was supported here by the Solicitor General and the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Their claim that the Circuit
Court of Appeals erred rested on the following major
grounds: (1) The railroad's payments to Car Company,
which provided no facilities to the railroad, were unauthorized; (2) since no published tariff authorized payments to a shipper-lessee such as Oil Works, its only
recourse to collect allowances for the cars it had furnished
was to institute proceedings before the Commission for
recovery of a reasonable allowance; (3) payment to Oil
Works of excess mileage earnings received by Car Company would violate the Elkins Act. In reply to the Commission's brief urging certiorari, Oil Works contended
that the case did not raise a question "within the administrative or primary control of the Commission."

EL DORADO OIL WORKS v. U. S.
12

Opinion of the Court.

We granted certiorari and reversed the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 308 U. S.422. While we rejected the Commission's contention that the District
Court had no jurisdiction to hear the case, we accepted
its contention that determination of the validity of the
challenged past practices was for the Commission. We
pointed out that the tariffs approved by the Commission
fixed no uniform rate to be paid by railroads to the shipper
directly for the use of cars originally rented by the shipper.
We pointed out further that Oil Works had never "applied
to the Commission for its decision as to what was a proper
allowance for the cars furnished by it." We said that the
Oil Works was "entitled, under the plain terms of § 15
(13) [of the Interstate Conmerce Act], to be paid by the
carrier a just and reasonable allowance" for providing the
cars. The opinion stated that questions such as whether
the shipper was "reaping a substantial profit from the
use of the cars," and whether, on the one hand, the "allowances and practices" were lawful and reasonable or, on the
other hand, violated the Elkins Act, were all administrative problems calling for investigation and determination
by the Commission. The District Court was accordingly
ordered to stay its hand so that the Commission could render its decision.
On remand Oil Works and Terminal Company filed a
petition with the Commission praying that it hold hearings and enter an order to the effect that Car Company
could pay the mileage earnings to Oil Works without violating the Elkins Act and that such payment would not
constitute a rebate or concession. The Commission found
that a just and reasonable allowance to Oil Works would
be the cost incurred by it in furnishing the cars, namely
the monthly rental to the Car Company, that any amount
in excess of that would be unjust and unreasonable in violation of § 15 (13) and would "constitute a rebate and
discrimina'ion and involve a departure from the tariff

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

rules applicable, prohibited by section 1 of the Elkins Act,
and section 6 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act . . ."2
The Commission further ordered that the proceeding
before it be discontinued. On this appeal both sides
argued the jurisdictional question as well as questions
going to the merits.
Before we reach the merits of the controversy we must
at the outset briefly dispose of the jurisdictional question.
As the facts already stated reveal, the Commission's findings and determination if upheld constitute far more than
an "abstract declaration." Rochester Telephone Corp. v.
United States, 307 U. S. 125, 143. "Legal consequences"
2 The

Commission did not rule that a shipper-lessee would always

be entitled to allowances equal to the cost to him of the cars he rented.
The Commission's opinion makes it clear that a shipper-lessee is only
entitled to receive a just and reasonable allowance for cars while they
are actually used by the railroad, even though this allowance might
be less than the car rent paid by the shipper. On that subject the
Commission said:
"In administering the provisions of section 15 (13) we have
consistently adhered to two principles, bearing in mind that we
were to prescribe the maximum amount which the carrier might
pay: (1) The amount paid should not be more than was just and
reasonable for the service or instrumentality furnished, and (2)
that the amount which might be paid should not exceed the reasonable cost to the owner of the goods of performing the service
or furnishing the instrumentality used. Whichever of these sums
was the lower marked the maximum the carrier might pay."
Here the Commission has applied these uniform criteria in such a way
as to permit the shipper-lessee to receive as much as the full rental
he paid. Were it not for these proceedings resulting from the Car
Company's refusal to continue payments to the shipper, the railroad
would havye had to pay as it did pay 11/20 per mile, which proved far
in excess -of the rental. It may be that in other cases a just and
rtasonable rate would fall below the rental. It may be that in this
case the rental exceeded what would be a just and reasonable allowance. with respect to the use of the cars by the railroad. But this
would serve to further reduce the rate to which appellants were
actually entitled; appellants, therefore, have no interest in challenging
the Commission's order on this point..

EL DORADO OIL WORKS v. U. S.
12

Opinion of the Court.

(id. at 132) would follow which would finally fix a "right
or obligation" (id. at 131) on appellants' part. These
findings are more than a mere "stage in an incomplete
process of administrative adjudication," for the Commission here has discontinued further proceedings. Id. at 143.
We, therefore, think that the Commission's action falls
within the class of "orders" which Rochester Telephone
Corp. v. United States, supra, held to be reviewable by a
district court of three judges. The District Court erred
in dismissing the complaint for want of jurisdiction.
On the merits, appellants' major contention is that the
Interstate Commerce Act and our earlier opinion in .this
case do not authorize the Commission to determine, as it
here has done, the justice and reasonableness of mileage
allowances which appellants were to receive on past transactions. The contention is that both our opinion and the
Act authorize the Commission to do no more than determine what uniform allowance shippers as a class would
be permitted to charge in the future. In part the argument is that insofar as the order is based on a treatment of
shipper-lessees as a class apart, and on a limitation of
their allowance to the cost to them of the cars they furnish,
the order is invalid, in that it neither rests on, nor brings
about, a uniform rate to all shippers, or even all shipperlessees. We cannot agree with the above contentions.
First, it must be noted that the Commission made its
determination as to the lawfulness of these past practices
on the basis of appellants' own application, asking the
Commission to do so. Second, our previous opinion, as
well as the Interstate Commerce Act, authorized the Commission to make this determination. The question before
us when this case was first here did not relate to future
but to past allowances. Relying on past decisions, we
held that the "reasonableness and legality" of the past
dealings here involved were matters which Congress had
entrusted to the Commission. See e. g. Great Northern R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S. 285, 291, and
other cases cited in our previous opinion. And we rejected appellants' petition for rehearing which presented
substantially the argument now repeated, namely that
any order the Commission might make "could only be
effective as to the future," that the Commission's determination "could not affect the contract . . . in this case,"

that the Commission's action would be "futile," and that
consequently our judgment and opinion would provide no
"guidance" for the District Court. Our first opinion, buttressed by our rejection of the motion for rehearing, was
a plain authorization for the Commission to determine
the justice and reasonableness of the past allowances to
this shipper. The Commission did not have to establish
future uniform rates to determine the questions we sent
to it. Consequently, insofar as appellants' argument is
that the Commission failed to treat all shippers or all
shipper-lessees uniformly because it did not fix future uniform rates, the answer is that it was not required to
do so.
Insofar as appellants' argument as to lack of uniform
treatment of shippers and shipper-lessees seeks to attack
the basis of the Commission's finding that the past allowances here were unjust and unreasonable, it also lacks
merit. We think the Commission's finding was based on
a uniform treatment of all shipper-lessees. While it is
true, as appellants contend, that under the Commission's
rule different shipper-lessees might receive different allowances, the rule is uniform in that it permits no shipperlessee to receive allowances exceeding the rental he pays.
All shipper-lessees are prohibited from making profits at
the expense of the railroads on cars rented to transport
goods in interstate commerce. Since the facts before the
Commission were enough to enable it to find that such
profits amount to rebates to shipper-lessees which result
in a discrimination against shippers that own cars or use

EL DORADO OIL WORKS v. U. S.
12

Opinion of the Court,

cars furnished by the railroad, the Commission was justified in treating shipper-lessees as a class apart. As the
Commission pointed out in its Refrigerator opinion, the
history of railroad practices shows that rebates, concessions, and favoritism have frequently grown out of the
private car system. Notwithstanding the very great
transportation service supplied by private cars, designed
and equipped to meet special needs, the Commission acts
within its power when it attempts to regulate their use so
as to put a stop to existing prohib-.ed evils. It must test
violations of the Interstate Commerce Act by results.
Union Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 313 U. S. 450, 462.
It is the duty of the Commission to nullify practices that
result in rebates or preferences, "whatever form they take
and in whatsoever guise they may appear," O'Keefe v.
United States, 240 U. S. 294, 297.1
The appellants' remaining contentions challenge the
sufficiency of the evidence. They rest primarily on the
premise that the Commission lacked authority to determine what we had directed it to find. Insofar as these
contentions rest on that premise, they have been disposed
of by what we have already said. The only contention as
to alleged insufficiency of evidence that requires further
3 Appellants contend that if the car rental cost is the maximum allowable payment, the mileage payments to the Car Company were
unlawful. That these payments by the railroad to Oil Works were
"apparently" unlawful and recoverable by the railroad, was the position taken by the Commission in its brief filed when this case was
first before us. And in our opinion we stated that since the shipper,
not the Car Company, had furnished the cars to the railroad, "It
seems clear that no rule or regulation of the carrier may provide for
the payment of such allowance to any other person" except Oil
Works. But appellants can not benefit from the unlawfulness of
payments to the Car Company. On the contrary, such a conclusion
would strengthen the position of the Commission, namely that a
"just and reasonable" allowance to Oil Works must be determined
by the Commission without regard t the mileage payments to Car
Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

328 U. S.

attention is that there could be no finding that the practices here involved resulted in rebates or concessions to Oil
Works, since the freight on the oils transported was not
paid by it, but was allegedly always paid by the consignees
and at the regular rate. Oil Works, however, was a shipper who supplied cars to be used as facilities for transportation. For supplying these cars, it could not consistently
with § 15 (13) receive from the railroad, directly or indirectly, more than a "just and reasonable" allowance.
This allowance was "in respect to transportation." See
Union Pacific R. Co. v. United States, supra, 462. Payment by the railroad of more than the just value of the
services inevitably resulted in its carrying Oil Works'
product at less than the regular freight rate, even though
it collected the full rate from the consignees. The reduced rate at which Oil Works could thus have its products
transported justified the Commigsion's finding that Oil
Works got a concession and an advantage over other shippers who made no such profits on tank cars. Whether Oil
Works or its consignees paid the freight makes no difference. Cf. Elgin, J. & E. R. Co. v. United States, 253 F.
907, 911. A practice which accomplishes this result is
prohibited by the Interstate Commerce Act and the Elkins
Act.
The judgment dismissing the complaint is affirmed, but
on the ground that the Commission's order is valid, and
that the appellants were consequently not entitled to the
relief prayed for.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACK9ON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
dissenting in part.
I do not think it should be left to the shipper and the
car owner to determine what portion of the tariff paid by
the railroad should be paid to the shipper. But that is
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

EL DORADO OIL WORKS v. U. S.
12

DOUGLAS,

J., diboenting in part.

exactly what the Court permits when it measures the shipper's allowance by the amount of rental he has agreed to
pay the car owner.
As Commissioner Splawn pointed out in his dissent
from the opinion of the Interstate Commerce Commission (258 I. C. C. 371, 382-383), the Commission in
following this course failed to comply with our opinion in
General American Tank Car Corp. v. El Dorado Terminal
Co., 308 U. S. 422. We there said (pp. 429-430):
"As the Circuit Court of Appeals has pointed out,
different shippers may have differing costs in respect
of privately owned cars furnished the carriers.
Nevertheless, as the allowances to be made them by
the carriers for the use of such cars must be the subject of published schedules, and must be just and
reasonable, the Commission is compelled to ascertain
in the light of past and present experience a fair and
reasonable compensation to cover such costs and prescribe a uniform rate which will reflect such experience. It is inevitable that some shippers may be
able to furnish facilities at less than the published
allowance while others may find their costs in excess
of it. This fact, however, does not militate against
the fixing of a uniform rate applicable 'to shippers
properly classified by the Commission." I
Unless that course is followed, a situation is sanctioned
in which concessions and discriminations condemned by § 1
'Sec. 15 (13) of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 15 (13),
provides:
"If the owner of property transported under this chapter
directly or indirectly renders any service connected with such
transportation, or furnishes any instrumentality used therein,

the charge and allowance therefor shall be published in tariffs or
schedules filed in the manner provided in this chapter and shall
be no more than is just and reasonable, and the commission may,
after hearing on a complaint or on its own initiative, determine
what is a reasonable charge as the maximum to be paid by the
carrier or carriers for the services so rendered or for the use of the
instrumentality so furnished, and fix the same by appropriate
order, which order shall have the same force and effect and be
enforced in like manner as the orders above provided for under

this section."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting in part.

328 U.S.

of the Elkins Act, 32 Stat. 847, 34 Stat. 587, 49 U. S. C.
§ 41. are likely to thrive.
There is a further objection to the course which the
Court sanctions. As stated by Commissioner Splawn in
his dissenting opinion (258 I. C. C. at 384):
"It is elementary that the form of an allowance for
the use of cars must be such as to reflect the extent
of the use by the railroads of the facilities furnished.
Whenever we have had occasion to determine such
allowances, we have prescribed either per diem or
mileage allowances. The railroads cannot be held
responsible for the amount of rent reserved by the
Car Corporation in an agreement with the shipper as
the car may be left idle during the entire period.
The car has value to the railroad only when it is used
in transporting lading and results in the payment of
freight charges."
Any allowance based on cost to the shipper rather than
on the use of the facility furnished violates that principle.
Only an appropriate uniform rate would obviate both of
the objections I have mentioned
I would remand the
2The Commission's finding was "That the rental paid or to be paid
by El Dorado Oil Works to General American Tank Car Corporation
under the terms of the lease agreement between those parties, dated
September 28, 1933, was tie only cost incurred by the former in furnishing the tank cars in which its shipments moved. A just and
reasonable allowance as a maximum to have been paid by the respondents, rail carrier or carriers, to the Oil Works for the furnishing of
such cars would have been an amount not to exceed such rental.
Such an amount and allowance has been paid to the Oil Works through
credits made to the account of the Oil Works by the Tank Car Corporation."
There are no facts of record which show the relationship between
the rental paid and the extent of the use by the railroads of the
facilities furnished. The Commission made no findings in that regard.
Whether a uniform rate which is just and reasonable would be
greater or less than the rental is wholly conjectural on the present
record.

