OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Statement of the Case.

328 U. S.

Hecht Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 321. If the eviction proceeding actually was a violation of the Regulation, then
Beever's vacating the premises was merely the completion
of one violation. The issue as to whether future violations should be enjoined was still before the Court and
was by no means moot.
The judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals are reversed and the cases are remanded to the District Court
for trial of the issues on the merits.
. It is so ordered.
took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

PORTER, PRICE ADMINISTRATOR, v. DICKEN
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1118.

Argued May 13, 1946.-Decided May 27, 1946.

Under § 205 of the Emergency Price Control Act, authorizing the Price
Administrator to bring injunction proceedings to enforce the-Act in

either state or federal courts, a federal district court has jurisdiction
to grant an injunction sought by the Price Administrator to restrain

eviction of a tenant under an order of a state court where the Administrator alleges that eviction would violate the Act and regulations
pursuant thereto-notwithstanding § 265 of the Judicial Code, which
forbids federal courts to grant injunctions to stay proceedings in
state courts except in bankruptcy proceedings. Pp. 254, 255.
Reversed and remanded.

A writ of possession to evict a tenant having been
issued by a state court, the Price Administrator sued
in a Federal District Court for an injunction to restrain
the eviction. The District Court dismissed the suit
for want of jurisdiction. The Circuit Court of Appeals
denied an application for an injunction prohibiting the

PORTER v. DICKEN.
252

Opinion of the Court.

eviction pending an appeal to that Court. Before judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals on the merits, this
Court granted certiorari. 328 U. S. 827.. Reversed and
remanded, p. 255.
Robert L. Stern argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,Milton
Klein and Irving M. Gruber.
Submitted on brief by respondents, pro se.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case, like Porter v. Lee, ante, p. 246, involves the
jurisdiction of the Federal District Court to grant an
injunction, sought by the Price Administrator under
§ 205 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act, to restrain
eviction of a tenant under an order of a state court where
the Administrator alleges that eviction would violate the
Act and. valid regulations promulgated pursuant to it.
Briefly stated the circumstances of the controversy are
these: B. M. Murray, as executor of an estate, pursuant
to authority granted him by the Probate Court of Franklin County, Ohio, sold a house located within the Columbus Defense Rental Area. A writ of possession directing
the sheriff of the County to evict the tenant and to place
the respondent purchasers in possession was obtained in
the Probate Court. No certificate authorizing the eviction was sought or obtained from the Price Administrator
as is required by § 6 of the Rent Regulation for Housing.
10 F. R. 3436, 13528. Before the sheriff executed the writ
the Price Administrator brought this action for an injunction in the Federal District Court. The District Court
issued a temporary restraining order but later dismissed
the complaint on the ground that § 265 of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. 379, deprived the Federal District Court
of jurisdiction to stay the proceedings in the state court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

This section provides that: "The writ of injunction shall
not be granted by any court of the United States to stay
proceedings in any court of a State, except in cases where
such injunction may be authorized by any law relating to
proceedings in bankruptcy." The District Court in dismissing the cause entered an order restraining respondents
from evicting the tenant pending determination by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for an application for an injunction prohibiting the eviction pending an appeal to that
Court. The Administrator made this application in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, but it was denied, thus removing
all obstacles to eviction of the tenant. The Circuit Court
of Appeals has not heard this case. In order to prevent
eviction of the tenant, the Administrator sought and obtained from Mr. Justice Reed an injunction pending final
disposition of this case in this Court and applied for certiorari directly to this Court under § 240 (a) of the Judicial
Code, which authorizes us to grant certiorari "either before
or after a judgment or decree by such lower court . . ."
We were prompted to bring the District Court's judgment
directly to this Court for review by reason of the close
relationship of the important question raised to the question presented in Porterv. Lee, ante, p. 246.
The District Court was of the opinion that since § 205
(c) of the Act gave concurrent jurisdiction to state courts
to grant relief by injunction, the policy of § 265 against
federal injunctions of state proceedings should not be considered impaired by the Emergency Price Control Act.
The District Court's conclusion was that if the Administrator wanted an injunction to restrain eviction under
state court procedure he should have gone into some state
court that had jurisdiction of the cause. The District
Court erred in holding that the policy of § 265 of the
Judicial Code should not be considered impaired by the
Emergency Price Control Act. While we realize that
§ 265 embodies a long-standing governmental policy to

PORTER v. DICKEN.
252

Opinion of the Court.

prevent unnecessary friction between state and federal
courts, Toucey v. New York Life Insurance Co., 314 U. S.
118, we still hold as we held in Bowles v. Willingham, 321
U. S. 503, that § 205 of the Price Control Act which authorizes the Price Administrator to seek injunctive relief
in appropriate courts, including federal district courts, is
an implied legislative amendment to § 265, creating an
exception to its broad prohibition.' This is true because
§ 205 authorizes the Price Administrator to bring injunction proceedings to enforce the Act in either state or federal courts, and this authority is broad enough to justify
an injunction to restrain state court evictions. But if
§ 265 controls, as the District Court held, the Adminiltrator here could not proceed in the federal court, since
there is a proceeding pending in a state court. Since the
provisions of the Price Control Act, enacted long after
§ 265, do not compel the Administrator to go into the state
courts but leave him free to seek relief in the federal courts,
he was not barred by § 265 from seeking an injunction to
restrain an unlawful eviction. Cf. Hale v. Bimco Trading, Inc., 306 U. S. 375.
The judgment of the District Court is reversed and the
case is remanded to that Court to exercise the jurisdiction
conferred upon it by § 205 of the Emergency Price Control
Act.
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
' An alternative reason given for the decision in the Willingham
case was that, since the state court there was attempting to enjoin the
Administrator from performing his duties under the Act, the District

Court had power both under § 205 (a) of the Act and § 24 (1) of
the Judicial Code to protect the exclusive federal jurisdiction which
Congress had granted. But our opinion did not, as the District Court
thought, depend entirely on this alternative ground.

