OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. CAUSBY ET UX.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 630.

Argued May 1, 1946.-Decided May 27, 1946.

Respondents owied a dwelling and a chicken farm near a municipal
airport. The afe path of glide to one of the runways of the airport
passed directly over respondents' property at 83 feet, which was 67
feet above the house, 63 feet above the barn and 18 feet-above tlfe
highest tree. It was used 4% of the time in taking off and 7% of
the time in landing. The Government leased the use of the a port
for a term of one month commencing June 1, 1942, with a provision
for renewals until June 30, 1967, or six months after the end of the
national emergency, whichever was earlier. Various military aircraft of the United States used the airport. They frequently came
so close to respondents' property that they barely missed the tops
of trees, the noise was startling, and the glare from their landing
* lights lighted the place up brightly at night. This destroyed the
use of the property as a chicken farm and caused loss of sleep,
nervousness and fright on the part of respondents. They sued in
theF Court *of Claims to recover for an alleged taking of their prop'erty and for damages to their poultry business. The Court of
Claims found that the Government had taken an easement over
.respondents'.property and that the value of the property destroyed
_,nd the easement taken was $2,000; but it made no finding as to
the precise nature or duration of theeasement. Held:
1 1. A servitude has been imposed upon the land
for which respondents are entitled to compensation under the. Fifth Amendment.
Pp. 260-267.
(a) The common law doctrine that ownership of land extends
to the periphery of the universe has no place in the modern world.
Pp. 260, 261.
(b) The air above the minimum safe altitude of flight prescribed by the Civil Aeronautics Authority is a public highway and
part of the public domain, as declkred by Congress in the Air Commerce Act of 1926, as amended by the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938.
Pp. 260, 261,266.
(c) Flights below that altitude are not within the navigable air
space which Congress placed within the public domain, even though
they are within the path of glide approved by the Civil Aeronautics
Authority. Pp. 263, 264.

UNITED STATES v. CAUSBY.
256

257

Counsel for Parties.

(d) Flights of aircraft over private land which are so low and
frequent as to be a direct and immediate interference with the
enjoyment and use of the land are as much' an appropiation of
the use of the land as a more conventional entry upon it. Pp.
261, 262, 264-267.
2. Since there was a taking of private property for public use,
the claim was "founded upon the Constitution," within the meaning
of § 141 (1) of the Judicial Code, and the Court of Claims had jurisdiction to hear and determine it. P.267.
3. Since the court's findings of fact contain no precise description
of the nature or duration of the easement taken, the judgment is
reversed and the cause is remanded to the Court of Claims, so that
it may make the necessary findings. Pp. 267, 268.
(a) An accurate description of the easement taken is essential,
since that interest vests in the United States. P. 267.
(b) Findings of fact on every "material issue" are a statutory
requirement, and a deficiency in the findings can not be rectified by
statements in the opinion. Pp. 267, 268.
(c) A conjecture in lieu of a conclusion from evidence would
not be a proper foundation for liability of the United States.
-

P. 268.

104 Ct. Cls. 342, 60 F. Supp. 751, reversed and remanded.

The Court of Claims granted respondents a' judgnent
for the value of property destroyed and damage to their
property resulting from the taking- of an easement over

their property by low-flying military aircraft of the United
States, but failed to include in its findings of fact a specific
description of the nature or duration of the easement.
104 Ct. Cls. 342, 60 F. Supp. 751. This Court granted
certiorari. 327 U. S. 775. Reversed and remanded,
p. 268.
Walter J. Cummings, Jr.argued the cause for the United

States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
McGrath, J. Edward Williams, Roger P. Marquis and
Alvin 0. West.
William E. Comer argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This is a case of first impression. The problem presented is whether respondents' property was taken, within
the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, by frequent and
regular flights of army and navy aircraft over respondents'

land at low altitudes. The Court of Claims held that
there was a taking and entered judgment for respondents,
one judge dissenting. 104 Ct. Cls. 342, 60 F. Supp. 751.

The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which
we granted because of the importance of the question
presented.
Respondents own 2.8 acres near an airport outside of
Greensboro, North Carolina. It has on it a dwelling
house, and also various outbuildings which were mainly

used for raising chickens. The end of the airport's northwest-southeast runway is 2,220 feet from respondents'
barn and 2,275 feet from their house. The path of glide
to this runway passes directly over the property-which
is 100 feet wide and 1,200 feet long. The 30 to 1 safe
glide angle' approved by the Civil Aeronautics Authority 2 passes over this property at 83 feet, which is 67 feet
above the house, 63 feet above the barn and 18 feet above
the highest tree? The use by the United States of this
airport is pursuant to a lease executed in May, 1942, for
a term commencing June 1, 1942 and ending June 30, 1942,
with a provision for renewals until June 30, 1967, or six
1A

30 to 1 glide angle means one foot of elevation or descent for
every 30 feet of horizontal distance.
2 Military planes are subject to the rules of the Civil Aeronautics
Board where, as in the present case, there are no Army or Navy regulations to the contrary. Cameron v. Civil Aeronautics Board, 140 F.
2d 482.
3 The house is approximately 16 feet high, the barn 20 feet, and the
tallest tree 65 feet.

UNITED STATES v. CAUSBY.
256

259

Opinion of the Court.

months after the end of the national emergency, whichever is the earlier.
Various aircraft of the United States use this airportbombers, transports and fighters. The direction of the
prevailing wind determines when a particular runway is
used. The northwest-southeast runway in question is
used about four per cent of the time in taking off and about
seven per cent of the time in landing. Since the United
States began operations in May, 1942, its four-motored
heavy bombers, other planes of the heavier type, and its
fighter planes have frequently passed over respondents'
land and buildings in considerable numbers and rather
close together. They come close enough at times to appear barely to miss the tops of the trees and at times so
close to the tops of the trees as to blow the old leaves off.
The noise is startling. And at night the glare from the
planes brightly lights up the place. As a result of the
noise, respondents had to give up their chicken business.
As many as six to ten of their chickens were killed in one
day by flying into the walls from fright. The total
chickens lost in that manner was about 150. Production
also fell off. The result was the destruction of the use of
the property as a commercial chicken farm. Respondents
are frequently deprived of their sleep and the family has
become nervous and frightened. Although there have
been no airplane accidents on respondents' property, there
have been several accidents near the airport and close to
respondents' place. These are the essential facts found
by the Court of Claims. On the basis of these facts, it
found that respondents' property had depreciated in
value. It held that the United States had taken an easement over the property on June 1, 1942, and that the value
of the property destroyed and the easement taken was
$2,000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

L The United States relies on the Air Commerce Act
of 1926, 44 Stat. 568, 49 U. S. C. § 171, as amended by the
Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, 52 Stat. 973, 49 U. S. C.
§ 401. Under those statutes the United States has "completerand exclusive national sovereignty in the air space"
ov0er this co~lntry. 49 U. S. C. § 176 (a). They grant
,any citizen qft tho United States "a public right of freedom
of transit in,
Air, commerce 4 through the navigable air
space of the United States." 49 U. S. C. §.403. And
"navigable air space" is defined as "airspace above the
minimum safe altitudes of flight prescribed by the Civil
Aeronautics Authority." 49 U. S. C. § 180. And it is
provided that "such navigable airspace shall be subject
to a public right of freedom of interstate and foreign air
navigationS." Id. It is, therefore, argued that since these
flights were within the minimum safe altitudes of flight
which had been prescribed, they were an exercise of the
declared right of travel through the airspace. The United
States concludes that when flights are made within the
navigable airspace without any physical invasion of the
property of the landowners, there has been no taking of
property. It says that at most there was merely incidental damage occurring as a.consequence of authorized
air navigation. It also argues that the landowner does
not own superadjacent airspace which he has not subjected
to possession by the erection of structures or other occupancy. Moreover, it is argued that even if the United
States took airspace owned by respondents, no compensable damage was shown. Any damages are said to be
merely consequential for which no compensation may be
obtained under the Fifth Amendment.
It is ancient doctrine that at common law ownership of
the land extended to the periphery of the universe--Cuju8
' "Air commerce" is defined as including "any operation or navigation of aircraft which directly affects, or which may endanger safety in,
interstate, overseas, or foreign air commerce." 49 U. S. C. § 401 (3).

UNITED STATES v. CAUSBY.
256

Opinion of the Court.

est solum ejus est usque ad coelum.' But that doctrine
has no place in the modern world. The air is a public
highway, as Congress has declared. Were that not true,
every transcontinental flight would subject the operator
to countless trespass suits. Common sense revolts at the
idea. To recognize such private claims to the airspace
would clog these highways, seriously interfere with their
control and development in the public interest, and transfer into private ownership that to which only the public
has a just claim.
But that general principle does not control the present
case. For the United States conceded on oral argument
that if the flights over respondents' property rendered it
uninhabitable, there would be a taking compensable under
the Fifth Amendment. It is the owner's loss, not the
taker's gain, which is the measure of the value of the
property taken. United States v. Miller, 317 U. S. 369.
Market value fairly determined is the normal measure of
the recovery. Id. And that value may reflect the use to
which the land could readily be converted, as well as the
existing use. United States v. Poiwelson, 319 U. S.266,
275, and cases cited. If, by reason .of the frequency and
altitude of the flights, respondents could not use this land
for any purpose, their loss would be complete.' It would
be as complete as if the United States had entered upon
the surface of the land and taken exclusive possession
of it.
We agree that in those 61tcumstances there would be a
taking. Though it \iould be oiily'an easement'of flight
5 1 Coke, Institutes (19th ed. 1832.eh.. 1 § 1 (4a); 2 Blackstone,
Commentaries (Lewis ed. 1902),_18;, -3Kent, Commentaries (Gould
621.
ed. 1896) p.
6

The destruction of all uses of the property by flooding has beeh

held to constitute a taking. Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall.
166; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; United States v. Welch,
217 U. S. 333.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

which was taken, that easement, if permanent and not
merely temporary, normally would be the equivalent of
a fee interest. It would be a definite exercise of complete
dominion and control over the surface of the land. The
fact that the planes never touched the surface would be
as irrelevant as the absence in this day of the feudal livery
of seisin on the transfer of real estate. The owner's right
to possess and exploit the land-that is to say, his beneficial ownership of it-would be destroyed. It would not
be a case of incidental damages arising from a legalized
nuisance such as was involved in Richards v. Washington
Terminal Co., 233 U. S. 546. In that case, property owners
whose lands adjoined a railroad line were denied recovery
for damages resulting from the noise, vibrations, smoke
and the like, incidental to the operations of the trains. In
the supposed case, the line of flight is over the land. And
the land is appropriated as directly and completely as if
it were used for the runways themselves.
There is no material difference between the supposed
case and the present one, except that here enjoyment and
use of the land are not completely destroyed. But that
does not seem to us to be controlling. The path of glide
for airplanes might reduce a valuable factory site to grazing land, an orchard to a vegetable patch, a residential
section to a wheat field. Some value would remain: But
the use of the airspace immediately above the land would
limit the utility of the land and cause a diminution in its
value.7 That was the philosophy of Portsmouth Co. v.
7It was stated in United States v. General Motors Corp., 323 U. S.
373, 378, "The courts have held that the deprivation of the former
owner rather than the accretion of a right or interest to the sovereign
constitutes the taking. Governmental action short of acquisition of
title or occupancy has been held, if its effects are so complete as to
deprive the owner of all or most of his interest in the subject matter,
to amount to a taking." The present case falls short of the General
Motors case. This is not a case where the United States has merely

UNITED STATES v. CAUSBY.
256

Opinion of the Court.

United States, 260 U. S. 327. In that case the petition
alleged that the United States erected a fort on nearby
land, established a battery and a fire control station there,
and fired guns over petitioner's land. The Court, speaking through Mr. Justice Holmes, reversed the Court of
Claims, which dismissed the petition on a demurrer, holding that "the specific facts set forth would warrant a finding that a servitude has been imposed." ' 260 U. S. p.
330. And see Delta Air Corp. v. Kersey, 193 Ga. 862, 20
S. E. 2d 245. Cf. United States v. 857.25 Acres of Land,
55 F. Supp. 461.
The fact that the path of glide taken by the planes was
that approved by the Civil Aeronautics Authority does not
change the result. The navigable airspace which Congress has placed in the public domain is "airspace above
the minimum safe altitudes of flight prescribed by the
Civil Aeronautics Authority." 49 U. S. C. § 180. If that
agency prescribed 83 feet as the minimum safe altitude,
then we would have presented the question of the validity
of the regulation. But nothing of the sort has been done.
The path of glide governs the method of operating-,of
landing or taking off. The altitude required for that operation is not the minimum safe altitude of flight which is
the downward reach of the navigable airspace. The minimum prescribed by the Authority is 500 feet during the
day and 1,000 feet at night for air carriers (Civil Air Regulations, Pt. 61, §§ 61.7400, 61.7401, Code Fed. Reg. Cum.
Supp., Tit. 14, ch. 1), and from 300 feet to 1,000 feet for
destroyed property. It is using a part of it for the flight of its

planes.
Cf. Warren Township School Dist. v. Detroit, 308 Mich. 460, 14
N. W. 2d 134; Smith v. New England Aircraft Co., 270 Mass. 511,
170 N. E. 385; Burnham v. Beverly Airways, Inc., 311 Mass. 628,
42 N. E. 2d 575.
8 On remand the allegations in the petition were found not to be
supported by the facts. 64 Ct. Cls. 572.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

other aircraft, depending on the type of plane and the
character of the terrain. Id., Pt. 60, §§ 60.350-60.3505,
Fed. Reg. Cum. Supp., supra. Hence, the flights in question were not within thie navigable airspace which Congress placed within the public domain. If any airspace
needed for landing or taking off were included, flights
which were so close to the land as to render it uninhabitable would be immune. But the United States concedes,
as we have said, that in that event there would be a taking.
Thus, it is apparent that the path of glide is not the minimum safe altitude of flight within the meaning of the
statute. The Civil Aeronautics Authority has, of course,
the power to prescribe air traffic rules: But Congress has
defined navigable airspace only in terms of one of them-the minimum safe altitudes of flight.
We have said that the airspace is a public highway. Yet
it is obvious that if the landowner is to have full enjoyment of the land, he must have exclusive control of the
immediate reaches of the enveloping atmosphere. Otherwise buildings could not be erected, trees could not be
planted, and even fences could not be run. The principle
is recognized when the law gives a remedy in case overhanging structures are erected on adjoining land. The
landowner owns at least as much of the space above the
ground as he can occupy or use in connection with the
land. See Hinman v. Pacific Air Transport,84 F. 2d 755.
The fact that he does not occupy it in a physical senseby the erection of buildings and the like-is not material.
As we have said, the flight of airplanes, which skim the
surface but do not touch it, is as much an appropriation
of the use of the land as a more conventional entry upon
it. We would not doubt that, if the United States erected
9 Baten's Case, 9 Coke R. 53b; Meyer v. Metzler, 51 Cal. 142;
Codman v. Evans, 89 Mass. 431; Harringtonv. McCarthy, 169 Mass.
492, 48 N. E. 278. See Ball, The Vertical Extent of Ownership in
Land, 76 U. Pa. L. Rev. 631, 658-671.

UNITED STATES v. CAUSBY.
256

Opinion of the Court.

an elevated railway over respondents' land at the precise
altitude where its planes now fly, there would be a partial
taking, even though none of the supports of the structure
rested on the land.'" The reason is that there would be
an intrusion so immediate and direct as to subtract from
the owner's full enjoyment of the property and to limit
his exploitation of it. While the owner does not in any
physical manner occupy that stratum of airspace or make
use of it in the conventional sense, he does use it in somewhat the same sense that space left between buildings for
the purpose of light and air is used. The superadjacent
airspace at this low altitude is so close to the land that
continuous invasions of it affect the use of the surface of
the land itself. We think that the landowner, as an incident to his ownership, has a claim to it and that invasions
of it are in the same category as invasions of the surface."
In this case, as in Portsmouth Co. v. United States
supra, the damages were not merely consequential. They
were the product of a direct invasion of respondents' dowas held in Butler v. Frontier Telephone Co., 186 N. Y. 486,
79 N. E. 716, that ejectment would lie where a telephone wire was
strung across the plaintiff's property, even though it did not touch
10It

the soil.

The court stated, pp. 491-492: ".

.

. an owner is entitled

to the absolute and undisturbed possession of every part of his premises, including the space above, as much as a mine beneath. If the
wire had been a huge cable, se~ieral inches thick and but a foot above
the ground, there would have been a difference ii. degree, but not in
principle. Expand the wire into a beam supported by posts standing
upon abutting lots without touching the surface of plaintiff's land,
and the difference would still be one of degree only. Enlarge the beam
into a bridge, and yet space only would be occupied. Erect a house
upon the bridge, and the air above the surface of the land would alope
be disturbed."
"ISee Bouv6, Private Ownership of Navigable Airspace Under the
Commerce Clause, 21 Amer. Bar Assoc. Journ. 416, 421-422; Hise,
Ownership and Sovereignty of the Air, 16 Ih. L. Rev. 169; Eubank,
The Doctrine of the Airspace Zone of Effective Possession, 12 Boston
Univ. L. Rev. 414.

266

OCTOBER TERM 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

main. As stated in United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316,
328, ". . . it is the character of the invasion, not the
amount of damage resulting from it, so long as the damage
is substantial, that determines the question whether it is
a taking."
We said in United States v. Powelson, supra, p. 279,
that while the meaning of "property" as used in the Fifth
Amendment was a federal question, "it will normally obtain its content by reference to local law." If we look to
North Carolina law, we reach the same result. Sovereignty in the airspace rests in the State "except where
granted to and assumed by the United States." Gen.
Stats. 1943, § 63-11. The flight of aircraft is lawful "unless at such a low altitude as to interfere with the then
existing use to which the land or water, or the space over
the land or water, is put by the owner, or unless so condueted as to be imminently dangerous to persons or property lawfully on the land or water beneath." Id., § 63-13.
Subject to that right of flight, "ownership of the space
above the lands and waters of this State is declared to be
vested in the several owners of the surface beneath . . ."
Id., § 63-12. Our holding that there was an invasion of
respondents' property is thus not inconsistent with the
local law governing a landowner's claim to the immediate
reaches of the superadjacent airspace.
The airplane is part of the modern environment of life,
and the inconveniences which it causes are normally not
compensable under the Fifth Amendment. The airspace,
apart from the immediate reaches above the land, is part
of the public domain. We need not determine at this time
what those precise limits are. Flights over private land
are not a taking, unless they are so low and so frequent as
to be a direct and immediate interference with the enjoyment and use of the land. We need not speculate on that
phase of the present case. For the findings of the Court

UNITED STATES v. CAUSBY.
256

Opinion of the Court.

of Claims plainly establish that there was a diminution
in value of the property and that the frequent, low-level
flights were the direct and immediate cause. We agree
with the Court of Claims that a servitude has been inr
posed upon the land.
II. By § 145 (1) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 250
(1), the Court of Claims has jurisdiction to hear and determine "All claims (except for pensions) founded upon the
Constitution of the United States or . . . upon any contract, express or implied, with the Government of the
United States . . ."
We need not decide whether repeated trespasses might
give rise to ah implied contract. Cf. Portsmouth Co. v.
United States, supra. If there is a taking, the claim is
"founded'upon the Constitution" and within the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to hear and determine. See
Hollister v. Benedict Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 59, 67; Hurley v.
Kincaid, 285 U. S. 95, 104; Yearsley v. Ross Construction
Co., 309 U. S. 18, 21. Thus, the jurisdiction of the Court
of Claims in this case is clear.
III. The Court of Claims held, as we have noted, that
an easement was taken. But the find.ings of fact contain
no precise description as to its nature. It is not described
in terms of frequency of flight, permissible altitude, or
type of airplane. :Nor is there a finding as to whether
the easement taken was temporary or permanent. Yet
an accurate description of the property taken is essential,
since that interest vests in the United States. United
States v. Cress, supra, 328-329 and cases cited. It is true
that the Court of Claims stated in its opinion that the
easement taken was permanent. But the deficiency in
findings cannot be rectified by statements in the opinion.
United States v. Esnault-Pelterie,299 U. S. 201, 205-206;
United States v. Seminole Nation, 299 U. S. 417, 422.
Findings of fact on every "material issue" are a statutory

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

328 U.S.

requirement. 53 Stat. 752, 28 U. S. C. § 288. The importance of findings of fact based on evidence is emphasized here by the Court of Claims' treatment of the nature
of the easement. It stated in its opinion that the ease,aent was permanent because the United States "no doubt
intended to make some sort of arrangement whereby it
could use the airport for its military planes whenever it
had occasion to do so." That sounds more like conjecture
rather than a conclusion from evidence; and if so, it would
not be a proper foundation for liability of the United
States. We do not stop to examine the evidence to determine whether it would support such a finding, if made.
For that is not our function. United States v. EsnaultPelterie,supra, p. 206.
Since on this record it is not clear whether the easement
taken is a permanent or a temporary one, it would bepremature for us to consider whether the amount of the
award made by the Court of Claims was proper.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the Court of Claims so that it may make the necessary
findings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of thi3 case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

The Fifth Amendment provides that "private property" shall not "be taken for public use without just compensation." The Court holds today that the Government
has "taken" respondents' property by repeatedly flying
Army bombers directly above respondents' land at a height
of eighty-three feet where the light and noise'from these
planes caused respondents to lose sleep and their chickens
to be killed. Since the effect of the Court's decision is

UNITED STATES v. CAUSBY.
256

BLACK, J.,

269

dissenting.

to limit, by the imposition of relatively absolute constitutional barriers, possible future adjustments through
legislation and regulation which might become necessary
with the growth of air transportation, and since in my
view the Constitution does not contain such barriers, I
dissent.
The following is a brief statement of the background
and of the events that the Court's opinion terms a "taking"
within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment: Since 1928
there has been an airfield some eight miles from Greensboro, North Carolina. In April, 1942, this airport was
taken over by the Greensboro-High Point Municipal Airport Authority and it has since then operated as a municipal airport. In 1942 the Government, by contract,
obtained the right to use the field "concurrently, jointly,
and in common" with other users. Years before, in 1934,
respondents had bought their property, located more than.
one-third of a mile from the airport. Private planes from
the airport flew over their land and farm buildings from
1934 to 1942 and are still doing so. But though these
planes disturbed respondents to some extent, Army bombers, which started to fly over the land in 1942 at a height
of eighty-three feet, disturbed them more because they
were larger, came -over more frequently, made a louder
noise, and at night a greater glare was caused by their
lights. This noise and glare disturbed respondents' sleep,
frightened them, and made them nervous. The noise and
light also frightened respondents' chickens so much that
many of them flew against buildings and were killed.
The Court's opinion seems to indicate that the mere
flying of planes through the column of air directly above
respondents' land does not constitute a "taking." Consequently, it appears to be noise and glare, to the extent and
under the circumstances shown here, which make the Government a seizer of private property. But the allegation

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BLACK,

J., diuenting.

328 U. S.

of noise and glare resulting in damages, constitutes at best
an action in tort where there might be recovery if the noise
and light constituted a nuisance, a violation of a statute,"
or were the result of negligence! But the Government
has not consented to be sued in the Court of Claims except
in actions based on express or implied contract. And
there is no implied contract here, unless by reason of the
noise and glare caused by the bombers the Government
can be said to have "taken" respondents' property in a
constitutional sense. The concept of taking property as
used in the Constitution has heretofore never been given
so sweeping a meaning. The Court's opinion presents no
case where a man who makes noise or shines light onto his
neighbor's property has been ejected from that property
for wrongfully taking possession of it. Nor would anyone
take seriously a claim that noisy automobiles passing on
a highway are taking wrongful possession of the homes
located thereon, or that a city elevated train which greatly
interferes with the sleep of those who live next to it wrongfully takes their property. Even the one case in this
Court which in considering the sufficiency of a complaint
gave the most elastic meaning to the phrase "private
property be taken" as used in the Fifth Amendment, did
not go so far. Portsmouth Co. v. United States, 260 U. S.
1 Neiswonger v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 35 F. 2d 761.
2 As to the damage to chickens, Judge Madden, dissenting from this
judgment against the Government, said, "When railroads were new,
cattle in fields in sight and hearing of the trains were alarmed, thinking that the great moving objects would turn aside and harm them.
Horses ran away at the sight and sound of a train or a threshing
machine engine. The farmer's chickens have to get over being alarmed
at the incredible racket of the tractor starting up suddenly in the Ahed
adjoining the chicken house. These sights and noises are a part of
our world, and airplanes are now and will be to a greater degree, likewise a part of it. These disturbances should not be treated as torts,
in the case of the airplane, any more than they are so treated in the
case of the railroad or public highway." 104 Ct. Cis. 342, 358.

UNITED STATES v. CAUSBY.
256

BLACK, J.,

dissenting.

327. I am not willing, nor do I think the Constitution
and the decisions authorize me, to extend that phrase so
as to'guarantee an absolute constitutional right to relief
not subject to legislative change, which is based on averments that at best show mere torts committed by government agents while flying over land. The future adjustment of the rights and remedies of property owners, which
might be found necessary because of the flight of planes
at safe altitudes, should, especially in view of the imminent expansion of air navigation, be left where I think the
Constitution left it, with Congress.
Nor do I reach a different conclusion because of the fact
that the particular circumstance which under the Court's
opinion makes the tort here absolutely actionable, is the
passing of planes through a column of air at an elevation
of eighty-three feet directly over respondents' property.
It is inconceivable to me that the Constitution guarantees
that the airspace of this Nation needed for air navigation
is owned by the particular persons who happen to own
the land beneath to the same degree as they own the surface below.' No rigid constitutional rule, in my judgment, commands that the air must be considered as
marked off into separate compartmEnts by imaginary
metes and bounds in order to synchronize air ownership
with land ownership. I think that the Constitution entrusts Congress with full power to control all navigable
airspace. Congress has already acted under that power.
It has by statute, 44 Stat. 568, 52 Stat. 973, provided that
"the United States of America is . . . to possess and exercise complete and exclusive national sovereignty in the
The House in its report on the Air Commerce Act of 1926 stated:
"The public right of flight in the navigable air space owes its
source to the same constitutional basis which, under decisions of
the Supreme Court, has given rise to a public easement of navigation in the navigable waters of the United States, regardless
of the ownership of the adjacent or subjacent soil." H. Rep. No.
572, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 10.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

328 U. S,

air space above the United States . . ." This was done
under the assumption that the Commerce Clause of the
Constitution gave Congress the same plenary power to
control navigable airspace as its plenary power over navigable waters. H. Rep. No. 572, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p.10; H. Rep. No. 1162, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 14; see
United States v. Commodore Park, 324 U. S. 386. To
make sure that the airspace used for air navigation would
remain free, Congress further declared that "navigable
airspace shall be subject to a public right, of freedom of
interstate and foreign air navigation," and finally stated
emphatically that there exists "a public right of freedom
of transit . . . through' the navigable air space of the
United Staies." Congress thus declared that the air is
free, not subject to private ownership, and not subject to
delimitation '-y the courts. Congress and those acting
under its authority were the only ones who had power to
control and regulate the flight of planes. "Navigable airspace" was defined as "airspace above the minimum safe
altitudes of flight prescribed by the Civil Aeronautics
Authority . . ." 49 U. S. C. § 180. Thus, Congress has
given the Civil Aeronautics Authority exclusive power to
determine what is navigable airspace subject to its exclusive control. This power derives specifically from the
Section which authorizes the Authority to prescribe "air
traffic rules governing the flight of, and for the navigation,
protection, and identification of, aircraft, including' rules
as to safe altitudes of flight and rules for the prevention
of collisions between aircraft, and between aircraft and
land or water vehicles." Here there was no showing that
the bombers flying over respondents' land violated any
rule or regulation of the Civil Aeronautics Authority.
Yet, unless we hold the Act unconstitutional, at least such
a showing would be necessary before the courts could act
without interfering with the exclusive authority which
Congress gave to the administrative agency. Not even a

UNITED STATES v. CAUSBY.
256

273

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

showing that the Authority has not acted would be sufficient. For in that event, were the courts to have any
authority to act in this case at all, they should stay their
hand till the Authority has acted.
The broad provisions of the congressional statute cannot properly be circumscribed by making a distinction,
as the Court's opinion does, between rules of safe altitude
of flight while on the level of cross-countfy flight and rules
of safe altitude during landing and taking off. First, such
a distinction cannot be maintained. from the practical
standpoint. It is unlikely that Congress intended that
the Authority prescribe safe altitudes for planes making
cross-country flights, while at the same time it left the
more hazardous landing and take-off operations unregulated. The legislative history, moreover, clearly shows
that the Authority's power to prescribe air traffic rules
includes the power to make rules governing landing and
take-off. Nor is the Court justified in ignoring that history by labeling rules of safe altitude while on the level
of cross-country flight as rules prescribing the safe altitude
proper and rules governing take-off and landing as rules
of operation. For the Conference Report explicitly states
that such distinctions were purposely eliminated from the
original House Bill in order that the Section on air traffic
rules "might be given the broadest possible construction by the . . . [Civil Aeronautics Authority] and the

courts."
2

2

In construing the statute narrowly, the Court

The full statement reads:
"The substitute provides that the Secretary shall by regulation
establish air traffic rules for the navigation, protection, and identification of all aircraft, including rules as to safe altitudes of
flight and rules for the prevention of collisions between vessels
and aircraft. The provision as to rules for taking off and alighting, for instance, was eliminated as unnecessary specification, for
the reason that such rules are but one class of air traffic rules
for the navigation and protection of aircraft. Rules as to marking were eliminated for the reason that such rules were fairly
included within the scope of air rules for the identification of air-

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

thwarts the intent of Congress. A proper broad construction, such .as Congress commanded, would not permit the
Court to decide what it has today without declaring the
Act of Congress unconstitutional. I think the Act given
the broad construction intended is constitutional.
No greater confusion could be brought about in the
coming age of air transportation than that which would
result were courts by constitutional interpretation to hamper Congress in its efforts to keep the air free. Old concepts of private ownership of land should not be introduced into the field of air regulation. I have no doubt
that Congress will, if not handicapped by judicial interpretations of the Constitution, preserve the freedom of
the air, and at the same time, satisfy the just claims of
aggrieved persons. The noise of newer, larger, and more
powerful planes may grow louder and louder and disturb
people more and more. But the solution of the problems
precipitated by these technological advances and new
ways of living cannot come about through the application
of rigid constitutional restraints formulated and enforced
by the courts. What adjustments may htve to be made,
only the future can reveal. It seems certain, however,
craft. No attempt is made by either the Senate bill or the House
amendment to fully define the various classes of rules that would
fall within the scope of air traffic traffic [sic] rules, as, for instance,
lights and signals along airways and at air-ports and upon emergency landing fields. In general, these rules would relate to the
same subjects as those covered by navigation laws and regulations
and by the various State motor vehicle traffic codes. As noted
above, surplusage was eliminated in specifying particular air tralfic rules in order that the term might be given the broadest possible construction by the Department of Commerce and the
courts." H. Rep. No. 1162, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 12.
That the rules for landing and take-off are rules prescribing "minimum safe altitudes of flight" is shown by the following further statement in the House Report: ".

.

. the minimum safe altitudes of

flight . . .would vary with the terrene [terrain] and location of cities
and would coincide with the surface of the land or water at airports."
Id. at p. 14.

