CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
SWANSON v. MARRA BROTHERS, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TH.D CIRCUIT.

No. 405. Argued February 1, 1946.-Decided April 22, 1046.
1. A longshoreman in the employ.of a stevedoring company, while on a
pier and engaged in loading cargo on a ship lying alongside in a harbor, was struck by a life raft which fell from the vessel and injured
him. Held, he has no right of recovery against his employer under
the Jones Act, 41 Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688. International
Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50; O'Donnell v. Great Lakes
Dredge & Dock Co., 318 U. S. 36, differentiated. Pp. 2, 7.
2. By legislation subsequent to the Jones Act and the decision in the
Haverty case, Congress has expressed its purpose to restrict the
liability of the employer under federal statutes to injuries to his
employees occurring on navigable waters or inflicted upon an employee who is either a master or a member of a crew of the vessel,
injured in the course of his employment as such. P. 5.
3. The effect of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act of March 4, 1927, 33 U. S. C. 901 et seq., is to confine the
benefits of the Jones Act to the members of the crew of a vessel
plying in navigable waters and to substitute for the right of recovery
recognized by the Haverty case only such rights to compensation
as are given by the Longshoremen's Act. P. 7.
4. Since the Longshoremen's Act is restricted to compensation for
injuries occurring on navigable waters, it excludes from its own
terms and from the Jones Act any remedies against the employer
for injuries inflicted on shore. P. 7

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

5. It leaves the injured employees in such cases to pursue the remedies afforded by the local law, which this Court has often held
permits recovery against the employer for injuries inflicted by land
torts on his employees who are not members of the crew of a vessel.
P. 7.
6. It leaves unaffected the rights of members of the crew of a vessel
to recover under the Jones Act when injured while pursuing their
maritime employment whether on board or on shore. Pp. 7-8.
149 F. 2d 646, affirmed.

Petitioner, a longshoreman in the employ of respondent stevedoring company, sued to recover under the Jones
Act, 41 Stat. 1007, for injuries suffered while on a pier
and engaged in loading cargo on a vessel lying alongside in
the harbor. The District Court dismissed the complaint.
57 F. Supp. 456. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
149 F. 2d 646. This Court granted certiorari. 326 U. S.
710. Affirmed, p. 8.
Abraham E. Freedman argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief was CharlesLakatos.
Joseph W. Henderson argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was George M. Brodhead.
Opinion of the Court by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,
announced by MR. JUSTICE BLACK.
Petitioner, a longshoreman in the employ of respondent
stevedoring company, while on a pier and engaged in loading cargo on a vessel lying alongside in the harbor of Philadelphia, was struck by a life raft which fell from the vessel
and injured him. The question for decision, which was
reserved in O'Donnellv. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co.,
318 U. S. 36, 43, 44, is whether petitioner may maintain a
suit against his employer to recover for the injury, under
the Jones Act, 41 Stat. 1007,46 U. S. C. § 688.
Petitioner, after having sought and received compensation for his injury under the state employers liability

SWANSON v. MARRA BROS.

I

Opinion of the Court.

act of Pennsylvania, brought the present suit in the District Court for Eastern Pennsylvania "pursuant to the
Maritime Law as modified by Section 33 of the Merchant
Marine Act of 1920" (the Jones Act). He alleged as the
cause of the injury respondent's breach of duty in failing
to provide a safe and seaworthy vessel and appliances and
a safe place for petitioner to work, and in failing to make
the life raft secure and to make adequate inspection of it.
The district court dismissed the complaint, holding that
there could be no recovery under the Jones Act by one
not a seaman for an injury suffered by him while on shore.
57 F. Supp. 456. The Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit affirmed. 149 F. 2d 646. We granted certiorari,
326 U. S. 710, because of the novelty and importance of
the question presented.
The Jones Act provides in pertinent part:
"Any seaman who shall suffer personal injury in
the course of his employment may, at his election,
maintain an action for damages at law, with the right
of trial by jury,. and in such action all statutes of the
United States modifying or extending the commonlaw right or remedy in cases of personal injury to
railway employees shall apply ..
The Act thus made applicable to seamen, injured in the
course of their employment, the provisions of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, 45 U. S. C. § 51 et seq., which
give to railroad employees a right of recovery for injuries
resulting from the negligence of their employer, its agents
or employees. PanamaR. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375;
The Arizona v. Anelich, 298 U. S. 110, 118.
We have held that a stevedore who was injured while
storing cargo, and while on but not employed by a vessel
lying in navigable waters, was authorized by the Jones Act
to bring suit against his employer to recover for injury
caused by the employer's negligence. International
Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50; Uravic v. Jarka

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Co., 282 U. S. 234. It was thought that both the language
and the policy of the Act indicated that by taking over
principles of recovery already established for the employees of interstate railroads and in making them applicable
in the admiralty setting, Congress intended to extend
them to stevedores, the employees of an independent contractor, while working on a vessel in navigable waters and
while rendering services customarily performed by seamen. International Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty, supra,
52; see O'Donnell v. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co.,
supra, 38, 39.
Petitioner, in urging that the doctrine of the Haverty
case be extended so as to allow him to recover for his injuries sustained on shore, places his reliance on O'Donnell
v. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., supra. We there held
the ship owner liable, under the Jones Act, for injuries
caused to a seaman by a fellow servant while the former
was on shore engaged in repairing a conduit which was a
part of the vessel and used for discharging its cargo. But
in that case we sustained the recovery because the injured
person was a seaman and an employee of the vessel, engaged in the course of his employment as such. An
incident to his employment by the vessel as a seaman was
his right to maintenance and cure for injuries received in
the course of his employment, a cause of action traditionally cognizable in admiralty. The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158,
175; CalmarS. S. Corp. v. Taylor, 303 U. S. 525, 527-528.
The jurisdiction of admiralty over such a cause of action
depends, not on the place where the injury is inflicted,
compare The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20; Cleveland Terminal
R. Co. v. Steamship Co., 208 U. S. 316; see Minnie v. Port
Huron Co., 295 U. S. 647; The Admiral Peoples, 295 U. S.
649, but on the nature of the seaman's service, his status
as a member of the vessel, and his relationship as such to
the vessel and its operation in navigable waters. O'Don-

SWANSON v. MARRA BROS.
Opinion of the Court.

nell v. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., supra, 42-43; cf.
CalmarS. S. Corp. v. Taylor, supra.
Congress, in thus enlarging an admiralty remedy, was
exercising its constitutional power to regulate commerce,
and to make laws which shall be necessary and proper to
carry into execution powers vested by the Constitution in
the Government or any department of it, Art. I, § 8, cl.
18, including the judicial power which, by Art. III, § 2,
extends "to all Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction." By § 9 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 76, 28
U. S. C. § 371, (Third), Congress conferred on the district
courts "exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction . . . saving to
suitors, 'in all cases, the right of a common law remedy,
where the common- law is competent to give it . . ." By
the grant of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction in the
Judiciary Article, and by § 9 of the Judiciary Act, the
national Government- took over the traditional body of
rules, precepts and practices known to lawyers and legislators as the maritime law, so far as the courts invested
with admiralty jurisdiction should accept and apply them.
See O'Donnell v. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., supra,
40, and cases cited. ,We have no occasion to consider here whether Congress,
by the Jones Act, undertook to or could give a remedy
against the employer for injuries caused by a vessel to
his employees, not members of the crew of the vessel,
while working on shore. For Congress, by later legislation, has expressed its purpose to restrict the liability of
the employer under federal statutes to injuries to his employees occurring on navigable waters or inflicted upon an
employee who is either a master or a member of a crew
of the vessel, injured in the course of his employment as
such.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

Within six months after the decision in the Haverty
case and nearly sixteen years before our decision in the
O'Donnell case, Congress enacted the Longshoremen's and
Harbor Workers' Compensation Act of March 4, 1927, 44
Stat. 1424, 33 U. S. C. § 901 et seq., which gave a remedy
against employers by way of compensation for disability or
death suffered on navigable waters by any employee not a
"master or member of a. crew of any vessel." § 903. The
liability of employers to pay the prescribed compensation
is, by § 905, made "exclusive and in place of all other
liability of such employer to the employee," his legal representative and any other nerson entitled to recover damages "at law or in admiralty" from the employer for the
injury or death. By § 903 (a) (1) recovery may be had
under the Act only "if recovery for the disability or death
through workmen's compensation proceedings may not
validly be provided by State law."
The Act both imposes liability on the employer for
injuries on navigable waters to employees not including
the master or members of a crew of a vessel, and makes the
prescribed liability to employees within the coverage of
the Act exclusive. The Act thus excludes from its benefits
stevedores not members of the crew who are injured on
navigable waters from recovering under the Jones Act as
interpreted by the Haverty case.. Those provisions make
it plain that Congress' own interpretation of the Jones
Act is such as to preclude the extension of the doctrine of
that case to the specified employees injured on land.
We can hardly suppose that Congress, while explicitly
denying a right of recovery under the Jones Act to maritime workers not members of a crew who are injured on
board a vessel, either thought that the Jones Act extended
to injuries inflicted on shore to employees not members of
a crew, see State Industrial Commission v. Nordenholt
Corp., 259 U. S. 263, 273; Smith & Son v. Taylor, 276 U. S.

SWANSON v. MARRA BROS.
1

Opinion of the Court.

179, or intended that there should be established for such
workers injured on shore, by extension of the doctrine of
the Haverty case, a right of recovery which it at the same
time withdrew from such workers when injured on navigable waters. The Senate Judiciary Committee, in
recommending the legislation which became the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act,
expressed doubt as to the constitutional power of Congress
to give recovery to such employees injured on shore, saying "These men are mainly employed in loading, unloading, refitting, and repairing ships; but it should be
remarked that injuries occurring in loading or unloading
are not covered unless they occur on the ship or between
the wharf and the ship so as to bring them within the
maritime jurisdiction of the United States." Sen. Rep.
No. 973, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 16. Cf. Cleveland Terminal R. Co. v. Steamship Co., supra; The Admiral
Peoples, supra.
We must take it that the effect of these provisions of
the Longshoremen's Act is to confine the benefits of the
Jones Act to the members of the crew of a vessel plying in
navigable waters and to substitute for the right of recovery recognized by the Haverty case only such rights to
compensation as are given by the Longshoremen's Act.
But since this Act is restricted to compensation for injuries
occurring on navigable waters, it excludes from its own
terms and from the Jones Act any remedies against the
employer for injuries inflicted on shore. The Act leaves
the injured employees in such cases to pursue the remedies afforded by the-local law, which this Court has often
held permits recovery against the employer for injuries
inflicted by land torts on his employees who are not members of the crew of a vessel. State Industrial Commission
v. Nordenholt Corp., supra; Smith & Son v. Taylor, supra;
cf. Minnie v. Port Huron Co., supra. And it leaves unaf-

