HOWITT v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

HOWITT

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 354.

Argued January 4,1946.-Decided May 6, 1946.

1. Ticket sellers and other employees of a railroad who use the power
of their positions to discriminate among passengers by exacting sums
in excess of established rates, appropriating the excess for themselves, are punishable under § 10 (1) of the Interstate Commerce
Act, even though the railroad is not a party to their conduct.
Pp. 190-193.
2. One of the primary purposes of the Interstate Commerce Act is
to establish uniform treatment of users of transportation facilities.
P. 192.
3. Section 10 shows the clearest possible purpose to bar railroad
employees from overcharging for their own or for the railroad's
illegitimate gain. P. 193.
4. The Act imposes the same duty on ti'ket sellers and clerks of common carriers as that imposed on railroad officers or other employees,
to treat all the public alike as to terms and conditions of transportation. P. 193.
150 F. 2d 82, affirmed.

Petitioners were indicted for violations of the Interstate
Commerce Act and demurred to the indictments. The
District Court overruled the demurrers, 55 F. Supp. 372,
and they were convicted. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed. 150 F. 2d 82. This Court granted certiorari.
326 U. S. 706. Affirmed, p. 193.
Bart. A. Riley submitted on brief for petitioners.
Walter J. Cummings,Jr. argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
McGrath, Robert S. Erdahl and Beatrice Rosenberg.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Willard H. McEwen filed a brief for the Brotherhood of
Railway and Steamship Clerks, Freight Handlers, Express
and Station Employees, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The wartime transportation shortage during the winter
of 1943 made it exceedingly difficult to obtain tickets for
trains going north from Miami, Florida. Petitioners are
three ticket sellers and one diagram clerk who were
employed at that time by a railroad at Miami. Petitioners Howitt, Lee, and Dewhurst were charged with, and
convicted for, conspiracy to violate the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 1 et seq., in that they conspired
to collect and receive unjust and unreasonable charges
for passenger transportation, in violation of § 1 (5) (a);
to receive and collect greater compensation for service
from certain persons than that which would be collected
from others, in violation of § 2; to prefer particular persons to the disadvantage of others, in violation of § 3 (1);
and to collect and receive compensation in excess of that
fixed by tariff schedules, in violation of § 6 (7). These
violations are made a crime by § 10.1 Petitioner
Section 10 reads in part as follows:
"Any common carrier subject to the provisions of this part, or,
whenever such common carrier is a corporation, any director
or officer thereof, or any receiver, trustee, lessee, agent, or person
acting for or employed by such corporation, who, alone or with
any other corporation, company, person, or party, shall willfully
do or cause to be done, or shall willingly suffer or permit to be
done, any act, matter, or thing in this part prohibited or declared
to be unlawful, or who shall aid or abet therein, or shall willfully
omit or fail to do any act, matter, or thing in this part required
to be done, or shall cause or willingly suffer or permit any act,
matter, or thing so directed ot required by this part to be done
not to be so done,, or shall aid or abet any such omission or failure,
or shall be guilty of any infraction of this part for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, or who shall aid or abet therein,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor . . ."

HOWITT v. UNITED STATES.
189

191

Opinion of the Court.

O'Rourke was charged with and convicted for committing
substantive offenses of the same nature.2 The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed.

150 F. 2d 82.

We granted

certiorari because this case raises important questions
concerning the scope of the Act.

The Government charged that there was a working
agreement between petitioners and certain local hotel
employees under which persons anxious to purchase railroad tickets would, in order to obtain them, pay amounts
in excess of published rates either to petitioners directly,
or to the hotel employees who in turn would divide the

excess payments between themselves and petitioners,'
2 Ordinary violations of the Act are under § 10 punished only by
imposition of a fine. But a proviso imposes a prison term if the violation consists of an unlawful discrimination. Petitioner O'Rourke
contends that he was charged only with violating § 6 (7) rather than
§ 2, which is the unlawful discrimination section, and that he therefore could not be imprisoned under § 10. This contention is frivolous.
The O'Rourke indictment clearly and explicitly also charges a violation of § 2.
3An amicus brief filed with us contains the suggestion that a rather
extensive paragraph of the court's charge to the jury, to which exception was noted, contains language susceptible of the construction that
acceptance of a "bona fide tip" might constitute a violation of the
Interstate Commerce Act. We think that that language read in its
context does not relate to bona fide tips but rather to excess charges
which the prospective passenger was forced to pay and which were
made to look like tips. Moreover, this paragraph of the charge also
contains instructions that employees acting alone without participation by the railroad might be found guilty of violating the Act. The
exception to the paragraph was a general one. In view of what petitioners argue here, what they argued on demurrer, and on the motion
for directed verdict, it is likely that the exception was directed to
these last-mentioned instructions and not to the language challenged
by the amicus brief. Indeed, petitioners introduced no evidence to
show that they were receiving bona fide tips, nor did they request
any charge on the basis of this theory. If petitioners in excepting to
the challenged paragraph of the charge had the "bona fide" tip ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

The railroad played no part in these transactions. The
Government produced a great deal of evidence to support
these charges.' Petitioners offered no testimony or other
kind of evidence to contradict that produced by the
Government. Their only contention was raised on demurrer, motion for directed verdict and exception to the charge
of the jury. This contention. urged on several different
grounds, was that the indictment failed to charge, and theevidence failed to establish a crime, since the Interstate
Commerce Act and § 10 in particular are primarily aimed
at railroads and do not make discriminatory and illegal
charges by railroad employees for passenger transportation criminally punishable, unless the railroad is itself a
party to the conduct. This is still the basis of petitioners'
arguments.
It is well established that one of the primary aims of
the Interstate Commerce Act and the amendments to it
was to establish uniform treatment of users of transportation facilities. See Mitchell v. United States, 313 U. S.
80, 94. 95. The Act again and again expressly condemns
all kinds of discriminatory practices. Railroad employees
can accomplish invidious transportation discrimination,
whether or not their conduct is approved or participated
in by their superiors. Not only do the Act's provisions
against discrimination and special favors fail to exempt
tion in mind they should have specifically pointed this out to the trial
court. See Allis v. United States, 155 U. S. 117, 121-123. The issue
raised by the amicus brief as to whether the Act covers bona fide tips is
therefore not before us.
' The Circuit Court of Appeals said that this evidence "proved beyond question that the defendants repeatedly and systematically
took advantage of the prevailing war-time congestion in transportation to exact from applicants for accommodations more money than
the regular rate prescribed, and appropriated the difference to themselves."

