PORTER v. WARNER CO.

395

Statement of the Case.

PORTER, PRICE ADMINISTRATOR, 1. WARNER
HOLDING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 793.

Argued May 2, 3, 1946.-Decided June 3, 1946.

1. In an .enforcement proceeding under § 205 (a) of the Emergency
Price Control Act of 1942, a Federal District Court has power to
order restitution of rents collected by a landlord in excess of maximums established by regulations issued under the Act. Pp. 398399.
2. Under the provision of § 205 (a) authorizing the District Court,
upon a proper showing, to grant "a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or other order," an order for the recovery
and restitution of illegal-rents may be considered a proper "other
order" either (1) as an equitable adjunct to an injunction decree,
or (2) as an order appropriate and necessary to enforce compliance
with-the Act. *Pp. 399, 400.
3. The legislative background of § 205 (a) supports the conclusion
that the traditional equity powers of a court remain unimpaired
in a proceeding under that section so that an order of restitution
may be made. P.400.
4. The provision of § 205 (e) authorizing an aggrieved tenant, and
in certain circumstances the Price Administrator, to sue for damages does not conflict, except as to an award of damages, with the
jurisdiction of equity courts. under § 205 (a). to issue whatever
"other order" may be necessary to vindicate the public interest,
toQcompel compliance with the Act, and to prevent and undo inflationary tendencies. Pp. 401-402.
5. In considering a restitution order where there are conflicting.claims
between -tenants and landlord as to the amounts due, the District
Court has inherent power to bring in all interested parties and
settle the controversies or to retain the case until the matters are
otherwise litigated. P. 403.
151 F. 2d 529, reversed.

The Price Administrator brought suit under § 205 (a)
of the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 to enjoin
respondent from violating the Act and to require respond-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

ent to make restitution of rents collected in excess of maximums established by regulations issued under the Act.
The District Court enjoined respondent from violating
the Act but denied a restitution order. 60 F. Supp. 513.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 151 F. 2d 529.
This Court granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 773. Reversed,
p. 403.
Milton Klein argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Ralph
F. Fuchs and David London.
G. W. Townsend argued the -cause for respondent. With
him on the brief was F. H. Fryberger.
'MR. JUSTICE

MURPHY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case we are concerned with the power of a federal
court, in an enforcement proceeding under § 205 (a) of the
Emergency Price Control Act of 1942,1 to order restitution
of rents collected by a landlord in excess of the permissible maximums.
The Warner Holding Company, the respondent, owns
eight apartment houses in Minneapolis, Minnesota, containing approximately 280 dwelling units. Between November 1, 1942, and June 29, 1943, it demanded and
received rents in excess of those permitted by the applicable maximum rent regulations issued under the Act. The
Administrator of the Office of Price Administration then
brought this action in the District Court to restrain the
respondent from continuing to exceed the rent ceilings.
The complaint was later amended to seek, in addition, a
decree requiring the respondent "to tender to such persons
as are entitled thereto a refund of all amounts collected
56 Stat. 23, 33; 50 U. S. C.App. § 925 (a).

PORTER v. WARNER CO.
395

Opinion of the Court.

by defendant from tenants as rent for the use and occupancy of housing accommodations in excess of the maximum rents established by said Regulation, provided, however, that defendant shall not be required to make such
tender to any person who has commenced an action against
defendant under Section 205 (e) of the Emergency Price
Control Act of 1942 alleging the collection by defendant
of rent in excess of the maximum rents established by said
Regulation."
The District Courtenjoined respondent from continuing
to collect rents in excess of the legal maximums but declind to order restitution. 60 F. Supp. 513. The Eighth
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment. 151 F.
2d 529. Both courts held that there was no jurisdiction
under the statute to order restitution. We granted certiorari because the result was in conflict with that reached
by the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in Bowles v. Skaggs,
151 F. 2d 817, and because of the obvious importance of
the issue in the administration and enforcement of the
Emergency Price Control Act.
This proceeding was' instituted by the Administrator
under § 205 (a) of the Act, which provides-: "Whenever
in the judgment of the Administrator any person has
engaged or is about to engage in any acts or practices
which constitute or will constitute a violation of any provision of.section 4 of this Act, he may make application
to the appropriate court for an Order enjoining such acts
or practices, or for an order enforcing compliance with
such provision, and upon a showing by the Administrator
that such person has engaged or is about to engage in
any such acts or practices a permanent or temporary
injunction, restraining order, or other order shall be
granted without bond."
Thus the Administrator invoked the jurisdiction of the
District Court to enjoin acts and practices made illegal

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

by the Act and to enforce compliance with the Act. Such
a jurisdiction is an equitable one. Unless otherwise provided by statute, all the inherent equitable powers of the
District Court are available for the proper and complete
exercise of that jurisdiction. 'And since the public interest
is involved in a proceeding of this nature, those equitable
powers assume an even broader and more flexible character than when only a private controversy is at stake.
VirginianR. Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515, 552.
Power is thereby resident in the District Court; in exercising this jurisdiction, "to do equity and to mould each
decree to the necessities of the particular case." Hecht
Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S.321, 329., It may act so as to
adjust and reconcile competing claims and so as to accord
full justice to all the real parties in interest; if necessary,
persons not originally connected with the litigation iay
be brought before 'the court so that their rights in the
subject matter may be determined and enforced. In addition, the court may go beyond the matters immediately
underlying its equitable jurisdictionand decide whatever
other issues and give whatever other relief may be necessary under the circumstances. Only in that way can
equity do complete rather than truncated justice. Camp
v. Boyd, 229 U. S. 530,551-552.
Moreover, the comprehensiveness of this equitable ju-risdiction is not to be denied or limited in the absence of a
clear and valid legislative command. Unless a statute in
so many words, or by a necessary and inescapable inference, restricts the court's jurisdiction in equity, the full
scope of that jurisdiction is to be recognized and applied.
"The great principles of equity, securing complete justice,
should not be yielded to light inferences, or doubtful construction." Brown v. Swann, 10 Pet. 497, 503. See also
Hecht Co. v. Bowles, supra,330.
It is readily apparent from the foregoing that a decree
compelling one to disgorge profits, rents or property ac-

PORTER v. WARNER CO.
395

Opinion of the Court.

quired in violation of the Emergency Price Control Act
may properly be entered by a District Court once its equity
jurisdiction has been invoked under §'205 (a). Indeed,
the language of §,205 (a) admits of no other conclusion.
It expressly envisages applications by the Administrator
for orders enjoining violations of the Act and for orders
enforcing conpliance with the Act; and it expressly
authorizes the Distric -Court, -upon a proper showing, to
.grant "a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining
order, or other order." As recognized in Hecht Co. v.
Bowles, supra, 328, the term. "other order" contemplates
a remedy other than that of an injunction or restraining
order, a remedy entered in the exercise of the District
Court's equitable discretion. An order for the recovery
and restitution of illegal rents may be considered a proper
"other order" on either of two theories:
(1) It may be considered as an equitable adjunct to an
injunction decree. Nothing is more clearly a part of the
subject matter of a suit for an injunction than the recovery
of that which has been illegally acquired and which hais
given rise to the-necessity for injunctive relief. To be
sure, such a recovery could not be obtained through an
independent suit in equity if an adequate legal remedy
were available.! White.v. Sparkill Realty Corp., 280 U. S.
500; Lacassagnev. Chapuis, 144 U. S. 119. But where, as
here, the equitable jurisdiction of the court has properly
been invoked for injunctive purposes, the court has the.
power to decide all relevant matters in, dispute and to
award complete relief even though the'decree includes that
which. might be conferred by a court of law. Alexander v.
Hillman, 296 U. S.222, 241-242.
2 But if a defendant with notice of a pending injunction proceeding
completes the acts sought to be enjoined, the court of equity may
restore the status quo by means of a mandatory injunction. Texas &
N. 0. R. Co. v. Northside Belt R. Cq., 276 U. S. 475; Porter v. Lee,
328 U. S. 246.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

(2) It may be considered as an order appropriate and
necessary to enforce compliance with the Act. Section
205 (a) anticipates orders of that character, although it
makes no attempt to catalogue the infinite forms and variations which such orders might take. The problem of
formulating these orders has been left to the judicial process of adapting appropriate equitable remedies to.specific
situations. Cf. Phelps Dodge Corp. v. Labor Board, 313
U. S. 177, 194. In framing such remedies under § 205 (a),
courts must act primarily to effectuate the policy of the
Emergency Price Control Act and to protect the public
interest while giving necessary respect to the private interests involved. The inherent equitable jurisdiction Which
is thus called-into play clearly authorizes a court, in its
discretion, to decree restitution of excessive charges in
order to give effect to the policy of Congress. Clark v.
Smith, 13 Pet. 195, 203.. And it is.not unreasonable for
a court to conclude that such a restitution order is appropriate and necessary to enforce compliance with the Act
and to give effect to its purposes. Future compliance
may be more definitely assured if one is compelled to
restore one's illegal gains; and the statutory policy of'
preventing inflation is plainly advanced if prices or rents
which have been collected in the past are reduced to their
legal maximums.
The legislative background of § 205 (a) confirms our
conclusion that the traditional equity powers of a court
remain unimpaired in a proceeding under that section so
that an order of restitution may be made. The Senate
Committee on Banking and 'Currency, in reporting upon
the bill which became the Emergency Price Control Act,
stated in regard to § 205 (a): "In common with substantially all regulatory statutes, the bill authorizes the official
charged with the duty of administering the act to apply
to any appropriate court, State or Federal, for an order

PORTER v. WARNER CO.
395

Opinion of the Court.

enjoining any person who has engaged or is about to engage
in any acts or practices which constitute or will constitute
a violation of any provision of the bill. Such courts are
given jurisdiction to issue whatever order to enforce compliance is proper in the circumstances of each particular
case." S. Rep. No. 931, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 10.1 The
last sentence is~an unmistakable acknowledgement that
courts of equity are free to act under § 205 (a) in such a
way as to be most responsive to the statutory policy of
preventing inflation.
It is true that § 205 (e) authorizes an aggrieved purchaser or tenant to sue for damages on his own behalf;
and if that person has not sued within the statutory period,
or for any reason is not entitled to sue, the Administrator
may institute an action for damages on behalf of the
United States.4 To the extent that damages might properly be awarded by a court of equity in the exercise of its
jurisdiction under § 205 (a), see Veazie v. Wlilliams, 8 How.
134, 160, § 205 (e) supersedes that possibility and provides
an exclusive remedy relative to damages. It establishes
the sole means whereby individuals may assert their private right to damages and whereby the Administrator on
behalf of the United States may seek damages in the na3The same report, at p. 25, also states: "Section 205 (a) authorizes
the Administrator to enforce compliance with the provisions of section
4 of the bill, whenever in his judgment, any-person has engaged or is
about to engage in any acts or practices-which constitute or will
constitute a violation of any provision of section 4, by making application to the appropriate court for an. order enjoining such acts or
practices, or for an order enforcing compliance with such provision.
Upon a showing by the Administrator that such person has engaged
or is about to engage in any such acts or practices, a temporary or

permanent injunction, restraining order or other order is to be granted
without bond,"
' § 205 (e) as amended by the Stabilization Extension Act of 1944,
58 Stat. 632, 640-641; 50 U. S. C. App. § 925 (e).

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

ture of penalties 5 Moreover, a court giving relief under
§ 205 (e) acts .as a court of law rather than as a court of
equity. But with the exception, of damages, § 205 (e) in
no way conflicts with the jurisdiction of equity courts
under § 205 (a) to issue whatever "other order" may be
necessary to vindicate the public interest, to compel compliance with the Act and to prevent and undo inflationary
tendencies.
Restitution, which lies within that equitable jurisdiction, is consistent with and differs greatly from the damages and penalties which may be awarded under § 205 (e).
Bowles v. Skaggs, supra, 821. When the Administrator
seeks restitution under § 205 (a), he does not request the
court to award statutory damages to the purchaser or tenant or to pay to such person part of the penalties which
go to the United States Treasury in a suit by the Administrator under § 205 (e). Rather he asks the court to act
in the public interest by restoring the status quo and ordering the return of that which rightfully belongs to the purchaser or tenant. Such action is within the recognized
prwer and within the highest tradition of a court of
equity. Thus it is plainly unaffected by the provisions
of § 205 (e).
'Congress has recognized that this provision for damage actions
affords "a remedy at law to persons damaged by having had to pay
unlawfully high prices." S. Rep. No. 931, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 9.

It has also been stated that "This action is the people's remedy against
inflation. it was written into the statute because the Congress recognized the practical need of this aid to enforcement."

S. Rep. No..922,

78th Cong.; 2d Sess., p. 14. The amendment to § 205 (e), whereby
the Administrator was allowed to sue for damages under prescribed
conditions, wds said to "close an important gap in the present system
of enforcement sanctions."

fd.

Nowhere, however, was there any

indication that § 205 (e) was intended to whittle down the equitable
jurisdiction recognized by § 205 (a) so as to preclude a suit for
restitution.

PORTER v. WARNER CO.
395.

"

403

RUTLEDGE, J., dissenting.

Nor do we find any other provision of the Act that
expressly or 'impliedly precludes a court from ordering
restitution in the exercise of its equity jurisdiction, under
§ 205 (a). This is not a situation where a statute has
created a right and has provided.a special and exclusive
remedy, thereby negativing any jurisdiction that might
otherwise be asserted. United States v. Babcock, 250
U. S. 328. And it clearly is not an instance where equity
jurisdiction is lacking because of a failure to exhaust pre-'
scribed administrative remedies. Myers v. Bethlehem
Corp., 303 U. S. 41. Rather it is an occasion where Congress has utilized, save in one aspect, the broad equitable
jurisdiction that -inheres in courts and where the proposed
exercise of that jurisdiction is consistent with the statutory
language' and policy, -the legislative background and the
public interest.
It follows that the District Court erred in declining, for
jurisdictional reasons, to consider whether a restitution
order was necessary or proper under the circumstances
here present. The case must therefore be remanded to
that court so that it may exercise the discretion that belongs to it. Should the court decide to issue a restitution
order and should there appear to be conflicting claims and
counterclaims between tenants and landlord as to the
amounts due, the court has inherent power to bring in all
the interested parties and settle the controversies or to
retain the case until the matters are otherwise litigated.
Mallow v. Hinde, 12 Wheat. 193.
Reversed
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

dissenting.

In the Emergency Price Control legislation Congress
was as much concerned with remedies as with substantive

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

prohibitions.' It knew that effeetiveness of the latter
depended altogether upon the scheme for enforcement.
Accordingly, both in the original Act' and in later amendments,' it covered the matter of remedies in the greatest
detail and precision. Those provisions were both jurisdictional and procedural. The general scheme was to
confine as narrowly as the Constitution allows the rights
of regulated persons to challenge provisions of the Act
and regulations; and at the same time to create broad
powers for enforcement, by various civil and criminal
sanctions. Yakus v. United States, 321 U. S. 414, dissenting opinion, 463. Congress did not take chances, in
either respect, with inference or construction. It is not
excessive to say that perhaps no other legislation in our
history has equalled the Price Control Act in the wealth,
detail, precision and completeness of its jurisdictional,
procedural and remedial provisions. Yakus v. United
States, supra.
The scheme of enforcement was highly integrated, with
the parts precisely tooled and minutely geared. Legal,
equitable and criminal sanctions were included. Injured
persons' remedies were dovetailed with and guarded
against overlapping, those given the Administrator. He
can sue for damages and penalties, after the injured party
has failed to do so in the time allowed; ' to enjoin viola1 See

H. Rep. No. 1409, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., 12-13; S. Rep. NO.
931, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., 8-9, 25-28; H. Rep. No. 1658, 77th Cong.,
2d Sess., 26-27. "Price control which cannot be made effective is
at least as bad as no price control at all. It will not stop inflation,
and enables those who defy regulation to profit at the expense of the
buyers and sellers who unselfishly cooperate in the interests of the
emergency." S. Rep. No.931, supra,p.8.
2 § 205, 56 Stat. 23, 33-35.
8 58 Stat. 632, 640-641, amending subsections (c), (e), and (f) of
§ 205 as it was in the original Act and adding subsection (g).

'§205(e),50U.S.C.§925(e).

Seenoteg.

PORTER v. WARNER.CO.
395

RUTLEDGE,

405

J., dissenting.

tion or secure an order for compliance, with temporary
and permanent relief; ' cause institution of criminal proceedings; 6 and require licensing of dealers with power to
suspend the license and thus drive out of business.7 This
powerful battery of weapons does not call for reinforcement with armor not provided in the Act. It Was equal
t all tasks of enforcement which conceivably could
arise.
Congress could not have been ignorant of the remedy
of restitution. It knew how to giveremedies it wished
to confer. There-was r.o need to add this one. Nor do
I think it did so. It did not give it expressly I do not
think "other order" in the., context of § 205 (a) includes
it. For to have conferred it would have put the statutory
scheme out of joint.
3 § 205 (a): "Whenever in thef judgment of the Administrator any
person has engaged or is about to engage in any acts or' practices

which constitute or will constitute a violation of any provision of
section 4 of this Act, he may make application to the appropriate
court for aa order enjoining such acts or practices, or foran order
enforcing compliance with such provision, and upon a showing by
the Administrator that such person has engaged or is about to engage
in any such acts or practices a permanent or temporary injunction,
restraining order, or other order shall be granted without bond."
50U. S. C. § 925 (a).
6§ 205 (b): "Any person who willfully violates any provision of
section 4 of this Act, and any person who makes any statement or
entry false in any material(respect in any document or report required
to be kept or filed under section 2 or section 202, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than $5,000, or to imprisonment for not more than two years in the case of a violation of section.
4 (c) and for not more than one year in all other cases, or to both
such fine and imprisonment. Whenever the Administrator has reason
to believe that any person is liable to punishment under this subsection, he may certify the facts to the Attorney General, who may, in
his discretion, cause appropriate proceedings to be brought." 50
U.S.C. §925(b). §205(c), 50 U. S. C. §925(c). See Kraus &
Bros. v. United States, 327 U. S. 614, 620, note 4.
7 § 205 (f), 50 U. S. C. § 925 (f).

1

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEWE,

J., dissenting.

328 U. S.

Section 205 (e) gives the overcharged person his remedy, for damages with penalty, for a limited time. Therbafter the exclusive right to sue is the Administrator's, and
what he recovers goes into the Federal Treasury, not to
the overcharged person. This includes', the amount of
the overcharge, which is sued for here. These provisions
taken together are a statute of limitations on the private
right of recovery. Once the time goes by, it' is cut off
and the Government's right takes its place, in vindication
of the public interest.8
Restitution, as here sought, is inconsistent *with both
rights. It contemplates return of the unjustly taken enrichment to him from' whom it was taken. It is that right
the Administrator now seeks to assert; But he does'so, I
think, in the teeth of the statute. What he recovers is
what the Act makes part of a sum it says shall be paid into
the Treasury whenever recovered by the Administrator;
or into the overcharged person's pocket when. recovered
by him. And these are mutually exclusive, not alternative, rights of recovery. If the Administrator pays over
to the tenants what he recovers in this suit, he will be paying them money which the Act says shall go into the Treasury.' Their time for suit has passed and with it their right
8Under § 205 (e) in the original Act, 56 Stat. 34, the Administrator
was entitled to bring a suit for damages and penalties only when'the
buyer was not entitled to bring such an action. See,, e. g., Bowles
v. Glick Bros. Lumber Co., 146 F. 2d 566. The Act was subsequently
amended to provide, as set out in the text, that the Administrator
could bring a suit for damages and penalties also when the injured
party had not brought such an action within thirty days from the'
date of the occurrence of the violation. 58 Stat. 640. See note 9.
The suit at bar was brought before the passage of the amendment,
but that fact is of no significance, since § 205 (e), whether taken in
its original or amended form, is inconsistent with the remedy of restitution sought by the Government.
0 § 205 (e) : "If any person selling a commodity violates a regulation, order, or price schedule prescribing a maximum price or maximum

PORTER v. WARNER CO.
395

RUTLEDGE,

407

J., dissenting.

to recover these amounts. Whether or not the Administrator can sue for these amounts, on behalf of the Government,, foregoing the penalties, we are not asked to
decide. But we are asked, in effect, to decide that he can
take money thp Act says shall go into the Treasury and
prices, -the person who buys such commodity. for use or consumption
other than in the course of trade or business may, within one year from.
the date of the occurrence of the violation, except as hereinafter provided, bring an action.againstthe seller on account of the overcharge.
In such action, the jeller shall 'be liable for reasonable attorney's fees
and. costs as determined by the court, plus whichever of the following
sums is the greater: (1) Such amount not more than three times the
amount of the overcharge, or the overcharges, upon which the action
is based as the court in its discretion may determine,' or (2) an amount
not less than. $25 nor more than $50, as the court in its discretion may
determine: Provided,however, That 'such amount shall be the amount
of the overcharge or overcharges or $25,'whichever is'greater, if the
defendant proves that the violation of the regulation; order, or. price,
schedule in question was neither wilfull [sic] nor the result of failure
to take practicable precautions against the occurrence of the violation.
For the purposes of this section the payment or receipt of rent for
defense-area housing accommodations shall be deemed, the buying or
selling of a commodity, as the case may be; .and the word 'overcharge'
shall mean the amount by which the consideration exceeds the applicable maximum price. If any person selling a commodity violates a
regulation, order, or price schedule prescribing a maximum price or
maximum prices, and the buyer either fails to institute an action uwder
this subsection within thirty days from, the date of the occurrence of
the violation or i8 pot entitled for any reason to bring the action, the
Administratormay institute such action on 'behalf of the United States.
within such one-year period. If sqch action is instituted. by the Administrator, the buyer shall thereafter be barred from bringing an
action for the same violation or violations. Any action under this
subsection by either the buyer or the Administrator, as the case may
be, may be brought in any'court of competent jurisdiction.. A-judgment in an action for damages under this subsection shall be a bar to'
the recovery under this subsection of any damages in any other action
against the same seller on account of sales made to the same purchaser
'prior to the institution of,the action in which such judgment'was ren-,
dered." -50 U. S. C. § 925 (e). (Emphasis added.)
-

