OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Counsel for Parties.

328 U. S.

fected the rights of members of the crew of a vessel to
recover under the Jones Act when injured while pursuing
their maritime employment whether on board, Warner v.
Goltra, 293 U. S. 155; Norton v. Warner Co., 321 U. S.
565; see South Chicago Co. v. Bassett, 309 U. S. 251,
255-6, or on shore. O'Donnell v. Great Lakes Dredge &
Dock Co., supra.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

ILLINOIS EX REL. GORDON, DIRECTOR OF LABOR,
v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 749. Argued March 28, 1946.-Decided April 22, 1946.
1. Under R. S. § 3466, which provides that where an insolvent debtor
makes a voluntary assignment of his property "the debts due to the
United States shall be first satisfied," a claim of the United States
for taxes under the Social Security Act is entitled to priority over
the claim of a State for taxes under the state Unemployment Compensation Act. Pp.9,11.
2. Priority of the United States under R. S. § 3466 in such case is
not inconsistent with e;ther the express language or the purpose
of the Social Security Act. P. 11.
391 Ill. 29, 62 N. E. 2d 537, affirmed.

The State Supreme Court sustained a claim of the
United States to priority over the claim of the State
in the property of an insolvent debtor. 391 Ill. 29, 62
N. E. 2d 537. This Court granted certiorari. 327 U. S.
771. Affirmed, p. 12.
Albert E. Hallett, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the
brief was George F. Barrett,Attorney General.

ILLINOIS v. UNITED STATES.

8

Opinion of the Court.

J.Louis Monarchargued the cause for the United States.
With him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath,
Acting Assistant Attorney General Sewall Key and Helen
Goodner.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case the Supreme Court of Illinois held that certain tax claims of the Federal Government against an
insolvent taxpayer must be satisfied in full before the
State of Illinois can recover amounts due as taxes under
its Unemployment Compensation Act. 391 Ill. 29, 62
N. E. 2d 537. This decision is substantially in conflict
with that of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island in Rivard
v. Bijou FurnitureCo., 67 R. I. 251, 21 A. 2d 563, 68 R. I.
358, 27 A. 2d 853, and we granted certiorari to resolve this
conflict.
The claim of the United States is for federal unemployment compensation taxes under Title 9 and federal insurance contributions taxes under Title 8 of the Social
Security Act, 49 Stat. 620.1 The priority claimed by the
United States rests on R. S. 3466, which provides in
part that "Whenever any person indebted to the United
States . . ., not having sufficient property to pay all his
debts, makes a voluntary assignment" of his property, "the
debts due to the United States shall be first satisfied."
The State concedes that the facts here bring the United
States' tax claims within the general priority provisions of
§ 3466. The taxpayer while insolvent had made a voluntary assignment of all his property for the benefit of creditors. And it is well settled that taxes are debts within
the meaning of § 3466. United States v. Wadditl Co., 323
U. S. 353, 355. The State's only contention is that the
I A small part of the Government's claim was for capital stock
taxes, but thie fact is of no significance here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

Social Security Act evinces a congressional purpose to
free state unemployment tax claims from the general priority provisions of § 3466.
The State draws its inference not from an express declaration of congressional purpose, but from what it deems
to be broad implications behind the general scheme of the
Social Security Act. The contention is that enforcement
of priorities over state unemployment compensation tax
claims would weaken state unemployment compensation
funds and thus tend to frustrate the manifest purpose of
Congress to foster, in the national interest, sound financial
and stable state unemployment compensation systems.
The State points to the following as showing Congress'
interest in state systems. Title 9 of the Social Security
Act contains provisions intended to induce states to set
up sound unemployment compensation in accordance with
congressionally prescribed standards. To this end state
systems that meet these standards are permitted to build'
up their own funo1s by collection from employers within the
state of 90% of the tax those employers would otherwise
have to pay to the Federal Government. State funds
must be paid into the United States Treasury, to be credited to a special fund, and can be withdrawn only for
paying unemployment benefits. Furthermore, the federal
portion of unemployment compensation taxes can be used
to help states pay administrati ,e expenses. And Congress, since passage of the original Act, has enacted legislation guaranteeing the solvency of state funds. 58 Stat.
790. All of these facts, and some others to which the State
refers, are said to show that the paramount purpose of
the social security legislation was to treat unemployment
relief as a problem to be solved by the Federal Government by its assumption of the primary burden.of making
state systems a success.

ILLINOIS v. UNITED STATES.
8

Opinion of the Court.

We agree that the social security legislation provides a
method for accomplishing state and federal unemployment relief systems, integrated in plan, function, and
purpose, and that sound state systems are essential to
complete success of the congressional plan. But we cannot agree that Congress thereby intended in effect to
amend § 3466, by making its priority provisions inapplicable to state unemployment tax claims. For while the
state and federal governments were to cooperate, the underlying philosophy of the Federal Act was to keep the
state and federal systems separately administered. The
Act nowhere indicates a purpose to treat a state unemployment claim as the State here urges us to treat its
claim-"tantamount to a claim of the United States."
Furthermore, §§ 807 (c) and 905 (b) of the Federal
Act, and the provisions they incorporated by reference,
made applicable to social security taxes all other provisions of law relating to the assessment and collection of
other taxes unless such other remedies are inconsistent
with the Social Security Act. While there is no evidence
that Congress in these sections had § 3466 specifically in
mind, these provisions indicate that Congress intended, so
far as practicable, to apply to social security taxes all of
the remedies available to the Federal Government in collecting other taxes.. Section 3466 provides one of these
remedies. Since, as has been indicated, -it -is not inconsistent with either the express language or purpose of the
Social Security Act, it must be applied here.
Previous decisions of this Court relied on by the State
do not support its contention. Those cases, insofar as
they held that § 3466 did not give the United States priority over certain other types of claims, did so because
later Acts were found to contain provisions plainly inconsistent with United States priority. Cook County Na-

