OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

328 U. S.

is a matter entrusted to the Commission, which has wide
latitude for judgment. Jacob Siegel Co. v. Trade Commission, supra. We only hold that under the facts of this
case the Commission may not absolutely forbid the use of
the words and the symbol by respondent.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE -CORPORATION v.
BEAVER COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 40.

Argued April 30, 1946.-Decided May 13, 1946.

By § 10 of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act, Congress
forbade States and local governments to tax personal property of
the R. F. C. or its subsidiaries, but provided that their "real property" shall be subject to state and local taxation "to the same extent
according to its value as other real property is taxed." An R. F. C.
subsidiary acquired certain land in Pennsylvania, erected buildings
thereon, and equipped them with machinery and attachments necessary for a manufacturing plant. Most of the machinery was heavy,
not attached to the buildings, and was held in place by its own
weight. Other portions were attached by easily removable scretvs
and bolts. Some of the equipment could be moved from place to
place in the plant. The plant was leased to a manufacturer of war
equipment under a contract providing that the machinery should
"remain personalty notwithstanding the fact it may be affixed or
attached to realty." The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania sustained
the imposition of a tax by a county on the machinery, holding that
it was real estate under a long-established rule in Pennsylvania
applying to all essential machinery of a manufacturing plant.
Held:
1. The'tax is sustained. P. 210.
2. The interpretation of Pennsylvania's tax law by its Supreme
Court is binding on this Court. P. 208.

R. F. C. v. BEAVER COUNTY.
204

Counsel for Parties.

3. Pennsylvania's definition of "real -property" cannot govern if
it conflicts with the scope ot that term as used in the federal statute.
P. 208.
4. By permitting local taxation of the real property, Congress
made it impossible to apply the federal legislation with uniform consequences in each State and locality. P. 209.
5. The application of a local rule as to what is "real property"
for tax purposes would not impair the congressional program for
the production of war materials any more. than the action of Congress in leaving the fixing of rates of taxation to local communities.
Pp. 209, 210.
6. The congressional purpose can best be accomplished by the
application of settled state rules as to what constitutes "real property," so long as they do not effect a discrimination against the
Government or run counter to the terms of the Act. P. 210.
7. Any other course would create the kind of confusion and resulting hampering of local tax machinery which Congress did not intend
when it sought to integrate its permission to tax with local tax
assessment and collection machinery. P. 210.
350 Pa. 520, 39 A. 2d 713, affirmed.

Appeal from a decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, 350 Pa. 520, 39 A. 2d 713, sustaining a tax on
machinery of a manufacturing plant owned by the Defense
Plant Corporation, a subsidiary of the R. F. C.
p. 210.

Affirmed,

Robert L. Stern argued the cause for appellant. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, John D.
Goodloe, J. Bowers Campbell, Henry J. Crawford and
HaroldF. Reed.
John G. Marshall and Edward G. Bothwell argued the

cause and filed a brief for appellee.
By special leave of Court, John L. Nourse, Deputy Attorney General of California, argued the cause for the
State of California, and Sherrill Halbert argued the cause
for Stanislaus County, as amici curiae. With them on a

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

brief filed for that State, as amicus curiae, were Robert W.
Kenny, Attorney General, Leslie A. Cleary and Harold W.
Kennedy, urging affirmance.
Edward G. Bothwell filed a brief for Allegheny County,
Pa., as amicus curiae, in support of appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
By § 10 of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act,
-is amended, 47 Stat. 5, 9; 55 Stat. 248, Congress made it
clear that it did not permit States and local governments
to impose taxes of any kind on the franchise, capital, reserves, surplus, income, loans, and personal property of the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation or any of its subsidiary corporations.1 Congress provided in the same
section that "any real property" of these governmental
agencies "shall be subject to State, Territorial, county,
municipal, or local taxation to the same extent according
to its value as other real property is taxed." The Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania sustained the imposition of a tax
on certain machinery owned and used in Beaver County,
Pennsylvania, by the Defense Plant Corporation, an
RFC subsidiary.2 The question presented on this appeal
from the Supreme Court judgment is whether the Supreme Court's holding that this machinery is "subject to"
a local "real property" tax means that the Pennsylvania
tax statute, 72 Purdon's Pennsylvania Stat. (1936) 5020201, as applied, conflicts with § 10 of the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation Act. This appeal, thus, challenges
the validity of a state statute sustained by the highest
As to the constitutional tax immunity of governmental properties
see United States v. County of Allegheny, 322 U. S. 174. See also
Pittman v. Home Owners' Loan Corporation, 308 U. S. 21; Maricopa
County v. Valley National Bank, 318 U. S. 357.
2350 Pa. 520, 39 A. 2d 713.

R. F. C. v. BEAVER COUNTY.
04

Opinion of the Court.

court of the State and raises a substantial federal question.
We have jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a) and appellee's motion to dismiss is denied.
In 1941 Defense Plant Corporation acquired certain
land in Beaver County. It erected buildings on the.property and equipped them with machinery and attachments
necessary and essential to the existence and operation of
a manufacturing plant for aircraft propellers. The plant.
thus fully equipped, was leased to Curtiss-Wright Corporation, to carry out its war contracts with the Govern-.
ment for the manufacture of propellers. Most of the
machinery was heavy, not attached to the buildings. and
was held in place by its own weight. Other portions of
the machinery were attached by easily removable screws
and bolts, and some of the equipment and fixtures could
be moved from place to place within the plant. The lease
contract with Curtiss-Wright authorized the Government to receive and to replace existing equipment, and
parts of the machinery appear to have been frequently
interchanged and replaced as the convenience of the Government required. The lease contract also provided that
the machinery should "remain personalty notwithstanding the fact it may be affixed or attached to realty."
The Government contends that under these circumstances the machinery was not "real" but was "personal"
property, and that therefore its taxation was forbidden by
Congress. The "real property" which Congress made
"subject" to state taxation should in the Government's
view be limited to "land and buildings and those fixtures
By joint resolution of Congress, 59 Stat. 310, Defense Plant Corporation was dissolved and allof its functions, powers, duties and
liabilities were transferred to Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
Pursuant to this joint resolution this Court granted a motion to substitute Reconstruction Finance Corporation as party appellant in
succession to Defense Plant Corporation
3

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

which are so integrated with the buildings as to be uniformly, or, at most, generally, regarded as real property."
"Real property," within this definition, would include
buildings and "fixtures as are essential to a building's op'
erations" but would not include fixtures, movable machinery, or equipment, which, though essential to applicant's
operations as a plant, are not essential to a building's
operation as a building.
The county would, for tax purposes, define real property so as to treat machinery; equipment, fixtures, and the
land on which a manufacturing establishment is located
as an integral real property unit. This is in accord with
the view of the State's Supreme Court which made the
following statement in sustaining the tax here involved:
"It has long been the rule in Pennsylvania that 'Whether
fast or loose, therefore, all the machinery of a manufactory
which is necessary to constitute it, and without which it
would not be a manufactory at all, must pass for a part
of the freehold.' . . . Appellant's machinery, being an integrated part of the manufactory, and so, of the freehold,
was therefore taxable" under Pennsylvania's definition of
real property. This interpretation of Pennsylvania's tax
law is of course binding on us: But Pennsylvania's definition of "real property" cannot govern if it conflicts with
the scope of that term as used in the federal statute. What
meaning Congress intended is a federal question which we
must determine.
The 1941 Act does not itself define real property. Nor
do the legislative reports or other relevant data provide
any single decisive piece of evidence as to congressional
intent.' Obviously, it could have intended either, as the
4The 1941 amendments to § 10 added among others the followifig
provision: ". . . such exemptions shall not be construed to be applicable in any State to any buildings which are considered by the laws
of such State to be personal property for taxation purposes." The
Government contends that this indicates a congressional intent to

R. F. C. v. BEAVER COUNTY.
204

Opinion of the Court.

Government argues, that content be given to the term
"real property" as a matter of federal law, under authoritative decisions of this Court, or, as the county contends, that the meaning of the term should be its meaning
-under local tax laws so long as those tax laws were not
designed to discriminate against the Government.
In support of its contention that a federal definition of
real property should be applied, the Government relies on
the generally accepted principle that Congress normally
intends that its laws shall operate uniformly throughout
the nation so that the federal program will remain unimpaired.

Jerome v. United States, 318 U. S. 101, -104;
But Congress, in

Commissioner v. Tower, 327 U. S. 280.

permitting local taxation of the real property, made it impossible to apply the law with uniform tax consequences in
each State and locality. For the several States, and even
the localities within them, have diverse methods of assessment, collection, and refunding.' Tax rates vary widely.
To all of these variable tax consequences, Congress has
expressly subjected the "real property" of the Defense
Plant Corporation. In view of this express provision, the
normal assumption that Congress intends its law to have
the same consequences throughout the nation cannot be
made. Furthermore, Congress, had it desired complete
nationwide uniformity as to tax consequences, could have
stipulated for fixed payments in lieu of taxes, as it has done
in other statutes.' Nor can we see how application of a
establish a uniform meaning of the term "real property" regardless of
local rules. But the addition also might be taken to indicate that
Congress understood that without it under the language of § 10 the
local rule would be followed with respect to taxing buildings. In our
opinion the addition of the above-quoted language does not tend to
lead to one conclusion or the other.
5 See, e. g., 42 U. S. C. 1546. See also list of Acts in Federal Contributions to States and Local Governmental Units with Respect to
Federally Owned Real Estate, House Document No. 216, pp. 39-41.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion -of the Court.

328 U. S.

local rule governing what is "real property" for tax purposes would impai-r the congressional program for the production of war materials any more than the program would
be impaired by the action of Congress in leaving the fixing
of rates of taxation to local communities.
We think the congressional purpose can best be accomplished by application of settled state rules as to what
constitutes "real property," so long as it is plain, as it is
here, that the state rules do not effect a discrimination
against the Government, or patently run counter to the
terms of the Act. Concepts of real property are deeply
rooted in state traditions, customs, habits, and laws. Local tax administration is geared to those concepts. To
permit the States to tax, and yet to require them to alter
their long-standing practice of assessments and collections, would create the kind of confusion and resultant
hampering of local tax machinery which we are certain
Congress did not intend. The fact that Congress subjected Defense Plant Corporation's properties to local
taxes "to the same extent according to its value as other
real property is taxed" indicated an intent to integrate
congressional permission to tax with established local tax
assessment and collection machinery.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

