WOODS v. NIERSTHEIMER.

211

Syllabus.

WOODS v. NIERSTHEIMER, WARDEN.
NO. 631.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF RANDOLPH
COUNTY, ILLINOIS.'

Argued May 2, 1946.-Decided May 20, 1946.
More than five years after his conviction for murder on an alleged
plea of guilty, petitioner petitioned two Illinois courts for writs of
habeas corpus, alleging circumstances which, if true, we-e sufficient
to show that he had been convicted without due process of law in
violation of, the Fourteenth Amendment. Each court denied the
petition xvithout an opinion, on the ground that it failed to state a
cause of action. These orders were not appealable to a higher state
court. It appeared that the proper remedy under Illinois law was
not a writ of habeas corpus but a statutory substitute for a writ
of error coram nobis, in respect of which there was a five-year
limitation. Held:
1. Since the orders denying writs of habeas'corpus were not
appealable to a higher state court, this Court.is authorized to review
them if they are based on decisions of federal questions. P. 213.
2. Since it appears that the petitions for writs of habeas corpus
probably were denied because that was not the proper remedy
under Illinois law, the judgments do not clearly present federal
questions. P. 216.
3. The situation is not altered by the fact that the five-year
statute of limitations on the proper remedy has expired, since it
is not known whether the state courts will construe the statute
as depriving petitioner of his right to challenge a judgment rendered
in violation of constitutional guaranties. P. 216.
4. Whether petitioner will be denied any remedy in the state
courts will not be known until they have passed on a petition for
the proper remedy under state law. P. 216.
5. If the State should at all times deny all remedies to persons
imprisoned in violation of the Constitution, the federal courts would
be available to provide a remedy to correct such wrongs. P. 217.
Dismissed.
*Together with No. 671, Woods v. Nierstheimer, Warden, on certi-

orari to the Criminal Court of Cook County, Illinois, argued and
decided on the same dates.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Petitioner was denied writs of habeas corpus by state
courts from which there was no appeal. This Court
granted certiorari. 327 U. S. 772.- . Dismissed,p. 217.
Edward H. Levi argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the
brief was George F. Barrett,Attorney General.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1940 the petitioner was indicted for murder in the
Criminal Court of Cook County, Illinois. Adjudged to
be guilty on an alleged plea of guilty, he was sentenced to
serve ninety-nine years in the state penitentiary. In 1945
he filed two identical petitions for habeas corpus, one in
the Criminal Court of Cook County and the other in the
Randolph County Circuit Court. In summary the allegations of these petitions were:
On March 8th or 9th, 1940, Chicago policemen came-to
petitioner's home, accused him of murder, and arrested
him. For a period of four days these policemen subjected
him to mistreatment in an effort to force him to confess
to the crime of murder. The policemen allegedly abused
him, beat him with their hands, with blackjacks, and with
clubs. At the end of four days, under threat of instant
death if he failed to do so, petitioner signed a paper which
he later discovered to be a confession. Petitioner averred
that he was unable to employ counsel, that he had no counsel, and that he did not consult with counsel during the
next two months while he was confined to jail. According
to the allegations, petitioner was brought into court at
the end of that period, and a'public defender appeared as

WOODS v. NIERSTHEIMER.
211

Opinion of the Court.

his counsel; but the public defender declined to. permit
petitioner to explain the circumstances surrounding the
confession. Moreover, despite petitioner's repeated assertion of his innocence, the defender allegedly entered'a plea
of guilty on behalf of petitioner. The allegations further
assert that the public defender and the State's attorney
threatened petitioner by telling him that he would burn
in the electric chair if he did not keep his mouth shut, and
that despite these threats petitioner pleaded not)guilty'
and never did at any time consent to the guilty plea which
is the basis for his ninety-nine year sentence.
Petitioner's contention before the two trial courts was
that a judgment and sentence under these circumstances
amounted to a denial of due process of law in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The Randolph County Circuit Court denied
petitioner's application for habeas corpus "for want of
jurisdiction and failure to state a cause of action." The
Cook County Criminal Court granted the State's motion
to dismiss, made on the ground that the petition on its
face failed to state a cause of action. In neither court was
petitioner afforded an opportunity to offer evidence to
prove his Allegations. Neither court wrote an opinion
explaining its order. Since Illinois does not provide for
appellate review of an order denying a petition for a writ
of habeas corpus, the orders here involved were entered
by the highest courts of the State that could have entered
them. See White v. Ragen, 324 U. S. 760.. This Court
is consequently authorized to review these orders if they
are based on decisions of federal questions. Tucker v.
Texas, 326 U. S. 517. Because of the serious violations
of the Fourteenth Amendment alleged by the petitioner,
and because of uncertainty as to whether denial of his petitions rested on an adequaie state ground, we granted
certiorari.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

The State, through its Attorney General, concedes that
the allegations of the petitions for habeas corpus, if true,
would show that'conviction and sentencing of the petitioner violated the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The State contends, however, that the
applications for habeas corpus were not denied on the
ground that the allegations, if proved, would fail to show
a violation of due process. According to the State, the
denials of petitioner's applications rested on the separate
and distinct ground that in the Illinois state courts habeas
corpus is not the proper remedy for relief from judgments
violating due process of law in the manner here alleged.
The contention is that the exclusive relief against such
judgments is provided by a statutory substitute for the
common law writ of error coram nobis, Ch. 110, par. 196,
Illinois. Revised Statutes, 1945. The petitioner counters
by calling attention to the fact that the statutory remedy
is not available unless brought within five years after the
rendition of a judgment; that the judgment and sentence
against petitioner was rendered more than five years Ago;
that consequently, if petitioner has no remedy for habeas
corpus, he has no remedy at all; that we should not assume
that Illinois grants no relief to one whose imprisonment
violates rights protected by the United States Constitution, cf. Smith v. O'Grady, 312 U. S. 329; and that we
should therefore hold that habeas corpus is available to
the petitioner.
From our investigation of the law of the State of Illinois
we conclude that the denials of the applications in this
case could have rested, and probably did rest, on the
ground that habeas corpus is not the proper remedy in
cases such as the one before us. For this reason we are
without power to review the judgments, see Williams v.
Kaiser,323 U. S. 471, 477, and the writs of certiorari must
be dismissed. The Supreme Court of Illinois has repeatedly held that a court of the State has jurisdiction of a

WOODS v. NIERSTHEIMER.
211

Opinion of the Court.

habeas corpus proceeding only where the original judgment of conviction was void or where something has
happened since its rendition to entitle the petitioner to
his release. According to Illinois Supreme Court decisions,
this means that if the petition and return in the habeas
corpus proceeding show that the court which rendered
the original judgment had jurisdiction over the person
and over the subject matter, and nothing has happened
since the conviction to entitle the applicant to his release,
the court to Which the petition is addressed lacks power to
discharge the prisoner.' The petitions for habeas corpus
here involved did not challenge the court's jurisdiction
over the person, nor did they allege that anything had
happened since the rendition of the judgment which would
entitle the petitioner to his release. The allegations that
petitioner did not consent to the guilty plea and that he
was not represented by proper counsel, moreover, did not
challenge jurisdiction over the subject matter, within the
meaning of that term as used in defining the power of
Illinois courts to release prisoners on habeas corpus.2
1 See e. g. People v. Zimmer, 252 Il1. 9, 96 N. E, 529, and cases discussed; People v. Siman, 284 Ill. 28, 32, 119 N. E. 940; People v.
Shurtle0, 355 Ill. 210, 189 N. E. 291; People v. Thompson, 358 Ill. 81,
192 N. E. 693; People v.,Bradley, 391 Ill. 169, 62 N. E. 2d 788.
2 See People v. Fisher,340 Ill. 250, 172 N. E. 722, where the Supreme
Court of Illinois made the following statement on p. 260:
"If the jury is an essential part of the tribunal without which
the court has no jurisdiction of the subject matter, it is not discernible how, upon a plea of guilty in a criminal case, a valid
judgment can be rendered. Yet the power of the court, without
a jury, upon such a plea, to find the defendant guilty and render
judgment is unquestioned. A court's jurisdiction of the subject
matter is not determined by the plea which a person charged with
crime may interpose. Before he appeared at the bar of the
tribunal, it either was or wss not vested with jurisdiction of the
subject matter of his cause. If the court possessed such jurisdiction, it was conferred by or pursuant to some provision of the
constitution, and not by the act or consent of the defendant."

OCTOBER'TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

Consequently, it seems highly probable that under the
Illinois decisions the writ of habeas corpus was not the
proper remedy in this case. That this is so is further borne
out by the fact that in Illinois orders denying petitions for
habeas corpus are not subject to appellate review. People
v. McAnally, 221 Ill. 66, 68, 77 N. E. 544. We cannot
assume that Illinois would so far depart from its general
appellate procedure as to deny appellate review of orders
denying applications for habeas corpus, if such applications were the proper procedure for challenging violations
of fundamental rights to life and liberty guaranteed bv
the United States Constitution.
Since the record thus shows that petitioner's applications for a writ of habeas corpus were probably denied
because he did not seek the proper remedy under Illinois
law, it does not appear that the judgments we are asked
to review do not rest on an adequate non-federal ground.
Nor do the denials of petitioner's applications for habeas
corpus present a federal question merely because the fiveyear statute of limitations on the statutory substitute for
the writ of error coram nobis has expired. Petitioner
claims that this leaves him without any remedy in the
state courts. But we do not know whether the state
courts will construe the statute so as to deprive petitioner
of his right to challenge a judgment rendered in violation
of constitutional guarantees where his action is brought
more than five years after rendition of the judgment. Nor
can we at this time pass upon the suggestion that the Illinois statute so construed would itself violate due process of
law in that a denial of that remedy, together with a denial
of the writ of habeas corpus, would, taken together,
amount to a complete deprivation of a state remedy where
constitutional rights have been denied. We would reach
that question only after a denial of the statutory substitute for the writ of error coram nobis based on the statute

