AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.

781

Syllabus.

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES.
NO. 18.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 7i 8, 1945.-Decided June 10, 1946.
1. When there is a combination or conspiracy to control and dominate
interstate trade and commerce in a commodity, coupled with the
power and intent to exclude competitors to a substantial extent, the
crime of monopolizition under § 2 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act
is complete; and the actual exclusion of coi:.petitors is not necessary
to the crime. Pp. 784-787, 798, 808-815.
2. To support a conviction for conspiring to monopolize certain trade
in violation of the Sherman Act, it is not necessary to show power
and intent to exclude all competitors, nor to show a conspiracy to
exclude all competitors. P. 789.
3. Under § 2 of the Sherman Act, it is the crime of monopolizing for
parties to combine or conspire to acquire or maintain the power to
exclude competitors from any part of the trade or commerce among
the several States or with foreign nations, provided (a) they also
have such a power that they are able, as a group, to exclude actual
or potential competition frow the field and (b) they have the intent
and purpose to exercise that power. P. 809.
4. It is not the form of the combination or the particular means used
but the result to be achieved that the statute condemns. P. 809.
5. It is not important whether the means used to accomplish the unlawful objective are in themselves lawful or unlawful. P. 809.
6. No formal agreement is necessary to constitute an unlawful conspiracy. P. 809.
7. The essential combination or conspiracy in violation of the Sherman
Act may be found in a course .f dealing or other circumstances as
well as in an exchange of words. Pp. 809, 810.
8. Neither proof of exertion of the power to exclude nor proof of
actual exclusion of existing or potential competitors is essential to
sustain a charge of monopolization under the Sherman Act. P. 810.
*Together with No. 19, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. et al. v.
United States, and No. 20, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. et al. v. United
States, on certiorari to the same court, argued and decided on the same
dates.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Counsel for Parties.

328 U. S.

9. A combination may be one in restraint of interstate trade or commerce or to monopolize a part of such trade or commerce in violation
of the Sherman Act, although such restraint or monopoly may not
have been actually attained to any harmful extent. P. 811.
10. The material consideration in determining whether a monopoly
exists is not that prices are raised and that competition actually is
excluded but that power exists to raise prices or to exclude competition when it is desired to do so. P. 811.
11. United States v. Aluminum Co. of America, 148 F. 2d 416, approved. Pp. 811-814.
12. Separate convictions for a conspiracy to restrain trade and for a
conspiracy to monopolize trade do not amount to double jeopardy
or to a multiplicity of punishment in a single proceeding contrary
to the Fifth Amendment, since they are separate statutory offenses,
one being made criminal by § 1 and the other by § 2 of the Sherman
Act. Braverman v. United States, 317 U. S. 49, distinguished.
Pp. 787, 788.
13. Separate convictions for monopolization and for conspiring to
monopolize in violation of the Sherman Act do not result in multiple
punishment contrary to the Fifth Amendment, since they are separate offenses. United States v. Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78; Pinkerton
v. United States, 328 U. S. 640. Pp. 788, 789.
147 F. 2d 93, affirmed.

Petitioners were convicted of violating §§ 1 and 2 of
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 147 F. 2d 93. This Court granted certiorari "limited to the question whether actual exclusion of
competitors is necessary to the crime of monopolization
under § 2 of the Sherman Act." 324 U. S. 836. A petition for rehearing and enlargement of the scope of review
in No. 20 was denied. 324 U. S. 891. Affirmed, p. 815.
George W. Whiteside and Milton Handler argued the
cause for petitioners in No. 18. With them on the brief
was John A. V. Murphy.

Bethuel M. Webster argued the cause for petitioners
in No. 19. With him on the brief was FrancisH.. Horan.

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

781

Harold F. McGuire argued the cause for petitioners in
No. 20. With him on the brief were B. S. Womble,
Thomas Turner Cooke and Richard C. Stoll.
Assistant Attorney General Berge argued the cause for
the United States. With him on the brief were Solicitor
General McGrath, Charles H. Weston and Robert L.
Stern.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioners are The American Tobacco Company,
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company,' American Suppliers. Inc., a subsidiary
of American. and certain officials of the respective companies who were convicted by a jury, in the District Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Kentucky,
of violating §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act,
pursuant to an information filed July 24, 1940, and modified October 31, 1940.
Each petitioner was convicted on four counts: (1)
conspiracy in restraint of trade, (2) monopolization,
(3) attempt to monopolize, and (4) conspiracy to monopolize. Each count related to interstate and foreign trade
and commerce in tobacco. No sentence was imposed
under the third count as the Court held that that count
was merged in the second. Each petitioner was fined
$5,000 on each of the other counts, making $15.000 for
each petitioner and a total of $255,000. Seven other
defendants were found not guilty and a number of the
original defendants were severed from the proceedings
pursuant to stipulation.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, on
December 8, 1944, affirmed each conviction. 147 F. 2d
1

Here referred to as American, Liggett and Reynolds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

93. All the grounds urged for review of those judgments
were considered here on petitions for certiorari. On
March 26, 1945, this Court granted the petitions but each
was "limited to the question whether actual exclusion of
competitors is necessary to the crime of monopolization
under § 2 of the Sherm .' Act." 324 U. S. 836. On
April 19, 1945, Reynolds, et al., filed a petition for rehearing and enlargement of the scope of review in their case
but it was denied. 324 U. S.891. This opinion is limited to the convictions under § 2 of the Sherman Act '
and deals especially with those for monopolization under
the second count of the information.
The issue thus emphasized in the order allowing certiorari and primarily argued by the parties has not been
previously decided by this Court. It is raised by the
following instructions which were especially applicable
to the second count' but were related also to the other
counts under § 2 of the Sherman Act:
"Now, the term 'monopolize' as used in Section 2
of the Sherman Act, as well as in the last three counts
2

"S-c. 2.

Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to

monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person or persons,
to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce among the several
States, or with foreign nations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not
exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding
one year, or by both said punishments, in the 'discretion'of the court."
26 Stat. 209, 15 U. S.C. § 2.
3 The second count included particularly the following:
"Before and during the period of three years next preceding
the filing of this information, . . .defendants, . . . well knowing
the foregoing facts, have, . . .unlawfully monopolized the aforesaid interstate and foreign trade and commerce in tobacco, in
violation of Section Two of the Act of Congress of July 2,
1890, . .
"In adopting and exercising such met' ,xis, means and practices,
each defendant has acted with full knowledge that unanimity

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

of the Information, means the joint acquisition or
maintenance by the members of a conspiracy formed
for that purpose, of the power to control and dominate
interstate trade and commerce in a commodity to
such an extent that they are able, as a group, to
exclude actual or potential competitors from the field,
accompanied with the intention and purpose to exercise such power.
"The phrase 'attempt to monopolize' means the
employment of methods, means and practices which
would, if successful, accomplish monopolization, and
which, though falling short, nevertheless approach so
close as to create a dangerous probability of it,
which methods, means and practices are so employed
by the members of and pursuant to a combination or conspiracy formed for the purpose of such
accomplishment.
"It is in no respect a violation of the law that a
number of individuals or corporations, each acting
for himself or itself, may own or control a large part,
or even all of a particular commodity, or all the business in a particular commodity.
"An essential element of the illegal monopoly or
monopolization charged in this case is the existence
of action with reference thereto was and would be the policy,

intent and practice of the others, that such unanimity of action
would necessarily result in drawing to defendant major tobacco
companies as a group the power to dominate, control, and exclude
others from the aforesaid interstate and foreign traC" and commerce, has intended such result, and such result has in fact been
achieved.
"Said unlawful monopolization has had the effects, among
others, of permitting a few companies to attain control of a bottleneck in a great industry, through which a major farm commodity,
on which several million are dependent, must pass, on its way
through the hands of jobbers and retailers, to the many millions
of people who use tobacco products; of enabling these few companies to abuse their resulting strategic and dominant position,
by making the income of growers of leaf tobacco lower than it
otherwise would have been; by making the income of distributors
and other manufacturers of tobacco products lower than it otherwise would have been; and by keeping from all other groups in
the industry, and from consumers, the benefits which otherwise
would flow from free, vigorous and normal competition."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court..

328 U.S.

of a combination or conspiracy to acquire and maintain the power to exclude competitors to a substantial
extent.
"Thus you will see that an indispensableingredient
of each of the offenses charged in the Information is
a combination or conspiracy." (Italics supplied.)
While the question before us, as briefly stated in the
Court's order, makes no express reference to the inclusion,
in the crime of "monopolization," of the element of "a
combination or conspiracy to acquire and maintain the
power to exclude competitors to a substantial extent,"
yet the trial court, in its above quoted instructions to the
jury, described such a combination or conspiracy as an
"'essential element" and an "indispensable ingredient" of
that crime in the present cases. We therefore include
that element in determining whether the foregoing instructions correctly stated the law as applied to these cases.
In discussing the legal issue we shall assume that such
a combination or conspiracy to monopolize has been established. Because of the presence of that element, we do
not have here the hypothetical case of parties who themselves have not "achieved" monopoly but have had monopoly "thrust upon" them: See United States v. Aluminum
Co. of America, 148 F. 2d 416, 429.
The present cases are not comparable to cases where
the parties, for example, merely have made a new discovery or an original entry into a new field and unexpectedly
or unavoidably have found themselves enjoying a monopoly coupled with power and intent to maintain it. In
the Aluminum Co. case, discussed later, there was a use
of various unlawful means to establish or maintain the
monopoly. Here we have the additional element of a
combination or conspiracy to acquire or maintain the
power to exclude competitors that is charged in the fourth
count.

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v.:'U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

The present opinion is not a finding by this Court one
way or the other on the many closely contested issues of
fact. The present opinion is an application of the law
to the facts as they were found by the jury and which
the Circuit Court of Appeals held should not be set aside.
The trial court's instruction did not call for proof of an
"actual exclusion" of competitors on the part of the petitioners. For the purposes of this opinion, we shall assume,
therefore, that an actual exclusion of competitors by the
petitioners was not claimed or established by the prosecution. Simply stated the issue is: Do the facts called
for by the trial court's definition of monopolization amount
to a violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act?
Before reaching that issue we shall touch upon another
contention which the petitioners have made and which
the Government has undertaken to answer. This is the
contention that the separate convictions returned under
the conspiracy count in restraint of trade and under the
conspiracy count to monopolize trade amount to double
jeopardy, or to a multiplicity of punishment in a single
proceeding, and therefore violate the Fifth Amendment
to the Federal Constitution.' The petitioners argue that
§ 2 of the Sherman Act should be interpreted to require
proof of actual exclusion of competitors in order to show
"monopolization," and they claim that only thus can a
"conspiracy to monopolize" trade be sufficiently differentiated from a "conspiracy in restraint of" trade as to avoid
subjecting the parties accused under those counts to double
jeopardy.
4 The verdict in a criminal case is sustained only when there is
"relevant evidence from which the jury could properly find or infer,
beyond a reasonable doubt," that the accused is guilty. Mortensen
v. United States, 322 U. S. 369,374.
,,... nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to
be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; . . ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.:

328 U' S.

Petitioners seek support for these contentions as to
the two conspiracy counts from the principles stated in
Braverman v. United States, 317 U. S. 49, and in Blockburger v. United States, 284 U. S. 299. On the authority
of the By averman case, petitioners claim that there is
but one conspiracy, namely, a conspiracy to fix prices.
In contrast to the single conspiracy described in that case
in separate counts, all charged under the general conspiracy statute, § 37, Criminal Code, 35 Stat. 1096, 18 U. S. C.
§ 88, we have here separate statutory offenses, one a conspiracy in. restraint of trade that may stop short of
monopoly, and the other a conspiracy to monopolize that
may not be content with restraint short of monopoly.
One is made criminal by § 1 and- the other by § 2 of the
Sherman Act.
We believe also that in accordance with the Blockburger
case, §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act require proof of
conspiracies which are reciprocally distinguishable from
and independent of each other although the objects of
the conspiracies may partially overlap. Cf. United States
v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 226. In the
present cases, the court below has found that there was
more than sufficient evidence to establish a conspiracy
in restraint of trade by price fixing and other means, and
also a conspiracy to monopolize trade with the power and
intent to exciude actual and potential competitors from
at least a part of the tobacco industry.
Petitioners further suggest that the second count (to
monopolize), and the fourth count (to conspire to monopolize), may lead to multiple punishment,. contrary to the
principle of the Blockburger case. Petitioners argue that
the Governmcnt's theory of monopolization calls for proof
of a joint enterprise with power and intent to exclude
competitors and, therefore, that the conspiracy to monop-

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

olize must be a part of that proof. It long has been
settled, however, that a "conspiracy to commit a crime
is a different offense from the crime that is the object
of the conspiracy." United States v. Rabinowich, 238
U. S.78, 85; Pinkerton v. United States, 328 U. S. 640,643.
Petitioners, for example, might have been convicted here
of a conspiracy to monopolize without ever having acquired the power to carry out the object of the conspiracy,
i. e., to exclude actual and potential competitors from the
cigarette field. Cf. United States v. Shapiro, 103 F. 2d
775, 776.
Although there is no issue of fact or question as to the
sufficiency of the evidence to be discussed here, nevertheless, it is necessary to summarize the principal facts of
that conspiracy to monopolize certain trade, which was
charged in the fourth count. These facts demonstrate
also the vigor and nature of the intent of the petitioners
to exclude competitors in order to maintain that monopoly
if need or occasion should offer itself to attempt such an
exclusion. To support the verdicts it was not necessary
to show power and intent to exclude all competitors, or
to show a conspiracy to exclude all competitors. The
requirement stated to the jury and contained in the statute was only that the offenders shall "monopolize any part
of the trade or commerce among the several States, or
with foreign nations." This particular conspiracy may
well have derived special vitality, in the eyes of the jury,
from the fact that its existence was established, not
through the presentation of a formal written agreement,
but through the evidence of widespread and effective conduct on the part of petitioners in relation to their existing
or potential competitors.
The three years at issue in the charges made were those
immediately preceding the filing of the informations on

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

July 24, 1940,6 but for convenience the statistics relied
upon generally have been those for the calendar years
1937, 1938 and 1939. Because of the circumstantial nature of most of the evidence and because of the essentiality
of figures for comparative years in establishing any restraint of trade or monopoly, the record also contains much
important material drawn from earlier years. Some appreciation of the history and development of the cigarette
industry is essential to an understanding of the cases.
However, in applying the law to the central issue in these
cases, the variations among the several petitioners participating in each step are not material in reaching the
conclusion on the legal question before us. There were
many variations in the business activities of the several
petitioners. It would be cumbersome and difficult to
state exactly which petitioners and what combination of
petitioners did each of the acts mentioned. It is, however, not fair to refer, without explanation, to all the acts
simply as having been done by "the petitioners." In its
usual sense, "the petitioners" would include all of them.
Obviously, however, the corporate and individual petitioners did not and could not all act precisely alike. To
refer only to "the corporate petitioners" would be unsatisfactory because, in, addition to American, Liggett and
Reynolds, there is the corporate petitioner, American Suppliers, Inc. It participated in only a limited number of
activities and then only as a subsidiary of American. Furthermore, as pointed out by Rey nolds in its petition for
rehearing and for enlargement of scope of review ift its
6 "No person shall be prosecuted, tried, or punished for any offense,
not capital,...
unless the indictment is found, or the information
is instituted, within three years next after such offense shall have

been committed."
18 U. S. C. § 582.

Rev. Stat. § 1044, as amended by 45 Stat. 51,

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

case, Reynolds' participation in some parts of the combination or conspiracy differs in many respects from that
of American and Liggett.
The fact is that Reynolds, in 1913, actually broke into
the cigarette field with its Camel cigarettes, and, as a
vigorous competitor of American, Liggett and P. Lorillard
Company, revolutionized the cigarette industry. Gradually Reynolds grew to be one of the "Big Three" with
American and Liggett, The later evidence then tends to
show that those three, in spite of the earlier competitive
history of Reynolds, have operated together in recent years
in violation of the Sherman Act. Similarly, much of the
evidence relating to the purchase of tobacco at auction
does not apply in precisely equal degree to each petitioner.
However, taking the story as a whole, each petitioner now
has been convicted of the same offense under like counts
and the problem before us is only to state the rule of
law to be applied in defining monopolization under the
Sherman Act as applied to all of the petitioners alike. To
distinguish among them at each stage would not change
the legal conclusion on the one issue here presented but
would confuse what should be a clear summary of the
facts essential to an understanding of that legal issue.
Accordingly, each reference to "petitioners" in this recital
will mean "some or all of the petitioners as disclosed by
the record."
First of all, the monopoly found by the jury to exist in
the present cases appears to have been completely separable from the old American Tobacco Trust which was
dissolved in 1911.' The conspiracy to monopolize and
?The history of the tobacco industry in America and of the litigation which resulted in the dissolution of the tobacco trust in 1911
is set forth in United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106193. See also, United States v. American Tobacco Co., 191 F. 371-431,

792

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U.S.

the monopolization charged here do not depend upon proof
relating to the old tobacco trust but upon a dominance
and control by petitioners in recent years over purchases
containing the decree of dissolution and see 164 F. 700-728, 1024,
for the report of the case in the Circuit Court. While the names
of some of the parties in the earlier case are those of the present
petitioners, the present proceedings do not reflect a failure on their
part to observe the requirements of the 1911 decree. Although the
decree of dissolution resulted in the separation of assets among the
American, Liggett and Reynolds companies, as well as P. Lorillard
Company and others, there is no contention here that common
ownership of stock and the interlocking of officers and directors among
those companies have continued to exist. The tobacco industry also
has changed from one dealing primarily in the distribution of smoking
tobacco, chewing tobacco, little cigars and cigarettes to one dealing
primarily in cigarettes. The record shows that in 1910 the weight
of the tobacco used in the domestic manufacture of cigarettes was
about 31,000,000 pounds out of 522,000,000 pounds, or less than
6%, whereas in 1939, it was 509,000,000 pounds out of 885,000,000
pounds, or 57.5%.
By the 1911 decree, the cigarette brands of the trust were distributed as follows: To American: Sweet Caporal, Pall Mall, Hassan and
Mecca. To Liggett: American Beauty, Fatima, Piedmont, Imperiales, Home Run and King Bee. To P. Lorillard Company: Helmar,
Murad, Mogul, Turkish Trophies and Egyptian Deities. Neither
the old trust nor the petitioners in the present cases have ever done
much general cigar business. Reynolds in 1911 had no cigarette business and it received none by the decree. It then was small in comparison with the other companies named. In 1913, it put its Camel
cigarettes on the market. 'These were neither Turkish, pseudoTurkish, nor Virginia cigarettes. They were made largely of burley
tobacco which had not been used in any successful cigarette up to
that time. They were "cased" or flavored-an old process in preparing plug tobacco but an innovation in cigarettes. That competition
was highly successful. Reynolds' sales rose to where, in 1919, it made
about 40% of all domestic cigarette sales in the United States. By
1917 its total production exceeded by 50% the total national production of cigarettes in 1911. In 1916, American launched a new brand
of burley cigarettes-Lucky Strikes. Liggett changed its Chesterfield

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

of the raw material and over the sale of the finished
product in the form of cigarettes. The fact, however, that
the purchases of leaf tobacco and the sales of so many
products. of the tobacco industry have remained largely
within the~same general group of business organizations
for over a generation, inevitably has contributed to the
ease with which control over competition within the
industry and the mobilization of power to resist new competition.can be exercised. A friendly relationship within
such a long established industry is, in itself, not only
natural but commendable and beneficial, as long as it does
not-breed illegal activities. Such a community of interest
in any industry, however, provides a natural foundation
for working policies and understandings favorable to the
insiders and unfavorable to outsiders. The verdicts indicate that practices of an informal and flexible nature were
adopted and that the results were so uniformly beneficial
to the petitioners in protecting their common interests
as against those of competitors that, entirely from circumstantial evidence, the jury found that a combination
or conspiracy existed among the petitioners from 1937 to
1940, with power and intent to exclude competitors to
such a substantial extent as to violate the Sherman Act
as interpreted by the trial court.8
brand from a Virginia type cigarette to a burley blend. Lorillard,
in 1926, launched a new brand of Old Gold cigarettes. By that time
the "Big Three" were American, Liggett and Reynolds and those
companies are the three cigarette-producing companies that are parties to the present proceedings.
8The identity of the parties referred to in the present cases is
more readily recognizable when they'are identified with their products
as follows:
American-Lucky Strike, Pall Mall (by a subsidiary), Herbert Tareyton cigarettes, Bull Durham tobacco, about 50 brands of chewing
tobacco and hundreds of brands of smoking tobacco.
Liggett--Chesterfield and about 15 other brands of cigarettes, 45

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

The position of .the petitioners in the cigarette industry
from 1931 to 1939 is clear from the following tables:
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL U. S.

PRODUCTION OF SMALL CIGARETTES--

1931-1939.
1931

1932

1933

1934

1935

1936

1937

1938

American ---------------------39.5 36.6
Liggett .
.------------------22.7 23.0

33.0
28.1

26.1
27.4

24.0
26.0

22:5
24.6

21.5
23.6

22.7
22.9

22.9
21.6

Reynolds ----------------------

1939

28.4

21.8

22.8

26.0

28,1

29.5

28.1

25.3

23.6

6.5
0 2
0.9
0.1
0.7
0.2

5.2
6.9
L4
0.1
3.1
1.0

4.7
5.5
0.8
0.2
4.4
0.2

4.1
8.3
2.0
0.5
4.4
0.6

3.8
9.6
3.1
1.4
3.0
0.7

4.3
9,6
4.1
1.9
2.2
0.8

4.7
9.9
5.4
2.5
2.4
1.0

5.1
9.9
5.7
3,1
2.7
1.3

5.8
10.6
7.1
3.3
2.4
1.3

Combined Percentages of American, Liggettand Reynolds... 90.7

81.4

83.9

79.5

78.0

76.7

73.3

71.0

68.0

Lorillard-------------------Brown & Williamson ---------Philip Morris ...................
Stephano .......................
Axton-Fisher ...................
Larus ........................

brands of smoking tobacco, including Velvet and Duke's Mixture
and over 25 brands of chewing tobacco.
Reynolds--Camel cigarettes, 12 brands of smoking tobacco, including
Prince Albert, and 88 brands of chewing tobacco.
P. Lorillard Company-Old Gold, and Sensation cigarettes, as well
as other tobacco products.
Philip Morris & Co., Ltd., Incorporated-Philip Morris, and Paul
Jones cigarettes.
British-American Tobacco Company, Limited-Many tobacco products, including those of its subsidiary, Brown & Williamson
Tobacco Corporation.
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation-Raleigh cigarettes.
The Imperial Tobacco Company, Ltd.-Tobacco products sold in
Great Britain and Ireland.
Universal Leaf Tobacco Company, Inc.-Dealers in leaf tobacco.
Stephano Brothers, Axton-Fisher Tobacco Company and Larus Bro.
Co., Inc., are all producers of the so-called "10 cent cigarettes."
Their cigarettes, like certain comparable cigarettes produced by
P. Lorillard Company and by Philip Morris & Co., Ltd., Incorporated, generally sell for 10 cents a package in contrast to 13
or 15 cents or more for the leading brands of burley blend
cigarettes.

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.

795

Opinion of the Court.

781

VOLUME OF CIGARETTE

PRODUCTION-1931-1939.

(Billions of cigarettes.)
1931

1932

1933

Total IU. S. Production ------_117.1
American -------------------46.2
Liggett -------------------26.6
33.3
Reynolds --------------------

106.6
39.0
24.6
23.2

114.9
37.9
32.2
26.2

1934

1933

1936

130.0 140.0
33.9 33.5
35.6 36.3
33.8 39.4

158.9
35.8
39.1
46.9

Lorillard ----------------------

7.6

5.5

5.4

5.3

Brown & Williamson ---------Philip Morris----------------

0.3
1.0

7.3
1.5

6.3
0.9

10.8
2.6

Stephano--------------------

0.1

0.1

0.2

Axton-Fisher ----------------

0.8

3.3

5.0

Larus --------

0.3

1.0

0.3

_-------------

5.3 6.8

1937

1938

170.0 171.7
36.6 39.0
40.2 39.3
47.8 43.5

1939

180.7
41.4
39.0
42.6

8.1

8.8

10.5

13.4
4.4

15.2
6.4

16.8
9.2

17.1
9.7

19.1
12.8

0.7

2.0

3.0

4.2

5.4

6.0

5.7

4.2

3.5

4.1

4.5

4.3

0.7

1.0

1.2

1.7

2.2

2.3

Combined volume of American,
Liggett and Reynolds --------106.1 86.8 96.3 103.3 109.2

121.8 124.6 121.8 123.0

The first table shows that, although American, Liggett
and Reynolds gradually dropped in their percentage of
the national domestic cigarette production from 90.7%
in 1931 to 73.3%, 71% and 68%, respectively, in 1937,
1938 and 1939, they have accounted at all times for more
than 68%, and usually for more than 75%, of the national
production. The balance of 'the cigarette production has
come from six other companies. No one of those six ever
has produced more than the 10.6% once reached by Brown
& Williamson in 1939. The second table shows that, while
the percentage of cigarettes produced by American, Liggett and Reynolds in the United States dropped gradually
from 90.7% to 68%, their combined volume of production
actually increased from 106 billion in 1931 to about 125
billion, 122 billion and 123 billion, respectively, in 1937,
1938 and 1939. The remainder of the production was
divided among the other six companies. No one of those
six ever has- produced more than about 19 billion cigarettes a year,.which was the high point reached by Brown
& Williamson in 1939.
The further dominance of American, Liggett and Reynolds within their special field of burley blend cigarettes, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

compared with the so-called "10 cent cigarettes," is also
apparent. In 1939, the 10 cent cigarettes constituted
about 14/,% of the total domestic cigarette production.
Accordingly, the 68% of tne total cigarette production
enjoyed by American, Liggett and Reynolds amounted to
80% of that production within their special field of cigarettes. The second table shows a like situation. In
1939, the 10 cent cigarettes accounted for 25.6 billion of
the cigarettes produced. Deducting this from the 57.7
billion cigarettes produced by others than American, Liggett and Reynolds left only about 32 billion cigarettes
of a comparable grade produced in that year by cor petitors of the "Big Three" as against the 123 billion produced by them. In addition to the combined production
by American, Liggett and Reynolds in 1939 of over 68%
of all domestic cigarettes, they also produced over 63%
of the smoking tobacco and over 44% of the chewing
tobacco. They never were important factors in the cigar
or snuff fields of the tobacco industry.
The foregoing demonstrates the basis of the claim of
American, Liggett and Reynolds to the title of the "Big
Three." The marked dominance enjoyed by each of these
three, in roughly equal proportions, is emphasized by the
fact that the smallest of them at all times showed over
twice the production of the largest outsider. Without
adverse criticism of it, comparative size on this great scale
inevitably increased the power of these three to dominate
all phases of their industry. "Size carries with it an
)pportunity for abuse that is not to be ignored when the
opportunity is proved to have been utilized in the past."
United States v. Swift & Co., 286 U. S. 106, 116. An
intent to use this power to maintain a monopoly was found
by the jury in these cases.
The record further shows that the net worth of American, Liggett and Reynolds in terms of their total assets,

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

less current liabilities, rose from $277,000,000 in 1912 to
over $551,000,000 in 1939. Their net annual earnings,
before payment of interest and dividends, rose from about
$28,000,000 in 1912 to over $75,000,000 in 1939. The
record is full of evidence of the close relationship between
their large expenditures for national advertising of cigarettes and resulting volumes of sales. In each of the
years 1937, 1938 and 1939, American, Liggett and Reynolds expended a total of over $40,000,000 a year for advertising. Such advertising is not here criticized as a business expense. Such advertising may benefit indirectly
the entire industry, including the competitors of the advertisers. Such tremendous advertising, however, is also
a widely published warning that these companies possess
and fcnow how to use a powerful offensive and defensive
weapon against new competition. New competition dare
not enter such a field, unless it be well supported by
comparable national advertising. Large inventories of
leaf tobacco, and large sums required for payment of federal taxes in advance of actual sales, further emphasize the
effectiveness of a well financed monopoly in this field
against potential competitors if there merely exists an
intent to exclude such competitors. Prevention of all
potential competition is the natural program for maintaining a monopoly here, rather than any program of
actual exclusion. "Prevention" is cheaper and more
effective than any amount of "cure."
With this background of a substantial monopoly,
amounting to over two-thirds of the entire domestic field
of cigarettes, and to over 8C7o of the field of comparable
cigarettes, and with the opposition confined to several
small competitors, the jury could have found from the
actual operation of the petitioners that there existed a
combination or conspiracy among them not only in
restraint of trade, but to monopolize a part of the tobacco

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

industry. The trial court described this combination or
conspiracy as an "essential element" and "indispensable
ingredient" of the offenses charged. It is therefore only
in conjunction with such a combination or conspiracy
that these cases will constitute a precedent. The conspiracy so established by the verdicts under the second
count appears to have been one to fix and control prices
and other-material conditions relating to the purchase of
raw material in the form of leaf tobacco for use in the
manufacture of cigarettes. It also appears to have been
one to fix and control prices and other material conditions
relating to the distribution and sale of the product of
such tobacco in the form of cigarettes. The jury found
a conspiracy to monopolize to a substantial degree the
leaf market and the cigarette market. The jury's verdicts
also found a power and intent on the part of the petitioners
to exclude competition to a substantial extent in the
tobacco industry.
I.
The verdicts show that the jury found that the petitioners conspired to fix prices and to exclude undesired
competition against them in the purchase of the domestic
type of flue-cured tobacco and of burley tobacco. These
are raw materials essential to the production of cigarettes
of the grade sold by the petitioners and also, to some
extent, of the 10 cent grade of cigarettes which constitutes
the only substantial competition to American, Liggett and
Reynolds in the cigarette field of the domestic tobacco
industry. The tobaccos involved in these cases are the
flue-cured, burley and Maryland tobaccos. The fluecured or bright tobacco is grown in a number of areas
called "belts." These are in Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia and Florida. The tobacco takes
its name of flue-cured from the "curing" process to which

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

it is subjected and which consists of hanging the tobacco
leaves in barns heated by a system of flues. Between
50% and 60% of the total flue-cured product is for export
to England. The petitioners purchased a combined total
of between 50% and 80% of the domestic flue-cured
tobacco. The burley tobacco is produced largely in the
burley belt in Kentucky and Tennessee. It is cured without heating, by exposing the leaves to the air in barns
in which they are hung. The petitioners purchased from
60% to 80% of the annual crop of burley. The Maryland
tobacco is grown in the southern part of that State. Some
of it is sold in auction markets, the rest is packed in hogsheads'and sold in two Baltimore warehouses by the Maryland Tobacco Growers' Association and by commercial
merchants. The greater part of the Maryland tobacco
was purchased by petitioners. The crops in the more
southerly belts mature first and the burley crops are not
ready for market until late fall. When the tobacco is
ready for market the farmers strip, sort and grade the
leaves according to their judgment as to quality, tie them
into bundles called "hands" (except in Georgia where the
tobacco remains loose), and truck them to tobacco auction
markets. In the possession of the farmers the crops are
perishable as they require a redrying process. Under the
modern system of marketing, the tobacco cannot be stored
to await another season. The farmers have no facilities
for redrying the tobacco and therefore must sell their
crops in the season in which those crops are raised or
they will lose them. The petitioners kept large enough
tobacco stocks on hand to last about three years. The
value of these stocks was over $100,000,000 for each company and these stocks assured their independence of the
market in any one year. Auction markets for the sale
of leaf tobacco have been in operation for many years
and were well established long before the dissolution of

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

the tobacco trust in 1911.
Such markets are located in
75 towns in the flue-cured region and 42 towns in the
burley area. There are four Maryland markets. Since
the crop in the Georgia Belt matures first, the markets
in that belt open first, usually about August 1. The
auctioneers then follow the marketing seasons to the
North, reaching the "Old Belt" in North Carolina and
Virginia in the latter part of September. The dates for
opening the markets in the flue-cured belts are set by
the Tobacco Association of the United States of which
buyers, including petitioners, warehousemen and others
connected with the industry, but not including farmers,
are members. Burley sales begin in Lexington, Kentucky,
which is the principal market, on the first Monday in
December. The other burley markets open the next day.
Sales continue, excepting at Christmas time, for the next
few months.
The Government introduced evidence showing that,
although there was no written or express agreement discovered among American, Liggett and Reynolds, their
practices included a clear course of dealing. This evidently convinced the jury of the existence of a combina• tion or conspiracy to fix and control prices and practices
as to domestic leaf tobacco, both in restraint of trade as
such, and to establish a substantially impregnable defense
against any attempted intrusion by potential competitors
into these markets.
It appeared that petitioners refused to purchase tobacco
on these markets unless the other petitioners were also
represented thereon. There were attempts made by

9 For a description of. the auction methods of selling in Georgia,
see Townsend v. Yeornans, 301 U. S. 441, 445, and in North Carolina,
see Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1, 7-8. See also, market practices
described in the report of the Committee on Agriculture of the House
of Representatives, June 5, 1935, to accompany H. R. 8026. H. Rep.
No. 1102, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

others to open new tobacco markets but none of the
petitioners would participate in them unless the other
petitioners were present. Consequently, such markets
were failures due to the absence of buyers. It appeared
that the tobacco farmersdid not want to sell their tobacco
on a market in which the only purchasers were speculators
or dealers. The prices paid under such circumstances
were lik-ely to be low in order that the purchasers eventually might resell the tobacco to the manufacturing
companies. The foreign purchasers likewise would not
participate without the presence of the petitioners. In
this way the new tobacco markets and their locations were
determined by the unanimous consent of the petitioners
and, in arriving at their determination, the petitioners
consulted with each other as to whether or not a community deserved a market.
The Government presented evidence to support its
claim that, before the markets opened, the petitioners
placed limitations and restrictions on the prices which
their buyers were permitted to pay for tobacco. None
of the buyers exceeded these price ceilings. Grades of
tobacco were formulated in such a way as to result in
the absence of competition between the petitioners.
There was manipulation of the price of lower grade
tobaccos in order to restrict competition from manufacturers of the lower priced cigarettes. Methods used
included the practice of the petitioners of calling their
respective buyers in, prior to the opening of the anjiual
markets, and giving them instructions as to the prices to
be paid for leaf tobacco in each of the markets. These
instructions were in terms of top prices or price ranges.
The price ceilings thus established for the buyers were
the same for each of them. In case of tie bids the auctioneer awarded the sale customarily to the buyer who
bid first. Under this custom the buyers representing the
petitioners often made bids on various baskets of tobacco

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

before an opening price could be announced so that they
-might have their claim to the tobacco recognized at the
understood ceiling price in the case of tie bids. Often
a buyer would bid ahead by indicating that he wanted
a certain basket further along in the line of baskets and,
in such cases, the tobacco in question was awarded to
such buyer without the mention of any price, it being
understood that it was sold at the top price theretofore
previously determined upon.
Where one or two of the petitioners secured their percentage of the crop on a certain market or were not interested in the purchase of certain offerings of tobacco, their
buyers, nevertheless, would enter the bidding in order
to force the other petitioners to bid up to the maximum
price. The petitioners were not so much concerned with
the prices they paid for the leaf tobacco as that each
should pay the same price for the same grade and that
none would secure any advantage in purchasing tobacco.
They were all to be on the same basis as far as the expenses
of their purchases went. The prices which were set as
top prices by petitioners, or by the first of them to purchase on the market, became, with few exceptions, the
top prices prevailing on those markets. Competition also
was eliminated between petitioners by the purchase of
grades of tobacco in which but one of them was interested.
To accomplish this, each company formulated the grades
which it alone wished to purchase. The other companies
recognized the grades so formulated as distinctive grades
and did not compete for them. While the differences
between the grades so formulated were distinguishable
by the highly trained special buyers, they were in reality
so minute as to be inconsequential. This element, however, did not mean that a company could bid any price
it wished for its especially formulated grades of tobacco.
The other companies prevented that by bidding up the
tobacco, at least to a point where they did not risk being

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

awarded the sale to themselves. Each company determined in advance what portion of the entire crop it would
purchase before the market for that season opened. The
petitioners then separately informed their buyers of the
percentage of the crop which they wished to purchase and
gave instructions that only such a percentage should be
purchased on each market. The purchases were spread
evenly over the different markets throughout the season.
No matter what the size of the crop might be, the petitioners were able to purchase their predetermined percentages thereof within the price limits determined upon
by them, thus indicating a stabilized market. The respective petitioners employed supervisors whose functions
were to see that the prices were the same on one market
as on another. Where, because of difference in appraisals
of grades or other similar factors, the bidding was out of
line with the predetermined price limits or there was a
tendency for prices to vary from those on other markets,
the supervisors sought to maintain the same prices and
grades on different markets. This was sought to be
achieved by instructions to buyers to change the prices
bid or the percentages purchased, and such actions proved
to be successful in maintaining and equalizing the prices
on the different markets.
At a time when the manufacturers of lower priced cigarettes were beginning to manufacture them in quantity,
the petitioners commenced to make large purchases of
the cheaper tobacco leaves used for the manufacture of
such lower priced cigarettes. No explanation was offered
as to how or where this tobacco was used by petitioners.
The compositions of, their respective brands of cigarettes,
calling for the use of more expensive tobaccos remained
unchanged during this period of controversy and up to
the end of the trial. The Government claimed that such
purchases of cheaper tobacco evidenced a combination
and a purpose among the petitioners to deprive the man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

ufacturers of cheaper cigarettes of the tobacco necessary
for their manufacture, as well as to raise the price of
such tobacco to such a point that cigarettes made therefrom could not be sold at a sufficiently low price to compete
with the petitioners' more highly advertised brands.
II.
The verdicts show also that the jury found that the
petitioners conspired to fix prices and to exclude undesired competition in the distribution and sale of their
principal products. The petitioners sold and distributed
their products to jobbers and to selected dealers who
bought at list prices, less discounts. Almost all of the
million or more dealers who handled the respective petitioners' products throughout the country consisted of such
establishments as small storekeepers, gasoline station
operators and lunch room proprietors who purchased the
cigarettes from jobbers. The jobbers in turn derived
their profits from the difference between the wholesale
price paid by them and the price charged by them to
local dealers. A great advantage therefore accrued to
any dealer buying at the discounted or wholesale list prices.
Selling to dealers at jobbers' prices was called "direct
selling" and the dealers as well as the jobbers getting
those prices were referred to as being on the "direct list."
The list prices charged and the discounts allowed by petitioners have been practically identical since 1923 and absolutely identical since 1928. Since the latter date, only
seven changes have been made by the three companies
and those have been identical in amhount. The increases
were first announced by Reynolds. American and
Liggett thereupon increased their list prices in identical
amounts.
The following recoid of price changes is circumstantial
evidence of the existence of :a conspiracy and of a power
and intent to exclude competition coming from cheaper

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

grade cigarettes. During the two years preceding June,
1931, the petitioners produced 90% of the total cigarette
production in the United States. In that month tobacco
farmers were receiving the lowest prices for their crops
since 1905. The costs to the petitioners for tobacco: leaf,
therefore, were lower than usual during the past 25 years,
and their manufacturing costs had been declining. It
was one of the worst years of financial and economic
depression in the history of the country. On June' 23,
1931, Reynolds, without previous notification or warning
to the trade or public, raised the list price of Camel cigarettes, constituting its leading cigarette brand, from $6.40
to $6.85 a thousand. The same day, American increased
the list price for Lucky Strike cigarettes, its leading brand,
and Liggett the price for Chesterfield cigarettes, its leading
brand, to the identical price of $6.85 a thousand. No
economic justification for this raise was demonstrated.
The president of Reynolds stated that it was "to express
our own courage for the future and our own confidence
in our industry." . The president of American gave as
his reason for the increase, "the opportunity of making
some money." See 147 F. 2d 93,103. He further claimed
that because Reynolds had raised its list price, Reynolds
would therefore have additional funds for advertising and
American had raised its price in order to have a similar
amount for advertising. The officials of Liggett claimed
that they .thought the increase was a mistake as there did
not seem to be any reason for making a price advance but
they contended that unless they also raised their list price
for Chesterfields, the other companies would have greater
resources to spend in advertising and thus would put
Chesterfield cigarettes at a competitive disadvantage.
This general price increase soon resulted in higher retail
prices and in a loss in volume of sales. Yet in 1932, in
the midst of the national depression with the sales of the
petitioners' cigarettes falling off greatly in number, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

petitioners still were making tremendous profits as a result
of the price increase. Their net profits in that year
amounted to more than $100,000,000. This was one of
the three biggest years in their history.
Before 1931, certain smaller companies had manufactured cigarettes retailing at 10 cents a package, which was
several cents lower than the retail price for the leading
brands of the petitioners. Up to that time, the sales
of the 10 cent cigarettes were negligible. However, after
the above described increase in list prices of the petitioners
in 1931, the. 10 cent brands made serious inroads upon
the sales of the petitioners. These cheaper brands of
cigarettes were sold at a list price of $4.75 a thousand and
from 1931 to 1932 the sales of these cigarettes multiplied
30 times, rising from 0.28% of the total cigarette sales
of the country in June, 1931, to 22.78% in November,
1932. In response to this threat of competition from the
manufacturers of the 10 cent brands, the petitioners, in
January, 1933, cut the list price of their three leading
brands from $6.85 to $6 a thousand. In February, they
cut again to $5.50 a thousand. The evidence tends to
show that this cut was directed at the competition of the
10 cent cigarettes. Reports that previously had been sent
in by various officials and representatives to their companies told of the petitioners' brands losing in competition
with the 10 cent brands. The petitioners were interested
in a sufficiently low retail price for their products so that
they would defeat the threat from the lower priced cigarettes and found that, in order to succeed in their objective, it was necessary that there be not more than a 3 cent
differential on each package at retail between the cheaper
cigarettes and their own brands. The petitioners' cuts
in their list prices and the subsequent reductions in the
retail prices of their products resulted in a victory over
the 10 cent brands. The letters of petitioners' representatives to their companies reported upon the progress of

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

this battle, giving an account of the decline in sales of
the 10 cent brands because of the price reductions in
the "15-cent brands," and prophesying that certain of
the 10 cent brands would "pass out of the picture." Following the first price cut by petitioners, the sales of the
10 cent brands fell off considerably. After the second
cut they fell off to a much greater extent. When the
sale of the 10 cent brands had dropped from 22.78% of
the total cigarette sales in November, 1932, to 6.43% in
May, 1933, the petitioners, in January, 1934, raised the
list price of their leading brands from $5.50 back up to
$6.10 a thousand. During the period that the list price
of $5.50 a thousand was in effect, Camels and Lucky Strikes
were being sold at a loss by Reynolds and American.
Liggett at the same time was forced to curtail all of its
normal business activities and cut its advertising to the
bone in order to sell at this price. The petitioners, in
1937, again increased the list prices of their above named
brands to $6.25 a thousand and in July, 1940, to $6.53 a
thousand.
Certain methods used by the petitioners to secure a
reduction in the retail prices of their cigarettes were in
evidence. Reynolds and Liggett required their retailers
to price the 10 cent brands at a differential of not more
than 3 cents below Camel and Chesterfield cigarettes.
They insisted upon their dealers correcting a greater differential by increasing the retail price of the 10 cent
brands to 11 cents with petitioners' brands at 14 cents a
package, or by requiring that petitioners' brands be priced
at 13 cents with the lower priced cigarettes at 10 cents
a package. Salesmen for Liggett were instructed to narrow the differential to 3 cents, it being deemed of no
consequence whether the dealer raised the price of the
10 cent brands or reduced the price of Chesterfields.
Reynolds referred to a differential of more than 3 cents
as "discriminatory" on the ground that the dealer then

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of thL Court.

328 U. S.

would make a higher gross profit on the higher priced
cigarettes than on the 10 cent brands. After the list
price reductions were made and at the height of the price
war, the petitioners commenced the distribution of posters
advertising their brands at 10 cents a package and made
attempts to have dealers meet these prices. Among the
efforts used to achieve their objectives, petitioners gave
dealers direct list privileges of purchase, together with
discounts, poster advertising displays, cash subsidies and
free goods. In addition to the use of these inducements,
petitioners also used threats and penalties to enforce compliance with their retail price program, removed dealers
from the direct lists, cancelled arrangements for window
advertising, changed credit terms with a resulting handicap to recalcitrant dealers, discontinued cash allowances
for advertising, refused to make deals giving free goods,
and made use of price cutters to whom they granted advantageous privileges to drive down retail prices where a
parity, or price equalization, was not maintained by dealers between brands of petitioners or where the dealers
refused to maintain the 3 cent differential between the
10 cent brands and the leading brands of petitioners' cigarettes. There was evidence that when dealers received
-an announcement of the price increase from one of the
petitioners and attempted to purchase some of the leadin g
brands of cigarettes from the other petitioners at their
unchanged prices before announcement of a similar
change, the latter refused to fili such orders until their
prices were alsa raised, thus bringing about the same result
as if the changes had been precisely simultaneous.
III.

It was on the basis of such evidence that the Circuit
Court of Appeals found that the verdicts of the jury were
sustained by sufficient evidence on each count. The
question squarely presented here by the order of this

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

Court in allowing the writs of certiorari is whether actual
exclusion of competitors is necessary to the crime of
*monopolization in these cases under § 2 of the Sherman
Act. We agree with the lower courts that such actual
exclusion of competitors is not necessary to that crime
in these cases and that the instructions given to the jury,
and hereinbefore quoted, correctly defined the crime. A
correct interpretation of the statute and of the authorities makes it the crime of monopolizing, under § 2 of
the Sherman Act, for parties, as in these cases, to combine
or conspire to acquire or maintain the power to exclude
competitors from any part of the trade or commerce
among the several states or with foreign nations, provided
they also have such a power that they are able, as a group,
to exclude actual or potential competition from the field
and provided that they have the intent and purpose to
exercise that power. See UnitedStates v. Socony-Vacuum
Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 226, n. 59 and authorities cited.
It is not the form of the combination or the particular
means used but the result to be achieved that the statute
condemns. It is not of importance whether the means
used to accomplish the unlawful objective are in themselves lawful or unlawful. Acts done to give effect to the
conspiracy may be in themselves wholly innocent acts.
Yet, if they are part of the sum of the acts which are relied
upon to effectuate the conspiracy which the statute forbids, they come within its prohibition. No formal agreement is necessary to constitute an unlawful conspiracy.
Often crimes are a matter of inference deduced from the
acts of the person accused and done in pursuance of a
criminal purpose. Where the conspiracy is proved, as
here, from the evidence of the action taken in concert by
the parties to it, it is all the more convincing proof of an
intent to exercise the power of exclusion acquired through
that conspiracy. The essential combination or conspiracy
in violation of the Sherman Act may be found in a course

810

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

of dealing or other circumstances as well as in an exchange of words. United States v. Schrader's Son, 252
U. S. 85. Where the circumstances are such as to warrant
a jury in finding that the conspirators had a unity of
purpose or a common design and understanding, or a
meeting of minds in an unlawful arrangement, the conclusion that a conspiracy is established is justified. Neither proof of exertion of the power to exclude nor proof
of actual exclusion of existing or potential competitors
is essential to sustain a charge of monopolization under
the Sherman Act.
In Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469, 496, this
Court said in a footnote, "On finding . . . a power to
control the output, supply of the market and the transportation facilities of potential competitors, in the anthracite coal market, the arrangement was held void in United
States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26, 47-48." It has been
held that regardless of the use made of it, a power resulting from the deliberately calculated purchase of a control,
which enables a holding company to dominate two great
competing interstate railroad carriers and two great competing coal companies engaged extensively in mining and
selling anthracite coal which must be distributed over
these railroads, is a menace and an undue restraint upon
interstate commerce within the meaning of the Anti-Trust
Act and is in flagrant violation of the prohibition against
mohopoly in the Second Section of that Act. United
States v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26. In Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, in referring to
the holding company device there in issue, this Court
said that the mere existence of such a combination and
the power acquired by the holding company as its trustee
constituted a menace to and a direct restraint upon that
freedom of commerce which Congress intended to recognize and protect and which the public is entitled to have

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

Opinion of the Court.

protected. A combination may be one in restraint of
interstate trade or commerce or to monopolize a part of
such trade or commerce in violation of the Sherman Act,
although such restraint or monopoly may not have been
actually attempted to any harmful extent. See United
States v. International Harvester Co., 214 F. 987, id.,
274 U. S. 693. The authorities support the view that
the material consideration in determining whether a
monopoly exists is not that prices are raised and that
competition actually is excluded but that power exists to
raise prices or to exclude competition when it is desired
to do so. United States v. American Tobacco Co., 164
F. 700, 721, remanded for further proceedings, 221 U. S.
106, 188. "It is u-doubtedly true . . . that trade and
commerce are 'monopolized' within the meaning of the
federal statute, when, as a result of efforts to that end,
such power is obtained that a few persons acting together
can control the prices of a commodity moving in interstate commerce. It is not necessary that the power thus
obtained should be exercised. Its existence is sufficient."
United States v. Patten, 187 F. 664, 672, reversed on other
grounds, 226 U. S. 525. Cf. North American Co. v.
S. E. C., 327 U. S.686.
The precise question before us has not been decided
previously by this Court. However, on March 12, 1945,
two weeks before the grant of the writs of certiorari in
the present cases, a decision rendered in a suit in equity
brought under §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act
against the Aluminum Company of America closely approached the issue we have here. That case was decided
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
under unique circumstances which add to its weight as
a precedent. United States v. Aluminum Co. of America,
148 F. 2d 416. That court sat in that case under a new
statute authorizing it to render a decision "in lieu of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

decision by the Supreme Court" and providing that such
decision "shall be final and there shall be no review of
such decision by appeal or certiorari or otherwise." '0
10"In every suit in equity brought in any district court of the

United States under any of said Acts [including the Sherman AntiTrust Act], wherein the United States is complainant, an appeal
from the final decree of the district court will lie only to the Supreme
Court and must be taken within sixty days from the entry thereof:
Provided, however, That if, upon any such appeal, it shall be found
that, by reason of disqualification, there shall not be a quorum of
Justices of the Supreme Court qualified to participate in the consideration of the case on the merits, then, in lieu of a decision by the
Supreme Court, the case shall be immediately certified by the Supreme
Court to the circuit court of appeals of the circuit in which is located
the district in which the suit was brought which court shall thereupon
have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal in such case, and
it shall be the duty of the senior circuit judge of said circuit court
of appeals, qualified to participate in the consideration of the case on
the merits, to designate immediately three circuit judges of said court,
one of whom shall be himself and the other two of whom shall be
the two circuit judges next in order of seniority to himself, to hear
and determine the appeal in such case and it shall be the duty of the
court, so comprised, to assign the case for argument at the earliest
practicable date and to hear and determine the same, and the decision
of the three circuit judges so designated, or of a majority in number
thereof,,sbhall be final and there shall be no review of such decision
by appeal or certiorari or otherwise. . ... " 32 Stat. 823, as amended
by 58 Stat. 272, 15 U. S. C. Supp. IV, § 29.
The proviso in the above section was added by Public Law 332,
78th Cong., 2d Sess., approved June 9, 1944, which also made the
Act applicable "to every case pending before the Supreme Court of
the United States on the date of its enactment." 58 Stat. 272. The
case against the Aluminum Company of America was then pending
in this Court and, on June 12, 1944, this Court 'certified it to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit because of the lack
of a quorum of Justices of the Supreme Court qualified to participate
in the consideration of it on its merits. It was tried before the three
senior judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals (Judges Learned Hand,
Swan and Augustus N. Hand) and is the only case that has been
tried under that proviso.

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

813

Opinion of the Court.

We find the following statements from the opinion of
the court in that case to be especially appropriate here
and we welcome this opportunity to endorse them:
"Many people believe that possession of unchallenged
economic power deadens initiative, discourages thrift
and depresses energy; that immunity from competition is a narcotic, and rivalry is a stimulant, to industrial progress; that the spur of constant stress is
necessary to counteract an inevitable disposition to
let well enough alone. . . . These considerations,
which we have suggested only as possible purposes
of the Act, we think the decisions prove to have been
in fact its purposes. [ 148 F. 2d at 427.]
"Starting, however, with the authoritative premise
that all contracts fixing prices are unconditionally
prohibited, the only possible difference between them
and a monopoly is that while a monopoly necessarily
involves an equal, or even greater, power to fix prices,
its mere existence might be thought not to constitute
an exercise of that power. That distinction is nevertheless purely formal; it would be valid only so long
as the monopoly remained wholly inert; it would
disappear as soon as the monopoly began to operate;
for, when it did-that is, as soon as it began to sell
at all-it must sell at some price and the only price
at which it could sell is a price which it itself fixed.
Thereafter the power and its exercise must needs
coalesce. Indeed it would be absurd to condemn such
contracts unconditionally, and not to extend the condemnation to monopolies; for the contracts are only
steps toward that entire control which monopoly
confers: they are really partial monopolies. [Id.
427-428.]
"It doe not follow because 'Alcoa' had such a
monopoly, that it 'monopolized' the ingot market:
it may not have achieved monopoly; monopoly may
have been thrust upon it. If it had been a combination of existing smelters which united the whole indus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

try and controlled the production of all aluminum
ingot, it would certainly have 'monopolized' the market. In several decisions the Supreme Court has decreed the dissolution of such combinations, although
they had engaged in no unlawful trade practices.
.... We may start therefore with the premise that
to have combined ninety per cent of the producers
of ingot would have been to 'monopolize' the ingot
market; and, so far as concerns the public interest,
it can make no difference whether an existing competition is put an end t_, or whether prospective
competition is prevented. The Clayton Act itself
speaks in that alteriiative: 'to injure, destroy, or
prevent competition.' § 13 (a), 15 U. S. C. A. [Id.
429.]
"It insists that it never excluded competitors; but we
can think of no more effective exclusion than progressively to embrace each new opportunity as it
opened, and to face every newcomer with new capacity already geared into a great organization, having
the advantage of experience, trade connections and
the elite of personnel. Only in case we interpret
'exclusion' as limited to manoeuvres not honestly
industrial, but actuated solely by a desire to prevent
competition, can such a course, indefatigably pursued,
be deemed not 'exclusionary.' So to limit it would
in our judgment emasculate the Act; would permit
just such consolidations as it was designed to prevent.
[Id. 431.]
"In order to fall within § 2, the monopolist must have
both the power to monopolize, and the intent to
monopolize. To read the passage as demanding any
'specific' intent, makes nonsense of it, for no monopolist monopolizes unconscious of what he is doing."
[Id. 432.]
In the present cases, the petitioners have been found
to have conspired to establish a monopoly and also to have
the power and intent to establish and maintain the mo-

AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. v. U. S.
781

RUTLEDGE,

J., concurring.

nopoly. To hold that they do not come within the prohibition of the Sherman Act would destroy the force of
that Act. Accordingly, the instructions of the trial court
under § 2. of the Act are approved and the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed. 1
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

entirely agrees. with the

judgment and the opinion in these cases. He, however,
would have enlarged the scope of the orders allowing the
petitions for certiorari so as to permit consideration of
the alleged errors in regard to the selection of the jury.
MR. JUSTICE REED

and MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

took no

part in the consideration or decision of these cases.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

concurring.

I concur in the Court's opinion and judgment. In doing
so, however, I express no judgment concerning other questions determined on the appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 147 F. 2d 93, and presented in the application
for certiorari or the later petition for rehearing and enlargement of the scope of review here, including the question whether upon the particular facts the law has been
applied in such a manner as to bring about, in substantial
effect, multiple punishment for the same offense. Cf.
Pinkerton v. United States, ante, pp. 640, 648, dissenting
opinion.
" Upon suggestion of the death of Edward H. Thurston, a petitioner
in case No. 19, a motion to dismiss the writ of certiorari as to him
was granted by the Court on February 11, 1946, 327 U. S. 764. It
remains for the Circuit Court of Appeals and the District Court of
the United .States for the Eastern District of Kentucky to take such
further action as law and justice may require. See Singer v. United
States, 323 U. S. 338, 346; United States v. Johnson, 319 U. S. 503,
520.

816

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE, J., concurring.

328 U. S.

That question has been discussed in the briefs and the
argument, for its bearing uppn the disposition of the single
question which certiorari was granted to review, namely,
"whether actual exclusion of competitors is necessary to
the crime of monopolization under § 2 of 'the Sherman
Act." 324 U. S. 836. On this issue I have no doubt of
the correctness of the Court's conclusion that the offense
of monopolization is complete when power is acquired to
exclude competitors and therefore that actual exclusion
neednot be shown, for the reasons set forth in the opinion.
Whether, in this view, multiple punishment may arise
upon application of the law to particular facts under
counts charging conspiracy in restraint of trade, monopolization, and conspiracy to monopolize presents a different question which can be determined only by examination
of the manner in which the particular application has
been made. Since, in view of the limited character of
our action in granting certiorari, neither the issue of multiple punishment nor the facts of record upon which it
arises are before us for review, it would be inappropriate
to express opinion on that question.

