TRADE COMM'N v. A. P. W. PAPER CO.

193

Syllabus.

189

employees such as petitioners; but § 10 standing alone
shows the clearest possible purpose to bar all railroad
employees from overcharging for their own or.for the railroad's illegitimate gain. The Interstate Commerce Act
imposes the same duty on ticket sellers and clerks of common carriers as that imposed on railroad officers or other
employees: to treat all the public alike as to the terms and
conditions of transportation. Railroad accommodations
are thus not to depend upon who will or can pay more
because of greater need or a longer purse. See United
States v. Estes, 6 F. 2d 902, 905.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. A. P. W. PAPER
CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 320. Argued February 4, 1946.-Decided May 6,1946.
Prior to 1905 respondent used "Red Cross" as a trade name and
displayed the Red Cross symbol on its products. Section 4 of the
American Red Cross Act of January 5, 1905, forbade "any person
or corporation, other than the Red Cross of America, not now
lawfully entitled to use the sign of the Red Cross, hereafter to use
such sign . . .for the purposes of trade or as an advertisement to

induce the sale of any article whatsoever." That section was
amended in 1910 so as to forbid the use of the symbol or the words
"Red Cross" for the purpose of trade or as an advertisement "to
induce the sale of any article" or "for any business or charitable
purpose" by any person other than the American National Red
Cross or the sanitary and hospital authorities of the army and
navy, except that "no person, corporation, or association that actu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.
ally used . .. the said emblem .

.

328 U. S.

. or words for any lawful pur-

pose prior to" January 5, 1905 "shall be deemed forbidden by this
Act to continue the use thereof . . ."

The Geneva Convention of

1929, ratified by the United States in 1932, bound the contracting
Governments to take or recommend to their legislatures such measures as might be necessary "to prevent the use by private persons . . . of the emblem or the name of the Red Crbss," from the

time set in the legislation and not later than five years after the
effective date of the convention. Congress enacted no legislation
to effectuate this undertaking. In 1942 the Federal Trade Commission charged petitioner with a violation of § 5 (a) of the Federal
Trade Commission Act, as amended by the Act of March 21, 1938,
which makes unlawful "unfair methods of competition in commerce,
and unfair or deceptive acts or practices in commerce." After
appropriate administrative proceedings, the Commission found that
respondent's use of the words and symbol were misleading to the
purchasing public and ordered respondent to cease and desist from
using the words "Red Cross" to describe its products and from
displaying the symbol on them. Held:
1. Under the facts of this case, the Commission may not absolutely forbid the use of the words and symbol by respondent.
Pp. 198,200,204.
(a) The 1910 Act granted, or at least recognized, the right of
pre-1905 users to continue their use. P. 200.
(b) This specific right was not intended to be swept away by
the 1938 amendment to the FederaI Trade Commission Act. P. 202.
(c) Since Congress has taken no action to effectuate the undertaking in the Geneva Convention of 1929 to prevent their -use by
private persons, it does not impair the rights of good faith pre-1905
users granted or recognized by the 1910 Act. P. 203.
2. Reading the- 1910 and 1938 Acts in pari materia, the good faith
use of the words and symbols by pre-1905 users is permissible; but
the Commission may require the addition of language which
removes any misleading inference that the products are in fact
sponsored, approved, or in any manner associated with the American National Red Cross. P. 202.
3. The fashioning of the order which should be 'entered is entrusted to the Commission, -which has wide latitude for judgment.
P. 203.
149 F. 2d 424, affirmed.

TRADE COMM'N v. A. P. W. PAPER CO.
193

195

Opinion of the Court.

The Federal Trade Commission ordered respondent to
cease and desist from using the words "Red Cross" to
describe its products and from displaying the Greek red
cross on them. 38 F. T. C. 1. On petition for review,
the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the Commission's
order and remanded the case to the Commission for the
formulation of a new order which, though not forbidding
the use of the words and symbol, might require statements
which would avoid any inference that the goods were sponsored or approved or in any way connected with the American National Red Cross. 149 F. 2d 424. This Court
granted certiorari. 326 U. S. 704. Affirmed, p. 204.
Solicitor General McGrath argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the brief were Assistant Attorney
General Berge, Charles H. Weston and W. T. Kelley.
Edward H. Green argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was E. H. Sykes.
Kenneth Perry and Hector M. Holmes filed a brief for
Johnson & Johnson, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent manufactures and sells toilet tissues and
paper towels in interstate commerce. On each package
or roll of one brand 'are a Greek red cross and the words
"Red Cross". Respondent registered the words "Red
Cross" and the Red Cross symbol as a trade mark; and it
features them in its advertisements and on its letterheads.
By § 4 of the American Red Cross Act of January 5,
1905, 33 Stat. 600, 36 U. S. C. §4, it was made unlawful
"for any person or corporation, other than the Red Cross

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

of America, not now lawfully entitled to use the sign of
the Red Cross, hereafter to use such sign or any insignia
colored in imitation thereof for the purposes of trade or
as an advertisement to induce the sale of any article whatsoever." That section was amended by the Act of June
23, 1910, 36 Stat. 604, 36 U. S. C. § 4. Sec. 4 of that Act
made unlawful the use of the Greek red cross on a white
ground or the words "Red Cross" for the purpose of trade
or as an advertisement "to induce the sale of any article"
or "for any business or charitable purpose" by any person
other than the American National Red Cross 1 or its duly
authorized employees and agents or the sanitary and hospital authorities of the army and navy. It contained,
however, a proviso which reads as follows: "That no person, corporation, or association that actually used or whose
assignor actually used the said emblem, sign, insignia, or
words for any lawful purpose prior to January fifth, nineteen hundred and five, shall be deemed forbidden by this
Act to continue the use thereof for the same purpose and
for the same class of goods."
Petitioner's use of the trade name and emblem antedate
January 5, 1905.2 But in 1942 the Federal Trade CommisI The Red Cross organization had its origin in a treaty drafted at

the Geneva Convention in 1864 and acceded to by the United States
in 1882. 22 Stat. 940. The American Association of the Red Cross
was incorporated in 1881 under the laws of the District of Columbia.
It was reincorporated in 1893 under the laws of the District of
Columbia as the American National Red Cross. On June 6, 1900,
it was incorporated under the same name by Act of Congress (31 Stat.
277) and was reincorporated January 5, 1905. 33 Stat. 599. From
the time of its first incorporation in 1881 down to the present, it has
used the words "Red Cross" as a part of its name and has also used
the emblem adopted by the 1864 Geneva Convention, the Greek red
cross on a white ground.
2 Toilet tissues were marketed by petitioner under that trade name
and emblem since 1897 and paper towels since 1933. The trade-mark

TRADE COMM'N v. A. P. W. PAPER CO.
193

197

Opinion of the Court.

sion charged petitioner with a violation of § 5 (a) of the
Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 719, as' amended
52 Stat. 111, 15 U. S. C. § 45, which makes unlawful "unfair methods of competition in commerce, and unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in commerce."
A hearing was had, findings were made and a cease and
desist order was issued. The Commission found that "the
use by respondent of the words 'Red Cross' and of the
mark of the Greek red cross to designate its products has
the tendency and capacity to mislead and deceive a substantial portion of the purchasing public, in that such
name and mark represent or imply that respondent's products are sponsored, endorsed, or approved by the Red
Cross; that the Red Cross is financially interested in the
sale of the products, that the products are used by the Red
Cross; that the products are manufactured in accordance
with sanitary standards set up by the Red Cross; or that
there is some other connection between the products and
the Red Cross. Not only are these, in the opinion of the
Commission, reasonable inferences to be drawn from the
use of the name and mark, but the record affirmatively
shows that the name and mark are in fact so understood
and interpreted by many members of the public." The
Commission also found that statements on respondent's
products that they are made by respondent and that
the name and mark are registered "do not serve to correct the erroneous and misleading impression created
through the use of the trade name and mark." The Commission entered an order which, among other things,
forbade respondent from using the words "Red Cross" to
was first registered in the Patent Office in 1911 and was extended to
cover paper towels in 1934.
The Commission made no finding as to whether the paper towels
were of tlhe same class of goods as the toilet tissue within the meaning
of the proviso to § 4 of the 1910 Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

describe its products and from displaying the Greek red
cross on them.' 38 F. T. C. 1.
On a petition for review, the Circuit Court of Appeals,
by a divided vote, reversed the order of the Commission.
149 F. 2d 424. It held that the order went beyond permissible limits in forbidding any use of the words and
the mark. It remanded the case to the Commission for
the formulation of a new order which, though not forbidding the use of the words and the symbol, might require
statements which would avoid any inference that the goods
were sponsored or approved or in any way connected with
the American National Red Cross. The case is here on
petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted because
of the importance of the problem in the administration
of the Federal Trade Commission Act.
There is no suggestion that the pre-1905 use of the
words and the symbol was an unlawful one within the
meaning of either the 1905 or the 1910 Act. Nor has the
Commission found that respondent has engaged in any
fraudulent activity or made any untruthful statements in
connection with its use of the words and the symbol.
Therefore this is not a case where the words and symbols
8 It ordered respondent to cease and desist from
"1. Using the words 'Red Cross' or any abbreviation or simulation thereof, either alone or in combination or connection with any
other word or words, to designate, describe, or refer to respondent's products.
"2. Using or displaying on respondent's products or in any
advertisement of such products the mark of a Greek red cross, or
any other mark, emblem, sign, or insignia simulating or resembling
such cross.
"3. Representing in any manner or by any means, directly or
by implication, that respondent's products are sponsored, endorsed, or approved by the Red Cross; that the Red Cross is
financially interested in the sale of said products; that said products are used by the Red Cross; that said products are manufactured in accordance with sanitary standards set up by the Red
Cross; or that there is any other connection between said products and the Red Cross."

TRADE COMM'N v. A. P. W. PAPER CO.
195

199

Opinion of the Court.

were either adopted or used pursuant to a fraudulent
design, aimed at creating the impression that these products were sponsored by or otherwise carried the imprimatur of the Red Cross. Hence, here, as in Jacob Siegel Co.
v. Federal Trade Commission, 327 U. S. 608, we have no
problem involving the power of the Commission to uproot
a fraudulent scheme in its entirety. But it is argued that
however lawful the earlier use may have been, it cannot
survive a finding by the Commission that the use constitutes an unfair or deceptive act or practice in commerce.
It is pointed out that the 1938 amendment to the Federak
Trade Commission Act gave the Commission power to
protect consumers, as well as,competitors, against unfair
or deceptive practices.4 It is said that there are no exceptions to that broad power and none should be implied from
the Red Cross Act of 1910. The latter Act, it is said,
confers no general rights but only a limited immunity aid
should not be construed as exempting pre-1905 users of
the name and emblem from regulatory legislation of general application which Congress may from time to time
enact for the protection of the public. It is also argued
that by the Geneva Convention of 1929, which was ratified
4 In Federal Trade Commission v. Raladam Co., 283 U. S. 643,
647-648, the Court had ruled that, "The paramount aim of the act is
the protection of the public from the evils likely to result from the
destruction of competition or the restriction of it in a substantial
degree, and this presupposes the existence of some substantial competition to be affected, since the public is not concerned in the maintenance
of competition which itself is without real substance." The 1938
amendment to § 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act was designed
to make "the consumer, who may be injured by an unfair trade practice, of equal concern, before the law, with the merchant or manufacturer injured by the unfair methods of a dishonest competitor."
H. Rep. No. 1613, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 3. And see S. Rep. No. 221,
75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 3.

.200

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

by the United States I in 1932, the United States agreed
to prohibit the use by private persons of the name and the
symbol and that the Red Cross Act and the Federal Trade
Commission Act should not be construed in favor of conduct which this nation is under international obligation
to terminate.
We agree, however, with the Circuit Court of Appeals.
It is clear that the 1910 Act granted, or at least recognized,
the right of pre-1905 users to continue the use of the words
and the symbol.' The House Report stated that the Act
as amended "will permit the use of the symbol by . . .
such persons, corporations, and associations as actually
used the emblem prior to January 5, 1905, for the purposes
547 Stat. 2074. Article 28 provides in part (47 Stat. 2092):

"The Governments of the High Contracting Parties whose legislation may not now be adequate shall take or shall recommend
to their legislatures such measures as may be necessary at all
times:
"a) to prevent the use by private persons or by societies other
than those upon which this Convention confers the right thereto,
of the emblem or of the name of the Red Cross or Geneva Cross,
as well as any other sign or designation constituting an imitation
thereof, whether for commercial or other purposes;
"The prohibition mentioned in subparagraph a) of the use of
signs or designations constituting an imitation of the emblem or
designation of the Red Cross or Geneva Cross. .

.

.shall take

effect from the time set in each act of legislation aid at the latest
five years after this Convention goes into effect. After such going
into effect it shall be unlawful to take out a trademark or commercial label contrary to such prohibitions."
The manager of the bill which became the 1905 Act stated on the
floor of the House during the debate that it would not "interfere with
any lawful right now existing." 39 Cong. Rec. 406.
Judge Learned Hand, speaking of the 1910 Act in Loonen v. Deitsch,
189 F. 487, 492, stated: "Whatever may have been the policy before,
Congress has now definitely declared in the proviso of the latter act
that it would permit such marks if they antedated 1905. Congress
had power so to legalize the use of it; the question of public policy
was for it and for it alone, and it isnow finally closed."

TRADE COMM'N v. A. P. W. PAPER CO.
193

201

Opinion of the Court.

for wnich they were so entitled to use it and for the same
class of goods. The section, as so amended, grants to the
American National Red Cross the fullest protection it is
possible to afford it by congressional enactment and at the
same time amply protects the concerns possessing vested

property rights in the emblem." H. Rep.-No. 1256, 61st
Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 2-3. It is apparent from the terms of
the 1905 Act and the 1910 Act'

that Congress was con-

cerned not only with protecting the Red Cross against pretenders but also with protecting the public against the

false impression that goods purchased were the products
of the Red Cross or were sponsored by it. Congress, however, did not go the full distance. It preserved the right
of earlier, good faith users to continue the use of the words

and the symbol. It may have concluded thAt the mark
which had been acquired was a valuable business asset
7 As we have already noted, the 1905 Act made it unlawful "for
any person or corporation, other than the Red Cross of America, not
now lawfully entitled to use the sign of the Red Cross, hereafter to
use such sign orany insignia colored in imitation thereof for the purposes of trade or as an advertisement to induce the sale of any article
whatsoever."
And § 4 of the 1910 Act, which we have already summarized, provided:
"It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or association
other than the American National Red Cross and its duly authorized employees and agents and the army and navy sanitary and
hospital authorities of the United States for the purpose of trade
or as an advertisement to induce the sale of any article whatsoever
or for any business or charitable purpose to use within the territory of the United States of America and-its exterior possessions
the emblem of the Greek Red Cross on a white ground, or any sign
or insignia made or colored in imitation thereof, or of the words
'Red Cross' or 'Geneva Cross' or any combination of these words:
Provided, however, That no person, corporation, or association
that actually used or whose assignor actually used the said
emblem, sign, insignia, or words for any lawful purpose prior
to January fifth, nineteen hundred and five, shall be deemed forbidden by this. Act to continue the use tbereof for the same
purpose and for the same class of goods."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

328 U. S.

which should not be destroyed. Or it may have thought
that the extent and manner of the use by the established
concerns were not likely to injure the public." But whatever the purpose, the fact remains that the good faith use
of the mark by the pre-1905 users was intended to be-preserved unimpaired.
We cannot lightly infer that this specific right was intended to be swept away under the 1938 amendment to
the Federal Trade Commission Act. Repeals by implication are not favored. Yet if the order of the Commission stands, the right granted or recognized by the 1910
Act becomes a nullity. For the use of the words and the
symbol by good faith pre-1905 users becomes per se unlawful. As the 1910 Act, like the Federal Trade Commission
Act, was in part directed towards protection of the public
against deceptive practices, we think the two Acts must be
read in pari materia. The problem is to reconcile the
two, if possible, and to give effect to each. We think that'
may be done by recognizing that while the good faith use
of the words and symbols by pre-1905 users is permissible, the Commission may require the addition of language which removes any misleading inference that the
8 Judge Learned Hand in Loonen v. Deitsch, supra, note 6, p. 489,
stated:
"Does the mark actually mean that the society is in any way
concerned with the manufacture of the goods? I think not. We
have become familiar with it in the past for many other uses
than that of the society, though happily such uses will now slowly
disappear. It had been used on hospital ambulances, upon medicaments, upon doctors' motor cars, upon barber shops, upon
laundries, and for military field service not connected with the
Red Cross Society. In short, until the legislation of 1905 (Act
Jan. 5, 1905, c. 23, 33 Stat. 599 [U. S. Comp. St. Supp. 1909, p.
1038]), it had been quite instinctively adopted for many uses
which were congruous with the chief objects of the society, but
which did not indicate that the society had anything to do with
them, or certainly with the frequency of the use ceased to do so.
Finally, Congress has clearly recognized that fact by permitting all
those who prior to 1905 had used the mark lawfully, to continue."

TRADE COMM'N v. A. P. W. PAPER CO.

203

Opinion of the Court.

products are in fact sponsored, approved, or in any manner associated with the American National Red Cross.
We need comment only briefly on the Geneva Convention of 1929, which Was ratified by the United States in
1932.' The undertaking "to prevent the use. by private
persons" of the words or symbol is a matter for the executive and legislative departments. The problem has been
before the Congress in recent years. 0 No action has yet
been taken. But we can find in that inaction no basis for
concluding that the rights of good faith, pre-1905 users
granted or recognized by the 1910 Act are today. in any
way impaire4. Indeed, the existence of that right was
recognized as giving rise to the need for additional legislation." That assumption can hardly be reconciled with the
conclasion that complete relief is already accorded under
the Federal Trade Commission Act.
We do not undertake to prescribe the order which the
Commission should enter. The fashioning of the remedy
9 See note 5, supra.
10

In the 77th Congress a bill to eliminate over a period of years the

exemption given to pre-1905 users was favorably reported by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House. H. Rep. 2387, 77th Cong.,
2d Sess. - This proposed legislation, was designed to discharge the
obligation of the United States under the Geneva Convention of 1929.
Id., pp. 1, 2, 4.
In the 78th Congress a bill passed the Senate with similar provisions. 90 Cong. Rec. 398, 401, 3656. It was reported favorably,
with amendments, by the. Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House.
H. Rep. No. 2054, 78th Cong., 2d Sess. This proposed legislation was
likewise designed to discharge the obligation of the United States
under the Geneva Convention of 1929. Id., pp. 4-6. And see 90 Cong.
Rec. 399.
11See H. Rep. No. 2387, supra, note 10, pp. 2, 3; H. Rep. No. 2054,
supra, note 10, pp. 4-6. In the latter Report it was, indeed, recognized
"that under existing law, there are legal uses of the symbol by commercial users." p. 4.

