OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Decree.

376 U. S.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA ET AL.
No. 8, Original.

Decided June 3, 1963.-Decree entered
March 9, 1964.

Decree carrying into effect this Court's opinion of June 3, 1963, 373
U. S. 546.
IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED THAT

I. For purposes of this decree:
(A) "Consumptive use" means diversions from the
stream less such return flow thereto as is available for
consumptive use in the United States or in satisfaction
of the Mexican Treaty obligation;
(B) "Mainstream" means the mainstream of the Colorado River downstream from Lee Ferry within the United
States, including the reservoirs thereon;
(C) Consumptive use from the mainstream within a
State shall include all consumptive uses of water of the
mainstream, including water drawn from the mainstream
by underground pumping, and including, but not limited
to, consumptive uses made by persons, by agencies of
that State, and by the United States for the benefit of
Indian reservations and other federal establishments
within the State;
(D) "Regulatory structures controlled by the United
States" refers to Hoover Dam, Davis Dam, Parker Dam,
Headgate Rock Dam, Palo Verde Dam, Imperial Dam,
Laguna Dam and all other dams and works on the
mainstream now or hereafter controlled or operated by
the United States which regulate the flow of water
in the mainstream or the diversion of water from the
mainstream;
(E) "Water controlled by the United States" refers to
the water in Lake Mead, Lake Mohave, Lake Havasu
and all other water in the mainstream below Lee Ferry
and within the United States;

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
Decree.

340

(F) "Tributaries" means all stream systems the waters
of which naturally drain into the mainstream of the
Colorado River below Lee Ferry;
(G) "Perfected right" means a water right acquired
in accordance with state law, which right has been exercised by the actual diversion of a specific quantity of
water that has been applied to a defined area of land or
to definite municipal or industrial works, and in addition
shall include water rights created by the reservation of
mainstream water for the use of federal establishments
under federal law whether or not the water has been
applied to beneficial use;
(H) "Present perfected rights" means perfected rights,
as here defined, existing as of June 25, 1929, the effective
date of the Boulder Canyon Project Act;
(I) "Domestic use" shall include the use of water for
household, stock, municipal, mining, milling, industrial,
and other like purposes, but shall exclude the generation
of electrical power;
(J) "Annual" and "Year," except where the context
may otherwise require, refer to calendar years;
(K) Consumptive use of water diverted in one State
for consumptive use in another State shall be treated as
if diverted in the State for whose benefit it is consumed.
II. The United States, its officers, attorneys, agents
and employees be and they are hereby severally enjoined:
(A) From operating regulatory structures controlled
by the United States and from releasing water controlled
by the United States other than in accordance with the
following order of priority:
(1) For river regulation, improvement of navigation,
and flood control;
(2) For irrigation and domestic uses, including the
satisfaction of present perfected rights; and
(3) For power;
Provided, however, that the United States may release
water in satisfaction of its obligations to the United
720-509 0-65-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Decree.

376 U. S.

States of Mexico under the Treaty dated February 3,
1944, without regard to the priorities specified in this
subdivision (A);
(B) From releasing water controlled by the United
States for irrigation and domestic use in the States of
Arizona, California and Nevada, except as follows:
(1) If sufficient mainstream water is available for
release, as determined by the Secretary of the Interior,
to satisfy 7,500,000 acre-feet of annual consumptive use
in the aforesaid three States, then of such 7,500,000 acrefeet of consumptive use, there shall be apportioned
2,800,000 acre-feet for use in Arizona, 4,400,000 acre-feet
for use in California, and 300,000 acre-feet for use in
Nevada;
(2) If sufficient mainstream water is available for
release, as determined by the Secretary of the Interior,
to satisfy annual consumptive use in the aforesaid States
in excess of 7,500,000 acre-feet, such excess consumptive
use is surplus, and 50% thereof shall be apportioned for
use in Arizona and 50% for use in California; provided,
however, that if the United States so contracts with
Nevada, then 46% of such surplus shall be apportioned
for use in Arizona and 4% for use in Nevada;
(3) If insufficient mainstream water is available for
release, as determined by the Secretary of the Interior,
to satisfy annual consumptive use of 7,500,000 acre-feet in
the aforesaid three States, then the Secretary of the
Interior, after providing for satisfaction of present perfected rights in the order of their priority dates without
regard to state lines and after consultation with the
parties to major delivery contracts and such representatives as the respective States may designate, may apportion the amount remaining available for consumptive use
in such manner as is consistent with the Boulder
Canyon Project Act as interpreted by the opinion of this
Court herein, and with other applicable federal statutes,
but in no event shall more than 4,400,000 acre-feet be

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
340

Decree.

apportioned for use in California including all present
perfected rights;
(4) Any mainstream water consumptively used within
a State shall be charged to its apportionment, regardless
of the purpose for which it was released;
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraphs (1)
through (4) of this subdivision (B), mainstream water
shall be released or delivered to water users (including but
not limited to public and municipal corporations and
other public agencies) in Arizona, California, and Nevada
only pursuant to valid contracts therefor made with such
users by the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to Section 5 of the Boulder Canyon Project Act or any other
applicable federal statute;
(6) If, in any one year, water apportioned for consumptive use in a State will not be consumed in that
State, whether for the reason that delivery contracts for
the full amount of the State's apportionment are not in
effect or that users cannot apply all of such water to
beneficial uses, or for any other reason, nothing in this
decree shall be construed as prohibiting the Secretary of
the Interior from releasing such apportioned but unused
water during such year for consumptive use in the other
States. No rights to the recurrent use of such water
shall accrue by reason of the use thereof;
(C) From applying the provisions of Article 7 (d) of
the Arizona water delivery contract dated February 9,
1944, and the provisions of Article 5 (a) of the Nevada
water delivery contract dated March 30, 1942, as
amended by the contract dated January 3, 1944, to reduce
the apportionment or delivery of mainstream water to
users within the States of Arizona and Nevada by reason
of any uses in such States from the tributaries flowing
therein;
(D) From releasing water controlled by the United
States for use in the States of Arizona, California, and
Nevada for the benefit of any federal establishment

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Decree.

376 U. S.

named in this subdivision (D) except in accordance with
the allocations made herein; provided, however, that such
release may be made notwithstanding the provisions of
Paragraph (5) of subdivision (B) of this Article; and
provided further that nothing herein shall prohibit the
United States from making future additional reservations
of mainstream water for use in any of such States as may
be authorized by law and subject to present perfected
rights and rights under contracts theretofore made with
water users in such State under Section 5 of the Boulder
Canyon Project Act or any other applicable federal
statute:
(1) The Chemehuevi Indian Reservation in annual
quantities not to exceed (i) 11,340 acre-feet of diversions
from the mainstream or (ii) the quantity of mainstream
water necessary to supply the consumptive use required
for irrigation of 1,900 acres and for the satisfaction of
related uses, whichever of (i) or (ii) is less, with a priority
date of February 2, 1907;
(2) The Cocopah Indian Reservation in annual quantities not to exceed (i) 2,744 acre-feet of diversions from
the mainstream or (ii). the quantity of mainstream water
necessary to supply the consumptive use required for
irrigation of 431 acres and for the satisfaction of related
uses, whichever of (i) or (ii) is less, with a priority date
of September 27, 1917;
(3) The Yuma Indian Reservation in annual quantities not to exceed (i) 51,616 acre-feet of diversions from
the mainstream or (ii) the quantity of mainstream water
necessary to supply the consumptive use required for
irrigation of 7,743 acres and for the satisfaction of related
uses, whichever of (i) or (ii) is less, with a priority date
of January 9, 1884;
(4) The Colorado River Indian Reservation in annual
quantities not to exceed (i) 717,148 acre-feet of diversions
from the mainstream or (ii) the quantity of mainstream

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
340

Decree.

water necessary to supply the consumptive use required
for irrigation of 107,588 acres and for the satisfaction of
related uses, whichever of (i) or (ii) is less, with priority
dates of March 3, 1865, for lands reserved by the Act of
March 3, 1865 (13 Stat. 541, 559); November 22, 1873,
for lands reserved by the Executive Order of said date;
November 16, 1874, for lands reserved by the Executive
Order of said date, except as later modified; May 15,
1876, for lands reserved by the Executive Order of said
date; November 22, 1915, for lands reserved by the
Executive Order of said date;
(5) The Fort Mohave Indian Reservation in annual
quantities not to exceed (i) 122,648 acre-feet of diversions
from the mainstream or (ii) the quantity of mainstream
water necessary to supply the consumptive use required
for irrigation of 18,974 acres and for the satisfaction of
related uses, whichever of (i) or (ii) is less, and, subject
to the next succeeding proviso, with priority dates of
September 19, 1890, for lands transferred by the Executive Order of said date; February 2, 1911, for lands reserved by the Executive Order of said date; provided,
however, that lands conveyed to the State of California
pursuant to the Swamp Land Act [9 Stat. 519 (1850)]
as well as any accretions thereto to which the owners
of such land may be entitled, and lands patented to the
Southern Pacific Railroad pursuant to the Act of July
27, 1866 (14 Stat. 292), shall not be included as irrigable
acreage within the Reservation and that the above specified diversion requirement shall be reduced by 6.4 acrefeet per acre of such land that is irrigable; provided that
the quantities fixed in this paragraph and paragraph (4)
shall be subject to appropriate adjustment by agreement
or decree of this Court in the event that the boundaries
of the respective reservations are finally determined;
(6) The Lake Mead National Recreation Area in
annual quantities reasonably necessary to fulfill the pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Decree.

376 U. S.

poses of the Recreation Area, with priority dates of
May 3, 1929, for lands reserved by the Executive Order
of said date (No. 5105), and April 25, 1930, for lands
reserved by the Executive Order of said date (No. 5339);
(7) The Havasu Lake National Wildlife Refuge in
annual quantities reasonably necessary to fulfill the purposes of the Refuge, not to exceed (i) 41,839 acre-feet of
water diverted from the mainstream or (ii) 37,339 acrefeet of consumptive use of mainstream water, whichever
of (i) or (ii) is less, with a priority date of January 22,
1941, for lands reserved by the Executive Order of said
date (No. 8647), and a priority date of February 11, 1949,
for land reserved by the Public Land Order of said date
(No. 559);
(8) The Imperial National Wildlife Refuge in annual
quantities reasonably necessary to fulfill the purposes of
the Refuge not to exceed (i) 28,000 acre-feet of water
diverted from the mainstream or (ii) 23,000 acre-feet of
consumptive use of mainstream water, whichever of (i)
or (ii) is less, with a priority date of February 14, 1941;
(9) Boulder City, Nevada, as authorized by the Act
of September 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1726, with a priority date
of May 15, 1931;
Provided, further, that consumptive uses from the
mainstream for the benefit of the above-named federal
establishments shall, except as necessary to satisfy present
perfected rights in the order of their priority dates without regard to state lines, be satisfied only out of water
available, as provided in subdivision (B) of this Article,
to each State wherein such uses occur and subject to, in
the case of each reservation, such rights as have been
created prior to the establishment of such reservation by
contracts executed under Section 5 of the Boulder Canyon
Project Act or any other applicable federal statute.
III. The States of Arizona, California and Nevada,
Palo Verde Irrigation District, Imperial Irrigation District, Coachella Valley County Water District, Metro-

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
340

Decree.

politan Water District of Southern California, City of
Los Angeles, City of San Diego, and County of San
Diego, and all other users of water from the mainstream
in said States, their officers, attorneys, agents and employees, be and they are hereby severally enjoined:
(A) From interfering with the management and operation, in conformity with Article II of this decree, of
regulatory structures controlled by the United States;
(B) From interfering with or purporting to authorize
the interference with releases and deliveries, in conformity with Article II of this decree, of water controlled
by the United States;
(C) From diverting or purporting to authorize the
diversion of water from the mainstream the diversion of
which has not been authorized by the United States for
use in the respective States; provided, however, that no
party named in this Article and no other user of water
in said States shall divert or purport to authorize the
diversion of water from the mainstream the diversion of
which has not been authorized by the United States for its
particular use;
(D) From consuming or purporting to authorize the
consumptive use of water from the mainstream in excess
of the quantities permitted under Article II of this decree.
IV. The State of New Mexico, its officers, attorneys,
agents and employees, be and they are after four years
from the date of this decree hereby severally enjoined:
(A) From diverting or permitting the diversion of
water from San Simon Creek, its tributaries and underground water sources for the irrigation of more than a
total of 2,900 acres during any one year, and from exceeding a total consumptive use of such water, for whatever
purpose, of 72,000 acre-feet during any period of ten consecutive years; and from exceeding a total consumptive
use of such water, for whatever purpose, of 8,220 acrefeet during any one year;

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Decree.

376 U. S.

(B) From diverting or permitting the diversion of
water from the San Francisco River, its tributaries and
underground water sources for the irrigation within each
of the following areas of more than the following number
of acres during any one year:
Luna A rea ......................................
Apache Creek-Aragon Area .......................
R eserve Area ...................................
Glenwood Area ..................................

225
316
725
1,003

and from exceeding a total consumptive use of such water
for whatever purpose, of 31,870 acre-feet during any
period of ten consecutive years; and from exceeding a
total consumptive use of such water, for whatever purpose, of 4,112 acre-feet during any one year;
(C) From diverting or permitting the diversion of
water from the Gila River, its tributaries (exclusive of
the San Francisco River and San Simon Creek and their
tributaries) and underground water sources for the irrigation within each of the following areas of more than
the following number of acres during any one year:
Upper Gila Area ................................
Cliff-Gila and Buckhorn-Duck Creek Area ..........
Red Rock Area .................................

287
5, 314
1,456

and from exceeding a total consumptive use of such water
(exclusive of uses in Virden Valley, New Mexico), for
whatever purpose, of 136,620 acre-feet during any period
of ten consecutive years; and from exceeding a total consumptive use of such water (exclusive of uses in Virden
Valley, New Mexico), for whatever purpose, of 15,895
acre-feet during any one year;
(D) From diverting or permitting the diversion of
water from the Gila River and its underground water
sources in the Virden Valley, New Mexico, except for use
on lands determined to have the right to the use of such
water by the decree entered by the United States District
Court for the District of Arizona on June 29, 1935, in

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
Decree.

United States v. Gila Valley Irrigation District et al.
(Globe Equity No. 59) (herein referred to as the Gila
Decree), and except pursuant to and in accordance with
the terms and provisions of the Gila Decree; provided,
however, that:
(1) This decree shall not enjoin the use of underground
water on any of the following lands:
Owner

Marvin Arnett and J. C.
O'Dell.

Subdivision and Legal
Description

Sec.

Twp. Rng.

Part Lot 3 .........
Part Lot 4 ....................
NWY4SW -------------------SW Y4SW Y4 ---------------------

Part Lot 1
Hyrum M. Pace, Ray Richardson, Harry Day and
N. 0. Pace, Est.
C. C. Martin --------------

NW4NW4 ------------------SWYNEh ------------------..........
SW NE
SEXNEh ------------------S. part SEhSW4SEY -------WAWMWY2NE4NEY4 --------

N W 4NEY --------------------SW part Lot I -----------------A. E. Jacobson ............
E. Central part: E!EMEA
W. LeRoss Jones ------------

Acreage
33. 84
52. 33
38. 36
39. 80
50.68
38.03
8.00
15. 00
7.00
0.93
0.51
1i. 01
11.58
0.70

NWYNWY.
SW part NEY4NW4

-----------

N. Central part: N
SEYNWW.

NMNWY

Conrad and James R. Don- NANANSEY ---------------aldson.
James D. Freestone ---------Part WMNWK4 --------------SEhNEY
N!SEhNWY;
Virgil W. Jones----------Darrell Brooks-----------Floyd Jones --------------L. M. Hatch ...........
Carl M. Donaldson .......
Mack Johnson ------------

NWW.
SEXSWX --------------------Part NMSEYNE4 ------------Part NWySW4NW4 ---------

SWXSWh -------------------Virden Townsite-_
SWX SE 4 ---------------------Part NWYNWYNEY ------------Part NEYNWYNE .

Part NMN

SNW4NEY ....

SEYSEh; SWYSEY4.........
NWY4NEY; NEhNEY4----NE SEYSE4............
Roy A. Johnson -----------Ivan and Antone Thygerson_ NE/SEhSE4 --------------John W . Bonine ------------SW4SE4SWY4 -----------_-Marion K. Mortenson ------ SW SW SE ..............
Chris Dotz ................

Total ...............

8.93
0.51
8.00
7.79
7.40
6. 15
4.00
1.70
4.40
3.90
3.40
2.80
0.30
0.10
2.66
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
380. 81

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Decree.

376 U. S.

or on lands or for other uses in the Virden Valley to which
such use may be transferred or substituted on retirement
from irrigation of any of said specifically described lands,
up to a maximum total consumptive use of such water of
838.2 acre-feet per annum, unless and until such uses are
adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be an
infringement or impairment of rights confirmed by the
Gila Decree; and
(2) This decree shall not prohibit domestic use of water
from the Gila River and its underground water sources
on lands with rights confirmed by the Gila Decree, or on
farmsteads located adjacent to said lands, or in the Virden
Townsite, up to a total consumptive use of 265 acre-feet
per annum in addition to the uses confirmed by the Gila
Decree, unless and until such use is adjudged by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be an infringement or impairment of rights confirmed by the Gila Decree;
(E) Provided, however, that nothing in this Article IV
shall be construed to affect rights as between individual
water users in the State of New Mexico; nor shall anything in this Article be construed to affect possible superior rights of the United States asserted on behalf of
National Forests, Parks, Memorials, Monuments and
lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management;
and provided further that in addition to the diversions
authorized herein the United States has the right to divert
water from the mainstream of the Gila and San Francisco Rivers in quantities reasonably necessary to fulfill
the purposes of the Gila National Forest with priority
dates as of the date of withdrawal for forest purposes of
each area of the forest within which the water is used;
(F) Provided, further, that no diversion from a stream
authorized in Article IV (A) through (D) may be transferred to any of the other streams, nor may any use for
irrigation purposes within any area on one of the streams
be transferred for use for irrigation purposes to any other
area on that stream.

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
340

Decree.

V. The United States shall prepare and maintain, or
provide for the preparation and maintenance of, and shall
make available, annually and at such shorter intervals
as the Secretary of the Interior shall deem necessary or
advisable, for inspection by interested persons at all
reasonable times and at a reasonable place or places,
complete, detailed and accurate records of:
(A) Releases of water through regulatory structures
controlled by the United States;
(B) Diversions of water from the mainstream, return
flow of such water to the stream as is available for consumptive use in the United States or in satisfaction of
the Mexican Treaty obligation, and consumptive use of
such water. These quantities shall be stated separately
as to each diverter from the mainstream, each point of
diversion, and each of the States of Arizona, California
and Nevada;
,(C) Releases of mainstream water pursuant to orders
therefor but not diverted by the party ordering the same,
and the quantity of such water delivered to Mexico in
satisfaction of the Mexican Treaty or diverted by others
in satisfaction of rights decreed herein. These quantities
shall be stated separately as to each diverter from the
mainstream, each point of diversion, and each of the
States of Arizona, California and Nevada;
(D) Deliveries to Mexico of water in satisfaction of
the obligations of Part III of the Treaty of February 3,
1944, and, separately stated, water passing to Mexico in
excess of treaty requirements;
(E) Diversions of water from the mainstream of the
Gila and San Francisco Rivers and the consumptive use
of such water, for the benefit of the Gila National Forest.
VI. Within two years from the date of this decree, the
States of Arizona, California, and Nevada shall furnish
to this Court and to the Secretary of the Interior a list
of the present perfected rights, with their claimed priority
dates, in waters of the mainstream within each State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1963.
Decree.

376 U. S.

respectively, in terms of consumptive use, except those
relating to federal establishments. Any named party to
this proceeding may present its claim of present perfected
rights or its opposition to the claims of others. The Secretary of the Interior shall supply similar information,
within a similar period of time, with respect to the claims
of the United States to present perfected rights within
each State. If the parties and the Secretary of the
Interior are unable at that time to agree on the present
perfected rights to the use of mainstream water in each
State, and their priority dates, any party may apply to
the Court for the determination of such rights by the
Court.
VII. The State of New Mexico shall, within four years
from the date of this decree, prepare and maintain, or
provide for the preparation and maintenance of, and shall
annually thereafter make available for inspection at all
reasonable times and at a reasonable place or places,
complete, detailed and accurate records of:
(A) The acreages of all lands in New Mexico irrigated each year from the Gila River, the San Francisco
River, San Simon Creek, and their tributaries and all of
their underground water sources, stated by legal description and component acreages and separately as to each of
the areas designated in Article IV of this decree and as
to each of the three streams;
(B) Annual diversions and consumptive uses of water
in New Mexico, from the Gila River, the San Francisco
River, San Simon Creek, and their tributaries and all
their underground water sources, stated separately as to
each of the three streams.
VIII. This decree shall not affect:
(A) The relative rights inter sese of water users within
any one of the States, except as otherwise specifically
provided herein;

ARIZONA v. CALIFORNIA.
Decree.

340

(B) The rights or priorities to water in any of the
Lower Basin tributaries of the Colorado River in the
States of Arizona, California, Nevada, New Mexico and
Utah except the Gila River System;
(C) The rights or priorities, except as specific provision is made herein, of any Indian Reservation, National
Forest, Park, Recreation Area, Monument or Memorial,
or other lands of the United States;
(D) Any issue of interpretation of the Colorado River
Compact.
IX. Any of the parties may apply at the foot of this
decree for its amendment or for further relief. The
Court retains jurisdiction of this suit for the purpose of
any order, direction, or modification of the decree, or any
supplementary decree, that may at any time be deemed
proper in relation to the subject matter in controversy.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

dissents.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE STEWART dissent

to the extent that the decree conflicts with the views
expressed in the dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE
HARLAN, 373 U. S. 546, 603.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

