DECEM1BER TERM, 1851.

173

Hogan et al. v. Ross.

of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court4
that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause, be, and
the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

SMITH HOGAN, ARTHUR S. HOGAN, AND REUBEN Y. REYNOLDS,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. AARONg Ross, wHO SUES FOR THE
USE OF ROBERT PATTERSON.
Where a declaration contained two counts, one of which set omt an injunction-bond
with the condition thereto annexed, and averred a breach, and the second count
was merely for the debt in the penalty; and the pleas were all applicable to the
first count, which was upon trial stricken out by the plaintiff, and the court gave
judgment upon the second count for the want of a plea, this judgment was proper,
and must be affirmed.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the Northern' District of Mississippi.
The question was one of pleading and arose in this way:
At June term, 1840, of the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Mississippi, Aaron Ross, a citizen
of Pennsylvania, recovered a judgment against George Wightman and Smith Hogan, for $3,177,05, with interest from the
11th day of December, 1839.
Ross issued an execution upon this judgment.
On the 30th of September, 1842, when this execution was in
the hands of the marshal, Smith Hogan obtained an injunction
prohibiting further proceedings under the execution. The signers
of the injunction-bond were Smith Hogan, Arthur S. Hogan,
and Reuben Y. Reynolds.
In November, 1843, in the Circuit Court of the United States,
the following entry was made upon tne docket.
SMITH HOGAN,

)

v.
401.
Dismissed by order of complainant's
AARON ROSS.
3
solicitors.
In Iay, 1845, Ross brought an action upon the injunctionbond, the penalty of which, being double the amount of the
judgment, was 6,354.10. The declaration set out the bond and
averred, as a breach of the condition, that Hogan had not prosecuted his writ of injunction to effect, but the samewas dissolved
and the bill of the said Smith, by said court, dismissed. To
15*

SUPREME

COURT.

Hogan et al. v. Ross.

thIh declaration, three pleas were filed in June, 1845, to the
second and third of which the plaintiff demurred, and afterwards the defendant demurred to the plaintiffs declaration.
All the demurrers were sustained; and the court gave leave to
the plaintiff to amend his declaration.
In December, 1846, the plaintiff filed his amended declaration. This was.the comme, "ment of the system bf pleading
which came before this court .or review.
The amended declaration consisted of two counts.
The first, after setting out in Itee verba the condition of the
injunction-bond, sets out the breach of 'he condition, specially,
in this, that the said Smith Hogan did not prosecute his said
writ of injunction to effect, &c., but afterwards, &c., dismissed
the same. It then avers that by means of the wrongful suing"
out of said injunction, plaintiff has sustained damage to the
amount of $4,000. It proceeds to aver, that since the dismissal
of the injunction, &c., neither of said obligors, nor any other
person, hath paid to plaintiff the damages, &c., nor any part of
the judgment enjoined by said writ of injunction.
The second count is upon the obligatory part of the bond
alone, without any reference to the condition, and the only
breach assigned is the general one, the non-payment of the
money mentioned in the bond.
The defendants put in the five following pleas.
1. And the said defendants, by leave of the court first had, by
attorney, come- and defend the wrong and injury, when, &e.,
and say actio non, because they say that they have prosecuted
their said injunction with effect, and this they pray, may be inquired of by the country, &c.; and the plaintiff likewise.
TorP & MILLER.
2. And for further plea in this behalf the said defendants say
actio non, &c., because they say that the said plaintiff was not
damnified or in any manner injtired by the wrongful suing out
of said injunction by the said Smith Hogan, and this they are
,ready to verify; wherefore they pray judgment, &c.
Replication and issue in short by consent.
ToPP & MILLER.
3. And for further plea in this behalf -,he said defendants say
actio non, because they say they have fully, well, and truly performed all and singular "the conditions in said bond specified,
and this they are Teady to verify; wherefore they pray judgment, &c.
Replication and issue in short by consent.ToiPP & MILLEZR.
4. And for further plea in this behalf ihe said defendants say
actio non, because they say they have fully, well, and truly per-

DECEM 'BER TERM, 1851.

175

Hogan et al. v. Ross.

formed all and singular the conditions in said bond specified, in
184 , at the district aforeday of
this, to wit, that on the
said, the said plaintiff sued out of the office of the clerk of said
District Court a vrit of fierifacias, founded on the judgment in
the bond and declaration mentioned, which on the day and year
aforesaid went into the"hands of the marshal of said district, to
be executed and returned according to law. And the said defendants aver that said marshal, by virtue of said execution,
did levy and make, of the property, goods, and chattels of saiddefendant, Smith Hogan, a large sum of money, to wit, the sum
of four thousand dollars, and this they are ready to verify;
wherefore they pray judgment, &c.
5. And for further plea in this behalf the said defendants say
actio von, because they say, that the judgment upon which the
execution issued, and to enjoin which the supposed injunctionbond upon which this suit is founded was executed, was fully
paid off, satisfied, and discharged, and before the issuance of the
execution enjoined, to wit, on the Ist day of June, A. D. 1842, at,
to wit, in the district aforesaid, and this they are ready to verify;
wherefore they pray judgment, &c. DAvIs & GooDwIN,
Attorneys for plaintiff.
Replication and issue.
Topp & MILLEI.

To the fourth plea there was the following special replication.
Replication to 4th plea.
UNITED

STATES Or AMERICA,

District Court, Northern District of

'ississippi.

A.&IoN Ross, use, &c.,)
V.

SMITH HOGAN et a

And said plaintiff, by aftorney, comes, and &d., and says, as
to the plea of said defendants by them fourthly above pleaded,
precludi von, &c., because, he says, that although the writ of
jierifacias,founded upon the judgment of the plaintiff -in said
plea mentioned, was levied upon two negroes as the property
of Smith Hogan, one of the defendants therein, yet said plaintiff says that the said two negroes were levied upon by the marshal of said northern district, at the same time, by virtue of sundry writs offierifacias,founded on judgments recovered in said
District Court against said defendant, Smith Hogan, to wit, one,

SPIREME COURT.
Hogan et al. v. Ross.

in favor of Stephen Davis, for $1,194.20 ; two in favor of James
A. Henden, one for $1,194.20, and the other for $3,582.60, and
one in favor of Fellows, Wordworth & Co., for the sum of
$2,172.46, numbered 23, 24, 25, and 26; and the said tdo
negroes being afterwards sold by said marshal, by virtue of said
several writs offierifacias,together with the writs offierifacias
founded upon the judgment of said plaintiff; yet said plaintiff
avers that the sum of money, to wit, the sum of eleven hundred
and seventy-eight dollars, raised by the sale of the said negroes
by virtue of the writs aforesaid, was by the order of said District Court, to wit, at the June term, 1844, thereof, applied ana
appropriated to the payment and satisfaction of said other writs
offierifacias above meritioned; and said plaintiff avers that nq
portion of said sum of money raised as aforesaid was appropriated or applied to the payment or satisfaction of said writ of
fierifacias founded upon the judgment of plaintiff in said plea
mentioned; wherefore said plaintiff says he has not had any
satisfaction of his said judgment, mentioned in said plea, and
this he is ready to verify, &c.; wherefore he prays judgment,
&c.

Top, &

MILLER,

Forplaintiff.
To the second and third pleas the plaihtiff demurred, as follows:
And the said plaintiff, as to the said pleas of the said defendants by them secondly and thirdly above pleaded in this behalf,
says, he is not bound by the law of the land to reply to the
same; and for causes of demurrer to said second plea the plaint4iff states and sets forth the following, to wit:
1st. Said second plea tenders an issue to an immaterial matter, and not directly put in issue by the declaration.
2d. The said second plea is nbt responsive to the averments
in the declaration mentioned', the plaintiff does not complain
-that said defendants failed'to prosecute their said injunction
,with eflbct; the gravamen in the declaration of the plaintiff is this,
that the defendant, Smith Hogan, wrongfally obtained and sued
out the injunction by which the plaifitiff was hindered and delayed in the collection of his said judgment.
3d. And the said plea is in other respects informal and insuffiEvANs, and ToPP & MILLER,
ent,.&c.
Forplaintiff.
And for cause of demurrer to said third plea, plaintiff shows
the following causes:
1st. Said plea only alleges general performance of the conditions of the bond, when special breaches are assigned in the declaration.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

177

Hogan et al. v. Ross.

2d. And is otherwise informal and insufficient.
EVANS, and TopI & MILLER,
Forplaintiff.
To the special replication to the fourth plea, the defendant
put in the following rejoinder.
And the said defendants, as to the replications of the said
plaintiff to the fourth and sixth pleas of the said defendants,
say that the said plaintiff ought not, by reason of any thing by
them in said replications alleged, to have or maintain their aforethat the
said action thereof against them, because they
other writs of fieri facias founded on judgments recorded in said
District Court against the defendant, as described and.set 'forth
in said replication, were younger in point of time than the judgment and execution founded thereon in the plea mentioned.
And the said defendants in fact say, that the said plaintiff, by
virtue of the execution founded upon the judgment against one
George WVightman and Smith I-Iogan, being the execution in
the declaration and fourth and sixth pleas mentioned, and which
judgment was rendered and recorded in said District Court, at
the June term thcreof, 1840, the said marshal did make and levy
of the proper goods and chattels of the defendant, Smith Hogan,
the said sum of four thousand dollars in said plea mentioned.
And the said defendants in fact further say, that the judgment
upon which the execution issued, as mentioned and set forth in
said replications to the fourth and sixth pleas of the said defendants, were not rendered and recorded in said court until the
times as hereinafter mentioned, to wit, the judgment in favor of
James A. Henden, at the June term, 1842, of said District Court;
the judgment in favor of Stephen Davis, at the June~term, 1842;
the judgmeqt in favor of Fellows, Wordworth & Co., at the
June term, 1842, of said District Court; and so the said defendants in fact say, that the said plaintiff hath obtained payment
and satisfaction of his said execution in the said replications
mentioned, and this the said defendants are ready to verify;
wherefore they pray judgment if the said plaintiff ought to have
or maintain his aforesaid- action thereof against these dbfendants.

DAVIs & GOODWIN,

Attorneys for defendants.
The plaintiff demurred to this rejoinder, and the defendants
joined in demurrer.
On the 11th of December, 1846, the demurrer to the rejoinder
was sustained, and the court ordered that the defendants have
leave to answer over, which they declined to do; and thereupon
the cause was continued by consent of parties till the next term
f the court.

178

SUPREME COURT.
Hogan et al. v. Ross.

In June, 1847, the cause was continued again.
In December, 1847, it came on for trial. A jury being impa.
nelled5 the plaintiff, by his attorney, read to the jury the plead.
ings, a certificate of the clerk of the Circuit Court, showing that
the bill in the case of Hogan v. Ross was dismissed by order of
complainant's solicitors, and there rested his case. The defendants then put in a demurrer to the evidence.
On the 10th of December, 1847, the following proceedings
took place.
Friday,December the 10th, 1847.
This day came the parties by their attorneys, and it appearing to the satisfaction of the court that defendants have filed no
plea to the second countin plaintiff's declaration, but have therein
wholly made default: It is therefore ccnsidered by the court
that plaintiff recover of defendants the sum of six thousand three
hundred and fifty-four dollars and ten cents debt, in the said
second count in the declaration mentioned, and also the costs in
this cause expended. And the plaintiff, by attorney, comes and
remits the sum of twenty-six hundred sixty-two dollars and
seventy-eight cents, being part of the judgment above mentioned.
Defendants' motion in arrest of judgment, filed and entered
December 10th, 1847, as follows, to witAARON Ross, use of, &e.,
v.
401.
SMITH HOGAN and others.)
The defendants move the court to arrest the judgment in this
case:
1. Because the court cannot pronounce a final judgment upon
the second count in the declaration.
2. For other causes.
DAvIs & GOODWIN.

-

Also, afterwards, to wit, on the 11th day of December, being
a day of the December term of said court last aforesaid, the
further proceedings were'had in the foregoing cause, to wit:
AARON Ross, use of Robert Patterson,
V.
SMITH HOGAN, ARTHUR S. HOGAN, AND.
REUBEN Y. REYNOLDS.
&aturday,December the 11th, 1847.
This day came the parties, by their attorneys, and then came
on to be heard defendants' demurrer to plaintiff's testimony; in
which said demurrer the plaintiff was ordered to join, but refused
to join, and thereupon dismissed the first count in his declara-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

179

Hogan et al. v. Ross.

tion set forth; whereupon the defendants demanded judgment
on the demurrer to the evidence for want of joinder theret,
which is refused by the court.
And also, afterwrds, to wit, on the day and at the term last
above stated, the farther proceedings were had in the aforesaid
cause, to wit:
AARON Ross, -,,ho sues for the use of
Robert Patterson,
401.
v.
SMITH HOGAN, ARTHUR S. HOGAN, AND
REUBEN Y. REYNOLDS.

Saturday, December the 1lth, 1847.
This day again came the parties, by their attorneys, and thereupon came on to be heard defendants' motion to arrest the judgment rendered in this cause on yesterday; and, after argument,
it is considered by the court that said motion be overruled.
A writ of error brought all these proceedings up to this court.
It was argued by .11r. Reuben Davis, for the plaintiffs in
error, and 1M1r. Coxe. for the defendant in error.
*M11r. Davis. This was an action of debt founded upon an injunction-bond. The declaration contained two counts. The
first count sets out the bond and condition, and assigns breaches;
the second is only upon the penal part of the band. The defendants below filed but one plea, which undertakes to answer
the whole declaration, and is an answer to the whole.
The case having been put to the jury, the plaintiff introduced
his proof and closed. Thereupon the defendants demurred to
the testimony, and tendered an issue to the court. The plaintiff
refused to join in the issue upon the demurrer, and the court
refused to compel him to do so, or allow the defendants to sign
judgment. Thus tood the case, when the plaintiff's counsel
asked the court for judgment final by default upon the second
pount, upon the ground that it had not been replied to. This
was allowed by the court; still leaving the demurrer to the-testimony undisposed of.
The court certainly erred in allowing judgment upon the
second count. The plea underttkes to answer the whole declaration; and if it does not do so, the objection should have been
by demurrer. The plaintiff could not sign judgment. 6 Johns.
Rep. 63; 18 Johns. Rep. 28: 20 Johns. Rep. 471; 1 Saunders,
Rep. 28, note 3; Chitty, 510.
I confess that when a plea undertakes to answer only a part
of the declaration, and afterwards aniwers more, judgment in

180

SUPREME COURT.
Hogan et al. v. Ross.

that case may be signed for so much as the plea in its commencement does not undertake to answer. 6 Johns. Rep. 63;
18 Johns. Rep. 28; 20 Johns. Rep. 471; 1 Saunders, Rep. 28,
note 3; 2 Chitty, 510.
It was a manifest error to allow plaintiff to take judgment,
even if the plea had not extendcd to the second count of the
declaration final. 4 Phillips, Evidence, 169; 1 Saunders, Pleading and Evidence, 319.
The only remaining question is, what the judgment of the
court shall be? There can be no question that the court will
feel it to be their duty to reverse the judgment below. This
being done, I insist that it will be the duty of the court to render -upon the demurrer such judgment as the court below should
have rendered in the case. There can be no necessity for reversing the judgment, and returning to the court below, as there
is nothing to be settled by that court.
Mr. Coxe, after stating the nature of the amended declaration,
proceeded to comment upon the rest of -he pleadings.
The defendants appear and plead several pleas.
1. Actio non, because they have prosecuted their injunction
with effect, and pray an issue to the country.
2. General non damnifcatus with a verification.
3. General performance of condition \xrith a verification.
4. Full performance of all and singular the conditions of said
bond, in this, viz., that plaintiff sued ovt a writ of fierifacias on
the judgment in the bond and declaration mentioned, which
went into the hands of the marshal; and that the said marshal
did, by virtue of the same, levy and make of the property of
said Smith Hogan $4,000; no time specified.
5. That prior to the issuing of the execution enjoined, viz.,
in June, 1842, the judgment upon which it issued was fully iaid.
It will be observed that oyer is not prayed of either the boild
or the condition, and consequently none was given. The five
pleas put in, informal and defective as they are in many respects,
while they profess to answer the entire declaration, are substantially only an answer to the first count, leaving the second
unnoticed. The pleadings on both sides, after the warr., are
unskilfully drawn; a replication is filed to the 4th plea, to which
there is a rejoinder and a demurrer to thatrejoinder, a demurrer
to the 2d and 3d pleas, issue joined on the 'first. The demurrer
to the rejoinder was argued and sustained; leave given to defendants to answer over, which was dechned; whereupon judgment on that was given for plaintiff.
The cause came on to be tried on the issue joined on the first
plea; after the plaintiff had produced his evidence, defendants

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

181

Hogan ot al. v. Ross.

demurred to the evidence, which demurrer was argued; and
afterwards the court. rendered judgment for plaintiff on the
second count in the declaration for want of a plea; a motion
was made in arrest of judgment, which was overruled. The
demurrer to the eviden6e came on to be heard, the plaintiff refusing to join therein and dismissing the first count in his decla,ration, and judgment was entered for plaintiff on the 2d count.
It cannot be doubted that there was much irregularity in the
conduct of the case; but it all originated in the bad pleading
of defendants, and it is apparent that the final judgment is in
accordance with the law and justice of the case.
The rule of pleading is clearly laid down by Mr. Sergeant
Williams, 1 Saund. 28, n. 3, and the authorities there cited.
Every plea must answer the whole declaration or count. If a
plea, as in this case, begin with an answer to the whole declaration, but in truth the matter pleaded is only an answer to part,
the whole plea is bad. In such case plaintiff may take judg"ment for the part unanswered as by nil dicit. 4 Rep. 62 a; 1
Chit. Rep. 132, note a; Id. 526, n.
It must be apparent on the vhole pleadings that defendants
had no defence to the action, and merely made defence for delay, and that plaintiff is entitled to judgment on the merits.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of debt instituted by the defendant in
error, who was plahtiff in the court below against the plaintiffs
in error, as the obligors in an injunction-bond. To the original declaration three pleas were filed at the Jane term of
the court, 1845 ; to the second and third of these pleas the
plaintiff demurred; and at the December term, 1845, the
defendants demurred to the plaintiff's declaration. The demurrers to the two pleas above mentioned were sustained by
the court, and afterwards, viz.: on the 10th December, 1846,
the court decided in favor of the demurrer to the declaration;
giving at the same time leave to amend. The plaintiff, under
this leave, filed hig amended declaration, presenting the case
-which was acted upon in the court below. The amended declaration consists of two counts; the first sets out the injunction.
bond with the condition thereto annexed, and alleges a breach
og that condition as the special ground of the action. Th3
second count is for the penalty of the bond, as having been forfeited by failure of payment. The defendants filed five pleas to
the amended declaration; upon the first of these pleas an issue
of fact was joined, and the four following 'ere by the court
adjudged bad upon demurrer. At the December term of the
court, 1847, the cause coming on for trial upon the issue joined
VOL. XII.

16

182

SUPREME COURT.
Hogan et al. v. Ross.

upon the first plea, after the testimony on the part of the plaintiff was closed, the defendants tendered a demurrer to the evidence offered by the plaintiff, but in this the plaintiff refused to
join, and dismissed or. struck out the first count in his declara.
tion ; whereupon the defendants moved the court for judgment
on the demurrer to evidence, for want of a joinder thereon, but
this motion the court refused to grant, and afterward entered
up the following judgment: "It appearing to the satisfaction
of the court that the defendants have filed no plea to the second
count in the plaintiff's declaration, but have therein made default; it is therefore considered by the court that the plaintiff
recover of the defendants the sum of six thousand three hundred
and fifty-four dollars and ten cents debt in the second count in
the declaration mentioned, and the costs in this cause expended.
If in our examination of the decision of the Circuit Court, it
were deemed necessary to pass upon the legal effect of the pleas
tendered by the defendants below, and overruled by the co-irt,
we could have no hesitation in pronouncing each of those pleas
bad upon demurrer. It is a settled rule in pleading, that wherever a plea in its commencement professes to respond to the
entire declaration or count, and is in substance and reality in
answer to part only ot such declaration or count, the plea is
bad, and the defect may be availed of, upon demurrer. If a
plea profess in the commencement to answer only part of the
declaration or count, and is in truth and substance a response
to such part alone, the plaintiff should not demur, because the
residue of the count or declaration is unanswered, but should
take judgment for that residue by nil dicit, as by demurring he
would operate a discontinuance of the entire cause. The
authorities upon these canons of pleading will be found collected from the earliest decisiolns by Sergeant Williams in note
3 to the case of the Earl of Manchester v. Vale, 1 Saunders,
28. The same rules are expressly affirmed in Tippet v. Mlay,
1 Bosanquet & Puller, 411 ; Everard v. Patterson, 6 Taunton,
625; Wilcox v. Newman, 1 Chitty's Reports, 132, and Hallet
v. Holmes, 18 Johnson, 28. In the case before us every ptea
tendered by the defendants embraces within its c mmencement
the entire cause of action, averring that the plainiff should not
have or maintain his action; yet each of them in its body and
substance, is limited to the condition of the injuncion-bond and
to some stipulation in that condition to whidh each plea specifically refers. The pleas demurred to therefore, could not but
be properly overruled; and with respect to that upon which
issue was joined, it being immaterial and inconclusive as to the
entire declaration, and defective in the same sense with the
others, had the issue been found. against the plaintiff, he would

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

183

.Coffee v. The Planters Bank of Tennessee.

still have been entitled to judgment non obstante veredicto. But
upon this record there, remains no subject for the application of
the rules of pleading above adver'ed to. The first count in the
declaration having been dismissed or striken out, every thing
which was pertinent strictly to that count, or which constituted
a defence to the case made thereby, falls with the count against
which such defence was interposed. The case then remains
solely on the second count in the declaration, and it cannot be
pretended that to this count, consisting purely of a money claim,
connected with no condition, any pleas have been interposed
upon this record to this count; therefore the case must be considered as one of plain default entirely unanswered by the defendant below, and as having been properly-so treated by the
Circuit Court. The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District'of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel; on
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs and,
damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

THONSAS

J.

COFFEE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
BANK OF TENNESSEE.

v.

THE PLANTERS

By the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act, 1 Stat. at Large, 78, no action can
be brought in the Federal courts upon a promissory note or other chose in action,
by an assignee, unless the action could have been maintained, if there had bden no
assignment. But an indorsee may sue his own immediate indorser.
Hence, where an action was brought by an indorsee upon checks which bad been in.
dorsed from one person to another in the same State, and some of the counts of the
declaration traced the title through these indorsements, no recovery could have
been had upon those counts.
But the declaration also contained the common money counts; and, upon the trial1
these were the only counts which remained, all the rest having been stricken out.
Tie suit against the maker, and also against all the indorsers, except one, had been
discontinued.
The statute of the State where the trial took place authorized a sut upon such an instrument as if it were a joint and several contract.
The dismissal of the suit against all the indorsers except one, and the striking out of
all the counts against him except the common money counts, freed the judgment
aainst him from all objection; and, therefore, when brought up for review upon a
writ of error, it must be affirmed.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.

