12

SUPREME COURT.
D'afrington et al. v. The Bank of Alabama.

,his debts; and an order to account for their hire and the profits
of their labor is suspended in the mean time. While these
things remain to be done, the decree is not final, and no appeal
from it would lie to this court, even if it had been the decree
of a Circuit Court exercising its ordinary equity jurisdiction.
Upon either ground, therefore, this .appeal cannot be maintained, and is, therefore, dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Western District of Virginia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby
dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

JOHN DARRINGTON, LORENZO JAMES, AND ROBERT D. JAMES,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE BRANCH OF THE BANK OF THE
STATE OF ALABAMA.
JOHN .DARRINGTON AND LORENZO
JAMES, V. SAME.
The bills of a banking corporation, which has corporate property, are not bills of
credit within the meaning of the Constitution, although the State which created the
bank is the only stockholder, and pledges its faith for the ultimate redemption of
the bills.
THESE: cases were brought up from the Supreme Court of
Alabama, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act. The facts and pleadings are stated in the
opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Campbell for the plaintiffs in error, and
and lr. Hopkins for the defendants.
Mr. Campbell contended that the transactions as described by
the pleas, fell within the prohibitory clause of the Constitution'
of the United States, "that no State Shall issue a bill of credit,"
and cited 4 Peters, 410; 11 Peters, 313'; 7 Alab. Rep. 18.
111r. Hopkins for the defendants iti error.
In the case of Briscoe v. The Bank of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, 11 Peters, 257, this court decided that the notes issued
by such a bank as the- one which is the defendant in error, were
not bills of credit within the prohibition of the Constitution of
the United States. In the case of Owen v. The Branch Bank

DECEM1BER TERM, 1851.

13

Darrington et al. v. The Bank of Alabama.

at Mobile, which is the defendant in error, the Supreme Court
of Alabama decided that the notes issued by this. bank were
not bills of credit. 3 Ala. Rep. 258.
The charter of this bank is a public statute of the State of
Alabama. 6 Ala. Rep. 289, 294. This court takes notice judicially of such statutes, as it does of the acts of Congress.
9 Peters, 607, 625, 626.
This bank had a large capital, and it is not denied in the
pleas, as it was in the case of the Kentucky bank, that the capital
was paid. Its notes were received in payment of taxes and
debts due to the State of Alabama. As a corporation the bank
-incurred responsibility, and gave credit to its paper. It was
liable for the notes and bills it issued, and its capitalwas bound,
like that of stock banks, for-the payment of its notes in gold
and silver. All its property, including its capital, was a fund
for the payment of the debts of the bank. The notes of the
bank were circulated upon its own -credit, and every holder of
the notes had the power to enforce payment, as the bank could
be sued. The notes were not issued by the State, but by the
bank in its corporate name, and the bank was not contolled by
the State, but by a president and directors appointed by the
legislature. Fbr the capital and powers of the bank, see 3 Ala.
Rep. 267. According to a previous judgment of this court, the
issuance and circulation of its notes as money by such a bank
is no violation of the Constitution of the United States. 11 Pet.
311, 315, 318, 320, 321, 322.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Alabama,
under the 25th section of the act of 1789.
An action was brought in the Circuit Court of Mobile county
against the plaintiffs in error, by the commissioners and trustees
of the banks of Alabama, under an act of the State, by serving
a notice on them in behalf of the Branch of the Bank of the
State of Alabama, at Mobile, as the makers of a promissory
note expressly made payable and negotiable at the said branch
bank, dated 2d of December, 1843, and in which they promised,
twelve months after date, to pay the said branch Bank by the
name and description of Henry B. Halcomb, cashier, or bearer,
the sum of four thousand dollars, with interest thereon from
date, for value received, which said promissory note is regularly
due and unpaid, and is the propeity of the bank.
The defendants below first pleaded nil debet, on which issue
was joined.
In their second plea, they aver, that the consideration of the
note sued for consisted of certain bills of credit issued by the
VOL. XIII.

2

14

SUPREME COURT.
Darrington et al. v. The Bank of Alabama.

State of Alabama, under the name and style of the Branch of
the Bank of the State of Alabama, at Mobile, by which the
State, under that name, promised to pay the bearer of the same
on demand. That these bills of credit were for such sums as
showed they were intended to be circulated as money. And
that the object of the State was to circulate them as money,
through the agency of the bank, for a profit.
The third plea avers that the note, on which suit is brought,
was made and delivered to the plaintiff as a trustee for the
State, and that the bills were received of the bank by the defendants, to put them Lto circulation as money for the profit
:f the State; that the bank was controlled by the State, and
that it was alone liable for the issues made by the bank in the
transaction stated.
The plaifitiff elowv demurred to the defendant's pleas except
the first one, whichdemurrer was sustained. And on a jury
being called to try the issue they found the amount of the note
and interest for the plaintiff, on which judgment was entered.This judgment Was taken by writ of error before the Supreme
Court of Alabama, which, affirmed the judgment. And this writ
of error is now prosecuted in this court to reverse the judgment
of affirmance.
It is argued that this case should be dismissed, as there was
no-special assignment of error in the Supreme Court of Alabama, as required by the law and the practice of that court.
The Supreme Court of Alabama exercised jurisdiction in the
case, and affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court. This
court cannot look behind that judgment, and dismiss the cause
here on the ground of a supposed violation of a rule of practice
in the State court Whether there was an assignment of error
or not in that court, can be of no importance, as we look to the
judgment only and its effects But it may be proper to say
there was an assignment of ei'ror in the Supreme Court of Alabama, "that the court sustained the demurrer to the pleas, and
gave judgment thereon in favor of the plaintiffs, whereas, by the
law of the land it should have been for tfie defendants."
The judgment on the demurrer in the Circuit Court was not
formally entered, but the record states, " and the plaintiffs moved
the court for judgment against the defendants, which was resisteciby the defendants, and the plaintiff demurred to all the defendants' pleas except the first one, which demurrer was by the
court sustained," &c.
The writ of error brought before the Supreme Court of Alabama the judgment of the Circuit Court as well on the demurrer as on the verdict of the jury, and the affirmance of the
judgment eatended to both. The pleas demurred to raised the
question whether the bills of the hank were bills of credit.

DECEMBER

TERM,

1851.

15

Darrington et al. v. State Bank of Alabama.

Under certain restrictions, the Constitution of Alabama authorized the General Assembly to establish a State bank, with
such number of branches as they should from time to time deem
expedient.
In 1823 the State Bank was established on the funds of the
State, then in the treasury, and a loan obtained by an issue of
State bonds. The preamble to the charter states, "whereas it
is deemed highly important to provide for the safe and profitable
investment of such public funds as may now or hereafter be in
possession of the State, and to secure to the community the
benefits, as far as may be, of an extended and undepreciating
currency; Be it enacted," &c.
In 1832, the bank at Mobile was established with a capital
stock of two millions of dollars, procured from the sale of bonds
of the State, created for that purpose.
By the charter a president and fourteen directors were to be
annually elected by the legislature, who were r-quired to make
a report to each session of the legislature. Th-r corporation was
authorized to issue notes of a denomination not less than one
dollar, to discount notes and deal in bills of exchange, not exceeding certain amounts. The ordinary powers of a banking
corporation were conferred, with a prohibition againit owing
debts exceeding twice the amount of the capital; and the directors were made personally responsible for any excess of indebtment of the bank assented to by them. Until one half of
the capital stocJc was deposited in specie, in its vaults, the corporation was not authorized to commence operations. The
remedy for collecting debts was reciprocal for and against the
bank. And *thecredit of the State was pledged for the ultimate
redemption of the notes of the bank.
The State of Alabama was the only stockholder of the bank;
but it was placed under the control of directors elected by the
legislature, and one half of the capital, amounting to the sum
of one million of dollars, was in its vault for the redemption of
its bills. With the means possessed by the bank when it commenced business, is requifed only prudent management to
sustain its credit, and effectuate the objects for which it was
established.
The bills issued by the bank were made payable on presentatfibn to it, and they were signed by its president and cashier.
The bills issued being convertible into specie by the holder, were
current, and in all transactions were received and paid out, as
equal in value to specie..
It is impossible to say that bills thus issued come within the
definition of bills of credit. The agency constituted, not only
managed the bank, but were made personally liable under cer-"

16

SUPREME COURT.
Da'rrington et al. v. State Bank of Alabama.

tain circumstances. The directors, though elected by the legislature, performed their duties under the charter, and, like all
other directors of banks, derived their powers and incurred their
responsibilities from the law under which they acted.
It is not perceived that their action was not as free as those
of directors who are elected, by individual stockholders.
The promise to pay was made by the bank, and its credit
gave to its bills circulation: they were in no respect, therefore,
like a bill of credit. That must issue on the credit of the State.
The principles laid down by this court in the case of Briscoe v.
The Bank of the Cozmdnwealth of Kentucky, apply to this
case. 11 Pet. 331. In that case it is said, "to constitute a bill
of credit within the Constitution, it must be issued by a State,
on the faith of the State, and be designed to circulate as money.
It must be a paper which circulates on the credit of the State;
and is so received and used in the ordinary business of life.
"The individual or committee who issae the bill must have
the power to bind the State; they must act as agents, and of
course do not incur any personal responsibility, nor impart, as
individuals, any credit to the paper.
Did the pledge of the credit of the State in the charter of
the bank, ultimately to redeem the notes of the bank, make
them bills of credit?
The charter is a public law, and this court consider it as before them, the same as it was before the court of Alabama.
Upon the face of the bills there is no promise to pay, by the
State, but an express promise by thebank. In this there is an
important difference between the notes of the bank and bills of'
credit. Whatever agency has been employed to issue a bill of
credit, the State promises to pay the bill, or to receive it in payment of public dues. And when a particular fund was designated out of which the bill s: -uld be paid, it depended upon
the faith of the State, whether such fund should be so appropriated.
The bank had not bnly an ample fund for the redemption of
its paper, but a summary mode was provided by which the payment of its bills could be legally enforced. Arid the directors
were personally liable, if the issues of the bank exceeded twice
the amount of its capital paid in. And besides the notes and
bills of exchange taken on its discounts, enlarged the means of
the bank, and increased the security of th3 billholders.
The charter of the bank gave to it all the means of credit
with the public that banks usually have or could desire. That
some reliance may have been placed on the guaranty, b'f the
Vventual payment of the notes of the bank by the State may
be admitted. But this was a liability altogether different from

DECEMBER

TERM,

1851.

Darrington et al. v. State Baik of Alabama.

that of a State on a bill of credit. It was remote and contingent.
And it could have been nothing more than a formal responsibility, if the bank had been properly conducted. No one received a bill of this bank with the expectation of its being paid
by the State.
But it is said the State employe'd the bank as an agency,
through which its bills should be circulated, for the profit of the
State.
The State, as a stockholder, received a profit, if any profit
was realized through the operations of the bank. But this is
the condition of individual stockholders in all banks. And as
well might it be said that the individual stockholders of a bank
issue its notes, as that the State of Alabama issued the notes of
the branch bank at Mobile.
A bank in either case acts under its corporate powers, and the
directors derive their powers and incur, their responsibilities under the law which governs them. The directors of the Mobile
bank, in the discharge of their duties, it would seem, were as
independent as the directors-of other bhnks.
A bill of credit emanates from the sovereignty of the State.
It rests for its currency on the faith of the State pledged by a
public law. The State cannot be sued ordinarily on such bill,
nor its payment exacted against its will. There is no fund or
property which the holder of the bill can reach by judicial process. Such an instrument is altogether different, in form and in
substance, from the notes issued by the branch bank at Mobile.
The fact that the State of Alabama may be sued by one of its
citizens does not alter the cdse. Such law may be repealed at
pleasure, and if judgment could be obtained, the payment of it
could not be enforced.
The State, as a stockholder, held its property as a corporation
or individual could hold it, in the Mobile bank. The specie in
its vaults, notes taken on discounts, and every description of
property, managed by the directors of the bank, were subject to
judicial process by its creditors. And in such a procedure the
State, in its sovereign capacity, could not interfere. Its powers
would be no greater than the powers of individual stockholders
of a bank, under similar circumstances.
The affirmance of the judgment of the Circuit Court which
sustained the demurrer to the pleas by the Supreme Court of
Alabama was right, and its judgment is therefore affirmed.
Mr. Justice GRLIER dissented.

18

SUPREME COURT.
Ballance v. Forsyth et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of six per centum
per annum.

CHARLES BALLANCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ROBERT
SYTH, LUCIEN iDUNIAIN, AND ANTILONY R. Bovis.

FOR-

On the 15th of May, 1820, Congress passed an act (3 Stat. at Large, 605J) for the
benefit of the inhabitants of tie village of Peoria, by which every person claiming
a lot in the village, was to give notice to the register of the laud-office, whose report was to be laid before Congress.
On the 3d of Warch, 1823, Congress passed another act, (3 Stat. at Large, 786,)
granting to each of the French and Canadian inhabitants, and other settlers according to the report, the lot upon which they had setled; and directed the surveyor of the public lands to'make a plat-of the lots, for which patents were to bo
issued to the claimants.
This survey and plat were not made until April and Mlay, 1837.
In November, 1837, a person who was not a sattler, purchased at the land-office at
private entry, the fractional quarter of land which included some of the above lots,
and soon afterwards obtained a patent. Both the certificate and patent-resbrved
the rights of the claimant under the acts of Congress above mentioned.
In'1845 and 1847, these claimants obtained patents.
They were entitled to recover in ejectment from the persons who held under the pri.
vate entry and patent.
The title of the plaintiffs was not divested by a tax sal- in 1843. The whole fractional quarter section was taxed and one acre off of the east side sold. This sale
was irregular.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Illinois.
It was an ejectment brought by Forsyth, Dumain, and Bovis,
to recover two lots of ground, viz., Nos. 47 and 65, ini he town
of Peoria. .The bills of exceptions extended over thirty-sevenpageg of the printei1 record, and included deeds and depositions
.nd proceedings under a tax sale, &c. &c. It is, therefore, impossible to insert them. The following is a summary notice of
the evidence .offered on the trial by plaintif1s and defendant.
Plaintiff's Evidence.
1. The act of Congress passed on the 16th of May, 1820,
(3 Stat at Large, 605.) It directed that every person whc

