DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Saltmarsh v. Tuthill.

why the indorser of this paper should be held responsible to his
indorsee, that can prevail in cases where the paper indorsed is
in the ordinary forni of a promissory note; and as such note,
the State courts generally, have treated certificates of deposit
payable to order; and the principles adopted by the- State courts
in coming to this conclusion, are fully sustained by the writers
of treatises on bills and notes. Being of opinion that the Circuit Court properly held the paper indorsed, negotiable, it is
ordered that the judgment be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript-of the
record from the Circuit Court of ilie United States for the District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. - On coneideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed with costs and damages, at the rate
of six per centum per annum.

ALANSON SALTMA SH, PLAINTIFF iN
TUTHILL.

ERROR

V. JAIMES W.

In a suit by the indorsee against the indorser of a bill, where the defcnce was nsur,
* the drawer and drawee were incompetent witnesses, when offeredt'io prove certain
facts, which, when taken in conjunction with certain other facts, to be proved by
other witnesses, would invalidate the instrument.

Being incompetent witnesses to establish tl e whole defence, they are also incompotent to establish a part.

Tuis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the Middle District of Alabama.
The only question was one of evidence, which is fully explained in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 1Zi1r. X A. Campbell and .Mr.Seward, for the
plaintiff in error, and 11r. -Pryor,for the. defendant in error.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Hill drew a thirty days' bill, dated at Mobile, on William Bower
& Co.,-for four thousand dollars, payable to Coleman. It was
indorsed by Coleman to Saltmarshand by him to James W.
Tuthill, who sued Saltmarsh. The parties went to trial on the
general issue, and the defence relied on was usury. By the laws
VOL.

XIII.

20

SUPREME COURT.

280

Tyler et ux. v. Black.

of Alabama, a party to any security for the payment of mbney,
who takes more than after the rate of eight per cent. per annum
for the money advanced, is prohibited fror recovering any interest, and can have judgment only for the original sum loaned.
And this abatement, was the matter in controversy. To prove
the usury, Hill, the drawer, and William Bower, one of the
drawees, were introduced on behalf of the defendant; and objected to by the plaintiff as incompetent, on the ground that a
party to negotiable paper who, by the sanction of his name, gave
It credit and currency, could not afterwards, upon his own testimony, invalidate the instrument, by .showiag that the consideration on which it was executed was illegal. The witnesses
were rejected.
Both Iill and Bower were offered to prove facts which, when
taken in connection with additional facts, that might be proved
by others, would invalidate the instrument in part, by abating
the interest. The proof was offered, and only material to es ablish the defence of usury, this being the sole defence. It mL st
be admitted, that if the party to the bill had been introduced to
establish the whole defence, then he was incompetent; and to,
hold, that he could prove a defence in part, -ithout which piece
of evidence no successful defence could be made, would be a
mere evasion of the rule, which excludes such witness from giving evidence to impeach the consideration.
No other question is presented to us, nor does any other exist
in the record, worthy of notice. It is therefo-e ordered, that the
judgment of the Circuit Court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record,
from the District Court of the United States for the Mriddle
District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgrtent of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs and damages, at
'he rate of six per centim per annum.

CYRIL

C. TYLER,

AND-HIs WIFE, SARAH

P.

TYLER, APPELLANTS,

v. GEoRGe N. BLACK.
Where a persou desired to purease land from a party who was ignorant that he had
any title to it or where the land waa situated, and the purchaser made fradudlut

