DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Fowler v.

373

Hart.

as gTeat as those of plaintiff; and yet neither court nor jury can
compensate him, if the verdict and judgment be in his favor, or
amerce the plaintiff profalso clam ore beyond tax costs. Where
such a rule of law exists allowing the jury to find costs de incremnento in the shape of counsel-fees, or that equally indefinite and
unknown quantity denominated (in the plaintiff's prayer for instruction) "&c.," they should be permitted to do the same for
the defendant where be succeeds in his defence, otherwise the
parties are not suffered to contend in an equal field. Besides,
in actions of debt, covenant, and assumpsit, where the plaintiff
always recovers his actual damages, he can recover but legal
costs as compensation for his expenditure in the suit, and as
punishment of defendant for his unjust detention of the debt;
and it is a moral offence of no higher order, to refuse to pay the
price of a patent or the damages for a trespass, which is not
wilful or malicious, than to refuse the payment of a just debt.
There is no reason, therefore, why the law should give the plaintiff such an advantage over the defendant ihone case, and refuse
it in the other. See Barnard v. Poor, 21 Pickering, 382; and
Lncoln v. the Saratoga Railroad, 29 Wendell, 435.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the instruction given by
the court in answer to the prayer of the plaintiff, was correct.
The instruction to the jury, also, was clearly proper as respected the measure of the damages, and that the jury had nothing
to do with the question whether their verdict would carry costs.
The judgment is therefore affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideratiou
-whereof; it is now here ordered and adjudged by tnis court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
-same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, for the defendants in error.

JosEPH FOWLER, JUNIOR, APPELLANT, V. NATHAN HART.

Real property, inLouisiana, was bound by a judicial mortgage.
The owners of the property then took the benefit of the Bankrupt Act of the United
States.

A ereditor of the bankrupt then filed a petition against the assignee, alleging that he
-tad a mortgage-upon the same property, pror in date to the judicial mortgage, but
that, by some error, other property had been naimnd, and praying to have the error
correcttd. Of this proceeding the judgment creditor had no notice.
VOL. XIII.

32

374

SUPREME COURT.
:Fowler v. Hart.

The court being satisfied of the error, ordered the morgage to be reformed, and thus
gave the judgment creditor the second lien instead of the first; and then decreed
that the property should be sold free of all incumbrances. Of this proceeding, and
also of the distribution of the proceeds of sale, the judgment creditor had notice,
but omitted to protect his rights.
In consequence of this neglect, he cannot afterwards assert his claim against a purchaser, who has bought the property as being free from all incumbrances.

THIS was an appeal.from the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of -the court.
It was argued by Mr. Bradley, for the appellant, no counsel
appearing for the appellee.
Mr. Bradley thus stated his case and points.
Daniel T. Walden, as indorser of two notes of William
Christy, was indebted to Fowler, the complainant, and suit was
brought by him upon these two notes, and judgment recovered,
as above stated.
At that time, Daniel T. Walden held and owned the premises
described in the petition of Fowler, and also at the time when
the third judgment was converted into c. mortgage. Nor was
there then any legal mortgage, nor had Fowler any notice of any
equitable mortgage on that property. Just prior to that time,
'Walden, being indebted to the defendant, Hart, had given him
a special mortgage, describing with- particularity certain other
property, not embracing or touching any part of the premises
now claimed by Fowler. In this condition of things, Walden
was declared bankrupt. Hart then filed his petition in the Bankrupt Court, setting up, as against the assignee and Walden, that
there was a mistake in the description of the property intended
to be conveyed by Walden's mortgage to him, and claiming
that the said mortgage was intended to convey the premises
now claimed by Fowler.
No procesq was served upon Fowler, or upon the other creditors of Walden. The Bankrupt Court, however, proceeded'
to take the proofs and adjudicate, and in its judgment affirmed
the pretensions of Hart, ordered the mistake to be corrected,
set up his special mortgage on these particular premises, and
ordered them to be sold to satisfy that special mortgage, and
the surplus, if any, to be brought into the general fund. The
sale was made in execution of that order, and at that sale
Hart became the purchaser, for a sum less than the amount of
his mortgage, received a deed, went intc possession, and has
ever since been in possession, claiming tmder that proceeding
and sale.
The Circuit Court decided, on this state of facts' that the law

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

875

Fowler v. Hart.

and the evidence are in favor of the defendant; ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that there be judgment in favor of the
defendant, Hart, and that the cause be dismissed at complainant's costs. And Fowler appealed.
In the case of Houston et al. v. The City Bank of New Or.
leans, 6 How. 505, 506, this court distinctly affirmed the power
of the District Court, in bankruptcy, to convene the mortgage
creditors, sell the mortgaged property, pay the proceeds to the
mortgagees, according to their respective priorities, and order the
cancellation of the mortgages. No such order has been made
in this case.
The questions arising in this case, and not hitherto decided
by this court, are,1st. The powers of the District Court to exercise, in a summary proceeding, a jurisdiction heretofore limited to'courts of
equity, to correct mistakes in deeds, and reform them according
to the intent of the parties; and,
2d. To correct a mistake in a deed, as between third parties,
creditors, or purchasers, without notice.
3d. To make such correction, without causing such third
parties to be convened and made parties to the suit.
First.
I. This court has said, in Ex parte Christy, 3 How. 312, that
the District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, is clothed with the
most ample powers and jurisdiction "over the rights, interests,
and estate of the bankrupt, and over the conflicting claims of
creditors; and,
II. Page 317: The District Court has a concurrent jurisdiction, to the same extent and with the same powers as the Circuit Court, over liens, judgments, and securities.
IIL But it is submitted, that this jurisdiction must be over
liens and securities already created, and not over such a; are to
be created by the superior power of a court of equity.
IV. A court of law of general jurisdiction has, unquestionably, jurisdiction over the same subjects, to a certain extent;
but it has not, and never has been supposed to have, that
creative .power which has been hitherto confided to courts of
equity alone, to compel men to reform their deeds and contracts
according to the intent of the parties.
V. The 8th section of the Bankrupt Act gives to the Circuit
Court cQncurent jurisdiction with the District Court, in bankruptcy; and it may well have been designed for such cases as
this, and to prevent that injustice, danger of which might well
be apprehended from the exercise of the summary powers given
to the District Court in bankruptcy.

876

SUPREME COURT.
Fowler v. Hart.

VI. It is not essential to the exercise of the summary jurisdiction granted, and intended to be conferred, inasmuch as, by
this 8th section, provision is made for the means which may
be needed to effect a full settlement of the estate of the bankrupt.I
VII. Inasmuch, then, as the power is not given in terms in
the Bankrupt Act, and -is not essential as a means to accomplish the end sought by that act, it is submitted that it does not
exist, and that the court in bankruptcy had no power to correct
a mistake, if any such existed, in the description of the property
claimed by the defendant, Hart.
Second.
I. The recording of the judgment created a mortgage upon
the real property of Walden, and that mortgage had priority,
according to its date.
IL It was a lien such as was recognized by the law of Louisiana, and protected by. the Bankrupt Act. Waller v. Best, 3
How. 111; Peck. v.Jenness, 7 Id. 620, 621. " It is clear, therefore, that, whatever is a valid lien or security upon property,
real or personal, by the laws of any State, is exempted by the
express language of the act."
III. The mortgage creditor takes as a purchaser, and, taking
as a purchaser, his title can only be affected by notice. It is not
pretended there was, prior to the mortgage of Fowler, any
notice in this case of the mistake, if any, in the description of
the property in Hart's mortgage.
IV. A court of equity would have had no power to order the
correction of the mistake, as against hiin, a vulto fortiori, the
court in bankruptcy had not .power to do so, and to direct the
cancellation of his mortgage.
Thrd.
I. Nor is he estopped iftany manner by the decree in bankruptcy. Such decree could only be operative upon parties and,
privies. The record shows that the only parties to the proceeding to correct the alleged mistake were Hart, and Christy the
assignee, and Walden. Interrogatories are propounded to Wal.
den, but he never appeared and answered. Christy alone answered, denying the allegations of the petition, and proof was
taken, and upon these the decree was made.
IL Hart had notice, at the time of filing his said petition, of the
lien of Fowler, because he was returned as a creditor by judicial
mortgage, and therefore, having a lien, he was entitled to be
convened. The-object being to affect his~rights, so far as they
were superior to those of the general creditors, Hart could only

DECEMBER TERM,
Fowler v.

1851.

877

Hart.

limit those rights by a proceeding in which Fowler could defend
them.
III. Nor is he estopped by the hotice and order of sale. The
property therein described is said to be bounded by New Levee,
Commerce, St. Joseph, and Julia streets.
The property in the decree correcting the mistake is described
as containing 23 feet 5 inches front upon New Levee street, between Julia and St. Joseph streets, by 125 feet 6 inches deep on
the line nekt to St. Joseph street, and 124 feet 7 inches on the
line of lot No. 2, and designated as the house or store No. 110
in said New Levee street; and the description of the property
in the petition of the assignee for the sale of the property is still
different, and makes it house No. 10. The description in the
original mortgage is, a certain lot of ground, No. 2, the house
numbered 109; situated..... between St. Joseph and Julia
streets, measuring 18 feet 10 inches front on New Levee street,
by 124"feet 7 inches deep on the dividing line of lot numbered
3, and 123 feet 81 inches on the dividing line of lot No. 1, and
about 21 feet 8 inches in the rear of the dividing line of lot No.
5. So that in fact the lot described in the mortgage was alongside of the one which it was pretended was designed to be conveyed, and both were within the description in the said notice
to Fowler. He, therefore, was not only neither party nor privy;
but he had no. -+ice of such pretended claim to pnt him on inquiry.
VII. Finally, it does not appear that there ever was any order
by the court in bankruptcy to erase and cancel the said mortgage
of said Fowler, and the same is now and hath ever been a valid
and subsisting-lien upon the lot claimed in his petition. In
such case the law of Louisiana is clear that -he had a right to
proceed against the person holding the land, and to a judgment
for the sale of the lot, and an account of the rents and profits in
the hands of Hart, holding and claiming the same adversely.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
Sttes for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
Fowler filed his bill in the Third District Court of New Orleans, representing that on the 16th December, 1839, he recoyered a judginent in the Commercial Court of New Orleans,
against, Daniel T. Walden and William Christy for $3,530;22,
besides interest; that on the 29th December, 1839, he caused
the judgment to be duly inscribed in the office of the recorder
of mortgages for the parish of New Orleans, by which the same
became a judicial mortgage on the real estate of the defendants
in the parish; that Walden afterwards became bankrupt, and
-

32*

878

SUPREME COUILT.
Fowler v. Hart.

Christy was appointed his assignee; and that he procured an
entry of cancellation to be made by the recorder of judicial
mortgages without his consent, and illegally; that the mortgage
remains in force.
And the plaintiff states that when the judgment was recorded,
and up to the time of the bankruptcy of Walden, he was the
owner and in possession of a certain lot of ground and buildings
thereon in the city of New Orleans, to wit, in the second municipality, in the square bounded by New Levee, St. Joseph,
Commerce, and Julia. streets, measuring 23 feet 5 inches front
oi New Levee street, by about 125 feet 6 inches in depth on
the side nearest St. Joseph street, 124 feet 7 inches in depth on
the side nearest Julia street, and about 21 feet 8 inches on the
rear line; which property is liable to the judicial mortgage of
the petitioner; that Christy, the assignee of Walden, sold the
same lot to one Nathan Hart, of New York, who took possession
thereof, and still remains in possession; that he well knew, at
the time of his purchase, that the petitioner's mortgage was a
lien on the same, and that Christy, the assignee, had no power
that his judgment
to cancel the same. And the petitioner avers
the Bankrupt Law.
lien was good under the 2d section of
On the application of Hart, he being a citizen of New York,
the suit was removed from the State cou-t to the Circuit Court
of the United States.
In his answer Hart denies that the petitioner has a mortgage
on' the property described in his petition; and slates that he
purchased the same for the sum of $4,700, under a sale of the
marshal, on 16th June, 1845, in pursuance of a decree of the
United States District Court, entered the 23d lay, 1S45, sitting
as a court of bankruptcy, in the matter of the bankruptcy of Daniel T. Walden, and confirmed according to law by a sale duly
recorded from Christy, the assignee, before a notary-public the 19th
June, 1845; and clear of all mortgages, the same having been
cancelled, by order of the. judgment of said court, the 23d May,
1845, on a rule, notice of which was duly served on petitioner.
The mortgage of the defendant, Hart, on the above property
was dated 22dMay, 1838, the judicial mortgagb of the petitioner
took effect the 29th December, 1839. But after the bankruptcy
of Walden, and before the sale of the property to Hart by the
assignee, it was discovered that there was a mistake in the mortgage in describing the property intended to be mortgaged. To
correct this mistake a bill was filed by Hart against Christy, the
assignee, ana on the 5th December, 1844, a'decree was obtained
correcting the mortgage so as to descrive the lot intended to be
moxtgaged. Of this proceeding
I g the petitioner, Fowler, seems to
haye had no notice.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

879

Fowler v. Hart.

Afterwards, on the 24th April, 1845, the assignee petitioned
the District Court, stating "that there is still in his possession,
as assignee, the following described property, specially mortgaged to Nathan Hart to secure the payment of the sum of
$S,655, with interest, which he prays may be sold on" certain
terms named. The lot above described is stated, and also other
property of the bankrupt. The court ordered that due notice of
the petition be published in two newspapers printed in the district, ten ddys at least before the time assigned for the hearing,
and that the petition be heard on the 23d MIay ensuing.
On the 10th May, 1845, the following rule was entered by
the court: "The assignee of the said estate having filed in this
court a petition as above described, it is ordered by the court
that a hearing of the said petition be had on Friday the 23d
May next, at 10 o'clock A. M., when, as one of the mortgage
creditors of said estate, you are notified to appear and show
cause why the property, as described below, should not be sold
upon the terms and in the manner and form set forth in said
petition, and why the said assignee should not be authorized to
erase and cancel the mortgages, judgments, and liens recorded
against said bankrupt, and in favor of certain creditors of the
estate, affecting the property surrendered, so that said assignee
may convey a clear and unincumbered title to any purchaser
thereof, reserving to such creditors all their rights in law to the
proceeds of the sale of the said property upon the final distribution thereof."
To this rule was appended the following, with other descriptions of property ordered to be sold. 1. "Property in the second
municipality, bounded by New Levee, Commerce, St. Joseph,
and Julia streets, with the improvements thereon, mortgaged to
Nathan Hart. Terms, one thi'd cash, the balance on a credit
of twelve and eighteen months."
To the property above designated No. 1, the name of Joseph
Fowler was appended, and the marshal returned "that he had
received the same on the 12th May, 1845, and on the same day
erved a copy of the rule on the within named Joseph Fowler."
The principal objection to the validity of the sale of the property to Hart is founded on the procedure in the District Court,
for the correction of the misdescription of the mortgage. As
between the mortgagor and mortgagee, there can be no objection to this proceeding. The District Court had jurisdiction of
the matter, and it is but the ordinary exercise of the powers of
a court of chancery to reform a mortgage or other instrument so
as to effdctuate the intention of the parties. But it is alleged
that. Walden having become a bankrupt, his property was vested
in-his assignee for the'benefit of his creditors, and that the judi-

880

SUPREME COURT.
Fowler v.

Hart.

cial mortgage of the petitioner could not be affected by a procedure in which the petitioner was not a party, and of which he
had no notice.
The assignee generally represents the creditors, and being made
a party to the proceeding on the mortgage, he appeared and denied the allegations of the petition of the mortgagee; but on the
hearing the District Court was satisfied of the truth of the allegations in the bill, and reformed the mortgage so as to describe
truly the property intended to be mortgaged. It is true that
Fpwler, the petitioner, was not a party to this proceeding, and
if the action of the ,istrict Judge had here terminated, it would
be difficult to maintain the decree.
By the 11th section of the bankrupt law the court had power
to order the assignee to redeem and discharge "any mortgage
or other pledge or deposit, or lien upon any property," &c. It
also necessarily had the power, on the sale of mortgaged premises, to distribute the proceeds as the law required. And in
regard to the property in question it appears that due notice
was given to Fowler of the application for the sale of it by
Hart, who claimed to have a special mortgage on it; and the
property was substantially described, and the day stated on
which the court would act on the ipplication. And in addition,
a notice was published in two newspapers ten days before the
time setfor hearing by the court. The object of this notice was
stated to be, to make an unembarrassed title to the purchaser,
and enable 7Fowler to make any objections he might have to the
sale, and the cancelment of his mortgage. That the rights of
creditors were reserved as to the proceeds of the mortgaged premises on a final distrilution.
Whether the petitioner, Fowler, took any steps under this
notice does not appear; and in the absence of such evidence, it
may well be presumed that he acquiesced in the procedure.
The notice afforded him an opportunity to assert his rights,
and to object .to the decree for the reform of Hart's mortgage, of
which he now complains, as fully as if he had. been made a
party to that proceeding. This he could have stated as an objection to the sale of the premises, or in claiming the proceeds
of that sale. The reform of the mortgage by the court could
not have estopped him from the assertion of his rights, as he
was not a party to that proceeding of the court. But, having neglected to assert his rights on the above occasion, it is
now too late to set them up against the purchaser of the -property at the sale.
Although there is some discrepancy in the description of the
property contained in the notice from that in the decree reforming the mortgage, yet substantially it is believed to embrace the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

381

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

same property; and as the notice was served upon the petitioner, as having a mortgage on the property, we think it was sufficient. The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
x nis cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the EaStern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consider-"
ation whereof, it is now here ordered, 'adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmec.

JOHN

H.

HOWARD,

PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR, V. STEPHEN M..IN-

GERSOLL; JOHN H. HOWARID AND JOsEPHus ECKOLLS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. STEPHEN A
INGERSOLL.

In 1802, when Georgia ceded her back lands to the United States, she had jurisdiction over the whole of the Chattahqochee River, from its source to the thirty-first
degree of north latitude.
The rule is that, where a power possesses a river, anudcedes the territory on the other
side of it, making the river the boundary, that power retains the river, unless there
is an express stipulation for the relinquishment of the rights of soil and jurisdiction
over the bed of such river.
When Georgia ceded to theUnited States all the land situated on the west of a line
- running along the western bank of the Chattahoochee River, she retained the bed
of the river and all the land to the east of the lineabove mentioned.

The river flows in a channel, between two banks, from fifteen. to twenty feet high,
between the bottom of which and the water, when the river is at a low stage, there
are shelving shores, from thirty to sixty yards each in width.
The boundary-line runs along 'the top of this high western bank, leaving the bed of
the river and the western shelvinz shore within the jurisdiction of Georgia. *
THESE two cases were argued and decided together. The
suits related to the same tract of land and the rights of the
same parties, although they came up from different States.
The first, which is referred to in the opinion Of the court as No.
121, was an action on the case brought by Ingersoll in the Circuit Court Of Alabama (State court) to recover damages for
the wrongful obstruction, by Howard, of the. Chattahoochee
River, whereby the waters of that stream wexe backed in such a
manner as to overflow Ingersoll's land and obstruct the use of
his mill. This mill waj built between the high bank of the
river and low-water mark, as it was called, so that when the
water was high it wras overflowed; but when the water was low,
it was on dry ground. At such times, it was worked by a race
fed from the iver by means of a wing, dam. Howard built a

