274

SUPREME

'COURT.

De Forest et al. v. Law'rence.
WILLIAM W. DE FOREST, GEORGE F. THOMAS, AND ROBERT
W. RODMAN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. CORNELIUS W. LAWIENCE, LATE COLLECTOR OF NEW YORK.

The tariff law of 1846, passed on the 30th of July, (9 Stat. at Large, 42,) contains
no special mention of imported sheepskins, dried witA the wool remaining on them.
They must be regarded as a non-enumerated article, and charged, -with a duty of
twenty per cent. ad valorem.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.
The plaintiffs in error, W. W. De Forest & Co. sued the collector to recover back money paid under protest, for duties on
importations into New York, in the years 1847 and 1848, from
:Buenos Ayres,.invoiced as sheepskins, having the wool on
them.
The collector (under instructions from the Secretary of the
Treasury) demanded and received a duty of thirty per cent. 'ad
valorem on the wool upon the sheepskins, and a duty of five
per cent. ad valorem upon the pelts.

The wool upon the skins was appraised at, .
Duty thereon at thirty per cent.,
-.
Skins without the wool,
Duty thereon at five per cent., .

5,578.95

. 9,972.14

498.60"
S0$28,568.66.

Total valuation of wool and skins,
Total duty,

$18,596.52

$6,077.55

Whilst the collector thus charged one duty upon the skin and
another upon the wool, the importers claimed to enter the articles at a duty of five per cent. upon the whole, and the court
decided that the proper duty to be charged was twenty per cent.
upon the entire valuation.
The cause of this great difference of opinion was as follows:
By the act of 19th May, 1828, (4 Stat. at Large, 271, chap.
55, sect. 2, first paragraph,) a duty is imposed on wool unmanufactured: "And- all wool imported on the skin shall be
estimated as to weight and value, and shall pay the same rate
of duty, as other imported wool."
By the act of July 14, 1832, (same vol. chap. 227, sect. 2, first
paragraph; p. 684,) wool unmanufactured is charged with duty:
"Provided, that wool imported on the skin shall be estimated, as
to weight and value, as other wool.",
By the act of 30th August, 1842, (5 Stat. at Large, chap. 270,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

275

De Forest et al. v. Lawrence.

sect. 1, paragraph first, p. 548,) a duty on wool unmanufactured
is imposed: "Provided, also, that wool imported on the skin
shall be estimated, as to weight and value, as other wool."
In the 5th sect. and sixth paragraph of that same act, of 1842,
(p. 554,) duties are imposed "on sheepskins, tanned and dressed,
or skivers, two dollars per dozen; on goat or sheepskins, tanned
and riot dressed, one dollar per dozen; on all kid and lambskins,
tanned and not dressed, seventy-five cents per dozen; and on
skixis tanned and dressed, otherwise than in color, to wit, fawn,
kid, and lamb, usually known as chamois, one dollar per dozen;
. . . on raw hides of all kinds, whether dried or salted, five per
cent. ad valorem; on all skins pickled and in casks, not specified,
twenty per cent. ad valorern."
Subsequently to these three statutes, so mentioning and distinguishing those three several classes of imports, eame the
statute of 30th July, 1846, (9 Stat. at Large, (Little & Brown,)
chap. 74, p. 42,) entitled " An act reducing the duties on importe, and for other purposds."
The first section enacted, that, from and after the first day of
December then next, "in lieu of the duties heretofore imposed
by law, on the articles hereinafter mentioned, and on such as
may be now exempt from duty, there shall be collected, levied,
and paid, on the goods, wares, and merchandise, herein enumerated and provided for, imported from foreign countries, the fol.
lowing rates of duty." Then follows the enumeration of various articles, subject to various duties, in schedules from A to
H, ranging from duties of one hundred per centum to five per
centurn ad valorem.
Section 2 enacts that the goods "mentioned in .chedule I,
shall be exempt from duty."
Section 3. imposes on all goods, wares, and merchandise imported from foreign countries, "and not specially provided for
in this act, a duty of twenty per centum ad valorem."
In schedule C, of articles subject to thirty per cent. ad valorem, "wool unmanufactured'" is mentioned, but "wool imported
upon the skin" is not specially provided for thcrein. In schedule II, among other articles subject to the duty of five per
cent. ad valorem, "raw hides and skins of all kinds, whether
dried, salted, or pickled," are mentioned; but "wool imported
on the skin" is not therein mentioned. In schedule I, of articles exempt from duty, wool imported on the skin, is not mentioned, neither is it mentioned in any one of the schedules, from
A to I inclusive.
On the trial of the case in the Circuit Court, Mr. Justice
Nelson instructed the jury that the article came most appropriately within the schedule of non-enumerated articles, and as
such was chargeable with a duty of twenty per cent.

SUPREME

COURT.

De Forest et al. v. Lawrence.

To which charge the counsel for the plaintiffs excepted, on the
ground that the court should have charged the jury that the article imported by the plaintiffs, raw sheepskins dried, fell under
schedule H, of the Tariff of 1846, and was not a non-enumerated article, but on the contrary, was enumerated under saiut
schedule H, and was liable only to a duty of five per cent., and
not to a duty of 20 per cent. That the said article being a raw
skin dried, and being not otherwise specifically provided for in
said act, was liable only to the same rate of duty as all other
raw skins dried. And the counsel for the said plaintiffs requested the court to charge the said jury accordingly, which request
was refused by the court, and the counsel for t1e plaintiffs thereupon excepted.
Upon this exception, the cause came up to this court, and was
argued by Mr.Schley, for the plaintiffs in error, and by 1r. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the d~fendant.
The points for the plaintiffs in error were the following:
I. The Tariff of 1846 provides,
1. For such articles of import as are " specially enumerated,"
as liable to certain rates of duty.
2. Such as are "exempt" from duty; and
3. Such as are not 41specially provided for in this act," but, as
non-enumerated articles, are made subject generally to a duty of
twenty per cent. ad valorem.
II. If an article is not "specially enumerated," or 11exe m pt,"
it must fall under the third class of "non-enumerated" articles.
This act, therefore, provides for every possible article of import, and whether any duty is leviable, and if so, at what rate,
is to be tested by this act alone.
ITL The terms "skins" and 9chides " are general descriptions
or denominations of certain classes of articles, known by that
name both as natural products and as articles of merchandise
and
I It commerce.
is to be presumed that Congress used and intended ihem
to be understood as they are ordinarily used and understood.
The "skin" or the "hide," the covering of the flesh of animals,
as a composite article, has parts: the fleece and the pelt. When
the general term is used, the parts are included; as in speaking
of the head, we include the eyes or the. hai.
IV. f the article is to be removed from its natural and commercial classification, be broken up, and one part be artificially
classed as wool, or hair, or fur, this can onaly be done by express
provision. Such an instance of separation appears in scheaule
G, where "furs undressed, when on the skin," are made liable to
a duty of ten per cent.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851

277

De Forest et al. v. Lawrence.

V. " Wool" and "hair" are used to designate a certain portion of the covering of the animal after it is shorn, clipped, or
cut off the skin; until clipped or cut they are a part of the skin.
A contract for wool would not justify a delivery of sheepskins;
nor a contract for sheepskins, a delivery either of wool, or of a
pelt shorn of the wool.
, VI. "Wool unmnanufactured," mentioned in schedule C, and
"hair of all kinds, uncleaned and unmanufactured," mentioned
in schedule G, refer to wool and hair, clipped or cut, and not to
the skin or hide with the wool or hair on, in its natural state.
When the skin or hide is shorn, one part is denominated wool
or hair, and the remainder is no longer termed a "skin," but a
"pelt."
VII. Thus as "hair" pays a duty of ten per cent, but the
skin with the hair on, only a duty of five per cent., in the case
of a deerskin; so in the case of a sheepskin, while the "wool"
pays a duty of thirty per cent., the skin with the wool on should
pay only a duty of five per cent.
VIII. The terms " skins" and "hides" are generic, and include all kinds of skins and hides. Schedule H, embodies this
idea in words, "hides and skins of all kinds," and intends the
hide or skin of every animal, deer, sheep, calf, horse, &c. Though
all these are known in trade as hides and skins, yet to distinguish them, the denominations of deerskins, sheepskins, calfskins, horsehides, &c., are appropriately used. To say that because one kind of skins is called "sheepskins," and another
"deerskins," &c., they are by such distinctive terms, removed
from tie general class designated in schedule H, "hides and
skins of all kinds," would be to destroy the class entirely; for
one after another, every kind of hide and skin could be thus removed until no kind would be left. If, because a particular skin
is called in commerce a sheepskin, it is removed from the genus
"skin," by the same argument Saxony wool, or Smyrna wool,
would not be comprised under "wool unmanufactured;" nor
camwood or fustic, under "dye woods," in schedule H; nor
horsehair under "hair of all kinds," nor beaver fur under "furs,"
nor emeralds under "precious stones," in schedule G, &c.
It is obvious that such a rule of construction would destroy
the tariff. Does~a stone cease to be a precious stone because it
is called an emerald? or a skin cease to be a skin because it is
called a sheepskin?
IX. If schedule H, then, merely described "hides and skins
of all kinds," a sheepskin would be comprised under it as ap- propriately as any other kind of skin.
X. But schedule H requires that the "hide or skin " should
be "raw," that is, unmanufactured or undressed, in order to
VOL, XIII.

24

278

SUPREME COURT.
Do Forest et al. v. Lawrence.

bring it under that echedule. The article in question in this
case, was "raw." Again, schedule H requires that it should be
"dried," 6salted," or "pickled," (various ways of preserving the
skins.) The article in~question was "dried."
XL The Buenos Ayres sheepskins imported by the plaintiffs
were "raw skins, dried," and as such, were articles enumerated
in schedule H, and liable only to a duty of five per cent.
In the argument of these points,.the counsel referred to the
following authorities: 1 Sumner, C. C. Rep. 166; 1 Story's C.
C. Rep. 341, 560, 610; 2 Id. 374; 8 Peters, 277; 10 Id. 137; 3
How. 106; 7 Id. 786; 1 Excheq. R. 281 ; Hume's Laws of the
Customs, 284, 287.

A1r Crittenden.- The importation must fall within the class
of articles embraced in the third section of the act of 1846, as
not specially otherwise provided for, and thereby be subjected ':o
a duty of twenty per cent. ad valorem.
"Wool, imported on the skin," was; by the act of 1828, subjected to a specific duty of four cents per pound, and"also in addition to an ad valorem duty of forty per cent. ; and also increasing annually by five per cent.; until the ad valorem duty
amounted to fifty per centum; by the act of 1832, it was subjected to a specific duty of four cents per pound, with the addition
of an ad valorem duty of forty per cent.; and by the act of 1842,
it was subjected- to a specific duty of three cents per pound,
with the additional duty of thirty per centum ad valorerm. So
stood the revenue laws in the statute books when the revenue
act of 30th July, 1846, was framed, and under consideration,
and passed. It is not reasonable to suppose that "wool imported on the skin," an article of foreign importation, which had
been, eo nomine, so long distinguished from "raw hides and
skins," by different descriptions, and by different rates of d
imposed on them, respectively, were, by the act of 1846, confounded and subjected to one and the same rate of duty, under
one and the same name.
By the well-established rules of construing statutes, "if divers
statutes relate to the same thing, they ought all to be taken
into consideration in construing any one of them." Where
there are-different statuies in pari materia, though made at
different times, or even expired, and not referring to each other,
they shall be taken and construed together as one system, and
as explanatory of each other. Rex v. Loxdale and others, 1
Burr. 447; 4 Bac. Abr. Statute (I.) 3, 646; The King v. Mason, 2 Term R. 586; Allesbury v. Pattison, Douglas, 30;
1 Black. Comm. 60, and Tutker's note, 3; Dwarris on Statutes, 700.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
De Forest

270

et al. v. Lawrence.

The revenue laws of the United States are all to be taken together as one system, one statute as explanatory of another.
The revenue act of 30th July, 1846, has reference expressly to
the former law for imposing duties and for exempting articles
from duties.
• In accordance with the established rules for construing statutes, "wool, imported on the skin," so noticed as an article
of commerce, and as such subjected to duty, in acts of 1828,
1832, and 1842, cannot be lost sight of in construing the act of
30th July, 1846; that article of commerce not being otherwise specially provided for in any of the schedules, from Ak to I
inclusive, must, of course, come under the general provision of
the third section, which imposes the duty of twenty per cent. ad
valbrem upon all goods imported from abroad, not otherwise
specially provided for in the act.
After the distinctions so clearly drawn, in the revenue law of
1842, between sheepskins, imported with the wool on the
skin, and raw hides and skins, dried, salted, or pickled, a construction of the act of 1846, would be preposterous and in violation of the established rules, which should obliterate that distinction, force sheepskins imported with the wool on the skin into
the denomination of raw hides, to be subjected to the same rate
of duty as if they had been imported divested of the wool.
The evidence adduced 5y the plaintiffs established, without
doubt, that the sheepskins were imported with the wool on the
skin. The law applicable to the fact made the importatione
liable to the rate of duty provided in the third section of the act
of 1846.
The opinions of the witnesses introduced by the plaintiffs, that
sheepsk ins, imported with the wool on the skin, dried, as it came
from the body of the sheep, may be comprehended under the
deno iiination of raw hides and skins dried, cannot change the
law, can have no legal effect to alter the construction of the
statutes. It is the province of the witness to testify as to fact;
it is the province of the judge to pronounce the law applicable
to the fact.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the. Southern
District of the State of New York.
The action was brought by the plaintiffs againsl the defendant, the late collector of the port of New York, to recover back an
excess of duties paid under protest on an article imported from
Buenos Ayres, described in the invoices and entries as "sheepskins." The importations were under the tariff act of 1846. The
article was imported with the wbol on the skins, and by the in.

SUPREME COUET.
De Forest et al. v. Lawrence.

structions of the Secretary of the Treasury, the collector was di"
rected to cause the-wool to be estimated and appraised, and to be
charged with a duty of thirty per cent. ad valorem under schedule
C, and five per cent. on the skin, under schedule H. The plaintiffs
claim that no more than a duty of five per cent. ad valoren
should be charged upon the entire article. It is usually described, in the invoices, and shipped as sheepskins, and known in trade
and commerce by that designation. The skin is in the same
condition as when taken from the animal, except it is dried. It
is not dressed.
The court below charged the jury, that the article came within
neither of the schedules mentioned, but was more properly a
non-enumerated article, and chargeable with a duty of twenty
per cent. ad valorem. And judgment was rendered in the case
accordingly.
By the act of May 19, 1828, (4 Stat. at Large, 271, sect. 2,) a
duty is charged upon wool imported on the skin; and direction
is given to estimate it as to weight and value, and impose the
same duty as*on other imported wool.
A similar provision is found in the act of July 14, 1832, (Id.
584, sect. 2,) and also, in the act of August 80,1842, (5 Id. 548.)
The article is not enumerated according to its previous designation in the revenue laws in the act of July 30, 1846, (Sess.
Laws, 68,) and, of course, no duty is specifically charged upon
it in that act as in the previous acts. But it is claimed, on the
part of the plaintiffs, that it falls within the description under
schedule H, "raw hides, and skins of all kinds, whether dried,
salted, or pickled, not otherwise provided for," and which are
chargeable only with a duty of five per cent. ad valorem.
This description was obviously taken from the act of 1842,
(sect. 5, para. 6,) ".on raw hides of all kinds, whether dried or
salted,/five per cent. ad valorem ; on all skins pickled, and in
casks, not specified, twenty per cent. ad velorem."
The only difference between this act, and the present one is,
that the two classes, "raw hides," and "1 ins," are nbw ranged
in one class, and the duty of five per cent. charged upon each.
"Skins pickled," are classed with "-raw hides dried or salted,"
which latter article, it is ivell known, is extensively imported
into the country for the purpose of being manufactured into
leather, and the duty is fixed at a low rate for the encouragement of the manufacturer.'
In this same act of 1842, it will be remembered, sheepskins,
imported with the wool on, were charged with a specific duty,
the same as unmanufactured wool, thus distinguishing the article from skins pickled, referred to in the 6th paragraph of the 5th
sect. of that act.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

281

De Forest et al. v. Lawrence.

We have no doubt, from the association of skins with raw
hides in the act of 1846, in'connection with the description,
and classification in the act of 1842, that they should be regarded as an article imported, like raw hides, for the purpose of
being manufactured; and, by no reasonable construction, can
be regarded as descriptive of the article in question.
The argument is quite as strong, and we think stronger, in
favor of ranging the article under the clause in schedule E:
"skins of all kinds, not otherwise provided for," and which is
chargeable with a duty of twenty per cent. ad valorem.
Neither do we think that the article can be separated, and a
duty charged separately upon the estimated quantity of the
wool, and upon the skin, according to the rate chargeable upon
each. This would be the introduction of a principle in the construction of the revenue acts heretofore unknown, and which
has no countenance in the provisions of the acts themselves.
. The 20th section of the act of 1842 looks to the component
parts of a manufactured article of two or more materials in fixing
the duty; but does not separate it, and charge the.duty on each
part according to the class to which it belongs. It assesses the
duty on the entire article at the highest rate at which any of
the component parts might be charged.'
Itis difficult also to say to what length this principle, if admitted, must be carried in construing these act . It couldnot, consistently, be limited to the article in question; for, while skins,
dried, are charged only with the duty of five per cent. ad valorem,
"hair of all kinds" is chargeable with a duty of ten per cent. ;
and the same rule of construction that would separate the
sheepskin, and charg6 a duty separately on the wool, and on
the skin, would require the deerskin, with the hair on, to be
separated, and the duty to be levied on each part. And so, in
respect to every other skin dried, salted, or pickled, imported
with the hair on.
It is true, that in the acts of 1828, 1832, and 1842, in each of
which a specific duty was charged upon the wool imported on
sheepskins, the appraisers were directed to estimate the weight
and value, for the purpose of assessing the duty. But'the
article was not divided, as no separate duty was assessed upon
the sldn by either of these acts. The act of 1842 assessed a
duty upon "skins piclded and in casks," but skins imported
with the wool on, when separated from the wool, would not
fall within this description. The whole duty, therefore, that
could be properly assessed upon the article was assessed upon
the estimated quantity of wool imported upon it.
The article has never been classed in any of the tariff acts
under the designation of skins; but has been charged always,
24 *

282

SUPREME COURT.
De Forest et al. v. Lawrnce.

since it came under the notice of these acts, with a specific
duty. It has been thus charged,, since the act of 1828, down to
the present act, a period of some eighteen years. And, although
it has been invoiced, and is known in trade and commerce, by
the designation of sheepskin raw, and dred, and may, generally speaking, be properly ranged under the donomination of
skins, as a class; yet, having a known designation in the
revenue acts, distinct from the general class to which it might
otherwise be assigned, we must regard the article in the light
in which it is viewed by thiese acts, rather than in trade and
commerce. For, when Congress, in legislating on the subject
of duties, has described an article so as to identify it by a given
designation for revenue purposes, and this has been so long continued as to impress on it a particular designation as an article
of import, then it must be treated as a distinct article, whether
there be evidence that it is so known in commerce or not. It
must be taken as thus known in the sense of the revenue laws,
by reason of the legal designation given tc it, and by which it
has been known and 'practised on at the custom-bouse.
It is but fair to presume, after having been treated by the
law-makers for a considerable length of time as an article
known by this designation, with a view to the assessment of
the rate of duty upon it, that, if intended to be charged specifically, or by enumeration, the designation by which, it was
known to them would have been used, instead of the one
known to trade and commerce, if that should be different.
The 3d section of the act of 1846, enacts, that on all goods,
wares, and merchandise not specifically provided for in the act,
a duty of twenty per cent. atd valorenm shall be charged.
Under the foregoing view of the law of the case, sheepskins,
imported with the wool on, must be regarded -as a non-enumerated article, and fall within-this third sectioi.
The probability is, that the enumeration was omitted from
an oversight, else the article would have been chargeable with
a duty in the way provided for in the act of: 1842. But, having
been omitted, and not specifically provided for, it necessarily
comes within the section mentioned, and subject to a duty of
twenty per cent. ad valorem.
We are of. opinion, therefore, the judgment of the court below was right, and should be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the re-iited States for the
cord -from the -Circuit Court of, the
Southern District of New York; and was argued by counsel,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

283

Walsh et al. v. Rogers et al.

oi consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs and
damages, at the rate of six per cent. per annum.

JOHN WALSH, EDWARD WALSH, AND DICKINSON B. MOREHEAD,
-OWNERS OF THE STEAMBOAT IOWA, APPELLANTS, V. PATRICK
ROGERS, THOIAS SHERLOCK, JOHN B. SIMMAONS, EDWARD
MONTGOMERY, JOHN W. BAKER, AND P. A. ANSHUTE, CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMBOAT DECLARATION, HER TACKLE; APPAREL,
AND"FURNITURE.
In a case of collision, upon the River AIississippi, between the steamboats Iowa and
Declaration, whereby the Iowa was sunk, the weight of evidence was, that the
Iowa was in fault, and the libel filed by her owners against the owners of the Declaration was properly dismissed.
Ezr parte depositions, under the act of 1789, without notice, ought not be taken,
unless in circumstances of absolute necessity, or in cases of mere formal'proof or
of some isolated fact.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The libel was filed by the appellants, in the District Court,
where they obtained a decree on the 1st May, 1848, for $18,500
and costs. Ail appeal was taken to the Circuit Court.
On the 19th of February, 1850, the cause was heard finally in
thp Circuit Court, and upon consideration of all the testimony,
as well that considered by the District Court, as the testimony
subsequently'taken, and arguments of counsel, the judgment of
The District Court was declared to be erroneous, was ordered to
be reversed and annulled, and the libel to be dismissed at the
costs of the appellants.
The libellants then appealed to this court
It was argued by _41r. Fendalland Hl!r. Ohilton, for the appellants, and .11r. Badger, for the appellees.
The questions were exclusively those of fact and evidence, as
will be seen by a reference to the opinion of the cohrt. No
question of law was raised in the case.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case presents no question of law for our decision. As
is usual in cases of collision, each party makes out a good case
by the testimony of the pilot and crew of his own boat. This
collision occurred, also, after night; and although the night was

