DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

441

Rogers v. Lindsey et al.

service of their masters," is repealed, so far as relates to the
penalty, by the act of Congress approved September 18th, 1850,
entitled, " An act to amend, and supplementary to, the act entitled 'An act respecting fugitives from justice and personsescaping from the service of their masters,"' 'approved February
12th, 1793.
2d. That the repeal of the said fourth section will in law bar
the present at-tion that was pending at the time of the repeal.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court
that It be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

LEWIS ROGERS, APPELLANT, V.- JOSEPH G. LINDSEY,
ATWOOD, AND JOHN S. BENNhTT.

IENRY S.

The following paper, viz.
"The Piesideut or Cashier of the Planters and Merchants Bank will please hold,
subject to the order of Mr. J.G. Lindsey, all the debts referred to in the inclosed
letter from Mr. McFarlin, except the two drafts of McColierMinge, upon the
Mlcsrs.Ellicotts, of Baltimore, which, when collected, please place to my credit"imports an authority to Lindsey to control the settlement and collection of these
several demands; but not necessarily a transfer of the title to or interest in them.
The circumstances of the case favor this construction. Lindsey had become personally responsible for a sum of money, which these debts were intended in part to
meet. As an honest transaction, it would answer all purposes, if hA had only a'
power to collect the debts.
Where Lindsey, under this power, assigned an interest in one of these judgments,
and the bill charged that the assignee knew of the interest of the original creditor,
which the assignee, in his answer, did. not deny, he failed to bring himself within
the rules which protect a purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice, and
his claim must be set aside.
Lindsey's having assigned this judgment to a third person, and then taken a reassignment of it, does not vary the case. He stands then in his original position.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Alabama.
The bill was filed by Rogers against Lindsey, Atwood, and
Bennett, under the circumstances mentioned in the opinion of
the court, and which it is not necessary to repeat.
The cause was heard upon the bill, answers, exhibits, and
proofs, in the said District Court, on the 17th of April, 1850, and
the court being of opinion that the plaintiff, Rogers, by his contract with the defendant, Lindsey, had assigned and transferred
the judgment in the said court, in favor of Rogers & Gray
against John S. Bennett, to said -Lindsey, and that he, Lindsey,
and the assignees under him, were entitled to the money made
thereon, ordered and decreed that the plaintiff's bill be dismissed, with costs.
Rogers, the complainant; appealed to this court.

-442

SUPREME COURT.
Rogers v. Lindsey et &I.

It was argued by Mr. Crittenden (Attorney-General) and
Mr. Chilton, for the appellant, and Mr. 3: A. Campbell, for the
appellee.
The arguments of the respective counsel were so much connected with the facts and circumstances of the case, that it is
impossible to narrate them without protracting this report to an
inconvenient length.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the ooinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Conit of the United States
for the Southern District of Alabama.
Lewis Rogers, the appellant, and complainant below, was one
of the firm, of Rogers & Gray, doing business in the city of
Richmond in 1836, and in the course of their business purchased
of Joseph G. Lindsey, one of the defendants, a large amount
of bills of exchange on the house of Goodman, Miller & Co.,
of the city of Mobile, of which about the sum of $20,000 was
unpaid, and the bills protested. Subsequently, in 1837, a settlement was effected with the firm at Mobile, and payment received
in several promissory notes, all of which were indorsed by Lindsey. Among these notes was one made by Bissell & Carville,
a business firm in Alabama, dated 20th April, 1837, and indorsed
by John S. Bennett, payable 1st January, 1838, for $3,297.27,
and which was also indorsed by Goodman, Miller & Co., and
Lindsey. This note, and a large amount of the paper thus
received in discharge of the debt of $20,000, was dishonored at
maturity, and duly protested, and judgments recovered against
the several parties liable, in the Circuit Court of the United States
in the Southern Distrit of Alabama. Tie judgment recovered
March, 1840, against Bennett, on the note of Bissell & Carville,
amounted to $3,875. About this time the partnership of Rogers
& Gray was dissolved, and the effects assigned to Rogers, the
complainant.
In June, 1840, while the securities, taken in payment of the
balance of $20,000 due to the firm of Rogers & Gray, stood in
this condition, Lindsey came to the city of Richmond, and
made a proposition for the settlement of iis liabilities as indorser upon them. They had been leftwith the Planters and Merchants Bank of Mobile, for collection, and judgments recovered
upon them at stated. Lindsey represented that all, or nearly all
the parties except himself upon the paper were insolvent, and
that little, if any -thing, could be realized on the judgments.
And he proposed to take them and give a note for $20,000,
made by himself, and indorsed by four other persons, citizens of
Alabama, who he represented were responsible, and would
pay the note at maturity, if Rogers would make a new advance

DBCEM-BER TERM, 1851.

443

Rogers v. Lindsey et al.

to him of $10,000 on the note of one Hudgingg, a citizen of
Virginia.
Upon the faith of these representations, and after some inquiries into the responsibility of the parties, Rogers agreed to the
proposition, and took the note of $20,000, which was payable
the first of January thereafter, and advanced the $10,000 on the
Hudgings note; and at the same time gave to Lindsey the following writing:
"The President or Cashier of the Planters and Merchants
Bank will please hold, subject to the order of Mr. J. G. Lindsey
all the debts referred to in the inclosed letter from Mr. McFarlin,
except the two drafts of MeCollier Minge upon the Messrs. Ellicotts, of Baltim9re, which, when collected, please place to my
credit." 13th June, 1840.
The list of debts referred to in the letter of MeFarlin were the
securities that had been left with the bank at Mobile by Rogers
for collection, and which had passed into judgments, as already
stated.
When this note of $20,000 fell due, on the 1st ot January,
1840, it was dishonored, and the paper duly protested. This
note has never been paid.
Lindsey, after receiving the authority to control the securities
and judgments in the bank at Mobile, returned, and made collections out of them to the amount of between $3,000 and

$4,000.
Besides this amount, he has collected the judgment against
Bennett to the amount of $6,292.66, principal and interest, that
being the amount due at the date of the collection by the marshal, on the execution, June 5th, 1848. The judgmert had been
recovered March, 1840, and execution issued returnable November term following. An alias was issued 31st January, 1842,
returnable March term following; and a pluries 24th December,
1842; a second and third, January and March, 1844; and a
fourth and fifth, March, 1845, and April, 1848, on the last of
which the sale took place of the property of Bennett.
The execution had been delayed by proceedings in the courts
to stay the sale.
This bill was filed in the court below to arrest this $6,292.66,
in the, hands of the marshal, Rogers claiming that the money
belongs to him. It has been brought into court and awaits the
final decree in the cause.
On the 24th December, 1842, Lindsey petitioned for the benefit of the Bankrupt Act, passed August 19th, 1841, find obtained
his discharge on the 2d M1ay, 1843.
None of the securities or judgments that he received from
Rogers in June, 1840, at the time he gave him the note of

444

SUPREME COURT.
Rogers v. Lindsey et %1.

$20,000, is fQund ih the list of his'assets. The only allusion to
them is ar 6bscure reference in his list of creditors to the note
of BisselL& Carville, which he says was given to C. D. Hunter
as security for a debt due him.
The ground upon which Rogers claims that he is entitled to
the money collected on the judgment against Bennett, is:
1. That according to the agreement with Lindsey, at the time
he took the note of $20,000, it was not intended to vest in the
latter any interest in the securities and judgments that had been
left in the Planters and Merchants Bank at Mobile, for collection, but only to confer an authority upon him to take charge
of the settlement and collection of the same, so that the proceeds might be applied to the payment of the note. In other
words, that there was no assignment of these judgments in.
tended, but a power to settle and convert the-m into money for
the purpose stated, as Lindsey's residence in Alabama enabled
him to. give his personal attention to the business; and as he
was deeply interested in realizing the payment of them, as -he
was on all the securities.
2. That admitting there had been an absolute assignment to
Lindsey, and -that it was so intended, still the complainant is
entitled to arrest the money in the hands of the marshal, and
have it applied to his debt, on the ground that it was obtained by
false representations, both in respect to the value of these judgments, Lindsey representing that they were worthless, and also
in respect to the solvency and responsibility of the sureties upon
the note of $20,000.
On the part of Lindsey, it is insisted, that this note was given
on the express condition that the judgments in the bank at Mobile were to be assigned absolutely to him for his own benefit;
and that no fraudulent representations, as alleged, were made by
him at the time.
The first question must depend upon the effect of the written
'instrument that passed between the parties as the result of the
negotiation between them, as we have no other evidence on this
branch of the case, except the allegations in the 5ill and answer.
And, on looking at that instrument, we are satisfied that, upon
a fair construction, it imports an authority to Lindsey to control
the settlement and collection of these sevEral demands; but not
necessarily a transfer of the title to, or interest in, them.
This interpretation satisfies the words of the instrument; and
there is nothing in the transaction itself, or in the relation in
which the parties stood to each other, that should induce the
court to give it a strained construction in favor of this defendant.
If a transfer of the interest had been contemplated, as the in-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

445

Rogers v. Lindsey et al.

strument was drawn for the purpose of carrying into effect the.
agreement and understanding of the parties, it is surprising
that words importing an assignment are altogether omitted, and
those importing only an authority over the list of judgments,
used. It would have been most natural to have drawn an assignment in terms. Nor do we perceive that it could have been
of any material importance to Lindsey to have stipulated for a
transfer. The debt of $20,000 was his, and it.would fall due
in six months, and the purpose of -giving this note as set up at
the time, was to get some delay, so as to be able to realize
something out of the securities in the bank at Mobile. And
whether he, therefore, took a transfer 'of them, or a full authority
to settle and collect them, would seem, in view of any honest
purpose, a matter more of form than substance.
Our conclusion, therefore is, that Lindsey took no interest in
these judgments, as assignee, by operation of the written directions given to the Planters and Merchants Bank, by Rogers, on
the 13th June, 1840; nor is there any evidence in the case leading to that conclusion.
Having arrived at this result, it is unimportant to inquire into
the question of fraud relied on as vitiating the assignment upon
the assumption that one had been established. There is certainly very strong grounds for dubting as to the bonafides of
the transaction on the part of Lindsey.
The bill states that he represented the sureties upon the note
of $20,000 as men of undoubted means, and who would not allow their paper to be dishonored, and that, if he did not take it
up at maturity, they would.
This Lindsyy substantially admits in his answer. And yet, the
note was dishonored, and no portion of it paid by these sureties,
and, as is apparent from the evidence, the demand could not
have been collected by force of law. It is unimportant, however,
to pursue this branch of the case.
The next and only remaining question in the case is, in respect
to an interest set up by the defendant, Atwood, in this judgment against Bennett. He claims an interest to the amount of
$2500, by an assignment from Lindsey, since his discharge
under the Bankrupt Act, some time in the year 1843 or 1844, by
way of securing the payment of an old debt due befdre the proceedings under that act.
The bill charges, that Atwood knew Lindsey had obtained
the control of the judgment against Bennett by false. representations ; and that he conspired with him to consummate the fraud
thus committed upon the complainant.
This allegation -is not met and denied in, the answer. Nor is
there any denial of knowledge that Lindsey had obtained no
VOL. XIII.

38

SUPREME COURT.
Rogers v. Lindsey et i1.

interest in, or title to, the judgment from the plaintiffs in the
same, or from Rogers the complainant. He says he does not
remember that he 'ever saw.any evidence of title to the judgment in Lindsey from Rogers & Gray, the plaintiffs, or from
either of them, but avers, that he knew he had a title to the
same from one Hunter. Neither does Atwood set up in his
answer that he obtained the assignment of the interest he claims
in the judgment bondfide, and without notice of the title of the
complainant.
Under these circumstances, and in view of the nature of the
defence set up by Atwood, it is quite clear he does not bring
himself withill the rule in equitr which protects the title of a
purchaser without noticd. The bill virtually charged him with
notice of the complainant's interest in the judgment, for the purpose of invalidating any claim that he might set up to the same
under the assignment; and in order to protect himself, and to
show that he was not in privity with Lindsey, he was bound to
aver in his answer, that the purchase was made for a valuable
consideration without notice.
Neither can he protect himself under the averment in the
answer, that Lindsey obtained a title to the judgment from
Hunter.
The facts are, that Hunter, in the Fall of 1841, took an assignment of this judgment from Lindsey, in consideration' of a lot
of land in Wilcox county, Alabama; and that in the Spring
of 1844 he reassigned the same, and took Lindsey's note for the
demand. Lindsey, being the original party to the fraud, is disabled from setting up this title of Hunter, conceding it to be a
good one against the complainant. The reassignment clothes
him with no better title than he possessed when he assigned the
judgment to Hunter.
A purchaser with notice may protect himself by obtaining the
title of a purchaser for a valuable conside-a'cion without notice,
unless he be the original party to the fraud. The bondfide purchase purges away the equity froni the title in the hands of all
persons who may obtain a derivative title, except it be that of
the original party, whose conscience stands bound by the violation of the trust, and a meditated fraid. 1 Story, Eq. Jur. 897,
398, and cases. Atwood, therefore, car, derive no benefit from
the purchase of Hunter, even if that had purged the equity of
Rogers, as that equity immediately attached on the reassign.
ment of the judgment to Lindsey, and bound it in his hands;
and any one coming in under him chargeable with notice stands
in no better situation.
In every view, therefore, that we have been able to take of
the case, we think the decree of the court below'erroneous, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
McAfee et al. v.

447

Crofford.

should be reversed, and the proceedings remitted; with directions
to enter a decree that the complainant is entitled to the fund in
court collected upon the judgment against Bennett, together
with vosts of suit in this court and in the court below.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court- of the United States for the Southern
District of Alabama. and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed with costs, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to that court to enter a decree in favor
of the complainant for the fund in court collected upon the
judgment against Bennett, together with the costs of this suit
in this court and in the said Circuit Court.

MoRGAN

MCAFEE,

MAADisoN

McAFEE, AND, JAMES ALFOrp,
T. CROFFORD.

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JAMES

In an action of trespass, for forcibly invading a plantation, carrying off'some slaves,
and frightening others. away. it was proper for the plaintiff to give in evidence the
consequential damages which resulted to his wood and corn.
It was proper, also, to allow the defendant to give in evidence a judgment against
the own& of the plantation, as principal, and himself as surety, and his own paynent of that judgment. It was allowable, both as an explanation of his motives,
and to show how much he had paid both reasons toncurring to mitigate the
damages.
Evidence was also allowable to show that arrangements had been entered into between the principal and surety, whereby time would be given for the payment of
the debt. This was allowable, as a palliation of the conduct of the principal in
removing his slaves without the State.
Evidence was also admissible to show that the surety had not been compelled to pay
the debt, by showing that the creditor had been enjoined from collecting it. This
was admissible, in oider to rebut the evidencer previously offered on the other
side.
It was proper for the court to charge the jury that, in assessing damages, they had a
right to take into consideration aft the circumstances.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of MissiSsippi.
It was an action of trespass brought
by Crofford, who described himself as a citizen of Tennessee, but who had a plantation in Arkansas. The suit was brought against the McAfees

