DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

71

The Richmond, &c. Rairroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

THE RICHIMOND, FREDERICKSBURG, AND POTOMAC RAILROAD COiPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE LOUISA RAILROAD COMPANY.
The lcgislature of Virginia incorporated the stockholders of the Richmond, Fredericks.
burg, and Potomac Railroad Company, and in the charter pledged itself not to allow
any other railroad to be constructed between those places, or any portion of that
distance; the probable effect would be to diminish the number of passengers travelling between the one city and the other upon the railroad authorized by that act, or
to compel the said compmy, in order to retain such passengers, to reduce the passage-money.
Afterwards the legislature incorporated the Louisa Railroad Company, whose road
came from the West and struck the first-named company's track nearly at right
angles, at some distance from Richmond; and the legislature authorized the Louisa
Railroad Company to cross the track of the other, and continue their road to
Richmond.
In this latter grant, the obligation of the contract with the first company is not
impaired within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.
In the first charter, there was an implied reservation of the power to incorporate
companies to transport other articles than passengers; and if the Louisa Railroad
Company should infringe upon the rights of the Richmond Company, there would
be a remedy at law, but the apprehension of it will not justify an injunction to
prevent them from building their road.
Nor is the obligation of the contract impaired by crossing the road. A. franchise
may be condemned in the saxte manner ps individual property.

(Mr. Justice DANIEL did not sit in this cause.)
THis case -was brought up from the Court of Appeals of the
State of Virginia, by a writ of error, issued under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mlr. Robinson, for the plaintiffs in error, and

Mr. Lyons and 111r. Johnson, for the defendants in error.
2M'. Robinson, for the plaintiffs in error, made the following
points

-

1. That, under' the act passed the 25th of February, 1834,
incorporating the stockholders of the Richmond, Fredericksburg,
and Potomac Railroad Company, Sess. Acts, 1833 -4, p. 127,
there is, by force of the 38th section, copied in the record, at
p. 165, and of what has been done under the act, a contract,
the obligation of which cannot be impaired by any State law.
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 135, 1,36, 137; Terrett, &c. v. Tay-.
lor, &c. 9 Id. 50; Wilkinson v. Leland, &c. 2 Pet. 657; State
of New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 166; Green v. Biddle, 8
Wheat. 92; Providence Bank v. Billings, &c. 4 Pet. 560; Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 637; State of New
Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; Armstrong, &c. v. Treasurer

SUPREME COURT.
The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

of Athens Co. i6 Pet 289; Gordon v. The Appeal Tax Court,
3 How. 133.
2. That a court of equity has jurisdiction to proteef the plaintiffs in the enjoyment of their chartered privileges, and should
award an injunction -to restrain the defendants from any acts
which would impair the obligation of the contract under which
the plaintiffs claim; from any acts which the defendants arc
bound (whether by contract or duty) to abstain from. Green
v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 91; Opinion of Kent, J. in Livingston v.
Vah Ingen,.9 Johns. 585 lo 589; Coats v. Clarence Railway
Company, 1 Russ. & Mylne, 181 ; 4 Cond. Eng. Ch. Rep.'378 ;
Frewin v. Lewis, 1 Mylne & Craig, 255; 18 Eng. Ch. Rep.
255; Canal Company v. Railroad Company, 4 Gill & Johns. 3 ;
Osborn v. 'United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 838, 841 ; Stevens v.
Keating, 2 Phillips, 334; 22 Eng. Ch. Rep. 334; The AttorneyGeneral v. The Great Northern Railway, 3 Eng. Law & Eq.
263; The Great Western Railroad Company v. The Birmingham and Oxford Railroad Company, 2 Phillips, 597; Villiams
v. Williams, 2 Swanst. 253; Dietrichsen v. Cabburn, 2 Phillips,
52; 22 Eng. Ch. Rep. 52, and class of cases there referred to;
Kemp v. Sober, 4 Eng. Law & Eq. R. 64.
3. Thatthe exercise of such jurisdiction should not be declined,
because of the provision in the 18th section of the act incorporating the 'stockholders of the Louisa Railroad Company, Sess.
Acts 1835-6, p. 174, sect. 18, or in the 13th section of the act
prescribing general regulations for the incorporation of railroad
companies. Sess. Acts 1836-7, p. 107, sect. 13. For even if
those provisions apply to the defendants' work between the
junction and Richmond, (and the plaintiffs;, p. 22, insist they do
not,) yet following, as they do, sections relating to proceedings
for ascertaining the damages to a proprietor for the condemnation of his land, it is mautifest they were only intended for the
case of such a proprietor, asking for an injunction to stay the
proceedings of a company which is taking-his land for its work,
and though under the case of The Tuckahoe Canal Company v.
The Tuckahoe and James River Railroad Company, 11 Leigh,
42, cited in the answer, p. 169, 17.4, they may apply to land of
one corporation taken for the work of another, yet they are not
intended for, and are inapplicable to the case of a company en.
joying a right under a contract with the State, which asks to be
protected in that enjoyment against another company, claiming,
not under a prior but a subsequent grant. And 2, wxhatever
may have been the intention of those acts, vet being passed after
the grant in the 38th section of the plaintiffs' charter, they cannot be allowed to impair the obligation of the contract arising
under that grant; but the plaintiffs claiming under it, are entitled

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

73

The Richmond, &c.'Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

to whatever is necessary to make that grant effectual and protect them in the enjoyment of tfieir rights. Babcock v. Western
Railroad Corporation, 9 Metcalf, 556; Blakesley v. Whieldon,
1 Hare, 180; 23 Eng. Ch. Rep. 180; Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat.
75; Bronson v. Kinzie et al. 1 How. 319; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How. 612.
4. That the court, in respect to those matters which are distinctly raised, should declare the right of the plaintiffs, and upon
such declaration decree an injunction in terms ascertaining the
extent of the right. Cother v. The Midland' Railway, 2 hill.
472; 22 Eng. Ch. Rep. 472.
5. That from the facts stated in the bill, and not denied,
and also from the map of Mr. Crozet, it is obvious that the
probable effect of allowing the defendants to have a railroad
between the city of Richmond and the city of Washington,
for that portion of said distance which is from the junction
to Richmond, will be to diminish thA number of passengers
travelling between the city of Richmond and the city of Washington, upon the plaintiffs' railroad, or to compel them, in order
to retain such passengers, to reduce the passage-money. And
if such would be the probable effect, the defendants (as is
contended in the petition, as well as in the bill,) should until
the expiration of the thirty years mentioned in the plaintiffs'
charter, have been enjoined from constructing their railroad for
said portion of the distance. Rankin v. Huskisson, 4 Sim. 13;
6 Eng. Ch. Rep. 7; Blakemore v. Glamorganshire Canal Navigation, 1 Myl. & Keen, 154; 6 Eng. Ch. Rep. 544, and cases
before cited. And the defendants having, notwithstanding the
warning given by the letter of the 18th of December, 1848,
and by the institution of this suit, proceeded with such construction, they might and should, at the hearing, have been enjoined, and ought now to be enjoined from further constructing
or using their railroad for that portion of the distance. Lane v.
Newdigate, 10 Ves. 192. And if the construction has been
completed, the injunction against the use should continue not
only until the expiration of said thirty years, but for such timeafter the thirty years as it may reasonably be supposed would be
occupied in the construction, if it had not taken place \vithin
the thirty years. For, as the bill insists, the protection will
not be preberved to the extent to which it is granted, if immediately on the expiration of the thirty years there can be opened
for transportation, a railroad constructed within that period.
6. That although an injunction to the extent mentioned in
the preceding point would, as c'ntended in the petition, give
no higher security to the plaintiffs than was intended by the
legislature, yet if tho court do not grant it to that extent, it
VOL. XIII.

7

74

SUPREIE COURT.

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

should, at least, prohibit acts, the probable effect of which would
be to diminish the number of passengers travelling between the
city of Richmond and the.city of Washington, upon the plain.
tiffs' railroad, or to compel the plaintiffs, in order to retain such
passengers, to reduce the passage-money; it should make such
prohibition to whatever extent may be necessary to protect the
plaintiffs in the enjoyment of their rights.
7. That the prohibition should be of all transportation of
passengers on the defendants' railroad between Richmond and
the junction; 1st, upon the ground taken in the bill, and the
answer, that he who travels only over. a portion of the railroad, equally with him who travels over the whole line, is,
within the meaning of the 38th section of the plaintiffs' charter, a passenger travelling between (that is over the whole, or
some part of the intermediate space between) the cities of Richmond and Washington; a ground sus:ained in part by the
judge, and strongly fortified by the views presented in the
petition, and, 2d, upon the ground that such prohibition is
necessary to' protect the plaintiffs in respect to passengers
travelling the whole distance between those cities. For, in
the absence of such prohibition, the Louisa company may take
passengers at reduced rates between Richmond and the junction, as pointed out in the bill, and between the junction
and Washington or Alexandria give through tickets in conjunction with the Orange and Alexandria railroad.
8. That if the court do not prohibit all transportation of passengers on the defendants' railroad between Richmond and the
junction, it should, at the least, prohibit the transportation by
the defendants on their railroad of passengers travelling between
the city of Richmond and the city of Washington. The neces.sity for an injunction to this extent is not at all obviated by the
concession remarked on in the answer. Nor is the remark
of the judge, that "to award the injunction now would be to
inflict a present, certain, and serious injury upon one party, to
prevent a remote, uncertain, and possible injury to the other,"
well founded as to the injunction here proposed. For no injury
is inflicted on the defendants by requiring them to abstain from
what it is their duty to abstain from. While on the other hand,
a remedy far more effectual than any at law can be had in
equity through its restraining power, which besides awarding
the injunction as here proposed, may, and it is submitted, should
in aid of such injunction, prohibit through tickets between
Richmond and Washington, at points south of Richmond and
north of Washington, by the Louisa road.
9. That the final decree in these suits. in the State court,
should be reversed in the Supreme Court; and this court should

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

75

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

proceed to pass such decree as the State court which made such
final decree should have passed, to wit: in the second case, for
obvious reasons, some of which are stated in the answer to
the bill in that case, it should dissolve the injunction and dismiss the bill with costs; and in the first and principal case, it
should award such injunction as is proper, and decree against
the defendants the costs. The writ of error issued under the
act of Congress, is to be so used as to effect the object. Gelston
v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 303. The mandate for execution should
issue to the Circuit Court of Chancery for the county of Henrico. Clerke v. Harwood, 3 Dali. 342.
The points made by the counsel for the defendants in error,
were the following:
I. That this court has no jurisdiction of the case, the court of
final resort in Virginia not having pronounced a final decree or
judgment, but having simply refused to relieve the complainants
by injunction, in the face of the statutp of the State. This
refusal to allow an appeal is no affirmance of the reasons of the
court below.
II. That the appellants have not such a monopoly as they
claim. That the grant which they insist upon as contained in
the 38th section of their charter is void: 1. Because it is unintelligible. 2. Because it is impracticable, as no standard is furnished in the charter, or elsewhere, by which any tribunal can
determine what is the extent of the grant or its limitation; and,
therefore, no means exist by which to determine when the grant
is violated, and when not, according to its terms; no distance
being furnished within which, to the right or left of the existing
road, another road shall not be made. The franchise claimed
is, therefore, undefined, and therefore void; or, if defined, as the
appellants insist, it confers upon them an unlimited power over
thp territory, highways, and people of Virginia, and over the
legislative power of the State, and the power to advance and
improve the State, which the legislature had no power to confer, and therefore it is void.
One legislature had no power to say to all future legislatures
that there should never be more than one railroad between
Richmond and Washington, without regard to the wants of the
country and the capacity of this road to meet them; or that
there should be but one for thirty years; and still less could it
transfer the right so to declare to a petty corporation. The
change of the form does not increase the'power; the defect
still is a want of power. The name of " contract" cannot conceal or justify the usurpation. The power of internal improvement over the State generally, or over a large portion of it, cannot be bartered away by the legislature. The legislature is

76

SUPREME COURT.

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

clothed with power for the benefit of the people, and the improve.
ment of the State, and a law declaring that it shall not be improved, would be a gross abuse, a usurpation, in fact, of power,
which would be void. To that extent the monopoly here claimed
goes, if sustained.
III. If the grant is worth any thing, it is only by giving it a
reasonable interpretation, having regard to the end proposed, the
general interest of the community, and the power of the legislature ; and thus interpreted, it only means that the appellants
should have a monopoly of the passengers travelling from Richnmond to Washington directly, or to such intermediate point as
the Fredericksburg railroad could carry them to. This interpretation the appellants deny, and thus make their grant unintelligible. It was not intended to forbid the construction of a
railroad to Winchester, or the Ohio, because, when a passenger
reached either of those points, he might get on the Baltimore
and Ohio road, and thus get to Washington. Nor w as it intended that the people residing five, ten, or twenty miles east
and west of the Fredericksburg road, should be denied for thirty
years the use of a railroad, unless they would first travel to, and
then travel upon, the Fredericksburg railroad.
Taking this view, the most favorable for the appellants which
can be taken, the decree in Virginia is correct.
IV. The grant to the appellants, under the most enlarged and
extravagant view of it, relates only to the profits of passengers.
It has no reference to freights, and was never intended to have,
and if intended, cannot, by its words, have the effect to denude
the legislature of The power to authorize a railroad to carry agricultural products, and other freights; and therefore the decree in
Virginia was right. The court had, therefore, no power to prevent the construction of the road. If it could do any thing, it
could only restrain the improper use of it, when a proper case
should be made, which was not made by the appellants.
V. There was no violation of the rights of the appellants in
authorizing the Louisa Company to cross their road, because
they could do so only upon condition of paying the value of the
privilege, even to the extent, if necessary, of the entire value of
the franchise. A franchise is but a qualified property, and can.
not, therefore, be more sacred and inviolable than the unqualified property of the owner in fee, whose property is condemned
for the purposes of the franchise; over every franchise the "jus
pitblicum" must prevail, as it does over all other property.
3 Leigh, 318; 11 Leigh, 42; 11 Peters, 644, 649, 667, 638, 641,
646; 6 How. 507.
If the opposite conclusion can be maintained, then the monstrous result follows, that the raihoad of the appellants is an

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

77

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

impassable barrier between Eastern and Western Virginia,
which can never, at any point, be crossed by another railroad.
The legislature never intended to erect such a barrier, and had
not the power to do it if they would.
VI. If the appellants sustained any wrong, their remedy was
not by injunction. 1. Because an injunction must have inflicted
enormous and certain mischief upon the appellees, while the
injury to the appellants, if it was denied, was uncertain, hypothetical, and might never occur, and could be redressed without
an injunction. In such cases an injunction is never awarded.
2. Because the chancery courts in Virginia have, by law, no
jurisdiction to grant an injunction in a case like the present.
(See acts referred to in the answer, viz., 13th sect. of Gen. Railroad Law, 1837, and 18th sect. of the Charter of the Louisa Company.) And Virginia alone can prescribe the jurisdiction of her
own courts. She can mould her remedies as she pleases. She
can abolish her chancery courts as New York has done, or she
can define their jurisdiction at pleasure; and this court has no
power to say that she shall have chancery courts, or, if she has
them, they shall exercise a jurisdictiori forbidden by her laws.
She may be bound to provide some remedy for wrong, but she
is the exclusive and sovereign judge of the form of the remedy.
But she is not bound to furnish any remedy for the courts of the
United States. The judiciary act of the United States applies
only when she does provide a remedy.
VIL As to the last bill filed by the appellants, this court can
have no jurisdiction. A refusal of an injunction is not a final
decree under any interpretation of those words, for a new bill
may be presented every day, and the refusal of -one is no bar to
another.
A court may refuse an injunction, and yet at the
hearing decide for the plaintiff.
The Supreme Court of the United States does not sit to revise the Virginia chancellors upon applications for injunctions.
The followxing authorities will be relied upon inrthe argument
by the counsel for the appellees, viz.: I. 6 Howard, 209; Gibbons v. Ogden, 6 Wheaton, 448.
II. 11 Peters, 467, 547; 6 Cranch, 138, 135; 3 Dall. 388;
Vattel, 4, 14, 40, 41; Domat, book 1, tit. 6, sect. 1; Puflnd.,
book 8, c. 5, sect. 7; Attorney-General v. Burridge, 10 Price,
.72, 373; Locke-on Government, 304, 307.
III. Johnson's Dictionary -" Between."
V. Vattel, 40, 4i, 103; Hawkins v. Barney's Lessee, 5 Peters, 457; Coats v. The Clarence Railway Co., 1 Russell &
Mylne, 181.
VL Eden on Injunction, 236; Earl of Ripon et al. v. Hobart,
3 Mylne & Keen, 169, 174; Attorney-General v. Nichol, 16
74*

78

SUPREM1E COURT.

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. Tho Louisa Railroad Co.

Vesey, 342; Bonaparte v. The Camden & Amboy Railroad, 1
Baldwin C. C. Reps., 205; Jackson v. Lamphire, 3 Peters, 280.
Mr. Justice GRIEA delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on a writ of error to the Court of
Appeals of Virginia.
The appellants filed their bill in the Superior Court of Chanon the 25th
cery for ththat,
of February, 1834, the.General Assembly of Virinia passed an
act entitled "An act to incorporate the stockholders of the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Potomac Railroad Company;" That
in order to induce persons to embark their capital in a work of
great public utility, thd legislature pledged itself to the said
company, that, in the event of the completion of said road from
the city of Richmond to the town of Fredericksburg, within a
certain time limited by said act, the General Assembly would
not, for the period of thirty years from the completion of said
railroad, allow any other railroad to be constructed between
those places, or any portion of that distance, the probable effect
of which would be to diminish the number of passengers travelling between the one city and the other upon the railroad authorized by said act, or to compel the said company, in order to
retain such passengers, to reduce the passage-money; that the
stock was afterwardssubscribed, the charter issued, and the road
constructed, within the time limited by the act; that on the 18th
of February, 1836, an act was passed incorporating "The Louisa Railroad Company, for the purpose of constructing a railroad
from some point on the line of the Richmond, Fredericksburg
and Potomac Railroad, in the neighbcrhood of Taylorsville,
passing by or near Louisa court-house, to a point in the county
of Orange, near the eastern base of the south-west mountains,
with leave to extend it to the lue Ridge, or across the same to
Harrisonburg; that on the 28th of December, 1838, this railroad
was opened from Louisa court-house to -the junction with complainants' road. The bill then gives a history of the several
contracts made between the -two companies for the transportation of the freight and passengers of the Louisa railroad from
the junction to Richmond, and of the frequent and protracted disputes and difficulties which arose between the two corporations
on the subject of the compensation to be paid to the complainants for such services, the particulars of which it is unnecessary
to mention; the result being, that the respondents insisting that
the demands made by complainants for this service were exorbitant and oppressive, finally petitioned the legislature for leave
to extend their road from the junction to the city of Richmond.
That complainants resisted, and protested against the passage

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

79

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

of such an act,'as an infringement of the rights guaranteed to
them by their act of incorporation. Nevertheless, the legislature
on the 23d of March, 1848, passed an act authorizing the
respondents to extend their road from the junction to the dock,
in the city of Richmond, unless the complainants would comply with certain terms which were deemed reasonable; and the-e
terms being refused by complainants, the respondents commenced the construction of their road to Richmond, and to extend it across the road of complainants at the junction.
The bill insists that the grant of the act of the 27th of March,
1848, to the Louisa Railroad Company, is inconsistent with the
previous grant to cQmplainants, and impairs the obligation of
the contract made With them; that the lands condemned for
their franchise cannot be taken from the complainants for the
use of the respondents, and that they have, therefore, no right
to build their road across the road of complainants. It prays,
therefore, that the respondents may be enjoined: 1st. From entering upon any lands which have been condemned for the use
of complainants' road, for the purpose of constructing a railroad
across it; 2d. That the respondents may be enjoined from all
further proceedings towards the construction of a railroad between the junction and the city of Richmond; and, 3d. That
they may be enjoined from "transporting on the railroad so proposed, persons, property, or the mail, and especially from transporting passengers travelling between the city of Richmond ana
the city of Washington."
The respondents, in their answer, deny "that the act of Assembly which authorizes them to construct their road from its
terminus at the city of Richmond, in any manner violates the
bill of rights, or Constitution of Virginia, or the Constitution of
the United States, or any right guaranteed to the complainants
by their act of incorporation. They deny, also, that it is their
purpose to invade or violate any right or privileges of the complainants by the manner in which they shall use their road if
they are permitted to construct it."
The State court decided: 1st. That the privilege or monopoly
guaranteed to the complainants by the 38th section of their act
of incorporation, was that of transporting passengers between
Richmond and Washington; but that the legislature, by that
enactment, did nbt part with the power to authorize the construction of railroads between Richmond and Fredericksburg
for other purposes; that they had, therefore, the right to authorize the extension of respondents' road to the dock in the city of
Richmond, and consequently the court refused to enjoin the respondents from constructing their road. 2d. That a grant of a
franchise to one company to make a railroad or cana1, is not'

SUPREM1E

COURT.

The 'Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

infringed by authorizing another railroad or canal to be laid
across it, on paying such damages as may accrue to the first, in
consequence thereof. The injunction for this purpose was
therefore refused.
3d. "That if the Louisa Company shall hereafter use their
road by transporting passengers in violation of the rights guaranteed to complainants by the 38th section of their charter, the
remedy at law seems to be plain, easy, and adequate; if, however, it should, from any cause, prove to be inadequate, it may
be proper to interpose by injunction, and that will depend on
the facts which may then be made to appear."
The decree having dismissed the complainants bill, was "a
final decree or judgment';" and that decree having been affirmed
by the Court, of Appeals by their refusal to entertain an appeal;
and, moreover, the record showing that "there was drawn in
question the validity of" a statute and authority exercised under
" on the ground of their being repugnant"
the State of Virginia,"
to that clause of "the Constitution of the United States" which
forbids a State to pass "any law impairing the obligation of
contracts;" and "the decision of the court being in favor of
their validity," there can be no doubt of the jurisdiction of this
court to review the decision of the State court.
For this purpose, it will b6 necessary to set forth, at length,
the 38th section of the act of incorporation of the company
complainant, which contains the pledge or contract which their
bill claims to have been impaired or infringed by the act of 1848,
authorizing the respondents to continue their road from the
junction to the dock in Richmond. It is as follows :"And whereas the railroad authorized by this act will form a
part of the main northern and southern route between the city
of Richmond and the city of Washington, and the privilege of
transporting passengers on the same, and receiving the passage.
money, will, it is believed, be a strong inducement for individuals to subscribe for stock in the company, and the General Assembly considers it just and reasonable that those who embark
in the enterprise should not be hereafter deprived of that which
forms a chief inducement to the undertaking.
"38. Be it therefore enacted and declared, and the General
Assembly pledges itself to the said company, That, in the event
of the completion of the said railroad from the city of Richmond
to the town of Fredericksburg, within the time limited by this
act, the General Assembly will not, for the period of thirty
years fiom the completion of the said railroad, allow any other
railroad to be constructed between the city of Richmond and
the city of Washington, or for any portion of the said distance,
the probable effect of which would be to diminish the number

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

81

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

of passengers travelling between the one city and the other,
upon the railroad authorized by this act, or to compel the company, in order to retain such passengers, to reduce the passage.
money: Provided, however, That nothing herein contained shall
be so construed as to prevent the legislature, at any time here.
after, from authorizing the construction of a railroad between
the city of Richmond and the towns of Tappahannock or
Urbana, or to any intermediate points between the said city of
Richmond and the said towns: And provided,also, That nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent the General Assembly fron chartering any other company or companies to construct a railroad from Fredericksburg to the city of Washington.5
Two objections were made by counsel to the validity of this
act, on which we do not think it necessary to express an opinion.
They are: 1st. That one legislature cannot restrain,
control, or bargain away the power of future legislatures, to authorize public improvements for the benefit of the people. 2d.
That the grant made by this section is void for uncertailty,
being both unintelligible and impracticable, furnishing no standard by which any tribunal can determine when the grant is Violated and when not, according to its terms.
For the purposes of the present decision, we shall assume
that the legislature of Virginia had full power to make this
contract, and that the State is bound by it; and moreover, that
the franchise granted is sufficiently defined and practicable for
the court to determine its extent and limitations.
It is a settled rule of construction adopted by this-court, "that
public grants are to be construed strictly."
This act contains the grant of certain privileges by the public, to a private corporation, and in a matter where the public,
interest is concerned; and the rule of construction in all such
cases is now fully established to be this: "That any ambiguity
in the terms of the contract must operate against the corporation, and in favor of the public; and the corporatiba can claim
nothing but what is clearly given by the act." See Charles
River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 544. Construing this act with these principles in view, where do
we find that 'the legislature have contracted to part with" the
power of constructing other railroads, even between Richmond
and Fredericksbirg, for carrying coal or other freight? Much
less can they be said to have contracted, that no railroad con.
nected with the western part of the State, shall be suffered to
cross the complainants' road, or run parallel to it, in any portion
of its route. Such a contract cannot be elicited from the letter
or spirit of this section of the act.
On the contrary, the Preamble connected. with this sedtion

SUPREME COURT.
The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

shows that the complainants' road was expected to "form a part
of the main northern and southern route between the city of
Richmond and the city of Washington;" and the inducement
held out to those who should subscribe to its stock, was a monopoly "of transporting passengers" on this route, and this is
all that is pledged or guaranteed to them, or intended so to be,
by the act. It contains no pledge that the State of Virginia
will'not allow any other railroad to be constructed between
those points, or any portion of the distance for any purpose; but
only a road, " the probable effect of which would be to diminish
the number of passengers travelling between the one city and
the other, upon the railroad authorized by the act," or to compel
the conipany to reduce the-passage-money.
That the respondents will not be allowed to carry the passengers travelling between the city of Richmond and the city of
Wasbingtqn, is admitted; and they deny any intention of so
exercising their franchise as to interfere with the rights secured to
complainants. That the parties will differ widely as to the construction of the grant owing to the ambiguity created by the
use of the woxd "between," as it may affect the transportation
,of passengers travelling to or from the west, is more than probable. But on this application for an injunction against the con;
struction of respondents' road, the chancellor was not bound to
decide the question, by anticipation: And, although he may
liave thrown out some intimation as to his present opinion on
that question, he has very properly left it open for future decision, to be settled by a suit at law, or in equity, "upon the facts
of the case as they may then appear." But, however, probable
this dispute or contest may be, it is not for this court to anticipate it, and volunteer an opinion in advance.
The act of 1848, authorizing the extension of the complainants' road, is silent as to any grant of power to transport passengers, so as to interfere with the pledge given to complainants;
and it is sufficient for the decision of the case before us, to say,
that the grant of authority to respondents to extend their road
from the junction to the dock at "thecity of Richmond, does not,
per se, impair the obligation of the cont:act contained in the
38th section of complainants' charter. The conditions annexed
to the grant to respondents, by which the complainants were
enabled to defeat it, cannot affect the question in'any way. If
the 38th section of the act of incorporation or complainants does
not-restrain the legislature from constructing another railroad for
any purpose, parallel or near to the complainants', the respondents have a'right to proceed with the construction of their road,
and the State court was justified in refusing the injunction.
The counsel, very properly, have not insisted in their argument

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

83

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

in this court, on this point made in their bill, that the legislature
had no power to authorize the construction of one railroad across
another. The grant of a franchise is of no higher order, and confers no more sacred title, than a grant of land to an individual;
and, when the public necessities require it, the one, as well as the
other, may be taken for public purposes on making suitable
compensation; nor does such an exercise of the right of eminent
domain interfere with the inviolability of contracts. See West
River Bridge Company i. Dix, 6 How. 507.
Leaving, therefore, thb question, as to the proper construction
of the contract or rights guaranteed to the complainants, by this
section of their charter, to be settled when a proper case arises,
we are of opinion that the State court did not err 21 refusing to
enjoin respondents from constructing their road according to the
authority given them by the act of Assembly of 27th March, 1848,
and that said act does not impair the obligation of the contract
made with the complainants, in the 38th section of their act of
incorporation. The judgment of the Court of Appeals of Virginia is therefore affirmed, with costs.
Mr. Justice McLEAN, Mr. Justice WAYNE, and Mr. Justice
CURTIS dissented.'
Mr. Justice CURTIS.
I have been unable to agree with the majority of the court in
this case, and some of the principles on which a decision depends are of so much importance, as affecting legislation, that [
think it proper to state my opinion and the reasons on which it
rests.
That the 38th section of thd complainants' charter contains
a contract between the corporation and the State, the obligation
of which the latter can not impair by any law, must, I think, be
admitted. Whethef "An act for the extension of the Louisa
Railroad to the dock in the city of Richmond," does impair that
obligation, depends upon the interpretation which the contract
requires; and, inasmuch as it is the duty of this court to dtermine whether the obligation of the qontract has been impaired,
it is necessarily its duty to decide, what is the true interpretation
of the contract.
The 38th section, with its preamble, are as follows:
"And whereas the railroad authorized by this act will form a
part of the main northern and southern route be veen the city
of Richmond and the city of Washington, and tht. privilege of
transportingpassengers oa the same, and receiving the passagemoney, will, it is believed, be a strong inducement to individuais
to subscribe for stock in the company,.and the General Assembly

SUPREME

COURT.

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

considers it just and reasonable that those who embark in the
enterprise should not be hereafter deprived of that which forms
a chief inducement to the undertaking,
"38. Be it therefore enacted and declared,and the General Assembly pledges itself to th said company, That in the event of the
completion of the said railroad from the city of Richmond to
the town of Fredericksburg, within the time limited by this act,
the General Assembly will not, for the period of thirty years from
the completion of the said railroad, allow any other railroad to
be constructed between the city of Richmond and the city of
Washington, or for any portion of the said distance, the probable"
effect of which would be to diminish the number of passengers
travelling between the one city and the other, upon the railroad
authorized by this act, or to compel the company, in order to
retain such passengers, to reduce the passage-money: Provided, however, That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent the legislature, at any time hereafter, from
authorizing the construction of a railroad between the city of
Richmpnd and the towns of Tappahannock or Urbana, or to any
intermediate points between the said city of Richmond and the
said towns; Andprovided, also, That nothing herein contained
shall be construed to prevent the General Assembly from chartering any other company or companies t5 construct a railroad
from Fredericksburg to the city of Washington."
, The preamble in effect declares what general object the parties have in view, and the section makes known to what extent
and by what means that subject is to be accomplished. That
general object is to secure the corporation from being deprived
of the passenger travel on its railroad; and the means of prevention are, to prohibit for thirty years the existence of any
other road, the probable effect of which would be to diminish
tfie number of passengers travelling between Washington and
Richmond upon the railroad of the complainants.
The first question is, whether what is called the extension of
the Louisa road, is a railroad, the probable effect of which would
be to diminish those passengers; and this depends on what passengers are referred to in the contract.
It is maintained by the appellees that only passengerl travelling the distance between Washington and Richmond are intended; but this is not consistent either Vith the substantial
object of the parties, or with the language they have employed to
make kn6wn their agreement. " The privilege of transporting
passengers on the same and receiving the passage-money," and
protection from being "deprived of that which forms the chief inducement of the undertaking," would be but imperfectly secured,
if limited to one particular class of passengers only. Such a limit-

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

85

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

ation.inconsistent with the apparent object of the parties is not
to be engrafted on the contract unless clearly expressed. It is
said that the words "passengers travelling between the one
city and the other," contain this limitation, their meaning being
passengers travelling from one city to the other. The word
"between" in this clause admits of that interpretation, but does
not require it. That word may also designate any part of the
intermediate space, as well as the whole. It may be correctly saijr
that the complainants' railroad is between Richmond and
Washington, though it does not traverse the whole distance
from one of those cities to the other, and the' words which
immediately follow, certainly tend strongly to show that it
was in this last and more comprehensive sense the word "between" -was here used. The whole clause is, "passengers
travelling between one city and the other, 'upon th'e railroad
authorized by this act." But the-railroad there referred to, upon
the completion of which this contract was to take effect, was only
to be from Richmond to Fredericksburg, so that, strictly speaking, passengers could not travel to or from the city of Washington upon the railroad authorized by the act; they could thus pass
over only a part of the intermediate space between Washington
and Richmond. This clause therefore does not control' the
evident general intent of the parties to protect the passenger
travel, but rather tends to make that general intent more clear.
The question being whether the travellers referred to are only
those going the whole distance, and one part of the descripive
words, designating where they are travelling, being ambiguous,
and the other part which points out how they are travelling,
being clear, the result of the whole is to include all who travel
in the intermediate space between the two cities, upon the
complainants' railroad. And this construction is still further
strengthened by the stipulation that the State will not authorize anoth~road "to be constructed between the city of Washington and the city of Richmond, orfor any portion of the said dislance;" for if the object of parties was merely to protect the
enjoyment by the complainants of the tolls derivable from passengers going from one of those cities to the other, it is highly
improbable that the State would have agreed to this broad restriction. Construing the preamble and the section together, I
think it was the intention of the parties to secure to the complainants, for the period of thirty years, the exclusive enjoyment
of all the railroad passenger travel over every part of the line
between Washington and Richmond; and that the mode of
security agreed on by the parties was, that the. State should not
authorize the construction of any such railroad as might probably
interfere with that exclusive enjoyment
VOL. XIII.

8

86

SUPREME COURT.

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

. In coming to this conclusion I have not overlo6ked the
rule,
that grants from States to corporations of such exclusive privileges, are to be construed most strongly against the grantees.
But this rule, like its converse,fortius conmrd proferenten, which
applies to private grants, is the last to be resorted to, and never
to be relied upon, but when all other rules of exposition fail.
Bac. Max. reg. 3; 2 Bl. Com. 380; Love v. Pares, 13 East,
86. In Hindekoper's Lessee v. Douglass. 3 Cranch 70, Chief
Justice Marshall says: " This is a contract; and although a
State is a party it ought to be construed e.ccording to those -well
established principles which regulate contracts generally." A
grant such as is now in question, in consideration of the grantees
risking their capital in an untried enterp--ise, which, if successful will greatly promote the public good, in no proper sense confers a monopoly. It enables the grantees to enjoy, for a limited
time, what they may justly be considered as creating. It is in
substance and reality, as well as in legal effect, a contract, and
in my judgment it is the duly of the court to give it such a construction as will carry it into full effect; imposing on the public
no restriction, and no burden, not stipulated for, and depriving
the company of no advantage, which the contract, fairly constiued, gives. This is required by good faith; and to its demands
all tehnical rules, designed to helpthemindto correct conclusions,
must yield. Having come to the conclusion that the intention
of the parties to this contract was to secure to the complainants
exclusive enjoyment of all railroad passenger travel over every
part of the distance between Richmond and Washington for
thirty years, and that the means adopted to effect this object
was the promise of the State to authorize the construction of
no railroad which might probably interfere with that exclusive
enjoyment, the next inquiry is, whether the extension of the
Louisa Railroad to the dock in the city of Richmond would probably hav that effect. This act enables the Louisa Railroad
Company to extend their road, from its junction with the complainants' road, at a point about twenty.four miles from Richmond, to that city, and thus to make another railroad between
Richmond and that point on the complainants' road.
That this authority comes within that part of the restrictive
stipulation, which describes the route over which another railroad is not to be built, is clear; for it does authorize "another
railroad," "for a portion of the distance "between the cities
.of Richmond and Washington.'
But it is said that it does not
eorne -within, the residue of the restrictive clause, because its
probable effect will not be to diminish that passenger travel desined to be secured to the complainants. To this I cannot
.assent. 'The Louisa' Company, by their original charter, are

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

87

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

expres.s17 authorized to carry 1,assengers on their railroad, and
when tley are empowered by the act now in question to extend
their road, it is a necessary implication that the extension is for
the same uses, and subject to the same rights, and powers, and
privileges as the original road, to which it is to be annexed.
And accordingly we find, that by the 5th section of this act, the
legislature has prescribed a limit of tolls, as well for passengers
as for merchandise, coming from or going to another railroad
and passing over the whole length of the Louisa road and each
part of it, including the extension.
Passengers using the complainants' road between Richmond
and the junction, may be divided into three classes. Those
who travel the whole, or a part of the distance between Richmond and the junction, and do not go beyond the junction;
those who do go to, or come from points beyond the jifnction on
the complainants' road; and those who travel on the Louisao
road, beyond the junction, going west, or coming east. The
extension of the Louisa road is adapted to carry all these, and
by the act complained of, the Louisa Company is authorized to
construct a road to carry them. It may certainly be assumed,
that a corporation, created to conduct a particular business for
profit, will do all such business as it is its clear interest, and
within its authority to do, and which it was created for the very
purpose of doing. And if so, the effect of this extension must
be, to transport thereon a part of all these classes of passengers,
and thus to diminish the number of those same classes of passengers, who, at the time of the passage of the act in question,
used the complainants' road.
As to those passengers who do not use the Louisa road beyond the junction, I am at. a loss to perceive any reason why
they are not within the description of passenger travel designed
to be secured to the complainants; and if they are excluded
therefrom, I know of none who would be included, unless upon
the interpretation already considered and rejected, that the contract was designed to embrace only passengers travelling the
entire distance between Richmond and Washington. It is not
absolutely necessary to go any further to find that this extension act impairs the obligation of the contract, by authorizing
another road to be built, the probable effect of which would be,
to diminish the number of passengers travelling on the complainants' road between the junction and Richmond. But it is clear
to my mind, that the third class of passengers using the Louisa
road, are as much within this contract as any others. To explain
my views on this point, it is necessary to refer to a few dates.
The complainants were incorporated in February, 1834,
and their act of incorporation contained the compact now

88

SUPREME,COUJ

T.

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

relied on. Their road was completed and opened for use in
January, 1837. In February, 1836, an act was passed incorporating the stockholders of the Louisa. Railroad Company.
In December, 1838, the Louisa 'road Was opened for use to
the Louisa cohrt-house, and from that time. to March, 1848,
the passengers using the Louisa road, going to or coming from
Richmond, and points between that city and the juniction, passed
over the road of the complainants. In March, 1848, the complainants and the Louisa Company having differed concerning
the tolls to be charged by the former on passengers and
merchandise going to or coming from the Louisa road, the
legislature passed the " Act for the extension of the Louisa
Railroad," which contains the following section -" Be i
further enacted, that in case the Richmond, Fredericksburg,
and Potomac Railroad Company -shall, at the next annual
meeting of the stockholders, stipulate and agree, from and after
the expiration of the present contract with the Louisa Railroad
Company, to chray all passengers and freight coming from the
Louisa Railroad from the junction to the city of Richmond, at
the same rate per mile as may at the same time be c arged by the
Louisa Railroad Company on the same passengers and freight;
and shall also agree to carry all passengers and freight entered
at the city of -Richmond for any point on the Louisa Railroad,
at the same rate per mile as is charged at -the time for the same,
by the Louisa Railroad Company; and shall also agree to submit to the umpirage of some third perwon or persons, to be
.chosen by the said companies, the compensation -to the Richmond, Fredericksburg, and Potomac Railr6ad Company for collecting at the depots in Richmond the dues of the Louisa Railroad Company, and any other matters of controversy which may
arise between the said companies o wing to thie connection between them, then this act to be void, or else to remain in full
force." It will thus be seen that the passenger travel, which it
is the object of this act to take away from the complainants'
road, bad been de facto a part of its passenger travel between
Richmond and the junction for about tdn years. It is maintained that as the Louisa Railroad, from the junction westvard,
was the cause of the existence of this travel upon the complainant's road, between Richmond and the junction, the Louisa
corporation might be empowered to construct another road be.
tween those points for the purpose of doing that business. In
other words, that passenger travel actually existing on the complainant's road, may properly be diminished by the construction
of another road for a part of the distance between Richmond
and Washington, provided it be done by a party who at some
prior time was instrumnental in increasing the passeiiger travel;

DECEMBER T-ERM, 1851.

89

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

that we are to inquire whether by this new and competing road
any more is to be taken away than was brought by the corporation which builds it, and if not, then the competing road does
not diminish the number of -passengers, travelling on the complainants' road, within the fair meaning of this contract. I call
not give to this contract such a construction. It seems to me
to be at variance with its. express terms and with what must
have been within the contemplation of the parties when it was
entered into. The promise not to tuthorize any other railroad
between Washington. and Richmond, or for any part of that
distance, the probable effect of which would be to diminish the
number of passengers travelling on the complainants' railroad is
absolute and unqualified. It contains no reservation in favor
of parties who have been instrumental in bringing that travel
to th6 complainants' road. ' It extends over the period of thirty
years, and applies to the travel
-ctually
existing thereon during
every part of that period, to whatever causes its existence there
may be attributable. It must have been contemplated by the
parties that the number of travellers on the complainants' road
would increase during the long period of thirty years; it must
have been known to them that this increase would be likely to
arise, among other causes, from the increased number of passengers coing laterally to the line, in consequence of the construction of other railroads, as well as from increased facilities
of access by other means. They enter into a contract which by
its terms protects this increased travel during the Wvhole period,
and by whatever causes produced, just as much as it protects
the travel existing during the first month after the opening of
the road. How then can we engraft upon the contract an exception not found there, and say, that when it speaks generally
of passengers travelling upon the road, it does not mean passengers which another railroad corporation has brought there?
I am unable to see why not, as much as if a steamboat or stage
company had brought them. In my opinion this class of passengers on the complainants' road, are as truly within the.contract as any others; and a railroad, the object of which is to
take away this class' of passengers from the comllainants' road,
is one which the State has promised it would not authorize to
be built.
Parties may agree, not only on the substantial rights to be
protected, but on the particular mode of protecting them; and
if they do agree on a particular mode, it becomes a part of their
contract, which each party have a just right to have executed.
In this compact the parties have agreed ofl the mode of protection. It, is that the State will not authorize to be built any other
railroad,, which would probably have t'e effect fo diminish the
all

SUPREME COURT.
The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

number of passengers on the complainants' road. It is the
right to construct, and not the right to use which the contract..
restrains. To say'thatthe State may properly authorize a road
to be built, the purpose of which is to 2arry passengers, and
thus diminish the number of. passengers on the complainants'
road, but that the road thus authorized must not be used to the
injury of the complainants' rights, is to strike out of the contract the stipulation that such a road should not be authorized
to be built. The power of the State to enable a corporation to
build another road to carry merchandise only, seems to me to
have nothing to do with this question. W7hen the legislature
shall adjudge that the public convenience requires another
railroad there, to carry merchandise only, and that therefore the
power of eminent domain may be exercised to build it, and
when a company is found ready to accept such a charter, and
risk their funds in its construction, then .a case will arise under
the power of the legislature to authorize a road for the transportion of merchandise only. But in the law now in question the
legislature hau not so adjudged; no such charter has been granted, or accepted, and no such road built; but one which the State
is by its own prohaise restrained from authorizing. It seems
quite aside from the true inquiry, therefore, to urge that the
State might have empowered a company to make a railroad on
which to transport merchandise only; for it has not done so.
It has been suggested by one of the defandants' counsel, that
though the power of the legislature to enter into a compact for
some exclusive privileges is not denied, yet that the legislature had
not power to grant such privileges as are here claimed by the complainants, and therefore the State is not bound thereby. This
is rested not upon any express restriction on the powers of the
legislature, contained in the Constitution of Virginia, but upon
limitations resulting by necessary implication from the nature
of the delegated power confided by the people of that State to
their government. But if, as must be, and is admitted, it is one
of the powers incident to a sovereign State to make grants of
rights, corporeal and incorporeal, for the promotion of the public
good, it necessarily follows that the legislature must judge how
extensive the public good requires those rights to be. Whether
the State shall grant one acre of land, or one thousand acres;
whether it shall stipulate for the enjoyment of an incorporeal right,
in fee,-for life or years; whether that incorporeal right shall extend to one, or more subjects; and what shall be deemed -a fit
consideration for the grant in either case, is intrusted to the discretion of the legislative power, when that discretion is not re-restrained by the constitution under which it acts. This has
been the, interpretation by all courts, and the practice under all

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

91

The Richmond, &c. Railroad Co. v. The Louisa Railroad Co.

constitutions in the country so far as I know, and it seems to
me to be correct. See Piscataqua Bridge, v. New Hamp.
Bridge, 7 N. H. Rep. 35, and cases there cited; Enfield Bridge,
v. The Hart. & N. H. R. R. Co., 17 Conn. R. 40; Washington
Bridge v. State, 18 Conn. R. 53.
It remains to consider whether this court has jurisdiction to
reverse the decision of the State court.
The Court of Appeals having refused to entertain an appeal,
the superior Court of Chancery of the Richmond Circuit, was
the highest court of the State, to which the complainants could
carry the case ; and it is to the decision of that court we must look.
The questions are whether that court erroneously decided
against a right claimed by the complainants under the Constitution of the United States, and whether the bill was dismissed
by reason of that erroneous decision. The points decided are
set out with great clearness upon.the face of the decree. Their
substance is, that the construction of this extension road is law
fLl, the legislature having power to authorize it; that it may
lawfully be used for the transportation of passengers, who, but
for the existence of the Louisa road would never have come on
to the line of the Fredericksburg road; that whether the -Louisa
Company will use the extension for the transportation of any other
passengers, and thus infringe complainants' rights, does not appear; when the supposed case shall occur, it may be proper to
interfere by injunction, if, upon the facts of that case as they
shall appear, there is not a plain, adequate, and complete remedy
at law.
It is clear, then, that the Chancellor decided, against the
right claimed by* the complainants, under the Constitution,
that this extension should not be constructed. In my opinion,
this decision was erroneous. It is clear, also, that he decided
against their right, under the Constitution, to be protected in the
enjoyment of the passenger travel coming upon their road, in
consequence of the existence of the Louisa road. I think this
was also erroneous; By reason of these decisions the bill was
dismissed. They left nothing but a case of contingent damage,
which would not happen at all, if the Louisa Company should
carry only' the passengers coming upon the line of the complainants' railroad by reason of the existence of the Louisa road;
there was no certainty to what extent, or under which circumstances,- or whether at all, the complainants' rights would be
infringed.
Upon these views of the contract of the State, and the rights
of the complainants, it necessarily followed that the bill was to
be dismissed; for equity would not interfere in a case where the
defendants had valuable rights and powers, which they might not

SUPREME COURT.
Parish et al. v. Murphree et al.

exceed, and which they ought not to be restrained from exercising.
But on the other hand if the defendants had no such rights, or
powers; if they were claiming them and about to exercise them,
in a manner certain to inflict great and continuing injury on
the complainants, the extent of. which injury a court of law could
not fully ascertain, and could redress, even partially, only by a
great multiplicity of suits, then no court of chancery would
hesitate to grant relief. It is certain therefore that this bill was
dismissed, by reason of, what I consider, the erroneous -views
taken by the chancellor, of the rights claimed by the complainant under the Constitution of the United States.
It has been argued that by the local law of Virginia, contained in the general railroad act of that State, the chancellor had
not jurisdiction to grant an injunction to restrain the construction of the extension road. If the chancellor had so decided and
dismissed the bill, for that reason this court could not reverse
that decision. But he did not so decide; and I cannot infer
that he would so decide if this case were to be remanded, because I am of opinion that the statute relied on has no application to this case.
My opinion is that the-decree of the Superior Courtof Chancery
should be reversed and the case remanded: with such directions
as would secure to the complainants the remedy to which they
are entitled, to prevent the violation of rights, secured to them
by the Constitution of the United States.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Court of Appeals of the Commonwealth of Virginia,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court, that the
decree of the said Court of Appeals in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed with costs.

kIENRY

PARISH, DANIEL PARISH,

LEROY

AL WILEY, JOHN

R.

MAIISHALL, THOMAS P. NORRIS, AND THOMAS PARISH, MERCHANTS AND PARTNERS TRADING UNDER TEE FIRM AND STYLE OF
PARISH & Co., APPELLANTS, V. CALEB MURPHREE, ADMINISTRATOR OF GEORGE GOFFE, DECEASED; LOUISA C. GOFFE,
THOMAS WILLIAMS, JR., JOHN 11. HENDERSON, TRUSTEE, &C.,
MARTHA LUCY, ADDISON BOYKIN AND WIFE, ELIZABETH G.
GOFFE, CALVIN NORRIS, AND DAVID STRODER.

The Statute of Frauds in the State of Alabaina declares void conveyances made for
the pmrpose of hindering or defrauding creditors of their just debts.

