DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

9

The United States v. Pillerin et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said District Court in
this cause, be, and the same is hereby reversed and annulled,
and this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of the
claimant.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. ARmAND PILLERIN AND
OTHERS; THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. A. B. RomAN;
THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. CARLOS DE VILLEMONT'S
HEIRS AND OTHERS; THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JEAN
B. LABRANCHE'S HEIRS.
This court again decides, as in 9 How. 127, and 10 How. 609, that French grants of
land in Louisiana, made after the treaty of Fontainblcau, by which Louisiana was

ceded to Spain, are void, unless confirmed by the Spanish authorities before the
cession to the United States.
Butif there has been continued possession under the grants so as to lay the foundation
for presuming a confirmation by Spain, then the cases are not included within the acts
of 1824 and 1844, which look only to inchoate and equitable titles. The District
Court of the United States has therefore no jrisdictior

THESE f6ur cases were land cases, arising under the acts of
1824 and 1844, and were appeals from the District Court of the
United States, for Louisiana.
They were cases of French grants made after the treaty of
Fontainbleau by which Louisiana was ceded to Spain.

They were argued by 11r. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for
the United States, and by iMessrs. Janin and Taylor, for the appellees, excdpt the second wnich was argued by Mr. &u6.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
These four cases are all French grants made after the treaty
of Fontainbleau by which Louisiana was ceded to Spain. We
have already decided in the cases of The United States v.
Reynes, 9 How. 127, and The United States v. D'Auterive, 10
How. 607, that grants of this description are void, unless confirmed by the Spanish authorities before the cession to the
United States. In some of these cases evidence-has been offered

10

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Pillerin et' al.

of continued possession by the grantees of those claiming under
thpem, ever since the grants were made. But if there has been
such a continued possession, and acts of ownership over the land
as would lay the foundation for presuming a confirmation by
Spain of these grants, or of either of them or any portion of
either of them, such confirmation would a.mount to an absolute
title, and not an inchoate or imperfect one. For all of the grants
are absolute, or upon conditions subsequent; and if they had
been originally made by competent authority, would have passed
the legal title at the time, subject only to be divested by a breach
of the condition, in the cases where a condition subsequent is
annexed. Such a title, if afterwards recognized by the Spanish
authorities, is protected by the treaty, and is independent of any
legislation by Congress, and requires no proceeding in a court
of the United States to give it validity.
Titles of this description were not therefore embraced in the
acts of 1824 and 1844, under which these proceedings were
had. These laws were passed to enable persons who had only
an inchoate and equitable title, to obtaini an absolute and legal
one, by proceeding in the District Court in the manner prescribed.
And when the title under which the party claims, would be a
complete and absolute one, if granted by competent authority
or established by proof, the District, Courts have no jurisdiction
under the acts of Congress above mentioned to decide upon its
validity. The act 6f 1824 is very clear upon this point; and it
has always been so construed by this court.
Upon this ground the decree of the District Court in each of
these cases is erroneous and must be reversed and a mandate
issued directing the petitions to be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
But this decision is not to prejudice the rights of the respective petitioners or either of them in any suit where the absolute
and legal title to these lands or any portion of them may be in
question, or prevent them from showing if they can that the
French grant was recognized as valid or confirmed by the Spanish authorities before the treaty of St. Ildefonso.
Order.
These causes came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States, for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and were argued by counsel.
.On consideration whereof, it. is now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this court, that the decre, of the said District
Court in these causes, be, and the same is hereby reversed and
annulled, and that these causes be, and the same are hereby remanded to the said District Court with directions to dismiss the
petitions of the claimants for want of jurisdiction.

