SUPREME

12

COURT.

Morsell v. Hall.

that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause
be, and the game is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venire faeias de mavo.

JAMES S. MORSELL, SPECIAL BAIL OF WILLIAM SMIT11, PLAINTIFF
IN ERROR, V. HENRY A. HALL:

In pece.
Maryland, it is correct to take a recognizance of bail before two justices of the
Where

scire faefas was issued against special bail, v'ho pleaded two pleas, to the

first of which the plaintiff took issue, and demurred to the second i and the cause
went to trial upon that state of the-pleadings without a.joinder in demurrer i and
the court gave a general judgment for the plaintiff, tf is was not error.
The refusal or omission to join in demurrer was a waiver of the plea demurred to.
In this case, if the plea had been before the court, it vwas bad; because being a plea
that the note was paid before the original judgment, it called upon the party to
prove a second time what had been once settled b, a judgment. The omission

of the court to render a judgment upon the plea could not be assigned as error.
of a court upon a motion to enter an exoneretur of-bail is not the proper
subject of a writ of error.

A judgment

THis case was brought up, by writ of' error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Maryland.
.The facts were these,
In 1843, Henry A. Hall, a citizen of Maryland, brought a
suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for Maryland,
against William' Smith, a citizen of the State of Mississippi.
James S. Morsell was one of two persons who became jointly
and severally, special bail; anO the recognizance of bail was
taken before two justices of the peace for Calvert county.
. In April, 1847, Hall obtained a judgment, in consequence of
an opinion given by this court at the preceding term, which is
reported in 5 How. 96.
In May, 1847, he sued.out a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum
against Smith, which was returned "von es."
Ih November, 1847, he issued a scire facias against Morsell.
In April, 148, Morsell appeared and filed two pleas, viz.,
1. Nul tiel record. This plea was based upon the fact that the
recognizance of bail was taken before two jkistices of the peace.
In the argument before this court'this objection wvas not urged;
but as the opinion of the Circuit Court was thus established, it is
proper that a record of it should be made. The opinion was
short and may be inserted, viz.:
9"This mode of taking bail conforms to the long-established
practice of this court. An act of assembly of Maryland, passed

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

218

Morsell v. Hall.
in 1716, e. 28, s. 2, authorized this mode of taking bail in
suits in the then Provincial Court, which, like this court, had jurisdiction coextensive with the State. This court adopted the
practice, and has always since acted upon it.
"The written rule, No. 62, adopted in 1802, was not intended
to alter the previous practice of this court, and has never been
so construed. It is merely intended to confer the power upon
other State officers also, so as to increase the facilities of giving
bail where the defendant resided at a distance from the place of
holding the court; for, upon searching the records we find recognizances of bail taken soon after the adoption of the rule of
1802, before two justices of the peace ofthe State, in the same
manner with the recognizance now before the court. A precedent has been produced as far back as 1812, and a more careful
search would probably show precedents still earlier. The same
practice has continued without interruption ever since; and, indeed, any other rule would be oppressive to citizens of the State
who reside at a distance from the place of holding the court,
especially as they would most commonly be obliged to bring
their bail with them. In the case before us the recognizance of
bail having been taken and sanctioned according to the estalished rules and practice of this court, the judgment upon the
plea of )ndtiel record must be for the plaintiff."
2. That the promissory note filed as the cause of bail in the
action against Smith, was paid before the judgment was obtained
against Smith.

To the first of these pleas Hall too!. issue, and the judgment
of the court was as is above recorded,
To the second plea he demurred; and instead of joining in

demurrer, Morsell took no notice of it, but the judgment of the
court was for the plaintiffgenerally. A motion was made to enter
an e.xonerelur on the bail-piece, which was overuled.
A writ of error brought the case up to this court.
It -was argued by 11tr. Stewart and Alt. Johnson, for the plaiitiff in error and lIt. Dilany, for the defendant in error.
Tlhe counsel for the plaintiff in error did not press the objection founded upon the plea of val tiel record,as befoie remarked;
but contended that the judgment below should be reversed because the court did not decide apon the demurrer. Harris v.
Wall, 7 ltow. 693; Wheelwright v. Jutting, 7 Taunt. 304;
Thompson ?,. Mlacirone, 4 Dowl. & Ry. 619.
2. That if it be a3sumed that the court did decide upon the
demurrer in favor of the plaintiff below,, that such decision was
erroneous, because the debt, in reference to which the recogni-

214

.'

SUPREME

COURT.

-

Morsell v. Hall.

zance of bailwas entered into, is shown to have been discharged
before the institution of the original suit. Jackson v. Hassel,
Doug. 330; 6 D. & E. 363; Tetherington v. Golding, 7 D.
& E. 80; 2 Tidd's Practice, 992, 993; Clark v. Bradshaw, 1
East, 86; 4 Halst. 97.

.Mr. 'Dulany. The ground taken by the plaintiff in error in
his second. plea is, that, in the affidavit made by the defendant
in error, in his original suit against William' Smith,, he filed, as
cause of bail in said suit, a promissory note for the sum of
$2,678.90, which had been paid (he does not say by whom) before the judgment against Smith in that suit was obtained.
In support of the demurrer to this plea, it would seem sufficient to remark, that the plea relies upon a matter of defence
which, if it had been established, as it might have been if true, in
the principal action by Hall against William Smith, would ha ,e
been an effectual bar to the recovery of the verdict and judgment in that case.
It is a maxim of law that there can be no averment in pleading againist the validity of a record, therefore no matter of defence can be alleged which existed anterior to the recovery of
the judgment. 1 Chitty's Pleading, (Am. Edition,) 1844, p. 486,
and margin; Cardesa v. Iumes, 5 Serg. & Rawle, 65; McFarland v. Irwin, 8 Johns. Rep. 77; Moore z. Bowmaker, 2 Marsh.
392; 6 Taunt. 379.
Now the payment of the note, which is the ground of defence
apparently relied upon in the above plea, was anterior (as is expressly averred in the plea itself,) to the rendition of the judgment against Smith, and upon that judgment the scirefacias in
this case was issued against the plaintiff in error as special bail
of Smith. The plea must, therefore, be held bad, and the judgment- of the court below sustained, else there is great error in
the above-stated legal maxim kmd in the authorities by which
it is supported.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a scire facias brought by Hall against Morsell, as the
special bail of William Smith, in a suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Maryland, in which Hall
recovered a judgment, and proceeded by proper process to charge
the beIl.
Morsell appeared to the scire facias, and pleaded: 1st. NAd
tiel record; and 2dly. That the promissory note, filed as the cause
of bail in the action against Smith, was paid before the judgmerit was obtained against Smith. The plaintiff, in the court below, took issue on the first plea, and demurred to the. second;

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

215

Morsell v. Hall.

but the defendant did not join in the demurrer. The court gave
judgment for the plaintiff, upon which this writ of error is
brought.
The plaintiff in error alleges, that according to the record, the
case was decided on the first plea only, and that the demurrer
was not disposed of by the judgment-and they assign as
error, 1st. That no judgment was given on the second plea; and
2dly, if the c6urt consider it to be overruled by the general judgment for the plaintiff below, that then the judgment is erroneous,
because the plea was a good defence.
As relates to the first objection, the refusal or omission of the
plaintiff in error to join in demurrer was a waiver of the plea,
and there was no issue in law upon the second plea upon which
the Circuit Court was required to give judgment. Townsend
v. Jemison, 7 How. 719, 720.
And as concerns the second objection, if the plea was before
the court and not waived, it was no defence. For the right of
the defendant in error being established by the jildgment in his
favor, he was not bound to prove it over again in the scirefacias
against the bail. 1 Chit. Pl. (Am. Ed. of 1847) 469, 486, and
margin.
And consequently the omission to enter a formal judgment
upon it could not, under the act of Congress of 1789, c. 20, s. 32,
be assigned as error. The omission .would be a mere imperfection in form, not affecting the right of the cause or the matter in
law as they appear on the record. Roach v Hulings, 16 Pet.
319; 4 How. 164; Stockton and others v. Bishop, and Parks
v. Turner & Renshaw, decided at the present term.
The record, as transmited to this court, shows that a motion
was made, before the judgment on the scire facias to enter an
exoneretur of the bail upon ground similar to that taken in the
second plea; and that affidavits were filed in support of, and
also in opposition to the motion. And it has been urged, in
the argument here, that the Circuit Court erred in 'not granting
this motion.
A motion to enter an exoneretur of the bail is no defence to a
scire facias even if sufficient grounds were shown to support the
motion, (which we do not mean to say was the case in the present instance.) It is a collateral proceeding, not forming a legal
defence to the scire facias, but addressing itself to the equitable
discretion of the court, and founded upon its rules and practice:
Chit. P1. (Am. Ed. 1847,) 469. No writ of error will therefore lie
upon the decision of a motion of that kind ; because a writ of
error can bring up nothing but questions of law. It does not
bring up questions of equity arising out of the rules and practice of the courts. And the proceedings up.n th6 motion to

216

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. McCullagh et al.

discharge the bail form no part df the legal record in the
proceedings on the scirefacias and ought iot have been inserted
hi the record transmitted to this court.
There is no foundation therefore for any of the errors assigned
in this case, and the judgment of the Circuit Court must be
affirmed with costs.
Order.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court, of the United States, for the District of Maryland, and was argued by couinsel. On consideration whereof, it is, now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with cost and damages, at
the rate of six per centum per annum.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. WILLIAM AND ALEXANDER MCcCUTLAGH AND JAIES CORNAHAN, TRUSTEES OF THE
HEIRS OF ALEXANDER MCCULLAGH AND DAVID MOCALEB.
4

'he act of June 17, 1844, (5 Stat. at Large, 676,) reviving the act of 1844, gives
jurisdiction to the District Courts in cases only where the title set up to lands, under
grants from former governments, is equitable and inchoate, and where there is no
grant purporting to convey a legal title.
G:ants from the British government, as well as tho.e of France and Spain, are
equally within this restriction.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The opinion of the court sets out the facts of the case so far
as to raise the question of jurisdiction.
It was argted by Mr. Lawrence and Ar. Crittenden, (Attorney-General) for the United States, and by Messrs. Javfdn and
Taylor, for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case arises on a petition filed by the appellees in the
District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, praying that
their title to a certain tract of land containing one thousand
acres, situated on the Mississippi River, to the westward of Baton
Rouge, may be declared valid and confirmed. They claim title
under Alexander MWCullagh, Sen., who obtained a grant from
the British authorities while, they were in possession of the coun-

