244

SUPREME

COU4LT.

Campbell ot al. v. Doe.

We shall direct the deed from the complainants to the defendant to be cancelled, and that the defendant reconvey to the
complainants all the right, title, and interest acquired of him
from them in said land. And we further direct that an account
shall be taken in the court below of such profits as the defendant may have made from said ]and, and that he shall account
for the same to the complainants, subject to a deduction 'therefrom of the sum of $100 paid by the defendant to the complainants as the consideration of their transfer to him of their
interest' in the land, if the said profits exceed the said $100, and
if no profits have been made, then that the complainants repay
tc the defendant the aforesaid $100.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maine, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by thig
court, that the decree of the said Circuit C'ourt in this cause be,
snd the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that thi cause
be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
With directions for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

JOHN CAMPBELL, WILLIAM ELLISON, GEORGE STEECE, AND HIRAM CAMPBELL, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN DOE, ex dem.
THE TRUSTEES AND TREASURER OF -ORIGINAL SURVEYED TOWN-

SHIP, No. 1, IN RANGE No. 19, &c.
On the 20th of May, 1826, Congress passed an act (4 Stat. at Large. 179,) giving
school lands to such townships, in the -arious land districts of the United btates,

as had not been before provided ,-for, which were to le selected for such townships
by the Secretary of the Treasury, out of any unappropriated public lands within
the land district where the township was situated for which the selection wai
made.

The Secretary of the Treasury, through the Land-Office, directed the Registers to
make selections an return lists thereof, to be submitted to him for his approbation.
Under this direction, the land in question was selected anti reserved from sale.
Afterwards, the Register withdrew'the selection, by auLthority of the Commissioner
of the Land-Office, and permitted a person to enter and take it up, this person
knowing the circumstances under which it had been reserved from sale.
Finally, the Secretary of the Treasury selected the land in question, under the authority given to l1im by the act of 1826.
This selection was good, and conferred a title, overrnlihg the intermediate entry.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

245

Campbell et al. v. Doe.

State of Ohio, by a writ of error, issued lindei the 25th section
of thbi Judiciary Act.
The facts are 'all stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. MD1arsh, for the plaintiffs in error, and
Mfr. V nton, for the defendant in error.

Mr. 3arsh, for the plaintiffs in error, contended that the entry
of Hamilton was legal; that the reservation from sale had been
withdrawn, and 'consequently the land was open; that, if the
Secretary of The Treasury must be supposed to have sanctioned
the first order, reserving the land for sale, so he must be sup*'.
posed equally to have sanctioned the second order, authorizing
the withdrawal of the reservation; that, if Hamilton's entry
was legal, the subsequent selection of the same lapd by the
Secretary was void, because the act of Congress only authorized him to select unappropriated land, and This was not so;
that there was no fraud, or any mistake, on the part of the Register or of Hamilton.
.Mrt. Vinton, for the defendant in error, contended, 1st. That the selection of the land in controversy, as school
land, by the Sicretary of the Treasury, on the 9th of January,
1834, vested the legal title thereof in the State of Ohio. See
act of the 20th of May, 1826, 4 Stat. at Large, 179, and act of
the 3d of March, 1803, 2 Stat. at Large, 225.
2d. The prior sale to Hamilton and certificate of purchase
cannot avail him, for several reasons:
1. Because the title thus vested in the State overreaches his
certificate, and reaches back to the date of the original selection
of the land for schools, and the report of it, as such, to the
Commissioner of the General Land-Office. Lessee of Ham.
rond, v. W"arfield, 2 Harr. & Johns. Rep. 158; 17 Ohio Rep.
287, 288.
It will be insisted that this consequence results from the fact,that the duty of making the selections conferred on the Secretary, as incident to its proper discharge, a discretion, to be exercised by him in a manner most beneficial to the objects of the
grant, consistent with a due regard to the interests of the United
States; and that, to exercise this discretion wisely and intelligibly, he must have at his command the means of ascertaining
every fact necessary to a proper selection; such, for example, as
the ascertainment of the quality of the land, which could only
be done through subordinate agencies. And thai, therefore, the
selection of the land, under the circular of the 24th of May,
1826, and the report of it, by the Register, to the General Land21

*

246

SUPREME COURT.
Campbell et al. v. Doe.

Office, by direction of the Secretary, for his decision thereon,
being necessary and proper preliminary steps towards carrying
the act into exetution, had the effect in law to sever the land,
thus selected and reported, from the mass of the public lands,
until his decision was had; and, when approved by him, the
whole proceeding was in law one act, and constituted the selection by the Secretary required by the act of the 20th of May,
1826.
That the land was, from the commencement of the act of
selection, severed from the mass of public lands. See Wilcox v.
Jackson, 13 Pet. 513.
2. Because, whether the title of the State overreaches the
sale to Hamilton or not, his purchase was void, for the reason
that the land was at the time withheld from sale, and could not
be entered by him.
In support of this position, it will be insisted that the selection and report of the land to the General Land-Office, being
made by the direction of the Secretary, for his decision thereon,
the question of its approval was in law pending before him, and
under his consideration until his decision should be made;
which pending consideration necessarily, for the time being,
suspended the sale of the lands selected; and, whether this be
so or not, the sale was expressly prohibited by the .circular of
the,30th of August, 1832, until the Register should be officially
advised of the approval or rejection of the selection by the
Secretary.
It will be claimed, also, that the power of reservation from
sale, in such case, is incident to the proper execution of the act
of May 20, 1826, making the grant of these school lands, and is
also incident to the general supervisory power of the Secretary
over the public lands given by the act of the 25th of April, 1812,
entitled An act for the establishment of a General Land-Office
n the Department of the Treasury," which act Was at that time
in force. 2 Stat. at Large, 716.
It will also be further insisted that, though the selection of
these school -lands was specially intrusted to the Secretary of
the Treasury, by the law granting them, and required his express
approval, yet the circulars of the 24th of May, 1826, and the
30th of August, 1832, issued by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, prescribing the mode cf selection and withdrawing the selected lands from sale, will, in the absence of
proof to the contrary, be presumed to have been issued under
the direction and sanction of the Secretary. Wilcox v. Jackson's Lessee, 13 Pet. 512.
This, however, is not a conclusive presumption of law, but
belongs to that class of .presumptions which may be rebut-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Campbell et al.

t.

, 247

Doe.

ted by proof. 1 Greenleaf's Evidence, sects. 33 and 34, page
42.
And where the facts of a case are agreed, this court will apply
and has applied to those facts the presumptions of law belonging to this class. Doddridge v. Thompson, 9 Wheat. 483; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 PeL 512, 513.
3d. The sale to Hamilton was void because the letter of- the
Commissioner of the General Land-Office of the date of the 19th
of March, 1833, giving to the register permission to withdraw
the selection and make another in its stead, was written without
authority from the Secretary of the Treasury. That it was. so,
is shown by the facts that the said Commissioner subsequently
recommended the approval of said selection to the Secretary,
who, on appeal to him, confirmed it with a full knowledge of the
sale to Hamilton, of said. letter of the 19th of March, 1833, and
of all the correspondence relating to the *aid tract of land existing at that date; which facts rebut thezpresumption that might
otherwise arise that said letter was written by authority. 1
Greenleaf's Ev. sects. 33 and 34.
4th. Because, without the express permission of the Secretary,
the Commissioner had no more authority to reject a selection
duly made and reported, than he had to confirm it. 17 Ohio,
Rep. 288.
5th. Because, if said letter of the 19th of l&areh, 1833, were
written by authority of the Secretary, the Register did not comply with its directions, inasmuch as he withdrew the selection
theretofore made, and made no other in its stead, and thus, as
far as in him lay, defeated the grant altogether.
Alr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action 6f ejectment is here on a writ of error to the Sapreme Court of Ohio, under the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act. The plaintiffs in error claifn title to a quarter section of
land under an entry made with the Register of the Land-Office;
the defendants claim the same as reserved for school purposes.
As both paud ies claim under an adu of Congress, either, is entitled
to a writ of error to have the judgment against the right asserted,
revised in this court.
By the act of the 20th of May, 1826, Congress gave school
lands to such townships and fractional townships in the land
districts of the United States as had not been provided for, to
be selected within such townships by the Secretary of the Treasury, out of any unappropriated public lands within the land
district in which the township was situated. Under that act,
fractional township No. '1, range No. 19, of the Chillicothe land
district of Ohio, was entitled to 160 acres of land.

248

SUPREME

COURT.'

Campbell et al. v. Doe.

On the 24th of the same month the-Treasury Department issued a circular, through the General Land-Office, to the Registers
of the different lkid districts, directing them to make selections of the lands granted and return a list to the General
Land-Office. for the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury.
The Register of the Chillicothe land di3trict caused to be selected the south-east quarter of section No. 15, township 2, range
18, the land now in controversy. A return of this selection was
made to the General Land-Qffice the 23d October, 1828. This
return contained other tracts not made as required by the law,
and consequently the list Was returned to the Register for correction. The errors being corrected the list was again returned
to the General Land-Office. - But afterwards, in 1832, a circular
from the Land-Office; was directed to the Register, accompanied
by a printed form and directions so -that the returns of lands
selected should be uniform. The tracts selected were iequired to
be noted and reserved from sale. Where good land could not
be procured in the township, the selection was authorized to be
made in the neatest adjacent tewnship which contained good
land. The land above selected is nof in township No. 1,
range No. 19,- nor in the next adjacent township; but in the
nearest adjacent township in which good land could be procured..
In pursuance of the above instruction, tire Register withheld
the land from-sale. * On the 7th March, 1.833, he informed the
Commissioner that "some of the selections which he had reported were half quarter secti6ns, and that others did not lie
"either in the township or in the nearest adjacent township
where good land exists,". "which are not in accordance with the
general rules laid down in the Commissioner's last circular;" and
he says, "I have withheld from sale all the lands selected which
were embraced in my two reports," and he inquires whether the
fact of his having reported them takes them out of the general
rule prescribed for his government; and whether he should consider all the selections heretofore made, and have them made in
exact conformity to the instructions."
In answer to the above the Commissioner says, "on the subject
of the school lands, selected by you in 1831, 1 have to state
that, as there has been no action of the department on these selections, you are at liberty fo withdraw them and select other'
lands in their stead, in conformity to my circular of the 30t
August,
Under 1832."
this letter, it seems, the Register permitted Hamilton
to enter the land in controversy; but no other school land was
selected in lieu of it. On this entry being made the school trus-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

249

Campbell et al. v. Doe.

tees of the township appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury,
against the sale of the land, and claimed the original selection.
And the same being laid before the Secretary, he sanctioned and
confirmed the original selection. This was done the 9th January, 1834.
The decision. of this case must depend upon the validity of
Hamilton's entry. He had full notice that the quarter section had
been selected for schooi purposes, and was reserved from sale.
This information was given him by the Register on his first application to enter it. He then endeavored to purchase it from
the trustees. The selection' of that tract was made, at first, as
the law required, though other tracts on the same list had not
been so selected.
The entry by Hamilton may have been permitted by the Register, throughinadvertence or mistake. This supposition is at
least as probable, and indeed more so, than that he withdrew
the selection and failed in his duty to select atiother tract in place
of it. But, in whatever light this may be viewed, we are clear,
that the Secretary of the Treasury had the power, under the act
of Congress, to make the selection; and his decision, declaring
the entry of Hamilton invalid, was, under the circumstances,
conclusive. This tract, selected by the Secretary under the act
of 1826, "is held by the same tenure, as provided in the second
section of that act, and upon the same terms for the support of
schools, in such township, as section number sixteen is held."
By the act of the 3d Mlarch, 1803, it is declared that ands appropriated for schools, shall be vested in the legislature of the
State in trust &c.; and in the same act section number sixteen,
in each township, was designated for school purposes. If,
theiefore the quarter section in dispute was legally selected for school
purposes, the legal title became vested in the Legislature of
Ohio.
The general duties of the Commissioner of the General LandOffice are required to be performed "under the direction of the
head of the Treasury Department." And where a duty is especially enjoined on the Secretary of the Treasury, although he
may perform it through the Commissioner of the General LandOffice, who may well be presumed to act under his authority
where the contrary does not appear; yet where the Secretary
has interposed and decided the matter, as in the case under consideration, his decision must be con-idered as the only one under
the law: So far then, as the sanc'tion of the Secretary was given
to the appropriation of the land in dispute, to s6hool purposes,
.it
must be considered as a valid appropriation.
This view imposes no hardship on -Hamilton, as he had no °ice
of the tract selected, and his repeated attempts to purchase the

250

SUPREME COURT.
Glenn et al. v. The United States.

same land cannot be favorably considered by the court. Under
the circumstances, no right became vested in him, by reason of
his entry of the land, which could be regarded or enforced by a
court of equity. The judgment of the State court is, therefore,
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, and was
argued by counsel;' On consideration waereof, it is now here
ordered, and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause, be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

JOHN GLENN AND CHARLES A. THRUSTOx, APPELLANTS, V. THE
UNITED STATES.
In 1796, when Delassus xvas commandant of the port of New Madrid, he exercised
the powers of sub-delegate, and had authority, unde, the instructions of the Governor-General of Louisiana, to make conditional grants of land.
He made a grant to Clamorgan, who stipulated, upon his part, that he would introduce a colony from -Canada, for the purpose of cultivating hemp and making
cordage.
This obligation he entirely failed to perform.
By the laws'and ordinances of the Spanish colonial government, (which this court is
bound, under the act of 1844, to adopt, as one of their rules of decision,) this condition had to be performed before Clamorgan could become possessed of a perfect
title.
The difference between this case and that of Arredondo explained.
If the-Spanish Governor would have refused to complete the title, this court, acting
under the laws of Congress, must also decline to confirm it.
After the cession of the province of Louisiana to the United States, Clamorgan
could not legally have takeu any steps to fulfil his conditidn. He was forbidden
by law. By the treaty of cession, no particular time was allowed for grantees to
complete their imperfect grants. It was left to the political department of the
government, and Congress accordingly acted upon the subject.
The 3d day of March, 1804, was the time fixed by Congress, and the grant must nbw
be judged of, as-it stood upon that day.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the State of Arkansas.
Glenn and Thruston, the appellants, filed a. petition in the
District Court of Arkansas, 'on the 24th of January, 1846, in
virtue of the act of 1824, as revived by the act of 1844, claiming
confirmation of a concession of a large trazt of country which lies
partly in Arkansas and partly in. Missouri, consisting of nearly
half a million of acres of land and known as the Clamorgan
grant.

