150

SUPREME COURT.
Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

Order.
,This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages,
it the rate of six per centuam per annum.

JOHN S. BUCKINGHAM ANI. MARK BUCKINGHIAm, APPELLANTS, V.
NATHANIEL C. MCLAz.N, ASSIGNEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF JOHN
MAHARD, JR.
Where a defehdant in error or an appellee wishes to have a case dismissed becaiso
no citation has been served upon him, his counsel shotid give notice of the motion
when his appearance is entered, or at the same term ; and also that his appearance is
entered for that purpose. A general appearance is a waiver of the want of notice.
An appeal in equity brings up all the matters which were decided in the circuit court
to the prejudice of the appellant; including a prior decree of that court from which
an appeal was then taken, but which appeal was dismissed under the rules of this
court.
BEFORE this case was reaehed upon the docket, a motion was
made to dismiss it upon the ground that the appellee had not
been served with a citation, and also upon another ground,
'which is stated in the following opinion of tie court as pronounced by Mr. Justice McLean.

Mr. Justice McLEAN.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Ohio District,
and a motion is made to dismiss it on two grounds.
1. Because no-citation has been issued.
2. "Because the appeal is from the decree of 1848 .and interlocutory decrees, whereas all the matters contested by the appellants were finally adjudicated and decreed at the November
term, 1846, from which decree an appeal was taken which was
dismissed by this court, and no appeal has been since taken."
At November term, 1846, a decree was entered against the
appellants. In January term, 1847, an appeal was prayed by
them from that decree, which was granted, and bond was given.
But the appellants failing to file the record and docket the cause
in this court, as required by the rules, it was, on motion of the
appellee's counsel docketed and dismissed at December term,
1847. At the same term a motion was made to reinstate the
cause upon the dock-.t; which motion was overfuled.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

151

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

Afterward, at October term, 1849, the appellants prayed an
appeal from the final decree made at the November term, 1848,
which was granted, and that is the appeal which is now pending.
It seems that no notice of this appeal has been served on the
appellee, and on that ground the motion to dismiss is made. A
general appearance was entered by the counsel for the appellee
at December term, 1850, but the motion to dismiss was not filed
until February, 1852. In the case of McDonough v. Millaudon,
3 How. 707, a motion was made to dismiss the cause on the
ground that the clerk of the Supreme Court of Louisiana' issued
the writ of error, and signed the citation; and) the court said,
"this case has been here for two terms; a writ of certiora04
has been sent down, at the instance of the defendant in error, in
whose behalf the motion is made, to complete the record; he
now moves to dismiss for the first time, and we think he comes
too late."
The object of a citation on a writ of error or an appeal is to
give notice of the removal of the cause, and such notice may be
waived by entering a general appearance by counsel. Where
an appearance is entered, the objection that notice has not been
given is a mere technicality, and the party availing himself of it,
should, at the first term he appears, give notice of the motion to
dismiss, and that his appearance is entered for that purpose. A
delay to give this notice may throw the other party off his guard,
until the limitation of the writ of error or the appeal may have;
expired. In this case we think the motion is made too late.,
The record appeal was regularly taken-and perfected. By
this appeal all the questions are brought before Us, which were
decided to the prejudice of the appellants. From the nature of
the controversy until the final deciee was entered, as between
all the parties, the case could not, properly, be broiught before
this court. [he motion to dismiss is overruled.
When the case was called in its regular order, it was argued,
and the following is a report of it.

JOHN S. BUCKINGHAI
V. -NATHANIEL C.
JOHN MLLHAMRD, JR.

AND MARK BUCKINGHAuI, APPELLANTS,
IMCLrEAN, ASSIGNEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF

Where a bill in chancery was filed
by the assignee of a bankrupt, claiming certain
chares of bank stock, the same.being also claimed by the bank and by other persons
who were all made defendants, and the answer of the bank set forth apparently Valid
titles to the stock, which were not impeached by the complainant in the subsequent
proceedings in the cause, nor impeached by the other defendants, the circuit courz
decreed correctly in confirming the title of the bank.

152

SUPREME COUET.
Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

A power of attorney to confess a judgment is a security within the second section of
the Bankrupt Act, 5 Stat. at Large, 442.
And this security is void if given by the debtor in contemplation of bankruptcy. But
by these terms is meant an act of bankruptcy on an application byhimself to be
decreed a bankrupt, and not a mere state of'insolvency.
In this case there is evidence enough to show that the debtor contemplated a legal
bankruptcy when the power of attorney was given,
It is not usury in a bank which has power by itq charter to deal in exchange, to
charge the market rates of exchange upon time bills.

Tnis was an appeal frkom the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio, sitting as a court of equity.
On the 27th of May, 1842, John Mahard, Jr., filed his peti'tion in bankruptcy, and on the 20th of July, 1842, was declared
a bankrupt.
Nathaniel C. McLean was appointed his assignee in bankruptcy.
John Mahard had been transacting business at Cincinnati
with his brother, William Mahard, under the firm of J. & W.
Mahard, aind at New Orleans, under the firm of Mahard &
Brother.
On the 12th of August, 1842, William Mahard filed his petition in bankruptcy.
On the 5th of January, 1843, McLean filed his bill in the
Circuit Court against a great number of persons, who had outstanding liens on the property of John Mahard, Jr., at the time
of his filing his petition in bankruptcy. They were,
The President, Directors, and Company of the Lafayette Bank
of Cincinnati; the President, Directors, and Company of the
Northern Bank of Kentucky; Andrew Johnson; John S. Buckingham;, Mark Buckinglim; the Ohio Life Insurance and
Trust Company; the President, Directors, and Company of the
Bank of the United States, incorporated by the State of Pennsylvania; the President, Directors, and Company of the Commercial Bank of Cincinnati; the President, Directors, and Company of the Franklin Bank of Cincinnati; James Dundas, Mordecai D. Lewis, Samuel W. Jones, Robert L. Pitfield, and
Robert Howell, assignees, &c.; John Mahard, Sen., John
McLaughlin, George Mfilne, and James Xeith, partners, doing
'business in the firm name of Geo. Milne & Co., Charles B. Dyer,
Frederick Trow, John C. Avery, late sherAff, and John H. Gerard,
present sheriff of Hamilton county.
The assignee, McLean, enjoined proceedings in the State
courts where the parties were prosecuting their several liens,
and brought all matters connected with the bankrupts into the
Circuit Court of the United States.
In the progress of the cause, a number of collateral matters
were brought into the case; but the facts upon which the ques.
fions arose before this 6ourt are stated in -the opinioij, to which
the reader is referred.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

It was argued by 1Ir. Read, for the Buckinghams, and by

ir. Chase and Mlr. Rockwell, for the Lafayette Bank, the
Franklin Bank of Cincinnati, and the Northern Bank of Kentucky. The interest of these banks was drawn in question by
the third point raised by 11ir. Bead, who contended that the
notes, bills and mortgages held by them, were void on account
of usury.
Mir. Bead made the following points, viz.:
1st. The forty-nine shares of stock should have been decreed
to the Buckinghams, and not to the bank.
2d. That the judgment, execution, and levy'of the Buckinghams were valid; the fruits of the sale should have been decreed
to them, and not to the assignee as general assets.
3d. That the. notes, bills, and mortgages of the said banks.
were void, having been discounted at higher rates of interest
than were permitted by their charters, and the mortgages were
given to secure such discounts or notes substituted therefor.
1. As to the forty-nine shares of bank stock.
In her answer, the Lafayette Bank contends that she held
'this stock of John Mahard as collateral security to pay the
amount of $15,000, secured by mortgage on real estate, and also
on general lien under her charter as security for general debts.
The bank, before the master, claimed the right to apply the
stock to pay unsecured debts under her charter lien.
On the 13th of April, 1842, on the same piece of paper on
which the stock had been assigned to the bank, was an assignment to Buckingham in these words:
" The forty-nine shares of the stock are transferred to John S.
Buckingham, for value received."
Point. A party having a lien or other interest in property,
standing by and permitting it to -be sold without notice or assenting to its sale, loses all right in saidI property.
2. That if general creditors have an ipterest in such property,
and the first lien-holder parts with his lien by consenting to its,
transfer, and such transfer is void by operation of law, the lien
of the first holder does not reattach, but the property stands as
general assets for the benefit of all creditors.
2d. As to the $1,300 made on Buckingham's execution.
It may be laid out of view that the Mahards. did any act in
creating liens or a cognovit, in contemplation of bankruptcy, as
all th- parties in their answers deny it.
On the 7th of April, 1842, John Mahard executed a power
of attorney to confess judgment in favor of John S. Buckingham for $14,000, which was done the next day in the Supreme
Court of the State of Ohio. Execution issued 20th of April,
1842; levy made upon real estate and certain personal property;
which latter sold for $1,300.

15 t

SUPREME COURT.
Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

John Mahard petitioned to be declared a bankrupt, 27th May,
1842.
. Cognovit and judgment within two months prior to petition,
held, therefore, void under the second section of the bankrupt
act.
Point 1st. The second section of the Bankrupt act does not
embrace in its terms, or by necessary implication, powers of
attorney to bond fide creditors to confess judgment. Bankrupt
act, 19th August, 1841.
2d. The power of attorney gives no lien or preference, but the
judgments, by operation of law, and not the act of the bankrupt,
In the matter of Allen, 5 Law Rep. 362; Wakeman v. Hoyt,
5 Law Rep. 309; Downer et al. v. Brackett et al., 5 Law Rep.
394 ; 1 Bac. Ab. 628 ; Foster, ex parte, 5 Law Rep. 55.
3d. As to the invalidity of'notes, bills, and mortgages of the
banks, it is conceded that these banks could deal in exchange at
fair and usual rates; but their charters did not authorize them
to discount, by way of loan, at higher rates of interest than six
per cent. in advance. If a bank or moneyed corporation exceeds its powers in exacting interest on discounts and loans at
higher rates than permitted by their charter, all notes thus discounted and loans made are void, and all r-iortgages and pledges
to secure payment are void also. Bank of Chillicothe v. Paddieford et al. 8 Ohio R. 257; Creed v. Commercial Bank,
11 Ohio R. 493; Miami Exporting Co. v. Clark, 13 Ohio,
R. 18.
Banks may charge fair rate of exchange. Andrews v. Pond,
13 Peters, 65.
Difference between sale and a discount. Sale at any price,
discount only at legal rates. A loan, if seller bound to pay if
obligee does not. Comyn on Usury, Add. 287, 5 Law Lib.;
Rex v. Ridge, 4 Price, 50; 2 Eng. Ex. Rep. 30; Byles on Bills,
,72; Lee, ex parte, 1 Peere Wins.'782; Eden on Bankruptcy,
145; 7 Wend. 578; Ketchum v. barber, 4 Hill, 244; Rapelye .
Anderson, 4 Hill, 476; Rice v. Mather, 3 Wend. 62; Yankey v.
Lockheart, 4 J. J. Marshall, 276; Knights v. Putnam, 3 Pick.
184, 187;, 12 Pick. 565; 4 Mass. 156; Powell v. Waters,
17 Johns. R. 176; 15 Johns. 44; 7 Wend. 569; 4 Hill, 476;
2 Johns.. Cases, 60; 3 Johns. Cases, 66; 3 McCord, 365; 2
Cowen, 675; 7 Peters, 103, 109; .3 Cranchi, 180; 1 Peters, 37;
4 Peters, 205; 2 Strange, 1243; 7 Wend. 633, 642; 8 Cowen,
669.
Lex loci, or plade of performance to fix rate. Story on
Bills, sect. 148.
Excessive exchange or commission On collection, or discounting depreciated paper, whereby higher rates than legal interest

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

155

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

is obtained, will be deemed usurious. Hewson, ex parte, 1
Madd. 112; 7 Wend. 581-582; 13 Johns.-47; 1 Leigh, N. P.,
482; 4 Hill, 219, 229; Comyn on Usury, 134.
Exchange charged on bill payable in a place where the money
will be as valuable as at place of discount, a shift or device to
exact over six per cent., charge o attorneys' fees, &c. Miami
Ex. Co. v. Clark, 13 Ohio R. 1; Chitty on Bills, 89, (a), note;
State v. Taylor, 10 Ohio R. 381 ; Shelton v. Gill, 11 Ohio R.
418; Spaulding v. Bank of Muskingum, 12 Ohio R. 544; Creed
v. Com. Bank, 11 Ohio, 495.
Discounter must show the charge to be well founded; expense of collecting compensated by way of exchange ;.the usage
of banks cannot control the law. 8 Bac. Ab. 424; Bank United
States v. Davis, 2 Hill, 452; 13 Johns. 47; 16 Johns. 375; 9
Mass. 49; 3 Bos. & Pal. 154.
True differences only are to be charged. Merritt v. Benton,
10 Wend. 116; 2 Hill, 640; 2 Hill, 452; 7 Wend. 581.
No such thing as time exchange. McCullough, "Exchange;"
Story on Bills, p. 481.
Discounted in depreciated paper, to be paid in silver, usurious. United States Bank v. Owens, 2 Peters, 527; United
States Bank v. Wraggener, 9 Peters, 378; 1 Peters, 44; 2 Harris
& Gill, 13; 1 J. J. Marshall, 47; 2 Hill, 499; 1 Hall, 519.
Unreasonable charge for commission, or improbable difference
of exchange. Hine v. Handy, 1 Johns. Ch. 6; Dunham v. Dey,
13 Johns. 47; 7 Wend. 581-582; 16 Johns. 375.
Risk of making place of payment only to be charged as exch"nge. 4 Hill, 221; 4 Hill, 250 ; 2 Paige, 272, 275.
Bank's charge according to length of time an artifice. 4 Hill,
480; 10 Ohio R. 381.
Mortgages in Ohio but a security. Lessee of Perkins v.
Dibble, 10 Ohio R. 439; Moore v. Burnet, 11 Ohio R. 341;
4 Kent, Corn. 195, 5th ed.; 21 Wend. 485; 26 Wend. 555.
Usury defeats a mortgage. 3 Pow. on Mort. 896, note.
Substituted securities void, taint of usury follows. Chit. on
Bills, 89; Walker v. Bank of Washington, 3 How. 72.
All the discounts of thesz banks were on time bills; sight
bills at par; exchange from 11 to 2 per cent.
31r. Chase and X2r. Bockwell made the following points.
I. The mortgage to the Lafayette Bank was made more
than two months before the filing of the bankrupt petition, and
was not made in contemplation of bankruptcy, in violation of
the provisions of the Bankrupt act.
Answer of Lafayette Bank, p. 48: " And these respondents,
further answering, deny that said mortgage was executed by

156

SUPREME

COURT.

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

said 'John in contemplation of bankruptcy, or that he was known
or considered to be in a state of insolvency ; but these respondents had good reason to believe, and did believe, that said John
was solvent, and fully able to pay all his debts, and therefore
they agreed to give, and did give him time to enable him-the
more readily to pay the said debts then due to these respondents. Respondents insist that said John Mahard, Jr., did not
contemplate bankruptcy at the time of the execution of said
mortgage, but that he executed and delivered the same in good
faith, to secure a bonafide debt then due to these respondents as
aforesaid.
" And these respondents further answering, state, that said
mortgage was executed, delivered, and recorded more than sixty
days before the filing of said petition by said John Mahard,-Jr.,
for the benefit of said act, and that the transaction between said
Mahard and these respondents was in good faith; and if the
said John Mahard (which they deny) had it in contemplation,
at the time of executing said mortgage, to take the benefit of
said act, -these respondents had no notice of such intention,
either express or implied, and their mortgage is not affected by
any subsequent proceedings in bankruptcy," &c.
The cases decided by the English courts under the statute of
1 Jac., c. 15, if applicable to the United States Bankrupt act,
do not sustain the doctrine that a conveyance made by an insolvent person is to be considered as a conveyance in contemplation ,ofbankruptcy.
The 2d section of that statute provided that every person using the trade of merchandise who should "make, or cause to be
made, any fraudulent conveyance of his lands, tenements,
goods, or chattels, to the intent, or whereby his creditors shall,
or may be defeated or delayed, for the recovery of their just and
true debts, shall be accompted and adjudged a bankrupt."
Gibbs, C. J., in Fidgeon v. Sharpe, 5 Taunt. 541, said:
"W ith respect -to this doctrine of contemplation in cases of
.bankruptcy, we have nothing either in the common or statute
law to show what it is. The cases in which this doctrine was
introduced made it depend upon the quo aniwn."
In Morgan v. Brundrett, 5 Barn. & Adol. 297, Patteson, J.,
says: ".The recent cases have gone too great a length. They
seem to have proceeded on the principle, that if a party be insolvent at the time he makes payment or a delivery, and afterwards he become banlirupt, he must be deemed to have contemplated bankruptcy at the time when hE made such payment;
but I think that is incorrect; for a man may be insolvent and
yet not contemplate bankruptcy,"
And Parke, J., .says: " The meaning of thobe words," (in

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

157

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.
contemplation of bankruptcy,) "I take to be that the payment
or delivery must be with intent to defeat the general distribu.'
tion of effects which takes place under a commission of bankruptcy. It is not sufficient that it should be made (as may be
inferred from some of the late cases) in contemplation of insolvency. These cases I think have gone too far."
Gibbs, C. J., in Fidgeon v. Sharpe, 5 Taunt. 545, lays down
the correct rule. See it quoted, 8 Met. 385. See also, Hartshorn v. Slodden, 2 Bos. & Pul. 582; Gibbins v. Phillipps, 7 Barn.
& Cres. 529; Atkinson v. Brindall, 2 Bing. N. R. 225; 2 Scott,
369; Belcher v. Prittie, 10 Bing. 408.
The statute of Jac. 1 has*been modcined by recent enactments.
, By the 12th sect. of 2 & 3 Vict. c. 11, it is provided that
"all conveyances by any bankrupt bond fide executed, before
the issuing any fiat of bankruptcy, shall be valid, notwithstanding any prior act of bankruptcy by him committed, provided
the person to whom such bankrupt so conveyed had not at the
time of such conveyance notice of such act."
And the 1st sect. of the 2 & 3 Vict. c. 29, after reciting 6
Geo. 4, c. 16, sect. 81, and 2 & 3 Vict. c. 11, sect. 12, enacts,
"That all contracts, dealings, and transactions, by and with any
bankrupt, really and bond fide made and entered into before the
date and issuing of the fiat against him, and all executions and
attachments against the lands and tenements, or goods and
chattels of such bankrupt, bond fide executed or levied before the
date, &c., of the fiat, shall be deemed to be valid, notwithstanding any art of bankruptcy; provided also, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to give validity to any payment, &c.,
of any bankrupt, being a fraudulent preference of any creditor."
The following American cases give he construction of the
United States Bankrupt act upon this point: In the matter of Rowell, Mr. Justice Prentiss, of the United
States District Court of Vermont, 21 Vt. R. 625, says: " What
constitutes such a preference is a question concerning which there
are conflicting authorities ; but the prevailingdictum seems to be,
that a payment, when it consists of a part only of the debtor's
property, must be made in contemplation of bankruptcy, and
must be voluntary. Both must concur. If it be in contemplation of bankruptcy, but not voluntary, or be voluntary and not
in contemplation of bankruptcy, something more must appear
than mere insolve.cy; enough to show, if not a determination
to become a bankrupt, at least that bankruptcy was in view as
a consequence of the insolvency; and to be voluntary, the payrment must originate with the debtor, the first step being taken
by him and not by the creditor."
VOL.XIII.
14

158

SUPREME COURT.
Buckingham et al. v. McLaan

Gassett et al. v. Morse et al. United States'District Court of
Vermont, 21 Vt. R. 627, where in relation to the proviso as to
conveyances made more than two months before, &c., Prentiss,
3., (p. 633) says: "It cannot reasonably be taken to have any
other effect than merely to give validity to a transaction bond
fide entered into more than two months before the filing of the
bill, so far as it concerns the party dealing with the bankrupt.
It cannot be understood as giving any protection to the' bankrupt himself, either on the question of bankruptcy, or on the
question of his right to a discharge. If the transaction be fraudulent on his part, why should he not be deemed a bankrupt Pr
denied a discharge, as the case may be, though the rights of the
party under the transaction, who may be an innocent party,
should remain unaffected?"
In the matter of Pearce, 6 Law Rep., 261, Judge Prentiss held
f"that it is not a necessary and legal inference that a conveyance
was made in contemplation of bankruptcy, merely because the
debtor was insolvent at the time; but it must appear that the
conveyance was made by the debtor in anticipation of failing in
his business, of committing an act of bankruptcy, or of being declared bankrupt at his own instance, and intending to defeat the
general distribution of his effects."
In Ashby v. Steere, 2 Woodb. & Minot's Rep. 347, Judge
Woodbury examined all the cases on the subject, and says (p.
357) that "if a preference is made by the'debtor without contemplating a subsequent resort to the law, the sale and pref.'rence
are not void at all. Nor if made with such contemplation,
though culpable in the, debtor, is it invalid as to the creditor,
unless he took the property with notice of what was contem.
plated, and thus designedly cooperated against the act, and did
it within the short period of two months prior to the debtor's
application for the benefit of the act."
Again, (pp. 357, 358,) "1J'helaw wisely considers it better that
a preference of this kind, which is good at common law, and
,when the creditor does not know of the design of the debtor to
go into bankruptcy, and does not co6perate to defeat the policy,
of that law, should not be disturbed as to the public, after two
months as before named, than that such assets should go into a
common fund for all creditorsr"
In Jones v. Howland, 8 Met. R., 377, per Hubbard, 3., opinion
of court, p. 387: " The instruction requested by the counsel for
the defendants was substantially correct. With some slight
modification, it maybe stated as follows: Thatif, on the 8th day
of March, 'Stowell feared or believed himself to be insolvent, but
did not contemplite stoppage or failure, and intended to keep on,
making his payments and transacting his business, hoping that

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

159

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

his affairs might be afterwards retrieved; and in that state
of mind made the sale or payment of that day without intend.
ing to give a preference to the. defendants,, and as a measure
connected with his going on in his business, and not as a measure preparatory to, or connected with, a stoppage in business,
then the sale or payment on that day was not a sale or payment
made in contemplation of bankruptcy within the meaning of the
act."
And see Wilkinson's Appeal, 4 Barr, Penn. Rep. 284, 288,
289, where the court say, (referring to the cases of Wakeman v.
Hoyt, 5 Law Rep. 806, and Arnold et al. v. Maynard, by
Story, J., 5 Law Rep. 296,) "These last two decisions do not
sustain the position that the confession of a judgment by a person, even deeply indebted and insolvent, constitutes of itself a
fraud on the Bankrupt act, and is an act of banhruptcy, &c.
"We apprehend that to take the cause out of the saving
clause, it is incumbent upon those who attempt to defeat its
operation to show by satisfactory evidence that the act or dealings were not bandfide." Ibid. p. 290.
!IThis view of the case appears to be in conformity with
the decisions of this court on the subject. Thus, in Haldeman
v. Michael, 6 Watts & Serg. 128, it was ruled that a bond with
warrant of attorney to confess judgment, which was given
two months and twenty days before the petition to have the
debtor declared a bankrupt was presented by his creditor, and
on which afl. fa. was issaed on the same day the bond and warrant were given, was good and valid, and did not constitute an
act of bankruptcy. Judge Hays says that the slightest solicitation on the part of a creditor will protect the transaction. ' Unless it clearly appears that the act originated with the debtor,
and that he took the first step to make the transfer, it will not
be deemed a fraudulent preference. And it is incumbent on the
party who seeks to defeat the transaction to show that it was
voluntary.'
ibid. p. 291.
The case of McAllister v. Richards, 6 Barr, 133, does not vary
this rule, and refers to the above case in 4 Barr, as containrig
the correct rule on the subject.
IL The debt of $15,000, secured by mortgage to the Lafayette Bank, was not an usurious or prohibited loan of money
inder the charter of the bank.
1. The interest charged upon this sum of $15,000 was only
at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum, with no additional charge
of any kind.
The amended bill charges that this loan was "at and for a
rate of interest greater than at the rate of six per cent. per annum
in advance."

SUPREME COURT?.
Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

This the answer positively denies. The respondents, in their
answer say, "These respondents loaned to the said J. & W.
Mahard the sum of $15,000, at -Cincinnati, at or about the date
of said mortgage, to enable them to take up a portion of the
drafts on which they wete liable, as already stated. These respondents have already stated that the first and only draft. of
said J. & W. Mahard not paid at maturity, to the knowledge of
these respondents, was protested on the 18th November, 1841,
but was arranged and taken up to the satisfaction of these respondents; all other drafts of said J. & W. Mahard were taken
up by them'as they became -due at New Orleans, whether with
the proceeds of the loan made by these respondents, as aforesaid,
or not, these respondents have no positive knowledge; when
the said drafts were paid, these respondents regarded the debt
evidenced thereby as paid, and fully discharged and extinguished."
The answer further states, that when these notes for $15,000
were discounted, they "had then ninety-two days to run, and
were to be received without reduction for one year, then one third
to be paid, and so on, until final payment in three years; that the
proceeds of said notes, reserving the sum of two hundred and
thirty dollars, the interest for ninety-two days, were placed to
the credit of said J. & W. Mahard."
The interest on $15,000 for ninety-two days, computing 365
days to the year, is just $230.78, so that the bank received
seventy-eight cents less than the legal interest.
It is claimed that these notes were discounted in order to enable the Mahards to take up their drafts when they became due,
and the transaction- wuld be affected by any taint of usury
which might be claimed to attach to the d:i.afts.
These notes were in no sense a renewal of the drafts; they
were not substituted for the drafts. The avails were passed to
the credit of the Mahards. The drafts were all supposed to continue outstanding, and at their maturity were taken up at New
Orleans, but whether with proceeds of these notes or not is not
certain.
There was no pledge or legal appropriation of the avails of
those notes to meet the drafts. Only one of the drafts was due
when the notes were discounted.
2. In the discounting of the drafts'there was no usury.
The charge made on the drafts, as shown in the answex
to the amended bill, was interest at 6 pet cent. on each.
The exchange on the first was 1 per cent., and the othei
three 12 per cent. The drafts were all at four months, on New
Orleans;
The answer expressly states, " The exchange charged in each

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

161

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

case was the customary and regular rate at the time of the discounting of the bills; and these respondents expressly'deny that
any illegal interest was taken or charged on said bills, or any of
them."
It is the universal settled rule of lair that a charge for exchange, unless used as a cover for usury, is legal and not
usurious.

The case of Andrews v. Pond et al. 13 Pet. 65, contains a full
statement
and illustration of the rule on this subject.
. The party
in this case paid 10 per cent. damages on a protested.bill, drawn on Alabama, in New York, and 10 per cent.
interest and exchange on a new bill to be given, besides the expenses on the protested bill. The amount due on the first bill,
21st February, 1837, was. $6,000. The amount of the new
bill, including damages, interest, exchange, and expenses of
protest, due on the 13th May, 1837, less -han three months,,was
$7,287.78.
Per case, Taney, C. J., (p. 76): " The transaction, taken *Itogether, was indeed a ruinous one on thie part of the defendant.
A debt of $6,000, payable at Mobile, on the 21st of February,
was converted into a debt of $7,287.78, payable at the same
place on the 25th of April, following; being an increase of
$1,287.78 in the short space of eighty-one days. Yet, if the
defendants brought it upon themselves by their failure to take.up
the first bll at maturity, and the transaction was not intended
to cover usurious interest, they must meet the consequence
of their own improvidence. The sum of $6,525.25 was undoubtedly due from them to H. Andrews & Co., on the day the
bill in question was drawn. They were entitled to demand that
sum in New York, or a bill that was equivalent to it at the mnarket price of exchange; and, if ten per cent. discount was the
usual price at which others purchased bills of this description in
the market of New York, they had a right to take the bill at
that rate in satisfaction of their debt,"
Again, (p. 77): "There is no rule of law fixing the rate which
may be lawfully charged for exchange. It does not altogether
depend upon the cost of transporting specie from one place to
another, although the price of exchange is, no doubt, influenced
by it. But it is also materially affected by the state of trade, by
the urgency of the demand for'remittances, and by the quantity
brought into the market for sale; and sometimes material
changes take place in a sifigle day, although no alteration has
happened in the expenses of transporting specie. The court
therefore, can lay down no rule on the subject"
The fact that bills on time are sold.or dispounted .at a higher
rate of exchange than sight bills, does not prove the transaction
14 *

SUPREME COURT.
Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

to be usurious. Pilcher, Assignee, &c., v. The Banks, 7 B.
Monroe, 548. See, also, 11 Ohio R. 417; 13 Pet. 65.
When there is a suspension of specie pa.yment by the banks,
the fact of a charge of a higher rate for time than for sight drafts
does not even tend to show that there was any attempt to cover
an usurious loan.
The rate of exchange, when the payment is to be made in
specie at the place of payment, is, m the main, the expense,
risk, &c., of the transportation of specie.
The rate charged on sight drafts, even if payable in specie, is
not always the same as that on drafts on time. In one cape, the
rate has reference to the present known value of the funds at
the place of payment; in the other, to the rate at th- naturing
of the paper.
When the banls have suspended specie payment, the ordi:
nary certainty in such transactions ceases, and there is a marked
difference between sight and time drafts.
The party buying or discounting drafts at a future time, acts
in reference to the possible and uncertain state of things which
may exist when his money is returned to him in a depreciated
currency at a distant place. The soundness of the banks in
whose'paper the notes may be paid, the discount on the paper
of those banks, the uncertainty attending commercial affairs,
and the apprehension of future depreciation of bank paper, all
form part of the consideration as to the rate of exchange,
The question is one not affecting the character of the draft or
note offered for sale or discount, but the value of the funds at
the place of payment where the same is paid.
When the draft is drawn, at a place, where, from the suspension
of banks, bank paper is the currency, upon a place where they
have not suspended, and debts are paid in specie, the effect of
this state of things is apparent.
A draft drawn on London at New York, when the banks of
New York suspended specie payment, would be sold at a premium, whichwould represent, not only the real state of exchanges
between the -wo countries, but the difference in the value be.
tween gold and silver and the meiket value of the depreciated
currency.
And vice versd, a draft sold at London on New York, would
be in the same manner at a heavy discount, If such draft was
drawn on time, however abundant money lilght be in London,"
an I however low the rate of interest, or however unquestionable
the character of the paper offered, the rate of exchange charged
would be niuch higher than on a sight draft, on account of the
uncertainty of the value of the depreciated currency in which
the debt was tabe paid.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

163*

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.'

For these reasons it might well be that at the same time that
drafts on New Orleans at Cincinnati were at a discount, similar drafts at New Orle@ns on Cincinnati might be at a similar
discount. Because men would prefer to have their money returned to them, at the maturity of the' paper, in the paper of
the banks known to them and at home, in preference to that
of banks unknown to them and at a distance. This would not
apply to specie, the value of which is known and uniform.
3. If usurious interest were taken by the bank, by the general
principle of equity, a party seeking relief must pay the principal
and legal interest, and, by the settled law of Ohio, the contract
is void only for the excess of interest.
Lord Thurlow, in Scott v. Nesbit, 2 Bro. 641; 2 Cox, 183,
said: "I take it to be an universal rule that if it be necessary
for you to come into this court to displace a judgment at law,
you must do it on the equitable terms of paying the principal
money due with lawful interest."
"It is the fundamental doctrine of the court, that in case of
usury equity suffers the party to the illicit contract to have relief; but whoever brings a bill in case of usury, must submit to
pay principal and interest due." Per Lord Hardwicke, 1 Vesey
Sen. 320.
Lord Eldon, 3 Yes. & Bea. 14, says: "At law you must make
out the charge of usury, and at equity you cannot come for
relief, without offering to pay what is really due," &c.
Chancellor Kent, 5 Johns. Ch. R. 143, after citing the foregoing cases, says: "The equity cases speak one uniform language, and I do not know of a case in which relief has been
afforded to a plaintiff, seeking relief against usury, by bill, upon
any other terms." 1 Johns. Ch. R. 367; 3 Ves. &- Bea. 14;
2 Ves. Jr. 138; 16 Yes. 124, n. 1; 2 Ves. Jr. 489; 2 Bro. C. R.
641; 1 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 301, 302.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Nathaniel C. McLean, as the assignee of John Mahard, Jr., a
bankrupt, filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Ohio, for the purpose of relieving property of
the bankrupt from incumbrances thereon, alleged to have been
created in fraud of the Bankrupt act. A final decree having
been entered in the cause, John S. Buckingham and Mlark
Buckingham, parties defendant to the bill, have prosecuted this
appeal.
They allege that the decree of the Circuit Court was erroneous in three particulars.
The first is, that the title of John S. Buckingham to fortynine shares of the stock of the Lafayette Bank has been declared

164

SUPREME

COURT.

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

to be subject to an incumbrance thereon in favor of the bank,
whereas John S. Buckingham had the better title thereto.
The amended bill states "that 'said Mahard, before and at
the time of filing his petition to be declared bankrupt, was the
oWner of forty-nine shares, of one hundred dollars each, of the
capital 'stock of the Lafayette Bank of Cincinnati; that the said
Lafayette Bank and John S. Buckingham set up some claim to
said fort-nine shares of stock, of the particular nature of which
your petitioner is ignorant. And your pe-itioner charges, that
neither
Bank,shares
that petitioner,
nor John
of stock,
S. but
Buckingham,
claim .to said
legalLafayette
any vlidsaid
have
assignee,
&c., is of
justly
thereto."to this allegation in the
The answer
the entitled
bank responds
Bill "that said John Mahard was the owner of forty-nine shares
of the capital stock of the bank of these respondents, on each
of which the sum of one hundred dollars had been paid; that
he became e
owner of said shares, so far as these respondents
are advised, on the 13th day of September, 1841, nd afterwards transferred the same to the cashier of said bank, as collateral security for the debt of J. & W. Mahard to these respondents, and these respondents now clain to have the control
be said shares in virtue of said transfer, and also in virtue of
their lien upon the capital stock of said bank, owned by debtors
the
to same, which lien is created and confirmed by the charter
granted to these respondents by the legislature of the State of
Ohio."
John S. Buckingham and Mark Buckingham both demurred
to this amendment of the bill. Their demurrer was overruled;
but no answer to this particular allegation was filed by either
of them; and the record contains no evidence, introduced by
any party, touching the 'title to this stock. In this state of the
record it is most manifest, only one decree could be made. The
bank, in response to the allegations of the bill, having disclosed
two titles to this stock, either of which was sufficient, if valid,
and the assignee having shown nothing to impeach either title,
his claim could not be allowed; and John S. Buckingham, being
entirely silent- respecting the charge in the bill, that he makes
some claim to this stock, does, in effect, make -none in this cause,
and cannot complain of a decree for not awarding to him what
he does not appear to have claimed.
The second objection made by the appellants to the decree is,
that it declares their title to certain moneys, made by the levy
of an execution, in their favor, on personal property of the bankrupts, to be'invalid, as against the assignee.
On the 7th of April, 1842, a power of attorney to William M.
Corry, Esq., to confess a judgment against the mercantile firm

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

165

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

of the bankrupts, in favor of John S. Buckingham, for the sum
of fourteen thosand, eight hundred dollars, was executed by
John Mahard, Jr., for himself and his copartner, William Mahard,
who was at the time in New Orleans. By virtue of this power
a judgment for that sum was confessed on the 8th of April. On
the 20th of April, William Mahard, by an instrument under seal,'
which recited the substance of this power, and that it was given
with his concurrence, confirmed and ratified it as his act. On
the 22d of May, 1842, execution was taken out and levied on
personal property of the judgment debtors. On the 27th of
May, 1842, John Mahard, Jr., filed his petition and was subsequently decreed a bankrupt thereon. The judgment, though
confessed in favor of John S. Buckingham alone, was founded
on a debt due to both the appellants, who were bondtfide creditors of J. & W. Mahard.
The question is, whether these proceedings c ame within the
second section of the Bankrupt Act, 5 Stat. at Large, 442. This
section provides: "That all future payments, securities, conveyances, or transfers of property, or agreements, made, or given by
any bankrupt, in contemplation of bankruptcy, and for the purpose of giving any creditor, indorser, surety, or other person any
preference or priority over the general creditors of such bank-...
rupt, shall be deemed utterly void, and a fraud upon this act
By the law of Ohio, a judgment creates a liend on the real
estate of the judgment debtor, and the levy of an execution
creates one on his personal estate levied on. A power of attorney to confess a judgment, whenever a judgment is taken under
it, does in fact operate to create a security upon the'debtor's real
estate; and when an execution issues on that judgment, to
create a lien on the personal estate levied on. It is true these
liens arise by operation of law, from the judgment, and execution, and its levy, which are the acts of officers of the law, and
not of the debtor. But the power of attorney is designed to,
and does, produce those acts, which depend upon it for their
validity, and therefore through those acts does create the security. The operation of law is always necessary to give effect
to any form of security, which indeed is but the legal consequence of the act of the party; and the lien created by a judgment
is none the less the legal consequence of the act of the party,
because it is necessary that after the power is executed, a judgment should be rendered. When it is rendered, the creditor
has a security, by operation of law, through the act of the debtor,
and therefore such a security maybe correctly said, in the language of this section, to be made or given by the debtor.
If it were not so, one of the acts of bankruptcy, described in
the first section of this statute; would make a valid title to the

.166

SUPREME COURT.
Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

creditor.- It is an act of bankruptcy, for the debtor willingly to
procure his goods or lands to be attached, distrained, seques.
tered, or taken on execution. It cannot be supposed that what
was in itself an act of bankruptcy, and done for the purpose of
giving a preference over the general creditors, was intended to
be left valid, and effectual to defeat one of the thvo great objects
of the law, which were to grant a discharge to honest debtors
who should conform to its provisions, and to distribute their
property ratably among all their creditors.
But if a judgment, confessed by the debtor through a power
of attorney, be not a security given by him, there is nothing in
this act which defeats a preference thus created, and the provisions of this second section become practically inoperative in
respect to all property of the debtor which may be bound by a
judgment, or even .by the levy of an execution; since a speedy and
well-known mode of preferring a creditor, by confessing a judgment, is left open to all debtors who may desire to give prefi rences, even in contemplation of bankruptcy. This consequenc?,
while it would not justify a forced construction of the words
used in the act, does certainly require that the utmost meaning
and effect, fairly attributable to them, should be laid hold of to
pfevent so great a mischief.
The language employed in the English bankrupt acts shows
that, under that system, a judgment is treated as a security.
The 21 James 1, c. 19, ยง 9, uses the language "that, if any
person have a security for his debt by judgment, statute," &c.
The revising act, 6 Geo. 4, c. 16, ยง 108, provides that, "no
creditor, having security for his debt, &c. shall receive more than
a ratable part of such debt, except in respect to any execution
or extent, served and levied by seizure upon, or any mortgage
or lien upon, any part of the property of such bankrupt, before
the bankruptcy."
Thus classing judgments with mortgages,
under the word securities. And the Irish Bankrupt Act, 11 &
12 Geo. 3, c. 8, ยง 5, enacted, that "nothing herein contained
shall extend to any security by judgment, obtained before the
bankrupt became a trader." Mr. Eden (iden on Bankruptcy,
285,) remarks, concerning the difference in phraseology between
the 21 James 1, and 6 Geo. 4, that the general term, security,
employed by the latter, would necessarily include all the particulars enumerated in the old statute; that is, security necessarily includes judgments. In many of the States, a bond and
warrant of attorney to enter up judgment is a usual mode of
taking security, for a debt, and judgments thus entered are
treated as securities, and an equitable jurisdiction exercised over
them by courts of law. In some States, they operate only as a
lien on the lands of the debtor, in others, on his personal estate

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

167

Buckingham et al. v. McLean

also; Brown v. Clarke, 4 How. 4; and wherever, by the local
law, a judgment or. an execution operates to make7 a lien on
property, we are of opinion it is to be deemed a security; and
when rendered upon confession, under a power given by the
debtor for that purpose, it is a security made or given by him
within the meaning of the Bankrupt Act, and is void, if accompanied by the facts made necessary by that act to render seculities void. These facts are, that the security was given "in
contemplation of bankruptcy, and for the purpose of giving any
creditor, indorser, surety, or other person, a preference or priority
over the general creditors of such bankrupt."
The inquiry, whether this security was given in contemplation
of bankruptcy, involves the question what is meant by those
words. It is understood that, while the Bankrupt" Law was in
operation, different interpretations were placed upori them in
different circuits. By some judges, they were held to mean
contemplation of insolvency, -of a simple inability to pay, as
debts should become payable, -- whereby his business would be
broken up; this was considered to be a state of bankruptcy.,
the contemplation of which was sufficient. By other judges, it
was held, that the debtor must contemplate an act of bankruptcy,
or a voluntary application for the bankrupt law. In re Peatce,
6 Law Rep. 261; In re Rowell, 6 Law Rep. 298 ; Jones v. Howland, 8 Met. R. 377; Taylor v. Whitehouse, 5 Humph. 340.
It is somewhat remarkable that this question should be presented for the first time for the decision of this court after the
law has been so long repealed, and nearly all proceedings under
it terminated. Perhaps the explanation may be found in the
fact, that when securities have been given within two months
before the presentation of a petitibn by or against the debtor,
the evidence would usually bring the case within either interpretation of the law. However this may be, it is now presented
for decision; and we are of opinion that, to render the security
void, the debtor must have contemplated an act of bankruptcy
or an application by himself to be decreed a bankrupt.
Under the common law, conveyances by a debtor, to bon~fide
creditors, are valid, though the debtor has become insolvent and
failed, and makes the conveyance for the sole purpose of giving
a preference over his other creditors. This common-law right,
it was the object of the second section of the act to restrain;
but, at the same time, in so guarded a way as not to interfere
with transactions consistent with the reasonable accomplishment
of the objects of the act. To give to these words, contemplation of bankruptcy, a broad scope, and somewhat loose meaning, would not be in furtherance of the general purpose with
which they were introduced.

168

SUPRPME COURT.
Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

The word bankruptcy occurs many times in this act. It is
entitled "An act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy."
And the word is manifestly used in other parts of the law to
describe a particular legal status, to be ascertained and declared
by a judicial decree, It cannot be easily admitted that this vefy
precise and definite term is used in this clause'to signify something quite different. It is certainly true in point of fact, that,
even a merchant may contemplate insolvency and the breaking
up of his business, and yet not contemplate bankruptcy. He
may confidently believe that his personal character, and the
state of his affairs, and the disposition of his creditors, are such,
that when they shall have examined into h-s condition they will
extend the times of payment of their debts, and enable him to
resume his business. A person, not a merchant, banker, &c.,
and consequently not liable to be proceeded against and made
a bankrupt, though insolvent; may have come to a determination that he 'will not petition. The contemplation of one
of these states, not being in fact the contemplation of the
other, to say that both were included in a term which describes
only one of them, would be a departure. from sound principles
of interpretation. Moreover, the provisos in this section tend
to show what was the real meaning of thid first enacting clause.
The object of these provisos was, to protect bond fide dealings
with the bankrupt, more than two months before the filing of
the petition by or against him, provided the other party was
ignorant of such an intent on the part of the bankrupt, as
made the security invalid under the first enacting clause. And
th6 language is, "provided that the other party to any such
dealings or transactions had no notice of a prior act of bankruptcy, or of the intention of the bankrupt to take the benefit
of this act." These facts, of one of which a bond fide creditor
must have notice, to render his security void, if taken more than
two months before the filing of the petition, can hardly be supposed to be different from the facts which must exist to render
the security void under the first clause; or., in other *rords, if it
be enough for the debtor to contemplate a state of insolvency,
it could hardly be required that the creditor should have notice
of an act of bankruptcy, or an intention to take the benefit of
the act. It would seem that notice to the creditor of what is
sufficient to avoid the security, must deprive him of its benefits,
and consequently, if he must have notice of something, more
than insolvency, something more than insolvency is required
to render the security invalid; and that we may safely take this
7
escription of the facts which a creditor must have notice of to
avoid the security, as descriptive, also, of what the bankrupt
must contemplate to render it void.

DECEMBER

TERM

1851.

169

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

In construing a similar clause in the English bankrupt law,
there have been conflicting decisions. It has been held that
contemplation of a state of insolvency was sufficient. Pulling v.
Tucker, 4 B. & Aid. 382; Poland v. Glyn, 2 Dow. & Ry. 310.
But both the earlier and later decisions were otherwise, and, in
our judgment, they contain the sounder rule. Fidgeon v.
Sharpe, 5 Taunt. 545; Hartshorn v. Slodden, 2 Bos. & Pal.
582; Gibbins v. Phillipps, 7 B. & 0. 529; Belcher v. Prittie, 10
Bing. 408; Morgan v. Brundrett, 5 Barn. & Ad. 297. And see
the opinion of Patteson, J., in the last case.
Considering, then, that it is necessary to show that the debtor
contemplated an act of bankruptcy, or a decree adjudging him
a bankrupt on his own petition, at what time in this case must
he have had this in contemplation? He gave the power of
attorney on the 7th of April; the judgment was confessed and
entered up on the next day; the execution was taken out and
levied, and the lien created thereby, on the 22d of May; and
five days afterwards, being less than two months after the execution, of the power, the debtor presented the petition under
which'he was decreed a bankrupt. The only act done by the
debtor was the execution and delivery of the power of attorney.
It was a security by him made or given, only by reason of that
instrument. What followed were acts of the creditor and of
officers of the law, with which the debtor is no more connected
than with the delivery by a creditor of a deed to the office of
the register, to be recorded, or the act of the register in recording
it. It would seem that, if the intent of the debtor is to give a
!egal quality to a transaction, it must be an intent accompanying an act done by himself, and not an intent or purpose arising
in his mind afterwards, while third persons are acting; and
that, consequently, we must inquire whether the debtor contemplated bankrdptcy when he executed the power. It is true, this
construction would put it in the power of creditors, by taking a
bond and warrant of attorney, while the debtor was solvent and
did not contemplate bankruptcy, to enter up a judgment and
issue execution, and by a levy acquire a valid lien, down to the
very moment when the title 6f the assignee began. But this was
undoubtedly so under the statute of James, which, like ours,
contained no provision to meet this mischief; and it became so
great that, by the 108th section of the revising act of 6 Geo. 4,
it was enacted, that "no creditor, though for a valuable consideration, who shall sue out execution on any judgment
obtained by default, confession, or nil dicdt, shall avail himself
of such execution, to the prejudice of oth.er fair creditors, but
shall be paid ratably with such creditors."
If the Bankrupt Act of 1841 had continued to exist, a
VOL. XIII.

15

170

SUPREME COURT.
Backingham'et al. v. McLean.

similar addition to its provisions would doubtless have become
necessary.
It remains to inquire whether the debtor in this case, in point
of fact, contemplated bankruptcy, and designed to give a preference to the appellants, when he executed the power on the
7th of April.
It has been stated at the bar that by some accident, much of
the evidence bearing on this question was lost, and is not inserted in the record. We have no doubt of the fact; but this
question must be decided here upon what remains; and we
think there is sufficient now on the record to show that bankruptcy was in contemplation when the power was given. The
petition to be decreed a bankrupt was filed only fifty days after
the dte of the power. No material change in the state of the
debtor's affairs appears to have occurred between the 7th of
April and the 27th of May. The only property which came
into the hands of the assignee, uncovered by valid liens of particular creditors, was the thirteen hundred dollars made by this
execution out of property already incumbered by a mortgage to
another creditor, for the sum of upwards of fourteen thousand
dollars, dated on ihe 18th of March preceding, and which has
been adjudged by the Circuit Court to be void, under the second
section of the Bankrupt Act, and no appeal taken.
- The bankrupt was a member of a mercantile firm, doing business in Cincinnati and New Orleans, and the commercial paper
of this firm, to a very large amount, had been protested for nonpayment, and was known to the bankrupt to have been so, before this power was given. Holding an execution for $14,800,
the appellants were able to make upon it only $1300. Both
the mercantile firm and the individual bankrupt were in a state
of deep, and so far as appears, irretrievable insolvency, and there
is no reason to doubt the bankrupt knew these facts. Though
? competent witness for the appellants cn the question of his
own intent, aid able to give decisive evidence, if believed, he
has not been examined, nor is there any evidence in the record
to control the strong presumption that the purpose he executed
on the 22d of May, by filing his petition, existed in his mind
fifty days before, when his circumstances were the same, and the
inducements to take advantage of the act were is great, as at
the time he actually attempted to do so.
It is true the appellants say in their answers they adcl not know
or believe, when the poiver was given, and do not now believe,
the debtor then contemplated bankruptcy. But their answer,
though responsive, in this particular, to the bill, is entitled to
little weight concerning the state of mind of the debtor, no reasons being given for their belief and none of the facts explained

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

171

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.
from which an opposite inference is to be drawn, 9 Cranch 160;
and their own state of mind is not material, because the petition
was tiled within two months after the date of the power.
It has been. suggested that the execution of the power of at"
torney by Mahard was in itself an act of bankruptcy, because
he thereby procured his goods to be taken on execution. But
the act requires that this should be done willingly, or fraudulently. The Buckinghams being bond fide creditors there is no
ground upon which this act can be deemed fraudulent unless it'
was done in contemplation of bankruptcy and with intent to
give a preference, and this would bring us back to the inquiry
whether such contemplation and intent existed; and it is explicitly denied by the answers of the Buckinghams that the power
was executed by Mahard willingly, it having been done under
strong pressure by them, and only at last because a suit was
threatened if he did not comply. There is no evidence to control these statements in their answers, so that we cannot say
that per se the giving of the power was an act of bankruptcy. 1
Deacon's B. L. 446; Thompson v. Freeman, 1 T. R. 155; Hunt
v. Mortimer, 10 B. & 0.44; Morgan v. Brundrett, 5 B. & Ad. 297.
We have therefore found it necessary to go into the inquiry
whether the bankrupt did in fact contemplate bankruptcy when
the power was given, and intend to give a preference thereby;
and being of opinion that he did, there is no error in the decree of
the Circuit Court in this particular.
The third objection made to the decree of the court below is,
that it established the validity of sundry mortgages on the property of the-bankrupts, held by certain banking corporations. It is
alleged by the appellants that these mortgages were void, on account of usury; that though, by the statute law of Ohio, a usurious contract is valid, for the principal sum lent, with lawful
interest thereon, yet, if a banking corporation make a usurious
contract, it is utterly void, because such a banking corporation
has no lawful authority to make such a contract, exceeds its
powers by attempting to do so, and consequently neither party
is bound thereby.
We have not thought it necessary to examine this position,
because we are of opinion that usury, in either of these mortgages, is not proved.
The power of these banking corporations to deal in exchangeis not controverted. There is no usury on the face of any one
of these transactions. It is incumbent on the party Who charges
usury to prove it; and where it is alleged to consist in taking
excessive rates of exchange, or in resorting to the form of a bill
of exchange in order to keep out of sight a usurious compensation for the simple loan of money, these facts must be proved.

172

SUPREME

COURT.

Buckingham et al. v. McLean.

Andrews v. Pond'et al. 13 Pet. 65; Creed v. The Commercial
Bank, 11 Ohi6 R. 489. The answer of each bank denies such
intent, and avers that the exchange chexged in each case was
the customary and re ular rate at the time of the discount of
each bill. There is not evidence to prove the contrary. Indeed
it was agreed by the counsel on both side&, during the argument,
that ithe rates charged were the usual and customary prices of
exchange between Cincinnati, where the bills were drawn, and
New Oreans,' Vhere they were payable, at the times they were
discounted, The coufisel for the appellants urged that the rates
were higher than were charged on sight bills. -But these were
time bills, and it is no proof of usury that the banks did not
take the market rates on sight bills which they did not discount,
if they took only the'market rates on those they did discount.
It was also insisted that the banks did not buy these bills, but
were the first takers for loans of money made to the drawers.
But we are unable to perceive how the fact that the banks were
the first takers can be of any importance in this case, nor do we
deem it material that the bills were discounted for the drawers.
The reason why the addition of the current rate of exchange
to the legal rate of interekt does not constitute usury is, that the
former is a just and lawful compensation for receiving payment
at a place where the money is expected to be less valuable
than at the place where it is advanced and lent. And this reason exists when the lender discounts the drawer's bill as well as
when he buys a bill in'the market of the payee. In neither case
is it usury to take the regular and customary compensation for
the loss in valuq by change of place of payment. It is argued
that no usage, or cusfor4 can make an unlawful contract valid.
This must be admitted. But the contract is not unlawful,
unless more than six per cent. has been reserved or taken
for interest; if more has been reserved or taken, not for the loan
and forbearance, but for a change in the place of payment, then
ihe ccntract is lawful; and in determining whether the excess
over six per cent. has been reserved for interest., or as a just compensation for changing the place of payment, the custom, or the
market value of this change, is evidence of the real intent of the
parties, and so evidence of the validity of the contract.
Our opinion is that usury was not made out in either of these
mortgages and that there was no error in the decree of the court
below declaring their validity. The decree of the Circuit Court
is affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit court of the United States for the District

DECEM1BER TERM, 1851.

173

Hogan et al. v. Ross.

of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court4
that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause, be, and
the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

SMITH HOGAN, ARTHUR S. HOGAN, AND REUBEN Y. REYNOLDS,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. AARONg Ross, wHO SUES FOR THE
USE OF ROBERT PATTERSON.
Where a declaration contained two counts, one of which set omt an injunction-bond
with the condition thereto annexed, and averred a breach, and the second count
was merely for the debt in the penalty; and the pleas were all applicable to the
first count, which was upon trial stricken out by the plaintiff, and the court gave
judgment upon the second count for the want of a plea, this judgment was proper,
and must be affirmed.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the Northern' District of Mississippi.
The question was one of pleading and arose in this way:
At June term, 1840, of the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Mississippi, Aaron Ross, a citizen
of Pennsylvania, recovered a judgment against George Wightman and Smith Hogan, for $3,177,05, with interest from the
11th day of December, 1839.
Ross issued an execution upon this judgment.
On the 30th of September, 1842, when this execution was in
the hands of the marshal, Smith Hogan obtained an injunction
prohibiting further proceedings under the execution. The signers
of the injunction-bond were Smith Hogan, Arthur S. Hogan,
and Reuben Y. Reynolds.
In November, 1843, in the Circuit Court of the United States,
the following entry was made upon tne docket.
SMITH HOGAN,

)

v.
401.
Dismissed by order of complainant's
AARON ROSS.
3
solicitors.
In Iay, 1845, Ross brought an action upon the injunctionbond, the penalty of which, being double the amount of the
judgment, was 6,354.10. The declaration set out the bond and
averred, as a breach of the condition, that Hogan had not prosecuted his writ of injunction to effect, but the samewas dissolved
and the bill of the said Smith, by said court, dismissed. To
15*

