DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

345

Very v. Levy.

MARTIN VERY, APPELLANT, V. JONAS LEvy.

In equity, where a creditor agrees to receive specific articles in satisfaction of a debt,
even although it be a debt upon bond, secured by mortgage, he will be held to the
performance of his agreement.
But, in order to bring a case within this principle, there must be,1. An agreement not inequitable in its terms and effect.
2. A valuable consideration for such agreement.
3. A readiness to perform, and the absence of laches, on the part of the debtor.
Where the agreement to receive payment in goods was made by a person who acted
under a power of attorney from the creditor, authorizing him to trade, sell, and dispose of notes, bills, bonds, or mortgages, and, under this power, a partial payment
-as received in goods, which was afterwards reco'gnized as a payment by the creditor, the power was sufficient to authorize an agreement to receive the remaining

amount, also in goods, at any time when called for within twelve months, especially
as the bond had yet four years to run.
This agreement was not inequitable; there was a valuable consideration for it; and
the debtor was always ready to. comply with it, on his part.

The creditor cannot now.allege fraud in his debt6r. It is not charged in the bill;
'and, although he may not have known of the agreement when the bill was framed,
-yet, when the answer came in, he might have -amended his bill, and charged
fraud.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Arkansas.
In 1841; one Darwin Lindsley .owned a lot of land in the
town of Little Rock, and State of Arkansas, which was known
as lot No. 7, in block or square No. 35, in that part of the city
west of the Quapaw line, and known as the Old Town. ,
'On the 3d of March, 1841, he. sold this lot to Jonds Levy,
who gave two bonds, each for *4,000, one payable five years
after date, and the other six years after date. Both were to
carry interest, at 7 per cent, payable quarter-yearly. The bond,
payable %infive years, was not involved in the present suit, and
no further notice need be taken of it. Both bonds were secured
by a mortgage of the property.
On the 25th of- March, 1841, Lindsley assigned the six years'
bond to Martin Very, a citizen of the State of Indiana.
This bond had the following credits indorsed upon it;
1841, March 15
. 8.550.00
1842, January 29
181.12
1843, March 3 (in goods) .
.
.
1898.25
The last credit was signed, Martin Very, by J. S. Davis, and
arose in this way:
On the 25th of November, 1842, Davis addressed the following letter to Levy.
DEAR SIR, -

Nnw ALBANY, Indiana, Nov. 25, 1842.
My object in writing to you, is to inquire what

SUPREME COURT.
Very v. Levy.

you will give in cash and jewelry for the last note that you
gave to Darwin Lindsley, and which was assigned by hin to
Martin Very. I have bonght a part cf the note, and am
authorized to make disposition of it, and I thought, as a matter
of justice, you should have the refusal of the note, at a considerable discount, if you desired it. Please let me hear from
you at your earliest convenience. I write for myself and Mr.
Very.
I am, respectfully yours, &c.'
Mir. JONAS Lnvy.
JOHN S. DAvIs.
(Indorsed,) - Mr. JONAS Lnvy, Little Rock, Arkansas.
(Postmarked) - New Albany, Ind., Nov. 26.
On the 28th of January, 1843, Very executed the following
power of attorney to Davis:
Know all men, by these presents, that I, Martin Very, of the
county of Floyd, and State of Indiana, have made, constituted,
and appointed, and do, by these presents, make, ordain, constitute, and appoint, John S. Davis, of the city of New Albany,
Indiana, my true and lawful attorney, for me, and in my name,
and for my use, to ask, demand, sue for, recover, and receive,
all such sum or sums of money, notes, bills, bonds, mortgages,
or debts, which are or -hall be due, owing, or belonging to me,
in any manner, or by any means whatsoever; and I hereby give
my said attorney full, power and authority to trade, sell, and
dispose of any notes, bills, bonds, or mortgages, held or owned
by me, on any resident or residents of the State of Arkansas;
and I hereby give my said attorney full power and authority, in
and about the premises, to have, use, and take all lawful ways
and means, in my name, for the purposes aforesaid; and, upon
the receipt of such debts, dues, or sums of money, to make,
seal, and deliver, acquittances and other sufficient discharges
for me, and in my name, or, upon the sale of any bill, bond,
note, or mortgage, to execute a good and sufficient assignment
-of the same to the purchaser thereof, for me, and in my name;
and, geherally, to do and perform, in my name, all other acts
and things necessary to be done and performed in and about the
premises, as fully and amply, to all intents and purposes, as I
myself could or might do, if personally present; and attorneys, one
or more, under him, for the purpose aforesaid, to make and constitute, and again at pleasure revoke. Ard I lhereby ratify and
confirm all and whatsoever my said attorney shall lawfully do, in
my name, in and about the premises, by virtue of these presents; and I hereby make this power of attorney irrevocable, to
all intents and purposes. In testimony whereof, I have here-

DECEMBER TERM, 185i.

847

Very v. Levy.

unto set my hand, and seal, this, the 28th day of January, in
MARTIN VERY. [SEAL.1
the year of our Lord 1843.
Signed, sealed, and delivered in presence of

Jos. P. I.

THORNTON.

Under this power, Davis went -to Little Rock, and, on'the 3d
of March, 1843, put the receipt above mentioned upon the back
of the bond for $1,898.25, paid in goods; and, on the same day,
executed the following paper,.viz.:
LITTLE

Rocx, March 3d, '43.

I hereby agree to take in goods, such as jewelry, &c., the
balance due me on a note assigned by D. Lindsley to ipe, as
also a mortgage assigned by the said Lindsley; said goods to
be delivered to me, or any agent at Little Rock, Arkansas, at
reasonable prices,' .t said Little Rock; said goods to be called

for -within twelve months from this time.

MARTIN VERY.

By J. S. D&is,
Attorney in fact.
Davis stated in his deposition that, in January, 1844, he
-wrote to Levy, directing him to pay the balance, in jewelry,
watches, &c. to Mr. Waring, in Little Rock; that he received
an answer from Levy, declining to do so; but that he had lost
or mislaid this answer from*Levy.
On the 3d of February, 1844, Davis wrote to Levy the following letter:
NEW ALBA'Y, Feb. 3, 1844.
DEAR SIR, - If you can pay the balance of your note in good
silver or gold watches, and good- jewelry, .at fair prices, say
about half of each, or two thirds watches, you will please notify
me of the fact by return of mail, and I will send on for them at
once. The things you let me have before were too high, -- at
least Mr. Very says so. - Let me hear from you. I am your
JOHN I. DAvis.
friend,,
MR.3. LEvY.

Postmark) -

Indorsedy-

New Albany, Ind., Feb. 5.
MR. JONAS LEvy, Jeweller, Little Rock, Ark.

In April, 1848, Very filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Ark anslas against 'Levy, for the
purpose of foreclosing the mortgage. The answer of Levy adnitted all the allegations of the bill, but set up as a defence the
execution of the power of attorney by Very to Davis, and the
subsequent agreement between Davis and himself, by which

848

SUPREME

COURT.

Very v. Levy.

the goods were to be called for within twelve months. It was
then alleged, that not only during the next twelve" months, but
always afterwards, Levy had kept on hand goods enough of the
proper character to pay the balance due, been always ready and
still was ready to deliver them, and had often urged the complainant to receive and accept them, and would deposit them in
the custody of any one directed by the court.
Levy brought into court a large quantity of goods and jewelry,
which was placed in the hands of-a receiver.
- The case being heard on bill,' amendment, answers, replicatibns, exhibits, and testimony, the court hed Very bound by the
agreement, and found that Levy had always had sufficient
goods on hand ready to be delivered; and directed the master
to ascertain the balance" due on the bond, and the value of the
goods delivered to the receiver.
The master reported the balance due on the 3d March, 1844,
to be $2,002.59, and the value of the goods, $5,776.99. No
exception was taken to the report, and it was confirmed.
The *courtthen ordered the complainant to select out of tle
goods, to the amount of $2,002.59, and on his failure, after
notice to his solicitor, that the master should do so. The complainant failed to select; the master set apart the requisite
amount, the residue were redelivered to Levy, and the court
decreed that Very should receive the goods so set apart by the
master, and that the bond and mortgage were satisfied; denied
the relief prayed, and- dismissed the bill; all costs to be paid by
the-complainant.
Very appealed to this court. It was argued by .TAr. Sebastian,
for the appellant,and by 11r. Lawrence, for the .epellee, on
whose side there was also a brief filed by 3l1r. Pike.
Mr. Sebastian,for appellant.
Much irrelevant matter is drawn into the case, which it is not
my purpose to notice; and except the points noticed below, the
whole defence fails, upon the well-settled principle that matters
set up in an answer by way of avoidance avail nothing unless
proved. 1 Munf. Rep. 373; 1 Johns. Rep. 590; 14 Id. 74; 4
Paige, 33; Cathcart v. Robinson, 5 Pet. Rep. 267; United States
Bank v. Beverley, 1 How. U. S. Rep. 151.
Under the power given. to Davis, he had authority, as is contended for Very, only to rec6ive the amount of the bond and
mortgage in money, or to sell and transfer them, and no other
juuthority whatever to agree to receive at a future day a payment in goods, and to bind his principal so to receive therh,no authority to substitute a new.cgntract, by which Very must

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

849

Very v. Levy.
necessarily be a loser, and bind Very to its performance, From
the pleadings and evidence, it is clear that Davis did nqt receive
payment, in money or otherwise. Is it not equally clear that
he did not sell and transfer the bond and mortgage? And in
what part of the power can the authority be found for Davis to
bind Very by a new contract, to be performed in future? The
whole object of the power was to close up and put an end to
his business in Arkansas, and not to entangle himself with new
contracts, liabilities, and litigation, and which has been the.
result of the unwarrantable construction put on the power by
Levy, and the unauthorized acts of Davis under it.
And it is a well-settled principle of law, and nowhere controverted, that if an agent exceed his authority his acts in such
excess do not bind his principal. Taggart v. Stanbery, 2
McLean's Rep. 549; Planters Bank v. Cameron et al., 3 Smed.,
& Marsh. Rep. 613; Gordon v. Buchanan, 5 Yerg. Rep. 79; 2
Kent's Com. (1st ed.) 483; 3 Eng. (Ark.) Rep. 230; Wahren.dorff v. Whitaker, 1 Missouri Rep. 148; 3 Stew. (Ala.) Rep. 26,
27; Fox v. Fisk, 6 How.. (Miss.) Rep. 345; Fenn v. Harrison,
3 Term Rep. 759; Stewart v. Donnelly, 4 Yerg. Rep. 180;
Thompson v. Stewart, 3 Conn. Rep. 183; 1 Hovenden on
Frauds, 180; North River Bank v. Aymar, 3 Hill's (N. York)
Rep. 266; Piatt v. Oliver, 2 McLeau's C. C. R. 316; Story on
Agency, § 165, 172.
This was a special authority to.Davis, and not a general one,
and Levy was bound to know the extent of his auth6rity; and
if that authority was exceeded, Levy nust bb the loser by the
unauthorized act, and not Very, who gave not the authority.
2 Kent's Com. (original ed.) 484; Payne v. Stone, 7 emedes &
Marsh. Rep. 373; Gullett v. Lewis, 3 Stewart's (A-I. Rep.
26, 27; 1 Hovenden on Frauds, 179, 181; 3 Hil's Rep. 266;
Owings v. Hull, 9 Pet. Rep. 628; Story on Agency, § 72, 73,
81, 165; Story on Contracts, § 284; Denning v. Smith, 3 Johns.
Ch. Rep. 344.
And a special power must be strictly pursued, and cannot be
enlarged. Batty v. Carswell, 2 Johns. Rep. 50; Mayor, &c. of
Little Rock v. The State Bank, 3 Eng. (Ark.) Rep. 230; 2
Kent's Com. (1st ed.) 484; Dickenson v. Gilliland, 1 Cow.
Rep. 498; Nixon v. Hyserott, 5 Johns. Rep. 59; Story on
Agency, § 165.
And although Davis's power should be esteemed, in technical
parlance, as a general agency, yet the act performed under it
must have reference to, and be limited by, "the purpose for
which the power was givem" And the purpose in this case, as
is clearly shown by the power itself, was not to make new obligatibns to be performed by himself, but to receive payment and,
VOL. XIIL

30

350

SUPREME COURT.
Very v. Levy.

close up finally those due to him from others. See 3 Smed. &
Marsh. Rep. 613; Story on Agency, § 21., 62- 69, 83, 89; 6
How. (Miss.) Rep. 345; 4 Yef. Rep. 180; Mechanics Bank v.
Bank of Columbia, 5 Wheat. Rep. 337; Story on Contracts,

§ 287.

And even in such case the act performed must appear to
have been, a necessary means of carrying into effect the power
granted by the principal. And could the new contract made
by Davis be deemed a legitimate and necessary means of receiving payment in money, or of effecting a sale of the securities? Surely not. See 3 Sm. & Marsh. Rep. 613; Story on
Agency, § 62.-69, 83; 5 Johns. Rep. 59.
Here, too, a special p6wer of attorney was given in writing,
and such powers are subjected to a "strict interpretation."
Story on Agency, § 68, 69; Story on Contracts, § 287.
A factor is a general agent, yet he cannot bind his principal
to sales on credit, or to any mode of payment other than the
receipt of the money at the sale, unless there be a general usage.
established controlling such agency. 2 Kents Com. (1st ed.)
485, 486.
And any general agent to receive payment of a debt is bound
to receive it in money only, unless otherwise directed. Martin's
Adm. v. The United States, 2 Monroe's Rep. 90; 4 Yerg. Rep.
180; 6 How. (Miss.) Rep. 345; 3 Stewart's (Ala.) Rep. 27;
Story on Agency, § 62, 98, 99, 181; Story on Contracts, § 299.
And the power to sell and transfer could-surely not authorize
the compromitment of Very s rights, by any species of contract
-whatever not embraced in the letter, spirit, or meaning of the
terms used in the pow6r. Clarke's Lessee v. Courtney, 5 Pet.
Rep. 347; 5 Johns. Rep. 59; Story on Agency, § 62- 69, 89;
Williamson v. Berry, 8 How. U. S. Rep. 544.
And the opinion of Davis as to the extent of his powers
under the agency, and that he was authorized to bind Very by
this new contract with Levy, cannot aid the latter, nor is it.any
evidence of Davis's authority to make it. Clark's Ex'ors v. Van
Reimsdyk, 9 Cranch's Rep. 158; Garvin v. Lowry, 7 Smed&
Marsh. Rep. 27; 5 Wheat. Rep. 337.
The act of Davis's agreeing to receive goods in payment was
never ratified by Very; nor can such ratification be presumed,
because the evidence of Davis himself, invoked by Levy, shows
that Very knew not of the existence of such a contract, and that
.the payment in goods, indorsed on the bond, was no part of-the
contract to, receive other goods, in future. And an acquiescence
in receiving the goods already paid cannot be tortured into a
ratification of an unauthorized act of a faithless agent to receive
others in future, and of which the principal, had no knowledge.

DECEMBER

TERM, 18.51;.

S51

Very v. Levy.

For the ratification of such an act, whether in fact or presumed, could not be binding on Very, without a fll knowledge
of its existence and of all the circumstances under which it was
made. Lyon v. Tams & Co., 6 Eng. (Ark.) Rep. 205; Cairnes
v. Bleeker, 12 Johns. Rep. 305; 2 Kent's Com. (4th ed.) 616; 2
Stirk. Ev. (7th Am. ed.) 43, notes. A, B; Armstrong v. Gilchrist, 2 Johns. Cas. 430, note A; 7 Smed. & Marsh. Rep. 27;
Owings v. Hull, 9 Pet. Rep. 629; .Story on Agency, § 90, 239,
242, et seq.
Besides, even were it in law true, which is denied- that
Davis had authority to bind Very by the new contract entered
into with Levy, yet from the evidence of Davis himself, who is
Levy's own witness, such contract was obtained by the false
pretences and fraud of Levy himself, both by the suppressiol of
truth and utterance of falsehood, and could not be binding either
upon Davis or Very, in law or equity. For fraud vitiates and
ienders void all contracts into which it enters. See Story on
Contracts, § 165, 167, et seq., 177, et seq., 542, et seq.; Roberts
on Frauds, (Philadelphia ed. of 1807,) 521; 2 Saund. P1. & Ev.
527, 528; Anderson v. Lewis, 1 Freeman's Ch. Rep. 206; Bell
v. Hill, 1 Hayw. Rep. 95; Reigal v. Wood, 1 Johns. Ch. Rep.
406; Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 How. U. S. Rep. 318; Barnesley
v. Powell, 1 Ves. 120; Pope u. Anderson, 1 Smed. & Marsh.
Ch. Rep. 156.
Levy's entire defence rests on this unauthorized contract made
by Davis; and a contract too which the only evidence (that of
Davies) establishing its existence, proves conclusively to have
been obtained by fraud. And will a court of equity, under such
circuistances, enforce it?
The counsel for the appellee made the following points.
Point 1. The arrangement made by Davis was warranted by
the letter of attorney; regarding that in connection with, and explaining it by, the other facts in the case.
The debt was not due within about three years. All the interest accrued was overpaid. Levy was looked upon as insolvent, anc the mortgaged property not worth the debt.
The power of attorney not only authorized Davis to collect
and receipt for money due Very, but to sell, trade, and dispose
of the bond and mortgage in question, and to assign-the same.
Davis's testimony shows that this power, though general in its
terms as to any and all debts, was really intended to apply only
to this identical debt. It is very evident that the real object of
the power was to enable Davis to dispose of the claim, or make
some kind of compromise or arrangement by which it might be
closed up at once. The letter of Davis himsdlf shows thai it

852

SUPREME COURT.
Very v. Levy.

had already been in contemplation to allow Levy to pay the
debt in goods, and that it was thought to'be only just to give
him the refusal, in offering the claim for sale, and he was applied
to accordingly.
When this was done, Davis owned part of the claim. He
says in his testimony that such was the case, but that when be
made the arrangement he no longer had an interest. He did
not tell Levy that.- And if he no longer had an interest in the
claim, why was the power of attorney expressly declared to be
irrevocable ?
In considering whether the arrangement made by Davis was
within the power conferred, it is legitimate to consider whether
a proposal to receive payment in 'goods at -a fair price was an
unusual or extraordinary inducement to be held out in order to
procure purchasers for a debt not due within three years;
whether Very could have imagined that such a claim could be
disposed of, traded, or sold, without some discount or change of
the mode of payment; whether it was to be expected that Levy
would pay the whole debt in money at that time.
Davis had a general power given him to sell, trade, or dispose
of the claim. He was not limited as to the person to whom he
should sell, or the mode in which the price should be paid. No
one can doubt that if he had sold it to a third person for goods
or jewelry, part paid at oncep, and part to be paid in twelve
months, the sale would have been within the power, for surely
there is no warrant to say that an unqualified power to sell a
debt limits the agent to sell for cash.
And as there was no restriction as to the person, it was quite
as competent to him to sell to Levy as to any one else. It was
natural to expect that Levy would give more than any one else.
Again, how was the power to collect to be exercised, except
by a compromise of some kind. The debt was not due, and
could not be collected by law. It could only be collected by the
consent of Levy, ii consent not to be expected without any consideration. Taking the whole language of the power together,
it is obvious-that Very meant to dispose of the claim in some
way to some person, and the previous letter of Davis shows
that the object was to dispose of it to Levy for goods, at a discount.

All grants of power are to be construed liberally, so as to
meet the ends and purposes of the parties. Kenworthy v. Bate,
6 Ves. 793; Nicoldt v. Pillot, 24 Wend. 240; North River Bank
v. Rogers, 22 Id. 649; McMorris v. Simpson, 21 Wend. 612.
For the general rules as t6 the construction of powers, we
need refer only to 2 Sugden on Pow. c. 8, 9, 18; 22 Wend 651;
1 Wash. C. Q: R. 457.

DECEMBER TERM, 18.51.

858

Very v. Levy.

In Parsons v. Administrators of Gaylord, (3 J. th 463,) C gave
his bond to B; on payment of which B was to convey land to
him. B delivered the bond to F with authority to receive payment; F took a note in payment of it. Held that his agency
authorized this, and B's subsequent dissent 'made no difference,
but the bond was extingaished.
The extent of a power given to an agent is deducible as well
from facts as from express obligation. In the estimate of such
facts, the law has regard to public security, and often applies
the rule that he who trusts must pay. Parsons v. Armor & Oakly, 3 Pet. 428.
In law, however it may be in words or technical language,
there is no difference between a general agency, so far as the
principal is concerned, when considering what acts bind' him,
and ail agency giving the agent general and unlimited power to
do any particular act or transact ary particular business, without pointing out the mode of doing the act. Story on Agency,
sects. 17, 18, 127, V. 1, 128, 129, 133; Andrews v. Kneeland, 6"
Cow. 354; Jeffrey v. Bigelow, 13 Wend. 518; Planters Bank
v. Cameron, et al. 3 S. & M. 613; 2 Kent 617, 620; Sandford
v. Handy, 23 Wend. 266; Le Roy v. Beard, 8 How. S. C. .
466; Anderson v. Cowley, 21 Wend. 279.
In either case, all the incidents necessary to effectuate the objects of the power are implied and go with it. A power shall
be construed as a plain man Nvould understand it. Withington
v. Herring, 5 Bing. 442.
Point 2. Even if the acts of Davis were originally an excess
of power, they were so acquiesced in and ratified by Very, that
he was ever after estopped to repudiate the agreement.
Undoubtedly so far as goods whre actually received, it was 9
good payment. Notice to the agent is notice to the principal;
and if Very had any ground to complain that his agent had
acted in bad faith, or transcended his authority; if he meant not
to abide by the contract made by him, good faith required that
he should at once notify Levy of that deternination. There isno pretence that he did so, or that he was at all dissatisfied. So
far as the goods were received, he acc.epted them. That appears
in the bill itself.
Suppose Levy had, during the year, delivered the residue ofthe goods, could Very then have repudiated the acts of his
agent? And if fhat agent had authority to receive goods in
payment, had he not authority to agree and contract to secure
them?
Iri his bill of complaint, Very expressly states, as one of the
payments made on the bond, the sum of $1,898.25, without explanation or qualification, and exhibits the bond, with the
-300*

$54

SUPREME COURT.
Yery v. Levy.

indorsement, "Received on the within, in goods, the sum of
eighteen hundred and ninety-eight dollars and twenty-five cents,
March 8,- 1843, Martin Very, by J. S. Davis." This is an explicit admisE)on that he received the goods, an admission that
it was a valid payment, and an admission either of an original
authority in Davis to receive pay in goods, or of a ratification
by Very of his act in receiving them.
How can he profit by the act of his agent by adopting part
of the transaction and repudiating the residue ? Especially how
can he do this, when the latter was the prize given by his agent
for the benefit which he did not object to accept. Le Roy v.
Beard, 8 How. 466.
Under the authority given by the power of attorney, and in
pursuance of the previous proposition contained in the letter,
Davis received nearly two thousand dollars in goods, and agreed
in writing to receive the residue within twelve months. Can
Very be allowed, after thus inducing Levy to pay, in goods and
money, the whole debt to within a little over two thousand
dollars, can he be allowed, after thus getting the debt reduced
to not much more, if not actually less than the value of the
mortgaged property, to enforce it. against that property, repudiating the agreement made for him and in his name, by his
agent?
And though Davis denies in his testimony that the receipt of
the goods actually accepted, and the written agreement to receive the residue in the same way, were concurrent acts and
parts of a single transaction, yet his own letter and all the circumstances infallibly demonstrate that this is an Atter falsehood, knd that Levy paid the amount in goods long before it
was due, in consideration of the promise to receive the residue
in the same way, or in performance of the very written agreeInent itself.
On what ground is Very to be allowed to escape from this
firm contract, made by his agent in his name, in pursuance of
an ample power? Righter -v. Steel et ux. 3 Sandford, Ch. R.
608.
It is perfectly evident-that Davis executed the power in entire
good faith towards Very. All the circumstances show that he
did precisely what was intended to be done; and his statement, that he afterwards wrote to Levy to turn over the residue of the goods to a particular person at Little Rock, makes
the proof-on this point conclusive, and shows that all that Davis
did was ratified.
No weight is due to, the statement of Davis that Levy declined turning over the residue of the goods, because it is inconsistent with the undeniable fact that he always retained the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

855

Very v. Levy.

goods, kept them apart, did not expose them to ale, said they
were to go in payment of the debt; because the letter is not
produced, and was rather too important to be lost, and because
the refusal may have been a qualified one, on good grounds,
which the letter would show.
Point 3. The arrangement so made extinguished the original
debt and mortgage.
As was held by the Supreme Court of Arkansas -in Levy v.
Very, above cited, if the agreement of Very, by his agent Davis,
had been under seal, it would, together with the payment made.
in goods, have completely extinguished the original obligation,
and been pleadable in bai at law.' See also Case v. Barber, Sir
T. Raym. 450; Thatcher v. Dudley et ux. 2 Root, 169; Good
v. Cheeseman, 2 Barn. & Ad. R. 328; Cartwright, Adm. v. Cook,
3 Id. 701 ; Coie & Woolsey v. Houston, 3 Johns. Cas. 243; Boyd
v. Hitchcock, 20 J. R. 76; Watkinson v. Inglesby & Stokes, 5
J. R. 386; Strong v. Holmes, 7 Cow. 224; Brooks v. White, 2
Met. 283 ; McCreary v. McCreary, 5 Gill & Johns. 147; Downer
v. Sinclair, 15 Verm. 495.
In a court of equity the technical law rule that a contract can
only be dissolved eo lig'anine quo ligatur, disappears altogether;
a rule which originally prevented absolute payment in money,
of a bond, being pleaded at law. A court of equity looks through
the form to the substanice, and an unsealed agreement, the substance being the same, avails there, to precisely the same lextent
as a sealed one.
And then the- principle applies, as established in Pennel's
case, 5 Co. 117, that, though payment of a less sum, on the day,
in satisfaction of the greater, cannot be a satisfaction of the
whole; yet the gift of a horse, or 'the like, in satisfaction, is
good, for it shall be intended that the horse might be more beneficial to the party than the money, or he would not have -cceptsatisfaction.
it in where
ed And
any other articles than money are received, and
agreed to be accepted in full satisfaction of a debt, the couit
will not estimate their value in money's worth, but hold the consideration to be good, and the promise to discharge the entire
debt a valid contract. Brooks v. White, 2 Mete. 283; Boyd v.
Hitchcock, 20 J. R. 76; Kellogg v. Richards, 14 Wend. 116.
The law of tender has nothing whatever to do with this case.
The agreement was, that Very would receive th6 residue of
his debt in goods, "to be called for" within twelve months.
No tenderwas necessary. Levy was only bound to deliver the
goods, when. called on. Of course, his store was the place of delivery. If he kept the goods there, ready to be delivered, and
remained always ready, that was enough.

356

SUPREME 'COURT.
Very v. Levy.

No specified day, and no place, being Lxed for the delivery of
the residue of the goods, Levy could not be in default until Very
had called for the goods, and he had refused to deliver them.
His store was the place of delivery., This is well settled. Vance
v. Bloomer, 20 Wend. 199; La Farge v. Rickert, 5 Wend. 187;,
- Robbins v. Lute, 4 Mass. 475; Morton v. Wells, 1 Tyler, 386;
Admrs. of Conn v. Ex. of Gano, 1 Ohio, 483; Savary v. Goe,.3 W"ash. C. C. R. 140; Sheldon v. Skinner, 4 Wend. 525;
Cranche v. Fastolfe, Sir T. Raym, 418; Ranson v. Johnson,
1 East, 203; Whitehouse v. Fros4 12 Id. 615.; Mitchell v. Merrill, 2 Blackf. 89; 1 Hill, 523; 2 Hill, 252; Coie v. Houston,
3 "Johns.Cas. 243.
After the end of the year, Levy held the -goods as trustee
of Very, and at his risk. 4 Wend. 529; 8 J. R. 478; 3 Johns.
Cas. 258. And it made no difference that the goods of Very
were- mixed with his own, part of a large quantity. Whitehouse v. Frost, ubi sup.
As to Davis's testimony in regard to the statements of Levy,
on which he was induced to make the arrangement, and their
falsehood, it is directly contradicted by his- ovn letter, which
shows that the proposition came from himself, and *was made
to Levy before Davis went to Little Rock, for reasons and frem
motives wholly different from those stated by him in his depo-

siton.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court
This is a suit in equity to foreclose a mortgage, commenced
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of'
Arkansas. The bill alleges that on the 3d of March, 1841, the
respondent, Levy, executed his writing obligatory~for the sum
of four thousand dollars, bearing interest at the rate of seven
Per cent, per annum, payable to Darwin Lindsley in six years
after its date, and ,spo.ured the same by a mortgage on certain
premises situated in thei city of Little Rock; that by assignment
from Lindsley the complainant beca.ne the owner of this bond
and mortgage on the 25th of March, 1841, and the bill prays for
-an account and foreclosure.
The answer of Levy admits the execution of a bond and
mortgage, and their assignment to the complainant, and avers
that'on the 3d of March: 1843, he agreed with the complainant,
through one John S. Davis, his agent, to deliver goods, such as
jewelry, &c., in which the respondent deal , at Little-Rock, upon
reasonable prices, in satisfaction of this bond and mortgage,
within twelve months from the 3d of March, 1843; that in
pursuance of that agreement he did actually deliver on that day
a part of the goods, agreed to be of thu value of $1,898M, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Very v.

Levy..

afterwards, on the same day, the complainant, through his agent,
Davis, signed and delivered to the respondent a mmorandum
in writing as follows:
" Little Rock, March 3d, '43. I hereby agree to take in
goods, such as jewelry, &c., the balance due me on a note
assigned by D. Lindsley to me, as also a mortgage assigned
by said Lindsley; said goods to be delivered to me, or any
agent at Little Rock, Arkansas, at reasonable prices at. said
Little Rock; said goods to be called for within twelve months
from this time. Martin Very. By J. S. Davis, Attorney in fact."
That in further pursuance of this agreement, the respondent
kept in his hands, and ready for-delivery, and withdrawn from'
his trade, a sufficient amount of goods, such as are referred to
in the memorandum, during the whole year which elapsed after
the making of the agreement, and was constantly rzady and
willing to deliver the same at Little Rock, but the complainant was not there, and did not -autharize any one to receive
them; that the respondent has ever since been ready and willing to perform his agreement, and offers to bring the goods into
court, or place them in the hands of a receiver. The court
below appointed a receiver, ascertained the amount of ,goods
necessary to satisfy the unpaid residue of the bond, ordered the
receiver, upon demand, to deliver the same to the complainant,
in full satisfaction of the bond and rhortgage, decreed the moit.
gage satisfied, and ordered the complainant to pay the costs.
From this decree the complainant appealed.
An agreement by a creditor, to receive specific articles in
satisfaction of a money debt, is binding on his conscience; and
if he ask the aid of a court of equity to 'nforce the payment,
he can receive that aid only t6 compel satisfaction in the
mode in which he has agreed to accept it. A court of equity
will even go further; and in a proper case will enforce the execution.of such an agreement. At law, a mere accord is not a
defence; and before breach bf a sealed instrument, there is a
technical rule, which prevents such an instrument from being
discharged, except by matter of as high a nature as the deed
itself. Alden v. Blague, Cro. Jac. 99; Kaye v. Waghorne, 1
Taunt. 428; Bayley v. Homan, 3 Bin. N. C. 915. But no.
such difficulties exist in equity. On the broad principle that
what has been agreed to be done, shall be considered as done,
the court will treat the creditor as if lie had acted conscien'
tiously, and Accepted in _satisfaction, what 'he had agreed td
accept, and what it was his own fault only that he had not received. Indeed, even a comut of law, in a case free from the
technical difficulties above noticed, will do the same thing.
Bradly v. Gregory, 2 Camp. 333.

358

SUPREME COURT.
very v. Levy.

In order, however, to bring a case wi'hin these principles,
three things are necessary. An agreement, not inequitable in
its terms and effect; a valuable consideration for such agreement; readiness to perform and the absence of laches on the
part of the debtor.
In this case the agreement was in writing, and one objection to it, made by the complainant-is, that the person who execubed it on his behalf was not authorized to do so. The authority was ir. writing, and gave the attorney "full power and
authority to trade, sell, and dispose of any notes, bills, bonds,
or mortgages, held or owned by me, on any resident, or residents of the State of Arkansas." Acting under this power,
Davis did actually accept a partial payment in goods, amounting to $1,898.25, and, signed the memorandum in -writing,
which is relied on. The bond being produced, bears the following indorsement:
, Received on the within, in goods, the sum of eighteen hundred and ninety-eight dollars and twenty-live cents, March td,
1843. Martin Very. By IL S. Davis."
The coxiplainant, in his bill, treats this as a payment, and it
does not appear that he made any objection to it, though Davis
says, in one of his letters, he thought the prices were too high.
Upon this state of facts we are of opinion Davis had authority
to enter into the agreement in question. Besides the power to
collect and sell, is the power to trade this bond and mortgage.
It might be difficult to attach auy general legal signification to
this word. But considered in reference tc the particular facts
of this case we think its meaning sufficiently clear.
It is proved by Davis, that the power, though general in its
terms, was given solely in reference to this particular bond and
,mortgage. The bond had yet four years to run. When, therefore, Davis was authorized to collect this bond, the parties
to the letter of attorney must have had in view some agreement respecting its extinguishment, which should vary its
original terms of payment; and when he was further empowered
to trade it; it is not an inadmissible interpretation that the new
agreement for its extinguishment, which h. was empowered to
make, might be an agreement to receive specific articles in payment. It'has been said that special powers are to be construed
strictly. If by this is mean, that neither the agent, nor a third
person aealing with him in that 'character, can claim under the
power any authority which they had not a right to understand
its language -conveyed, and that the authority is not to be extended by mere-general words beyond the 'object in view, the
position, is correct But if the words in question touch only the
particular mode in which an object, admitted to be within the

DECEMBER' TERM, 185.1.

859

Very v. Levy.

power, is to be effected, and they are ambiguous, and with a
a reasonable attention to them would bear the interpretation on
which both the agent and a third person have acted, the
principal is bound, although upon a more refided and critical
examination the court mightbe of opinion that a different construction would be more correct. Le Roy v. Beard, 8 Howard,
451; Loraine v. Cartwright, 3 Wash. C. C. R. 161; De Tastett
v. Crousillat, 2 Wash. C. C. R. 132; 1 Liv. on Agency, 403,
404; Story on Agency, sect. 74. Such an instrument is generally to be construed, as a plain man, acquainted with the object in view, and attending reasonably to the language used,
has in fact construed it. He is not bound to take the opinion
of a lawyer concerning the meaning of a word not technical, and
apparently employed in a popular sense. Witherington v. Herring, 5 Bing. 466.
In this case, the complainant, besides empowering Davis to
collect a bond not yet payable, has authorized him to trade it, a word frequently used in popular language to signify an exchange of one article for another, by way of -barter.
This power was intended by the complainant to be acted on
by the respondent, a jeweller, in the State of Arkansas, and we
think he cannot complain that it was understood in its popular
sense; more especially when he accepted, without objection,
goods amounting to $1,898.25, and gave the defendant no notice
of his dissent from that construction of the power under, which
his agent received them, in part payment of the bond.
But it is insisted that, if Davis had authority to receive those
goods in part payment, lie had not power to enter into an executory agreement to receive the others. This might have presented a question of some difficulty, if the effect of that agreement had been to give a credit to the obligor, or to'subject the
principal to any risk, or place his claim in any less advantageous
position than it would have been in if no contract had been
made in reference thereto.
It must be borne in mind, that it is proved by Marcus Dotter
and Emanuel Levy, and other witnesses, that the defendant had
on hand more than sufficient goods, of the description mentioned, at the time the other goods were delivered and' the
memorandum signed. By the memorandum, the - residue of the
goods was to be delivered, at any time within twelve months,
when called for by the complainant. The defendant was
obliged to keep this amount of these goods constantly on hand,
and ready for delivery. He could, therefore, gain nothing by
delay. On the other hand, the complainant might have found it
more convenient not to take all at one time; the bond bore
interest, which was accruing by the delay; and if the defendant,

860

SUPREME" COURT.
Very v. Levy.

upon demand, shourd fail to comply, the bond would remain in
force,:and no right of the complainant to the money debt, or its
security by the mortgage, would be prejudiced.*
Under these circumstances, we are of opinion that, as Davis
had authority to receive payment in goodg, he had also authority to enter into this agreement, having the same object in view,
and providing for its accomplishment in a -way apparently more
bene4cial for the creditor than the receipt o:f all the goods at the
time Ihe arrangement was made.
That the agreement itself imports a ccnsideration, deemed
by the law valuable, there can be no doubt An agreement to
give a less sum for a greater, if the time of payment be anticipated, is binding; the reason being, as e:pressed in, Pennel's
case, (5 Co. R. 117,) that peradventure parcel of the sum, before
the day, would be more beneficial than the whole sum on the
day. Coke's Lit. 212, b; Com. Dig. Accord, B. 2; Brooks v.
White, 2 Met. 283. And when the time of payment is not anticipated, the law deems the delivery of specific articles a good
satisfaction of a money debt, because it will intend them to be
more valu._ble than the money to the creditcr who has consented
to the arrangement. Bac. Ab. Accord, A; Pennel's case, 5
Co. R. 117; Booth v. Smithb, 3 Wend. 66; Kellogg v. Richards,
14 Wend. 116;. Steinman P. Magnus, 11 East, 390; Lewis v.
Jones, 4 B. & C. 513. ,
In this case, both these rules apply; for the time of payment
was to be anticipated, and specific articles delivered.
We consider it also clearly proved, that the defendant has been
ready to perform at all -imes since the agreement was "Made.
-It is said by Davis that, in 1844, January, he thinks, be addressed a letter to Levy, requesting him to pay the money
coming to Very in jewelry, watches, &c.; and also requested
him to put them up, and deliver them to Mvr. Waring, in Little
Rock; and that Levy declined paying, as requested. That he
has searched for Levy's letter, but cannot find it.
It is certainly highly improbable that Levy, who had had
these goods on hand, and set apart from his trade, ready for
delivery, ever after the agreement was made, should have thus
refused to deliver them.
He produces a letter of Davis, which, though it bearB date
on the 3d of February, 1844, is undoubtedly the letter Davis
speaks of, and is as follows:
"New Albany, Feb.3, 1844. Dear sir,-If you cam pay the
balance of your note in good silver or gold watches, and good
jewelry, at fair prices, say about half of each,. or two thirds
"wOthes, you will please "notify me of the fact by return mail,
end I will send on for them at once. The things you let me

DECE3BER TERM, 1851.
Very v. Levy.

have before were too high, at least Mr. Very says so. Let me
hear from you. I am, your friend. John S. Davis. Mr. J.
Levy."
It thus appears, Davis was mistaken in supposing he designated a person in Little Rock to receive the goods; and unless
it was the purpose of this letter to vary the original understanding of the parties in respect to the proportion of watches to be
delivered,, it is difficult to s~er what fair object it could have
had. The testimony of Davis that Levy refused, without
undortaking to state the contents of Levy's letter, or the substance of its contents, cannot be deemed sufficient to prove a
refusal by Levy to perform his contract. Before the defendant
can be prejudiced by testimony of a refusal, it is reasonable the
court should know what it was. It certainly was not a refusal
to deliver the goods to Waring, as Davis says, for Waring was
not mentioned by Davis in his letter. The conduct of Davis in
this matter is somewhat strange. He made the memorandum
in writing as Very's agent, agreeing to accept payment of the
balance of the bond in these articles; he delivered io Very
the jewelry received, but says he did not tell Very of the
contract to receive the balance in goods; and eleven months
after-wards he wrote the letter of the 3d of February, which
seems to be a new proposal, as if .no contract had yet been
made on the subject; he misstates the contents of his own
letter in a material particular, says he has lost Levy's letter,
but the latter declinelfpaying as requested. We are not satisfied that a breach of contract by Levy, or any laches on his
part, is made out.
It is asserted by the complainant's counsel that the contract
was void on account of Levy's fraud; that it -was obtained
from Davis by false statements and the suppression of material
facts by Levy, and, of course, cannot be the basis of any right
in a court of equity.
But this ground is not open to the complainant. No fraud is
charged in the bill, and though the complainant may not have
anticipated, when the bill was filed, that this contract would be
set up in the answer as a defence, yet on the-coming in of the
answer he might have amended his bill, as he did in another
particular, a% -rringthat if any such agreement was in fact made,.
it was void, and charging in what the fraud consisted. Not
having done so, he cannot now avail himself of it. Besides the
evidence comes in a very irregular way, and is wholly unsatisfactory. It is brought out by Davis, in answer to interrogatories which do not call for any statements touching such subjects,
but relate to wholly different matters. Thus the 19th interrogatory inquires: "For what reason was the agreement, marked
VOL. XIII.

31

862

SUPREME COURT.
Very v. Levy.

B, given or executed, if ever executed." To this Davis replies:
"That said agreement was executed and delivered for several
reasons: The first of which reasons was, that Levy represented
that he had expended large sums of money in defending suits for
the benefit of Very, and for the purpose of saving Very from losing
the money for which-this suit is brought; the second reason was,
that said Levy represented himself as insolvent or wholly unable to pay the. debt due Very; and thirdly, that the property
mortgaged was of little value, and would only pay at best a very
small portion of the money intended to Ie secured by the mortgage; all which statements and representation thus made by
said Levy, said Davis, subsequent to the signing and delivering
said agreement, found to be false."
The 20th interrogatory inquires, "What was the inducement
and consideration for giving and executing the said agreement
B?" To this he answers: "That the inducement and consideration for giving and executing agreement "B" were the false representations of said Levy of his circumstances, the value of the
property mortgaged, and that he, said Levy, had paid large sums
of money to save said debt secured by said mortgage for said
Very; these statements and representations were made before
and at the time said agreement "B" was executed 2nd delivered, and said Davis then believed them to be true, but subsequently found them to be false."
This is all the testimony in support of the charge of fraud.
What he means, when he says he subsequently found the representations to be false, he does not explain. That he had any
personal knowledge of their falsehood he does not say; and his
statement indicates only that, by subsequent inquiry, and the information elicited thereby, he became satisfied that he was de.
ceived. It would not be in conformity with settled rules of
pleading and evidence in courts of equity, to convict a party of
a fraud, not charged on the record, and brought out for the first
time by the voluntary statements of -a witness in answer to no
question, and resting at last upon mere hearsay.
The decree of the Circuit Court is aflimed, with costs.
Ord6r.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Arkansas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, anfi.ed, with costs.

