DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

101

Williamson et al. v. Barrett ot al.

EUcLID WILLIAMSON,. THOMAS F. ECKERT, AND JOHN WILLIAXSON, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. ALEXANDER B. BARRETT,
ROBERT CLARK, NATHANIEL D. TERRY, HENRY LYNE, JAMES
T. DONALDSON, WILLIAM BROWN, AND .THN B. SPROWLE.
The usage upon the River Ohio is, that when the steamboats are approaching each
other in opposite directions, and a collision is-apprehended, the descending boat
must stop her engine, ring her bell, and float; leaving the option to the ascending
boat how to pass.
The descending boat was not bound to back her engines, and it was correct in the Circuit Court to refuse leaving to the jurythe question ilh ether or not, infact, such backing of the engines would have prevented the collision, where the ascending boat was
manifesting an intention to cross the river.
Thes proper measure of damages is a sum sufficient to raise the sunken boat, repair her
and compensate the owners for the loss of her use during the time when she was
being refitted.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the District of Ohio.
It was an action of treipass on the case brought by the owners of the steamboat Major Barbour, (the defendants in error,)
against the owners of the Paul Jones, another steamboat, for injuries resulting from a collision between the boats.
On the 3d of February, 1848, at a place upon the Ohio Riqer,
about one hundred miles below Louisville, the Major Barbour
was descending the river, and a collision ensued between her and
the Paul Jones, which was ascending; by means of which the
Major Barbour became filled with water and sunk.
On the 17th of February, 1848, Barrett and others being citizens of Kentucky, brought an action of trespass on the case,
against Williamson and the other owners of the Paul Jones, in
the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of Ohio.
In October, 1849, the cause came on for trial upon the general
issue plea. The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs for $6,714.29.
The following is the bill of exception taken upon the trial.
" Seventh Circuit Court of the United States, Ohio District, Alexander B. Barrett, Robert Clark, Nathaniel D. Terry,
Henry Lyne, James T. Donaldson, William Brown, John B.
Sprowle, v. Euclid Williamson, Thomas F. Eckert, John Williamson. Be it remembered, that on. the trial of this cause,
evidence was given, showing that before and at the time
of the collision mentioned in the pleadings in this cause, the
plaintiffs' boat, the Major Barbour, was descending the Ohio
River, and the defendants' boat, the Paul Jones, was ascending
the same river, and heavily loaded, and the Major Barbour was
light, the Paul Jones being a much larger boat than the Major
Barbour.
It was claimed by the plaintiffs, and testimony offered by them,
tending to show that their boat was descending the middle
9*

102

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Barrett et al.

of the river, and that the collision took place at or about the
middle of the river.
It was claimed on the part of the defendants, and evidence
was offered to show, that their boat was ascending near the Indiana shore, and that the plaintiffs' boat was also running near
that shore, and that the collision took place neai that shore. The
.plaintiffs also offered evidence tending to show that the Paul
Jones, a short time before the collision, suddenly turned out of the
Indiana shore, and ran across the river into the plaintiffs' boat;
and the defendants offered evidence tending to'show that the plaintiffs' boat, a short time before the collision, suddenly turned out
from the Indiana shore, and crossed the bow of the Paul Jones.
Evidence was also given tending to show that the engines of
the plaintiffs' boat were stopped, and the boat floated for some
time previous to the collision; but it was admitted that she did
not back her engines; and it was claimed by the plaintiffs that
she was not bound by the rules or usages of navigation to back
her engines.
Evidence was also given tending to show that the Paul Jones,
some time previous to the collision, stopped her engines, and
then reversed her engines to back the bo4t, and made from one
to three revolutions back, and was actually backing at the time
.of collision.
And it was claimed by the plaintiffs, that their boat's engines
were stopped, and the boat floating as soon as danger of collilision was anticipated; and on thp part of the defendants it was
claimed, that the said Major Barbour's engines were not stopped
sufficiently early, and that owing to that, and her not attempting to back her engines, she contributed to the collision.
The plaintiffs and defendants also offered evidence of pilots
on the Ohio River, tending to show that boats navigating the
Ohio River, were bound to observe the following rules in passing
each other: The boat descending, in case of apprehended difficulty or collision, was bound to stop her engines, agd float at
a suitable distance, so as to stop her headway; and the boat
ascending should do the dodging or manceuvring. And some
of the pilots also testified, that it was also the duty of both boats
to back their engines, so as to keep the boats apart when danger
was apprehended, and'to do all they could to prevent a collision;
but the greater part of them said the rule of the river required
the descending boat to stop its engines and float, being at the
place of collision, near the middle of the river. And the defendantW' counsel asked the court to instruct the jury that, if by
backing the Barbour's engine, in addition to stopping and floating, the collision could have been avoided, and the plaintiffs did
not back her engines; the plaintiffs could rot recover, and that

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

103

Williamson et al. v. Barrett et al.

plaintiffs were bound to make use of all the means she had to
prevent a collision. And thereupon the court charged "the jury
as follows :
That if the Major Bkrbour was in her proper track for a descending boat, as proved bkr several witnesses, near the middle
of the river, and the Paul Jonep in ascending the river was in
her proper track, near the Indiana shore, and she turned out of
her proper course, across the river, or quartering, in the language
of some of the witnesses, so as to threaten a collision with the
Major Barbour; aid that as soon as this was discovered the
Major Barbour stopped her engine, rang her bell, "and ,floated
down the stream, as the custom of the river required, leaving
the ascending boat the choice of sides, and this was the law-of
the river, that on the near approach of the Major she was piot
required to back her engines, as that might bring her 141 contact
with the other boat, bvit might presume that the Paunl Jones did
not intend to run into her, and that for an injury done to the
Major Barbour under such circumstances, by the Paul Jones
running into her, the plaintiffs are entitled to recover such damages, as appears from the evidence was done to the Major Bqrbour.
That if the Major Barbour turned out of her course, running
near the Indiana shore, and this turning out of her course contributed to the collision, the plaintiffs could not recover. That
where both boats were in fault, the plaintiffs could not recover.
That in such case, the fault of the Major Barbour must be such as
led to or contributed to the collision. That if the collision was the
result of an unavoidable accident the plaintiffs cbuld not recover.
That should the jury find for the plaintiffs, they will give da.
mages which shall remunerate the plaintiff for the damages incurred, necessarily, in raising the boat, and'in repairing her; and
also for the use of her during the -time necessary to make the
repairs and fit her for business. That the jury were not bound
to give interest, as claimed by the plaintiffs, but they would give
such sum in damages as they *shall deem just and equitable
under the circumstances.
To which charge of the court so far as it relates to charging
that the Major Barbour was not required to back her engines,
but might presume that the Paul Jones did not intend to run
into her; and also to so much of the charge as directs the jury
that they might give damages for the use of the boat during the
time necessary to make the repairs and fit her for business; and
also to the refusal of the gourt to charge or instruct the jury as
rqquested, the defendants, by their counsel, except, and pray this
their bill of exceptions may be signed and sealed, which is done
and ordered to be made a pat of the record.
JOHN MCLEAN,

[SEAA.

H. M. ILEAVITT, LsRAL.]

104

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Barrett etal.

Upon this -xception, the case came up to this court and was
argued by Mrh1'. Chase and Air. Lincoln, for the plaintiffs in error,
and by lr. CWittenden, for tha lefendants In error. A brief was
also filed by Mr.Fox, for the plaintiffs in Error.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error, contended that the aetrespass on the
tion should have been "trespass" and not "'
case," because the declaration charged the Lct to have been done
by the defendants below, they being in possession of the boat
at the time.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error then contended, that
there were errors in the instructions of the court, both as to the
collision and the damages.
1. As, to the collision, what was the question before the court
below, and- upon which the jury were to dezide ?
It was this. Was the defendants' boat navigated carelessly
or unskilfully, and was the. plaintiffs' boat from that cause injured. If so, did the plaintiffs in any way substantially contribute to such injury. The plaintiffs below were bound, 1st, to
make out fault in those navigating the Paul Jones, directly
causing their damage, and 2d, a freedom of those navigating the
Major Barbour from any fault substantially contributing to the
same.
If the plaintiffs below contributed in any way or to any extent, if they were in fault, although in a much less degree than
the defendants, and such fault substantially contributed to the
injury, they were not entitled to a verdict.
The judgment, if rendered, was to be for the whole damages,
and the jury had no right to distinguish between the degrees of
fault of the parties. Of. this there is no dispute. I refer the
-court to a few of the many authorities upon the above position.
Pluckwell v. Wilson, 24 E. C. L. Rep. 368; 5 Carr. & Payne,
375; Luxford v. Large, 24 E. C. L. Rep. 391; 5 Carr. & Payne,
421; Handyside v. Wilson, 14 E. C. L. Rep. 429; 3 Carr. &
Payne, 527; 'Wolf v. Beard, 34 E. C. L. Rep. 43.5; 8 Carr. &
Payne, 373; Sills v. Brown, 38 E. C. L. Rep. 248; 9 Carr. &
Payne, 601; New Haven, &c. v. Vanderbilt, 16 Conn. Rep.
420.
There are numerous others to the same effect. There is nothingto be found in the books in opposition to the following statement of the law, taken from the case of Pluckwell v. Wilson, a
case of collision between carriages:
"It is for the jury to say whether the injury to the plaintiff's
chaise was occasioned by negligence on the part o'f the defendant's servants, without any negligence on the part of the plaintiff himself; for if the plaintiff's negligence were in any way
concerned in producirg the Injury, he cannot recover."

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

1 105

Williamson et al. v. Barrett et al.

Chancellor Kent very briefly states the rule thus: " But according to the English and American rules in the courts of common law, if there be fault or want of care on both sides, or the
loss happen without fault on either side, neither party can sue
the other." 3 Kent's Com. 5th Ed. 231.
The question to be tried, then, was one of negligence or want
of care.
2. Upon the subject of edmages, the counsel contended that
the court erred in charging the jury that the plaintiffs below
could recover for lost time or for-compensation for the use of the
boat while undergoing repairs, there being no allegation of such
damages.
There are authorities against such damages in cases where
the pleadings are properly framed. Blanchard v. Ely, 21 Wend.
343; Boyd v. Brown, 17 Pick. 453; The Anna Maria, 2 Wheat.
327; The Amiable Nancy, 2 Wheat. 546; De Armistad de Rue,
5 Wheat. 385; Smith v. Condry, 1 How. 28; Conrad v. Pacific
Insurance Company, 6 Pet. 262.
The case of Blanchard v. Ely, is direct to the point.
They are considered too speculative, or problematical. The
use of the boat might have been of benefit, or might have involved the plaintiff in trouble; might have sunk them money by,
unprofitable business, or by a collision with some other boat, or
she might have sunk by a danger of the river. It is not at all
certain that she would have been of any value to them.
I admit, however, that there are cases directly in opposition
to Blanchard v. Ely. But they are cases where there was a
special allegation of such damages, and in'that, the case before
the court is distinguished from them.
There was such allegation in the case of New Haven Steamboat & Transp. Co. v. Vanderbilt, 16 Conn. 420.
Also in the cases of Haldeman v. Beckwith, which was before
this court two years ago. The declarations were so similar to
these two cases, that I had that in the former case printed for
the use of this court, when the case of Haldeman v. Beckwith
was before them. See Appendix, A. In the report of the case
in the 16th Conn. it does not appear that there was a special
allegation of loss of time, and that the declaration gave the
party direct notice of his claim. But there was such allegation.
Such damages could not be recovered in this case, unless it be
what the law dnominates general damages.
The object of pleading is to give notice to the other party of
the claim set up, that he may come prepared to defend it; and
nothing can be recovered but that which naturally and necessa.
rily flows from what is alleged.
From the declaration in this case, no one would suppose, that

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Barrett et al.

any thing but a total loss of the boat would be claimed. An
entirely different claim was, however, interposed.
In case of a total loss, the value of the boat is the rule of
damages. The Apollon, 9 Wheat. 362.
Now the expense of raising and repairing the boat, with com.
pensation for lost time, may have been much greater than the
whole value of the boat.
If that be the claim set up, the party would come prepared
with evidence, as to these points: was it prudent to raise and
repair her? was not the party too long in doing it? did he not
pay too much? and was not the value for use of the boat, as
given in evidence by him, greater than it really was?
These considerations show, I think, that the allegation for a
total loss does not necessarily or naturally include the damages
allowed.
(Upon both of the above points; the arguments of the counsel were very elaborate.)
Ir. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is* a writ of error to the Circui; Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio.
The plaintiffs in the court below, the defendants here, who
were the owners of the steamboat Major Barbour, brought an
action against the defendants, the owners of the steamboat
Paul Jones, to recover damages occasioned by a collision upon
the Ohio River on the 3d February, 1848.
The Major Barbour was descending the river at the time, and
the Paul Jones ascending, the latter heavily laden and of much
larger size than the former.
Evidence was given by the plaintiffs tending to show, that
their boat was about in the middle of the river at the time the
collision took place; that the defendants' b6at was ascending
the Indiana shore, ant that a short time before the collision she
suddenly changed her course and left the shore, running across
the river into the Major Barbour, causing the damage in question. While on the part of the defendants, it was claimed, and
evidence given to show, that the plaintiffs' boat was descending
near the Indiana shore, and that the collision occurred near that
shore, and that the plaintiffs' boat a short time before it happened suddenly turned out from the shore and ran across the
bow of the Paul Jones, causing the damage.
Evidence was also given tending to show that the engine of
the plaintiffs' boat was stopped, and the boat floated as soon as
the danger was discovered, and for some time previous to the
collision, but, it was admitted she did not back her engines, and
it was claimed that she was not bound to do so, according to

DECE-BER TERM, 1851.

107

Williamson et al. v. Barrett et al.

the rules and usages of the navigation. While,jon the part of
the defendants, it was claimed, and evidence given to show, that
the Paul Jones, some time before the collision, stopped her engines, and reversed the same to back the boat, and had made
from one to three revolutions back, and was actually backing at
the time of the collision; and also that the engines of the plain.
tiffs' boat were not stopped sufficiently early, and owing to that,
and not attempting to back her engines, she contributed to the
collision.
Evidence was further given tending to show, that boats navigating the Ohio river were bound to observe the following rules
in passing each other: The boat descending, in case of apprehended difficulties, or collision, was bound to stop her engines,
and float, at a suitable distance, so as to stop her headway;
and the boat ascending, to make the proper manwuvre to pass
freely.
When the evidence c!osed, the counsel for the defendants rdquested the court to instruct the jury, that the plaintiffs ought
not to recover, if the collision could have been avoided by reversing the engines and backing their boat, in addition to stop.
ping and floating; and, that the master was bound to use all the
means in his power to prevent a collision.
And thereupon, the court among other things charged, that if
the Major Barbour was in her proper track for a descending
boat, near the middle of the river, and the Paul Jones in ascending the river was in her proper track near the Indiana shore, and
the latter turned out of her proper course across the river or
quartering, as stated by some of the witnesses, so al to threaten
a collision; and that as soon as discovered, the Major Barbour
stopped her engine, rang her bell, and floated down the stream,
as the custom of the river required, leaving the ascending boht
the choice of sides to pass her, and this being the law of the
river, she was not, on the near approach of the boat, required to
back her engine, as that might bring her in contact with the
other boat. She had a right to presume the Paul Jones did not
intend to run directly into her. And that, if any injury was
done to the Major Barbour, the plaintiffs' boat, under such circumstances, by the Paul Jones running into her, the plaintiffs
were entitled to recover.
The court further charged, that, if the jury should find for the
plaintiffs, they ought to give such damages as would remunerate them for the loss necessarily incurTed in raising the boat,
and in repairing her; and also for the use of her during the time
-necessary to make the repairs, and fit her for business.
I. As to the first branch of the instruction. In order properly
to appreciate it. it is material to notice the relative position of

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Barrett et al.

the two boats at the time of the collision, which is assumed in
the instruction, and in respect to which circumstances it was
.given, and, as claimed by the plaintiffs, the jury would be warranted in finding. For, the principle stated was not laid down
as an abstract proposition, or rule of navigation, but one applicable to the state of the case specially referred to as supposed to
have been made out upon the evidence.
The case was this: The plaintiffs' boat was in her proper
track, descending the river near the middle, while the defendants'
was ascending the same in her proper track near the Indiana
shore. And as the boats were approaching each other in this
relative position " the Paul Jones, the defendants' boat, changed
her course across the river towards the mic'dle of the same, somewhat in an oblique direction according to some of the witnesses,
and thereby endangering a collision. That as soon as this was
discovered, the Major Barbour, the plaintiffs' boat, stopped her
engine, rang her bell and floated, as the custom of the navigation required, leaving to the other boat the option to pass either
her bow, or stern.
- It was upon this state of facts, the court instructed the jury
that the plaintiffs' boat was not bound to make the additional
manceuvre of backing her engines, as thft might, under the circumstances, have brought about the collision she was endeavoring to avoid; and, that for the injury done by the Paul Jones
running into her, the plaintiffs' were entitled to recover.
The counsel for the defendants had requested the court to
instruct the jury, that, if the plaintiffs' boat by backing her engines in addition to stopping, and floating, could have avoided
the collision, she was bound to do so, and the defendants were
not liable' as the master was responsible for the use of all the
means in his power to prevent it. And the error, supposed to
have been committed, consists in the refusal to give this instruction, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, and in giving
that which we have stated.
It is not to be denied that the Major Barbour, according to
the position of the boats as assumed in the instruction, had observed strictly the custom, and usages of the river. tut it is
claimed, that a state of facts had. occurred from the position of
the Paul Jones, whether by the fault of those in command or
hiot, that made it the duty of the master of the plaintiffs' boat
not sternly to have adhered to this usage, but, to have made the
movement insisted upon, if by so doing the accident could have
been avoided. This position is founded upon an exception to
the general law of the navigation as modified by the circumstances of the particular case, by which the master of the vessel
not in fault is bound to make every fair and reasonable effort,

DECEM3BER TERM, 1851.

109

Williamson et al. v. Barrett et al.

in the emergency, within his power, from due exercise of skill
and good seamanship, to avoid, if possible, the impending
calamity. Upon the water as upon the land, the law recognizes
no inflexible rule, the neglect of which by one party, will dispense with the exercise of ordinary care and caution in the
other. A man is not at liberty to cast himself upon an obstruction which has been made by the fault of another, and avail
himself of it, if he does not use common and ordinary caution to
avoid it. One person being in fault will' not dispense with
another's using ordinary care for himself.
And, undoubtedly, if a state of facts had been shown in this
case, arising out of the circumstances attending the sudden
change of the course of the Paul Jones, from which an inference
might fairly have been drawn, that it was the duty of the master of the Major Barbour not only to have stopped her engines,
but to have reversed them, and backed his boat, in order to avoid
the danger, and, that by so doing it might have been avoided,
the point should have been put to the jury, with the instruction,
if they so found, the plaintiffs could not recover. Before, however, any such instruction could be properly claimed, the defendants must have made out, a state of the case to which it was
applicable, and from which the omission to make the movement
laid a foundation for the inference of fault on the p rt of th'
Major Barbour.
The fact that it would have prevented the catastrophe is not
enough; circumstances must be shown that would make it the
duty of the master to give the order.
There is no rule of law or of the river that imposes upon him,
in such an emergency, the obligation, t6 give a particular direction to his vessel, simply because it might avoid the danger.
The question in all such cases is, whether, in the exercise of due
care and caution in the management of her at the time in any
given, case, such a direction should have been given. If it
'should, then he is chargeable with the consequences of the neglect.'
Applying these principles to the state of facts in respect to
which the instruction in question was givenp, we think it will be
found that no error was committed.
The defendants' boat had suddenly turned out of the accustomed track, which was along the Indiana shore, apparently for
The purpose, if she had any in view, of crossing to the other
side; and, as soon as this change was discovered, the engines
of the descending boat, were stopped, allowing her to float according to the usage in such cases, for the purpose of enabling
the other to pass across her bow or stern, as she might elect.
Now, it could not be known, at least there is nothing in the
VOL.

XIII.

10

110

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Barr,3tt et al.

case to show that it was known to the master of the descending
boat, which of the two courses open to her the other intended
to adopt." If she determined to pass his bow, undoubtedly, reversing the engines and backing his boat would have been a
very proper manceuvre; but if she determined to cross his stern,
the movement would have been improper, and might have been
disastfous. Either a forward or backward movement under the
circumstances would have embarrassed the operations of the
other boat, as the master had a right to assume the one descending .would adhere to the usage of the river, and leave him free to
make choice of his course in passing upon that assumption.
Under these circumstances, we think it clear it would have
been erroneous to have instructed the jury, that the master of
the Major Barbour was bound not only to stop her engines, but
to back her, if,by so doing, the danger could have been avoided.
For before the neglect tomake that movement could be charged
as a fault, it should have appeared that the master knew the
colliding boat intended to pass her bow. In the absence of
such knowledge, Her proper position was that which the usage
of the river prescribed, namely, to stop her engines and float,
leaving the other the choice to pass across either her bow or
stern. This was his plain duty, not only from the law of the
river, but due, under the cfrcumstances, to the other boat, as
affording her the most favorable opportunity to extricate herself from the danger in which she had become involved by her
own fault in carelessly leaving her prope:: track.
IL As to the question of damages.
The jury were instructed, if they found for the plaintiffs, to
give damages that would remunerate them for the loss necessa.
rily incurred in raising the boat, and repairing her; and also, for
the use of the boat during the time necessary to make the repairs, and fit her for business.
By the use of the boat we understand what she WOUld pro.
duce to the plaintiffs by the hiring or chartering, of her to ran
upon the river in the business in whica she had been usually
engaged
The general rule in regulating damages in cases of collision
is to allow the injured party an indemnity to the extent of the
loss sustained. This'general rule is obvious enough; but there
is a good deal of difficulty in stating the grounds upon which
to arrive, in all cases, at the proper meashlre of that indemnity.
The expenses of raising the boat, and of repairs may, of course,
be readily ascertained, and in respect to tie repairs, no deduction is to be madeas in insurance cases, for the new materials
in place of the old. The difficulty lies in estimating the damage
sustained by the loss of the service of the vessel while she is
undergoing the repairs.

DECEUBER TERM, 1851.
Williamson et al. v. Barrett et al.

That an allowance short of some compensation for this loss
would fail to be an indemnity for the injury is app~rent.
This question was directly before the court of admiralty in
England, in the case of the Gazelle, decided by Dr. Lushington, in 1844. 2 W. Robinson, 279. That was a case of collision, and in deciding it, the court observed, "that the party
who had suffered the injury is clearly entitled, to an adequate
compensation for any loss he may sustain -for the detention of
the vessel during the period which is necessary for the completion of the repairs, and furnishing the new articles."
In fixing the amount of the damages to be paid for the detention, the court allowed the gross freight, deducting so much as
would, in ordinary cases, be'disbursed on account of the ship's
expenses in earning it.
A case is referred to, decided in 'the common-law courts, in
which the gross freight was allowed without any deduction for
expenses, which was disapproved as inequitable and exceeding
an adequate compensation, and the qualification we have stated
laid down.
This rule may afford a very fair indemnity in cases where the
repairs are completed within the period usually occupied in the
voyage in which the freight is to be earned. But, if a longer
period is required, it obviously falls short of an adequate allowance. Neither will it apply where the vessel' is not engaged in
earning freight at the time. The principle, however, governing
the court in adopting the freight which the vessel was in the
act of earning, as a just measure of compensation in the case, is
one of general application. It looks to the capacity of the vessel to earn freight, for the benefit of the owner, and consequent
loss sustained while deprived of her service. In other words, to
the amount she would earn him on hire.
Itis true, in that case, the ship was engaged in earning freight
at the time of the collision; and thd loss, therefore, more fixed, and
certain than in the case where she is not at the time under a
charter-party, and where her earnings must in some measure
depend upon the contingency of obtaining for her employment.
If, however, we look to the demand in. the market for vessels of
the description that has been disabled, and to the price there,
which the owner could obtain or might have obtained for her
hire as'the measure of compensation, all this uncertainty disappears. If there is no demand for the employment, and, of course,
no hire to be obtained, no compensation for the detention during
the repairs will be allowed, as no loss would be sustained.
But, if it can be shown, that the vessel might have been chartered during the period of the repairs, it is impossible to deny
that the owner has not lost in consequence of the damage, the
amount which she might have thus earned.

SUPREME COURT.
Williamson et al. v. Barrett et al.

The market price, therefore, of the hire of the vessel applied
as a test of the value of the service will be, if not as certain as in
the case where she is-under a charter-party, at least, so certain
that, for all practical purposes in the administration of justice,
no substantial distinction can be made. It can be ascertained
as readily, and withkas much precision as the price of any given
commodity in the market; and affords as clear a rule for estimating the damage sustained on account of the loss of her
service, as exists in the case of damage to any other description
of personal property, of which the party has been deprived.
In the case of the Gazelle, for ought that appears, the allowance of the freight afforded a full indemnity for the detention
of the vessel while undeigoing the repairs. This would be so, as
already stated, if they were -made withii the period she would
have been engaged in earning it. If it were otherwise, it is certain, that the indemnity allowed fell short of the rule laid down
under which it was made, which was, that the party was entitled
to an adequate compensation for any loss he might sustain for
the detention of the vessel during the period which was necessary for the completion of the repairs and furnishing the new
articles.
The allowance of the freight she was earning at the time was
but a mode of arriving at the loss in the particular case under
the general rule thus broadly stated; and afforded, doubtless,
full indemnity.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the rule of damages laid
down by the court below was the correct one, and is properly
applicable in all similar cases. There was no question made in
respect to the freight of the vessel, and hence the general principle stated was applicable, irrespective of this element, as influencing the result.
There were some other questions raised in the case of a technical character, and urged on the argument. But we deem it
sufficient to say, that they are so obviously untenable, that it is
not important to notice them specially.
We are of opinion, therefore, the judgment of the court below
was right, and should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice CATRON dissented, with whom Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, and Mr. Justice DANIEL concurred.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
This action is one of owners against owners of respective
steamboats. It is an action on the case, in which no vindictive
damages can be infficted on the defendants, as they committed
no actual trespass; and therefore, in assessing damages against
them, moderation must be observed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Williamson et al. v. BArrett et al.

In the next place, the collision occurred on the Ohio River,
and the rules of law applicable to the controversy must accommodate themselves to that navigation.
The injured boat was sunk, and the plaititiffs declared. for a
total loss; but it came out in evidence, that she was raised and
repaired, and again commenced running the river. 6 n this
state of facts the jury was charged: 1st. That damages should
be given for raising the boat: 2d. For repairing her: and 3d.
Also damages in addition, "for her use, during the time necessaiy to make the repairs and fit her for business."
The expression "for her use," must mean either the clear profits of her probable earnings; or, how much she could have been
hired for to others during the time of her detention. Both propositions come to the same result, to wit: how much clear
gains the owners of the Major Barbour, could have probably
made by their boat, had she not been injured, during the time
she was detained in consequence of being injured. This proba-'
ble gain, the jury was instructed to estimate as a positive loss,
and to charge the defendants with it.
The suit is merely for loss of the boat, and has no reference to
the cargo. It does not appear that she had either cargo, or
passengers; nor does the evidence show in what trade she was
engaged.
In cases of marine torts, no damageb can be allowed for loss
of a market; nor for the probable profits of a voyage. The rule
being too uncertain in its nature to entitle it to judicial sanction.
Such has been the settled doctrine of this court for more than
thirty .tears.
In the case of the Amiable Nancy, 3 Wheat. 560, when discussing the propriety of allowing for probable loss of profits on a
voyage that was broken up by illegal conduct of tle respondents'
agents, this court declared the general and settled rule to be,
that the value of the property lost, at the time of the loss; and'in
case of injury, the diminution in value, by reason of the injury,
with interest on such valuation, afforded the true measure for
assessing damages: "This rule," says the court, "may not secure a complete indemnity for all possible injuries; but it has
certainty, and general applicability to recommend it, and in
almost all cases, will give a fair and just recompense." And in"
the suit of Smith v. Condry, 1 How. 35, it is declared, that in
cases of collision "the actual damage sustained by the party, at
the time and place, of the injury, is the measure of damages." In
that case there was detention as well as here, but it never occurred to any one, that loss of time could be added as an item
of damages. In other words, that damages might arise after
10 1

SUPRhEME COURT.
Williamsou et al. v. Barrett et al.

the injury and be consequent to it; and which might double the
amount actually allowed.
The decision found in 3 Wheat. was made in 1818, and I had
supposed for many years past, the rule was established, that consequential damages for loss of time, and which damages might
continue to accrue, for months after the injury was inflicted,
could not be recovered; and that there was no distinction in
principle, between the loss of the voyage, and loss of time,
consequent on the injury.
The profits claimed and allowed by the Circuit Court, depended on remote, uncertain, and complicated contingencies, to
a greater extent, than was the case, in any one instance, in
causes coming before this court, where a claim to damages was
rejected for uncertainty.
Here, full damages are allowed for raising the boat, and for
her repairs. To these allowances no objection is made; it only
extends to the additional item for loss of time. That the investigation of this additional charge wiNl greatly increase the
stringency, tediousness, and charges of litigation, in collision
cases, is manifest; nor should this consideration be overlooked.
The expense and harassment of these trials have been great
when the old rule was applied; and, the contest, if the rule
is extended, must generally double the expense and vexation of
a full and fair trial. Nor will it -be possible, as it seems to me,
for a jury, or for a court (where the proceeding is by libel) to
settle contingent profits, on grounds more certain, than probable conjecture. The supposition that the amount of damages
can be easily fixed, by proof of what the injured boat could
have been hired for on a charter-party, during her detention, will
turn out to be a barren theory, as no general ractice of chartering steamboats, is known on the western rivers, -nor can it ever
exist; the nature of the vessels, and the contingencies of navigation being opposed to it. In most cases, the proof will be,
that the boat could not have found any one to hire her; and
then, the contending parties will be thrown on the contingency,
whether she could have earned something., or nothing; little, or
much, in the hands of her owner, during the time she was necessarily detained; and- this will involve another element of contention of great magnitude; to wit, whether she was repaired
'in reasonable time. Forasmuch as no necessity will be imposed
on the owner to bestow the repairs, as is now the case, hj will
rarely, if ever, do so; and having the colliding boat and her
owners in his power, gross oppression will generally follow, in
applying this new and severe measure of damages to western
river navigation.
. In a majority of cases of collision on the western waters, par-

115

DE-CEMBER TERM, 1851.
Mitchell v. Harmony.

I

tial injury, repairing,,and detention of the injured boat occur.
Contests before the courts have been numerous where the precise question of compensation here claimed was involved, and
yet in an experience of twenty-five years, I have never known
it raised until now. The bar, the bench, and those engaged in
navigation, have acquiesced in the rule, that full damages for the
injury at the time and place when it occurred, -with legal interest on the amount, was the proper measure; nor do I think it
should be disturbed; and that therefore the judgment of the Circiiit Court should be reversed, because the jury were improperly
instructed, in this particular.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is- now here ordered, and adjudged, by this . court,
that the judgment of said Circuit Court,. in this cause, be, and
the same is hereby affirmed with costs, and damages at the rate
of six per centum, per annum.

DAVID

D.

MITCHELL, PLAINTIPF IN ERROR, V. MANUEL
]MONY.

X.

1IAR-

In some of the States it is the practice for the court to express its opinion upon facts,
in a charge to the jury. In these States, it is not improper for the Circuit Court
of the United States to follow the same practice.
During the war between the United States and Mexico, where a trader went into the
adjoining Mexican provinces which were in possession of the military authorities
of thLe United States. for the purpose of carrying on a trade with the inhabitants
which was sanctioned by the executive branch of the government, and also by the
commanding military officer, it was improper for an officer of the United States to
seize the property upon the ground of trading with the enemy.
Private property may be taken by a military commander to prevent it from falling
into the hands of the enemy, or for the purpose of converting it to the use of the publie; bat the danger must be immediate and impending, or the necessity urgent for
the-public service, such as will not admit of delay, and where the action of the civil
authority would be too late in providing the means which the occasion calls for.
'The facts as they appeared to the officer must furnish the rule for the application of
these Principles.
But the officer cannot take possession of private property for the purpose of insuring
the success of a distant expedition upon which he is about to march.
Whether or not the owner of the goods resumed the possession of them at eny time
after their seizure, was a fact for the jury. In this case, they found that he 'lid not
resume the possession and in this they were sustained by legal evidence.
The officer who made the seizure cannot justify his trespass by showing the orders of
his superior officer. An order to commit a trespass can afford no justification to
the person by whom it was executed.
The trespass was committea out of the limits of the United States. But an actionfor it
may be maintained in the Circuit Court for any district in which the defendant may
be found upon process against him, where theeitizenship of the respective parties
gives jurisdiction to a court of he United States.

