SUPRiEME COURT.
Pillow v. Roberts.

Order.
This cause came on .to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the 'United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was- argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged bythis court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to proceed therein in conformity to
the opinion of this court.

JEROME

B.

PILLOW, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. TRUbiAN

R6BERTS.

Where a deed, executed in Wisconsin, and attested by the seal of a court, stamped
upon the paper, instead of wax dr a wafer, was offered in evidence upon a trial in
itcrkansas,
was properly received.
Where a deed from the sheriff, for land sold at a tax-sale, recited an assessment for
of the land, and offering it for
taxes which remained unpaid; the advertisement
the highest bidder, who paid theinpurchase-money
evidence. The
saleu its being struck own to deed
have bernreceived
to
oght
this
certificate;
a
and received
law of Arkansas says, that the deed shall be evidence of the regularity and legality
of the sale.
But± even if this deed had been insufficient as a proof title, it ought to have been
received, in connection with proof of possession, to establish a defence under the
statute of limitations.

'Possession under this deed would have been sufficient proof for adverse nossession.

Tnis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
The circumstances of the case, and the points of law upon
which it came up to this court, are fully stated in its opinion.
It was argued by Mr. Lawrence and 21r. Pike, for the plaintiff in error, and l1r. Critte7den,for the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Roberts, the defendant in error, was plaintiff below, in an action of ejectment for 160 acres of land. Pillow, the defendant
below, pleaded the general issue, and two specia pleas: The
first, setting forth a sale of the land in dispute, for taxes more
than five years before suit brought: The second, pleading the
statute of limitation of ten years. These pleas were overruled.
on special demurrer, as informal and insufficient; and the judgment of the court on this subject-is here alleged as error. But
as the same matters of defence were afterwards offered to be
laid before the jury on the trial of the general issue and over-

DECEMBER

TERM,

185-1.

1478

Pillow v. Roberts.

ruled by the court, it will be unnecessary-to further notice the
pleas; as the defence set up by them, if valid and legal, should
have been received and submitted to the jury on the trial. In
the action of ejectment, (with the exception, perhaps, of a plea
to the jurisdiction,) any and every defence to the plaintiff's
recovery may be giverf in evidence under the general issue.
And as the decision of the court on the bills of exception will
reach every quedtion appertaining to the merits of the case, it
will be unnecessary to decide whether those merits were sufficiently set forth in the special pleas, to -which the defendant was
not bound to resort for the purpose of having the benefit of his
defence.
On the trial, the plaintiff below gave in evidence a patent for
the land in dispute, from the United States to Zimri V. Henry,
dated 7th May, 1835; and then offered a deed from said Henry
to himself, dated 10th November, 1849. This deed purported to
be acknowledged before the clerk of the Circuit Court of Walworth county, in the State of Wisconsin, and was objected to,
1st. Because there was no proof of the identity of the grantor
with the patentee other than the certificate contained in the
acknowledgment. 2dly. Because the certificate of acknowledg.
ment was not on the same piece of paper that contained the
deed, but on a paper attached to itby wafers. And 3dy. Because the seal of the Circuit Court authenticating the acknowledgment was an iropression stamped on paper, and not "on
wax, wafer, or any other adhesive or tenacious substance."
The first two of these grounds of objection have not been
urged hi this court, and very properly abandoned as untenable.
The third has been insisted on, and deserves some more attention. Formerly Vrax was the most convenient; and the onl
material used to receive and retain the impression of a sea.
Hence it was said: " Sigillum est cera imnpressa; quia cera, sine
impressione, non est stigllum.'' -But this is not an allegation, that
an impression without wax is not a seal. And for this reason
courts have held, that an impressioru made on.wafers or other
adhesive substance capable of receiving an impression, will come
within the definition of" cera impressa." If, then, wax be constriued to be merely a general term including within it any
substance capable of receiving and retaining the impression of
a seal, we cannot perceive why paper, if it have that capacity,
should not as well be. included in the category. The Kimple and
powerful machine, now used to impress public seals, does not
require any soft or adhesive substance to receive or retain their
'impression. The impression made by such a power on paper is
as well defined, as durable, and less likely to be destroyed or
defaced by vermin, accident, or intention, tian that made on
404

474

SUPREME

COURT.

Pillow v. Roberts.

wax. It is the seal which authenticates, and not the substance
on which it is impressed; and where the court can recognize
its identity, they should not be called upon to analyze the material which exhibits it. In Arkansas, the presence of wax is not
necessary to give validity to a seal; and the fact that the public
officer in Wisconsin had not thought proper to use it, was sufficient to raise the presumption that such was the law or custom
in Wisconsin, till the contrary was proved. It is time that such
objections to the validity of seals should cease. The court did
not err, therefore, in overruling the objections to the deed offered

by the plaintiff.
After the plaintiff had closed his testimony, the defendant
offered in evidence two certain deeds from Miller Irwin, sheriff
of Phillips county, and assessor and collector of taxes therein, to
Richard Davidson, dated on the 22d of October, 1844; one for
the north half, and the other for the south half of the quarter
section of land now in dispute. On objection, the court refused
to permit these deeds to be received, and sealed a bill of exceptions. The defendant then offered the same deeds to Davidson,
and in connection therewith, a deed from Davidson to Armstrong, and also a deed from Armstrong to the defendant; and
to accompany them with proof of possession by himself and
those under whom he claims, for more than ten years, as to the
south half of said land, and more than five years as to the whole
of it. The plaintiff objected to this evidence. "And it was by
the -,ourt ruled, that the possession of such deeds, accompanied
by possession of the land, was not sufficient to prove such possession of the land to be adverse to the plaintiff and his grantor
without further proof that the defendant or his gTantors claimed
adversely; so the court refused to permit any deeds to be read
in evidence to the jury."
These bills of exception may be considered together. They
present two questions, Ist. Whether, by the law of Arkansas,
the deeds offered in evidence (and which were regularly acknowledged and recorded according to law) should have been permitted td go to the jury as evidence of a regular sale of the land
mentioned therein for taxes. And 2dly. Whether, without regard to their validity as elements of a good legal'title per se,
they should not have been received for the purpose of showing
color of title, in connection with possession by the persohs claiming under them, for a length of time sufficient by law to bar the
entry of plaintiff.
I. In considering these questions, it will not be necessary to
set forth at length all the provisions of the revenue laws of Arkansas for compelling the payment of taxes assessed on land.
A brief recapitulation of their most prominent provisions will

DECEMBER TERM,,1851.

475

Pillow v. Roberts,

suffice. These laws make it the duty of the collector, on or before the 15th of September of each year, t6 make a list of lands
assessed to persons non-resident, and the tax due thereon, with a
penalty or addition of 25 per cent., and to file this list with the
county clerk. He is directed, also, to set up a copy of the same
at the court-house, and to publish it in a, newspaper at least four
weeks before the first Monday of November, giving notice that
unless the taxes shall be paid on or before that day, the land
will be sold. On that day, the collector is authorized to offer
for sale, at public auction, such tracts or lots of land, or so
much of them as will be sufficient to raise the taxes and penalty
assessed and unpaid, and to continue the sales from day to day.
The purchaser to pay down forthwith the amount of taxes, &c.,
and receive a certificate describing the land purchased, directing, if necessary, the public surveyor to lay off the part purchased by metes and boundA after one year allowed for redemption. This certificate, which is made assignable, may be
presented to the collector, who is authorized to execute and
deliver a deed to the holder of it for the land described therein.
The follows the 96th section of the act, which is as' follows:
"The deed so made by the collector shall be acknowledged
qnd recorded as other, conveyances of lands, and shall vest in
the grantee, his heirs, or assigns, a good and valid title both in
lsw and equity, and shall be received in evidence in all courts
of this State as a good and valid title in such grantee, his heirs,
or assigns, and shall be evidence of the regularity and legality
of the sale of such lands."
The deeds offered in evidence were regularly acknowledged
and recorded. It is not denied that Irwii, the grantor therein,
was sheriff, assessor, and collector, of taxes in the county of
Phillips, ds he is described in the deed. The deed for the south
half recites an assessment of the same for taxes in 1839, according'to law; that-the taxes remained unpaid; t hat the land was
regularly advertised and offered for sale on the 5th'of November, 1839, by auction; struck down to William Vales, who paid
the purchase-money and received a certificate; that the time for
redemption having long expired, and Richard Davidson become
the assignee or holder of the certificate; therefore the said collector granted, &c., the said south half to said Davidson, his
heirs, &c.
'The deed for the norfh half has similar recitals, showing a tax
assessed in 1840, a sale in 1841, to John Powell, and a certificate transferred by him to Davidson.
These deeds come within the description of the 96th section.
They are made by a collector of the revenue; they are acknowledged and recorded according to law; they purport to be for

476

SUPREME COURT.
Pillow v. Roberts.

land assessed for taxes, and regularly sold according to law;
and the law enacts that deeds, so made, shall be evidence not
only of the grant by the collector, but of the regularity and
legality of the sale of the land described therein.
It is easy, by very ingenious and astute construction, to evade
the force of almost any statute, where a court is so disposed.
We might say that the expression, "deeds so made by the collector," means deeds made strictly according to the requirements
of all the preceding sections of the revenue law, and decide that
only deeds first proved to be completely regular and legal can
be received in evidence; and thus, by qualifying the whole section by such an enlarged construction of these two words, and
disregarding all the others, evade the obyious meaning and intention of the law. For if you must first prove the sa]e to be
regular and legal before the deed can be received, what becomes
of the provision that the deed itself shall be evidence of these
facts? Such a construction annuls this provision of the law,
and renders it superfluous and useless. The evil plainly intended
to be remedied by this section of the act, was the extreme difficulty and almost impossibility of proving that all the very numerous directions of the revenue act were fully complied with, antecedent to the sale and conveyance by the collector. Experience
had shown, that where such conditions were enforced, a purchaser at tax-sales, who had paid his money to the goverfiment,
and expended his labor on the faith of suah titles in improving
the land, usually became the victim of his own credulity, and
was evicted by the recusant owner or some shrewd speculator.
The power of the legislature to make the deed of a public officer
primdfacie evidence of the regularity of the previous proceedings, cannot be doubted. And the owner who neglects or refuses to pay his taxes or redeem his land has no right to complain of its injustice. If he has paid his taxes, or redeemed his
land, he is, no doubt, at liberty to prove it, and thus annul the
sale. If he has not, he has no right to complain if he suffers the
legal consequences of his own neglect.
The plain and obvious intention of the legislature is clearly
expressed in this 96th section, that the deed~made by a collector
of taxes, as authorized in the preceding section, when acknowledged. and recorded, should be received in evidence as a good
and valid title, and that the recitals of the deed showing that it
was made in pursuance of a sale for taxas, should be evidence
of the regularity and legality of the sale under and by virtue of
that act. The deed being thus made, per se, primd fadie evidence of a legal sale and a good title, the court Were bound to
receive it as such. There is nothing on the face of these deeds
showing them to be irregular or void. They are each for a dif-

DECEMBE R TERM, 1851.

477

Pillow v. Roberts.

ferent portion of the tract or quarter section of land, having
known boundaries, according to the plan of the public surveys;
one being for the south half and the other for the north half of
the quarter section, it required no survey to ascertain their respective figure, boundaries, or location.
II. But assuming these deeds to be irregular and worthless,
the court erred in refusing to receive them in evidence, in connection with proof of possession in order to establish a defence
under the statutes of limitation.
The first section of the act of limitations of Arkansas bars the
entry of the owner after ten years. And the thirty-fifth section
enacts that "all actions against the purchaser, his heirs, or assigns, for the recovery of lands sold by any collector of the
revenue for the non-payment of taxes, and for lands sold at
judicial sales, shall be brought within five years after the date of
such sales, and not after."
Statuites of limitation are founded on sound policy. They are
statutes of repose, and should not be evaded by a forced construction. The possession which is protected, by them must be
adverse and hostile to that of the true owner. It is not necessary that he who claims, their protection should have a good
title, or any title but possession. A wrongful possession, obtained by a forcible ouster of the lawful owner, will amount to a
disseisin, and the statute will protect the disseizor. One who
enters upon a vacant possession, claiming for himself upon any
pretence or color of title, is equally protected -with the forcible
disseizor. Statutes of limitation would be of little use if they
protected those only who could otherwise show an indefeasible
title to the land. Hence, color of title, even under a void and,
worthless deed, has always been received as evidence that the
person in possession claims for himself, and of course, adversely
to all the world. A person in possession of land, clearing, inproving, and building on it, and receiving the profits to his own
use, under a claim of title, is not bound to show a forcible ouster
of the true owner in order to evade the presumption that his
possession is not hostile or adverse to him. Color of title is received in evidence for the purpose of showing the possession to
be adverse; and it is difficult to apprehend, why evidence offered
and competent to prove that fact, should be rejected till the fact
is otherwise provon.
With regard to the five years limitation, we need not inquire
whether the legislature intended that the action should be barred, where the purchaser at the tax-sale was not in possession.
In this case, possession for more than five years by the purchaser
from the collector and those claiming under him, was proved.
In order to entitle the defendant to set up the bar of this statute,

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Hodge et al.

akter five years adverse possession, he had -only to show that he
and those under whom he claimed, held under a deed from a
collector of the revenue, of lands sold for the non-payment of
taxes. He was not bound to show that all the requisitions of
the law had been complied with in order to make the deed a
valid and indefeasible conveyance of the title. If the court
should require such proof, before a defendant could have the
benefit of this law, it would require him to show that he bad no
need of the protection of the statute, before he could be entitled
to it. Such a construction would annul the act altogether,
which waE evidently intended to save -the defendant from the
difficulty, after such a length of time, of showing the validity of
his tax-title. The case' of Moore v. Brown, 11 How. 424, had
reference to a deed void on its face, and the consequence of this
fact, under the peculiar statutes of Illinois, it furnishes no authority for the decision of the eourt below in the present case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, and
a venire e novo ordered.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Ciicuit Cotrt of the United States for the Eastern
District of Arkansas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration where6f, it, is. now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venire facias de vovo, and to proceed
therewith in -conformity to the opinion of this court.

THE UNITED

STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. ANDREW
HODGE, JR. AND LEVI PIERCE.

In a suit upon a postmaster's bond, when treasury transcripts are offered in evidence,
ic is not necessary that they should contain the statements of credits claimed by
the postmaster, and disallowed, in whole or in part, by the officers of the governmnnt.
Nor is it a reasott for rejecting the transcripts as evidence, that the items charged in
the accounts, as balances of quarterly returns, did not purport, on the face of said
accounts, to be balances acknowledged by the postmaster, nor were supported by
proper vouchers; but mnerely purported to be the balances of said quarterly
returns, as audited dad adjusted by the officers of the .ovemment. The objection
applied, if at 9A to the accuracy of the accounts, and not to their admission as
mzidence.
Tho basis of an action against a postmaster is his bond and its breaches; and not
the transcripts nor the quarterly returns, which are made evidence by the statute.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of e:rror, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.

