DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

381

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

same property; and as the notice was served upon the petitioner, as having a mortgage on the property, we think it was sufficient. The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
x nis cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the EaStern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consider-"
ation whereof, it is now here ordered, 'adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmec.

JOHN

H.

HOWARD,

PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR, V. STEPHEN M..IN-

GERSOLL; JOHN H. HOWARID AND JOsEPHus ECKOLLS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. STEPHEN A
INGERSOLL.

In 1802, when Georgia ceded her back lands to the United States, she had jurisdiction over the whole of the Chattahqochee River, from its source to the thirty-first
degree of north latitude.
The rule is that, where a power possesses a river, anudcedes the territory on the other
side of it, making the river the boundary, that power retains the river, unless there
is an express stipulation for the relinquishment of the rights of soil and jurisdiction
over the bed of such river.
When Georgia ceded to theUnited States all the land situated on the west of a line
- running along the western bank of the Chattahoochee River, she retained the bed
of the river and all the land to the east of the lineabove mentioned.

The river flows in a channel, between two banks, from fifteen. to twenty feet high,
between the bottom of which and the water, when the river is at a low stage, there
are shelving shores, from thirty to sixty yards each in width.
The boundary-line runs along 'the top of this high western bank, leaving the bed of
the river and the western shelvinz shore within the jurisdiction of Georgia. *
THESE two cases were argued and decided together. The
suits related to the same tract of land and the rights of the
same parties, although they came up from different States.
The first, which is referred to in the opinion Of the court as No.
121, was an action on the case brought by Ingersoll in the Circuit Court Of Alabama (State court) to recover damages for
the wrongful obstruction, by Howard, of the. Chattahoochee
River, whereby the waters of that stream wexe backed in such a
manner as to overflow Ingersoll's land and obstruct the use of
his mill. This mill waj built between the high bank of the
river and low-water mark, as it was called, so that when the
water was high it wras overflowed; but when the water was low,
it was on dry ground. At such times, it was worked by a race
fed from the iver by means of a wing, dam. Howard built a

S'UPREME

COURT.

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll..

dam below, which backed the water upon the mill, and impeded
its operations. On the trial of this cause the jury returned a
verdict in favor of Ingersoll for the sum of $4,000. The cause
was carried to the Superior Court of Alabama, where the judgment was affirmed; -whence it was brought to this court under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.

No. 131.

HOWARD & ECIOLLS,

Plaintiffs in error,

INGERSOLL.

This case was-brought, by writ of errcr, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Georgia. Howard & Eckolls, the builders of the dam, brought a suit against
Ingersoll in the Superior Court of Muscogee county, Georgia,
to recover damages for an illegal entry upon their land covered
with water, and fishing thereon. The jur found a verdict for
the plaintiffs for the sum of $600. A bill of exceptions brought
the case up to this court.
After these general observations upon the two cases, let us
now take them up separately; and first of
HOWARD, Plaintiff in error,
V.
No. 121.
INGERSOLL.

It has been always stated that this case was brought from
the Supreme Court of Alabama. The bill of exceptions, which
was taken on the trial of the cause in Russell Circuit Court,
was as follows:
Bill of Exceptions. On the trial of this cause the plaintiff
(Ingersoll) produced a patent from the Uni':ed States to himself,
dated in 1802, to fractional section No. 11, township 7, range
30, and proved title in himself to lots 1, 2, :3, and 4, in the town
of Girard, lying in Russell county, Alabama, and specifically
described in some of the dounts of the declaration; said land
has for its eastern boundary the State of Georgia, and is immediately west of the Chattahoochee River, on the bank thereof.
This river has, for the most part, high bluff banks; but in some
places the banks are low, an4 the adjacent lands on either side
('where they are low) are subject to inundation, for nearly a mile
out of the banks. Immediately at the plaintiff's lands and lots
there are banks of the river from fifteen to -twenty feet high, and
very abrupt, and are high on both sides, and above and below,
for considerable distances. The abrupt and high banks, however,
do not extend down to the water's edge at ordinary low water.
The bed of the river at this point is about two hundred yards
wide from bank to bank; and by the bed is meant the space
between these abrupt and highanks, and is composed of rocks

DECEMBER TERM, 1.851.

883

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

and slues among the rocks from one side to the other; ordinary
low water and extreme low'water together prevail for about
two thirds of the year, during which time'the river is confined
to a channel iabout thirty yard -wide,leaving the bed of the river
as above described, &xposed on each side of this channel, from
thirty to sixty yards. Immediately under, the "western abrupt
and high bank, and within the latitude of the north and south
boundary line of plaintiff's land, said lines being drawn-down
to the water's edge, and in the bed of the river, as above de-.
scribed, east of said western abrupt and high bank, the plaintiff
erected a mill previous to 1842, and continued the possession
and use thereof until overflowed by defendant's dam. The
place on which said mill was situated was covered with water
in ordinary high water, but was bare and dry in ordinary low
water.
To supply his mill with water the plaintiff had erected a wing
dam, which ran in a north-east direction into the river, and supplied his mill with water at all seasons, and diverted a portion
of the stream to the said mill, which passed again into the
river above defendant's dam, and he, plaintiff, hadd blown out
rock to give room to his mill-wheel.
It was further proved, that, in 1845, the defendant erected a
dam across the river, about three hundred yards below the
plaintiff's mill, and opposite the city of Columbus, Georgia.
The said dam was four to five feet high, and at ordinary low
water backed the water on plaintiff's mill, so as to prevent its,
working; in high water the said dam made no difference, as the
water was level above it and on both sides of it. The plaintiff
further proved the value of his mill and the injury he sustained.
The defendant introduced in evidence the act of cession of
the State of Georgia to the United States; the Constitution of
the State of Georgia; an act o'f the State of Georgia granting
to the city of Columbus, the right, to lay off lots on her river
boundary, running across the Chattahoochee River, to high-water
mark, on the western bank of said river. All of which evidence,
being printed in the public acts, are to be read and considered
in full as part of this bill of exceptions.
The defendant also offered in evidence an authenticated deed
to him, from the city of Columbus, granting him said lots, running across the river, and authority to erect the dam across the
river; which original deed and accompanying plat, it is agreed,
may form a part of this bill of exceptions, and may be exhibited
as such. The plaintiff's land was situated at a point of the
river where there were falls or rapids, and where it was not
navigable, and that it was far above tide-water, and a freshwater stream, and between Miller's Bend and Cochei Creek:

884

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

The defendant's dam raised the water to a point on the western
high bank which [is] dry at ordinary low water. One witness
proved that he never knew a sheriff or constable of Georgia to
come over on the western bank to serve any writ, or process,
or other official act, and stated that he, the witness, had good
opportunity to know if any such thing had been attempted,
as he had lived on the western bank for ten years.
At the place at which plaintiff's mill was erected the summit of the bank was never overflowed, even at the highest
stages of the river, the water of which always remained several
feet below it. The plaintiff gave in evidence to the court,
which was not allowed to go as evidence to the jury, although
requested by plaintiff, adts of the State of Georgia, conveying
authority to the commissioners to negotiate the cession of territory from Georgia to the United States, and also the act of
'Georgia ratifying said cession; all of which may be read from
the public acts: The court charged the jury, that one passing
from Georgia -to Alabama, across the Chattahoochee River, at
ordinary low water, would be upon the bank as soon as he left
the water on the western side, although an inappreciable distance from the water, and that the line described in the treaty
of cession from Georgia to the United States, as running up
said river, and along the western bank thereof, is the line impressed upon the land by ordinary low water; and if they believed the plaintiff's mill was west of that line, and defendant's
dam backed the watef so as to obstruct the operation of said
mill, the plaintiff was entitled to recover; to which charge the
defendant excepted.
The defendant asked the court to charge the jury, that if the
bank of the river was ordinary low-water mark, the plaintiff had
no right to the use of the water at that stage; which charge the
court refused; to which defendant excepted, and prays his exceptions to be signed and sealed, and made part of the record
of this cause, which is accordingly done in term time.
J. J. WOODwARD. [L. S.]
The judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of Alabama, and brought to this court to be
reviewed, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
No.

HoWARD & ECKOLLS, Plaintiffs in error,

This action was brought by way of petition by Howard'&
Eckolls, the bwners of the dam below, against Ingersoll, the
owner of the mill above, for entering the close (ground covered
with water) of 'the petitioners and fishing. Ingersoll removed

DECEMBER TERM, 18-51.

885

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

the cause into the Circuit Court of the United States, where it
was tried in July, 1850. The court having'refused to charge the
jury as prayed for by the plaintiffs, they brought the case to this
court, although there was a verdict in their favor for $600 damages.
The following is the bill of exceptions:
On the trial of this cause the plaintiffs proved, by the articles of cession, dated on'the 16th day of June, 1802, between
the United States and Georgia, that the boundary-line between Georgia and the Territory, now State of Alabama, was
a line beginning on the western bank of the Chattahoochee
River, and running along the western bank thereof. And did
further prove, by competent testimony of witnesses, both for the
plaintiffs and on the -part of the defendant, that at the part of
the said River Chattahoochee, where the closes in the said declaration mentioned are situated, the said river (not being a
tide-water, and not being navigable) is considerably reduced
at its lowest state, especially in droughts, being quite narrow
at such state, particularly in some places where it is confined
by rocks projecting from the opposite sides of the river, and in
other places spreading out more at large. That between the
water in this state of the river, and a high and perpendicular
bluff on the western or Alabama side, the distance varies, according to one witness, from 30 to 100 yards; according to
another, the bluff banks are high and precipitous; at some
places they are 30 feet, at others 100, and again 150 feet from
the main channel; by another, at the foot of the bluff bank is a
flat space from 50 to 150 feet wide, between ordinary water
mark and the bluff bank; from very low-water mark to the
bluff bank is more than 50 to 150 feet. According to another
witness it is from 100 to 120 feet from the bluff bank to medium water mark, and from 80 to 100 feet from medium water
mark to low-water mark; that this intermediate space is a flat
or bottom land, gradually descending from the base of the bluff
to the water; that in places upon this flat there is a growth of
shrubbery, and some trees, such as pines, gums, oaks, willows,
alders, poplars, &c. ; that the growth on this flat:-would be liable
to be destroyed if the flat were long or often overflowed; that
there is a road or cart-way underneath this bluff, a grist-mill, one
post of which stands in the water, (the water approaching very
near the bluff at that loint,) and there being just room between
the mill and the bluff for the" above road to pass. There is
also a saw-mill, (but not on the closes in the declaration mentioned,) and a cotton-gin factory under the bluff on this flat;
and a small portion of it has at times been cultivated. That
in the ordinary winter state of the river the water covers this
VOL. Xii.

33

$86

SUPREME

COURT.

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

flat about half way to the bluff to the ba3e of a bank or ridge.
of sand and gravel, having an inclination of about forty-five
degrees; that in very full states of the river, that is, in freshets,
the -water covers the flats, reaching to, or nearly to, the bluff,
and in the freshet of 1840, known as the Harrison freshet, it
extended twelve feet up the base- of the bluff; that the extent' to which this flat is covered with water varies with the
height of the freshets in said river, it being all dry land at the
lowest state of the river, and a portion of it being always, except in. high freshets, uncovered with water; that it is only in
the full state of the river that the water overflows the sand-bank
or ridge before mentioned,
Whereupon the plaintiffs prayed the court to instruct the
jury that the true interpretation of the sais article of cession in
the year 1802, between the- Uhited States and Georgia, requires
the boundary line between the State of Georgia and the Territory, now State, of Alabama, to be drawn on and along the
western bank of the Chattahoochee River. And that wherever
the jury may find that bank to be, the jurisdiction and limits
of the State of Alabama must terminate, and cannot pass beyond that line to the eastward of the same, but that all east of
said :ie, whether it be land or water, is included within the
limits and jurisdiction of Georgia, and no grant from the United
'States or the State of Alabama can confer title to any part of
the same, either directly or indirectly, either by virtue of the said
grant, or as an incident to the same.
Which instruction the said court refused to give, except subject to this modification, to wit, that the articles of cession
was an instrument, the interpretation of which beloxiged to the
'court and not to the jury, and gave the said instruction subject
to the said modification; and moreover instructed the jury that,
by the true construction of those articles of cession, the boundary-line between the 'State of Georgia and Alabama was to
be drawn on and along the .weern bank of the Chattahoochee
River at low-water mark, when the river was at its lowest state.
To which refutai and instruction the plaintiffs except, and
pray this bill of exceptions to be signed:, sealed, and enrolled,
which is 'done this fifth day of July, 1850.
JNo. C. NiCOLL, [L. s.]
District Judgefor the .Districtof Georga.
These cases having been brought before this court upon these
two bilIs of.exceptions, were, argued, by Mr. Johnson and Mr1k.
.Berrien,for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Coxe, for the defendant in error. The reporter gives the following Rotes of the ar.
gument of Mr. Berrien, which have been kindly revised by him,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

S87

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

and having no notes of ir. Coxe's argument, begs to refer the
reader to the report of the Alabama case, in 17 Alabama Reports, 780; where will be fdund the argument of the counsel
for Ingersoll, and also the opinion of the court as delivered by
Dargan, C. J.
.3ir. Coxe contended that this court had no jurisdiction over
the Alabama case, because Ingersoll claimed under a title derived from the United States, and the judgment was in his
favor and not against its validity, as required by the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act.
31'r. Berrien, for plaintiffs in error.
I will consider, - 1st. The question of jurisdiction; 2d. That
of boundary.
Xtrisdlction. This question arises under the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, (1 Stat at Large, 85.) The object of
the section is to give appellate jurisdiction to the Supreme
Court of the United States from decisions of the State courts,
in all cases in which it is necessary to determine (I use the
words of the act) tie Validity of a treaty, of a statute, or an
authority exercised under tile United States, or the construction
of any clause of the Constitution or of a treaty, or of a statute of,
or commission held under, the United States. No further detail
is necessary to present the question of jurisdiction than to state,
that the United States and Georgia both* claimed lands lying
east and west of the River Chattahoochee; that the United States
exercised jurisdiction over them by organizing the Territory of
Mississippi, recognizing in the act the claims of Georgia, saving
her rights, and providing for the appointment of commissioners
to adjust these conflicting claims, (Act of 1798, 1 Stat. at Large,
549; Act of 1800, 2 Stat. at Large, 69); that Georgia acquiesced
in this proposal; that commissioners were appointed, and arti.
cles of cession defining the boundary between the territory
claimed by the United States and by Georgia were duly executed and confirmed. On the true ascertainment of that boundary the rights of the parties in these cases depend.
Georgia ceded to the United States all her right, title, &e.
to all lands lying west of that line. The United States ceded
to Georgia all their right, title, &c. to all lands lying east of it.
The plaintiffs in error, deriving their title from Georgia, claimed
under her original title, modified as it was by these articles, and
therefore claimed also under the United States, that is to say,
under the cession to Georgia by the United States of all their
right, title, &c. to all lands lying east of a line running on and
along the western bank of the River'Chattahoochee. They

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingeroll.

-claimed the whole river, the shore or flats between the margin
of the water, and the bank, and founded their claim on the legislative grant of Georgia and these articles of cession by the
United States.
The question in controversy between the parties was, What
was the line which they established? In' No. 121 the court decided it to be "the line impressed upon the land by ordinary
low water." Iii No. 131 it was declared to be "a line drawn
on and along the western bank of the Ciattahoochee River at
Jow-water mark, when the river was at its lowest state."
These decisions were therefore adverse to the claim set up by
the plaintiffs in error under the act of cession by the United
States, denying their exclusive right-to the river in every stage, to
the shores and flats between the water's edge and the base of the
bank, and to its inner edge or slope. The validity of this claim
it is not material to consider on this questi n of jurisdiction. It
is sufficient that it was made in the Supreme Court of Alabama,
that it was made under the cession from the United States to
Georgia, from whom they derived title, and that that court
decided against it. In the construction of the 25th section.of the
Judiciary Act, this court has said, "it must appear that the
right, title, &c.,' unfder a statute or commission of the United
States, was specially set up by the party claiming the same in
th6 State court, and the decision be against the same.". Montgomery v. Hernandez, 12 Wheat. 129. But the court has also
said that it is "not necessary that the question shall appear in
the record to have been raised, and&the decision made in direct
and positive terms, ipsissimis verbis; it is sufficient if it appear
that the question must have been varied, and must have been
decided, to induce the judgment." 1 Stat. at Large, 86, in notes
and authorities cited. Now the plaintiffs claimed under Georgia. She had restricted her limits, having, by the act of cession,
withdrawn them from the M11ississippi to-the line agreed upon in
those articles. To determine on the validity of her grant it was
necessary to decide where that line was, and this depended on
the construction of the articles of cession, -the joint act of the
United States and Georgia. Again, the bill of exceptions states,
that at the point to which this controversy applies the river is
bounded 'by banks from fiftben to twenty feet high; that the
bed of the river, the space between these' banks, is about two
hunidred yards wide; that at ordinary low water the channel is
about thirtyr yards wide, leaving from thirty t 9 sixty (or rather
eight) yards of fats exposed on each side between the channel
and banks; that the mill of defenda11 in error was placed
below the western high bank in the bed of' the river, and that
the site of the mill was covered with water in ordinary high

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

889

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

water, but was bare and dry in ordinary low water. The plaintiffs claimed the western high bank, including the whole river,
the flats, and the inner face of that bank, and that this was the
line defined in the act of cession made by the United States.
If this claim was affirmed, the defendant in error was a trespasser, and this judgment could not have been rendered. It
was disaffirmed, and so disaffirming it the court denied the validity of the act of cession, under which plaintiff claimed, or they
gave a construction to those articles adverse to his claim, and
in either case the appellate jurisdiction of this court is manifest.
But the learned counsel has yielded the question of jurisdiction by conceding, as he has done, that these records "present but a single question, viz., what is the true construction of
that part of the compact between the State of Georgia and the
United States," &e. Surely it belongs to this court to decide,
in the last resort, on the construction of a compact entered into
by commissionfers of the United States acting under the authority given by a 'statute of the United States.
But again, the learned counsel yields the question of jurisdiction by contending, as he may rightfully contend, that these ac.
tions "were local in their character," for then, especially in the
Alabama case, No. 121, in which alone the jurisdiction of thiscourt is contested, it became necessary for the Supreme Court
of Alabama to decide that the locus of the alleged trespass was
within the limits of that State, which could only be done by
giving a construction to the act of cession, and thus deciding
the locality of the line of boundary between Georgia and Alabama, which they prescribe. Without this;judgment could not
have been rendered for the plaintiff in the court below.
. The question of jurisdiction is gubmitted. I proceed to examine the question of boundary.
Its decision depends on the construction to be given to the
following words 'in the act of cession: "West of a line beginning on the western bank of the Chattahoochee River, where the
same crosses the boundary-line between the United States and
Spiin, running up the said River Chattahoochee, and along the
vestern bank- thereof"; and on the mutual cession of the United States and Georgia,- the United States ceding to Georgia
all-their right, title, &c. to the territory lying east of that line,
and Georgia ceding to the United States all her right, title, &c. to
thd territory lying west of it. That line, then, limits the precise
boundary between the contracting parties. The United States
have relinquished all claim to territoxy lying east of it; Georgia has in like manner relinquished her claim to territory lying
west of it.
.But the learned counsel supposes that this cession by the
33*

890

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. IngerEoll.

United States is valueless, because the commissioners of the
United States exceeded- their power in making it; that they
were limited, by the act creating the commission, to an acceptance of a cession from Georgia; of a cession of lands lying
*¢est of the Chattahoochee, and were not authorized to cede to
Georgia the right, title, &c. of the United States to territory
lying east of that line.
To give to the learned counsel the whole benefit, of his argument, let it be conceded that the commissioners of the United
States exceeded their powers in making the cession to Georgia,
as the commissioners of Georgia certainly did exceed their
powers in ceding to the United States all thq right, title, &c. of
Georgia to the territory lying west of a line drawn on the bank
of the Chattahoochee, for they were limited to a cession of the
territory lying west of a line seventy miles west of the Chattahoochee. Marb. & Craw. Dig. Laws Geo. Both parties, ti en,
exceeded their powers. With a view to the amicable adjustment of the controversy they assumed to themselves powers
.which were not conferred upon them. What then? The learned
counsel is aware that the subsequent ratification of the acts of
an agent who has exceeded his powers is equivalent to the original grant of the powers which he has exercised. Now Geor.
gia and the United States have acquiesced in the settlement of
thb controversy made by the articles, - Georgia by an express
act of legislation, the United States by repeated acts, resulting
in the organization of the Territory of Alabama and her subse.
quent admission as a State.
We enter, then, upon the consideration of the a'rticles of cession, having established our claim to the full benefit of the mu-tual cession of the United States and Georgia. Under these
articles the plaintiff's in error claim that the boundary which
they describe is 'a line beginning on the western bank of, the
Chattahoochee, running up the river and along the western bank
thereof, meaning thereby the elevated bank, which, with that on
the eastern side, contains the river in its natural ch.nnel when
there is the greatest flow of water.
The line is to begin on the bank, to run up the river and
along the bank. It is to run up, to indicate its direction; on
and along the bank, to mark its locality. The line thus clings
to the bank.
What, then, is the western bank? Is it the margin of the
river, -the varying line marked by the contact of the water
with the land, in its different stages of high, low, 'ordinary high,
and ordinary low, or extreme low water, and which of them?
Or is it the bank of earth which, with that on its opposite side,
contains the river in its natural channel when there is the-great-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
goward et al. v. Ingersoll.

est flow of water? This inquiry may be considered, - 1st. Technically; 2d. With a view to the probable intention of the parties, as that is to be inferred from the statutory history of the
transaction, taken in connection with the character of the rl- r
and the consequences to result from either construction.
Before entering upon this inquiry, there are certain terms
which will occur in the progress of this discussion, to which it
is necessary to affix a definite meaning.
We are seeking to ascertain the meaning of the expression,
the bank of a river. What, then, is a river ? What are its banks ?
A river is defined to be a body of flowing water, of no specific
dimensions, larger than a brook or rivulet, less than a sea -" a
running, stream, pent in dn.each side by walls or banks." Woolwich on Sewers, 51; Rutherf. 90, 91; vide etiam Livingston v.
Morgan, 6 Mart. R. 19.
A river is said to be "pent in by walls or'banks," and is thus
contradistinguished from a sea or an ocean, which encompasses
the land, rather than is encompassed by it. A river consists of
water, a bed, and banks. The bed or channel is the space over
which the.water flows, -" the hollow bed in which waters flow."
Nautically, the term channel is opposed to shallows; the former
indicating the deeper portion of the stream, that along which
vessels pass. In ordinary phraseology, the bed or channel is
the hollow space between the banks which bound the river. It
is usual in cases of this sort to refer tq lexicographers.
A bank is defined to be "a steep declivity, rising from a river,
lake, or sea." Webster, def. Bank.
Ripa extrmitas terra,qua aquca alluitur. And again: Ripa
recte definitur id quod flumen continet vaturalem vigorem eursui
sui tenens. Bayley's Latin Lexicon, def. Ripa.
Bouviere says: "Banks of rivers contain the river in its
natural channel when there is the greatest flow of -water.
Bouv.L. Dict., def. Bdnks of Rivers; Morgan v. Livingston, ante.
Mr. Justice Story defines shores or flats to be the space between the margin of the water in a low stage, and the banks
which contain -it in its greatest .flow, thus distinguishing flats or
shores from banks. Thomas v. Hatch, 3 Sumn. 178.
Chief Justice Parsons, citing Lord Hale's definition of the
term shores, considers it as synonymous with flats, and therefore
substitutes this latter expression. Storer v. Freeman, 6 Mass.
R. 438, 439. His opinion in that case confirms the position for
which we are contending. Chief Justice Parker Ulds a similar
doctrine. Hatch v. Dwight, 17 Mass. R. 289, 298.
Chief Justice Marshall says: " Thu shores of a river border
on the water's edge:" Handley's Lessee v. Anthony, 5 Wheat.
374, 385.

$92

SUPREME

COURT.

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

If the shore b'orders on the edge of the water, it must extend
outwards to the bank, and therefore cannot be the bank, which,
in certain stages of the river, it separates _r7om the water's edge.
A river, then, consists of water, a bed, and banks; these several
parts constituting.the river, the whole river. It is a compound
idea; it cannot exist without all its parts. Evaporate the water,
and you have a dry hollow. If you could sink the bed, instead
of a river you would have a fathomless gulf. Remove the
bank, afid you have a boundless flood. He who owns the river
must therefore own the water, the bed, and the banks; since
these are parts of that which belongs to him - the elements
which constitute the river, of which he is owner.
1. The question of boundary considered technically, I proceed to consider, first, - the language of the articles of cession;
the description of the river in the record ; the position of the
mill of the defendant in error.
The articles of cession are found in Hotchk. Dig. Laws Geo.
83. Its language is familiar to the court. It requires the line to
run on and along the western bank.
The description of the river is found in Howard v. Ingersoll,
Rec. p. 5; Howard & Eckolls v. Ingersoll, Rec- p. 4. It is described as bounded - "pent in" - by high banks, up to which
it sometimes flows, being two hundred yards wide, while at
others it is reduced to a channel of thirty yards in width.
The eastern boundary of defendant's land is the State of
Georgia. Howard v. Ingersoll, Rec. p. 5. His mill-site is in
the bed of the river, and is covered with water at ordinary high
water. It is not on the high bank, nor at its base; for a cartroad passes between the mill and the bottom of the bank. Howard & Eckolls v. Ingersoll, Rec. p. 4.
. The Supreme Court of Alabama decided that this mill-site
was within the State of Alabama, in al. verba,that a mAill-site in
the bed ofgthe river, between which and the- bank there was a
cart-road, and which mill-site was overflowed at ordinary high
water, was west of a line drawn on and along the western bank
of the Chattahoochee River.
The grounds of that decision it is my duty to examine. It
rests 1. On the consideration of convenience.
2. On cases relative to riparian rights, as calculated to show
that the term bank may be considered as equivalent to low-water
mark.
3. On the supposed analogy of the case of Handley's Lessee
v. Anthony, to this case.
A brief remark on each of these. To the argument of convenience, I might safelyr reply in the language of the maxim,

DECEM1BER TERM, 1851.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

Cujus est dare, ejus est disponere. Georgia yielded to the
United States, almost gratuitously, the vast domain, which
now constitutes the States of Alabama and Mississippi. She
had a perfect right to prescribe the limits of her cession, andto consult her own conveliience in determining them. But
what -is the inconvenience ? Tt is said, it would be burdensome to the citizens of Alabama, to answer in the courts of
Georgia foz offences committed on the western margin of the
Chattahoochee River. But this would be true also of the
Flint; Ocmulgee, or any of the other great rivers of-Georgia.
The inconvenience should be considered before the act is committed. But the Supreme Court of Alabama was influenced,
also, by a consideration of the convenience of Georgia, and
decided to divest Georgia of all that-part of the bed of the river
which lies between the foot of the bank, and low-water mark,
because it would be inconvenient to her to exercise jurisdiction
over it. Why more so than over the eastern side, of a river which,
according to the decision of the Supreme Court of Alabama, is,
for nine months pf the year, only thirty yards wide ?
This argument of convenience will, however, be considered
hereafter in examining the case of Handley's Lessee v. Anthony.
I proceed with the consideration of the opinion of the Supreme Court of Alabama.
In commenting on the decision of the court in Hatch v.
Dwight, ante, and quoting the words of Chief Justice Parker,
who says, "the owner may sell the land without the privilege of the stream, as he will, if he bounds his grant by the
bank," the Supreme Court of Alabama proceeds as follows: " Now, I admit that if the grant be limited to the bank of the
river, the land covered by the water will not pass by it, that is,
the bed of the river will not be granted; but we consider it well
settled, that if land be granted on a running stream, not navigable, and in which the tide does not ebb and flow, and the
words used to designate the boundary be the river, or the bank
of the river, then the grant will extend to the middle of the
stream, unless there be some other expression used, or some
other circumstance, showing that the parties did not intend thatthe grant should extend adfilum aquce."
Now, with great respect to the Supreme Court of Alabama,
I am utterly unable to distinguish, between a grant which is
"limited to the bank of a river," and one in which "the words
used to designate the boundary" are "the bank of the river."
I have supposed that the boundary of a grant was the limit
of the grant, and that was to be ascertained by "the words
used to designate" it, and yet the Supreme Court of Alabama,
admitting that a grant, which is limited to the bank of a river,

894

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

must stop at the bank, nevertheless decides that a grant, in
which the words used to designate the boundary, are the
bank of the river, will extend ad filam aqucu, to the middle
of the river, and proceeds to determine that the defendant's
grant, which is bounded by the bank, extends to ordinary
low-water mark, and includes the site of his mill, which is in
the bed of the river, separated from the bank Dy a cart-road, and
overflowed at ordinary high water.
I submit to your honors that the rights of the plaintiffs in
error cannot be sacrificed; that the boundary of the State of
Georgia cannot be removed from the permanent bank, on and
along which it was to run, by this process of reasoning. In
commenting on the case of lHandley's Lessee v. Anthony, the
Supreme Court of Alabama say: " But Judge Marshall, who
delivered the opinion, did note that the word river and not
bank, was used, hence it is supposed that if the term bank
had been used instead of river, the cour; would not have held
low-water mark to be the line; but I think all must admit that
the river is inseparably connected with the bank, even if the
bank be not included within the legitimate meaning of the
term river, and being thus connected, the bank begins where
the water touches the laid, and we chn, therefore, keep within
the legitimate meaning of the term bank, and fix the line at
low-water mark.".
Now this is 'to assume the whole question in controversy, - to
dssert that the uncovered portion of the bed of a river, that which
is left bare by the retiring waters, constitutes its bank, although
the very day after such a decision had been pronounced, what is
thus denominated a bank should resume its proper character of
a bed, and be covered by the waters of the river in their fuller
flow. And the assumption is made in direct opposition to
authority, which makes the bank of a river to be part of the
river, not a distinct thing, "inseparably connected" with it, but
part and parcel of the river itself one of the elements of that
compound idea, which is expressed by the term river, indispensable to its existence. Who can conceive the idea of a
river without banks? As I have before said, such a body of
flowing water would not be a river, but a boundless flood.
Hence, in the language of authority, a river is said to consist
of water, bed, and banks, "inseparably connected," indeed, but
so connected as part and parcel of one great whole, the river.
The argument of the Supreme Court of Alabama makes the
bed of the river, (that portion of it which is left bare, at low
water,) its bank, while the real bank, that by which the waters
of the river are "pent in," 'in their fuller flow, is divorced
from all connection with the river, of which we have seen that

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

895

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

it constitutes an essential part. And again, it is a mere assumption of the question in controversy, for, if bowing to the
authority of that high tribunal, we wereto admit "thatbecause
the river and the bank are inseparably connected, the bank must
begin where the water touches the land, it would no more follow that this rule was to be applied in the lowest than in the
highest or medial state of the river.
But the court proceeds. Having admitted the position stated
by Judge Phrker, in Hatch v. Dwight, that "the owneriof- lan'd
(lying on a stream) may sell the land, without the privilege of
the stream, as he will if he bounds his grant by the bank," and
uzo flatz affirmed, that in a grant of lands so situated, in
which "the words used to designate the boundary" are the
bank, will extend to the middle of the stream, thus making a
distinction'not obvious to ordinaryintelligence, between a grant,
which is bounded by a bank, and one, in which the bank is designated as the boundary, they declare, -" It may, however,
be safely said, that when a private grant is bounded by the
bank, or a running stream, in which the tide does not ebb and
flow, no well-considered case can be found that limits the grant
short of low-water mark, unless there are other words or expressions used in the deed, showing that the parties did not
intend that the grant should extend to low.-water mark," -thus
plainly contradicting the admission previously made in comnmenting on the case of Hatch v. Dwight. Now without ivsisting on this recalled admission, I venture to submit to your
honors, looking to the fact, that the defendant's eastern boundary is the State of Georgia, whose western boundary is a line
drawn on and along the western bank of the Chattahoochee;
that no surveyor's chain, acting under the authority of the United States, or Alabama, has ever been stretched east of that permanent or elevated bank. Looking to these facts, I venture to
submit, nay, even to affirm, that no well or ill-considered case
can be found, (that which we are considering alone, excepted,)
which would extend the defendant's grant one inch beyond that
line. It is so bounded by its express terms, and no intendrent
can carry it further. The doetrine of ripairian rights can have
no place here. These are accessory, incidental to the principal
grant; but both the principal -and its incident must apply to
lands within the jurisdiction of the granting power.
The defendant's grant can neither directly or by intendment
extend one inch beyond, and eastward of a line drawn on and
along the restern bank of the Chattahoochee, for then it would
pass into the jurisdiction of another sovereignty. Since, as well
by virtue of her original title, as by the express cession of the
United States, all east of that line belongs to Georgia.

SUPREME COU]RT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

I will now examine the case of Handley's Lessee v. Anthony,
for the purpose of determining the supposed analogy of that case
to this.
Two things are there decided:
1. That a tongue of land projecting from the main land of
Indiana, between which and the main land there is a narrow
channel made by the waters of the Ohio, when they are high,
but which is dry until the rivei is ten feet above its lowest state,
the inhabitants of which had always paid taxes to and voted in
Indiana, which had been considered within its jurisdiction while
it was a Territory, and after it became a State, while the jurisdiction of Kentucky had never been extended over them,- that
such a body of land was not an island within the State of Kentucky.
2. That under the cession by Virgini-a to the United States
of her territory, north-west of the River Ohio, the State of Indiana, formed out of that territory, extended to low-water mark.
In examining-this case, it is very manifest that in determining
the rights of the parties, it was only neqessary to decide the first
of these propositions, viz,: That what was claimed as an island
was, in fact, part of the main land of Indiana, only occasionally and partially separated from it by a bayou, making
part of the River Ohio, mingling with other streams, and returning to the river. The matter in controversy was determined by
this decision. The question of the extent of the boundary of
-Indiana was not necessarily involved in it. Any opinion upon
it was therefore obiter, not binding upon the court, and open. to
examination by counsel. But it will not be necessary to exer.
cise this privilege. The rights of plaintiffs in error will be protected from the influence of this opinion, by showing the diversity between the cases.
This opinion is founded, 1st. On the words of the cession, which transfer to the United
States, "territory situate, lying, and being north-west of the
River Ohio." The difference between the cases is striking.
Georgia cedes to the United States all her territory lying west
of a line to be drawn on and along the western bank of the Chattahoochee River. The territory ceded by Virginia is bound by
the river; that yielded by Georgia, by a line drawn on the western bank of the river. The importance attached by.the court,
to this diversity in the terms of the two cessions is manifest. In
pronouncing the opinion in Handley's Lessee v. Anthony, the
Chief Justice says, not casually, or incidentally, but deliberately,
and of set purpose, and as a precaution indispensable to the
inquiry, (in substance,) that in pursuing this inquiry, the court
must recollecAt that it is the river, and nct the bank, which con-

DECEMBER TRUM-, 1851.
Howard et al. v. IngqrsolI.

stitutes the boundary. Now why this precaution, if this diversity in the terms, the boundary by the river or by the bank, would
make no difference as to the extent of the grant? The same
distinction is recognized by Mr. Justice Story, in Thomas v.
Hatch, ante; by Chief Justice Parker, in Hatch v. Dwight, before cited; and again -by Mr. Justice Story, in Dunlap v. Stetson,
4 Mason, 349, 366.
There is then an essential difference between the boundary in
this case, and that in H~ndley's Lessee v. Anthony, between a
boundary by-a river, and on a bank.
2. The next grouid of the decision in that case, %~as the difficulty of drawing any other line, where a river is the boundary.
Here the diversity which I have just remarked upon, is again
recognized. The difficulty ig supposed to exist where a river,
not where a bank is the boundary. To apply the decision in
that case, to the one at bar, is to assume -the question in controversy here, and entirely to disregard the distinction so emphatically stated by the Chief Justice in that case.
But what is this difficulty? The rights of riparian proprietors
on navigable rivers are limited to high-water mark. 3 Kent's
Comm. 7th ed. 514. On non-navigable rivers to the thread of
the stream.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of th court.
The point for decision in these cases is one of boundary, between the States of Georgia and Alabama. It is, what is the line
of Georgia on the western bank of the Chattahoochee River, from
the 31st deg. north latitude, "where the zame crosses the boundary-line between the United States and Spain; running thence
up the said River Chattahoochee, and along the western bank
thereof, to the great bend thereof, next above the place where a
certain creek or river called c Uchee,' (being the first coisiderable stream on the western side, above the Cussetas and Coweta
towns,) empties into the said Chattahoochee River."
Its determination depends upon what weke the limits of Georgia and her ownership of the whole country within them, when
that State, in compliance with the obligation imposed upon it
by the revolutionary war, conveyed to the United States her
unsettled territory; and upon the terms used to define the boundaries of that cession.
In the'case, from Alabama, "the court charged the jury, that
one passing from Georgia to Alabama, across the Chattahoochee
River, at ordinary low water, would be upon the bank as soon
as he left the water on the western side, although an inappreciable distance from the water, and that the line described in the
ireaty of cession from Georgia to the United States, as running
VOL. XIII.

34

aSUP REME- COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

up said river and along the western bank thereof, is the line impressed upon the land by ordinary low -water; and if they be-

lieved the plaintiff's mill was west of that line, and the defendant's dam backed the water so as to obstruct the operation of

the mill, the plaintiff was entitled to reccver."
In the case from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Georgia, the District Judge presiding, the jury
was instructed "that by the true construction Qf these articles
of cession, the boundary-line between the State of Georgia and
Alabama was to be drawn on and along -the western bank of the
Chattahoochee River, at low-water mark. when the river was at
its lowest state."
All of us think that both of these instructions were erroneous,
though there is a difference among us as to the construction
given by the majority of the court to the article defining the
boundary of Georgia upon the river, and the reasoning in support of it. These differences will be seen in the opinions which
our brothers have said they meant to give in these cas6s.
We will now give our views of what were the limits of the
State of Georgia when it ceded its unsettled territory west of
the Chattahoochee River to the United States; that Sfate's then
ownership of the whole of it, citing in support of our conclusions
indisputable historical facts, and the legislation of Georgia, of
South Carolina, and of the United States, upon the subject.
It is well known to all of us, when the colonies dissolved their
connection with the mother country by the Declaration of Independence, that it was understood by all of them, that each did
so, with the lirits which belonged to it as a colony. There was
within the limits of several of them, a large extent of unsettled
territory. Other States had little or none.
The latter contended, as all of them had united in a common
declaration of independence, and in a common war to secure it,
which no one colony could do for itself, that the unsettled lands
within the former ought to become a common property among
all of the States.
On the 6th of September, 1780, Congress recommended this
subject to the consideration of the States, On the 10th of October after, it was resolved by Congress "that the unappropriated
lands that may be ceded or relinquished to the United States by
any State, should be disposed of for the common benefit of the
United States; and be settled and formed into distinct republican States; which shall become members of the federal union
and have the-same rights of sovereignty, freedom, and independence, as the other States." 3 Journals of Congress, 516, 535.
From these references we have the whole policy of Congress
concerning those unsettled territories, so happily, since, consum-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

390

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

mated by the States and by Congress. It was not, however,
achieved without some delays and objections from the States to
which these lands belonged:- Some of the States, Maryland
taking the lead, refused to sign the articles of confederation until after strong- assurances had been given that such cessions
would be made. And when that State did so, it was with the
declaration that she did not relinquish or intend to relinquish
the right which she had with the other States to the "back
country," as she termed the unsettled lands within the limits of
some of the States.
Early in 1781, Virginia made such a relinquishment. New
York quickly followed, and Massachusetts and Connecticut,
always willing to make any sacrifice for the common cause, relinquished their unsettled lands after the war had been concluded.
The cause assigned by each of these four States for doing so,
and the principles upon which these cessions were accepted by
the United States, involved North and South Carolina and
Georgia in the obligati~n to do The same. Though not done
for severalyears, it was never denied by either of these States.
All of the States had been actuated by the same spiiit for independence. When the war had been happily concluded, all ofthem looked to the wild territory within the United States, as
the first source from which revenue could be raised to pay the
war debt of t e Union. It then was $1A2,000,000.
It would be difficult to say which class of its creditors had the
strongest claims upon thi justice and gratitude of the people of
the United States. But all felt, and it was conceded by the
other classes of creditors, that the soldiers who had patiently
borne the privations of the field, and bravely met its hazards to
secure the liberties of the country, ought to have their claims
paid by portions of the public lands, with certain available securities from Congress for the residue.
From these references we learn that the States entered into
the Union, with the understanding by all of them,-that each
had an undiminished sovereignty within its colonial limits. That
there were within the limits of some of them unsettled lands
over which Congress had no legislative control. But that itwas
early recognized by these States whilst the articles of confederation were in the course of ratification and immediately after.
they were completed,.that their unsettled territories were to be
transferred by them to the United States, to be disposed of for
the common benefit, and to be formed into distinct republican
States, with all the rights and sovereignty of the other States.
We have seen that relinquishments had been made by Virginia, New York, Massachusetts, and Connecticut. South Carolina did the same in 1787, after the settlement of her territorial
disputes with Georgia.

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

We rill now state what those disputes were, and how they
were adjusted, in order that the jurisdiction of the State of Georgia and that State's ownership of the whole territory ceded by
it to the United States in 1802, may be fully understood, in connection with the principles or rules by which its western bound.
ary upon the Chattahoochee River must be interpreted.
Georgia was originally a province, formed by royal prerogative, out of a portion of that territory which was within the
chartered limits of South Carolina. It was a corporation under
the title of " Trustees for establishing th3 Colony of Georgia in
America, which was to continue for twenty-one years, with
power in the trustees to form laws and regulations for its government, after.which all the rights of soil and jurisdiction were to
vest in the crown."
It was described in the act of incorporation, "as all those
lands, countries, and territories, situate, lying, and being in that
part of South Carolina in America, which lies from the northern
stream of a river, then commonly called the Savannah, all along
the sea-coast to the southward under the most southern stream
of a certain other great water or river, called the Alatamahd, and
westward from the heads of the said rivers respectively in direct
lines to the South Seas."
It may be well here to say, that the power of the king to
alter, change, enlarge, or diminish the limits of his royal governments in America, cannot be denied. "Those governments were
of two kinds, royal and proprietary. In the former, the right of
t~le soil and jurisdiction remained in the crown, and their boundaries, though described in letters-patent, were subject to alteration at its pleasure; for as it possessed the right of soil and
government, and delegated them to its governors during pleasure, it might dispose of them in what manner and to whom it
thought fit, might alter, extend, or abridge them as its inclination or policy might declare. 'In proprietary governments the
right of soil as well as jurisdiction was vested in the proprietors.
These charters were in the nature of grants, and their limits being fixed by these charters, could not be altered but by their
consent."
South Carolina, then, could not object either to the first charter given to Georgia, or to the subsequent extension of its boundaries by the king, though forming a part of what had been
within the charter of that royal colony.
In 1763, Great Britain having then acquired, by treaty with
Spain, - Florida,.Pensacola, and all that Spain had held in North
America, east and south-east of the River Mississippi; all of
that country between the Alatamaha and Florida, originally
within the chartered limits of South Carolina, but which had

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

401

Howard et al. v. -Ingersoll.

always been disputable territory b*tween England and Spain,
the then governor of South Carolina assumed to be at his disposal under his royal commission. Within the year 1763 he
granted to many persons in Carolina large tracts of land, lying
between the Alatamaha and St." Mary's Rivers His power to
do so was objected to by Georgia, but her remonstrances were
not regarded. The slabject was brought to the notice of the
Board of Trade. The governor's conduct was disapproved, declared to be unwarrantable, and orders were given that no charters or grants should be issued for lands on the south of the
Alatamaha River, which had been surveyed under warrants from
South Carolina. But as surveys had been made under the governor's warrants, and grants issued by South Carolina for the
lands, before the orders of the Board of Trade were received, they
were not formally recalled. These transactions, however, excited much attention at the time in England, from the representations which were made concerning them by Governor Wright;
of Gebrgia. The ultimate consequence was, that the king, in
January, 1764, extended the limits- of Georgia, including within
them all that-couutry which had been within the chartered limits
of South Carolina, and limiting the south boundary of that
colony by the northern stream of Savannah River, as far as the
head of the same. The language of the letters-patent, granted
to Sir James Wright, is, tlhat the colony of Georgia shall be
bounded on the north by the most northern stream of a river,
then commonly called Savannah, as far as the head of the said
river; and from thence westward as far as our territories extend;
on the east by the sea-coast, from the said river Savannah, to
the most southern stream of a certain other river, called St.
Mlary's, including all islands within twenty leagues of the coast
lying between the said Rivers Savannah and St. Mary's, as far
as the head thereof; and from thence westward- as far as our
territories extend by the north boundary-line of our provinces of
East and West Florida," which was " a line drawn from that
part of the Mississippi which is intersected by latitude 31, due,
east, to the Appalachicola." See the King's Pr6clamation and
letters-patent to Sir James Wright, Wat. 744.
For twenty years after this extension of Georgia, its limits
were not called in question by South Carolina, or perhaps, to
speak more properly, they had not been a subject of inquiry by
that State, though what they were, was well understood by the
authorities of Georgia. Nothing had occurred between 1764
and 1776, from which any contest concerning them could arise,
and it was not until two years after the provisional treaty of
peace between England and the United States was made, that
South Carolina claimed any part of the unsettled territory of
24 *

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

Georgia, within the limits defined by the king's patent of January, 1764.
The provisional treaty of peace with the King of Great Britain was signed in November, 1782. In the 2d article will be
found the boundaries of the United States. They are repeated
in the definitive treaty concluded at Paris on the 3d September,
1783. In less than four months after the provisional treaty was
made, Georgia declared, legislatively, that the southern boundary
of the State Was a line drawn from the Mississippi in the latitude of 31 degrees, on a due east course to the River Chattahoochee, and in other respects according to the southern boundary of the United States, as that was settled by the provisional
treaty -between the United States and Great Britain. The
southern boundary of the United States is described, in the tre'aties with England, "as a line to be drawvn, due east, from the
middle of the Mississippi River, in the latitude of 31 degrees
north of the equator, to the middle of the River Appalachicola or
Chattahoochee, thence along the middle thereof, to its junction
with the Flint, thence straight to the head of the St. Mary's
River, and thence down along that river to the Atlantic ocean."
Compare this boundary with that in te commission to Governor Wright, for the Colony of Georgia, and they will be found
identical. Indeed, unless the chartered limits of Georgia, as
they are stated in that commission, had, been taken by the negotiators of the treaty with England as their guide, they would
not have had any by which to run the southern line for the.
United States from the lIisissippi to the Chattahoochee, and
thence as it is described to the Atlantic Ocean.
The next action of Georgia, asserting its jurisdiction over its
limits, will be found in the 13th sect. of the act of February,
1783, Wat. Dig. 264. It defines what those limits were. In
February, 1785, Georgia passed another act for the establishment of a county to the west of the Chattahoochee, within a line
to be drawn down the Mississippi from where it receives the
Yazoo, till it intersects the 31st degree of north latitude, thence
due east as far as the lands might be found to reach, which had
at any time been relinquished by the Ir-dians, then along the
line of relinquishment to the River Yazoo and down to its mouth,
calling it the county of Bourbon
This last act, and the two which preceled it, attracted the notice of the authorities of South Carolina, and then that State, for
the first time since 1764, denied that the limits of Georgia were
as she had declared them- to be, and claimed for itself within
them a large- extent of country.
South Carolina reasserted her claim upon the principle that her
surveys had been made in 1763, between the Riveri Alatamaha

DECEMBER TERM, -1851.

403

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll. /

and St. Mary's, forgetting that her then governor haa been reproved and had apologized for authorizing them to-be made, and denied that the source of the Keowee River was the head of the
Savannah River, and that the country between its source and
the source of the Tugaloo River down to the mouth of the Keowee, where it empties into the Savannah, belonged to Georgia.
Neither State would yield, and the. border excitements, growing out of the differences, admonighd both that it would be best
and safest for them to resort to that court which had been provided in the 9th article in the confederation for "the settlement
of disputes then existing or that might arise between two or
more States concerning boundary, jurisdiction, or any other cause
whatever."
South Carolina presented a petition for that purpose. '3eorgia was cited to appear, and did so. Congress then provided for
the appointment of judges, and at this point of the proceedings,
Carolina withdrew her petition, it having become the conviction
of both States, from information brought out by the controversy,
that these differences could be amicably adjusted.
Carolina had contended that as the original boundaries of
Georgia were the Rivers Savannah and Alatamaha, and lines
drawn due west from their sources to the Mississippi; that all
the land lying south of the Alatamaha, and a line drawn due
west from its source to the Mississippi, as far as the northern
boundary'of the Floridas, continued to be a part of the province
of South Carolina, out of which Georgia was taken. And that
when the British crown, by its proclamation of October, 1763,
annexed to Georgia, all the lands lying between the Rivers Alatamaha and St. Mary's, it meant only the lands between those
rivers below their sources, and not such as lay above those
sources, and between lines drawn from them respectively west
to the Mississippi; which tract of country, of course, even after
the proclamation, still continued a part of South Carolina.
Georgia, on the contrary, maintained, that when the proclamation annexed to its government all the lands lying-between
the Rivers Alatamaha and St. Mary's, it meant not merely the
tract of country which lay between those rivers, below their
sources, but also the whole territory held -bythe British crown,
between the northern boundaries of Florida, as established by
the same proclamation, and the ancient line of Georgia.
Carolina further claimed the laud lying between the North
Carolina line and the line due west from the mouth of the Tdgaloo River to the Mississippi, because the River Savannah
loses that name at the confluence of the Tugaloo and Keowee
Rivers, and consequently that spot was said to be the head of
Savannah River. Georgia .contended that the source of the
Keowee was the head of the Savannah River.

404

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

At this time, neither State had such original documents from
the archives of England as were sufficient to determine its right
with certainty. But Georgia had secondary proof'of the letterspatent which were given by the king to Governor Wright, in
1764, though they had been taker -iway with him when he fled
from the State during the revolutionary war. The original commission and letters-patent were subsequently obtained from the
records of the Board of Trade in England. They fully confirmed
the correctness of the secondary proof upon which the State had
acted. There was also at the same time disclosed from those
records, in detail, all of the action of the Board of Trade-and of
the king, concerning Governor Boone's surveys in 1763, of the
land between the Alatamaha and St. Marys, with the disapprobation of all that he had done in that matter and the governor's
apology for his conduct. Though done already, we will introduce into this connection the boundaries of Georgia in the letters-patent to Governor Wright, that the controvetsy between
Georgia and South Carolina, and its amicable termination, may
be better understood.
Aftet South Carolina withdrew her petition from Congress,
the said States entered into a convention for the settlement of
the territorial differences between -them. It was concluded at
Beaufort, in April, -L787. Carolina was represented by three of
her most distinguished citizens of that day, and Georgia by three
of hers, in whom the, State, had every confidence. It was ratified by both States, though -one of the three commissioners from
Georgia, Mr. Houston, was dissatisfied -vith, and would not
sign it.
By this convention, it was agreed, "that the most northern
branch or stream of the River Savannah, from the sea or mouth
of such stream to the fork or confluence of the river now called
Tugaloo and Keowee, and from thence the most northern branch
or stream of the said River Tugaloo, till it intersects the northern
-boundary line'of South Carolina, if the said branch or stream
of Tugaloo extends so far north, reserving all the islands in the
said River Tugaloo and Savannah to Georgia; but if the head
spring or source of any branch or stream of the said River Tugaloo does not extend to the north boundary line of South Carolina, then a west line to the Mississippi to be drawn from the
head-spring or source of the said branch or, stream of Tngaloo
River, which extends to the highest northern latitude, shall forever hereafter form the separation limit and boundary between
the States of South. Carolina and Georgia. 1 Art Convention,
Wat. Dig. 754.
From this article, we see that South Carolina abandbned the
ground taken in her petition, and only claimed territory in Geor-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

405

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

gia, in the event that a geographical fac6 should turn out differently from what the commissioners of Georgia said it was, and
accordingly with what the commissioners of South Carolina
supposed it to be. That was, whether or not the head spring or
source of any branch or stream of Tugaloo extended to the north
boundary line of South Carolina. If it did not, then from wherever the head spring or source of that river might be lower than
this north boundary line, Carolina could claim from it by a line
drawn west to the Mississippi, all the land which was between
that line and the higher north line which Georgia had before
declared to be the boundary of this State. But if the head spring
or source of the Tugaloo did reach the north boundary-line of
South Carolina, then that stream to its source was to be the
boundary between the two States, to the west of which Carolina could not then claim any land. Georgia, on its part, by the
same article, withdrew its claim to that part of South Carolina
which is between the Keowee and Tugaloo Rivers, where the
most northern branch of the Tugaloo intersects the northern
boundary-line of South Carolina.
South Carolina,, however, acting upon the opinion of its commissioners, that the head spring of the most northern branch of
the Tugaloo did not intersect the northern boundary-line of that
State, ceded to the United States, in three months after the convention with Georgia had been made, all the territory which it
was supposed Carolina had got by it in Georgia.
The cession is as follows: "All the territoiy or tract of country included within the River Mississippi, and a line beginning
at that part of said river which is intersected by the southern
boundary-line of the State of North Carolina, and continuing
along the said boundary-line until it intersects the ridge or
chain of mountains which divides the eastern from the western
waters, then to be continued along the top of the said ridge of
mountains until it intersects a line to be drawn due west from
the head of the southern branch of Tugaloo River to the said
mountains, and thence to run a due west course to the River
Mississippi.
The United States accepted the cession, and until by actual
exploration it had been ascertained that the head spring or
branch of the Tugaloo River was north of the line of South Carolina, it was not known that the land actually transferred to
the United States by the South Carolina cession was only a
tract of country about twelve miles wide from. north to south,,
extending from the top of the main ridge of mountains which
divides the eastern from the western waters, lying between latitude 050 N., the southern boundary of North -Carolina, and the
northern boundary of Georgia, as settled by the convention be-

406

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

tween Georgia and South Carolina in 1787; and that by that
convention it was established that South Carolina had no unsettled territory to the west of the top of that ridge.
It was, however, a transfer of all the claim of South Carolina
to unsettled land. North Carolina afterwards ceded to the
United States its western lands. Georgia was the only remaining State which had not done so.
The termination of her differences with South Carolina placed
Georgia, as to its limits, accordingly with that State's declaration of them in 1783, or as they had been given by ihe king in
his commission to Governor Wright in 1764, and as they had
been used by the United States for the treaties of peace with
England, and afterwards in its negotiations with his Catholic
majesty from 1793 to 1795, which resulted in the treaty of that
year with the latter.
It may as well be mentioned here, however, that in the course
of that negotiation, Spain contended that the boundary of
West Florida was at the junction of the Yazoo with the lississippi, in latitude 320 39', running from that point east to the
Chattahoochee River. The claim was founded upon certain
proceedings of the king of Great Britain between the years
1763 and 1767, extending the northern boundary of West Florida from 310 north -o the mouth of the Yazoo, within two
months after the commission had been given to Governor
Wright, in which 310 north, or the north boundary-line of our
provinces of East and West Florida "were declared to be the
southern boundary of Georgia. These proceedings were an application to the king in 1764 by the Board of Trade for an extension of the boundaries of West Florida, and commissions
given by the king in 1767 and 1770 to Governors Elliot and
Chester, by which they were made Captains-General and Governors of West Florida, bounded to the southward by the Gulf
of Mexico, including all its lands within sb leagues of the coast,
from the River Appalachicola to Lake Pontchartrain; to the
westward by the said lake, the Lake Maurepas, and the River
Mississippi; to the northward by a line dreown due east from the
mouth of the Yazoo River, where it unites with the Mississippi,
due east to the Appalachicola." This pretension upon the part
of Spain was considered as altogether inadmissible by our negotiators, on the ground that the United States commissioners
and those of the king of England, in making the treaties of
1782 and 1783,'had taken the boundaries of East and West
Florida as laid down in the proclamation of the king of England dated the 7th October, 1763, as the true boundaries of
those provinces when they were finally confirmed to Spain in
1783. And further, that Spain could not rightfully dispute it or

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

407

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

attempt to extend her boundary to the north of 31 degrees, because
she had been substantially a party to all the negotiations which
resulted in a peace between herself and England and between
England and the United States, with a full knowledge by the
Spanish negotiators that the boundaries between England and
the United States had been fixed in the line of 31 deg. from the
Mississippi to the Appalachicola or Chattahoochee. Spain conceded it.
After the treaty had been made, however, it was suggested,
as the treaties with England had been made with the United
States, and not with the State of Georgia, that the former might
claim the territory between 31 deg. north and the -line from the
Yazoo to the Chattahoochee, upon the ground that the king had
extended Florida to the latter, or limited Georgia to that line
after he had declared the southern line of Georgia was to be the
northern line of Florida. But the United States did not at any
time assert such a claim. It could not well have been done
upon principle after the United States had rejected those papers
as giving any ground of claim to Spain and had insisted on the
negotiation upon the southern boundary of the United States
as defined in the treaty of peace with England upon the ground
that it had been from 1763 the boundary of Georgia. It may
not be amiss, however, to notice as a historial fact, the dbjections which were made against the availableness of these documents for the extension of the boundary of Florida to the Yazoo when they were first produced. No patent could be found
from the king under the great seal of Great Britain for such a
purpose. There was no record of such a grant in the Board of
Trade, nor in any other of the archives of England concerning
her possessions in America. It could not be found in the archives of Florida. Without such a patent, or a proclamation
in the nature of a patent for such a purpose, no colonial claim
for territory was complete.
Such was and has been the uniform basis, of colonial limits;
and it is somewhat remarkable that in no instance besides of
English colonial grant, is the king's patent wanting. In this instance the extension is vested exclusively upon two commissions to two Governors of West Florida, one three years after
the petition from the Board of Trade, to Governor Eliott in 1767,
and the other to Governor Chester in 1770. In the first there
is a recital of the boundaries of West Florida, when Governor
Johnstone received his commission in 1763, followed by this declaration, that the king had recited, by letters-patent under the
great seal of Great Britain, his grant of boundaries for Florida as
to .its northern line of 31 deg. from the Mississippi to the Chattahoochee and extended them to the Yazoo, by a line drawn from

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

it on the Mississippi to the Appalachicola. The same boundary
was given in the commission to Governor Chester. There is
no doubt that Governors Eliott and Chester permitted settlements and gave grants for land within 'the limits of these commissions from their dates unt*4 Florida became, in 1783, by a retrocession from England, again a part of the dominions of his
Catholic majesty. From these circumstances, a patent from
the king for the enlargement of Florida was 'presumed. -It was
not unreasonable that it sbould be. But "t was not considered
by the United States that its operation could set aside the previous grant to the colony of Georgia of the same territory, as
the king, in his treaties with the United States, had recognized
the line of the latter as the boundary of Florida, and that it had
been accepted in that character by the United States as its
southern boundary. In fact, admitting that the king's patent
had been given, his treaty with the United States was a revocation of it, and Spain could not claim from its treaty with Biigland any right to the extension, that having been a'political act
of the king of England for the benefit of his own subjects, when,
by his proclamation of 1763, Florida, as it had been acquired
from Spain, was for the first time erected into the two distinct
governments of East and West Florida.
It appears, from what has been said, that the limits of Georgia,
after the settlement of her territorial disptte with South Carolina, were not questioned; in other Words, that they had been
rightly asserted in the act of 1783, and that such portion of the
State, afterwards designated as the Mississippi Territory, was
within its acknowledged boundary. Georgia became then for
the first time in a condition to transfer to the United States its
unsettled territory. In less than a year after the last appeal
from Congress to the State to do so, her delegates in Congress
were authorized to make a cession of a part of it. The beginning of it was at the middle of the Chattahoochee, where it
is intersected by the thirty-first degree of north latitude; thence
due north one hundred and forty British statute miles; thence,
due west to the middle of the River Mississippi; thence down
the middle of the river where it intersects the thirty-first degree of
north latitude; thence along the said deg~ee to the beginning.
The quantity offered, and the conditions upon which it was to
be ceded, were objected to by the United States. ' It was pardcularly uacceptable to Congress, because such a cession left a
larger portion of unsettled territory within the State undisposed
of, and interfered with the original obligation and intention of
Congress to establish in the unsettled territories which might be
relinquished bythe States to the United States, other States, to beeome a part of the Union upon an entire equality with the rest.

DECEMBER TERM, 1-851.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

Congress refused to accept the cession tendered, at the same time
offering to accept from Georgia all her territorial claims west of
the River Appalachicola, or west of a meridian line running
through or near the point where that river intersects the thirtyfirst degree of north latitude. Georgia, in turn, refused the pro.
posal of the United States, and thenceforward maintained her
jurisdiction within her limits, until a cession was made of her
unsettled territory to the United States in 1802. Ip 1789 an
act was passed by the State reserving to certain persons and
companies preemption rights to her lands. In 1795, by another
act, in which the territorial jurisdiction of the State was reasserted, Georgia granted and transferred, for valuable considerations, to several companies, all of her territory bordering westwardly on the Mississippi River, in distinct tracts. Among
others, a tract comprehending a part of what was subsequently
declared by Congress to be the Mississippi Territory. The prices
for some of these alienations were paid into the treasury of the
State, and patents for them were issued by the governor. At
the next session, however, of the General Assembly the act of
1795 was declared to be void on account of the faild. bribery,
and corruption by which it had been passed. , But the compa
nies to which Georgia had conveyed had sold part of the land
to innocent purchasers before the revoking act was passed.
They appealed to Congress to maintain tht-m in their rights, as
well uj~ainst any futmu-ehim of Georga, as against any claim
that the United States might make to the land which had been
conveyed by Georgia. Unfavorable at first as these sales by
Georgia were to a transfer of its unsettled territory to the United
States for the common benefit of all the States, they contributed
to that result afterward. The action of the State had involved it
ift difficulties of a very uncertain termination in a legal point of
view. It had just been released from an unpleasant litigation, (American State Papers, Public Lands, Vol. I. p. 167.
Moultrie et al v. The State of Georgia, not reported,) growing
out of an act passed by the State in 1789, conveying lands between the Mississippi and Tombigbee Rivers to the Virginia,
South Carolina, and Tennessee Yazoo Companies, by the 11th
amendment of the Cofistitution, by which the States were
declared not to be suable in the courts of the United States by
citizens of another State or by citizens or subjects of a foreign
State. This, however, did not conclude the rights of the parties
in favor of the State to the lands which the State had contracted to convey to them. The right of the State, too, to large bodies of land within the Yazoo and its southern boundary, was
doubtful on account of grants from Spain before it had ceded
Florida to England; from England, also, on account of such as
VOL. XIII.

35

410

SUPREME

COURT.

Howard et al. p. Ingersoll.

had been made under the authority of the Governors of West
Florida; and by Spain again after the retrocession of the territory to it by England in 1783. But the greatest difficulty in
the way of the State continuing to hold its unsettled territory
was that the Indian title had only been extinguished to about
three millions of acres out of fifty millions. At one time the Indians were not inclined to sell; the State was not in a pecuniary condition to buy them out. The Indians were formidable
in tribes and numbers. Their habitations and their -'huntinggrounds covered the larger part of the State. Its white population was then small and too scattered for warlike concentration against Indian hostilities or their casual incursions into
the white settlements for 'plUnder. They were masters of ihe
'forest, and intervened all over the State between the white settlements, so that no one of them coulc, have intercourse or
give aid to another without a license to pass through their
hunting-grounds or at the risk of attempting it without permission. On the other hand, white men in numbers, no longer
under the influences of social life, or caring nothing for its restraints, hovered constantly on the borders of the Indians, exasperating them by depredations and misleading them into all the
excesses of a corrupt ciyilization, or into feuds with each other
or forays against the whites. Each day was an 'anticipation of
attack, and when the night came repose was only taken with
thle rifle ready to repel it. In this condition of things, and without any efficient power in the State to make a cange, it became necessary for. the United States tc use its constitutional
right to give relief. That was not so much a matter of choice
as it was of obligation. Constitutionally they could alone regulate commerce with the Indian tribes. Constitutionally they
had the power to make war; their obligation was to bear its expenses and defend the States against it in whatever way it
might happen; and constitutionally Congress was bound to
guard against war, to prepare for and prevent, it from whatever
quarter it might be likely to come. The recent treaty, too, with
Spain, bound that nation and the United States to restrain the*
Indian tribes, in the territories of each, from war among themselves and from such as might lead to aggressions upon the territories of either nation. Added to such considerations, the
people who had settled to the west of the Chattahoochee, between it and the Yazoo River, claimed from the United States the
protection Which Georgia could not give, and they a ked for a'securer and more definite political organization than they had had
either under English or Spanish rule, or from Georgia legislation.
. Nine years had gone by since the failure of the last attempt
to obtain it, without any thing having been substantially done

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

by Georgia to transfer to the United States its unsettled territory, in compliance with the resolution of Congress of 1780. All
the other States had done so. It was not likely, at the time,.
that it would be done for some years yet. Under such circumstances, Congress, still thinking that the United States had,
under the cession of South Carolina, a right to territory in
Georgia, passed the act of the 7th April, 1798, for the armicable
settlement of limits with the State of Georgia, and authorizing
the establishment of a government in the Mississippi Territory.
It was done with an express recognition of Georgia's right of
soil and jurisdiction in the territory. Sec. 6 of the act. This,
however, did not satisfy that State, and she rem6nstrated to
Congress against it. But the political necessity under which
Congress had been called upon to act soon became obvious to
all, and to none more than to the people and the legislature of
Georgia. It is not necessary to give an account of all that
passed from that time to the transfer of the territory to the
United States. Three of Georgia's most distinguished citizens
were appointed commissioners to. negotiate with three others
of national reputation upon the part of the United: States for a,
cession, and happily that was done in 1802, which had been
so long delayed;- thus consummating that great policy of ourearly national existence, from which so many States have been
added to the Union.
From the account which has been given of the territorial
claims of Georgia, and her legislation concerning them, with
that of South Carolina denying them, and the final adjustment
of the dispute between these States and that of the United
States for the cession by Georgia of her ufsettled territory, we
have learned that when Georgia did cede it to the United
States, that she was then in possession, and had a right to all
the land, subject to the Indian title, which that State had declared to be within her limits' except so much as there was between the Tugaloo and. Keowee Rivers, which Georgia had.
ceded to. South Carolina by the convention of 1787. We furr
ther learn, that the adjustment with South Carolina, left in
Georgia the Chattahoochee River from its source to the 31st
degreeof north latitude, as Georgia had claimed her limits to be,
since-the king's patent to Sir James Wright, in 1764.
In other words, that the Chattahoochee, from its source to
that point, was at all times after that patent within Georgia
with the right of.soil and jurisdiction -when its unsettled territory was ceded to the United States. This fact being so, it
gives us a key from the laws of nations to aid us in the interpretation of its cession as to the boundary between Georgia and
Alabama, -which must prevail, as it would in all other cases,

412

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

where there may be a transfer by one natfon of a part of its territory to another, with a river for its boundary, without an express stipulation for the relinquishment of the rights of soil and
jurisdiction over the bed of such river.
The rule jure gentiun, to which we refer, is not now for the
first time under the consideration of this court. We are relieved,
then, from its discussion, by citations from Vattel and other-writers
upon the laws of nations, to show what it is; but it will be
found in the 22d chapter of Vattel. Among the -writers after
him it is not controverted by any one of them. Besides, it is
according to what had been anciently the practice of nations,
substantiated by an adherence to it down to our own times.
In Handley's Lessee v. Anthony, 5 Wheat. 379, this court said,
by its organ, Chief Justice Marshall, "when a great river
is the boundary between two nations or States, if the original property is in neither, and there-be no convention about it,
each holds to the middle of the stream. But when, as in this
case, one State is the original proprieto-, and grants teriitory
on the one side only, it retains the river within its domain, and
the newly-created State extends to the river only." The river,
however, is its boundary.
Georgia was certainly the original proprietor of the River
Chattahoodiee tO 21 degrees north, when her territory west of it
was ceded to the Unitea States, and that cession must be understood to have been made under the rule, unless by terms in her
grant to the United States it was taken out of it, with the view to
give to the new State which was to be formed out of the cession, a coequality of soil and jurisdiction in the river which was
to separate them. In the interpretation of the boundary which
Georgia retained for itself upon the Chattahoochee, it must be
kept in mind that the cession was made in contemplation of a
new State to be formed with the Chattahoochee as a part of its
boundary. National considerations then entered into the spirit
of the transfer with which its eminent negotiators on both sides
were familiar.* If we disregard them now, and permit ourselves
to view this question in the narrower limits of verbal definitions, and upon the principles upon which private rights were
adjusted on rivers, between proprietors of land on either side of
them, we should do so forgetting all the circumstances and objects for which the cession was made, the parties to it, and the
new party that was to be brought out of it as an independent
State.
But we will now examine the article in the cession for the
* The commissioners on the part of the United States were ir. Madison, Mr.
Gallatin, and Mr. Lincoln. Those on the part of Georgia were James Jackson, Abraham Baldwin, and John Milledge.

DECEM1BER TERM, 1851.

413

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

boundary of Georgia upon the Chattahoochee, for we think its
terms are coincident with the principle of national law, under
which we have put this question.
We give the article entire, intendifig, after it has been done, to
use it with direct reference to the cases in hand as to the question of boundary on the Chattalioochee River, between the
States of Georgia and Alabama, as that que-tion was raised in
the courts below.
" The State of Georgia cedes to the United States all the
right, title, and claim, which the said State has to the jurisdiction and soil of all the lands situated within the boundaries of
the Unit-d States, south of the State of Tennessee, and west
of a line beginning on the western bank of the Chattahoochee River, where the same crosses the boundary-line between
the United States and Spain, running thence, up the said
River Chattahoechee and along the western bank thereof, to
the great bend thereof, next above the place where a certain
creek or river called Uchee, (being the first considerable stream
on the western side above the Cussetas and Coweta towns,)
empties into the said Chattahoochee River; thence in a direct
line to Nicajack, on the Tennessee River; thence crossing the
said last-mentioned river, and thence running up the said Tennessee River, and along the western bank thereof to the southern boundary-line of the State of Tennessee."
The plaintiff in error derives his title to the land which he
claims from the State of Georgia, and his right to construct a
darn across the Chattahoochee to the point where it terminates
on the western bank under that title and the convention by
which Georgia ceded her unsettled territory to the United
States. He claims that his land runs across, from the eastern
bank of the Chattahoochee to the bank on the western side.
The defendant in error claims under a patent from the United
States to himself to fractional section 11, township 7, range 30,
and proved title to himself to lots 1, 2, 3, 4, in the town of Gerard, in Russel county, Alabama, specifically described, in some
of said counts of his declaration, as land having for its eastern
boundary the State of Georgia, and is immediately west of the
Chattahoochee River, on the bank thereof.
In the first case, No. 121, it was ruled by the court below,
that the line established by the articles of cession was the line
impressed by ordinary low water. In the case from the Circuit
Court of the UnL2d States for the District of Georgia, the
judge instructed the jury that the line was to be drawn on and
along the western bank of the Chattahoochee River at lowwater mark, when the river was at its lowest state.
From the bill of exceptions, in the first case, it appears that
35*

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

"immediately at the plaintiff's lands and lots, the banks of the
river are from fifteen to twenty feet high on both sides, abrupt
above and bejlow for considerabli distances. The .high banks,
however, do not extend down to the water's edge at ordinary
low water. The bed of the river at this point is about two
hundred yards wide from bank to bank-; by the bed is meant the
space between these abrupt and high banks; and is composed
of rocks and slues among the rocks from one side to the other.
Ordinary low water and extreme low water together prevail for
about two thirds of the year, during which time the river is
confined to a channel about thirty yards wide, leaving the bed
of the river as above described, exposed Dn each side of this
channel from thirty to ixty yards. Immediately under the
western abrupt and high bank, and within the latitude of the
north and south boundary-line of plaintiff's land, those lines being drawn down to the water's edge, and in the bed of the river,
as above described, east of the western abrupt and high bank,
the plaintiff erected a mill previous to 1842, and continued jn
the possession and use of it until overflowed by defendant's
dam. The place on which the mill is, is covered with water
in ordinary high water, but is bare and dry in ordinary low
water."
"To supply his mill with water, the plaintiff had erected a
cross-dam, which ran in a north-east direction into the river, and
supplied his mill with water at all seasons, by diverting a portion of the stream to the mill, which passed again into the river
above the defendant's dam; and the -plaintiff had blown out a
rock to give room to his mill to work."
The evidence in the case, from the Circuit Court of Georgia,
in respect to the situation of the plaintiff's mill and the description of the river, is substantially the same.
It appears from it, that the mill of the plaintiff, by his own
showing, is in the bed of the river, to the east of the abrupt
bank, by the prolongation of his north and south boundary-line
from the bank, which he claims a right to prolong, from his
being the owner of the land to the bank of the river, as a riparian fight.
Upon this evidence, the court in Alabama charged the jury,
that one passing from Georgia to Alabama, across the Chattahoochee River at ordinary low water, would be upon the bank
as soon as he left the water on the western side, although an
inappreciable distance from the water, and that the line described in the treaty of cession from Georgia to the United
States, as running .up said river, and along the western bank
thereof, is the line impressed upon the land by ordinary low
water; and, if-they believed plaintiff's mill was west of that

DECEMBER

TERM,

1851.

415.

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

line, and defendant's dam backed the water so as to obstruct the
operation of the mill, the plaintiff was entitled to recover. The
defendant in this case excepted to the charge, and asked the
court to instruct the jury, if .the bank of the river was ordinary
low-water mark, that the plaintiff had no right to the 'use of
the water at that stage, which the court refused to give. In the
case from the United States Circuit Court the defendants
below -_plaintiffs in error here - prayed the court to instruct
the jury, that the true interpretation of the article of cession
requires the boundary-line between Georgia and Alabama to
be drawn on and along the wdstern bank of the Chattahoochee
River; and that, wherever the jury might find that bank to be,
the jurisdiction and limits of Alabama must terminate, and cannot pass to the eastward of the same; but that all east of such
line, Whether it be land or water, is included within the limits
and jurisdiction of Georgia; and no grant, from the United
States or the State of Alabama, cin confer title to any part of
the same, either directly or indirectly, by virtue of such grant,
or as an incident' to the same. This prayer was refused; and
the court instructed the jury, that the boundary-line between the
States of Georgia and Alabama was to be drawn on and along
the western bank of the river, at low-water mark, when the
river was at its lowest stage. '
In our view, the words of the cession have the same meaning
in law that they have in common parlance. They are not at
all uncertain, if taken connectively, as to the locality intended
for the western line of Georgia on the Chattahoochee. Separate the word bank from" on and along the bank," and consider
it only in connnection with the other words,' running up tbe
river , and it might be inferred that the water of the river, at'
some stage of it, was to be the boundary, and that those owning the land on either side were riparian proprietors, usque ad
filum aqua. But not so when they are considered together, as
we will presently show.
When the commissioners used the words bank and river, they
did so in the popular -sense of both. When banks of rivers
were spoken of, th6se boundaries were meant which contain'
their waters. at their highest flow, and in that condition they
make what is called the bed of the river. They knew that
rivers have banks, shores, water, and a bed, and that the outer
line on the bed of a river, on either side of it, may be distinguished upon 6very stage of its water, high or low; at its
highest or lowest current. It neither takes in, overflowed land'
beyond the bank, nor includes swamps or low grounds liable to
be overflowed, but reclaimable for meadows or agriculture, ox
which, being too low for reclamation, though not always covered'

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Iugersoll.

with water, may be used for cattle to range upon, as natural
or uninclosed pasture. But it may include spots lower than
the bluff or bank, whether there is or is not a growth upon
them, not forming a part of that land which, whether low or
high, we know to be upland or fast lowland, if such spots are
within the bed of the river. Such a line may be found upon
every river, from its source to its mouth. It requires no scientific exploration to find or mark it out. The eye traces it in
going either up or down a river, in any stage of water. With
such an understanding of what a river is, as a whole, from its
parts, there is no difficulty in fixing the boundary-line in question. Wherever that outer bed-line shall be, from its beginning
on the bank, at the 31st degree of north latitude, to the mouth
of the Uchee, on the western side, is the western boundary of
Georgia on the bank and along the bank running up the River
Chattahoochee.
If the language of the article had been, " beginning on the western bank of the Chattahoochee, and running thence up the river,"
and no more had been said, the middle thread of the river ordinarily, and without any reference to the fact that Georgia was
the proprietor of the river, it would have been said to be the
dividing line between the two States. But there is added,
"running up the said River Chattahoochee and along the western bank thereof." This last controls any uncertainty there may
be; for if the first call or object to locate the line is the bank of
the river, it is plain that the western limit of Georgia on and
along the bank of the river, must be where the bank and the
water meet in its bed Within the natural channel or passage of
the river. The words "alon g the bank," added to the words, "on
the bank," distinguish this case from all of those in which courts
have had the greatest difficulty where a line was to be fixed
when it is on the bank without a call for the stream or along
the river, or up or down the river. Angell, 19. Along the bank,
is strong and definite enough to exclude the idea that any part
of the river or its bed was not to be within the State of Georgia. It controls any legal implication of a contrary character.
Such a line, too, satisfies the calls on and along the bank in the
navigable and unnavigable parts of the river. In the former,
Alabama has all the uses of the river, including the use of the
western bank for navigation and commerce, which the State of
Georgia can claim. In that part of the river not navigable,
Georgia has both soil and juri diction for all such purposes as
are implied by both, and the stream or water of the river for all
such purposes as it may be used in any stage of the water.
Such a line may be made certain on every part of the river)
whatever may be the changes on the western bank from wash-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

417

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

ings, the abrasions of extraordinary floods, or froni any of those
sudden causes which in nature change the beds of rivers. In
such cases the proprietors would continue to hold according to
the original boundaries of their grants. We repeat, "along the
bank thereof," is the controlling call in the interpretation of the
cession. It excludes the idea that a line was to be traced at the
edge of the water as that may be at one or another time or at
low water, or the lowest low water. Water is not a call in the
description of the boundary, though the river is, and that, as we
have shown, does not mean water alone, but banks, shores,
water, and the bed of the river. If water, as one of the river's
parts, had been meant, it would have been so expressed.
The call is for the bank, the fast land which confines the water
of the river in its channel of bed in its whole width, that is to
be the line. The bank or the slope from the blvff or perpendicular of the bank may not be reached by the water fobi two thirds
of the year, still the water ]ine impressed upon the bank above
the slope is the line required by the commissioners, and -the
shore of the river, though left dry for any time, and but occasionally covered by water in 'any stage of it to the bank, was retained by Georgia as the river up to that line.. Wherever it
may be found, it is a part of the State of Georgia, and not a
part of Alabama. Both bank and bed are to be ascertained by
inspection, and tne line is where the action of the water has
permanently marked itself upon the soil. Wherever that line
may be, is to be determined in each trial at-law by the jury tipon
proofs, the jury being instructed by the court-that the bed of the
river, wherever that may be, belongs to Georgia, whether it ex.
tends at certain points to the face of the bank where, from -the
perennial flow of the water therels no margin, or to other points
where there is.
We must reject, altogether, the aftempt to trace. the line by
either ordinary low water or low water. These terms are only
predicable of those parts of rivers within the ebb and flow of the
tides, to distinguish the water line at spring or neap tides. Such
a difference is uniform twice within every month of the year,
and because it is so it is termed ordinary. In that part of a
river in which there is no ebb and flow, the changes in the current are irregular and occasional, without fixed quantity or time
of recurrence, except as they are periodical with the wet and dry
seasons of the year. And low water is the furthest receding
point of ebb tide. Nor do we think that the interpretation of
this article, is aided by any cases upon the rights of riparian proprietors. Such rights depend upon calls in grants for land either'
from sovereignties having an equal right in the stream to the
thread of the river, or from grants from a State having the en-

418 "

SUPREME

COURT.

Hcward et al. v. Ingarsoll

tire ownership of a river. In this instance, two sovereignties
were dealing for a cession of country from one to the other, with
-a river as a boundary between them to be marked on that bank
of it from which the ceded land was to commence. No*, as
between them, there were no antecedent calls upon the river
to raise the question of riparian rights. But, on the contrary,
the river at the time formed a part of what was Georgia, and
the commissioners negotiated upon the footing, that though the
United States had formed the Mississippi 'Rerritory, it was done
with the disclaimer in terms, that it. in no-way whatever should
affect either the rights of sovereignty or soil which- Georgia had
in the territory. Moreover, we do not think that the commissioners could have contemplated that the State of Georgia and
the United States were to have a divided or equal sovereignty
in the river, or that the United States was to retain any iight
of soil in the same, when we find the commissioners in terms
calling for the boundary-line between Spain and the United
States in the middle of the Chattahooche, and then transferring
the western line of Georgia to the western bank of it.
If the running water of the river had been intended to be the
line, and that the United States and Georgia were to have an
equal right of soil and sovereignty in the bed of the river, on Lhe
western bank, why was it that the middle cf the river at latitude
31 degrees north, was abandoned for the western bank? The only
answer which can be given is, that Georgia meant to retain the
river to the western bank, and that the United States conceded
it. Again, the pxtension of the line from the middle of the
river at that point to the bank, necessarily excludes that the
water of the river at any stage less than tat which covers the
bed of it, was to be any guide for the line.
We think that the instructions given by the courts below
were erroneous.
Our interpretation of the first article of the cession made by
Georgia to, the United States, is that the western line of Georgia upon the Chattaboochee River, from its beginning in the
31st degree of north latitude to the grext bend thereof, next
above the place where a certain creek or river called Uchee,
(being the first considerable stream on the western side, above
the Cussetas and Coweta towns,) mpties into the said Chattahoochee River, is a line to run up the river on. and along its
western bank, and that the jurisdiction of Georgia in the soil
extends over to the line which is washed by the water, wherever
it covers the bed of the river within its banks. The permanent
fast land bank is referred toas governing the line. From the
lower edge of that bank, the bed of the river commences, avd
Georgia retained the bed of the river from the lower edge of the

I

DECEMBER TERM, 18bl.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

bank on the west side. And where the bank is 'fairly marked'
by the water, that water level will show at all places where the
line is.
Mlr. Justice NELSON.
This is a writ of error to the Supremb Court of the State of
Alabama.
Ingersoll, the plaintiff below, and defendant here, brought an
action against Howard for setting back the water of the River
Chattahoochee upon his lands and mill -by the erection of a dam
across the said river, at the city of Columbus, in the State of
Georgia, by reason whereof the operations of his mill were ob-"
structed, and the use of his premises impaired.
The defendant pleaded the general issue.
On the trial, it appeared that the plaintiff was the owner
of a lot of land held under a patent from the United States,
situate on the west bank of the Chattahoochee River, in theState of Alabama, opposite the city of Colurhbus, and which
let had for its eastern boundary the State of Georgia.
This river has high bluff banks in some parts of it on both
sides, in others, the banks are low, and the adjacent-lands subject to inundations in high water, extending for nearly a mile
from the bank. At the plaintiff's land the banks are from fifteen to twenty feet ,high on both sides, and somewhat abrupt,
and above and below for some distance. The abrupt and high
banks, however, on the plaintiff's side of the river do not extend
down to the water's edge at ordinary low water. Between the
high bluff and the water at this stage, the distance varies from
fifty to one hundred and fifty feet; and this intermediate space
is flat bottom-land, gradually descending from the base of the
bluff to the water, and upon which flat grow trees, such as
pities, oaks, gums, poplars, &c. Upon this flat, the plaintiff's
grist-mill is built, and a road made along under the bluff leading to it. There is, also, a saw-mill and cotton-gin 'factory
standing upon it. And a small portion of the flat is at times
put under cultivation.
In the ordinary state of the river, in' the winter season, the
water covers this 'flat about half way to the high bluff, extending to the base of a bank or ridge of sand ahd gravel; and, in
freshets, the water covers the flats reaching to 'he bluff. It is
only in a full state of the river, or freshets, that the water overflows the sand bank or ridge before mentioned.
I have collected these facts from the two cases before us between these- parties, each of which involves the same general
question.
The plaintiff supplies his grist-mill with water by a wing
dam extended obliquely into the river.

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

The defendant erected a dam across the iver some three hundred yards below the plaintiff's mill, and opposite the city of
Columbus. The dam is from four to five feet high; and at an
ordinary stage of the river, the water is thrown back upon the
plaintiff's mill so as to prevent its use. The defendant possesseA a grant of the bed of the river upon which his dam is
erected, derived from the State of Georgia, and extending to
-high-water mark on the western bank of the river.
The court charged the jury, that a person passing from the
State of Georgia across the River Chattahoochee to the State
of Alabama, at ordinary low water, would be upon the bank as
soon as he left the water on the ,western side ; and, that the line
described in the treaty of cession from Georgia to the United
States, as running up said river, and along the western bank
thereof, is the line impressed upon the land by ordinary low
water, to which charge the defendant excepted.
The defendant asked the court to charge, that, if the bank of
the river was ordinary low-water mark, the plaintiff had no right
to the'use of the water at that stage, which was also refused.
and an exception taken.
This case involves a question of much higher interest and
importance than a. simple decision upon the rights of these
parties, as the court see that the decision cannot be reached
.without a determination of the boundary-line between two
sovereign States, for a distance of some or-e hundred and ifty
miles. The facts in the record are few, being confined to a description of the localities respecting this boundary at the point
in dispute, and the few that are disclosed, very imperfectly and
confusedlystated. It is to be regretted that the court is obliged
to pass upon a question of this magnitude under these embarrassments, and in the absence of any opportunity, on the part of
the two States interested, to furnish the necessary topographical
information in respect to the river Chattahoochee and its western banks for the whole distance within which they constitute
the boundary between them.
This information would have been-useful to aid the court in
a proper determination. of the question, and would naturally
have been furnished, if the controversy had been between the
States themselves.
The words of the cession of Georgia to the United States, in
1802, describing the boundiry-line in question, and which are
inaterial to be noticed, are- as follows: -Georgia cedes the territory 4' west of a line- beginning on the western bank of the
Chattahoochee River, running thence up the said River Chattahoochee, and along the western bank thereof and the great
bend;" and the United States cede to Georgia all their rights

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

421

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

to the territory lying "east of the boundary-line herein described
as the eastern boundary of the territory ceded by Georgia to the
United States."
This is the description of a line that has become the boundary
between Georgia and Alabama, for a distance of one hundred
and fifty miles.
Two constructions are contended for, arising out of the desc Lption: On the part of Georgia, it is claimed, that her boundary extends to high-water mark, on the western bank of the
Chattahoochee River for the whole length of this line. On the
part of Alabama, that it stops at ordinary low-water mark, on
the western bank of said river.
The difference is very material, as it will be seen, that upon
the former construction, Alabama can have a water or river
line for her boundary only during high water or a freshet, which
is but an occasional and temporary state of the river; and consequently the owners of the land on the Alabama side, for the
greater portion of the year, and, for all practical use of the water
for agricultural or hydraulic purposes, would be deprived of a
river boundary. And this difference is the more striking when
we see, from the. evidence in the record, scanty and meagre as it
is, the stip of land between the high bank and the river, that is,
between high and ordinary low-water mark, would be from ten
to twenty and more rods in width, varying with'the character
of the bank, which would belong to Georgia, or to the owners
on the Georgia side of the river; and over which the jurisdiction and government of Georgia would necessarily extend to the
exclusion of Alabama.
We have no evidence, in the record, as to the distance the tide
ebbs and flows up this river. It probably does not reach the
point where the boundary in question begins, which is at the
31st degree of north latitule. It is navigable for steamboats up
to Columbus, which is within some thirty or forty miles of its
termination as a boundary between the two States; and, as I
am informed, is navigable above the great bend, or west point,
for small craft, for some one hundred miles, though interrupted
by rocks and falls between that and Columbus.
Grants of land, bounded by the sea or, by navigable rivers,
where the tide ebbs and flows, extend to high-water mark, that
is, to the margin of the periodical. flow of the tide, unaffected by
extraordinary causes, and the shores below common high-water
mark belong to the State in which they are situated. But
grants of land bounded on rivers above tide-watei, or where the
tide does not ebb and flow, carry the grantee to the middle of
the river, anless there are expressions in the terms of the grant,
or something n the terns taken in connection with the situa"VOL.. ,i

36

422

SUPREME

COURT.

Howard et al. v. Ingeroll.

tion and condition of the lands granted, that clearly indicate an
intention to stop at the edge or margin of the river. There
must be a reservation or restriction, express or necessarily im-

plied, which controls the operation of the general presumption,
and makes the particular grant an exception.
These are familiar principles of universal application, govern.
ing the- construction of grants of land bounded upon the sea or
tide-water, or upon freshwater rivers, navigable or unnavigable, and Whether made by States or individuals, or in large or
small tracts. And in applying them to the description of the
cession before us, we shall be enabled to. determine where the
boundary-line in dispute should be drawn. The words are,
"beginning on the western bank of the Chattahooehep River,"
"running thence up the said River Chattahoochee, and along
the western bank thereof."
Where land adjoining a freshwater river, or above tide-water,
is described as bounded .by 4 monument, whether natural or
, artificial, such as a tree or a stake standing on the bank, and a
course is given' as running from it up. or down the river to
another monumeit standing upon the bank, these words necessarily imply, as a'general rule; that the line is to follow the
river, according to its meanderings and turnings, and the grantee
takes to the rmiddl of the river. Such is the uniform construction given t. this description where the common law prevails.
It has been repeatedly applied to grants abutting on the River
Mississippi, the Missouri, the Hudson, the Connecticut, and other
great rivers in the United States, above tide-water. 3 Kent's Com.
27, 428,429, and notes; Angell on Watercourses, c. 1, ed. 1850.
Had the description in this case been limited to the first two
calls in thegrant, it would have been impossible to have taken
it out of this rule of construction:; and the owners on the Alabama side would have been carried to the middle of the river.
But the third call, which is, "'along the western bank thereof,"
limits the effect: and operation of the other' two, arkd excludes
the b6d of the river. It inqicatn an intent to reserve the river
within the boundary and jurisdiction of Georgia, and to confine
the grantee to the western edge or bank. And this raises the
material and important question in the case, namely, where shall
that line be drawn? On behalf of Gforgia, it is contended, it
shall be drawn on the bank or bluff, as described in the record,
at high-water mark; on -behalf of Alabama, at the bank or
idge of sand and gravel, where the westeria Margin of the river
is found at ordinary low-water m~rk.
Now, it is to be observed, that. the language of the cession,
begitining on the western bank and running thence up the river
and along the bank, does not necessarily, nor, as I think, reason-

DECEMBER TERM, .1851.

423

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

ably, call for a line along the bliff or high bank, such as confines,
the body of water in. the river at high water, or when swollen
with floods. The bank inclosing the flow of water, when at
its ordinary and usual stage, is equally within the description;
and the limit within this bank, on each side, is more emphatically the bed of the river, than that embraced within the more
elevated banks when the river is at flood. These are more or
less distant from the ordinary channel, depending upon the
character of the river and topography of the adjacent lands.
There are usually in rivers of this description banks representing the point which is reached at high water. and which bound
it at that stage of the river. They may be, and not unfrequently
are, at a considerable distance from the accustomed bed and
the banks which then bound it, The flats intermediate may
comprise the most valuable portion of farmsbowided~upon the
river and extending back to the uplands, notwithstandinlg they
may be inundated by the spring and fall freshets. The valleys
of the Mohawk, and Hudson, and Connecticut Rivers, may be
referred to as illustrations, and also the Susquehannah, both in
New York and Pennsylvania. Some 6f the finest alluvial b6ttom land in New York is found i'i the valley of 'the Mohawk,
between the banks of the river at its usual stage and the banks
at high water, which is the beginning of the uplands. If these
alluvial bottoms are found in the valley of the Chattahooche,
and for aught I know they may be, according to the boundaryline contended for by the plaintiff in error, the.settlements'within
the State of Georgia would not be bounded by the river;. as
most valuable possessions for sites of towng, and for hydraulic
and even agricultural purposes, might be foiund lying along its
western margin.
I cannot think that it is necessary to occupy more time in
attempting to refute the claim to this boundary-line according
to the terms used in the cession by Georgia.
Then, if we leave the bank at what is called- high-water mark,
as not given by any reasonable interpretation of the grant, on
what principle or rule of construction is an Intermediate line to
be drawn short of the ordinary and permanent bed of the river.
It would be, a boundary wholly undefinahle, and designated
neither by high water nor low water, nor by the usual stage, but
left to vibrate between what is called high water and the accustomed bed of the river.
The term high water, when applied to the. sea, or to a river
where the tide ebbs and flows, has a definite meaning. The
line is marked by the periodical flow of the tide, excluding the
advance of waters above this line in the one case by winds and
storms, and in the other by freshets -r floods.

424

SUPRtER COUVRT.
Howard et al. v. Ingessll.

But in respect to freshwater rivers, the term is altogether indeflnitei and the line marked uncertain. It has no fixed meaning in the sense of high-water mark when applied to a river
where the tide ebbs and flows, and should never be adopted as
a boundary in the case of freshwater rivers, by intendment or
construction, whether between States or individuals. It may
mean -any stage of the -water above its ordinary height, and the
line Will fluctuate with every varying freshet or flood that may
happen.
Ili our judgment, the true boundary-linb intended by Georgia
and the United States, and the one fairly deducible from the
language of the cession, is the line marked by the permanent
bed of the river by the flow of the water at its usual arid accustomed stage, and where the water will be found at all times in
the season except when diminished by drought or swollen by
freshets. This line will be found marked along its borders by
the almost constant presence and abrasion of the waters against
the- bank. It is always manifest to the eye of any observer
upon a river, and is marked in a way not to be mistaken. The
junction of bank and water.at this stage of the river satisfies
the words of the cession, and furnishes a line as fixed and certain as is practicable; and is just and reasonable to all the parties concerned. It excludes the high bluffi or bankswhich the
rier touches but occasionally) when swollen with freshets or
floods; and also 'an intermediate'line, which can be neither
marked nor described; and adopts a boundary along the bank
and margin of the river of some- permanency, and which parties providing for a river boundary between them would naturally have in their minds. That they intended a river boundary in this treaty of cessiol. I cannot doubt. That Georgia
intended to reserve to h6rself the bed of the -river is equally clear.
The line which I have desigiiated satisfies both intentions, and,
in my humble judgment, no other boundary-line will.
There are some general consid6rations bearing upop the question which should not be overlooked.
This court observed, in the case of Handley's Lessee v. Anthony, (5 Wh. 374, 379,) through the Chief Justice, that "when
a great river is the boundary between two nations or states, if
the original property is in neither" apd there be no convention
respecting'. it, each holds to the middle of the stream. But
when, as in this case, one State is the original proprietor, and
grants the territory on one side only, it retains the river within
its own domain, and the newly-created State extends to the
river only. The river, however, is the boundary"
"In case
of doubt," says Vattel, "every country lying upon a river is
presumed to have no other limits but the river; because nothing

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

425

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

is more natural than to take a river for a boundary when a
state is established on its borders; and wherever there is doubt,
that is always to be presumed which is most natural and probable."
Again the court say, "Even when a State retains its dominion over a river which constitutes the boundary between itself
and another State, it would be extremely inconvenient to extend
its dominion over the land on the other side which was left bare
by the receding of the water. Wherever the river is a boundary b tween States, it is the main, the permanent river which
constitutes that boundary; and the mind will find itself embarrassed with insurmountable difficulty in attempting to draw any
other line than the low-water mark."
These views are sound and just, and the mind at once assents
to them. And they apply directly and with great cogency to
the question before us.
Let us now return to the case immediately under consideration. The court instructed the jury that the boundary-line described in the treaty of cession from Georgia to the United
States, as running up the said river and along the banks thereof, was, the line impressed upon the land by ordinary low water.
I am not certain but that the line here designated, or rather intended to be designated, is the same that we have attempted to
define in this opinion. " Ordinary low water," however, like
"1low water," is a relative term, and, in the abstract and without
practicable application, has no definite meaning, and furnishes
no satisfactory guide by which to ascertain or determine the
line in question. I freely admit, that if the terms of the cession
would justify the interpretation given to that of the territory
north-west of the Ohio, I should greatly prefer the line adopted
in Handley's Lessee v. Anthony, which was low-water mark.
But the call here for the bank seems necessarily to connect
tbha,t with the river in defining the boundary,, and restricts it
somewhat to a greater extent than in the description of the line
in the case mentioned.
As the general question involved is one of very great importance, and the ruling not necessarily conveying the instruction
I think should have been given, I agree that a new trial should
be granted.
The defendant requested the court to instruct the jury that,
if the bank of the river was ordinary low-water mark, the plaintiff had no right to use the water at that stage, which was
refused.
This instruction, we suppose, was asked for on the ground
that, admitting the boundary-line to be fixed at ordinary lowwater mark, inasmuch as the bed of the river within that limit
36*

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

belonged to Georgia, and the defendant's grant, derived from
that State, atithorized the erection of his darn to the height
claimed, he had a right to set back the water up the bed within
the aforesaid limit; and the complaint, therefore, that the backwater interfered with the supply of water to the plaintiff'' mill,
by obstructing the natural current of the river, was unfounded,
as the defendant had a right,-to this extent, to obstruct it. If
this was the meaning of the instruction prayed for, there was
error in the refusal.
Undoubtedly the plaintiff has no right, under his grant from
the United States, to erect a dam in the bed of the river 'ithin
the boundary-line of Georgia, for the purpose of supplying his
mill with water. But I am not prepared to admit, that he can.not supply it by diverting the water upon his own land, without
,crossing the boundary-line, as by sinking a trench or ditch, if by so
doing he works no injury to the rights of others. Every proprietor
of land on the banks of a river has naturally an equal right to the
use of the water which flows in the stream adjacent to his lands.
No proprietor has a right to use the water to the prejudice of other
proprietors, above or below, unless he has acquired a prior right
to divert it. He has no property in the water itself, but a simple
usufruct while it passes along. Any ore may reasonably use
-it who has a right of access to it; but no one can set up a claim
to an exclusive right to the flow of all the water in its natural
state; and that what he may not wish to use himself shall
flow on till lost in the ocean.
Streams of water are intended for the use and comfort of
man; and it would be unreasonable, and contrary to the universal sense of mankind, to debar a riparian proprietor from the
-application of the water to domestic, agricultural, and manufacturing purposes, provided the use works no substantial injury to
others.
These principles will be found stated more at large by Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, (3 Kent's Com. 439, 440, 441) ;
and also by Parke, J., in a very recent case in the Court of Exchequer in England, (Embry and another v. Owen, 4 Eng. Law
-and Eq. R. 466, 476, 477.)
Mr. Justice GRIER.
I concur with my brother Nelson.
Mr. Justice CURTIS.
In these cases I concur with the majority of the court in the
opinion that each of the judgments should be reversed, but I
withheld my assent from much of the reasoning contained in
the opinion. I do so, because I am not entirely satisfied of its

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

427

Howard et al. v. Ingersoll.

correctness, as I apprehend its extent and bearings; and because the cases involve a question of boundary between the
States of Georgia and Alabama, and highly important riparian
and other rights connected therewith, or dependent thereon, in'
reference to which I desire to stand committed to no opinion,
and to no course of reasoning, beyond what seems to me absolutely necessary for a final decision upon the private rights now
before us.
This obliges me to state my own views of whiat I deem
necessary to be decided, and the conclusions at which I have
arrived. I shall do so very briefly, and without entering into
an examination of the principles and authorities which have
brought my mind to those conclusions.
ly opinion is: -1.
That the calls contained in the act of
cession, place the western line of Georgia on the western bank
of the Chattahoochee River, at the place in question in these
cases.

2. That the act of cession is silent as to the particular part'
of the bank on which the line is to be run.' But inasmuch as
it must be run on some particular part of the bank, we are
obliged to resort to the presumed intentions of the commissioners
and the parties, inferable from the nature of the line, as a line of
boundary of political jurisdiction as well as of praprietorship,
and, according to that presumed intention, we must declare it
to be on that part of the bank which will best promote the convenience and advantage of both parties and most fully accomplish the apparent and leading purpose to establish a natural
boundary.
3. That the banks of a river are those elevations of land which
confine the waters when they rise out of the bed; and the bed is
that soil so usually covered by water as to be distinguishable from
thd banks, by the character of the soil, or vegetation, or both, produced by the common presence and action of flowing water. But
neither the line of ordinary high-water mark, nor of ordinary lowwater mark, nor of a middle stage of water, can be assumed as
the line dividing the bed from the banks. This line is to be
found by examining the bed and banks, and ascertaining where
the presence and action of water are so common and usual, and
so long continued in all ordinary years, as to mark upon the soil
of the bed a character distinct from that of the banks, in respect
to vegetation, as well as in respect to the nature of the soil
itself. Whether this line between the bed and the banks will be
found above or below, or at a middle stage of water, must depend upon the character of the stream. The height of a
stream, during much the larger part of the year, may be above
or below a middle point between its highest and least flow.

428

SUPREME COURT.
Howard et al. v.

Inger3oll.

Something~must depend also upon the rapidity of the stream
and other circumstances. But in all cases the bed of a river is
a natural object, and is to be sought for, not merely by the application of any abstract rules, but as other natural objects are
sought for and found, by the distinctive appearances they present; the banks being fast land, on which vegetation, appropriate to such land in the particular locality, grows wherever the
bank is not too steep to permit such growth, and the bed being
soil of a different character and having no vegetation, or only
such as exists when commonly submerged in water.
4. Taking along with us these views respecting the bed and
banks of a river, it will be obvious that the lowest line of the
bank, being the line which separates the bank from the bed, is
a natural line, capable of being found in all parts of the river,
impressed on the soil; and this is true of no other line on the
bank; for though in some places the banks of a river may have
so marked a character, that there would be no difficulty in tracing the upper line of the bank, and pronouncing, with certainty,,
that the bank'there terminates, yet it is not to be supposed that
this would be true throughout the course of a long river, and
one of these cases finds, that in some places the banks of this
river are low, and the adjacent lands on either side subject to
occasional inundation. In such places it would be impracticable to fix on a precise line as the upper termination of the
bdnk. Now, it is clear, that inasmuch as this line of the act
of cession was to be a line of boundary of political jurisdiction, it ,must have been deemed by the commissioners when
they fixed it, and by the parties when they assented to it, of
great importance, to have a natural boundary, capable, not only of
being ascertained upon inquiring, but of being seen and recognized in the comm9n practical affairs of life. And, therefore, I
am of opinion, that as the calls for this line do not expressly
require it to be on any particular part of the bank, it should be
located on.the bank where the leading purpose, to have a natural boundary between the t.wo jurisdictions,, will be most
effectually attained. The convenience and advantage of both
parties require this. The line, therefore, is at the lowest edge
of the bank, being the same natural line wvhich divides the bank
from the bed of the river.
The above brief statement of my views, while it exhibits all
to which I have given my assent in these cases, will show why
I concur in the opinion that the rulings, brought before us by
these writs of error, were erroneous.
Order in No. 121.
This cause. came on to be heard on the transcript of the re-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

429

Norris v. Crocker et al.

cord from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and
was'argued by counsel On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the 'aid Supreme Court to be proceeded
with in conformity.to the opinion of this court, and as to law
and justice may appertain.
Order in No. 131.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Georgia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venirefacias de novo, and to proceed
therewith, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

TonN NoRRIs, PLAINTIFF, V. EDWIN B. CROCKER AND ELISRA
EGBEIT.
The fourth section of the act of Congress, approved on the 12th day of February,
1793, (1 Stat. at Large, 302,) entitled "An act respecting fugitives escaping from
justice, and persons escaping from the service of their masters," is repealed, so far
as relates to the penalty, by the act of Congress approved September 18th, 1850,
(9 Stat. at Large, 462,) entitled "An act to amend, and supplementary to, the ab6ve
actu"
Therefore, where an action for the recovery of the penalty prescribed in the act of
1793 was pending at the time of the repeal, sucb repeal is a bar to the action.

Tins case came up from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Indiana, upon a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
The following certificate explains the question:
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

District of Indiana.
At a Circuit Court of the United States, begun and holden at
Indianapolis, for the District of Indiana, on Monday, the nineteenth day of May, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
fifty-one, and continued from day to day until Friday, the thirtieth day of May, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-one.

