DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

261

The Heirs of Don Carlos de Vilemont v. The United States.

conditions his contract imposed, so could everr other claimant
who had neither taken possession, nor in
"ny
manner complied
with his contract, do the same; and on this assumption, concessions issued by France or Spain would be'without condition,
and a simple grant of the land described in the -paper. Its
genuineness, and proof of identity of the land, would settle the
question of title.
No tribunal has ever accorded any credence to this claim; two
boards of commissioners have pronounced it invalid: the first in
1811, and the second in 1835. The latter on the ground that
the conditions of the 'grant had not been complied with. By
this decision it fell into the mass of 'public lands, according to
the 3d section of the act of July 9, 1832, which declares that
the lanis contained in the second class (being those rejected)
shall b- subject to sale'as other public lands. Bythe act of 17th
June, 1944, another opportunity was afforded to apply to the
District 'Court for a confirmation; that court agreed with the
boards of commissioners, and again declared the claim invalid,
because the conditions had not been complied with, and dismissed the petition; and with this decree we concur.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the District of
Arkansas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said District Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed.
THE HEIs

OF DON CARLOS DE VILEMONT, APPELLANTS, V.
THE: UNITED STATES.

In 1795, Baron de Carondelet, the Governor-General of Louisiana. made a grant of
land on the Mississippi River, upon condition that a road and clearing should be
made within one year, and an establishment made upon the land uithin three
years.
Nither of these conditions was complied with, nor was possession taken under the
grant until after the cession of the country to the United States.
The excuses for these omissions, namely, that the grantee was commandant at the
post of Arkansas, and that the Indians were hostile, are not satisfactory; because the grantee must have known these circumstances when he obtained the
grant.
According to the principles established in the preceding ease of Glenn and Thruston v. The United States, the Spanish authorities would not have confirmed this
grant, neither can this court confirm it.
Moreover, in this case, the land claimed cannot he located by a survey.

Tins was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Arkansas.

SUPREME COURT.
The Heirs of Don Carlos de Vilemont v. The United States.

It was a.petition filed by the heirs of Don Carlos 'de Vilemont under the act of 1824, as revived by the act of 1844,
praying the confirmation of a grant of land issued by the Baron
de Carondelet in 1795.
The circumstances attending the grant are set forth in the
opinion of the court.
The District Court decided against the claim and the petitioners appealed to this court.
In the District Court, Horace F. Walworth, Mary B. Miles,
and James B. Miles, were made defendant6 with the United
States.
It was argued-in this court by Sir. Taylor, for-the appellants,
and Mr.Lawrence and Mr.Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for
the appellees. A brief was also filed by .r.Pike for Mr. Walwortb

.Mr. Taylor, for the appellants, .thus noticed the omission of
Vilemoit to comply with the conditions of the grant. (It will
be seen, by referring to the opinion of tha court, that this -was
an important point in the case.)
The confirmation ot the claim ip resisted in the answer of
the District Attorney, on the ground that the conditions of the

grant vtre not complied with. The conditions, as has already
been stated, were those almost invariably inserted in orders of
survey, that a road and a settlement shculd be made within a
given day.

The record contains the testimony of tvo aged

inhabitants of Louisiana, who, as officers in the same regiment
in which Vilembnt served many years, were attached to the
person of the Governor, and one of whom was employed in the
Land-Office in New Orleans, showing that these conditions
*were mere matters of form and mechanically inserted with the
orders of survey, without inquiring into the situation of the
land. They add that they never were enforced, and that no
land was ever forfeited under the Spanish governiment on account of a non-compliance with these conditions. This testimony is emphatically confirmed by Judge. Simon, for many
-years a practising lawyer in Louisiana, and during six years
a judge of the Supreme Court of that State, before whose
eyes probably thousands of such claims have passed.
In this instance the land was asked for to establish a stock
farm. What necessity was there to cultivate it, if such was
the purpose of the grant? And how much of the two leagues
front and one in depth should have been cultivated and established? The land was twenty-five leagues below the mouth of
the Arkansas, and -more than that distance from any white set-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

263

The Heirs of Don Carlos de Vilemont v. The United States.

tlement. What use would there have been for a road, and
where would it have been ?

But if these conditions, in such a case, were more than an

idle formality, Vilemont would have been relieved from a com-

pliance with them. In 1795, when the grant was made, and
until 1802, Vilemont was the civil and military commandant
of the post of Arkansas. During all this period he never left his
post, not even to visit New Orleans. His presence'there w~s
constantly required by the threatening aspect of the Indian
tribes by whom he was surrounded, while the garrison of the
fort never exceeded forty men. Eight letters from Governor
Carondelet to Vilemont, (which will be found on pp. 72-76 of
the printed and Vilemont's official correspondence with the
Governor of Louisiana, until his appointment to a higher office;
in 1802,) furnish a striking proof of the arduous service in which
he was engaged, and of ceaseless feuds among the Indians, and
attacks upon the whites, and leave no doubt that even a temporary absence from the command would not have been tolerated
by the Governor. Can it be pretended that, under these circumstances, the government seriously, and under pain of forfeiture, expected him to make a road within one year, and a settlement within three years, upon this rude and remote spot? The
government kept him until 1802 at the post of Arkansas; the
government then removed him to a new scene of service, and
this, if any case, falls under the rule established in the United
States v. Arredondo et al., 6 Pet. 745. "It is an acknowledged
fact that if a grant is made on a condition subsequent, and its
performance becomes impossible by the act of the grantor, the
grant becomes single."
The other reason why a settlement could not be required of
Vilemont is, that hostile Indians made it impossible. Vilemont
was not bound, though he might have attempted, to form a
settlement by agents. Indeed, already, in 1795 or 1796, he sent
Bogy there with that object, but Bogy was driven off by the
Indians. Nor did the danger from the Indians cease until a
number of years after the change of government.
lr. Crittenden, for the United States, made the following
points:
I. That the appeal ought to be dismissed for want of being
duly prosecuted.
II. That the appellants' ancestor was never put in possession
of the lands, and the conditions on which the concession was
made were not performed during the time therein limited, or
during the sovereignty of Spain over the country, or subse.
uently.

264

SUPREME COURT.

The Heirs of Don Carlos de Vilemont v. The United States.

There is no evidence whatever that the Surveyor-General, or
a deputy approved by him, ever put Vilemont into possession
of the lands- as required by the terms of the concession. No
survey was ever made, and no plat and certificate were ever reported to the governor, and no title in form could therefore have
been issued to Vilemont at any time during -the continuance of
the Spanish power.
The petition of de Vilemont sets forth his desire to establish a
plaitation and stock farm, in order to supply the post, of which
he was commandant, with cattle. This is the inducement he
presents to de Carondelet to make the concession. It was accordingly made to him under the express condition that he -shall
make the regular road and clearing within the peremptory* term
of one year, the concession to be null, if,at the precise expiration of three years, the land should not be, established.
From the date of the grant, in 1795, until the delivery of
Louisiana to the United States, in 1803, he had completely
failed to comply with the conditions above mentioned, and
theieby forfeited all right to require a title in form. He had
done nothing whatever.. This, therefore, is not such a concession as might have been perfected into a complete title had not
the sovereignty of the country been transferred to the United
States.
But to exanue the evidence on the point of non-performance
of the conditions presented in the record:
The appellants themselves state, in their petition, that De Vilemont "endeavored, soon after the date of said concession, to
procure persons to make a settlement, but could not succeed"
on account of the danger arising from-hostile Indians. It
further states, "that in the year 1803 he again attempted a
settlement, but that, from the year 1807," he, or persons employed by him or his family, had been in actual possession of
part of the land.
The above is the petitioners' own statement. In jbix, m De
Vilemont's lifetime, when he presented his claim to the recorder
of land titles, he did not submit a particle of proof to show that
he had done any thing with respect to establishing the stock
farm, making the road, or settling the land. Joseph Bogy, his
father-in-law then testified that he, De Vilemont, proposed to
witness to settle on the tract, but that he declined on account
of the supposed danger from the Indians, which continued until
1803. Francis de Vaugene also then testified that the Indians
continued so hostile as to make it unsafe to settle at Isle Chicot
till the year 1803.
* The Spanish word is printed percutorio;it should have been ixren~torio. All
the translators agree in translating peremptor.o.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

265

Tho Heirs of Don Carlos de Vilemont v. The United States.

It will thus be seen that De Vilemont made no pretence then,
or offered no proof to show, that he had fulfilled any of the con"ditions,but he sets up an excuse merely for not having done so.
The recorder, under the column titled "possession, inhabitation,
or cultivation," states, "danger from the Indians prevented settlement," and gives his opinion that the claim ought not to be
confirmed, the conditions not having been complied with.
Mr. Crittenden then examined the evidence.
But it is said that De Vilemont could not leave his post to
attend to the performance of the conditions, that he was prevented from performance by danger froni the Indians, and that
the conditions were merely formal.
The answers to the first of these excuses are obvious. De
Vilemont styles himself, in the petition to Baron de Carondelet,
the commandant of the post of Arkansas, and asks for the land
at the place it is given, the inducement being, that he might
furnish cattle to the post. It would be strange if, under these
circumstances, his not being allowed to leave the post should
excuse the performance of the conditions. As to being prevented from establishing the stock farm, and performing the
other conditions, by danger from the Indians, he knew that tue
Indians were in the country at the time he made the application; and if he sought for a concession, the conditions of which
he could not comply with, it can afford no exemption from their
performance. As to the allegation that the conditions were
merely formal, it is negatived by the third article of O'Reilly's
regulation, where the non-performance of the conditions as to
roads, settlements, &c., is thus spoken of: "And in default of
fulfilling these conditions, their land shall revert to the king's domain, and be granted anew." 2 White's Recop. 228. These
regulations were approved by the king. See letter of Marquis
de Grimaldi to Unzaga, 24th August, 1770, Id. 460. See also
the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth articles of regulations of Morales, Id. 235.
III. That the evidence in the case shows that De Vilemont
had abandoned his claim to the land.
IV. That the concession is void, because no land was severed
from the public domain by survey giving it a certain location,
previous to the treaty of cession, and the descripion is so vague,
indefinite, and uncertain, that no location can be given to the
lands. United States v. Miranda, 16 Pet. 156; United States
v. Boisdor6, 11 How. 63.
V. That the decree as to floats, is void, the individuals holdr
ing the lands in respect of which floats are decreed, not having
been made parties in the case.
VOL. XIII.

266

SUPREME COURT.

The Heirs of Don Carlos de Vilemont p. The United States.

Mr. Justice CATRON .ielivered the opinion of the court.
The heirs of Don Carlos de Vilemont filed their petition in
the District Court of Arkansas, to have a confirmation of a
grant for two leagues of land front, by one league in depth,
lying on the right desceii,' 1ng bank of ihe Mississippi, at a place
called the Island del Chico-, distant twenty-five leagues below
the mouth of the Arkansas River; the cypress swamp of the
island being'called for as the upper boundary of said tract.
The Governor-General granted the land on the express conditions,,' that a road and regular clearing be made in the peremptory space of one year; and this concession to be null, if, at the
expiration of three years' time, the said land shall not be established ; and, during which time it cannot be alienated; under
which conditions the plat and certificate of survey shall be made
out and remitted to me in order to provide the interested with
the corresponding title in form." The concession was made
June 17, 1795. No possession was taken of the land by De
Vilemont, nor any survey made or demanded, during the existence of the Spanish government. The petition alleges that possession was first taken in 1807; and as an excuse for the delay,
it is stated, that the grantee was commandant at the post of
Arkansas up to the end of the year 1802, and confined to his
official duties there; and, 2dly, that so hostile were the Indians
in the neighborhood of the land, that no settlement could be
made on it. The proof shows that De Vilemont first took possession in 1822 or 1823. The 2d regulation of O'Reilly of 1770,
.required that roads should be made and kept in repair, in case
of grants fronting on the Mississippi River; and that grantees
should be bound within the term of three years to clear the
whole front of their lands to the depth of two arpens; and, in
default of fulfilling these conditions, the land claimed should revert to the king's domain; nor should proprietors alienate until
after thtee years' possession was held, and until the conditions
were entirely fulfilled. In this instance the time was restricted
to one year, for making the improvements required by the regulations, and three years were allowed for making an establish:
ment on the premises. In this case where a frbnt of six miles was
granted, a clearing to the whole extent was of course not contemplated; yet to a reasonable extent it certainly was; but it
was undoubtedly necessary, that an establishment should be
made vrithin three years - such being the requirement of the
concession, in concurrence with the regulations.
The act of March 26, 1804, prohibited any subsequent entry
on the land; and declared void all future acts done to the end
of obtaining a perfect title even by at. actual settler, if the
settlement was not made before the 20th of December, 1803;

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

267

The Heirs of Don Carlos do Vilemont v. The .United Stat6s.

De Vilemont's title must therefore abide by its condition when
the act of 1804 was passed. For further views on this subject
we refer to our opinion expressed on Clamorgan's title, at the
present term, in the case of Glenn and Thruston v. The United
States.
We are asked to decree a title, and to award a patent, on the
same grounds that the Governor-General of Louisiana, or the Intenda'nt, would have been bound to do, had application for a perfect title been made during the existence of the Spanish colonial
government. The only consideration on which such title could
have been founded, was inhabitation and cultivation, either by
De Vilemont himself, or his tenants; and having done nothing
of the kind, he had no right to a title; nor can an excuse be
heard that hostility from Indians prevented a compliance with
the conditions imposed, as Vilemont took his concession subject to this risk; and the alleged excuse that he was commandant of the post of Arkansas, and bound to be constantly there
in the performance of his official duties, is still more idle, as he
held this office when the concession was made, and knew what
his duties were.
The petition was dismissed by the District Court. because
the land claimed could not be located by survey. The concession is for two leagues front, by one in depth, with parallel
boundaries, situate at Chicot Island; the cypress swamp on
the island being the upper boundary. Chicot Island is represented in the concession as being twenty-five leagues below the
mouth of the Arkansas River. The land now claimed by the
petition is represented to'lie five leagues below the mouth of
that river, at a place known as Chicot Point; being a peninsula
included in a sudden bend, and surrounded on three sides by the
lississippi-River.
It is difficult to conceive that Chicot Point, lying in fact
nearly twenty-five leagues below the mouth of the Arkansas, is
the Chicot Island to which the concession refers; but admitting
that the Point was meant, (which we believe to be the fact,)
still, no cypress swamp is found there to locate the upper
boundary; nor is it possible to make a decree fixing any one
side line, or any one place of beginning, for a specific tract of
land.
Our opinion is, that, oh either of the grounds stated, the petition should be dismissed, and the decree below affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States, for the Dis-

268

SUPREME COURT.
Neves et al. v. Scott ct al.

trict of Arkansas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.

WILLIAM[ NEVES AND JAMES

C.

NEVES, APPELLANTS,

V..WIL-

LIAM H. SCOTT AND THOMAS N. BEALL, ADMINISTRATORS OF
WILLIAM F. SCOTT, DECEASED, AND GEORGE W. ROWELL AND
LAWRENCE G. ROWELL, EXECUTORS OF RICHARD ROWELL,
DECEASED,

The courts of the United States, under the Constitution and laws, have equity jurisdiction. Unless the general principles of equity hav. been modified by the laws or
usages of a particular State, those general principles will be carried out everywhere
in the same manner, and equity jurisprudence be the same, when administered by
the courts of the United States, in all the States.
Hence, the decision of a State court, in a case which involved only the general principles of equity, and was not controlled by local law or usage, is not binding as
authority upon this court.
In the case of Neves et al. v. Scott et al, reported in 9 Howard, 196, this court

decided two points, -one,

thatvolunteers could, in that case, claim the interference

of chancery to enforce the marriage articles in question
articles constituted an executed trust.

and the other, that the

The Supreme Court of Georgia does not agree with this court upon the first point.
Nevertheless, this court does not change its decision.

Moreover, the second point upon which this court rested the case droes not appear to
have been brought before the Supreme Court of Georgia; and, of course, it expressed no opinion upon the point.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Georgia.
It was argued at December term, 1849, and is reported in 9
How. 196. It being suggested afterwards that, at the time when
the case was argued and decided, Richard Rowell, the principal
defendant, was dead, the judgment was stricken out and the
cause argued again.
It was argued by Mr. .Tonson, for the appellants, and Mr. Cone,
for the appellees.

lir. Cone, for the appellees made the following points:
1st. The marriage contract is executory; it conveys no titles,
and creates no trusts, nor does it impair or abridge the rights of
the husband during the continuance of the coverture. 2 Story's
Eq. Jur. sects. 1, 379, 380, 381, 382, 383. Clancy on Rights,
269; Hill on Trustees, 420.
2d. Roper on Husband and Wife, 16, 161 ; Sca "orough v.

