18

SUPREME COURT.
Ballance v. Forsyth et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of six per centum
per annum.

CHARLES BALLANCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ROBERT
SYTH, LUCIEN iDUNIAIN, AND ANTILONY R. Bovis.

FOR-

On the 15th of May, 1820, Congress passed an act (3 Stat. at Large, 605J) for the
benefit of the inhabitants of tie village of Peoria, by which every person claiming
a lot in the village, was to give notice to the register of the laud-office, whose report was to be laid before Congress.
On the 3d of Warch, 1823, Congress passed another act, (3 Stat. at Large, 786,)
granting to each of the French and Canadian inhabitants, and other settlers according to the report, the lot upon which they had setled; and directed the surveyor of the public lands to'make a plat-of the lots, for which patents were to bo
issued to the claimants.
This survey and plat were not made until April and Mlay, 1837.
In November, 1837, a person who was not a sattler, purchased at the land-office at
private entry, the fractional quarter of land which included some of the above lots,
and soon afterwards obtained a patent. Both the certificate and patent-resbrved
the rights of the claimant under the acts of Congress above mentioned.
In'1845 and 1847, these claimants obtained patents.
They were entitled to recover in ejectment from the persons who held under the pri.
vate entry and patent.
The title of the plaintiffs was not divested by a tax sal- in 1843. The whole fractional quarter section was taxed and one acre off of the east side sold. This sale
was irregular.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Illinois.
It was an ejectment brought by Forsyth, Dumain, and Bovis,
to recover two lots of ground, viz., Nos. 47 and 65, ini he town
of Peoria. .The bills of exceptions extended over thirty-sevenpageg of the printei1 record, and included deeds and depositions
.nd proceedings under a tax sale, &c. &c. It is, therefore, impossible to insert them. The following is a summary notice of
the evidence .offered on the trial by plaintif1s and defendant.
Plaintiff's Evidence.
1. The act of Congress passed on the 16th of May, 1820,
(3 Stat at Large, 605.) It directed that every person whc

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

19

Ballance v. Forsyth et al.

claimed a lot in the village of Peoria, should give notice of his
claim to the register of the land-office, whose report should be
laid before Congress.
2. An act of Congress passed on the 3d of March, 1823,
(3 Stat. at Large, 786,) after the report of the register had
been received. It granted to such of the French and Canadian
inhabitants and other settlers in the village, as had settled
there, prior to the 1st of January, 1813, the lot so settled upon
and improved. The second section of the act required the surveyor of the public lands to cause a survey to be made of the
several lots, and to designate on a plat thereof the lot confirmed
and set apart to each claimant, and to forward the same to the
Secretarq, of the Treasury, who should cause patents to be issued
in favor of such claimants, as in other cases.
This survey and plat were not made until April and May,
1837.
3. A patent to Boushier for lot No. 47, issued on the 27th of
March, 1847.
4. A plat of the village.
5. A plat of lot No. 47.
6. Testimony taken under a commission relative to the settlement of the lots.
7. Deed to plaintiffs, l1th December, 1836.
8. Patent for lot No. 66, Depember 16, 1845.
9. Plat of lot No. 65.
10. Deed to plaintiffs, September 16, 1836.
11. Plats of an addition to the town.
12.1
13. An agreed statement of certain facts.
Defendant's Evidence.
1. A certificate from the register, showing, that on the 15th
of November, 1837, John L. Bogardus entered and .purchased
the south-east fractional quarter of section, No. 9, containing
23 9m3
acres. This included the lots in question.
2. Deed from Bogardus to Underhill of the whole south-east
fractional quarter.
3. Two deeds from Underhill to Ballance, the plaintiff in
error.

4. Proceedings relative to a tax sale. Tle taxes were assessed on the fractional quarter, and an "acre off east side" was
sold to Ballance.
5. Deed under the sale from the sheriff conveying the land in
dispute.
6. An award between Ballance, Bigelow, and Underhill,
whereby the lots in dispute were assigned to Ballance

20

SUPREM£E COURT.
Ballance v. Forsyth et al.

7. Copies of certificatesr'elative to Bogardus's prefmption.
8. Patent to Bogardus, January 5, 1836.
The plaintiffs then offered in evidence a copy of the certificate of entry which the register gave to Bogardus, and which
contained the following reservation:
" Now therefore be it known, that, on presentation of this certificate to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, the
said John L. Bogardus shall be entitled to receive a patent for
the lot above described, subject, however, to the right of any
and all persons claiming under the act of Congress of 3d March,
1823, entitled I An Act to confirm claims to lots in the village
of Peoria, in the State of Iinois/
SAMUEL LEECH,
Register."
The patent contained a similar reservation.
The above was all the material evidence given in the case.
Each party saved the right on the argument of the cause to object to any of said evidence on the ground of the incompetency
or effect of the evidence, but not to make merely formal objections, such as proof of authenticity of papers offered.
It was further agreed that the property in controversy was
worth more than two thousand dollars ;- whereupon the court
instructed the jury to bring in a verdict for the plaintiffs, as by
law they were entitled to recover on the' above facts. To all
of which opinions of the court the defendant excepted, and
prayed this, his bill of exceptions, be sealed, signed, and made
of record, which is accordingly done, &c.
NAi-H'L POPE.

[SEAL.]

Upon this bill of exception, the case came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Ballance, for the plaintiff in error, and
_Mr. Gamble, for the defendants in error.
Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion oi the court.
This cause is brought before us, from the District of Illinois,
by a writ of error.
It is an hction of ejectment to recover the possession of three
lots, numbered 47, 65, and 68, in the town of Peoria, under the
act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1823r.entitled "An act to
confirm certain claims to lots in the village of Peoria." The
claim 47 contains twenty-seven thousand four hundred and
forty-iine square feet and seven hundreths; surveyed and designated as covered by claim 47, in the south-east fractional quarter of fractional section nine, in township 8, north of range
eight, and east of the fourth principal meridian, &c.
SMr.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

21

Ballance v. Forsyth et al.

Lots 65 and 68 contain the same number of square feet, and,
in fact, constitute but one lot, situated in the same fractional
quarter section. Separate suits were brought for these lots, but,
being consolidated, they are included in one. The defendant
below pleaded not guilty.
At the trial exceptions were taken to the rulings of the court,
which present the points of law to be decided.
The whole of the evidence was copied into the bill of exceptions, on which the court instructed the jury to find a verdict for
the plaintiffs, as by law they were entitled to recover on the
facts, to which instruction the defendant excepted.
The parties must have considered this case as a demurrer to
the evidence, or as a special verdict. As there was evidence on
both sides, some of which was conflicting, it could not be considered as strictly a demurrer to evidence. Nor was 4t strictly
a special verdict, as the instruction'was given before the jury
found the facts.
From the whole of the evidence being set out in the bill of
exceptions, we may suppose it to have been the intention of
the parties to treat the facts as agreed or undisputed, in order
that the law applicable to them might be pronounced by the
court.
In sustaining the jurisdiction of this case, it is not to be considered as a precedent. It imposes a labor on the court which
they are not bound to incur. But, as there, seems to be not
much difficulty in the facts, the court will decide the questions
of law, as far as it shall be necessary to examine them.
By the act of the 15th of MNay, 1820, Congress provided that
every person, or the legal representative of every person, who
claims a lot or lots in the village of Peoria, shall, on or before
the first day of October next, deliver to the register of the landoffice, for the district of Edwardsville, a notice of his claim,
and'the register was required to examine the evidence in snpport of the same, and report to the Secretary of the Treasury
such as in his opinion should be confirmed; and the secretary
was required to lay the same before Congress for its determination.
On the 3d of Iarch, 1823, an act was passed granting to
each of the French and Canadian inhabitants, and other settlers
in the village of Peoria, whose claims are ascertained in a report made by the register of the larid-office at Edwardsville, in
pursuance of the act of 1820, and who had settled a lot in the
village prior to the 1st of January, 1813, &c., where the same
shall not exceed two acres; and when the same shall exceed
two acres, more than four acres shall not be confirmed. " Provided nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as to

22

SUPREME COURT.
Ballance v. Forsyth et al.

affect the right, if any such there be, of any other person or
persons to the said lots, or any part of them, derived from the
United States or any other source whatever, or as a pledge on
the part of the United States to make good any deficiency," &c.
And the surveyor of the public lands was required to survey the
lots, designating those confirmed, which survey and plat were to
be returned to the secretary, who was rejuired to issue patents
to the claimants. The surveys, it appears, were not executed
for several years; but, at length, having been made and forwarded to Washington, a patent was issued to the legal representatives of Louis, Le Boushier for lot No. 47, the 27th of
March, 1847. The proviso in the act of 1823 was copied into
the patent.
A plat was in evidence showing that lot No. 47 was situated
in the south-east fractional quarter,-section 9.
Testimony was introdued to show that this lot was inhabit .d
by Le Boushier prior to 1813. On the 11th of December, 1856,
Joseph Touchette and Madeline, his wife, who was the daughter
of Le Boushier, and his only living child and heir, executed a
deed to plaintiff for the above lot.
A patent was also read to Antoine Bourbonne, or to his legal
representatives, dated the 16th of December, 1845, for lot 65,
also covered by claim 68. By the recitals in this patent, it appeared that this claim had been presented to the register, at Edwardsville, and recommended by him for confirmation, on which
the grant was issued under the act of 1823. A plat was ifitro.duced, showing the locality of this lot to be in the same fractional quarter section as No. 47, and also a description of its
boundary.
A deed from Bourbonne to the plaintiffs was in evidence for
the above lot, dated 16th September, 1836.
Charles Ballance was admitted to defend in the place of Lincoin, ihat suit having been consclidated -with the one brought
by the plaintiffs against Goudy fo the other lot. Ballance admits himself to be in possession of lots No. 47 and 65- 68, described in the declaration.
It was agreed that Ballance was in possession*of that portion of said- premises covered by lots one and two in block 51,
more than seven years before the commencement of this suit,
by actual residence with his family thereon, up to 1845, and
from that time by his tenants; and that portion of said premises
north-west of Water Street, in Bigelow and Underhill's addition to Peoria, was possessed more than seven years by the
inclosure and cultivation of the same as a garden.
It was agreed that J. L. Bogardus, in 1832, was in possession
of the south-east fractional quarter of. section 9, township 8,

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Ballance v. Forsyth et al.

"north of range 8, east of the' 4th principal meridian,
and continued in possession. until 1834, when Isaac Underhill went
into possession under Bogardus, and that Ballance was in possession of the premises in dispute under title from Bogardus;
neither of them resided on the premises, but had tenants.
On the 15th of November, 1837,'Bogardus purchased the
south-east fractional quarter of section No. 9. A deed for .the
same was made by Bogardus to Isaac Underhill, dated the 5th
of August, 1834. On the 7th of July, 1841, Underhill and wife
conveyed to Ballance, lots Nos. 8, 9, and 7, in block No. 34, and
lots 5 and 6, in block No. 38, in the above addition to the town.
And, on the 1st of February, 1842, Underhill and wife conveyed
to Ballance lot No. 3, in block 51, in the above addition to the
town.
A record and -proceeding of the county commissioners of
Peoria county, showing that a tax was laid upon real property
in the county, for 1843, and that such tax was imposed on the
south-west and sbutb-east quarters of said section, and that, on
a return of the collector, that the owner had no personal property in the county out of which the taxes could be made, a
judgment was rendered against the land by the Circuit Court,
under the statute of Illinois, and an order was issued to the
sheriff, directing him to sell the delinquent land to such person
as should pay the tax for the smallest quantity of the tract.
And the defendant offered to read a deed from the sheriff on
said tax sale to Charles Ballance, covering a part of lot No. 65,
which was objected to by the plaintiffs, and the court sustained
the objection, on the ground that the sale was contrary to law,
to which decision the defendant excepted.
As there appears to have been no specific exception taken,
and as we have not the opinion of the court, except that the
evidence was defective, and could not sustain the tax-title, we
are' left to conjecture as to the particular ground of the decision.
One acre of land was sold by the sheriff, "off of the east side
of the south-west and south-east fractional quarters of section
number nine," &c. In these two fractional quarters there appear to have been about one hundred and fifty acres. It is not
said in what form the acre was to be surveyed. Certainty, in
such a case, is necessary to mak, the sale valid, for on the form
of the acre its value may chiefly depend. And there is nothing
on the face of the deed or in the proceeding previous to the sale
which supplies this defect.
It is singular that the land should. be sold in the name of
Ballance, and that he slould become the purchaser; especially
as he appears to have been in possession of the land as owner.

SUPREME COURT.
Ballance v.

-

Forsyth et al.

Although the right of Bourbonne to lot 65 was recognized by
the government, by the act of Congress of 123, yet, until the
public surveyor marked the lines, its position and extent could not
be ascertained. And it appears that this duty was neglected by
the public surveyor for many years. The patent was not issued
until in 1845, two years aftei the tax was dssessed. And it is
not perceived how the specific lot could be taxed when its boundaries were not known. It seems to have been included in the
south-east fractional quarter section, but it was not taxable as
a part of that tract. Both the entry and the patent of Bogardus for the fractional quarter section contained an exception of
the rights of a persons claiming under the act of Congress of
the 3d of March, 1823. So that the whole or any part of the
lots claimed by the plaintiffs, which may have been included in
either of the fractional quarter sections, both having the same
exception, the claim to such lots was not affected by the patent.
And, consequently, neither of the lots were liable to be sold for
the taxes on the tracts which.included them.
The court will not, unless fraud be shown, look behind the
patents for the lots in controversy. That the patents cover the
lots, as surveyed, seems not to be disputed. We cannot, therefore, in an action at law, inquire whether the lots, as originally
claimed, are accurately described in the patents. The survey
having been made by a public officer and 'sanctioned by the
government, the legal title must be held to be in the patentee.
If the patent to Bogardus be of prior date, the reservati6n in
the patent, and also in his entry was sufficient notice, that the
title to those lots did not pass. And this exception is sufficiently
shown by the acts of the government.
These lots were surveyed before the taxes were assessed for
1843 ; but the assessments were nade on the fractional quarter
section, without regard to the lbts reserved. Such lots were
neither assessed nor sold for the taxes due oa them, and they,
were not liable for the taxes due on the quarter section.
That Ballance, being liable for the tax, should permit his
own land to be sold, and purchase one of the lots, or a part
of it, to pay the taxes on the larger tract would seem to require
explanation. Had a stranger purchased at this sale a part of
the quarter sections, from the irregularity of the procedure, it is
not perceived how the tax-title could have been sustained. But,
however this-may be, we are clear that the sale of lot sixty-five,
or a part of it, under the circumstances, is void, and, consequently, that the sheriff's deed on such sale was pioperly rejected. As the whole law of the case seemed to have been submitled to the court, the deed, if admitted as primd facie evidence,
could not have changed the result.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Doe v. Beebe et al.

The statute did not protect the possession of the defendant
below. His patent excepted these lots; of course he had no title
under it, for the lots excepted.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of 'the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Illinois, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,, that
the judgment of the said Circuit COdrt in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

JOHN DOE, Ex. DE,%. HALLETT & WALKER, EXEJUTORS OF
JOSHUA KENNEbY, DECEASED, PLAiNTIFFS IN ERROR, V. ALFRED
R. BEEBE, GEORGE W. HILLIARD, ALEXANDER M. CARR,
CHARLES T. KETCHU',% AND JOHN HORSFELDT.
The principles established in the cases of 3 How. 212, and 9 How. 477, again affirmed,
viz., that after the admission of Alabama into the Unign as a State, Congress could
make no grant of land situated between high and low water marks.

THis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Alabarna by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The plaintiff in error brought an ejectment irr the Circuit
Court of Mobile county, under the circumstances stated in the
opinion of the court. The judgment of that court was against
them, and they then appealed to the Supreme Court of Alabama,
where the judgment was affirmed. They then brought the case
up to this court.
It Was argued-by 01r. Canpbell, for the plaintit

in error.

Al. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment; and the plaintiffs iii error
claim title to the premises under a contract of sale made by
Morales, the Spanishi Intendant at Pensacola, with a certain
William McVoy, for twenty arpents of land on the west side of
the River Mobile, bounding on the river; which contract was
afterwards confirmed by an act of Congress..
The contract with McVoy was made in 1806. He subsequently
assigned his interest to William J. -Kenndy and .Joshua Ken-VOL. XIII.

3

