11

DECEMBER TERM., 1851.
Crawford v. Points.
APPELLANT, V. JAMES POINTS,
CRAWFORD,
ALEXANDER
SIGNEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF HENRY HOTTLE.

AS-

An appeal does not lie to this court, from the decision of a District Court in a case
of bankruptcy.

Even if it would, the decree of the District Court in this case is not a final decree.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Virginia.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court so
far as they bear upon the question of jurisdiction; and it is unnecessary to state the other facts.
It was argued in this court by Mr. Fultz for the appellant,
and by ir. Stuart for the appellee.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case may be disposed of in a few words.
James Points, the appellee, was appointed assignee of Henry
Hottle who had been declared a bankrupt, by the District Court
of the United States for the Western District of Virginia. And,
upon the petition of the assignee and the hearing of the parties
concerned, certain settlements and transfers of property made
between the bankrupt and the appellant, were declared to be
fraudulent, and set aside by the court. From this decree Crawford appealed to this court.
It is very clear that the appeal cannot be sustained. - The
appellant endeavors to support it, upon the ground that there is
no act of Congress now in force establishing a Circuit Court
for the Western District of Virginia. But, assuming this to be
the case, it does not follow that an appeal to this court can be
taken from the decree of the District Court. For we can exercise' no appellate power, unless it is conferred by law; and there
is no act of Congress authorizing an appeal to this court from
the decision of a District Court in a case of bankruptcy. It
was so held in Nelson v. Carland, 1 How. 265, and in the case
.Ex parte Christy, 3 How. 314, 315.
Indeed, if an appeal would lie from a final decree of the District Court, this appeal cannot be maintained. For the decree'
is not final. An account is directed to be taken of the rents
and profits of certain lands, with an option to the appellant to
purchase, them at a price named in the decree; and in that
event he is to be discharged from the acc6unt for rents and profits. And, moreover, he is permitted to retain 'possession of certain slaves, until it should be ascertained whether the otheri
assets of the bankrupt's estate would not be sufficierit to pay

12

SUPREME COURT.
D'afrington et al. v. The Bank of Alabama.

,his debts; and an order to account for their hire and the profits
of their labor is suspended in the mean time. While these
things remain to be done, the decree is not final, and no appeal
from it would lie to this court, even if it had been the decree
of a Circuit Court exercising its ordinary equity jurisdiction.
Upon either ground, therefore, this .appeal cannot be maintained, and is, therefore, dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Western District of Virginia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby
dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

JOHN DARRINGTON, LORENZO JAMES, AND ROBERT D. JAMES,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE BRANCH OF THE BANK OF THE
STATE OF ALABAMA.
JOHN .DARRINGTON AND LORENZO
JAMES, V. SAME.
The bills of a banking corporation, which has corporate property, are not bills of
credit within the meaning of the Constitution, although the State which created the
bank is the only stockholder, and pledges its faith for the ultimate redemption of
the bills.
THESE: cases were brought up from the Supreme Court of
Alabama, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act. The facts and pleadings are stated in the
opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Campbell for the plaintiffs in error, and
and lr. Hopkins for the defendants.
Mr. Campbell contended that the transactions as described by
the pleas, fell within the prohibitory clause of the Constitution'
of the United States, "that no State Shall issue a bill of credit,"
and cited 4 Peters, 410; 11 Peters, 313'; 7 Alab. Rep. 18.
111r. Hopkins for the defendants iti error.
In the case of Briscoe v. The Bank of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, 11 Peters, 257, this court decided that the notes issued
by such a bank as the- one which is the defendant in error, were
not bills of credit within the prohibition of the Constitution of
the United States. In the case of Owen v. The Branch Bank

