26

SUPREME COURT.
McCormick v. Gray et al.

nedy, and the laater became the sole owner by an assignment
from the former. An act of Congress was passed in 1832, confirming the title of Joshua Kennedy upon two conditions: 1st.
That the confirmation should amount to nothing more than the
relinquishment of the right of the United States at that time in
the land; and, 2dly, That the lands before that time sold by the
United States, should not be comprehended within the act of
confirmation. And in 1837, a patent was issued to Joshua Kennedy, reciting in full this act of Congress under which it was
granted.
It is admitted in the record, that the land in question was below high-water mark when the United St.tes .sold the land on
which Fort Charlotte stood, in the town of Mobile. These
lands were divided into lots and sold in 1820 and 1821, and patents
were issued to the purchasers in the year last mentioned. The
defendants made title to three of these lots, which bounded on
the river, and it was admitted that at the time of the sale high
water extended over their eastern limits; and that the land now
in controversy was reclaimed from the water and filled up by
those under whom the defendants claimed.
The question, therefore, to be decided in this case is, whether
the title obtained under MeVof's contract, confirmed by the act
of Congress in 1832; or the title ottained under the sale of the
lots in 1820 and 1821, is the superior and better title.
The principles of law on which this question depends, have
already been decided in this court in Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How.
212, and in Goodtitle v. Kibbe, 9 How. 477, 478. And, according to the decisions in these two cases, the title under the sale
of the lots is the superior one.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama
must, therefore, be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record,
from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of the
said. Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs.
CYRUs H. McCoRmICx, APPELLANT, CHARLES
WILLIAI B. OGDEN.

Al.

GRAY, AND

Where two partners assigned all their partnership property to a trustee with certain
instrgctions how to dispose of it, and afterwards agreed between thembelves to

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

27

McCormick v. Gray et al.
appoint an arbitrator, recogbizing in their bonds the directions given to the trustee,
the arbitrator had no right to deviate from these directions, and make other disposition of the property.
The reason given by the arbitrator, that he preferred creditors before awa~ding a certain sum to one of the partners, is insufficient.
Nor had the arbitrator a right to depart, in any particular, from the arrangement of
the property which the partners had designated in their deed to the trustee.

I HIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Illinois.
McCormick was the inventor of _"IcCormick's patent Virginia Reaper," and being desirous of manufacturing, the same
for sale in the States of Illinois and Wisconsin, entered into
partnership with Gray. The'articles were very specific, but too
long to be inserted here. The object was to manufacture five
-hundred reapers for the harvest of 1848, and the partnership was
formed on the 30th of August, 1847. Three lots of ground
were purchased in Kenzie's addition to Chicago, and the manufacture was commenced.
Some disagreement afterward occurred, and . both parties
united in transferring all the assets of the firm to William B.
Ogden, and a settlement was to be made according to the award
of Judge H. T. Dickey. The principal parts of the assignment
to Ogden, are recited in the opinion of the court, and need not
be repeated.
Afterwards, on the 20th of December, 1848; they formally
agreed to the reference to Judge Dickey, and exchanged arbitration bonds. By these bonds it was made an express condition of the reference that the award to be made by the arbitrator
should "not in any way alter or affect the demands of property
and assets in the hands of William B. Ogden, as the trustee of
said parties, or the agreements between said parties relative to
the collection and disposition of said denards, assets, and property, but the same 9hall remain under the provisions of said'
contract." The time for iaking the award, as 6riginally limited, was afterwards extended to sixty days from the 20th of
January, 1849.
The. referee, on the 20th of March, 1849, made his award,
which was as follows:
" Award between Cyras H. 1lc Cormick and Charles I1- Gray.
It having been submitt ed to me, by Cyrus H. MlcCormick
and Charles M. Gray, by articles of agreement and submission
dated the twentieth day of December, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and forty-eight, and a supplement
thereto dated 19th (nineteenth) January, one thousand eight
hundred and forty-nine, to arbitrate and determine certain differences and disputes between them growing out of the partnership

SUPREME COURT.

28

McCormick v. Gray et al.

affairs, business, and dealings of the late firm of McCormick &
Gray, submitting all their said partnership differences and all
other differences to me as such arbitrator: And the said parties
having appeared before me as such arbitrator on the fourteenth
day of Janikary last, and for several days thereafter, together
with their respective counsel, and witnesses, vouchers and proofs
having been then sworn, exhibited, produced, and examined, and
the said differences and disputes having been finally submitted
to me on the nineteenth day of January last, and it appearing
to me that such differences and disputes so existing grew out
of the partnership business and dealing of the said late firm of
McCormick & Gray, and in the accounts of the said respective
parties, and in the claims on their respective parts, one against
the other, for alleged breaches of the copartnership articles, and
in the final settlement and adjustment of El their copartnership
business, dealings, and accounts, and all of the same having been
by me fully examined and considered, I do find and award as
follows, to wit:
I do find that the assets and liabilities of said late firm on
the fourteenth day of January last, were as they are stated to
be in an account of assets and liabilities hereto annexed, and
marked A, that is to say:
Real estate constituting assets of said firm, amount$9,406
ing to
Machinery amounting to
3,637
Bills receivable, &c., for reapers,
36,853
$623 14
Iron on hand,
238 sickles, $3,50,
.
.
833 00
1,660 00
13 reapers, $120,
.
3,021 14
$52,917 52
.

Liabilities.
Debt to
Debt to
Debt to
Debt to
Debt to
Debt to
Debt-to
Debt to
Debt to

Fitch, Barry, & Co.,
Seym6ur & Morgan,
Seymour & Morgan,
0. Orcutt,
M. & M. Stone,
H. Rowell,
George M. Gray,
Charles M. Gray,
C. H. McCormick,

Profit and loss.

$1,802 82

S
*

*

•
•
.

*
*
*
*

•
S12,050

1,750 60
1,635 29

300

105
204
73
4,051

00
08
75
88
67
$21,710 09
31,207 43
$52,917 52

DE-CEMBER TERM, 1851.

29

McCormick v. Gray et al.

And I do, therefore, award as follows:
1st. I award out of the money and assets of said firm, whether in the hands of either of said copartners or of their agents,
there in the first place be paid the following of said debts and
liabilities of said firm, pro ratd, until the same shall be fully
paid, viz., the above-mentioned debts and liabilities, principal
and interest, to the time'of payment due to Fitch, Barry & Co.,
Seymour & Morgan, (both claims,) 0. Orcutt, M. & M. Stone,
H. Rowell, and George A. Gray, and all other outstanding
debts, if there should be any found to be omitted in the above
account due or coming due by said firm to third persons.
2d. I award that in the next place there be paid to Cyrus H.
McCormick, one of said copartners, out of money and assets,
the s'm of fourteen thousand six hundred ard ten dollars,
($14,610,) for his patent fees, as stipulated by the articles of
copartnership, for reapers sold by said firm.
3d. I award that in the third place there be paid out of the
assets of the said firm, and in the manner hereinafter stated to
each of said copartners, viz., to the said Charles Al. Gray, and
to the said Cyrus H. McCormick, the amount due by said late
firm to each of"said coparthers as stated above, and iftthe annexed account marked A, viz., to the said Charles M. Gray, the
sum of four thousand and fifty-one dollars and eighty-eight
cents, (4,051.88,) and to the said Cyrus H. McCormick, the sum
of twelve thousand and fifty dollars and sixty-seven cents,
(12,050.67,) the said two last mentioned sums to be paid to
each of said copartners in the manner specified hereinafter fifthly; and the balance coming to said McCormick over and above
his half of his real estate and machinery mentioned hereinafter
to be paid Io him in money.
4th. I award that out of the balance of the money and assets
of said firm, as profits, after paying the items above mentioned,
there be paid to the firm of Ogden and Jones, of Chicago, on
account of the sale made to them by the said Charles M. Gray,
by deed dated the fifteenth day of January, one thoiisand eight
hundred and forty-eight, one fourth part, to Cyrus -H.McCormick, one of the said copartners, one fourth part, and to Chdrles
M. Gray, the other of the *aid copartners, the remaining two
fburth parts; the said parts to be paid to each of the said parties, pro ratd, as the moneys and assets are received and collected.
5th. I do award that the real estate and machinery and their
appurtenances, and the tools of the said late firm of McCormik
& Gray, amounting together, according to the above statement,
to thirteen thousand and forty-three dollars and twenty-three
3.

30

SUPREME COURT.
McCormick v. Gray et

il.

cents, (13,043.23,) that is to say, the real estate to nine thousand four hundred and six dollars-and six cents, ($9,406.06,)
and the machinery, &c., to three thousand six hundred and
thirty-seven dollars and seventeen cents, (3,637.17,) be taken,
one half part. thereof by each of the said copartners, viz., the
said McCormick and the said Gray, at the above-mentioned
rate, that is to say, six thousand five hundred and twenty-one
dollars and sixty-one and a half cents ($6,521.612,) each, and that
such appropriation by each of said copartners of one half of the
said real estate and machinery at the sum of six thousand five
hundred and twenty-one dollars and sixty-one and a half cents,
(6,521.61-,) each, be applied towards the payment of the respective balance due to 6ach of them by the said firm, that is to
say, of the balance of twelve thousand and fifty dollars and
sixty-seven cents due to the said McCormick, and the balance
of four thousand and fifty-one dollars and eighly-eight cents,
(4,051.88,) due the said Charles Al. Gray, and that the balance
of the said Charles M. Gray's half of said real estate and machinery, over and above the payment of the sdd -sum of $4,051.38,
be applied-in part payment of the two fourth parts of the
profits of said firm, coming to him as awarded fourthly above.
6th. I do award that the thirteen reapers belonging to said
firm, on hand and unsold, be sold with all convenient despatch,
and at the best price that can be had for the same, and that out
of the proceeds thereof, there be paid to Cyrus H. McCormick
the sum of thirty dollars for each of said reapers so to be sold,
as a patent fee; but if the said reapers shall sell for a less
amount than one hundred and twenty dollars a piece, then the
patent fee aforesaid shall be apportioned to the amount of the
sale of each reaper in the same proportion as thirty dollars is to
one hundred and twenty dollars, and the said,. patent fee to be
paid as aforesaid upon the salr of the said thirteen reapers shall
be deducted from the profits to be divided as above fourthly
stated.
7th. I do award that the bills, receivable accounts, and
debts due the said firm, not already collected, whether in the
hands of, either of said copartners or their agent or agents, be
collected and caused to be collected in money by the said copartners, axn-.each of them, with all reasonable diligence and
despatch; arid that the iron and sickles on hand mentioned in said
account, and all other assets of the said firm, (excepting the real
estate and machineryand tools above stated,) not already sold,
be sold and converted into money wifli all convenient and reasonable diligence, and at the best price that can be probured for
the same, and the proceeds of all of the above applied in pursuance of the direction and provisions of this atvard.

DECEMBER

TERMN,

1851.

31

McCormick v. Gray et al.

8th. I do award that all moneys, notes, and other property
and assets of said late firm, in the hands or possession of or under the control of either of said copartners, shall be forthwith
applied by them, and each of them, according to the terms and
provisions of this award.
9th. In case any part of the debts mentioned in the first
above-mentioned item, or of the patent fees menti6ned in the
second above-mentioned item, shall have been paid since the
hearing of the arbitration aforesaid, the amount of such payment shall be deducted from the amounts directed thereby to
be paid.
10th. I do award that all necessary costs and expenses
which may be expended or incurred in the sale of any of the
copartnership property, and in the collection of the bills receivable and debts due the said firm, shall be paid out of the balance
of the partnership moneys and assets fourthly above mentioned,
before the whole of such balance shall be finally divided as men.tioned in said above-mentioned fourth item.
11th. This award shall be a final settlement of the accounts
of the late partnership firm of IcCormick & Gray, and of
the manner in which the assets of said firm are to be paid,
appropriated, and applied, and embracing as well the settlement
of the accounts of the respective partners, as an adjustment of
their respective claims one against the other, growing out of
their said partnership dealings, and of all differences and matters
of difference between the said Cyrus H. McCormick and Charles
Mi Gray, which have been submitted by the arbitration.
All of which is signed by me in duplicate, as my award in
the premises, this twentieth day of Mlarch, one thousand eight
hundred and forty-nine.
HUGH T. DIoKxEY."

In June, 1&19, McCormick filed his bill in the Circuit .Court
of the United States, for the District of Illinois, against Gray
and Ogden for an account, &c., upon the ground that the award
was null and void for the following reasons:
"First. The said award is not within the terms or spirit of the
said submission; and the said arbitrator exceeded the power and
jurisdiction conferred upon him by the said parties', in this, to wit:
1st. That in and by the said assignment from the said McCormick and Gray to said trustee, William B. Ogden, it is expressly declared in the first section thereof, that said Ogden shall
proceed to collect said assets as speedily as may be, and after
first pAying all expenses, costs, and commissions attending the
collection and disbursement of the same, shall pay over to said
McCormick the sum of $14,610, on account of patent fees due'

SUPREME COURT.
McCormick v. Gray et al.

him for the manufacture of said Virginia Reaper as aforesaid;
whereas the said arbitrator, wholly disregarding the said assignment and the said proviso of said arbitration-bond hereinbefore
mentioned and set forth, in and by- his said award, awarded
and directed in the seventh section thereof, (amongst other
things,) that the bills receivable, accounts, and debits due the
said firm, not (then) already collected, whether in the hands of
either of said copartners, or of their agent or agents, be. collected
or caused to be collected in money by the said copartners,
and each of them; and in and by the said first section of
said award, the said arbitrator awarded (amongst other things)
that out of the money and assets, of said firm, whether in
the hands of either of'the said copartners or of their agents,
there in the first place be paid certain debts and liabilities
of said firm, mentioned and specified in said section, pro ratd;
and the said section of the said award directed and awarded,
in substance, that in the next place there be paid to your orator
out of the funds of said copartnership the sum of $14,610 for his
said patent fees. Thus attempting to subvert and annul the
said assignment so made to said Ogden, by directing the said
parties to collect the said debts and assets so assigned to him,
instead of said Ogden, and in utter disregard of his rights and
duties as trustee, and to disburse and distribute the funds of said
partnership in a different manner from thai; provided in and by
the trusts of said assignment, and postponing the payment of
the said sum of $14,610 so due to your orator for patent fees,
until after the payment of said debts mentioned in said first section of said award, contrary to the tenor and effect, true intent, and
meaning of the said assignment, and of the said arbitration-bond.
I 2d. The said assignment provides, in the second section thereof, that said Ogden shall pay all legal liabilitities and debts
of the said McCormick and Gray as they shall become due;
whereas the said award in the first section thereof awards and
directs, in substance, that certain debts in said last-mentioned section specified, shall be paid pro ratd until the same shall be paid.
3d. The said assignment in the third section thereof (amongst
other things,) provides, in substance, that the balance of said assets, as fast as collected, shall be paid in pro ratd sums as follows; to said McCormick one half of all moneys collected, to
Ogden and Jones one- fourth, and the remaining fourth to said
Gray; provided, however, and it is in said third section agreed
and understood, that the respective sums therein provided to be
paid to said McCormick and Gray, respectively, shall be retained by said Ogden' to await the award of said Dickey, and shall
in no case be paid over to either of said parties, until said award
shall be made; and when said award shall be made, hi case it

DECEMBER-TERM,

1851.

33

McCormick v. Gray et al.

should be made against either party, the amount of such award
shall be taken out of the moneys going to the party against
whom the said award shall be made, and paid over to the"
party in whose favor the said award shall be made; and when
said award shall have been paid, the balance of said moneys
going to said McCormick and Gray, if any there shall be,
shall be paid over to them, respectively, .inthe proportion in
said assignment provided; whereas, in and by the fourth section
of the said award, it is awarded and directed, that of the balance
of the money and assets of said frm, as profits, after paying the
items therein mentioned, there be paid to said Ogden and Jones
one fourth part, to said McCormick one fourth, and to said Gray.
the remaining two fourths; and no sum certain is awarded to
either party within the intent and meaning of the said assignment and subnission, but the assets of the said firm are directed
to be distributed and divided as last aforesaid.
4th. That the said arbitrator has exceeded his powers in other
respects, and the said award is uncertain, unjust, illegal, and
tends to the manifest injury, wrong, and, oppression of your orator; and your orator humbly insists and' submits that the said
award ought to be annulled and wholly set aside, and the said
Gray ought to be enjoined and restrained from commencing
any suit or other proceeding to enforce the collection thereof, or
from interfering with said assignment aforesaid, or intermeddling
with the property and assets in said assignment mentioned; and
that the said Gray ought to come and accouiit with your orator
of and concerning the said partnership dealings and transactions
from the commencement thereof; and that the said pretended
award, so made as aforesaid, is no bar to such account."
The defendants appeared, and demurred to the bill; and the
Circuit Court, then holden by the district judge, sustained the
demurrer and dismissed the bill.
The complainant appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mflr. Johnson, for the appellantsand submitted, on a printed argument, by .91r. Butterfield, for the appellee.

.31r.Johnson, for the appellant, made the following points 1. That the averments in the bill gave the court jurisdiction
over the parties and the subject.
2. That the award, being beyond and against the terms of
the submission, was void. Archer v. Williamson, 2 Harris &
Gill, 68; Adams v. Adams, 8 N. Hamp. 82; Carnochan v.
Christie, 11 Wheat. 446; Lyle v. Rodgers, 5 Wheat. 394.
3. The award being out of the way, the bill presents a fami
liar case for discovery and relief, being by one partner against

SUPREME COURT.
McCormick'v. Gray et al.

another for an account and settlement of partnership transactions; an averment, of itself, vesting the court with jurisdiction,
and entitling the complainant to relief. 1 Story's Eq. sect. 450,
672, 683; Scott v. Pinkerton, 3 Edw. Ch. Rep. 70.
.Mr. Butterfield, for the appellee, male the following .points:1. The first point made by the respondent upon this appeal
is, that there is nothing in the case to show that the matter in
controversy, or the difference between what the appellant is entitled to under the award and what he would be entited to if
the award should be set aside and a new account should be taken,
is sufficient in amount to sustain the jurisdction of the court.
2. The complainant, by applying to the court below, and obtaining leave to amend his bill after the allowance of the dem-urrer, waived the right to appeal from the decision of the
court, allowing the demurrer; and no appeal lies to this court
from a decision of the court below, refusing to amend. The
dismissal of the suit was a necessary consequence of the neglect
of the complainant to amend within the sixty days allowed to
him by the court, and no appeal lies from that decision. Wright
et al. v. Lessee of Hollingsworth, 1 Pet. 165; Matheson's Administrator v. Grant's Administrator, 2 How. 263; Read v. Hodgens, 2 Mol. Rep. 381.
3. The award, of the arbitrator was no-, an excess of power
in any respect, and was not inconsistent with the spirit of the
assignment of the debts of the firm to William B. Ogden, as
trustee.
4. The courts, in support of the validity of an award, will make
every reasonable presumption in favor of its being certain and
final, as a determination of all the matters in dispute; especially
when, as in this case, the award states that the arbitrator has
examined and considered all the matters in difference between
the parties, and that the award is intended to be a final settlement of all such matters as were submitted to the arbitrator.
Wood v. Griffith, 1 Swanst. Rep. 43; Doe ex dent. Aladkins v.
Homer, 8 Adol. & Ellis, 235; Smith v. Demarest, 3 Halst.
Rep. 195; .9 Adol. & Ellis, 522; 3 Greerl. Rep. 421; 6 New
Hamp. Rep. 264; 1 Leigh, 491; 9 Wend. 649; 2 Johns. Ch.
Rep. 551; 2 Bay, Rep. 370; 2 New Hamp. Rep. 179; 1 Dall.
174, 188.
*5. An eward' cannot be set aside, either at law or in equity,
except for'errors apparent on its face, misconduct in the arbitration, or for some palpable mistake, or on account of the fraud
of one of the parties. And nothing deho;s the award can be
pleaded or given in evidence, to show that it is unreasonable or
unjust. Hunch v. Blair, 1 Johns. Ch. Rep. 101; Shepherd v. Mer-

DECEMBER TERM1, 1851.

85

McCormick v. Gray et al.

rill, 2 Id. 276 ; Todd v. Barlow, Id. 551 ; Heard v. Muir, 3 Rand.
Rep. 121, 128; Shermer v. Beale, 1 Wash. Rep. 11; °Plesants
v. Ross, 1 Id. 157; Administrator of Schenck v. Cuttrell, 1
Green's Oh. Rep. 297; Strodes v. Patton, 1 Brock. Rep. 228.
The bill in this case, which seeks to raise a question as to
the decision of the arbitrator, that the complainant should,
out of his share of the profits of the partnership, pay the defendant an amount equal to the one half of the defendant's
share thereof, transferred to Ogden and Jones, by reason of the
neglect of the complainant to supply his portion of the capital
of the firm, pursuant to his agreement, cannot be sustained; for
the award estops the complainant from alleging any thing contrary to it. Garr v. Gomez, 9 Wend. 649.
6. If a part of the award is invalid, as 1eing contrary to the
provisions of the assignment, that does not render the whole
award void, but only so much thereof as is inconsistent with the
provisions of the assignment, will be rejected, leaving the residue of the award in full force. Taylor's Administrator v. Nicolson, I Hen. & MNunf. 67; McBride v. Hagan, 1 Wend. Rep.
326; Bacon v. Wilber, 1 Cow. 117; Martin v. Williams, 13
Johns. 264; Cox v. Jagger. 2 Cow. 649; Gordon v. Tucker, 6
Greenl. 247; Lyle v. Rodgers, 5 Wheat. 394.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill for an account of certain partnership transactions betwen McCormick and Gray, and to set aside an award by
which that account has been stated. The bill was demurred to,
and, by a decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Illinois, it was dismissed, and the complainant
appealed.
The demurrer raises the question, whether the award is valid?
The objection to the award is, that it is not pursuant to the
submission. To decide this question, it is necessary to examine
the terms of the'submission and the award. The submission is
contained in arbitration-bonds, mutually executed by the parties, bearing date on the 20th day of December, 1848, submitting, generally, all their partnership and other differences with
this limitation: "Provided, that the award so to be made by
said arbitrator shall not in any way alter or affect the demands
of property and assets in the hands of William B. Ogden, as
the trustee of said parties, or the agreements between said parties, relatfv6 to the collection and disposition of said demands,
assets, and property; but the same shall remain under the provisions of said contract."
This clause in the submission refers to an assignment of the
principal part of the choses in action bf the partnership, in trust

36

SUPREME

COURT.

McCormick v. Gray et al.

to collect them, made by the partners before the execution of
the submission-bonds, which assignment zecites the fact of the
submission, and contains agreements as. to marshalling this part
of the partnership assets. Amongst other trusts declared in this
assignment are the following: -

"1st. Said Ogden shall proceed to collect said. assets as
speedily as may be, and, after first paying all expenses, costs,
and commissions attending the collection and disbursement of
the same, he shall pay over to said McCormick the sum of
$14,610, on accouit of patent fees due him for the manufacture
of said Virginia Reapers, as aforesaid.
,' 2d. To pay all legal liabilities and debts of said McCormick
,and Gray as they shall become diue.
" 3d. The balance of said assets, as fast as collected, shall be
paid in pro rata sums, as follows, - to said McCormick, one half
of all moneys collected; to Ogden and Jones, one fourth part of
said moneys, being the amount heretofore sold and assigned by
said Gray to them; and the remainiYg one fourth part to said
Charles M. Gray. Provided, however, and it is hereby expressly
understood and agreed between the said McCormick and Gray,
that the respective sums herein provided by this clause, to be
paid to said McCormick and Gray, respectively, shall be retained
by the said Ogden, to await the award of Judge Dickey, in the
subnrission 'above referred to, and shall in no case be paid over
by him to either of said parties until said award shall be made;
and when said award shall be made, in case it shall be made
against either party, the amount of such award shall be taken
but of the moneys going to the party against whom said award
shall be made, and paid over to the amount thereof, to the party
in whose favor said award shall be made; 4nd when said award
shall have been paid, the balance of said moneys going to said
McCormick and Gray, if any there shall be, shall be paid over to
them, respectively, in the proportion hereinbefore provided for.
Provided;further, that, if said Gray shall not pay to said IcCormick, within thirty days from the date hereof, the sum of
$2,500, on account 'of the indebtedness of Gray and Warner to
said McCormick, then the said Ogden shall retain and pay
over to said McCormick, out of the rest of'the moneys to be
paid to said Gray, as aforesaid, after first paying any award
which said judge may make in the submission above mentioned,
against said Gray, the aforesaid sum of $.,500, on account of
the said indebtedness of said Gray and Warner, aforesaid, toge.
ther with ten per cent. damage thereon, as. a penalty for any delinquency on the part of said Gray, to pay said sum of $2,500
within the time above limited, every thing hereinbefore contained to the contrary notwithstanding; and "the said Gray agrees

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

87

McCormick v. Gray et al.

to furnish the said McCormick, within the thirty days aforesaid,
a full; true, and correct account or statement of the -indebtedness of said Gray and Warner to said McCormick; and any excess over and above the said sum of $2,600, which said account
or statement shall show to be due o said McCormick, shall also
be paid to him by said Gray, within the thirty days above limited, or, in default thereof, the said Ogden shall pay the same
out of the same funds, in the same Manner and with the like
penalty that the said sum of $2,500 is hereinbefore provided to
be paid."
These stipulations, by which this part of the partnership assets is disposed of, are, in legal effect, incorporated into the
submission, and limit the authority of the arbitrator. He could
do nothing to alter or affect them. But, instead of observing
thbis limitation, his award treats the entire property of' the partnership, and the respective rights of the partners, as if no such
agreements had been made.
He postpones the payment of the fourteen thousand six hundred and ten dollars to McCormick- for his patent fees to the
payment of the debts of the firm, though the agreement of the
parties was, that it should be first paid out of the choses in
action assigned. It is argued, that this was justified by the
prior right of creditors. But, 'as between the partners, they had
a perfect right to control the possession of the partnership funds,
and determine that the whole, or any part,, should go into the
possession of either partner. Both are ultimately liable for the
debts, and whether one or other member of the firm shal have
possession of the funds, either under a claim as a creditor of the
firm, or otherwise, while they act in good faith, is a matter
wholly subject to their control. Indeed it is only through them,'
and by means of their equity to have the partnership property
applied to the payment of the partnership debts, that creditom
have any lien on, or specific rights to, the property of the firm, as
distinguished from the property of its members. Exparte Ruffin, 6 Ves. 119; Ex parte Fell, 10 Yes. 347; Ez parte Williams,
11 Ves. 5.
This partnership was solvent, and the object of the submission was to adjust the relative rights of the partners. The payment of the debts, and a provision for them out of the partnership funds, was probably necessary, in order to make a final
settlement, without recourse over, in consequence of payments
compulsorily made by one partner, which might disturb the
balance between himself and his copartner. But it certainly
was not within the authority of the referee to make this pro"
vision out 8f a fund which the partners had otherwise disposed of by an express agreement, which they made part of
VOL. XII1.

4

SUPREME

COURT.

McCormick v. Gray et al.

the submission, and which constituted a limitation on his
authority.
It is said that, by the terms of the agreement between the parties contained in the assignment, these debts were to be paid as
they should become due, and that to support the award the court
will intend, they were all payable at the 'time it was made.
But if this were intended, the agreement would nevertheless
remain, by force of which McCormick's patent fees were to be
first paid, out of the proceeds of that particular part of the property assigned.
The partners agreed in the assignment, that, after paying
McCormick the sum of $14,610, and discharging the legal liabilities of the firm, the balance of the assets assigned, as fast as
collected, should be paid, one half to McCormick, one fourth to
Gray, and the remaining fourth to certain assignees of Gray,
but that each partner should have a lien on the share of the
other, for any.balance found due to him by the arbitrator: and
that McCormick should have a lien on Gray's share, in the
hands of the assignee, for a specific claim of twenty-five hundred dollars, together with any further amount which might
prove to be due to him according to an acccunt therein agreed
to be rendered.
Upon the face of the award we are unable, by any fair intendment, to reconcile it with these stipulations. The radical
error of the arbitrator seems to have been, that he disregarded
these arrangements of the parties, by which they had finally
bound so much of their assets as -were in the hands of the
assignee. It was his duty to assume that their contract,
in respect to this part of the partnership property, was to be
specifically exequted, and then "proceed to consider the equities
of the parties in consequence of such an appropriation of those
funds, as well as in consequence of the other facts. But each
partner had a right to the specific performance of the trusts declared in the assignment, and the submission gave no power to
the arbitrator to make an award inconsistent with their execution. But this award is so. In one aspect of this bill, it is a
bill for the execution of those trusts, and no reason appears why
they should not be executed, except the award. If the award
js valid, the court below rightly decided that the bill must be
dismissed, for it not only bars the geieral account of the part:
nership transactions, but destroys the particular trusts created by
the assignment in favor of each partner, in respect to the proceeds of the choses in action assigned. Yet it was expressly
agreed that the arbitrator should do nothing which could have
that effect, and so far as the award is relied, on as a defence to
the bill against Gray and Ogden, the trustee, to have these trusts

DECEM1BER TERM, 1851.

89

McCormick v. Gray et al.

performed, it is in direct conflict with the express words of the
submission.
-It is suggested that the award may be held valid in part, and
so far as it does pursue the submission. There are cases in
which, after rejecting part of an award, the residue is sufficiently
final, certain, and in conformity with the submission, to stand;
but it is indispensable that the part thus allowed to stand should
appear to be in no way affected by the departure from the submission. In the present case this does not appear. On the
contrary, the basis of this whole award is erroneous, resting on
the assumption that the disposal of the entire assets of the partnership was the subject of the award, and it is certain the arbitrator could prop'.rlv have made no part of this award, as it
stands, if he had assumed that the trusts declared in the assignment were to be executed.
It is objected that the amount in controversy is not sufficient
to justify an appeal to this court; but this is a suit for an account involving very large sums of money, the complainant
claiming sums greatly exceeding two thousand dollars, by force
of the assignment and otherwise, and the defendant Gray insisting on the award, as a nar to the whole claim. It is no answer
to say that, if this suit should be defeated, the complainant may
have some other title, which will not be worth vo thousand
dollars less than the value of what he now claims. The question is, whether the matter in dispute in this suit is of the value of
two thousand dollars. Besides, this matter is a claim for an account far exceeding that amount, and it does not appear that the
defendant concedes to the complainant his whole claim, except
some sum less than two thousand dollars. There remains,
therefore, a dispute concerning this large claim, not narrowed by
any concession of the defendant; so as to be reduced below the
sum which is required by law for an appeal. It is urged, also,
that the appeal is not well taken, because the complainant obtained leave to amend, after the decree dismissing the bill was
entered. But it appears from the record that this decree to dismiss the bill was regularly stricken out before the leave to amend
was granted, and afterwards, when the complainant elected not
to amend, the bill was ordered to be dismissed by reason of the
demurrer. From this last-mentioned decree the appeal was
taken, and it Was regularly and properly allowed.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case remanded with directions to that court to overrule the 4eraurrer, and order the defendants to answer the bill.

