DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

183

.Coffee v. The Planters Bank of Tennessee.

still have been entitled to judgment non obstante veredicto. But
upon this record there, remains no subject for the application of
the rules of pleading above adver'ed to. The first count in the
declaration having been dismissed or striken out, every thing
which was pertinent strictly to that count, or which constituted
a defence to the case made thereby, falls with the count against
which such defence was interposed. The case then remains
solely on the second count in the declaration, and it cannot be
pretended that to this count, consisting purely of a money claim,
connected with no condition, any pleas have been interposed
upon this record to this count; therefore the case must be considered as one of plain default entirely unanswered by the defendant below, and as having been properly-so treated by the
Circuit Court. The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District'of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel; on
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs and,
damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

THONSAS

J.

COFFEE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
BANK OF TENNESSEE.

v.

THE PLANTERS

By the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act, 1 Stat. at Large, 78, no action can
be brought in the Federal courts upon a promissory note or other chose in action,
by an assignee, unless the action could have been maintained, if there had bden no
assignment. But an indorsee may sue his own immediate indorser.
Hence, where an action was brought by an indorsee upon checks which bad been in.
dorsed from one person to another in the same State, and some of the counts of the
declaration traced the title through these indorsements, no recovery could have
been had upon those counts.
But the declaration also contained the common money counts; and, upon the trial1
these were the only counts which remained, all the rest having been stricken out.
Tie suit against the maker, and also against all the indorsers, except one, had been
discontinued.
The statute of the State where the trial took place authorized a sut upon such an instrument as if it were a joint and several contract.
The dismissal of the suit against all the indorsers except one, and the striking out of
all the counts against him except the common money counts, freed the judgment
aainst him from all objection; and, therefore, when brought up for review upon a
writ of error, it must be affirmed.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.

184

SUPREME COURT.
Coffee v. The Planters Bank of Tennessee..

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mlfr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, and MAr.
Badger, for the defendants in error.
S1/r. Coxe. This was an action in the Circuit Court of the
United States by the Planters Bank against Plaintiff in error
and six others, as the drawers and indorsers of several checks,
bills, promissory notes, &c. The plaintiff is averred to be a
corporation, created by the laws of Tennessee, &c.; and each
and every of the defendants is averred to be a citizen of the
State of Mississippi, and these averments were necessary to
give jurisdiction to the court. The declaration contains numerohs special counts, in all of which, however, the ifistrument
which is the subject of it is averred to have been made in the
State of Mississippi, between parties, citizens of that state, and
which, after several indorsements, finally came to the hands of
,plaintiff In no one instance, however, was the defendant the
immediate indorser to plaintiff. It is supposed that in such a
case the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction. Young v. Bryan,.
6 Wheat. 146; Sullivan v. Fulton Steamboat Compauy, 6
Wheat. 450; Mollan v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537; Evans v. Gee,
11 Peters,*80.
The only ground upon which jurisdicfon in this case can be
sustained is supposed to be presented in the last count in
the declaration. This is'the common money count.
This action is, as has been stated, brought'originally against
seven defendants. Every count in the declaration was a joint
contract. Three of the defendants were served with the first
process; five upon the second or alias summons. It does not
appear ever to have been served on the Mississippi and Ala.
bama Railroad Company. Moss, Packett, Coffee, and Sheldon
plead nan assurnpsit jointly; Crozier pleads separately. The
death of Washington and Shelton is suggested, and the suit
abated as regards them. This is the proper course when defendants are jointly responsible, but not when their'liabilities
are several and distinct. The plaintiffs then discontinued the
action as to all the defendants, except Coffee, plaintiff in error,
and forthwith proceeded to have a jury impanelled to try
the issue joined. Verdict and judgment for plaintiffs against
Coffee.
The record then presents this case: All the defendants are
averred to be jointly responsible on a joint contract. Plaintiff
in error, with two of his associates, pleads a joint plea. Upon
this issue is joined. It is insisted that under these circumstances
a discontinuance of the action against one is a discontinuance
as against all.

DECEMBER TERMi 1851.

185

Coffee v. The Planters Bank of Tennessee.

The issue being upon a joint plea, averring that the parties
did not, as is alleged in the declaration, jointly promise, the
verdict and judgment against Coffee singly, as having made a
several promise, is a departure from the issue, and void.
When the narr. consisted of two counts against two individuals, and demurrer because one of the defendants was
not named in the last count, plaintiff cannot enter a nol pros.
on that count, and proceed on the other. So if one pleads infancy, plaintiff cannot enter a noZ. pros. as to him, and proceed against the other. Tidd's Pr. 630. Irr assumpsit or other
action upon contract, plaintiff cannot enter a noL prds:' as to
one, unless it be for some matter operating in his personal discharge, without releasing the otheR. Tidd, 632.
In the case at bar, the declaration avers a joint contract between the plaintiffs and seven defendants. Three of the defendants being served with process, appear and plead jointly that
they did not promise as is alleged against them. The death of
some of the defendants is suggested, and consequently all the
others are to be considered as living. At this stage of the case
the plaintiff discontinued his action against all the defendants
except one, and proceeds to take a verdict and judgment against
him.
It is admitted ,upon authority that if one alone is sued upon
a joint contract, he must avail himself of the non-joinder of his
co-contractor by a plea in abatement. If, however, the plaintiff
in his declaration shows, the contract to-be joint; no plea in
abatement is required, if it also appear that the party who
ought to have been joined is living. 1 Chitty, P1.29; 1 Wins.
Saunders, 291. This doctrine is distinctly laid down in Scott
v. Godwin, 1 Bos. & Pull. 73; .2. Saund. 422, Wins. Note;
United States v. Linn, I How. 104; United States v. Gerault,
11 How. 22.
Such omission, apparent on plaintiffT' pleadings, may either be*
moved in arrest of judgment or in error.

ilr. Bad-er, for defendaiits in error.
It is contended, for the defendants in error, that there is no error
in the judgment. The jurisdiction of the court below is evident
upon the undisputed averments of the declaration. There was nothing irregular; nothing erroneous in permitting
the discontinuance as to the other parties: on the contrary, the
regularity and legality of the proceedihg have been sanctioned
by cases in this court.
In the case of McAfee v. Doremus, 5 How. R. 53, Mckfee
had been sued in the Circuit Court of Mlississippi as indorser of a
bill of exchange, jointly, with four persons- as the drawers of the.
16*

SUPREME

COURT.

Coffee v. The Planters Bank of Tennessee.

bill. McAfee appeared, and pleaded severally the general issue,
and three of the. four drawers having beea served With process,
the action was d continued as to the four, carried on against
McAfee alone, and upon a judgment rendered against him, a
writ of error was brought in this court. Here the judgment was
unanimously affirmed, the court saying that there was "no objection, in principle or in practice, to the discontinuance of the
writ against the drawers of the bill."
In the Bank of the United States v. Moss, 6 How. 32, there
was, on appearance by all the defendants, a joint plea, and afterwards the action was discontinued as to one of the parties, and
a verdict and judgment taken against the others. To this, there
was no objection taken below or here, and no vrit of error was
brought upon the judgment.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions of law to be decided in this cause, arise upon
the following facts: The defendant in error, (the plaintiff in the
court below,) described in the pleadings to be a corporation created by the laws of the State of Tennessee, the *stockholders of
which are citizens of Tennessee, declared in assdmpsit, in the
court below against the Mississippi an:1 Alabama Railroad
Company, averred to be a corporation created by the laws of
Mississippi, and also -against William . -Shelton, -Robert G.
Crozier, Henry K. Moss, Samuel M. Puc:ett, Thomas G. Coffee, (the plaintiff in'error,) and William H. Washington, averring the said individuals to be all citizens of the State of Mississippi. The declaration contained twenty-four counts; twentythree of which set out respectively checks drawn by the Mississippi and Alabama Railroad Company, for different sums of
money, payable to some of the individual defendants in the court
below, and indorsed by the payee and successively by the other
defendants, so as at last to become payable to the plaintiff below,
the defendant in error as the last indorsee.
The last or twenty-fourth count in the declaration, was upon
an indebitatus assumpsit, for one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars, for money lent and advanced, for the like sum for money
laid out and expended, and for the like sum for money had and
received, laying the damages at three hundred thousand dollars.
The defendants below, Moss, Puckett, Shelton, and Coffee the
plaintiff in error, appeared to the suit and pleaded jointly the
general issue. Crozier also appeared and pleaded ion assumopsit.
The Mississippi and Alabama Railroad Company did not appear. Afterwards, upon a suggestion of the death of Washington and Shelton, the suit was abated as to these parties, and
upon the motion of the plaintiff below, the defendant in error,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

187

Coffee v. The Planters Bank of Tennessee.

the suit was ordered to be discontinued as to all the defendants
below except the plaintiff in error; and a jury being impanelled
upon the issue joined as to him, found a verdict against him in
damages for the sum of $149,924.97 for which sum together
with costs of suit, a judgment was entered by the Circuit
Court. No exception appears to have been taken to the forms
of proceeding, nor to any ruling by the court upon the trial, and
the questions for consideration here are raised upon facts as
above set forth.
On behalf of the plaintiff in error it is insisted, that upon none
of the twenty-three counts, each of which sets forth a deduction
of title by intermediate indorsements from the payees, can this
action be maintained, because it appears, on the face of those
counts, that the drafts or checks constituting the claim were
drawn by a corporation situated within the State of Mississippi,
and the members of which corporation were citizens and inhabitants of that State, in favor of payees who being also citizens
of that State, could not sue upon those drafts in the courts of
the United States, and could not, by indorsement, confer upon
others a right denied by the law to themselves.
By the 11th section of the act of Congress establishing the
Judical Courts of the United States, it is declared, that no District or Circuit Court of the United States shall have cognizance
of any suit to recover the contents of* any promissory note
or other chose in action, in favor of an assignee, unless a suit
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said
contents, if no assignment had been made, except in cases of
foreign bills of exchange. This provision has been expounded
by this court as early as 1779 in the case of Turner's Administrator v. The Bank of North America, 4 Dall. 8. It has received
a farther interpretation in the case of Montalet v. Murray, 4
Cranch, 46; of Young v. Bryan, 6 Wheat. 146; of Mollan v.
Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537; and of Evans v. Gee, 11 Pet. 80.
These several decisions have settled the construction of the
11th section of the Judiciary Act, and the principle they
have affirmed is unquestionably fatal to a right of recovery
under the twenty-three first counts, for they deny jurisdiction in
the courts of the United States over cases of intermediate deduction of title from the payee, where such payde and the maker
of the instrument are citizens of the same State, with the exception of foreign bills of exchange; and in the case before us every
special count is framed upon a title thus deduced; and is not
within the exception made by the statute. But whilst the authorities cited have laid down the above doctrine with reference
*to intermediate deductions of title from the payee of a note or
check, they have ruled with equal clearness that as between the

188

SUPREME COURT.
Coffee v. The Planters Bank of Tennessee.

immediate indorsee and indorser, being citizens and inhabitants
of different States, the jurisdiction of the Federal courts attaches,
as upon a distinct contract between these parties, independently
of the residence of the original and remote parties to the instrument. Upon the doctrine thus ruled, the following question recurs for our decision upon this record, viz., whether the plaintiff
below, the defendant in error, as a corporation created by and
situated within the State of Tennessee, and the members of
which corporation were citizens of that State, as immediate indorsee of the plaintiff in error, a citizen and inhabitant of the
State of Mississippi, had the right to a recovery against him, as
the immediate indorser of the notes or checks on which the action was founded. As to the general principle relative to the
jurisdiction of the Federal courts, and as to the right of recovery
or of action as between the immediate indorsee and indorser, we have already stated that principle as having been conclusively settled; if then there can be an objection to its application or controlling effect in the case before us, it must exist as
to the manner of that application in the proceedings in this
cause, and not to the rule itself. Such objection, it has been
attempted, on the part of the plaintiff in error, to maintain.
Thus it is disclosed upon the record, that after the general
issue pleaded by all the defendants except the Mississippi and
Alabama Railroad, who were i. default, the action was by order
of the Circuit Court, on the motion of the plaintiff, discortinued
as to all the defendants except the now plaintiff in error, the
last indorser, and as to him also, upon all the counts except
the general indebitatusfssumpsit, upon which the case was tried
and verdict and judgment obtained. It has been insisted, that
the proceeding just mentioned, under the order of the Circuit
Court, was erroneous; that the liability of the defendants was
a joint libiity, as set forth in the declaration, and could not
.be severed upon motion, and that the discontinuance as to one
of the defendants was a discontinuance as to ther. all. It
may here be remarked, in the first place, that however the liability of the defendants below may have been presented by the
declaration, it is certain that the responsibility of the indorser
to his immediate indorsee, is strictly a several responsibility, and
that so far as the jurisdiction of the Federal court is concerned, there is no right in the indorsee to look beyond that
responsibility into transactions between citizens of the same
State. The courts of the United States, therefore, could not,
upon the face of the pleadings: take cognizance of questions beyond the several responsibility arising out of the transaction
between the indorsee and his immediate indorser. We deem
it unnecessary, however, to examine critically, in connection with

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

189

Coffee v. The Planters Bank of Tennessee

the proceedings had in this cause, the doctrine of joint and several obligations as settled by the common law and the rules of.
pleading founded thereon, and are the less disposed to listen to
objections drawn from that source at this stage of the case, as not
an exception has been taken upon the record to any of the proceedings in the Circuit Court, which are therefore entitled to
every presumption in their favor, whether of fact or law, which
is not excluded by absolute authority. But the proceedings in
this case should not be tested by the rules of the common law
in relation to joint and several obligations ; but should be judged
of by the regulations of a local polity which has been adopted
by the courts of the United States, and in conformity with
which the pleadings in this case have been controlled and modelled.

By the statute of Mississippi, vide Howard & Hutchinson's
edition, c. 44, p. 57a, s. 9, it is declared that, "Every joint
bond, covenant, bill, or promissory note, shall be deemed and
construed to have the same effect in law as a joint and several
bond, covenant, bill, or promissory note, and it shall be lawful
to sue out process and proceed to judgment against any one
of the obligors, covenantors, or drawers of such bond, covenant,
bill, or promissory note, in the same manner as if the same were
joint and several." In the same collection, c. 45, p. 594, s. 28,
it is laid down, that "it shall hereafter be lawful for the holder
or holders of any covenant, bond, bill, or promissory note, signed
by two or more persons, to sue any number of the covenantors,
obligors, or drawers thereof in one and the same action."
By these statutory provisions the rules prescribed under the
common law with respect to suits upon joint and several promises have been essentially changed, and the same license which
concedes to a party the power of instituting his suit against one
or more, or all the parties to an undertaking, carries with it by
necessary implication the right to prosecute or discontinue it in
the same sense and to the same extent and degree. In accordance with this conclusion is. the interpretation given to the statutes of Mississippi by the Supreme Court of that State, as will
be seen in the cases of Peyton & Halliday v. Scott, 2 How.
(Miss.) Rep. 870; Lynch et al. v. Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, 4 Id. 377; Dennison v. Lewis, 6 Id. 517; Prewet
v, Caruthers et al.i 7 Id. 304; and that interpretation, by the
State court, of these statutes, has been repeatedly sanctioned
as a rule of proceeding in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Distiict of Mississippi, by the decisions of this
court, as will be seen by the cases of McAfee v. Doremus, 5
How. 53; of The Bank of the United States v. Moss et al.
6 How. 31; and of The United States v- Girault et al. 11'

SUPREME COURT.
Weems v. George et al.

How. 22. It follows, then, from the foregoing authorities, as
an inevitable conclusion, that whether the undertakiDngs set out
in the special counts or in the general indebitatus assmnpsit be
taken as joint or as, joint and several, it would have constituted
no valid objection to the proceedings in the Circuit Court by which
the cause was discontinued, as to all the defendants save the
last or immediate indorser, even had such an objection been
directly and expressly presented and reserved by the pleadings.
That discontinuance deprived him of no right, imposed upon him
no burden or responsibility he was not already bound to sustain
-- it merely left him in the exact position in which his undertaking with the plaintiff below could be regularly and properly adjudicated. Upon full c6nsideration, therefore, we think that the
judgment of the Circuit Court should be, and the same is hereby
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Southern Distaict of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration xvhereof, it is now here ordered, and adjudged, by this
court, that the judgment of said Circuit Court in this cause, be,
and the same is hereby affirmed with costs and damages, at the
rate of six -per centum per annum.

ALEXANDER H. WEEMS, PLAINTIFF
IN
ERROR, V. ANN
GEORGE, CONELLY GEORGF, ROSE ANN GEORGE, WIFE OF
JOHN STEEN, MARY ANN GEORGE, WIFE OF THOMAS CONN,
NANCY GEORGE, WIFE OF JAMES GILMOUR, MARGARET GEORGE,
WIFE OF WILLIAM MILLER, JOHN STEEN, THOMAS CONN,
JAMES GILMOUR, AND WILLIAM MILLER.
Where there was a sale of an undivided moiety of a tracd of land, and the purchaser
undertook to extinguish certain liens upon it, which he failed to do; and in consequence of such failure the liens were enforced, and had to be paid by the heirs of
the origina owner, a suit by these heirs against the purchaser to recover damages
for the non-fulfilment of his contract to extinguish the liens, was not within the prohibition of the llth section of the Judiciary Act, 1 Stat. at Large, 78. The heirs,
being aliens, had a right to sue in the Circuit Court.
In a trial in Louisiana, where the judge tried the whole case without the intervention
of a jury, a bill of exceptions to the admission of testimony by the judge, cannot
be sustained in this court.
The extinguishment of the liens by the heirs of the original owner, was effected by process of law and attended with costs. It was proper that these costs also, as well as

