250

SUPREME COURT.
Glenn et al. v. The United States.

same land cannot be favorably considered by the court. Under
the circumstances, no right became vested in him, by reason of
his entry of the land, which could be regarded or enforced by a
court of equity. The judgment of the State court is, therefore,
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, and was
argued by counsel;' On consideration waereof, it is now here
ordered, and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause, be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

JOHN GLENN AND CHARLES A. THRUSTOx, APPELLANTS, V. THE
UNITED STATES.
In 1796, when Delassus xvas commandant of the port of New Madrid, he exercised
the powers of sub-delegate, and had authority, unde, the instructions of the Governor-General of Louisiana, to make conditional grants of land.
He made a grant to Clamorgan, who stipulated, upon his part, that he would introduce a colony from -Canada, for the purpose of cultivating hemp and making
cordage.
This obligation he entirely failed to perform.
By the laws'and ordinances of the Spanish colonial government, (which this court is
bound, under the act of 1844, to adopt, as one of their rules of decision,) this condition had to be performed before Clamorgan could become possessed of a perfect
title.
The difference between this case and that of Arredondo explained.
If the-Spanish Governor would have refused to complete the title, this court, acting
under the laws of Congress, must also decline to confirm it.
After the cession of the province of Louisiana to the United States, Clamorgan
could not legally have takeu any steps to fulfil his conditidn. He was forbidden
by law. By the treaty of cession, no particular time was allowed for grantees to
complete their imperfect grants. It was left to the political department of the
government, and Congress accordingly acted upon the subject.
The 3d day of March, 1804, was the time fixed by Congress, and the grant must nbw
be judged of, as-it stood upon that day.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the State of Arkansas.
Glenn and Thruston, the appellants, filed a. petition in the
District Court of Arkansas, 'on the 24th of January, 1846, in
virtue of the act of 1824, as revived by the act of 1844, claiming
confirmation of a concession of a large trazt of country which lies
partly in Arkansas and partly in. Missouri, consisting of nearly
half a million of acres of land and known as the Clamorgan
grant.

DECEM]2WER TERM, 1851.
Glenn et Al. v.

th

The United States.

The circumstances of this grant are fully set forth in the
opinion.
'The District Court decided against the claim and the petitioners appealed to this court.
It was argued by 111r. Webster and 3Mr. Tohnson, for the appellants, and 11"r. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the United
States. The points made by the counsel respectively were the
following.
For the appellants:
1st. Because if the concession was upon cofnditions they were
conditions subsequent to the vesting of the estate in the grantee,
and could only be taken advantage of by some proceeding for
that purpose instituted by Spain, or.by France, or by the United
States claiming under Spain, and no such proceedings have been
instituted. 3 Am. St. Papers, 270; 5 Id. 704.
2d. Because if the concession was upon conditions which
should have been complied with in order to vest the estate as
against Spain, whilst the conditions were practicable and might
have been performed by the grantee, the estate vested without
such performance because the province was ceded by Spain before the time for performance had expired, and because of the
change of government, manners, &c., consequent on that cession.
The United States v. Arredondo et al., 6 Pet. 706; Soulard et
al. v. The United States, 4 Pet. 511; Delassus v. The United
States, 9 Pet. 117.; The United States v. Percheman, 7 Pet. 51;
Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410; The Upited States v. Forbes,
15 Pet. 173; The United States v. King, 3 How. 773; Chouteau
v. Eckhart, 2 How. 344; The United States v. Lawton et al.,
5 How. 10; Hughes et al. v. Edwards et al., 9 Wheat. 489; 2
Black. 157; 2 Thomas's Coke, 18.
3d. Because there was a sufficient survey of the grant; and
4th. Because no such survey was necessary, the calls of the
grant being sufficiently certain of themselves to separate te
land granted from the rest of the royal domain.
5th. That the District Court had jurisdiction over the claim.
Act of 26 May, 1824, c. 173, 4 Stat. at Large, 52; act of 9
July, 1832, c. 180, 4 Stat. at Large,,565; act of 17 June, 1844,
c. 95, 5 Stat. at Large, 676.
6th. That the decision of the District Court of Missouri was
no bar to this suit.
.Mr. Crittenden, for the United States.
I. That the claim is barred under both th act of 1824 and,
1832.

SUPREME COURT.
Glenn et al. :.

The UniteL States.

II. That Delassus had no authority to make such a concession, and the burden of proof is on the claimants to show that
he had such authority.
III. That the concession could not have been perfected into
a complete title, from the political considerations mentioned.
IV. That the conditions of the concession were never performed during the sovereignty of Spain over the country, or
since, and that Clamorgan mat be considered as having abandoned the claim.
V. That the cession of Louisiana to the United States did
not make the concession absolute, without the performance of
the conditions.
VI. That the survey of 1806 was void for want of authority
to make it.
VII. That the concession is void for uncertainty in the description of the land intended to be conceded.
That Clamorgan lost all claim to have the concession perfected into a complete title, even if it had been in all other respects unobjectionable, by his failure to comply with the requisitions of the 23d article of Morales' regulations of 1799, to make
known his incomplete title within the six months limited by
that article. Read the 23d article in connection with the four
preceding articles. 2"White's Recop. 240.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
In August, 1796, James Clamorgan petitioned Colonel Delassus, then acting as commandant of the post and dependency
of New Madrid, for a grant of land fronting on the Mississippi
River, for many miles, and running back to the western branches
of White River, including a section of country equal in area to
536,904 arpens, as was afterwards ascertained by measurement.
To obtain title and possession of this large quantity of land,
Clamorgan represented, that he was a merchant residing in St.
Louis; that he had been strongly encouraged by the GovernorGeneral of the Province of Louisiana, to establish a manufac.
tory of cordage, fit and proper for the use of his Spanish Majes.
ty's vessels, and especially for the necessities of the Havana, to
which place His Excellency desired the petitioner to export the
cordage, under his, the Governor-General's protection; of which
facts the commandant was advised, so that he might exercise
his power to favor an enterprise likely to become very important
to the prosperity of the dependency, and very lucrative to all the
inhabitants of Upper Louisiana. Furthermore, that the petitioner, Clamorgan, was then connected in correspondence and
interest with a powerful house in Canada, which might procure
for him a sufficient number of cultivators to teach in that region

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

253

Glenn et al. v. The United States.

the manner of cultivating hemp, and fabricating it into various
kinds of cordage, in the most perfect manner, so as thereby to
respond to the views of the General Government; which desired
the prosecution of this enterprise by all proper and honest means
that possibly could be used, in order to exempt His Majesty
from drawing in future from foreigners this article so important
for the equipment of his vessels.
Clamorgan farther stated, that "it is with this hope, that'the
petitioner has actively made the most pressing demands to obtain froin his correspondents in Montreal a considerable number
of people proper for this culture, who must of necessity by inducement be attracted hither, although at this moment the political circumstances of Canada appear to oppose it; but in more
favorable times hereafter this object may undoubtedly be obtained. Notwithstanding which, the petitioner is obliged to
assure himself, in advance, from you, Monsieur, a title which
may guarantee to him the proprietorship of a quantity of arable
land, proportioned to his views, in order to form an extensive
establishment, as soon as the time shall appear favorable to his
enterprise, and as soon as his correspondents shall be able, without compromitting their sense of duty, to cause to'emigrate to
this country the number of people necessary to give birth to this
culture, so much desired by the government."
" Considering, Monsieur, this exposition 'of the petitioner, and
the particular recommendations of His Excellency the GovernorGeneral of the province, the petitioner hopes that you will be
pleased to grant him the quantity of land which he desires- to
obtain, as well in order to favor him, the execution of all which
may contribute to the future success of his project, as to furnish
him the means of attracting hereafter from a foreign cbuntry an
,uiiration of cultivators, which may not, perhaps, be obtained
'nti1 after a considerable lapse af time, and upon promises of
rewards, which the petitioner will be obliged to fulfil in their
favor."
The land solicited is then described; and the petitioner proceeds to set forth the title he desires: " To the end that as soon
as it may be in the power of the petitioner, he may be able to
establish and select, in the tract of land so demanded, those portions which shall be best fitted to improve for the culture of
hemp; because, inasmuch as a great tract of said lands is now
drowned in swamps and unimprovable lowland, making it impossible to fix establishments in its whole extent; all to be done
that the petitioner may enjoy the land, and dispose of it always
as a property belonging to him, his heirs or assigns; and also
may distribute them, or part of them, if he think fit, in favor of
such person or persons as he may judge proper, to attain, as far*
VOL. XiIi.

22

SUPREME

COURT.

Glenn et al. v. The United States.

as on him depends, the accomplishment of his project; and the
petitioner will never cease to return thanks for your favors.'
To this demand of Clamorgan, the commandant responded,
and proceeded to grant as follows: " Since, by the exposition
contained in this petition, the means of the petitioner are appar
rent to me, and his new connection with the house of Todd,
which will be able to facilitate to him the accomplishment of
the enterprise proposed, the profit whereof, if it succeed, will
redound in part to the advantage of this remote country, miserable on account of its small actual population; and I giving
particular attention to the recommendations which Sehor the
Baron de Carondelet, Governor-General of these provinces, has
communicated to me, when he thought fit to appoint me commandant'of this post and its dependencies, ' to seek by all means
the mode of increasing the population, and of encouraging agriculture in all its branches, and particularly the cultivation of
hemp,' it appearing to me that the propositions which the petitioner makes are conducive to the attainment of this last recommendation. In virtue of this, I concede to him, for him and his
heirs, the tract of land which he solicits, in the place and with
the same boundaries that he prays for, provided there is injury
to no. one; and so that the same may be established, he shall
cause a survey to be made, not obliging him to accomplish this
immediately, as from the excessive extent of space, it would
cause him great expense, if it were done before fhe arrival of
the families, which he is bound to cause to 'come from Canada,
bul so that on their arrivalf and being put in possessiofi, it shall
be his duty to secure his property, by means of exercising the
power of survey, in order afterwards that he may make application to the Governor-General, to obtain his approval with the
title in form of this his concession."
By various conveyances, the foregoing claim was vested in
Glenn and Thruston, who filed their petition in the District
Court of Arkansas, seeking to have it confirmed according to
the act of 1844. They set forth Clamorgan's application; the
commandant's decree thereon, and the mesne nonveyances.
The Attorney of the United States answered, and, among
other grounds of defence set up, alleged, that he'was wholly uninformed as to the several statements and allegations contained
in the petition; that he denied the said statements and allegations, and required full proof thereof; as well as of all other
matters and things necessary or material, to establish the validity of the claim of said James Clamorgan.
On these issues the parties went to trial.
The petitioners established by proof that Clamorgan's application, and the Governor's decree thereon, were genuine; and

DE'CEMBER TERM, 1851.

255

Glenn et al. v. The United States.

also proved a due execution of the several conveyances vesting
title in Glenn and Thruston. No other evidence was introduced
by either side. The District Court dismissed the petition; and
from that decree an appeal was prosecuted to this court.
No controversy has been raised drawing in question the valid-ity of the mesne conveyances; nor do we suppose there is any
difficulty in locating the land demanded in Clamorgan's petition: Prind facie, its locality is sufficiently described to authorize a survey thereof according to Spanish usages.
As regards the commandant's power to make the concession
to Clamorgan there is more difficulty. In 1796, when Delassus
was commandant at the post of New Madrid, he also acted as
sub-delegate and exercised the faculty of ganting concessions
for, and ordering surveys of land. In the exercise of his funetions he was directly subordinate to the Governor-General at
New Orleans; and acted according to his iihsfructions. Nor
was he in any degree dependent on the Lieutenant-Governor
of Upper Louisiana, residing at St. Louis; as appears by a letter of August 26, 1799, from Morales to Delassus, reciting the
facts. The letter is found in document, 12 of Senate Documents, 2d Session 21st Congress, p. 29, and filed as evidence by
Judge Peck, preparatory to his trial before the Senate of the
United States.
In a deposition of Delassus, forming part of the documents
fied before the Board of Commissioners for Missouri, in.1833,
and afterwards returned by them for the consideration of Congress, D&lassus states the fact that he, as commandant at Ne*
Madrid, exercised the powers of sub-delegate. Doe. No. 59,
p. 17, H. Repts. lst Session, 24th Congress.
This commandant's powers were therefore, coextensive with
those of the Lieutenant-Governor at St. Louis, in distributing
the public domain. Having acted under the Governor-General,
to whose orders and instructions the commandant was bound to
conform, it becomes necessary to ascertain what these instructions were in the present instance; and taking the facts stated
in Clamorgan's memorial, and in Delassus's decree thereon, to be
true, (as we are compelled to do,) it is sufficiently manifest, as
we think, that the commandant Oid stipulate with Clamorgan,
in accordance with the Governor-General's instructions. That the
Governor-General had power thus to contract was held by this
court, when the agreements of Maison Rouge, and Bastrop,
were before. it for -adjudication; and having done the same
through his deputy in' this instance, the acts of that deputy cannot be called in question, on the assumption that he exceeded
his powers.
In the document No. 59, above referred to, Delassus states

256

SUPREME COURT.
Glenn et al. v. The United States.

what his practice was, in giving out concessions. He kept no
books in which the fact was recorded; all he did was to indorse
his decree on the petition, and return it to the party demanding
the land; and the party might hand it to the surveyor, or retain
it at his option. That he, Delassus, believad the surveyor made
a note of the concession of record; but whether before or after
the survey was made, he knew not, as that matter did not concern the deponent. That no time was limited within which the
party was bound to survey.
Thus it appears that Clamorgan got the paper title relied on,
in the ordinary form, and which he retained in his own hands
until after Upper Louisiana was delivered to the United States
in March, 1804. No possession was taken of the land, or any
part of it; nor was it surveyed during the time Spain governed
the country; nor has any claimant under Clamorgan ever had
possession, so far as this record shows.
The surveys produced to us are private ones, and of no value
in support of the claim. And this brings us to a consideration
of the mere title paper, standing alone. On its true meaning
this controversy depends.
1. The petition of Clamorgan, and Delassus's decree on it,
mhust be construed together; there being a proposition to do certain acts on the one side, and an acceptance on the other, limited
by several restrictions.
2. What is stated in either paper as to facts, or intent, must
be taken as true.
Such are the rules laid do.wn in Boisdor6's case, 11 How. 87,
and which apply here.
The country was vacant, and greatly needed population;
which could only be drawn from abroad; and this population
Clamorgan stipulated that he would supply, and establish a
colony from Canada on the land. That he would introduce
cultivators of hemp, and artisans skilled in the manufacture of
cordage; and would grow hemp and make cordage, to an extent
so large 4s to be of national consequence.
On the faith of these promises the grant was made. As
already stated, no step was taken by Clanaorgan to perform the
contract; all that he did was a presentation of his petition, and
the obtaining of Pelassus's approval and decree on it. This
paper he retained about thirteen years, when it was assigned to
Pierre Choteau, May 2d, 1809, by a deed of conveyance for the
land claimed. In view of the:3e facts, several legal considerations arise.
It was held in Arredondo's case, 6 Peters, 711, that, by con.
senting to be sued, the United States had submitted to judicial
action, and considered the suit as of a purely judicial character,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Glenn et al. v. The United States.

which the courts were bound to decide as between man and
man litigating the same subject-matter; and that, in thus deciding the courts were restricted within the limits, and governed by
the rules Congress had prescribed. The principal rules applicable here, are, that in settling the question' of validity of title,
we are required, by the act of 1824, to proceed in conformity
with the principles of justice; according to the law of nations;
the stipulations of the treaty by which the country was acquired,
and the proceedings under the same; the several acts of Congress in relation thereto; and the laws and ordinances of the
.government from which the claim is alleged to hbve been derived.
Wrhen deciding according to the law of nations, and the stipulations of the treaty, w 6 are bound to hold, that such title as
Clamorgan had by his concession, or first decree, stood secured'
to him as private property; and that the claim being assignable,
the complainants represent Clamorgan. And this brings us to
the question as to what right was acquired by the concession,
according to the laws and ordinances of the Spanish Colonial
Government, existing and in force, when the grant was made.
By these, the commandant Delassus, had authority to contract,
and give concessions, and make orders of survey, by first decrees,
either with or without conditions; as this court held in the case
of Soulard v. The United States, 10 Pet. 144; provided, the
concession was founded on a consideration primd facie good;
either past, when the concession was made, or to followin'future.
Here, the consideration was to arise, by future performance, on
the part of the grantee. But, it is insisted that forasmuch as a title
vested in Clamorgan by the grant to him, even admitting that
it was incumbered with conditions, still, as their perfortnance
was to happen subsequent to the vesting of the estate, the want
of performance could only be taken advantage of by a proceeding instituted by government for that especial purpose; nor could
want of performance be set up as a defence, in this suit.
If the premises assumed were true, the conclusion would
necessarily follow; and Arredondo's case is relied on in support
of this position, and as governing the present cuse. That proceeding was founded on a perfect title, having every sanction
the Spanish government could confer. It was brought before
the courts according to the 6th section of the act of May 23,
1828, which embraced perfect titles, and was oily applicable to
suits in Florida.
The subsequent condition there relied on to annul the grant,
was rendered immaterial, and perhaps impossible, by the grantor
himself, as this court held; and the grantee discharged from its
performance. But in Clamor-an's case, the conditions to occupy
22**

258

SUPREME COURT.
Glenn et al. v. The United States.

and cultivate were precedent conditions; they addressed themselves to the Governor-General, and. their performance was
required in advance. Before any-right existed in Clamorgan to
apply for a complete title; or even to have a public survey, preparatory to such application, he was bound by his contract to
establish his colony on the land; and furthermore, to set up his
manufactory to make cordage, and to supply it with hemp grown
on the land, unless these conditions were wvaived on the part of
the Spanish government. And as we are called on by the complainants to adjudge the validity of this cledm, and to order that
a ,patent shall issue for the land, in the name of the United
States, it necessarily follows, the same duty is imposed on us
that would have devolved on the Governor-General, had the
Spanish government continued in Louisiana.
By the Spanish regulations, Clamorgan was not recognized
as owner of a legal title without the further act of the King's
deputy, the Governor-General; or the Intendant-General, after
the power to make perfect grants was conferred. on him. Until
this was done, the legal title remained in the crown; and the
same rule has been applied in this country; no standing can be
allowed to imperfect and unrecognized claims in the ordinary
judicial tribunals, until confirmed either by Congress directly, or
by a special tribunal constituted by Congress for that purpose.
For our opinion more at large on this subject, we refer to the
case of Menard v. Massey, 8 How. 305, 306, 307.
As we are asked to decree the final title and bound to do so,
in like manner that the Spanish Governor-General or Intendant
was bound, it follows we may refuse, for the same legal reasons,
that they could refuse. And the question presented is, whether
we are bound to refuse, according to, the face of the contract
sued on, and in conformity to our previous decisions in other
cases, depending on similar principles?
Very many applications made for perfect titles to the District
Courts, under the act of 1824, have been resisted, because subsequent conditions had not been con-:plied with: First, such as
mill grants in Florida, where the usual quantity of 16,000 acres
was given by concession, with a condition that the mill should
be built within a specified time: Second, where grants were
made for the purpose of cultivation, and no cultivation followed,
as in the case of Wiggins, (14 Pet.) and of hoisdor6, (11 How.):
Third, where, by the concession, parties were required by special regulations to levee and ditch on the river's front in Lower
Louisiana. These were subsequent conditions, just as much as
the introduction of a colony of hemp-growers, and the manufacture of cordage, by Clamorgan; and yet, no one has ever suecessfuly maintained that a party having -,uch concession, could

DECEMBER TERM,- 1851.

259

Glenn et al. v. The United States.

hold, the land and obtain a perfect title, although he did not
build the mill, nor occupy and cultivate, nor levee and ditch,
founded on the assumption that performance was unhecessary.
In all these cases it was held that performance was a condition
precedent and the real equity, on which a favorable-decree for a
patent could be founded, under the act of 1824.
Ti Clamorgan's concession carries with it conditions, similar
in principle, it must abide by this settled rule of decision. This
depends on the true meaning of his contract with the Spanish
authorities. He agreed to establish a colony by introducin a
foreign population, and to grow hemp and manufacture cordage,
to an amount so large as to make it a national object. By these
promises he obtained a concession for more than half a million
of arpens of land. A promise of performance was the sole
ground on which the Spanish commandant made the conces-,
sion; and actual performance was to be the consideration on
which a complete title could issue.
So far from complying, Clamorgan never took a single step,
after the agreement was made; and in 1809 sold out his claim
on speculation, for the paltry sum of fifteen hundred dollars.
Under these circumstances we are called on to decide in his
favor, according to the principles of justice: this being the rule
prescribed to us by the act of 1824, and the Spanish regulations.
To hold that an individual should have decreed to him, or to, his
assignees, a domain of land more than equal to sevbn hundred
square miles, for no better reason than that he had the ingenuity
to induce a Spanisl commandant to grant the concession,
founded on extravagant promises, not one of which was ever
complied with, would shock all sense of justice. And such decision would be equally contrary to the policy pursued by Spain,
which was, to make grants for the purposes of settlement and
inhabitation, and not to the end of mere speculation. We so
held in Boisdord's case, (11 How. 96,) and the principle applies
even more strongly in this case than it did in that; as there,
something was done towards compliance; and here, nothing has
been attempted.
The remaining ground on which the complainants demand a
confirmation is the following: "Bec.use if the concession was
upon conditions which should have been complied with in order
to vest the estate as against Spain, vhilst the conditions werepracticable and might have been performed by the grantee, the-,
estate vested without such performance, because the province
was ceded by Spain before the time for performance had expired,
and because of the change of government, manners, &c., consequent on that cession."
That Clamorgan could take no step after the change' of government, is not open to controversy.

260

"SUPREME COURT.
Glenn et al. v. Th3 United States.

By the 14th section of the act of March 28, 1804, which established the Territories of Orleans and Louisiana, Clamorgan
-was prevented from doing any further act in support of his title,
had he been disposed so to do. He was positively prohibited
from making settlements on the land, or making a survey of it,
under the penalty of fine and imprisonment. But no advantage
resulted from this provision to claimants whose concessions carried with them conditions that had not then been complied with.
The 1st section of the act of 1824, in conformity to which we
are 'now exercising jurisdiction, limits the courts, as to the validity of title and standing of the various claims, to the, condition
they held before the tenth of March, 1804.
By the 3d article of the treaty of cession by which Louisiana
was acquired, it was stipulated that the inhabitants of the ceded
country should be admitted as soon as possible, and become
citizens of the United States, and be maintained in the free enjoyment of their property in the mean time. But no time was
provided by the treaty within which conditions appertaining to
imperfect grants of land might be perforraed; this was left to
the justice and discretion of our government; and in a due exercise of that discretion, the acts of 1804 and 1824 were passed;
and to these acts of Congress, the 2d section of the act of 1824
commands us to conform.
The treaty addressed itself to the political department; and
up to the passing of the act of 1824, that department alone had
power to perfect titles, and administer equities to claimants.
And when judicial cognizance was conferred on the comwts of
juistice to determine questions bf title between the government
and individuals, the limits of that jurisdiction were prescribed,
to wit: that no act done by the Spanish authorities, or by an
individual claimant, after the 3d day of March, 1804, should
have any e'ffect on the title; but that its validity should be determined according to its condition at that date.
All claims lying within the territory acquired by the treaty of
1803, which have been brought before the courts, according to
the acts of 1824 and 1844, have been comrelled to abide by this
test; great numbers have been rejected, because the conditions
of occupation and cultivation had not been complied with before
the restraining act of 1804 wes passed, o. before the 10th day
of March, 1804. Nor have the claimants under Clamorgan
more right to complain than others; his neglect extended through
nearly eight years, during the existence of the Spanish government; whereas many similar claims have been rejected, where
the neglect was not half so long.
If Clamorgan could come forward because of the prohibition,
and be heard to excuge himself from performing the onerous

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

261

The Heirs of Don Carlos de Vilemont v. The United States.

conditions his contract imposed, so could everr other claimant
who had neither taken possession, nor in
"ny
manner complied
with his contract, do the same; and on this assumption, concessions issued by France or Spain would be'without condition,
and a simple grant of the land described in the -paper. Its
genuineness, and proof of identity of the land, would settle the
question of title.
No tribunal has ever accorded any credence to this claim; two
boards of commissioners have pronounced it invalid: the first in
1811, and the second in 1835. The latter on the ground that
the conditions of the 'grant had not been complied with. By
this decision it fell into the mass of 'public lands, according to
the 3d section of the act of July 9, 1832, which declares that
the lanis contained in the second class (being those rejected)
shall b- subject to sale'as other public lands. Bythe act of 17th
June, 1944, another opportunity was afforded to apply to the
District 'Court for a confirmation; that court agreed with the
boards of commissioners, and again declared the claim invalid,
because the conditions had not been complied with, and dismissed the petition; and with this decree we concur.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the District of
Arkansas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said District Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed.
THE HEIs

OF DON CARLOS DE VILEMONT, APPELLANTS, V.
THE: UNITED STATES.

In 1795, Baron de Carondelet, the Governor-General of Louisiana. made a grant of
land on the Mississippi River, upon condition that a road and clearing should be
made within one year, and an establishment made upon the land uithin three
years.
Nither of these conditions was complied with, nor was possession taken under the
grant until after the cession of the country to the United States.
The excuses for these omissions, namely, that the grantee was commandant at the
post of Arkansas, and that the Indians were hostile, are not satisfactory; because the grantee must have known these circumstances when he obtained the
grant.
According to the principles established in the preceding ease of Glenn and Thruston v. The United States, the Spanish authorities would not have confirmed this
grant, neither can this court confirm it.
Moreover, in this case, the land claimed cannot he located by a survey.

Tins was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Arkansas.

