268

SUPREME COURT.
Neves et al. v. Scott ct al.

trict of Arkansas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.

WILLIAM[ NEVES AND JAMES

C.

NEVES, APPELLANTS,

V..WIL-

LIAM H. SCOTT AND THOMAS N. BEALL, ADMINISTRATORS OF
WILLIAM F. SCOTT, DECEASED, AND GEORGE W. ROWELL AND
LAWRENCE G. ROWELL, EXECUTORS OF RICHARD ROWELL,
DECEASED,

The courts of the United States, under the Constitution and laws, have equity jurisdiction. Unless the general principles of equity hav. been modified by the laws or
usages of a particular State, those general principles will be carried out everywhere
in the same manner, and equity jurisprudence be the same, when administered by
the courts of the United States, in all the States.
Hence, the decision of a State court, in a case which involved only the general principles of equity, and was not controlled by local law or usage, is not binding as
authority upon this court.
In the case of Neves et al. v. Scott et al, reported in 9 Howard, 196, this court

decided two points, -one,

thatvolunteers could, in that case, claim the interference

of chancery to enforce the marriage articles in question
articles constituted an executed trust.

and the other, that the

The Supreme Court of Georgia does not agree with this court upon the first point.
Nevertheless, this court does not change its decision.

Moreover, the second point upon which this court rested the case droes not appear to
have been brought before the Supreme Court of Georgia; and, of course, it expressed no opinion upon the point.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Georgia.
It was argued at December term, 1849, and is reported in 9
How. 196. It being suggested afterwards that, at the time when
the case was argued and decided, Richard Rowell, the principal
defendant, was dead, the judgment was stricken out and the
cause argued again.
It was argued by Mr. .Tonson, for the appellants, and Mr. Cone,
for the appellees.

lir. Cone, for the appellees made the following points:
1st. The marriage contract is executory; it conveys no titles,
and creates no trusts, nor does it impair or abridge the rights of
the husband during the continuance of the coverture. 2 Story's
Eq. Jur. sects. 1, 379, 380, 381, 382, 383. Clancy on Rights,
269; Hill on Trustees, 420.
2d. Roper on Husband and Wife, 16, 161 ; Sca "orough v.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

Neves et al. v. Scott et al.

Bowman, 1 Beav. 34; Stanton v. Hall, 2 R. & M. 180; Harkins v. Colton, 2 Porter's Rep. 463; Cook v. Kinny, 12 Alabama
Rep. 42; Stewart v. Stewart, 7 Johns. Ch. Rep. 229; 7 Smedes
& Marshall's Rep. 798; Lee v. Perdue, 3 Brown's Chancery
Rep. 358.
The fact that the parties to the contract considered it as final,
and contemplated no further settlement, cannot alter its legal
character or change its legal effect. Hester, Executor, v. Young,
2 Georgia Rep. 45, 46: Barker v. Giles, Rice, Eq. R. 516; Lee
v. Perdue, 3 Brown's Chancery Rep. 381; Hill on Trustees, 84;
Antrobus v. Smith, 12 Ves. 39; 6 Humph. Rep. 127.
2d. The complainants are not within the marriagj consideration, and do not claim through any person, that is, they claim not
as heirs, but as purchasers under the articles; they are, therefore, volunteers. Osgood v. Strode, 2 P. Williams. 255; Goodwin v. Goodwin, 1 Ves. 228; Tudor v. Anson, 2 Ves. 582;
Marston v. Gowan, 3 Bro. Ch. 170; Strode v. Russel, 2 Vern.
621; Bias v. Bias, 2 Ves. 164; Atherley oh Mar. Set. 66, 73,
74, 75; Story's Eq. Jur. sect. 986; Kittery v. Atwood, 1 Vern.
298, 471; 2 P. Williams, 172; 1 P. Williams, 483; Beatson v.
Beatson, 12 Sim. 281 ; Goring v. Nash, 3 Atk. 186; Holtv. Holt,
2 P. Williams, 248; Johnson v. Legard, Turner & Russell, 281,
293; Colgate v. Mulgrave, 2 Keen, 98; Salton v. Chetwynd, 3
Meriv. 249; 6 Maule & Selw. 60.
3d. Courts of equity will not interpose in favor of volunteers,
either upon a contract, covenant, or settlement. 2 Story's Eq.
sects. 793, 973, 986, 987; 1 Turner & Russell, 296; Coleman
v. Sarel, 2 Ves. Jr. 50; Hill on Trustees, 83; Atherley on Mar.
Set. 72, 73, 74, 76 ; 2 Story's Eq. Jur. 372, 433, 706, 787; Jeffreys
v. Jeffreys, 1 Craig & Phil. 138, 141 ; Ellison v. Ellison, 6 Ves.
656; Colman v. Sarel, 3 Brown's Ch. 12; Edwards v. Jones,
1 Mylne & Craig, 226; Dillon v. Coffin, 4 Mylne & Craig, 647;
Halloway v. Headington, 8 Sh. 324, 571; Meek v. Hallowell,
1 Hare, 464, 475; Wycherly v. Wycherly, 2 Eden, 177; 2 Keen,
81, 123, 134.
4th. But if there were any doubt in relation to the soundness
of the foregoing positions, the law of Georgia upon these points
has been settled by a decision of the Supreme Court of that State,
made upon the contract now under consideration, and being a
contract made in Ueorgia, and to be executed in Georgia, its
character, interpretation, force, and effect, must- be governed by
the laws of that State.
Carroll v. Renich,. 7' Smedes & Marshall, 798; 12 Wheat
153, 167; 5 Pet. 151; 6 Pet. 172; 8 Pet.'361; 8 How. 170; 1
Gall. Circuit Court Rep. 160, 371.
In the case of Merritt et al. v Scott & Beall, 6 Georgia Rep.
23 *

270

SUPREME COURT.
Neves

et al. v. Scott et al.

563, the questions now presented to tiis court upon this contract came before the Supreme Court of that State. That court
established the following positions:
1st. That marriage articles, like those now under consideration, will be specifically executed upon the application of any
person within the scope of the consideration of such marriage,
or claiming under such person.
2d. That in no case whatever will courts of equity interpose
,in favor of mere volunteers, whether it be a voluntary contract,
or a covenant, or a settlement, however meritorious may be the
consideration, and although they stand in the relation of a wife
z
or child.
3d. That where a bill is brought by a person who is within
the scope of the marriage consideration, or claiming under them
there, courts of equity will decree a specific execution'throughout, as well in favor of mere volunteers as plaintiffs in the suit.
4th. That no persons are within the marriage consideration
but the husband and wife and their issues; that all others are
volunteers.
5th. That the complainants in that case (who occupied the
exact position that the complainants do in this case in relation
to the contract) were not entitled to the aid of a court of equity
to enforce the covenant in their favor.
6th. That although the contract under consideration made no
provision for the issue of the mariage, yet that did not aid the
case of the complainants; that they were still volunteers, and
as such, not entitled to the aid of a court of equity.
7th. That the decree rendered in the case of Catherine Neves
against Richard Rowell was not such a7 partial execution of the
marriage contract as would enure to the benefit of complainants, nor could said decree be invoked in their favor; and that
they were not entitled to the discovery and relief that they
sought.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This case came on to be heard at the December term, 1849,
and was argued by counsel. The decision of the court is reported in 9 How. 196, under the name of William Neves and
James C. Neves, appellants, v. William F. Scott and Richard
Rowell. At the present term, it was suggested to the court,
that at the time when the cause was argued and decided, Richard Rowell, the principal party defendant in interest, was dead;
and thereupon proceedings took place which made his repre.
sentatives parties, and the decree heretofore enteredwas stricken
out, the cause brought forward, and again heard at the present
term. It has been elaborately and ably argued upon the grounds

DECJEMBER TERM, 1851.

271

Neves et al. v. Scott et al.

on which it was rested at the former bearing, and upon one
additional ground, which will first be adverted to.
It appears that a short time before the former argument, the
Supreme Court of Georgia, where the marriage articles in question were made, and the parties thereto domiciled, in a suit between other persons claiming a separate interest under these
articles, had made a decision, involving an equitable title like
that passed on by this court. This decision was not made
known to us at the former hearing; and the respondent's counsel now maintains, that it is binding on this court, as an authoritative exposition of the local law of Georgia, by the highest
tribunal of that State.
To appreciate this position, it is necessary to ascertain what
questions have been decided by the Supreme Court of Georgia,
ad are for decision by this court.
By reference to the case in 9 How. 196, it will be found that
there were two questions presented to this court, either of which
being decided in favor of the complainant, would dispose of the
cause.
The first was, whether the trusts manifested by this particular
instrument, were w.hat a court of equity deems executed trusts, that
is, trusts actually defined and declared and in the view of a court
of equity created, or whether a court of equity would treat the
instrument-as only exhibiting an incomplete intention to create
some trusts at a then future period; and the second .being,
whether the complainants, as collateral heirs of one of the settlers, can have the aid of a court of equity, to enforce the deli, ery of the property to them, or are precluded from that relief, by
the fact that they are not issue of the marriage; in other teimns,
whether by the rules of equity law the complainants are volunteers, or within the consideration of the articles. No question
has arisen, concerning any statute law of Georgia; nor was it
then, nor is it now suggested, that any word, or phrase, or provision of the articles, should bear any peculiar, or technical
meaning, by reason of any local law, or custom. Indeed, the
actual intentions of the parties are so plain, that no doubt has
been suggested concerning them; and the only inquiry in either
court has been, how far, and in favor of what parties, a'court
of equity will lend its aid to carry those intentions into effect.
And, accordingly, the Supreme Court of Georgia, as well as this
court, has resorted to the decisions of'the High Court of Chancery in England, and to approved writers on equity jurisprudence, as affording the proper guides to a correct decision. If,
according to sound principles of the law of equity, a trrist existed, or the complainants have an equitable right to the specific
performance of an agreement to create a trust, then the relief is,
to be granted, otherwise it is to be refused.

272

SUPREME COURT.
Neves et al. v. Scott et al.

Such being the nature of the questiors, we do not consider
this cour bound by the decision of the Supreme Court of
Georgia. The Constitution provides, that thQ judicial power
of the United States shall extend to all cases in equity arising
between citizens of different States. Congress has duly conferred this power upon all 'Circuit Courts,. and among others
upon that of the District of Georgia, in which this bill was filed,
and the same power is granted by the Constitution to this court.
as an appellate tribunal.
Wherever a case in equity may arise and be determined, under
the judicial power of the United States, -the same principles of
equity must be applied to it, and it is for the courts of the
United States, and for this court in the last resort, to decide
what those principles are, and to apply such of them, to each
particular case, as they may find justly applicable thereto. These
principles may make part of the law of a State, or they may
have been modified by its legislation, or usages, or they may
never have existed in its jurisprudence. Instances of each kind
may now be found in the several States. But in all the States,
the equity law, recognized by the Constitution and by acts of
Congress, and modified by the latter, is administered by the
courts of the United States, and upon appeal by this court.
Such has long been the settled doctrine of this court, repeatedly and steadily affirmed in whatever form the question has
been presented. In The United States v. Howland, 4 Wheat.
115, Chief Justice Marshall said: "As the courts of the Union
have a chancery jurisdiction in every State, and the Judiciary
Act confers the same chancery powers on all, and gives the same
rule of decision, its jurisdiction in Massachusetts must be the
same as in other States." So Mr. Justice Story, in Boyle v.
Zacharie et al. 6 Pet. 658, says: "The. chancery 'jurisdiction
given by the Constitution and laws of the United States is the
same in all the States of the Union and the rules of decision are
the same in all." See also Robinson v. Campbell, 3 Wheat.
222; Livingston v- Story, 9 Pet. 654; Russell v. Southard, decided at the present term, and reported in 12 Howard, 139.
Bat while we do not consider this decision of the Supreme
Court of Georgia a binding authority, on which we have a right
to rest our decision, the respect we entertain for that learned and
able court, has led us to examine its opinion with great care;
and although we find it not consistent with some of the views
heretofore taken by us of one of the questions arising under this
marriage settlement, we do not find that the ground on which
our -decision was .actually rested was at all examined by that
learned court. That ground is, "That the deed in question is a
marriage settlement, complete in itself; aft executed trust, which

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

273

Neves et al. v. Scott et al.

requires only to be obeyed and fulfilled by those standing in the
relation of' trustees, for the benefit of the cestuis que trust, according to the provisions of the settlement." 9 How. 211. This
position does not appear to have been taken by the counsel for
the complainants in the Supreme Court of Georgia, nor is it
noticed by the court in its opinion; though it is conceded, in the
course of the opinion that while "courts of equity will not enforce a mere gratuitous gift, or a mere moral obligation or voluntary executory trust, it is otherwise. of- course, where the trust
is already vested."
On the former argument in this court we formed the opinion,
that the instrument in question did completely define and declare, and so did create, ceitain trusts; that they were, in the
sense of a court of equity, trusts executed; that the complainants were cestuis que trust; that the failure to interpose trustees
to hold the property created no difficulty, each party to the settleinent being regarded, so far as may be necessary to effectuate
their intent, as holding their several estates as trustees for the
uses of the sbttlement; and so the complainants were entitled
to the relief prayed.
We find nothing in the opinion of the Supreme Court of
Georgia in conflict with these views, because we do not find
they were there adverted to; and after cdnsidering the elaborate
and able argument of' the respondent's counsel at this term, we
remain satisfied of the correctness of our opinion, and judgment
must be entered accordingly.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Georgia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by ths
court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with
costs, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said Circuit Court for further proceedings to be had
therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

