KING v. PANTHER LUMBER COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

in a case recently decided: "In an action of .ejectment the
plaintiff must recover on the strength of his own title, and if
it appear that the legal title is in another, whether that other
be the defendant, the Commonwealth, or some third person,
it is sufficient to defeat the plaintiff. If it appears that the
title has been forfeited to the Commonwealth for the nonpayment of taxes, or other cause, and there is no evidence
that it has been redeemed by the owner, or resold, or regranted by the Commonwealth, the presumption is that the
title is still outstanding in the Commonwealth." iReusens v.
Lawson, 91 Virginia, 226.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States is
Afflrmed.

KING v. PANTHER LUMBER 'COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 240. Argued April 28, 1898. -Decided

May 81, 1898.

King v. Mfullins, ante, 404, followed.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maynard F. Stiles for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity by the appellant, a citizen of New
York, against the appellee, a corporation of West Virginia,
and one Kroll, a citizen of the latter State.

Its object was to

obtain a decree enjoining the defendant from cutting and removing timber from a certain tract of land in West Virginia,
of which the plaintiff King claimed to be the owner.
The defendant corporation denied the plaintiff's ownership
of the land, and asserted title in itself.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

The land in dispute is a part of a tract purporting to contain 500,000 acres, and which was patented in 1793 by the

Commonwealth of Virginia to -Robert Morris, assignee of
Wilson Cary Nicholas. It is the same patent which is referred
to in the opinion in King v. Mullins, just decided, ante, 404.
It appeared from the pleadings and exhibits in the cause
that the lands in controversy were not entered upon the proper
land books for taxation or charged with taxes for any year
from 1883 to 1895, inclusive.
The final order in the cause was in.
these words: "It having
been held by this court in the ease of 1T C. Eing v. H. B.
Mullins et als., recently tried in this court, the honorable Circuit Judge presiding, that such omission of said land from the
land books operated to forfeit and divest the title to said tract
of land and vest the same absolutely in the State of West Virginia, under the provisions of the constitution of said State,
before the -purchase of the same by complainant, and that
therefore complainant has no title to said land, the court is of
the opinion to dissolve said injunction, reserving the right to
render and file herein an opinion in writing upon said motion.
It is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said injunction be, and the same is hereby, dissolved, and that the
said bills be dismissed, and that the defendants recover of the
complainant their costs."
The controlling questions in this case are the same as those
decided in the case of Zing v. Mtullins, ante, 401. For the
reasons therein given, the judgment of the Circuit Court is

.Affrmed.

