OCTOBER TERM,- 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. MAISH.
AiPEAL FROM THE COURT OF'PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
'No. 29T. Argued March 15, 16, 1898. -Decided

May 91, 1M9S.

ME'y's Administratorv. United States, ante, 220, affirmed and followed.

opinion.
THE case is stated in the
.3fr. Rochester Ford and .r." James C. (arter for appellant.
Air. Special Assistant Reynolds for appellees.
tor General was on his brief.

HMr. Solici-

Mr. George Lines filed a brief on behalf of the Sopori Land
& Mining Company.
MR. $USTiE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case resembles that of Ely's Administrator v. United
States just decided, ante, 220. The proceedings for the sale
were had in 1820 and 1821 and before the same intendant.
We deem it unnecessary to add anything to what was stated
in that opinion as to- the law controlling. It is sufficient to
say that while the claim now made is for 46,696.2 acres, the
'application for purchase was for four sitios (17,353.84: acres).
All the proceedings contemplated a sale of only that amount
of land. Thus the appraisers stated that "from their examination, they said that each sitio should be valued at thirty
dollars, taking into consideration that none of them had running water or natural standing water, but that water facilities
might be obtained by means of a well." The first of the
three final auctions was reported in these words:
"In the city of Arizpe, on the 13th day of December, 1821,
there met as a board of auction the provisional intendant, as
president, and the other members that dompose it, to hold the
•first auction of the lands to which these proceedings refer,
and they caused the people to be assembled at this office by

UNITED STATES v. MAMSH3

243--

Opinion of the Court.

the beating of the drum, and many persons gathered at the
office of the intendant, when the auctioneer, Loreto Salcido,
in their presence was ordered to ask for a bid, which he did in
a loud and clear voice, saying: ' Here before this board of the
treasury are being sold four sitios of.public land for the raising of cattle situated at the place called San Ygnacio de la
Canoa, within the jurisdiction of the military post of Tubab,"
surveyed in favor of Tomas and Ygnacio Ortiz, residents of
that same town, and appraised in the sum of one hundred and
twenty dollars, being at.the rate of thirty dollars for each
sitio, it being necessary to dig a well to make the land useful.
Whosoever wishes to make a bid upon this land, let him come
forward and do so in the manner established by law before
this board, where his bid will be heard, notice being given
that the Rev. Father-Fray Juan Bano, minister of the mission
of San Xavier del Bac, in the name of Ygnacio Sanches and
Francisco Flores, resident citizens of the same town, had
bid for said land the amount of two hundred and ten dollars;
and with the understanding that on the third auction, which
is to take place on the day after to-morrow, the sale shall be
settled upon the highest bidder.' As no bidder appeared, the
board adjourned, and the minutes were signed by the president
and members of this board."
At the third auction a bid of two hundred and fifty dollars
was made, and on that bid the property was struck off to
Tomas and Ygnacio Ortiz, who subsequently paid into the
treasury the full amount of the purchase price with all charges.
Nothing seems to have been done on this purchase until 1849,
when title papers were issued by the substitute treasurer general of the state of Sonora.
Without repeating the discussion contained in the foregoing
opinion, we think that the grant should be sustained for the
four gitios purchased, 'petitioned- and paid for, 'and for no
more. As the grant was confirmed in toto, we are compelled
to order that the decree of the Court of Private Lana Claims
be
R1eversed, and the case remanded to te courtfor further
proceedings.

