"OOTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus

Confederate currency moneys previously received in tle like
kind of currency. The present case is governed by considerations that do not apply to that case. We do not doubt the
correctness of- the decision in Lamar v. kicou, upon its facts
as set out in the report of that case; but we hold, in the
present case, for the-reasons'we have stated, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia must be
Afflrmed.

KING v., 31dLLINS.
-ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 15 . Argued March 22, 23, 1898 -Decided

May 31,1898.

The system established by the State of West Virginia, under which lands
liable to taxation are forfeited to the State by reason of the owner not
having them placed or ciused to be placed, during five consecutive years,

on the proper land books for taxation, and caused htmielf to be charged
with-the taxes thereon, and under which, on petition required to be filed
by the representative of the State in the proper Circuit Court, such lands
are sold for the benefit of the school fund, with liberty to the owner,
upon due notice of the'proceeding, to intervene by petition and secure a
redemption of his lands from the- forfeiture declared by paying the
taxes and charges due upon them, is not inconsistent with the due process of -law required by the Constitutidn - of the United States or the
constitution of the-State.
As neither the'plaintiff nor those under whom he claims title availed themselves of the remedy provided by the statutes of West Virginia for
removing the-forfeiture arising from the fact that, during the years 1884,
1885, 1886, 1887 and 1888, the lands in question were'not charged on the
proper land books with the state taxes thereon for that period or any
part thereof, the forfeiture of such lands to the State was not displaced
or discharged, and the Circuit Court properly directed the jury to find a
verdict for the defendants. The plaintiff was entitled to recover only on
the strength of his own title. Whether the defendants had a good title
-or.not the plaintiff had no such interest in or claim to the lands as
enabled him to maintain this action of ejectment.
Reusens v: Lawson, 91 Virginia, 226, approved and- followed to the point
that "In an action of ejectment the plaintiff must recover on the strength
of his own title, and if it appear that the legaltitle is in afiother, whether
that other be the defendant, the Commonwealth, or some third person,

KING v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.
it is sufficient to defeat the plaintiff. If it appears that the title has been
forfeited to the Commonwealth for the non-payment of taxes, or other
cause, and there is no evidence that it has been redeemed by the owner,
or resold, or regranted by the Commonwealth, the presumption is that
the title is still outstanding in the Commonwealth."

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Yr. -MaynardF. Styles for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Z. T. Vinson and Mr. HoZmes Gonrad for defendants
in error.
.r. W. -E-Chiltom and .1r.. James E. Ferguson filed briefs
.
for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HABLA

delivered thre opinion of. the court.

This action of ejectment was brought to recover that part
lying in the State of West Virginia of a tract of 500,000 acres
of land patented by the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1795
to Robert Morris, assignee of Wilson Gary Nicholas.
The persons sued were very numerous, but M..B. Mullins,
Alexander McClintock and John McClintock having elected
to sever in their defence from other defendants, the case was
tried only as between them and the plaintiff King.
At the trial in the Circuit Court the plaintiff introduced in
evidence the patent to Morris showing that the lands therein
described were granted without conditions. Evidence was
also introduced tending to show that by sundry mesne conveyances and legislative and judicial proceedings the title of
Morris became vested, in 1866, in Robert Randall, trustee;
in John R. Reed, trustee, on the 29th day of June, 1886; and
through sundry mesne conveyances by Reed, trustee, David
W. Armstrong and John V. LeMoyne in the plaintiff King
on the 27th day of December, 1893.
The defendants resisted the claim of the plaintiff upon the
general ground that prior to the date of the deed from Le-.
Moyne,.the lands embraced in the patent were absolutely forfeited to the State, and were so forfeited when the present
action was instituted.

OCTOBER TERMK, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

To show an outstanding title in the State to the lands in
dispute by forfeiture, the defendants read in evidence a certificate of -the auditor of the State, dated -October 29, 1895,
showing that neither Randall, trustee, nor Reed, trustee, nor
LeMoyne, King, Armstrong and others named, had entered on
the land books of. Wyoming, McDowell, Logan, Boone or
Mingo counties, or either of them, for the years 1883, 1884,
1885, 1886, 1887, 1888, 1889, 1890, 1891, 1892, 1893 and 189,
or either of them, a tract of 500,000 acres of land, nor paid taxes upon the land for any of those years., The certificate
further stated that the tract of 500,000 acres was not entered
on the books of the assessor in any of those counties for any of
the years named; that no land was entered on the assessor's
book- in the name of any of said parties for any of those
years; and that none of the above persons are charged on the
land books with state taxes on any part of those lands.
We assume from the record that the greater part at least
of the' lands in West Virginia embraced in the Morris patent
are in the above-named counties.
The defendants, further to maintain the issues on their part,
offered in evidence 1. A certified copy of the order of the Circuit Court of
Wyoming County, West Virginia, (in which county part of
the original tract was situated,) showing the a.ppointment and
qualification, on the 18th day of April, 1890, of E. M. Seuter,
commissioner of school lands for that county.
. 2. Also the annual report made by that officer to the Circuit Court of Wyoming County, March 31, 1894, and filed,
of all trdcts and parcels of land liable to be sold for the
benefit of the"school fund, as required by section 5 of chapter
105 of the Code of West Virginia, as amended by the act of
the legislature of 1893, chapter 24. That report gives the list
of various tracts in the county of Wyoming "heretofore purchased for the State at sales thereof for delinquent taxes and
not redeemed within one year or within the time required by
law, made up from the records in the auditor's office and certified by the auditor to the clerk of the Circuit Court to be
sold by the commissioner of school lands." The report also

KING v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

states: "Said commissioner of school lands would further report that in the annual report of the commissioner of school
lands for the year 1889 there was reported for sale for the
benefit of the school fund 50,000 acres, forfeited in the name
of the Pittsburgh National Bank of Commerce, and sold
opi the -day
of for the non-payment of the taxes due
thereon for the years 1883 and 1884:, and purchased by the
State.
. The commissioner of the Circuit Court who was
appointed to report upon proceedings heretofore instituted to
sell the lands of said Pittsburgh National Bank of Commerce
and Smith and Fougeray reported them a part of 500,000
acre survey, Robert Morris patent, known as the ' Robert E.
Randall land,' and that a suit was pending in the Circuit or
District Court of the United States for the District of West
Virginia, and that proceedings to sell the same under said
fQrmal proceedings had been enjoined. Said commissioner is
advised that an error was made in said matter, and that no
suit was pending in said United States court with reference to
said 500,000 acre survey. The said commissioner of school
lands would further report that it has come to, his knowledge
from Henry C. King, the present owner and claimant thereof,
that a tract of 500,000 acres of land, lying partly in this
county and partly in the counties of Logan and McDowell,
and the greater portion in the States of Virginia and Kentucky, was at the April term, 1883, of the Circuit Court of
this county redeemed from a former forfeiture by Robert E.
Randall, trustee, and all the taxes thereon paid prior to and
including the year 1883; that since said redemption the said
land has been omitted from the land books of this county for'
five consecutive years, to wit, for the years 1881, 1885, 1886,
1887 and 1888, and thereby the same has been forfeited to
the State in the name of Robert E. Randall, trustee. The
said commissioner of school lands further reports that each of
gaid tracts hereinbefore mentioned are liable to be sold for
the benefit of the school ftnd of this State on account of the
forfeiture herein stated; all of which is respectfully submitted."
3. A certified copy of an order of the Circuit Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Logan County, West Virginia, made April 1, 1889, showing
the appointment of U. B. Buskirk as commissioner of school
lands of that county, and his annual report, as'such commissioner, of all tracts and parcels of land in Logan County
theretofore reported for sale, for the benefit of the 'school
fund to the clerk of the Circuit Court of that 'county under
sections I and 2 of chapter 105 of the Code of West Virginia,
and all lands in that county not theretofore reported, which
in his opinion were liable to sale for the benefit of that fund.
4. A certified copy of an order of the Circuit Court of
Logan County, West Virginia, ordering suit to be brought in
the name of the State for the sale of the lands mentioned in
the report of Commissioner Buskirk.
The defendants having rested their case, the plaintiff to
prove that no forfeiture of the land or outstanding- title
thereto existed or was claimed by the State of West Virginia,
and that there was no record of any forfeiture where the
same would be found if it existed,, introduced and read in
evidence a certificate of the auditor of the State, dated
October 30, i895, certifying that he had carefully examined
the record books of forfeited lands returned and kept in his
office, as required by law, for the counties of Logan, Mingo,
Wyoming and IMcDowell, West Virginia, from and including
the year 1883 to date, and there did not appear on such books
a tract of 500,000 acres of land, or any part thereof, or any
other tract forfeited for any cause in the name of either
Robert E. Randall, Robert E. Randall, trustee, A. D. Manpertures, John R. Reed, John R. Reed, trustee, John V. LeMoyne, David W. Armstrong, or Henry C. King; that there
'were no lands from any of those counties entered on the
record of forfeited lands of his office for either of those years,
in the name of either or any of those parties; that he had
carefully examined the record books of delinquent lands
returned and kept in his office, as required by law, for the
counties of'Logan, Mingo, Wyoming and McDowell, West
Virginia, from and including the year 1883 to date, and there
did not appear on such record books a tract of 500,000 acres
of land or any part thereof or any other tract delinquent for

KING v. MULLINS.
Opinion, of the Court.

any cause in the name of either Robert E. Randall, Robert
E. Randall, trustee, A. D. Maupertures, John R. Reed, John
R. Reed, trustee, John V. LeMoyne, David W. Armstrong or
Henry 0. King; and that there were .no lands from any of
those counties entered on the record of delinquent lands of
his office for either or any of those years in the name
of either or any of those'parties.
The plaintiff further offered evidence tending to prove that
all taxes of the State of West Virginia charged or chargeable
upon said tract of land up to and including the year 1883 had
been fully paid and discharged by Robert E. Randall, trustee,
under whoni plaintiff claimed title, and proved further that
plaintiff was a purchaser of said tract for a valuable consideration and without knowledge or notice of any alleged
forfeiture thereof or outstanding title thereto in West Virginia, or of any of the facts set out in the auditor's certificate,
shown and referred to in plaintiff's bill of exceptions; except
such notice as the land books and records duly kept disclosed.
At the instance of the defendants the court instructed the
jury "that the title to the land claimed by the plaintiff,
gralted to one Robert Morris by the Commonwealth of Virginia, by patent dated June 23, 1795, was (prior to the date
of the deed made by John V. LeMoyne to Henry C. King,
under which the plaintiff now claims), under the provisions of
the constitution of the State of West Virginia, forfeited to
and vested in said State, and was so forfeited at the time this
suit was instituted and that therefore the plaintiff took and
has no title to said land, and the jury are further instructed
to render a verdict in favor of the defendants."
To this instruction the plaintiff objected upon the ground
that the provisions of the constitution of West Virginia for
the forfeiture of lands were repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and to
Article 3, sections 4, 5, 9, 10, 20, and Article 5, section 1, of
the state constitution; and upon the further ground that if
there were a forfeiture of said land to and an outstanding title
in the State, such title could not be set up against the plaintiff in this action, he being a purchaser for value without

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

knowledge or notice of such forfeiture or of such outstanding
title.
The plaintiff's objection having been overruled, and a verdict having been rendered by direction of the court for the
defendants, judgment was -entered that the plaintiff take
nothing b5 his action.
The controlling quiestion in this case relates to the validity
under the Constitution of the United States of certain provisions in the constitution and statutes. of West Virginia for
the forfeiture of lands by reason of the failure of the owners
during a given period to have them placed upon the proper
land booksfor taxation.
The constitution of West Virginia provides that all private
rights and iterests in lands in that State derived from or
under the laws of Virginia, and from or under the constitution and laws of West Virginia prior to the time such constitution went into operation, should "remain valid and secure,
and shall be determined by the laws in force in Virginia prior
to the formation of this State, and'by the constitution and
laws in force in this State prior to the time this constitution
goes into effect." Art. XIII, § 1.
In view of this provision it is proper to look at the legislation of Virginia and the decisions of its highest court touching the forfeiture of lands for non-compliance by the owners
withthe requirements of the law relating to taxation.
By the first section of an act of the General Assembly of
Virginia, passed February 27, 1835, further time was given
until July 1, 1836, for the redemption of all lands and lots
theretofore returned as delinquent for the non-payment of
taxes, west of the Alleghany -Mountains,and which had become vested on the previous 1st day of October in the president and directors of the Literary Fund; saving the title of
any bonafide occupant claiming under a junior grant, whose
rights-were protected and secured inder prior legislation.
That act further provided:
"And whereas it is known to the general assembly that
many large tracts of lands lying west of the Alleghany Mountains which were granted by the Commonwealth before the

KMG v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

first day of April, 1831, never were, or have not been for many
years past, entered on the books of the commissioners of the
revenue where they respectively lie; by reason whereof no
forfeiture for the non-payment of taxes has occurred, or can
accrue, under the existing laws, the Commonwealth is defrauded of her just demands, and the settlement and improvement of the country is delayed and embarrassed; for remedy
whereof,
"2. Be it enacted, That each and every owner or proprietor
of any such tract or parcel of land shall, on or before the first
day of July, 1836, enter or cause to be entered on the books
of the commissioners of the revenue for. the county wherein
any such tract or parcel of land may lie, all such lands now
owned or claimed by him, her or them, through title derived
mediately or imrpediately under grants from the Commonwealth, and have the same charged with all taxes and damages in arrear, or properly chargeable thereon, and shall also
actually pay and satisfy all such taxes and damages which
would not have been relinquished and exonerated by the second section of the act concerning delinquent and forfeited
lands, passed March 10, 1832; had they been returned for
their delinquency prior to the passage of that act; and upon
their failure to do so, all such lands or parcels thereof not
now in the actual possession of such owner or proprietor by,
himself, or his tenant in possession, shall become forfeited to
the Commonwealth, after the 1st day of July, 1836, except
only as hereinafter excepted.
"3. That all right, title and interest which may hereafter
be vested in the Commonwealth by virtue of the provisions
of the section'of this act next preceding herein, shall be transferred and absolutely vested in any and every person or persons other than those for whose default the same have been
forfeited, their heirs or devisees, who are now in actual possession of said lands or any part or parcel of them, for so
much thereof as such person or persons have just title or
claim to, legal or equitable, bona fide claimed, held or derived
from or under any grant of the Commonwealth bearing date
previous to the 1st day of April, 1831, who shall have dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

charged all taxes duly assessed and charged against him, her or
them upon such lands, and all taxes that ought to have been
assessed and charged thereon from the time when he, she or
they acquired his, her or their title thereto, whether legal or
equitable; Provided,That nothing in this section contained
shall be so construed as to impair the right or title of any person
or persons who have obtdiined grants from the Commonwealth
for the same land and have regularly paid the taxes thereon,
but in all such cases the parties shall .be left to the strength of
their original titles." Laws Va. 1834-35, c. 13, pp. 11-13.
Other acts were passed in Virginia relating to delinquent
and forfeited lands and extending the time for redemption, all
of them proceeding upon the ground that the State had the
power to forfeit lands for failure to have them charged with
taxes as well as for failure to pay the taxes so- charged.
The first case in which the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia had occasion to pass upon the validity of the above
statute of 1835, s6 far as it forfeited lands which the owner
failed to have put on the proper land bboks and pay taxes
upon, was Staat's Lessee v. Board, 10 Gratt. 400, 402, decided
in 1853. That court said: "It further seefis to the court
that, as by the act of March 23, 183q, Sess. -Acts, p. T, time
was allowed from the 1st day of November, 1836, for all persons to cause their omitted lands to be entered with the
commissioner of the revenue, and to pay the taxes thereon,
in the manner prescribed in the second section of the act of
February 27, 1835, the forfeiture became absolute from and
after the 1st of November, 1836. That the provision of the
act of March 30, 1837, giving time for redemption until the
15th of January, 1838, did not release the forfeitures which
had accrued, except in such cases where the owner or proprietor availed himself of the privilege of redeeming. And it
further seems to the court that such forfeiture became absolute-and complete by the failure to enter and pay the 'taxes
thereon in the manner prescribed by-the act of 27th of February, 1835. And no inquisition or judicialproceedings or
inquest, or jinding of any kind, was required to consummate
such for'feiture."

KING v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

The same principle was announced in Wild's Lessee v. Serpel, 10 Gratt. 405,'408 (1853). The court said: "That the
provisions of our statutes passed frorii time to time, making it
the duty of the owners of lands to pay all taxes properly
chargeable thereon, and, where they have been omitted from
the books of the commissioners of the revenue, to cause them
to be entered thereon in the proper counties, and to be
charged with all arrearages of taxes and damages, and to pay
all such arrearages as shall be found not to be released by
law, and, in case of failure so to do, forfeiting to the Commonwealth all right and title whatever of the parties in
default, (under the modifications and restrictions provided by
the acts,) are within the constitutional competency of the
legislature, has been sufficiently affirhned in decisions which
have been made during the presen t term of this court in
cases arising under these several statutes: Staat's Lessee v.
Board, 10 Gratt. 400; Smith's Lessee v. Nhapman, 10 Gratt.
445. The same cases also sufficiently establish that in order
to consummate and perfect a forfeiture in such: a case, no judgnient or decree or other matter of record, nor any inquest of
office, is necessary; but that the statutes themselves, of their
own force and by their own energy, work out their own purpose, and operate effectually to divest the title out of the
defaulting owner, and perfectly to vest it in the Commonwealth, without the machinery of any proceeding of record, or
anything in the nature of an inquest of office. And as the title
is thus in a proper case divested out of the owner and vested
in the Commonwealth by the operation of the statutes, so
where the forfeiture enures to the benefit of a third person,
claiming under the Commonwealth by virtue of another and
distinct right, the transfer of the title .tosuch person is, in like
manner, perfect and complete without any new grant from
the Commonwealth, or any proceeding to manifest the transfer by matter of record or otherwise. Upon these subjects I
have nothing therefore to say upon this occasion, except that
considering the peculiar condition of things in that part of the
State lying west of the Alleghany Mountains, and the serious
check to population and the improvement of the country

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

and the development of its xesources growing out of it, a
resort to the stringent measures of legislation that were
adopted was, in my opinion, as wise and expedient as the constitutional powers of the legislature to enact them was clear
and unquestionable." This case was cited in Armstrong v.
.Morrill, 14 Wall. 120, 134, which was an action of ejectment
brought prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, and in which therefore the rights of the parties must have been determined without reference to the prohibition in that amendment against
the deprivation of property without due process of law.
In .Levasser v. Washburn, 11 Gratt. 572, 580-581, (1854) it
was said: "According to the decisions of this court in the
cases just referred to, and also in the cases of 'Mild v. Serpell,
10 Gratt. 405, and Smith's Lessee v. Chapman, 10 Gratt. 445,
the Circuit Court also erred in its opinion as to the time at
which the forfeiture under the Girond grant occurred or became complete. It appears to have proceeded on" the notion
that some inquest of office, or decree, or other proceeding
should have been had in order to declare and perfect the for-.
feiture. Nothing of the kind was necessary. .The act of the
27th of February, 1835, Sess. Acts, p. 11, declaring that lands
which had been omitted from the books of the commissioners of
the revenue should be forfeited unless the owners should cause
the same to be entered and charged with taxes, and should pay
the same, except such as might be released by law, was intended
by its own force and energy to render the forfeiture -absolute
and complete, without the necessity of any inquisition,judicial
proceeding or finding of any kind, in order to consummate it.
It was perfectly within the competency of the legislature to declare such forfeiture and divest the title by the mere operation
of the act itse6f; and the whole legislation upon the subject of
delinquent and forfeited lands plainly manifests the intention
to.exercise'its power in this form." See also Usher's Heirs v.
Pride, 15 Gratt. 190, and Smith v. Tharp, 17 Gratt. 221:
In this connection it may be well to refer to .Martinv.
Snowden, 18 Gratt. 100, 135-136, 139-140, (1868) in which
the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia had occasion to

KING v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

determine, as between the parties before it, the effect of the
provisions in the acts of Congress of August 5, 1861, 12 Stat.
292, c. 45, and June T,1862, 12 Stat. 422, c. 98, relating to the
direct taxation of lands. By the latter act it was provided
that "the title of, in and to each and every piece or parcel of
land upon which said tax has not been paid as above provided,
shall thereupon become forfeited to the United States," and that
"upon the sale hereinafter provided for, shall vest in the
United States or in the purchasers at such sale, in fee simple,
free and discharged from all prior liens, incumbrances, right,
title and claim whatsoever." § 4. One of the questions presented in that case was, whether the first of the clauses just
quoted worked, proprio vigore, a transfer to the United States
of the title to the land declared to be forfeited. The court
held that the acts of Congress did not and were not intended
to create such a forfeiture of the land to the United States as
that it ceased ijpo facto to be the property of the former
owner and became the absolute property of the United States;
that Congress was without constitutional power to impose the
penalty.of forfeiture of lands for the n.on-payment of taxes;
that Congress had all the powers for enforcing the collection
of its taxes that were in use by the Crown in England, or
were in use by the States at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution, but forfeiture of the land assessed with the tax
was not then in use, either in England or the States, as a mode
of collecting the ta. Referring to Murray'sLessee v. Hfobocen
Land and Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, the state court
further said: "Can a forfeiture of the land charged with
taxes, such as is contended for in these cases, be regarded as
' due process of law,' upon the principles established by that
caseI Literally speaking, it is not any process at all, but
operates by force of law and without any process or proceeding
whatever, except the ascertainment by the commissioners of
the sum chargeable on the land. But that is probably immaterial. The forfeiture of land to the Crown does not appear
to have been a means recognized and employed ift England at
any period of its history for enforcing the payment of taxes
or other debts to the Crown. If it had been, we should have

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

found such'forfeitures treated of in the English law books; but
we nowhere find them mentioned." Again: "These references
will show-what were the ordinary inethods of enforcing the
payment of taxes in use in Virginia about the time of the
adoption of the constitution. Aid it may be worth mentioning, that before the adoption of the Constitution of the United
States the legislature of Virginia had reenacted the provision
of Mvagna Charta, that no freeman shall be taken or imprisoned, or be deprived of his freehold or liberties or free
customs, or beoutlawed or exiled, or any otherwise destroyed,
nor shall the Commonwealth pass upon him nor condemn him,
but by the lawful judgment of his peers, or by the law of the
land. 12 Hening's St. at L. c. 81, p. 186. Looking at the spirit
which animated all this legislation, we cannot doubt as to
what would have been thought, at that day, of a statute
declaring an immediate and absolute forfeiture of the whole
land as a penalty for the non-payment of the tax within sixty
days after the, assessment of it, withoud notice to the owner,
by advertisement or otherwise, of the assessment, and without
any, even th least, effort to collect it."
The case of Iartin v. Snowden was brought here and is reported under thetitle of Bennett v. Hunter, 9 Wall. 326, 335337, (1869). This court did not deem it necessary in that case
to decide whether the United States could constitutionally
take to itself the absolute title to lands merely because of the
non-payment of taxes thereon within a prescribed time, and
without some proceeding equivalent to office found. Speaking
by Chief Justice Chase, it said: " We are first to consider
whether the first clause of this section, proprio vigore, worked
a transfer to the United States of the land, declared to be forfeited. The counsel for the plaintiff in error have insisted
earnestly that such was its effect. But it must be remembered
that the primary object of the act was, undoubtedly, revenue,
to be raised by collection of taxes assessed ,upon lands. It is
true that a different purpose appears to have dictated the provisions relating to redemption after sale, and to the disposition of the lands purchased by the government; a policy
which had reference to the suppression of xebellion rather

KING v. MULLIMS.
Opinion of the Court.

than to revenue. But this purpose did not affect the operation of the act befbre sale, for until sale actually made there
could be, properly, no redemption. The assessment of the tax
merely created a lien on the land, which might be discharged
by the payment of the debt. And it seems unreasonable to
give to the act, considered as a rev'enue measure, a construction which would defeat the right of the owner to pay the
amount assessed and relieve his lands from the lien. The
first clause of the act, therefore, is not to be considered as
w6rking an actual transferof the land to the United States,
if a more liberal construction: can be given to it consistently
with its terms. Now, the-generalprincipes of the law offorfeiture seenz to be incon8istent wit/t such a transfer. Without
pausing to inquire whether, in any case, the title of a citizen
to his land can be divested by forfeiture and vested absolutely
in the United States, without any inquisitionof record or some
public transaction equivalent to office, found, it iscertainly
prbper to assume that an act of sovereignty so highly penal
is not to be inferred from language capable of any milder construction. Fairfax's Devisee v. Hunter's Lessee, ' Crarich,
625. In the case of lands forfeited by alienage the king could
not acquire an interest in the lands except by inquest of.
office. 3 Bl. Com. 258. And so of other instances where the
title of the sovereign was derived from forfeiture.". Again :
"Applying these principles to the case in hand, it seems quite
clear that the first clause of the fourth section was not intended by Congress to have the effect *attributed to it, independently of the secon.d clause. It does not direct the
possession and appropriation of the land. It was designed.
rather, as we.think, to declare the ground of the forfeiture of
title, namely, non-payment of taxes, while the second clause
was intended to -work the actual investment of the title
through a public act of the government in the United States,
or in the purchaser at the tax sale. The sale &as the public
act, which is the, equivalent of office found. What precededthe sale was merely preliminary, and, independently of the
sale, worked no divestiture .of title. The title, indeed, was
forfeited by non-payment of 'the tax; in other words, it beVOL. cLxxI-27

OCTOBER TERMA, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

came subject to be vested in the United States, and, upon
public sale, became actually vested in the United States or in.
any other purchaser; but not before such public sale. It follows that in the case before us the title remained in the tenant
for life with remainder to the defendant* in error, at least
until sale; though forfeited, in the sense just stated, to the
United States."
We now come to an examination of the West Virginia constitution and statutory, provisions relating to the forfeiture to
the State of lands subject to taxation.
By Article XIII of -the constitution of West Virginia
of
1872 it was provided:
"4. All lands in this State, waste and unappropriated, or
heretofore or hereafter for any cause forfeited, or treated as
forfeited, or escheated to the State of Virginia or this State,
or purchased by either and become irredeemable, not redeemed, released, transferred or otherwise disposed of, the
title whereto shall remain in this State till such sale as is hereinafter mentioned be made, shall by proceedings in the Circuit
Court of the county in which -the lands or a part thereof, are
situated, be sold to the highest bidder.
"5. The former owner of any such land shall be entitled to
receive the excess of the sum for which the land may be sold
over the taxes charged and chargeable thereon, or which, if
the land had not been forfeited, would have been charged or
chargeable thereon, -since the formation of this State, with
interest at the rate of twelve per centum per annum, and the
costs of the proceedings, if his claim be filed in the Circuit
Court that decrees the sale, within two years thereafter.
:' 6. It shall be the duty of every owner of land to have it
entered on the land books of tbe county in which it, or a
part of it, is situated, and to cause himself to be charged with
the taxes thereon, and pay the same.- When for anyfive successive years after the year 1869 the owner of any tract of land
containing one thousand acres or more shall not have been
charged on such books With state tax on said land, then by
operationhereof the land shall beforfeited and the title thereto
vest in the State. But if, for any one or more of such five

KING v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

years the owner shall have bee-d charged with a state tax on
any part of the land, such part thereof shall not be forfeited
for such cause. And any owner of land so forfeited, or of any
interest therein at the time of the forfeiture thereof, Who shall
then be an infant, married woman or insane person, may, until
the expiration of three years after the removal of such disability, have the land, or such interest charged, on such books,
with all state and other taxes that shall be, and but for the
forfeiture would be, chargeable on the land or interest therein
for the year 1863, and every year thereafter with interest at
the rate of ten per centum per annum; and pay all taxes and
interest thereon for all such years, arid thereby redeem the
land or interest therein: P'ovided,Such right to redeem shall
in no case extend beyond twenty years from the time such land
was forfeited." The duty imposed upon owners of land by
the first clause of this section was also prescribed by the
statutes of the State.
Such being the provisions of 'the constitution of West Virginia in relation to the forfeiture of lands, the Supreme Court
of Appeals of that State had occasion in Afclure v.-Maitland,
24 W. Va. 561, 575-578, to determine their scope and effect.
In that case it was said: "In the year 1831, as we have endeavored to show in a former part of this opinion, the land
titles in that portion of the Commonwealth of Virginia now
embraced within this State were in a most wretched and em•barrassed condition. Many owners of large tracts, covering
in some cases almost entire counties, would neither pay their
taxes nor settle and improve their lands, thus paralyzing the
energy and contravening the prosperity of the people and the
advancement and population of the State to an almost inconceivable extent. Ii this emergency and to remedy this calamitous evil, the general assembly of Virginia inaugurated
the system of delinquent and forfeiture laws that form the
basis of the provisions of our present constitution on that subject. The whole history of that system shows a most earnest
and determined effort on the part of the legislature, the judiciary and the people, speaking through our present constitution, to destroy and annihilate the titles of such. delinquent

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

owners, who should, after every reasonable opportunity had
been given them to comply with the laws, continue in default,
and to protect actual settlers and these not in default. The
purpose of the statutes passed to enforce this system was not
merely to create a lien for the taxes on these delinquent and
unoccupied lands, but to effect by their own force and vigor an
absoluteforfeiture of them and efectually vest the title thereto
in the State without the machinery of any proceeding of record
or anything in the nature of an inquest of offee. Such was.
intended to be and such was in fact the efect of these statutes.
The constitutional competency of the legislature to pass these
laws and thus consummate the forfeiture-and perfectly divest
all the right, title and interest of the former owner by the
mere energy and operation of the statutes themselves, has been
repeatedly affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Virginia"citing Staats v. Board, 10 Gratt. 400; Wild v. Serpell, 10
Gratt. 405; Levasser v. Washburni 11 Gratt. 572; Usher v.
Pride, 15 Gratt. 190 and Smith v. Tharp, 17 W. Va. 221.
So in Coal Co. v. Howell, 36 W. Va. 489, 501, the court referred to its former decisions, above cited, and after observing
that they had been adhered to with only a seeming exception,
said: "The forfeitures became complete and absolute by
operation of law -in the case of delinquent lan ds on the 1st
day of October, 1834, and in the case of omitted lands on November 1, 1836, and no inquisition or judicial proceeding or
inquest or fnding of any kind was required to consummate
such forfeiture."
Now, the plaintiff contends that the provision in. the constitution of West Virginia-which forfeits and vests absolutely
in the State without inquisition of record, or some public
transaction equivalent to office found, the title to lands which
for five successive Years after 1869 have not been charged
with state taxes on the land books of the proper county, is
repugnant to the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States declaring that no State
shall deprive any person of his property without due process
of law.
In support of this contention numerous authorities have

KING v. HULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

been cited by the plaintiff, those most directly in point being
Griffin v. 1fixon, 38 Miississippi, 424, (1860) and fflarshall v.
HaDcaniel, 12 Bush, 378, 382-5, (1876). In the first, of those
cases, the High Court of Errors and Appeals of IMississippi,
speaking by Judge Harris, held a statute of that State declaring the forfeiture of lands on the failure simply of the
owner to pay the taxes due thereon, without notice or hearing in any form, to be in violation of the constitutional provisions prohibiting the taking of private property for public
use without just compensation being first made therefor, or
the deprivation of property without due process of law. In
the other case, the Court of Appeals of Kentucky held to be
unconstitutional a provision in a statute of that State declaring "that in all cases where any lands shall hereafter be forfeited for failing to list for, taxation, or stricken off to the
State, the title of such lands shall vest in this Commonwealth
by virtue of this act without any inquest of office found,
unless said land shall have been redeemed according to law."
That court, speaking by Chief Justice Lindsay, said: "In
pursuing this inquiry we need not call in question the power
of the legislature to provide for the levy and collection of
taxes in the most summary manner. The right of the Commonwealth, through its executive and ministerial officers, to
assess property for taxation, to ascertain the sum payable by
each taxpayer, and to seize and sell his property in satisfaction of such sum, is not open to doubt. It is equally clear the
legislature may impose upon the taxpayer the duty of listing
his property for taxation, and may prescribe, for the neglect
of the duty so imposed, penalties reaching even to the forfeiture of the estate not listed. But when such laws are enacted,
the forfeitures prescribed must be regarded as penalties, and
they cannot be inflicted until inquiry has first been made and
the commission of the offence ascertained by 'due course of
law.'
'To enjoin what shall be done or what left
undone, and to secure obedience to the injunction by appropriate penalties, belongs exclusively to legislation. To ascertain
a violation of such injunction and inflict the penalty belongs
to the judicial function.' Gaines v. Buford, 1 Dana, 481.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of. tte Court.

By the Magna Charta it is declared that no citizen shall be
disseized of his freehold or be condemned but by the lawful
judgment of his peers or by the law of the land. The substance of this declaration is contained in our Bill of Rights.
Its meaning and intention is that no man shall be deprived of
his property without being first heard in his own defence.
We conclude without hesitation that so much of the
act of 1825 as provided that for a mere failure to list lands
for taxation the title should be forfeited, and should ipsofacto,
without inquiry or trial, and without opportunity to the party
supposed to be in default, even to manifest his innQcence, be
vested in the Commonwealth, is unconstitutional and void."
The question of constitutional law thus presented is one of
unusual gravity. On the one hand, it must not be forgotten
that the clause of the National Constitution which this court
is now asked to interpret is a part of the supreme law of the
land, and that it must be given full'force and effect throughout the entire Union. The due process of law enjoined by
the Fourteenth Amendment must mean the same thing in all
the States. On the other hand, a decision of this court declaring that that amendment forbids a State, by force alone
of its constitution or statutes, and without inquisition or
inquiry in any form, to take to itself the absolute title to
lands of the citizen because of his failure to put them on
record for taxation, or to pay the taxes thereon, might greatly
disturb the land titles of two States under a system which
has long been upheld and enforoed by their respective legislatures and courts. Under these circumstances, our duty is
not to go beyond what is necessary to the decision of the
particular case before us. : If the rights -of the parties in this
case can be fully determined without passing upon the general question whether the clause of the West Virginia constitution in question, alone considered,is consistent with the
national Constitution, that question may properly be left for
examination until it arises in some case in which it must be
decided.
We come then to. inquire whether, looking at the constitution and the statutes of West Virginia together, a remedy

KLNG v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

was not provided which, if pursued, furnished to the plaintiff
and those under whom he asserts title all the opportunity
that "due process of law" required in order to vindicate any
rights that he or they had in respect of the lands in question.
We have seen that the lands embraced by the patent to
Robert Morris weie not put upon the land books of the proper
counties during the years 1883 to 1894, both inclusive. They,
were redeemed in 1883 from forfeiture by Randall, trustee,
in whom, as we take it, the title was at that time vested.
Let it be assumed that they were again forfeited to the State
upon the expiration of the five consecutive years after 1883
during which they were not placed on the land books for
taxation; in other words, that for that reason they were
forfeited to the State after the year 1888. What, at the time
of such forfeiture, were the rights of the owner? Did the
statutes of the State give him any remedy whereby he could
be relieved from such forfeiture? Was he denied all opportunity to hold the lands upon terms just and reasonable both
to him and the State?
We pass by the act of November 18, 1873, providing for the
sale of escheated, forfeited and unappropriated lands for the
benefit of the school fund, act of W. Va. 1872-73, p. 449, c.
131, and also, for the present, the act of March 25, 1882, on
the same subject, acts of W. Va. 1882, p. 253, c. 95, because
both of those acts are amendatory of the Code of West Virginia, and their provisions, so far as they directly or indirectlk
bear upon the present controversy, are preserved and extended
in the Code published in 1887, which contained the law of
the State in reference to forfeited lands as it was at that
time.
From Chapter 105 of the Code of West Virginia, published
in 1887, it appears that all lands forfeited to the State for the
failure to have the same entered upon the land books of the
proper county and charged with the taxes thereon, as provided by law -so far as the title thereof was not vested in
junior grantees or claimants under the provisions of the
constitution and laws of the State- were required to be
sold for the benefit of the school fund- the auditor to certify

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion, of the Court.

to the clerk of the Circuit Court a list of all such lands (which,
or the greater part of which, were in his county), within sixty
days after the title, thereto vested in the State. That act
made it the duty of the commissioner of school lands to file
his petition in the Circuit Court and pray for the sale of the
lands for the benefit of the school fund. lHe was required
to state in his petition "all the tracts, lots and parts and
parcels of any tract or lot of land, so liable to sale, in the
Circuit Court 'of his cbunty, praying that the same be sold
for the benefit of the school fund" and, according to the best
of his information and belief, "the local situation, quantity
or supposed quantity, and probable value of each tract, lot
or parcel, and part of a tract of land herein mentioned, together with all the facts at his command, in relation to the
title to the same, and to each tract, lot, part or parcel thereof,
the claimantor claimantsthereof,and their residence, if known,
and, if not known, that fact shall be stated, and stating also
how and when and in whose name every such tract, lot and
parcel, and part of a tract or lot, was forfeited to the State."
Provision was made for the reference of the petition to a commissioner in chancery, "with instructions to inquire into and
report upon the matters and things therein contained, and
such others as the court may think proper to direct, and particularly to inquire and report as to the amount of taxes and
interest due and unpaid on each tract, lot and parcel, and
part of a tract or lot of land mentioned in the petition, in
whose name. it was forfeited, and when and how forfeited,
in whom the legal title was at the time of the forfeiture, and
if more than one person claimed adverse titles thereto at the
date of the forfeiture, the name of each of such claimants
and a reference to the deed book or books in which the title
papers of any claimant thereof can be found; what portion
or portions, if any, of such lands is claimed by any person or
persons under the provisions of section three of article thirteen of the constitution of this State, with the names of such
claimants and the amount claimed by each as far as he can
ascertain the same." If there were no "exception to this
report, or if there were any which were overruled, "the court

KING v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

shall confirm the same ancd decree a sale of the lands, or any
part of them, therein mentioned, which are subject to sale,
for the benefit of the school fund, upon such terms and conditions, as to the court may seem right and proper; and in
any decree of sale made under this chapter, the court may
provide that the commissioner of school lands, or other person,
appointed commissioner to make such sale, may receive bids
for such lands, without any notice of sale; and if the
former owner or owners, or person in whose name the
land was returned delinquent, and forfeited, or the heirs or
grantee of such owner or person, or any person or persons,
holding a valid subsisting lien thereon, at the time of such
forfeiture, bid a sum sufficient to satisfy such decree and the
costs of the proceeding and sale, and such person or persons,
so bidding, be the highest bidder, said commissioner shall sell
the land on such bid, and report the same to the court for
confirmation; but if the commissioner receive no bid from any
such person, or if he shall receive a higher bid therefor, from
any other person, not so mentioned, then, and in either event,
the said commissioner shall sell the land, at public auction to
the highest bidder, after first giving such notice, as may be
provided by such decree." By the same act it was provided:
"The former owner of any such land shall be entitled to
recover the excess of the sum for which the land may be sold
over the taxes charged and chargeable thereon, or which, if
the land had not been forfeited, would have been charged
or chargeable thereon, since the formation of this State, with
interest at the rate of twelve per centum per annum and the
costs of the proceedings, if hig claim be filed in the Circuit
Court that decrees the sale, within two years thereafter, as
provided in the next succeeding section."
But the part of Chapter 105 of the Code which has the most
direct bearing on the question under consideration is section
14, which after providing that the owner may, upon his petition to the Circait Court, obtain an order for the payment to
himself of the excess just mentioned, proceeds: "At any time
during the pendency of the proceedings for the sale of any such
land as hereinabove mentioned, such former owner, or any

OCTOBER TERf, 1897".
Opinion of the Court.

creditor of such former owner of such land, having a lien
thereon, may file his petition in said Circuit Court as hereinbefore provided, and asking to be allowed to redeem suchpart
or parts of any tract of land so forfeited, or the whole thereof,
as he may desire, and upon such proof being. made as would
entitle the petitioner to the excess of purchase money hereinbefore mentioned, such court may allow him to redeem the
whole of such tract if he desire to redeem the whole, or such
part or parts thereof, as he may desire, less than the whole,
upon the payment into court, or to the commissioner of
school lands, all costs, taxes and interest due thereon, as provided in this chapter, if he desire to redeem the whole of such
tract; or if he desire to redeem less than the whole of such
tract, upon the payment, as aforesaid, of so much of the costs,
taxes and interest due on such tract as will be a due proportion
thereof for the quantity so redeemed. But if the petition be
for the redemption of a less quantity than the whole of such
tract, it shall be accompanied with a plat and certificate of
survey of the part or parts thereof sought to be redeemed.
Whenever it shall satisfactorily appear that, the petitioner is
entitled to redeem such tract, or any part or parts thereof, the
court shall make an order showing the sum paid in order to
redeem the whole tract or the part or parts thereof which the
petitioner desires to redeem, and declaring the tract, or partor
parts thereof,redeemedfrom suchfofeiture, so far as the title
thereto was in the State immediately before the date of such
order; which order, when so made, shall operate as a release
of such fofeiture so far as the State isconcerned, and of all.
former taxes on said tract, or part or parts thereof so redeemed,
and no sale thereof shall be made. If the redemption be of a
part or parts of a tract, the plat or plats and certificate of the
survey thereof hereinbefore mentioned, together with a copy
of the order allowing the redemption, shall.be recorded in a
deed book in the office of the clerk of the county court. Pro-'
vided, That such payment and redemption shall in no way
affect or impair the title to any portion of such land transferred to and vesteb in any person, as provided in section three
of article thirteen of the constitution of this State."

=G

v. MULLINS.

Opinion of the Court.

It thus appears that when the lands in question and othiers
embraced in the Morris patent were, as is contended, forfeited
to the State for the failure of the owner during the five consecutive years after they were redeemed by Randall, trustee,
in 1883, to have them entered upon the land books of the
proper county and dharged with the taxes thereon, it was provided by the statutes of West Virginia:
That all lands thus forfeited to the State should be sold for
the benefit of the school fund;
That the sale should be sought by petition filed by the commissioner of school lands in the proper Circuit Court, to which
proceeding all claimants should be made parties, and be
brought inby personal service of summons upon all found in the
county, or by publication as to those who could not be found;
That the petition should be referred to a commissioner in
chancery, who should report upon the same and upon such
other things as the court might direct, and particularly as to
the amount of taxes due and unpaid upon any lands mentioned
in the petition, in whose name and when and how forfeited, and
in whom the legal title was at the time of the forfeiture;
That if there were no exceptions to the report, or if there
were exceptions which were overruled, the court was .required
to confirm the same and decree a sale of the lands for the
benefit of the school fund ; and,
That at any time during the pendency of the proceedings
instituted for the sale of forfeited lands for the beiiefit of the
sQhool fund, the owner, or any creditor of the owner having a
lien theteon, might file his petition in the Circuit Court of the
county for the redemption of his lands upon the payment into
court, or to the commissioner of school lands, of all costs, .taxes
and interest due thereon, and obtain a decree or order declaring the lands redeemed so far as the title thereto was in the
State immediately before the date of such order.
These provisions were substantially preserved in Chapter 105
as amended and reenacted in 1891 and 1893. Code of West
Va. 1891, p. 731; acts of West Va. 1893, p. 57. But in the
Code of 1891, act of March 12, 1891, will be found this addi-.
tional and important provision, Acts 1891, c. 91:

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"§ 18. In every such suit brought under the provisions of
this chapter, the-court shall have full jurisdiction, power and
authority to hear, try and determine all questions of title, possession and boundary which may arise therein, as well as any
and all conflicting claims whatever to the real estate in question
arising therein. And the court, in its discretion, may at any
time, regardless of the evidence, if any, already taken therein,
direct an issue to be made up and tried at its bar as to any
question, matter or thing arising therein, which, in the opinion
of the court, is proper to be tried by a jury. And if any such
issue be as to the question of title, possession or boundary of the
land in question, or any part of it, it shall be tried and determined in all respects as if such issue was made u-p in an action
pending in such court. And every such issue shall be proceeded
in, and the trial thereof shall bb governed by the law and
practice applicable to the trial of an issue out of chancery;
anl the court may grant a new trial therein as in other cases
tried by a jury." And this provision was preserved, substantially, in the act of 1893, amendatory of Chapter 105 of the
Code of West Virginia.
If, as contended, the State, without an inquisition or proceeding of some kind declaring a forfeiture of lands for failure
during a named period to list them for taxation, and by force
alone of its constitution or statutes, could not take the absolute title to such lands, still it was in its power by legislation
to provide, as it did, a mode in which the attempted forfeiture
or liability to forfeiture could be removed and the owner
enabled to retain the full possession of and title to his lands.
We should therefore look to the constitution and statutes of
the State together for the purpose of ascertaining whether

the system of taxation established by-the State was, in its es-

sential features, consistent with due process of law. If, in
addition to the provisions contained in the constitution, that
instrument had itself provided for the sale of forfeited lands
for the benefit of the school fund, but reserved the right to
the owner, before sale and within a reasonable period, to pay
the taxes and charges due thereon, and thereby relieve his land
from forfeiture, we do not suppose that such a system would

KING v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

be held to be inconsistent with due process of law. If this
be true it would seem to follow necessarily that if the statutes
of the State, in connection with the constitution, gave the
taxpayer reasonable opportunity to protect his lands against
a forfeiture arising from 'hs failure to place them upon the
land books, there is'no ground for him to complain that his
property has been taken -without due process of law.
Mfuch of the argument on behalf of the plaintiff proceeds
upon the erroneous theory that all the principles involved in
due process of law as applied to proceedings strictly judicial
in their nature apply equally to proceedings for the collection
of public revenue by taxation.. On the contrary, it is well
settled that very summary remedies may be used in the collection of taxes that could not be applied in cases of a judicial
character. This 'subject was fully considered in -Murray's
.Lessee v. Hoboken Land and Improvement Co., 18 How. 272,
280, 281, 282, which arose under the act of Congress of Mtay
15, 1820, providing for the better organization of the Treasury
Department. The account of a collector of customs having
been audited by the first auditor and certified by the first
comptroller- of the Treasury, a distress warrant for the
balance found to be due was issued by the solicitor of the
Treasury, in accordance with the act of Congress, and levied
upon the lands of the collector. The question presented was
whether sucha proceeding was consistent with due process
of law -the objection to. it being that it was judicial in its
nature and that it operated to deprive the debtor of his property without a bearing or trialby jury and without due process of law. This court said, among other things: "Tested
by the common and statute law of England prior to the emigration of our ancestors and by the laws of many of the
States at the time of the adoption of this amendment, the
proceedings authorized-by the .act of 1820 cannot be denied
to be due prodess of law when applied to the ascertainment
and recovery of balances due to the Governiment from a collector of customs, unless there exists in the constitution some
other provision which restrains Congress from authorizing
such proceedings. ForI though 'due process of law' generally

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

implies and includes actor, reus, judex, regular allegations,
opportunity to answer, and a trial according to some settled
course of judicial proceedings, 2 Inst. 47, 50;
ifoke
v. lendermon, 4 Dev. N. C.Rep. 115;. Taylor v. Porter,4 Hill, 140,
146; Van Zandt v. Waddel, 2 Yerger, 260; State Bank v.
Cooper, 2 Yerger, 599; Jones's Heirs v.. Perry, 10 Yerger,
59 ; Greene v. Briggs, 1 Curtis, 311, yet, this is not universally
true. There may be, and we have seen that there are cases,
under the law of England after Magna Charta, and as it was
brought-to this country and acted on here, in which process,
in its nature final, issues against the body, lands and goods of
certain public debtors without any such trial; and this brings
us to the question, whether those provisions of the Constitution which relate to the judicial power are incompatible with
these proceedings." Again: "The power to collect and disburse revenue, and to make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying that power into effect, includes -all
known and appropriate means of effectually collecting and
disbursing that revenue, unless some such means should be
forbidden in some other part of the Constitution. The power
has not been exhausted by the receipt of the money by the
collector. Its purposb is to raise money and use it in payment of the debts of the government; and, whoever may
have possession of the public money, until it is actually disbursed, the power to use those kn6wn and .appropriate means
to secure its due application continues. As we have already
shown, the means provided by the act of 1820 do not differ
in principle from those employed in England from remote
antiquity- and in many of the States, so far as we know,
without objection -for this purpose, at the time the Constitution was formed. It may be added, that probably there
are few governments which do or can permit their claims for
public taxes, either on the citizen or the officer employed for
their collection or disbursement, to become subjects of judicial controversy, according to the course of the law of the
land. Imperative necessity has forced a distinction between
such claims and all others, which has sometimes been carried
out by summary methods of proceeding and sometimes by

KlNG v.' MULLINS.
Opinion of 'the Court.

systems of fines and penalties, but always in some way observed and yielded to." In BeIP8 Gap Rail'oad v. Pe.nnsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 239, it was said that "the process of
taxation does not require the same kind of notice as is required in a suit at law, or even in proceedings for taking priIt
vate property under the power of eminent domain.
involves no violation of -due process of law when it is executed according to customary forms and established usages,
or in subordination to the principles which underlie them."
This must be so, else the existence of government might be
put in peril by the delays attendant upon formal judicial
proceedings for the collection of taxes.
In this connection reference may be made to what was saidby the Supreme Court of Appeals in .MAClwre v. Maitland,
above cited, touching the rights of the owner of lands forfeited
to the State, and for the sale of which proceedings were instituted by the commissioner of school lands. That court said:
"The title to the land and all the right and interest of the
former owner having thus by jhis default and the operation of
the law become absolutely vested in the State and become
irredeemable, she, having thus acquired a perfect title to, and
unqualified dominion over, the land, had the undoubted right
to hold or dispose of it for any proper purpose, in any manner
and upon any terms and conditions she might in her sovereign
capacity deem proper, without consulting the former owner
or any one else. For after the forfeiture had become complete, as it had in the case before us, the former owner had
no more claim to or lien upon the land than one who never
had pretended to own it. In the exercise of this perfect
dominion over her own property the State saw proper to
transfer and vest her title to so much of said land owned by
her, in any person, other than those who occasioned the default, as such person may have been in the actual possession
of, or have just title to, claiming the same and was not in default for the taxes thereon chargeable to him. . . . The
laws, as we have shown, by their own force, transferred to
and vested the title to the land absolutely in the State without any judicial inquiry or inquest of any kind. There could,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

therefore, be no necessity or reason for proceeding in 'em
against the land. That had already become the absolute
property of the State, and she had a perfect right to sell it
without further inquiry. All the laws providing for the sale
of these lands presuppose the title to have vested in the State
prior to the commencement of the proceedings. In fact the
whole authority of the commissioner and the jurisdiction of
the cdurt are based upon the assumption that the unconditional title is in the State; for unless such is the fact neither
has any authority to act. Twiggs v. Chevallie, 4 W. Va. 463.
And all the right, title and interest of the former owner having been completely divested, he has not a particle of interest
in the land-no more than if he had never owned it; there
is, therefore, no possible reason for making him a party or
proceeding against him in personam or otherwise. The proceeding is of necessity, then, neither in rem nor in perso~iam
and as all judicial proceedings properly so styled must belong
to either the one or the other of these classes, it follows that
this -is not and cannot be in any technical sense a judicial
proceeding."
It is said that this shows that the taxpayer, after his land is
forfeited to the State,'is left by the statutes of West Virginia
without any right or opportunity, by any form of judicial
proceeding, to get it back or to prevent its sale, and, therefore,
it is argued, he is absolutely diested of his lands solely by
reason of his failure to place them on the proper land books.
An answer to this view is, that what was said in IkicMiure
v., .4aitland,on this point, had reference to proceedings under
the act of November 18, 1873, acts 1872-73, p. 449, c. 134,
which were not judicial in their nature but administrative.
But as declared in Bays, Commissioner, v. Camden's Heirs, 38
W. Ya. 109, 110, the act of 1873 was so amended by the act
of March 25, 1882, acts W. Va. 1882, p. 253, c' 95, as to make
the proceeding in the Circuit Court for the sale. of forfeited
lands, in which the owners or claimants could intervene and
effect a redemption of their lands from forfeiture, a judicial
proceeding. This view was reaffirmed in Wiant v. flays,
Commissioner, 38 W. Va. 681, 684, in which Judge Brannon,

KING v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

delivering the unanimous judgment of the state court, observed that what was said in McClure v. Maitland as to the
landowner not being entitled of right to be made a party to
the proceeding instituted for the sale of forfeited lands for the
benefit of the school funds, had reference to the then existing
act which was changed by the act of 1882. Answering. the
suggestion that the proceedings under the new law were not
judicial, the court said: "Now, why, with parties plaintiff
and defendant, process, pleading, hearing between the parties,
decree, etc., it is not, if not technically a chancery suit, yet a
suit, I cannot see; a suit under a special statute, it is true, but
none the less a suit. So, substantially, it was regarded in
iHays v. Camden's Heirs, 38 W. Va. 109, 18 S. E. Rep. 461.
Proceedings at rules take place as in ordinary and common
law suits. In some places it is called a 'suit.' But I know
that it is said by those holding the other view that the question is not tobe tested by the circumstances, such as I have
alluded to, the presence of pleading, process, hearing, etc., but
it must be tested by the nature of the proceeding; that is,
that it is only an administrative process by the State, through
an officer and court, to realize money on its own property.
But to this I reply that though the State might make the
proceeding such, and did in its acts up to 1882 yet by its act
in 1882 it changed the proceeding from one ex part to one
inter vartes, and clothed the proceeding with all the habiliments of a suit; and still it did not proceed against the land,
taking the act of forfeiture as a concession, and simply at
once sell the land, but it subjected its right and title under
the supposed forfeiture to question and investigation under
the law through a suit, called in all interested adversely to
its claim, and gave them leave to contest its right, and made
its claim the subject of litigation."
It thus appears that under the statutes of West Virginia in
force after 1882 the owner of the forfeited lands had the right
to become. a party to a judicial proceeding, of which he was
entitled to notice, and in which the court had authority to
relieve him, upon terms that were reasonable, from the forfeiture of his lands.
VOL. CLXXI-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

It is said that the landowner will be without remedy if
the commissioner of the school fund should fail to institute
the proceeding in which the statute permitted such owner to
intervene by petition and obtain a redemption of his lands
from the forfeiture claimed by the State. It cannot be assumed that the commissioner will neglect to discharge a duty
expressly imposed upon him by law, nor that the courts are
without power to compel him to act, where his action becomes
necessary for the protection of the rights of the landowner.
It is further said that a forfeiture may arise under the constitution of West Virginia despite any effort of the landowner
to prevent it; that although the owner may direct his lands
to be entered on the proper land books, and that he be
charged with the taxes due thereon, the custodian of such
books may neglect to perform his duty. Thus, it is argued,
the lands may be forfeited by reason of the landowner not
having been, in fact, charged on the land books with the
taxes due from him, although he was not responsible for such
neglect. We do not so interpret the state constitution or the
statutes enacted under it. If the landowner does all that is
reasonably in his power to have his lands entered upon the
land books and to cause himself to be charged with taxes
thereon, no forfeiture can arise from the owner not having
been "charged on such books" with the state tax. The State
could not acquire any title to the lands merely through the
neglect of its agent having custody or control of its land books.
Any steps attempted to be taken by, the officers of the State,
based upon such neglect of its agent- the taxpayer not being
in default -would be without legal sanction, and could be
restrained by any court having jurisdiction in the premises.
We go further and say, that any sale had under the statute
providing for a sale, under the order of court, for the benefit
of the school fund, of lands alleged to be forfeited by reason
of their not having been charged on the land books for five
consecutive years with the state tax due thereon, would be
absolutely void, if the landowner was not before the court,
or had not been duly notified of the proceedings, but had
done all -that he could reasonably do to have his lands en-

KING v. MULLINS.
Opinion of the Court.

tered on the proper books and to cause himself .to be charged
with the taxes due thereon. If the State was not entitled to
treat them as forfeited lands, that fact could be shown in the

proceeding instituted for their sale as lands of.-that character,
and the rights of the owner fully protected. In the present
.case, it does not appear that any evidence was offered tending
to show that the absence from the land books of any charge
of taxes on the lands claimed by the plaintiff during five consecutive years after their redemption 'by Randall, trustee, in
1883 was due to any neglect of the officers of the Stafe, or
that the plaintiff, or those under whom he asserts title, entered or attempted to enter the lands upon the land books,
or that he or they caused or attempted to cause the lands to
'be charged with taxes thereon. But there was evidence tending to show that the requirements of the constitution were
not met during any of the years from 1883 to the bringing of
this action. So far as the record discloses, it is a case of sheer
neglect upoft the part of the landowner to perform the duty
required of him by the constitution and statutes of the State.
Another point made by the plaintiff in error is, that the
provision of the constitution of Virginia exempting tracts of
less than one thousand acres from forfeiture is a discrimination against the owners of tracts containing one thousand
acres or more, which amounts to a denial to citizens or landowners of the latter class of the equal protection of the laws.
We do not concur in this view. The evil intended to be remedied by the constitution and laws of West Virginia was the
persistent failure of those who owned or claimed to own large
tracts of lands, patented in the last century, or early in the
present century, to put them on the land books, so that the
extent and boundaries of such tracts could be easily ascertained by the officers charged with the duty of assessing and
collecting taxes. Where the tract was a small one, the probability was that it was actually occupied by gome one, and its
extent or boundary could be readily-ascertained for purposes
of assessment and taxation. We can well understand why,
one policy could be properly adopted as to large tracts which
the necessities of the public revenue did not require to be pre-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1897.
Opinion of the'Court.

scribed .as to small tracts. The judiciaiy should .be very reluctant to interfere with the taxing systems of a State, and
should never do so unless that which the State attempts to
do is in palpable violation of the constitutional rights of the
owners of property. Under this view of our duty, we are
unwilling to hold that the provision referred to is repugnant
to the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment forbidding a
denial of the. equal protection of the laws.
For the reasons stated, we hold that the system established
by West Virginia, under which lands liable to taxation are forfeited to the State by reason of the owner not having them"
placed or caused to be placed, during five consecutive years,
on the proper land books for taxation, and caused himself to be"
charged with the taxes thereon, and under which, on petition
required to be filed by the representative of the State in the
proper Circuit Court, such lands are sold for the benefit of
the school fund, with liberty to the owner, upon due notice of
the proceeding, to intervene by petition and secure a redemption of his lands from the forfeiture declared by paying the
taxes and charges due upon them, is not inconsistent with the
due process of law required by the Constitution of the United
States or the constitution of the State.
Having discussed all the points suggested by the assignments
of error which we deem it necessary to examine, we conclude
this opinion by saying that as neither the plaintiff nor those
under *whomhe claims title availed themselves of the remedy
provided by the statutes of West Virginia for removing the
forfeiture arising, from the fact that, during the years 1884,
1885, 1886., 1887 and 1888, the lands in question were not
charged on the proper land books with the state taxes thereon
for that period or any part thereof, the forfeiture of such .lands
to the State was not displaced or discharged, and the Circuit
Court properly directed the jury to find a verdict for the defendants. The plaintiff was entitled to recover only on the
strength of his own title. Whether the defendants had a good
title or not the plaintiff had no such interest in or claim to the
lands as enabled him to maintain this action of ejectment. We
concur in what the Suprem6 Court of Appeals of Virginia said

KING v. PANTHER LUMBER COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

in a case recently decided: "In an action of .ejectment the
plaintiff must recover on the strength of his own title, and if
it appear that the legal title is in another, whether that other
be the defendant, the Commonwealth, or some third person,
it is sufficient to defeat the plaintiff. If it appears that the
title has been forfeited to the Commonwealth for the nonpayment of taxes, or other cause, and there is no evidence
that it has been redeemed by the owner, or resold, or regranted by the Commonwealth, the presumption is that the
title is still outstanding in the Commonwealth." iReusens v.
Lawson, 91 Virginia, 226.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States is
Afflrmed.

KING v. PANTHER LUMBER 'COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 240. Argued April 28, 1898. -Decided

May 81, 1898.

King v. Mfullins, ante, 404, followed.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maynard F. Stiles for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity by the appellant, a citizen of New
York, against the appellee, a corporation of West Virginia,
and one Kroll, a citizen of the latter State.

Its object was to

obtain a decree enjoining the defendant from cutting and removing timber from a certain tract of land in West Virginia,
of which the plaintiff King claimed to be the owner.
The defendant corporation denied the plaintiff's ownership
of the land, and asserted title in itself.

