CALIFORNIA NATIONAL BANK v. STATELER.

447

Statement of the Case.

CALIFORNIA NATIONAL BANK v. STATELER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 87.

Submitted May 4, 189S. -Decded

October 17, 1898.

This case Is dismissed because the judgment below was not a final judgment; the settled rule being that if a superior court makes a decree fixing the liability and rights of the parties, and refers the case to a master
or subordinate court for a judicial purpose, such, for instance, as a statement of account upon which a further decree is to be entered, the decree
is not final.

TIns was an intervening petition by Stateler in the case
just decided, of the California .National Bank v. Thoma8
(ante, .441), to obtain the possession of the sum of $2t,500 paid
to the plaintiff Chetwood by the defendants Thompson and
Wilson in the settlement of the suit of Chetwood against them
as co-defendants with Thomas.
Pending the insolvency and winding-up prdceedings of the
California National Bank, and subsequent to the appointment
of a receiver by -the Comptroller of the Currency, the. petitioner Stateler was elected "agent" by the stockholders pursuant to the act of Congress of August 3, 1892, c. 360, 27
Stat. 3415. As this act provided that the person so elected
agent "shall hold, control and dispose of the assets and
property of such association which he may receive under the
terms hereof, for the benefit of the shareholders of such association," Stateler applied by affidavit to the Superior Court of
the city and county of San Francisco, in which the Chetwood
action was then pending, for an order upon the plaintiff Chetwood to appear and show cause why the moneys collected of
Thompson and Wilson, as well as certain stock and other securities, should not be turned over to the affiant as such agent.
The motion was opposed upon the ground that of the whole
number of 2000 shares, 1020 shares only were voted to elect
Stateler as agent of the bank, and that they were either
owned or controlled by Richard P. Thomas, the former president, against whom there was a judgment outstanding in

OCTOBER TERM, f898.
Opinion of the Court.

favor of the stockholders in the amount of $139,419, besides
an unpaid assessment of $20,000, levied upon him as a stockholder by the Comptroller of the Currency.
Upon affidavits read at the hearing of the motion the court
denied the order prayed for, whereupon Stateler appealed to
the Supreme Court of the State. That court held that the
regularity of the appointment of the agent could not be questioned in a proceeding of this kind, inasmuch as it had been
approved by the Comptroller of the Currency, and that the
agent's demand to have the money paid over to him should
have been granted. The court thereupon reversed the order
"with directions to the trial court to enter the order prayed
for, after making reasonable allowance to the plaintiff Chetwood for his costs, disbursements and attorney's fees in said
action as contemplated by law." An application for a hearing in banc was made and denied by the Supreme Court,
whereupon the bank and Chetwood, as representative stockholder, and the party upon whom the order was made, sued
out a writ of error from this court, which the defendants in
error moved to dismiss.
-Mr. William 3f. Piers'on,.Mr.
Robert Brent Afitchell and
.Mr.Roobert A. Friedrichfor the motion.
.3k'. 2obert Rae and .Mr. E. G. KYnapp opposing.
Mr. JUSTICE BROwN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Motion is made to dismiss this writ of error upon the ground
that no Federal question is involved in the case.
Without, however, expressing an opinion upon this, we
think the case will have to be dismissed upon the ground that
the order appealed from is not a final order within the decisions of this court. The affidavit of Stateler, which is the
basis of this proceeding, sets forth not only the payment of
$27,500 in cash by Thompson and Wilson, but avers upon
information and belief that there was also transferred to the

CALIFORNIA. NATIONAL BANK v. STATELER.

449

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff, by said defendants, a large block 'of stock belonging
to them in the California National Bank, which is the property of its stockholders, and the prayer is for an order turning
over to the petitioner the moneys above mentioned and "all
stock and other securities of every sort, nature and description,
received by him from defendants Thompson and Wilson in
this action."
-While the opinion of the court deals only with the moneys
paid by Thompson and Wilson, the order appealed from
directs the trial court to enter the order *prayedfor "after
making reasonable allowances to the plaintiff Chetwood for.
his costs, disbursements and attorney's fees in said action as
contemplated by law." This order lacks finality in two particulars. It would still be competent to prove that Chetwood
had received the block of stock set up in Stateler's affidavit,
and it would certainly be necessary for Chetwood to prove up
his costs, disbursements and attorney's fees before the amount
for which he is ultimately made liable could be ascertained.
The settled rule is that if a superior court makes a decree
fixing the liability and rights of the parties, and refers the
case to a master or subordinate court for a judicial purpose,
such, for instance, as a statement of account upon which a
further decree is to be entered, the decree is not final. Craighead v. Wilson, 18 How. 199 ; Beebe v. Russell, 19 How. 283 ;
Keystone -Manganese & Iron Co. v. -Martin, 132 U. S. 91;
Iodge v. Twell, 135 U. S. 232 ; AtecGourkey v. Toledo and Ohio
Central Railway, 146 U. S. 536; -UnionMutual Life Ins. Co.
v. Kirchof, 160 U. S. 374; Rollander v. .Fechleimer, 162
U. S. 326.
The writ of error is, therefore, dismissed.
VOL. cLxxi-29

