TINSLEY v. ANDERSON.
Counsel for Parties.

TINSLEY v. ANDERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS FOR THE STATE
OF TEXAS.
Nos. 632, 033. Argued May 5, 6, 1$98. -Decided

May 81, 1893.

The appellate jurisdiction of this court from a state court extends to a final
judgment or decree it. any suit, civil or criminal, in the highest court of
a State where a decision in the suit could be had, against a title, right,
privilege or immunity, specially set up and claimed under the Constitution or a treaty or statute of the United States.
If the order of the Court of Criminal Appeals of the State of Texas, being
the highest court of the State having jurisdiction of the case, dismissing the writ of habeas corpus issued by one of its judges, and remanding the prisoner to custody, denied to him any right specially set up
and claimed by him under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United
States, it is reviewable by this court on writ of error.
The right to equal protection of the laws Is not denied by a state court
when it is apparent that the same law or course of procedure would be
applied to any other person in the state uuder similar circumstances
and conditions.
When the committing court has jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of
the person, and power to make the order for disobedience to which a
judgment in contempt is rendered, and to render that judgment, then
the appellate court cannot do otherwise than discharge a writ of habeas
copus brought to review that judgment, and secure the prisoner's discharge, as that writ cannot be availed of as a writ of error or appeal.
It was colnpetent for the District Cburt to compel the surrender of the
minute book and notes in Tinsley's possession, and he could not be discharged on habeas corpus until he-had performed, or offered to perform
so much of the order as it was within the power of the District Court to
impose, even though it may have been in some part invalid.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jame8 .. .Bi8op for appellant and plaintiff in error.
Mr. Presley E. Ewing for appellee and defendant in error.
Mr. Hfeny F. Ring was on his brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
The object of both these proceedings is to obtain the discharge of Thomas Tinsley from imprisonment under an order
committing him for contempt, under the following circumstances:
On April 23, 1896, upon a petition for the appointment of a
receiver of the Houston Cemetery Company, a corporation of
Texas, filed against the corporation, and against Tinsley, who
was its president, and the other officers of the corporation,
both as such officers and individually, by some, in behalf of
all, of the owners of lots in the cemetery, the District Court of
the county of Harris in the State of Texas made an order appointing a receiver of all th property of the corporation, and,
requiring each of its officers, upon demand of the receiver, to
deliver to him any books, papers, money or property, or
vouchers for property, within their control, to which the corporation was entitled. Upon 'appeal by Tinsley and the other
defendants from that order it was affirmed, on May 21, 1896,
by the Court of Civil Appeals of the State. 36 Southwestern
Rep. 802.
On February 2, 1897, the receiver made a motion to the District Court to commit Tinsley for contempt in refusing to deliver to the receiver a minute book, promissory notes of the
amount of $1440.50, and a trust fund, amounting to $492.52,
belonging to the corporation. A rule to show cause was issued,
in answer to which Tinsley averred that the notes and the
minute book had been delivered by the corporation tQ him as
collateral security for money advanced by him to the corporation, and- that he had made, at the expense to himself of
$T.70, an investment of the trust fund in securities which"he
had offered, and was still ready, to deliver to the receiver
upon payment of this sum.
On February 6, 1897, the District Court, after taking evidence and hearing the parties, adjudged that Tinsley was
guilty of a contempt in disobeying its former order by not
delivering to the receiver the minute book, notes and trust

TINSLEY v. ANDERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

fund, being the property of the corporation and in his control;
and ordered him to pay to the sheriff a fine of $100, and to
deliver to the receiver the property aforesaid, and to be committed until he should pay the fine and should (being allowed
by the sheriff reasonable opportunity to do so if he should so
desire) deliver the property to the receiver, or until he should
be discharged by further order of the court. And upon the
same day he was accordingly committed to the county jail.
On March 17, 1897, he presented to the judge of the District
Court a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, setting forth the
above proceedings, and alleging that the judgment and commitment for contempt were void, and his detention under them
illegal for these reasons: That his claim to the notes, minute
book and trust fund was made in good faith, and that he had
the right thereto until deprived thereof by due course of law,
and that the proceedings on said motion and said judgment
are not due process of law, and that he ought not and cannot
be by such proceedings imprisoned or compelled to turn over
said property and things, for that thereby he is deprived of a
trial by due course of law; that -the judgment and commitment were uncertain and indefinite, and did not limit the time
of his confinement under them; -that the statute of the State
provided that the District Court should not have the power to
imprison any .person for a longer period than three days for a.
contempt; and that the matters set up in said motion and
judgment did not and could not constitute a contempt. This
petition for a writ of habeas corpus was denied by the judge
of the District Court; but on April 2, 1897, was granted by the
presiding judge of the Court of Criminal Appeals of the State
of Texas, and a writ of habeas corpus issued, addressed to the
sheriff, who, on April 8, returned that he held the prisoner
under the corihmitment for contempt.
After full arguments by both parties, the Court of Criminal
Appeals entered judgment, dismissing the writ of habeas
corpu8, and remanding him to the custody of the sheriff, on
the ground that the order of commitment for contempt was
within the power of the District Court, at least so far as concerned the notes and minute book, because Tinsley was a

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

party to the suit in which the receiver was appointed, and
claimed no title, other than by way of lien, in the notes and
minute book, and such lien, if genuinei would be preserved to
him against the property in the hands of the receiver. 40
Southwestern Reporter, 306.
On April 26, 1897, Tinsley filed a motion to set aside that
judgment and for a rehearing which, after further written
arguments in his behalf, was overruled on May 12, 1897.
On May 15, 1897, upon a petition alleging that by the order
of commitment, he "is deprived of his liberty, and will be, if
he submits to the order, of his property, without due process
of law, in violation of the Constitution of the United States,"
he obtained from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District .of Texas a writ of habeas cotpus to the
sheriff, which, after a hearing, was by the judgment of tliat
court dismissed and the prisoner remanded to custody; and
on January 21, 1898, he appealed from that judgment- to this
couit.
On January 31, 1898, he sued out a writ of error from this
court to review the judgment of the Court of Criminal Appeals
of the State of Texas, and filed in that court an assignment
of errors, one of which was that by the proceedings in that
court "he was deprived of his liberty, and, if he submitted to
the order of the trial court, would be deprived of his property
without due process of law, in violation of the Constitution
of the United States and the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments thereto."
The two cases now before us are the appeal from the
judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States, and the
writ of error to the Court of Criminal Appeals of the State of
Texas.
The dismissal by the Circuit Court of the United States of
its own writ of habeas cor2pus was in accordance with the rule,
repeatedly laid down by this court, that the Circuit Courts
of the United States, while they have power to grant writs of
habeas corpus for the purpose of inquiring into the cause of
restraint of liberty of any person in custody under the authority of a State in violation of the Constitution, a law or. a

TINSLEY v. ANDERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

treaty of the United States, yet, except in cases of peculiar
urgency, ought not to exercise that jurisdiction by a discharge
of the person in advance of a final determination of his case
in the courts. of the State, and, even after such final determination, will leave him to his remedy to review it by writ of error
from this court. Ex parte 1?oyall, 117 U. S. 241 ; E p arte
Fonda, 117 U. S. 516; In 'e Frederich,149 U. S. 70; Pepke
v. Cronan, 155 U. S. 100; Bergernanm, v. Backer 157 U. S.
655 ; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 231 ; Baker v. Grice,
169 U. S. 284. This case shows no such circumstances as to
require departure from this rule.
It was argued in behalf of Tinsley that the judgment committing him for contempt was not reviewable by this court;
Aiting the statement in (Chetwood's case, 165 U. S.443, 462,
that "judgments in proceedings in contempt are not reviewable here. on appeal or error, Ilayes v. Fischer,102 U1.S.121;
In re Debs, 458 U. S.564, 573, and 159 U. S.251." But that
statement was made in regard to such judgments in independent proceedings for contempt in the Circuit Courts of the
United States, and the reason is, as in cases referred to in
Hayes v. Fischer above cited, that such judgments were considered as judgments in criminal cases, in. which this court
had no appellate jurisdiction from those courts. Ex yarte
Eearney, 7 Wheat. 38, 42; 2iVew Orleansv. Steainsh p Cornyany, 20 Wall. 387, 392.
But the appellate jurisdiction of this court from the state
court extends to a final judgment or decree in any suit, civil or
criminal, in the highest court of a State where a decision in
the suit could be-had, against a title, right, privilege or immunity, specially set up and claimed under the Constitution or a
treaty or statute of the United States. Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
Consequently, if the order of the Court of Criminal Appeals
of the State of Texas, being the highest court of the State
having jurisdiction of the case, dismissing the writ of habeas
co7pUs issued by one of its judges, and remanding the prisoner.
to custody, denied to him any right specially set up and
claimed by him under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States, it is doubtless reviewable by this court on writ

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of error. ffewport Zight Cbmpany v. Newport, 151 U. S. 527,
542; Pepke v. Cronar, 155 U. S..100, 101.
We perceive no reason for holding that any such rights
were denied by the judgment of the Court of Criminal Appeals, in view of the facts appearing in the record and the
grounds on which that court proceeded as disclosed by its
opinion.
Counsel asserts that the rights claimed under the Constitution of the United States were the right to due process of law,
and the right to the equal protection of the laws.
The right to the equal protection of the laws was certainly
not dnied, for it is apparent that the same law or course of
procedure, which was applied to Tinsley, would have been applied to any other person in the State of Texas, under similar circumstances and conditions; and there is nothing in the
record on which to base an inference to the contrary.
Was the right to due process of law denied ? If the committing court had jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and of
the person, and power to make the order for disobedience to
which the judgment in contempt was rendered, and to render
that judgment, then the Court of Criminal Appeals could not
do otherwise than discharge the writ of habeas corpus and remand the petitioner. The writ cannot be availed of as a writ
of error or an appeal, and if the commitment was not void,
petitioner was not deprived of his liberty without due process
of law.
The District Court of Harris County, Texas, was a court of
general jurisdiction, and had jurisdiction in the suit against
the Cemetery Company and its officers, including Tinsley, who
was not a stranger, but a party, to the litigation, after hearing
had on due notice and appearance by the defendants, to enter
the order appointing a receiver and directing the company's
officers to deliver to him, on his demand therefor, the company's prpperty in their custody, including the books, notes
and moneys on hand, and to determine on the facts that Tinsley was in contempt in refusing to deliver such property, and
assuredly to adjudge this as to so much of the property as
he conceded belonged to the company, but the possession of

TINSLEY v. ANDERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

which he claimed the right to retain only iftorder to enforce
an alleged lien.
The Court of Criminal Appeals held that as Tinsley did not
claim the legal title in tne notes and in the minute book, but
merely an equity or lien thereon to secure his debt; as the
order to turn over 'the property to the receiver was by no
means an adjudication as to his lien, which if it was a genuine
lien would be preserved to him in the hands of the receiver;
and as the effect of the order was merely to place the articles
in the hands of the receiver for administration under the
orders of the court; the District Court unquestionably had
the lower to make the order as .to these articles, and did not
exceed its jurisdiction in so doing. So that even though the
$492.52 was not a trust fund in his bands, as the District
Court had decided, but a mere debt due from him, because,as he alleged, that sum had been taken by another, and he
had simply agreed to make it good, the adjudication of the
District Court was nevertheless sustainable apart from that
item.
. We concur in the view that it was undoubtedly competent
for the District Court to compel the surrender of the minute
book and notes, in Tinsley's possession, and thht he could not
be discharged on habeas corpus until he had perforrihed or
offered to perform so much of the order, as it was within the
power of the District Court to impose, even though it may
have been in some part invalid. &[ re Siwan, 150" T. S. 637.
-The other objections suggested require no special consideration. It is said that the imprisonment for contempt was limited by the state statute to three days, Art. 1120, Tex. Rev.
Stats., but the state court held that that statute had reference
to a quasi criminal contempt as a punishment, and not to a
civil contempt where the authority of the court is exercised
by way of compelling obedience. IRapalje on Contempts,
ยง 21. This is not a Federal question, and we accept the ruling of the state court in its construction of the statute. It
is urged that the order of commitment imposed an uncertain
and indefinite term of imprisonment; but the order was that
Tinsley should be confined until he complied, and the addition,

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Argument for the Motion.

"or until he shall be discharged by the further order of the
court," was merely intended to retain the power to- discharge
him if the court should thereafter conclude to do so, it being
within his own power to obtain his discharge at any time by
obeying the order. 'Nor is there any force in the objection
that no trial by jury was awarded, for such trial was not demanded, and a jury trial is- not necessary to due process of
law on an inquiry for contempt. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.
90; Eilenbecker v. Plymouth County District Court, 13-1
U.-S. 31; Rapaije on Contempts, ยง 112.
The judgments of the Circuit Court and of the Court of
Criminal Appeals are, severally,

.Aflirmed.

CENTRAL NATIONAL BANK v. STEVENS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Motion to amend mandate.

Submitted May 9, 1898.

Decided May 31, 1898.

The motion to amend the mandate is denied.

THIS was a motion toamend the mandate in this case which
issued on the judgment reported in 169 U. S. 432. The motion
was as follows:
"Come now the defendants in error and move the court
that the annexed mandate be amended so as to command that
the judgment below be reversed only in the particulars described in the opinion of the court."
Mr.Edward Winslow Paige for the motion.
It is the opinion of the counsel who signs this brief that it
is decidedly for the interest of the defendants in error that
the motion be denied.
And for'the following rea~ons:
The whole judgment being reversed, there must inevitably under the laws of New York be a new trial of the

