OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

THOMPSON

: MISSOURI.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURL
No. 623. Submitted April 21, 1898.-

Decided May 31, 1898.

The act of the legislature of Missouri of April 8, 1895, Missouri Laws 1895,
page 284, providing that "comparison of a disputed writing with any
writing proved to the satisfaction of the judge to be genuine shall be
permitted to be made by witnesses, and such writings and the evidence
of witnesses respecting the same may be submitted to the court and jury
as evidence of the genuineness or otherwise of the writing in dispute,"
is not ex post facto, under the Constitution'of the United States, wheft
applied to prosecutions for crimes committed prior to its passage.
THE case is

stated in the opinion.

-Ml'. Charles F. Joy and M'. MAfarion C. Early for plaintiff
inerror.
.r.

Edward C. Crow for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTIbE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The record suggests many questions of law, but the only
one that may be considered by this court is whether the proceedings against the plaintiff in error were consistent with the
provision in the Constitution of the United States forbidding
the States from passing ep postfacto laws.
Thompson was indicted in the St. Louis Criminal Court at
its November term 1894: for the murder, in the first degree, of
one Joseph 11. Cunningham, a sexton at one of the churches
in the city of St. Louis. Having been tried and convicted of
the offence charged, he prosecuted an appeal to the S preme
Court of Missouri, and by that court the judgment was
reversed and a new trial was ordered. State v. i'homyson.
132 Missouri, 301. At the second trial the accused was again
convicted; and a new trial having been denied, he prosecuted
another appeal to the Supreme Court of the State. That
court affirmed the last judgment, and the present appeal

THOMPSON v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

brings that judgment before us for reexamination.

State v.

Thompson, 42 S. W. Rep. (Missouri) 949.
The evidence against the accused was entirely circumstantial in its nature. One of the issues of fact was as to the
authorship of a certain prescription for strychnine, and of a
certain letter addressed to the organist of the church containing threatening language about the sexton. The theory of
the prosecution was that the accused had obtained the strychnine specified in the prescription and put it into food that he
delivered or caused to be delivered t6 the deceased with intent
to destro.y his life. The accused denied that he wrote either
the prescription or the letter to the organist, or that he had
any connection with either of those writings. At the first
trial certain letters writtell by him to his wife were admitted
in evidence for the purpose of comparing them with the writing in the prescription and with the letter to the organist.
The Supreme Court of the State, upon the first appeal, held
that it was error to admit in evidence for purposes of comparison the letters written by Thompson to his wife, and for
that error the first judgment was reversed and a new trial
ordered. 132 Missouri, 301, 324.
Subsequently, the general assembly of Missouri passed an
act which became operative in July, 1895, providing that
"comparison of a disputed writing with any writing proved
to the satisfaction of the judge to be genuine shall be permitted to be made by witnesses, and such writings and the
evidence of witnesses respecting the same may be submitted
to the court and jury as evidence of the genuineness or otherwise of the writing in dispute." Laws Missouri, April 8, 1895,
p. 281.
This statute is in the very words of .section 27 of the English Common Law Procedure Act of 1854, 17 & 18 Vict. c. 125.
And by the 28 Viet. c. 18, §§ 1, 8, the provisions of that act
were extended to criminal cases.
At the second trial, which occurred in 1896, the letters
written by the accused to his wife were again admitted in
evidence, over his objection, for the purpose of comparing
them with the order for strychnine and the letter to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

organist. This action of the trial court was based upon the
above statute of 1895.
The contention of the accused is that as the letters to his
wife were not, at the time of the commision of the alleged
"offence, admissible in evidence for the purpose of comparing
them with other writings charged to be in his handwriting,
the subsequent statute of Missouri changing this rule of evidence was expostfacto when applied to his case.
It is not to be denied that the position of the accused finds
apparent support in the general language used in some opinions.
Mr.Justice Chase, in his classification of exepost facto laws
in Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 390, includes "every law that
alters the legal rules of evidence, and receives less or different
testimony than the law required at the time of the commission
of the offence in order to convict the offender."
In K~ring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221, 228, 232, 235, the question arse as to the validity of a statute of Missouri under
which the accused was found guilty of the crime of murder in
the first degree and sentenced to be hung. That case was
tried several times, and. was three times in the :Supreme Courtof the State. At the trial immediately preceding the last one
Kring was allowed to plead guilty of murder in the second
degree.- The plea was accepted, and he was sentenced to im-prisonment in the penitentiary for the term of twenty-five
years. Having understood that, upon this plea, he was to be
sentenced to imprisonment for only ten years, he prosecuted
an appeal, which resulted in a reversal of the judgment. At
the last trial the court set aside the plea of guilty of murder
in the second degree - the accused having refused to withdraw
it - and, against his objection, ordered a plea of not guilty to
be entered in his behalf. Under the latter plea he was tried,
convicted and sentenced to be hanged. By the law of Missouri at the time of the commission of Kring's offence, his conviction and sentence under the plea of guilty of murder in the
second degree was an absolute acquittal of the charge of murder in the first degree. But that law having been changed
before the final trial occurred, Kring contended that the last

THOMPSON v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

statute, if applied to his case, would be within the prohibition
of ex post facto laws. And that view was sustained by this
court, four of its members dissenting.
In the opinion of the court in King's case reference was
made to the opinion of Mr. Justice Chase in Calder v. Bull,
and also to the charge of the court to the jury in United State&
v. Hall, 2 Wash. C. C. 366, 373. In.the latter case Mr. Justice
Washington said: "An ex post facto law is one which, in its
operation, makes that criminal or penal which was not so at
the time the action was performed; or which increases the
punishment; or, in short, which, in relation to.the offence or
its consequences, alters the situation of a party to his disadvantage." He added:."If the enforcing law applies to this
case, there can be no doubt that, so far as it takes away or
impairs the defence which the law had provided the defendant
at the time when the condition of this bond became forfeited,
it is ex.ost facto and inoperative."

Considering the sugges-

tion that the Missouri statute under which Kring was convicted
only regulated procedure, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for this
court, said: "Can any substantial right which the law gave
the defendant at the time to which his guilt relates be taken
away from him by ex postfacto legislation, because, in the use
of a modern phrase, it is called the law of procedure? We
think it cannot." In conclusion it was said: "Tested by these
criteria, the provision of the constitution of Missouri which
denies to plaintiff in error the benefit which the previous law
gave him of acquittal of the charge of murder in the first degree on conviction of murder in the second degree, is, as to his
case, an expostfacto law within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.'
A careful examination of the opinion in Ering v. fissouri
shows that the judgment in that case proceeded on the ground
that the change in the law of Missouri as to the effect of a
conviction of murder in the second degree - the accused being
charged with murder in the first degree --was not simply a
change in procedure, but such an alteration of the previous
law as took from the accused, after conviction of murder in
the second degree, that protection against punishment for

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

murder in the first degree which was given him at the time of
the commission of the offence. The right to such protection
was deemed a substantial one- indeed, it constituted a complete defence against the charge of murder in the first degree
- that could not be taken from the accused by subsequent
legislation. This is clear from the statement in Yi-ing's case
that the question before the court was whether the statute of
Missouri deprived "the defendant of any right of defence
which the law gave him when the act was committed so that
as to that offence it is expostfacto."
This general subject was considered in Jopt v. Utah, 110
U. S..574, 588, 589. Hopt was indicted, tried and convicted
of murder in thb Territory of Utah,-the punishment therefor
being death. At the time of the commission of the offence it
was the law of Utah that no person convicted of a felony
could be a witness in a criminal case. After the date of the
alleged offence, and prior to the trial of the case, an act was
passed removing the disqualification as witnesses of persons
who had been convicted of felonies. And the point was made
that the statute, in its application to Hopt's case, was expost
facto.
This court said: "The provision of the Constitution which
prohibits the States from passing ex postfato laws was examined in EJring v. Missouri, 107 U. S. 221. The whole subject
was there fully and carefully-considered. The court, in view
of the adjudged cases, as well as upon principle, held that a
provision of the constitution of Missouri denying to the prisoner, charged with murder in the first degree, the benefit of
the law as it was at the commission of the offence -under
which a conviction of murder in the second degree was an
acquittal of murder in the first degree, even though subh judgment of conviction was subsequently reversed.- was in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States. That decision
proceeded upon the ground that the state constitution deprived the accused of a substantial right which the law gave
him when the offence was committed, and therefore, in its
application to that offence and its consequences, altered the
situation of the party to his disadvantage. By the law as

THOMPSON v. MISSOUiI.
Opinion of the Court.

established when the offence was committed, Kring could not
have been punished with death after his conviction of murder
in the second degree, whereas, by the abrogation of that law
by the constitutional provision subsequently adopted, he could
thereafter be tried and convicted of murder in the first degree,
and subjected to the punishment of death. Thus the judgment of conviction of murder in the second degree was deprived of all force as evidence to establish his absolute
immunity thereafter from punishment for murder in the first
degree. This was held to be the deprivation of a substantial
right which the accused had at the time the alleged offence
was committed. But there are no such features in the case
before us. Statutes which simply enlarge the class of persons
who may be competent to testify in criminal cases are not ex
po8 facto in their application to prosecutions for crimes dommitted prior to their passage; for they do not attach criminality to any act previously done, and which was innocent when
done; nor aggravate any crime theretofore committed; nor
provide a greater punishment therefor than was prescribed at
the time of its commission ; nor do they alter the degree, or
lessen the amount or measure, of the proof which was made
necessary to conviction when the crime -was committed."
The court added: "The crime for which the present defendant
was indicted, the pliishment prescribed therefor, and the
quantity or the degree of proof necessary to establish his
guilt, all remained unaffected by the subsequent statute. Any
statutory alteration of the legal rules of evidence which would
authorize conviction upon less proof, in amount or degree,
than was required when the offence was committed, might, in
respect of that offence, be obnoxious to the constitutional
inhibition upon expostfacto laws. But alterations which do
not increase the punishment, nor change the ingredients of
the offence, or the ultimate facts necessary to establish guilt,
but-leaving untouched the nature of the crime and the
amount or degree of proof essential to conviction -only
remove existing restrictions upon the competency of certain
classes of persons as witnesses, relate to -modes of procedure
only, in which no one can be said to have a vested right, and
VOL. corx=-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Which the State, upon grounds of public policy, may regulate
at pleasure. "Such regulations of the mode in which the
facts constituting guilt may be llaced before the jury, can be
made applicable to prosecutions or trials thereafter had,-without reference to the date of the commission of the offence
charged."
At the present term, in fThompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343,

this court observed, generally, that a statute is ex _ost facto
its relation to the
which, by its necessary operation and in.
offence or its consequences, alters tie situation of the accused
to his disadvantage. But it took care to add: "Of course, a
statute is not of that class unless it materially impairs -the
right of the accused to have the question of his. .guilt determined according to the law as it was when the offence was
committed. And, therefore, it is well settled that the accused
is not entitled of right to be tried in the exact mode, in all
respects, that may be prescribed for the trial of criminal cases
at the time of the commission of the offence charged against
him. Cooley in his Treatise on Constitutional Limitations,
after referring to some of the adjudged cases relating to ex
postfacto laws, says: ' But so far as mere modes of procedure
are concerned, a party has no more right, in a criminal than
in a civil action, to insist that his case- shall be disposed of
under the law in force when the act to be investigated is
charged to have taken place. Remedies must Always be under
the control of the legislature, and it would create endless confusion in legal proceedings if every case was to be conducted
only in accordance with the rules of practice, and heard only
bythe courts in existence when its facts arose. The legislature may abolish courts and create new ones, and it may prescribe altogether different modes of procedure in its discretion,
thohgh it cannot lawfully, we think, in so doing, dispense with
any of those substantial protections with which the existing
c. 9, p. *272.
law surrounds the person accused of crime.'
Applying the principles announced in formbr cases - without attaching undue weight to general expressions in them
that go beyond the questions n~cessary to be determined -weadjudge that the statute of Missouri relating, to the con-

THOMPSON v. MISSOURI
Opinion of the Court.

parison of writings is not expostfacto when applied to prosecutions for crimes committed prior to its passage. If persons
excluded, upon grounds of public policy, at the time .of the
commission of an offence, from testifying as witnesses for or
against the accused, may, in virtue of a statute, become com-.
petent to testify, we cannot perceive any ground upon which
to hold a statute to be expostfacto which does nothing more
than admit evidence of a particular kind in a criminal case*
upon an issue of fact which was not admissible under the rules
of evidence as enforced by judicial decisions at the time the
offence was committed. The Missouri statute, when applied
to this case, did not einlarge the punishment to which the
accused was liable when his crime was committed, nor make
any act involved in his offence criminal that was not criminal
at the time he committed the murder of which he was found
guilty. It did not change the quality or degree of his offence.
Nor-can the new rule introduced by it be characterized as unreasonable - qeitainly not so unreasonable as materially to
affect the substantial rights of one put on trial for crime.
The statute did not require "less proof, in amount or degree,"
than was required at the time of the commission of the crime
charged upon him. It left unimpaired the right of the jury
to determine the sufficiency or effect of the evidence declared
to be admissible, and did not disturb the fundamental rule
that the State, as a condition of its right -to take the life of
an accused, must overcome the presumption of his innocence
and establish his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. Whether
he wrote the prescription for strychnine, or the threatening
letter to the church organist, was left for the jury, and the
duty of the jury, in that particular, was the same after as
before the passage of the statute. The statute did nothing
more than remove an obstacle arising out of a rule of evidence
that withdrew from the consideration of the jury testimony
which, in the opinion of the legislature, tended to elucidate
the ultimate, essential fact to be established, namely, the guilt
of the accused. Nor did it give the prosecution any right
that was denied to the accused. It placed the State and the
accused upon an equality; for the rule established by it gave

OCTOBER TERAI,

1897.

Syllabus.

to each side the right to have disputed writings compared with
writings proved to the satisfaction of the judge to be genuine.
Each side was entitled to go to the jury upon the question of
the genuineness of the writing upon which the prosecution
relied to establish the guilt of the accused. It is well known
that the adjudged cases have not been in harmony touching
the rule relating to .the comparison of handwritings: and the
object of the legislature, as we may assume, was to give the
jury all the light that could be thrown upon an issue of that
character. We cannot adjudge that the accused had any
vested right in the rule of evidence which obtained prior to
the passage of the Missouri statute, nor that the rule established
by that statute entrenched upon any of the essential rights
belonging to one put on trial for a public offence.
Of course, we are not to be understood as holding that
there may not be such a statutory alteration of the fundamental rules in criminal trials as might bring the statute in
conflict with the expostfacto clause of the Constitution. If,
for instance, the statute had taken from the jury the rightto
determine the sufficiency or effect of the evidence which it
made admissible, a different question would have been presented. We mean now only to adjudge that the statute is to"
be regarded as one merely regulating procedure and may be
applied to crimes committed prior to its passage without impairing the substantial guarantees of life and liberty that are
secured to an accused by the supreme law of the land.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
Afflrmed.

BALDY v. HUNTER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
lNo. 241.

Argued April 29, 1898. -Decided

May 31, 1898.

Transactions between persons actually residing within the territory dominated by the government of the Confederate States were not invalid for
the reason only that they occurred under the sanction of the laws of
that government or of any local government recognizing Its authority.

