DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. BAILEY.
Statement of the Case.

relief as the circumstances of the case seem to justify. We
therefore take the value of the property in the cars, etc., in
1885 at'the sum of $710,846.50. To that, we think, should
be added'the $17,000. cash received from the Central Company,
making a total of $727,846.50 and interest from January 1,
1885, for which the cross-defendant is liable, -together with
costs.
Although the Central Company may have been injured by
the result of this lease, yet that is a misfortune which has
overtaken it by reason of the rule of law which declares void
a lease of such a nature, and -while the company may not have
incurred any moral guilt it has nevertheless violated the law
by making an illegal contract and one which was against
public policy, and it must take such consequences as result
therefrom.
The judgment appealed from must be
Reversed and the case remitted to.the Circuit Courtfor the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania,with directions to enter
a judgmentfor the Central Transportation Company in
accordancewith this opini n.
MIR.

JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

MR. JUsTICE WHr dissented on the ground that the judgment appealed from was for the coirect amount. and should
not be reduced.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. BAILEY.
BAILEY v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF -APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Nos.390, 420. Submitted January 10, 189.-Decided May 31, 1695.

The commissioners of the District of Columbia have no power to agree to
a common law submission of a claim againt the District.

ON July 30, 1879, a contract for resurfacing with asphaltum
certain streets in the city of Washington was awarded to
voL. CLIXI-11

OCTOBER TERI,

1897.

Statement of the Case.

The Bailey-French Paving Company. The agreement was
embodied in a writing signed on the one part by Davis W.
Bailey as general, agent of the company just named, and on
the other part signed and sealed by the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia. The price specified for the work aggregated a little less than $41,000. On February 12, 1880, when
about three fourths of the work to be done under this contract
had been completed and about $36,000 earned therefor, including $5784.14 allowed for extra work, the Commissioners notified Bailey that no more work could be performed under the
contract, because of the fact that the appropriation made by
Congress for the work in question was exhausted. Subsequently, on February 24, 1883, Davis W. Bailey, claiming that
he was in fact The Bailey-French raving Company, instituted
an action at law in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia against the District Qf Columbia to recover $25,000 as
damages,.averred to have been sustained by the cessation of
the work under the contract. The District, on April 4, 1883,
filed pleas, claiming a set-off of $1312.30 for damages alleged
to have been sustained by improper performance of the work
of resurfacing; averring the termination of the contract by
reason of the appropriation having been exhausted; and alleging that the time within which the contractor had stipulated
to complete the work had expired long prior to the cancellation of the contract. The plaintiff joined issue and filed a replication on April 18, 1883.
On June 19, 1883, Bailey died. His widow was appointed
administratrix, and the action against the District was revived
in her name.
On September 16, 1891, the attorney for the claimant
addressed a letter, on behalf of the administratrix, to the
Commissioners of the District of Columbia, calling attention
to the pending case, stating that "the ground of said suit is
for breach of contract," reciting the facts as to the making of
the contract and the mode by which it was terminated, and
claiming that, at the time of such cancellation, Bailey had expended for machinery-necessary to the performance of the
contract $10,180; that he had at the time stock on hand,

DISTRICT OF -COLUMBIA v. BAILEY.
Statement of the Case.

$7000; that the profit on the unexecuted balance of the
work would have been $8000; that there was due under the
contract for an extra one half inch of surfacing $5000. These
items were stated in the letter to amount to $31,180, but only
aggregate $30,180. Without calling the attention of the
Commissioners to the fact that the item of fiye thousand
dollars for an extra half inch of resurfacing was not asserted
in the declaration in the pending suit, the attorey for the
administratrix proceeded to refer to the defences interposed in
such suit on behalf of the District, and next stated the claim
made by the contractor in his replication, that the delay in the
work was the fault of the District. The conclusion of the
letter, omitting references to immaterial matters, was as follows:
"Now, having stated the principal facts which bear upon
this case, that you may have sufficient knowvledge to act in the
premises, I write to ask if you will appoint some good man as
a referee or arbitrator to whom this case may be referred,
with power to hear the evidence and make an award which
shall be accepted, whether for or against us, as a final settlement of this long and much litigated case."
This communication was referred by the Commissioners to
the attorney for the District, who endorsed thereon under
date of October 1"7, 1891:
"This is a case which has been pending in the court for a
long time and it ought to be disposed of; If it could be
referred to some -first-class referee, 'who will give us a full
hearing, it would be a very good way of disposing of it, and
I should favor such a reference, as we can then attend to it at
our convenience.".
A memorandum was also sent by one of the Commissioners
to the assistant attorney for the District, which read as
follows:
" THOMAS: Think of some good names for a referee, and
talk with us about this case.
"October 27, 1891.
J. W. D."

A memorandum in pencil, evidently having reference to
the foregoing, is as follows:

OCTOBER TERE, i897.
Statement of the Case.

"Ans. Mr. Douglass.' Comm'rs think this case should be
settled in court."
On October 28, 1891, Assistant Attorney Thomas sent the
following letter:
"To the Hion. Commissioners, etc., etc.:
" GENTLEmEN: I return to you herewith a communication
from W. Preston Williamson, Esq., relative to the case of
Bailey v. The Districtof Columbia, referred to me with the
request that I give you the name of some one who "would
make a good referee.
"I would suggest either Mr. A. B. Duvall or Mr. J. 11.
Lichliter, both membei's of the bar and well qualified to decide
the issues in that case.
"Very respectfully,
"S. T. THOmAS, Ass't Att'y -D.C."
The next document referring to the matter is the following:
OFFICE OF THE
COMMISSIONERS OF THEr DIsTRICT OF COLUAMUIA,

"WAsHNGToN, January11, 1892.

"Ordered, that J. J. Johnson is hereby appointed referee
in the matter of the suit of Bailey, Administrati of Bailey,
deceased, v. Districtof Columbia.
"Official copy furnished Mr.*J. J. Johnson.
W. TINDALL, Secretary."
"By order:
Under this appointment, on February 17, 1892, the attorneys for the respective parties appeared before Mr. Johnson.
It was claimed by witnesses for the plaintiff at the trial of
the action subsequently brought to enforce the finding Of the
referee, that at the commencement of the hearing the latter
gentleman, as well as the attorney for the administratrix,
raised the question whether or not under the order of appointment the decision of the referee was to be final, and were
assured by the attorney for the District that the decision of
Mr. Johnson was to be a final determination of the case.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. BAILEY.
Statement of the Case.

-

Such witnesses also testified that subsequently, when a question arose with -respect to permitting an amended declaration
to be filed, setting up a claim for an extra half inch of resurfacing, the referee and attorneys discussed as to whether the
decision of the referee "was to wind up finally the whole
matter," and an affirmative conclusion was arrived at. No
attempt, however, was made to obtain from the Commissioners
of the District any modification or amplification of the writing of January 11, 1892.
The hearing before the referee was concluded on July 18,
1892, when Mr. Johnson placed on the files of'the Supreme
Court of the District 'of Columbia in action numbered 24-,279
his report as referee. The report did not refer to the mode
by which its author had becpine referee. It was entitled in
the cause, purported to contain a synopsis of the pleadings,
the plaintiff's claim, a statement of the facts and the findings of "J. J. Johnson, referee." The report concluded as
follows:
"Upon the evidence and the law I have allowed the plaintiff for the unexecuted balance of 11,385 square yards, $4440.15,
being the profit between the cost of resurfacing the streets at
fifty, cents per square yard and eighty-nine cents, the price
received, and for the extra one half inch I have allowed the
plaintiff $6079.05, at the contract price, aggregating the sum
of $10,519.20. I do therefore find that there is due to the
plaintiff from the defendant the sum of $10,519.20, besides
costs."
The referee also fixed his fee at $550, which was paid by
the administratrix.
On September 23, 1892, exceptions were' filed on behalf of
the District to this report. Upon the exceptions, the attorney
for the plaintiff made the following endorsement: "I consent
that these exceptions be filed nunc pro tune." On March 10,
1893, a motion for judgment was filed on behalf of the plaintiff.
Without action being had on the exceptions and motions
referred to, the administratrix of Bailey, on August 8, 1893,
instituted an action at law, numbered 31,56-, in the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

Court of the District of Columbia, seeking to recover from
the District the sum of $10,519.20, basing the right to such
recovery upon the claim that the finding of Mr. Johnson was,
in fact, a final decision and award. In the. affidavit filed with
the declaration, as authorized by the rules of practice of the
court, what purports to be a copy of the resolution appointing Mr. 'Johnson referee is set out, but the words "of the
suit" are omitted from before the words "of Bailey, administratrix."
On September 2, 1893, pleas were filed on
behalf of the District, denying that it had agreed to submit
the matters of difference referred to in the declaration to the
award and arbitrament of Johnson, and averring that Johnson
had not made an award concerning the same. The various
steps in the original action (No. 21,279) were stated, and it
was alleged that motions-to set aside said award and for judgment were still pending. It was also averred that the alleged
award was not under seal and was never delivered to the .defendant; that the defendant never undertook and promised
in the manner and form as alleged, and that the District
The plaintiff joined issue.
was not indebted as alleged.
On 'October 8, 1895, on motion of the plaintiff, the two
causes were consolidated. While the motion to consolidate
was opposed by the District, no exception was taken to the
entry of the order of consolidation.
The consolidated action came on for trial January 13, 1896.
At the trial W. Preston Williamson, a witness for the plaintiff, testified that he had sent to the Commissioners the communication of September 16, 1891. Under objection and
exception he was permitted to testify to conversations had
• separately wifh two of *the Commissioners, which tended to
show that in the event of the appointment of an arbitrator
or referee, it was the intention of the Commissioners to submit to the individual selected as referee or arbitrator the final
determination of the entire controversy referred to in Williamson's letter. Also under objection and exception, the witness
testified that after the order appointing Mr. Johnson referee
was made by the Commissioners, he and the attorney for the.
District, in the presence of the referee, discussed the scopeof

DISTRICT OF COLUMfBIA v. BAILEY.
Statement of the Case.

the submission, and agreed that the decision of the referee
was intended by the parties to the controversy to be a final
disposition of the whole matter. The indorsementg on the'
letter of Mr. Williamson, the letter of the assistant, attorney
of the District, and other memoranda heretofore set out were
put in evidence on behalf of the plaintiff. Mr. Hazleton, a
former attorney for the District, also testified for the plaintiff,
in substance, under objection nd exception, that it was the
intention of the Commissioners, as he knew from oral statements made to him by two of the Commissioners, that the
appointment of a referee would be for the purpose of ending
the whole controversy, and that nothing occurred between
the time of the appointment of the referee and the making
of the report to change that understanding. Ie also testified as to the filing of the amended declaration before the
referee, setting up the claim for an extra half inch of re~urfacing, which was not'embraced in the pending suit at the time
the referee or arbitrator was appointed.
J. J. Johnson also testified on behalf of the plaintiff, under
objection and exception, as to the understanding had with
him at the hearing before him as referee, by the counsel for
the respective parties, regarding the finality of any decision
made by him, and as to the filing of the amended declaration
for the extra half inch of resurfacing. He testified that he
filed the report made by him in court of his own motion, and
averred that certain written matter filed with his report was
not a part of the report, and that it did not contain all the
evidence, though it contained all the oral testimony given
before him.
The report was next put in evidence, objections being first
separately interposed to its introduction on the grounds:
(1,) that the papers and evidence attached thereto should also
be put in evidence; and, (2,) that the referee was without authority to make an award. To the overruling of each objection the defendant duly excepted.
John W. Douglass, one of the Commissioners for the District in office at the time of the appointment of the referee,
testified on behalf of the plaintiff that the intention of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

Commissioners was: to make .the reference final. The evidence for the plaintiff was closed with the testimony of the
plaintiff, who stated, in effect, that the letter of September
16, 1891, had been sent to the Commissioners with her.approval, and that nothing had been paid her on account of the
award. For the defendant, John W. Ross, who was a Commissioner at the time of the appointment of Mr. Johnson, testified that he was an attorney-at-law, knew the difference
between an. arbitration and order of reference for a report.,
and that his understanding when the appointment of Mr.
Johnson as referee was made. was that the appointment was
not of an arbitrator, but was simply one of reference. He
further testified "there was no record of the appointment of
the referee, except the one in evidence, unless the pencil
memorandum may be taken as a record." The witness denied that he made statements attributed to him by the witnesses for the plaintiff, to the effect that it was the
intention
of the Commissioners that the decision of Mr. Johnson should
be final.
After Mr. Ross had concluded his testimony, the record and
proceedings in action No. 21,279 were introduced in evidence
on behalf of the defendant. On the settlement of .the bill of
exceptions a dispute arose as to whether the .papers attached
to the repott of the referee had been put in evidence 'by the
offer made, but it is unnecessary to notice the action taken by
the trial court with respect to that controversy.
In rebuttal, Mr. Williamson reiterated statements as to
alleged declarations of Mr. Ross regarding the finality of the
decision of the referee. On cross-examination he said:
"That he wrote the letter of September 16, 1891, at his
office, 912 F .street; that he did not know why the Dist.ict
filed exceptions, as i4 was understood that the report was to
be final;- that witness filed the motion to confirm the award
because he thought it the best thing, the only thing, that
could then be done, and that he thofight it would be simply a
matter of form, and he would have confirmation at once of
the award, and that the money would be paid; but the District,
instead of doing that, violated its agreement; that witness

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. BAILEY.
Statement of the Case.

did not remember ever consenting to the filing of exceptions
to the award. Now that counsel shows him the paper which
is the exception to the award, witness remembers that he
signed the paper consenting that the exceptions should be
filed nunOpro tunc. Mr. Richardson came to him and asked
him if he would make any special objection to the exceptions
being filed; that it ought to be filed, so that the District might
make their objections, and for that purpose he dii'it, and did
not consent to it because he thought it was not final; that
there was not a copy of the award served by him on the
Commissioners; that Mr. Johnson was their arbitrator, and it
was not for witness to serve them with a copy."
The evidence was then closed. The trial judge granted a
request of the defendant that the jury be instructed to render
a verdict for the defendant in the first action, and an exception was duly noted on behalf of the administratrix. The
trial judge also granted a request of counsel for the plaintiff,
in substance that the jury be instructed to find for the plaintiff if they found from the evidence that the Commissioners
accepted the proposition contained in Mr.Williamson's letter,
that in pursuance of such acceptance the Commissioners made
the order of January 11, 1892, and that the hearing before
Mr. Johnson was proceeded with under such appointment, and
the declaration amended at the hearing by consent of counsel.
An exception was taken to the granting of this instruction.
The following requests for instructions were then asked
on behalf of the defendant, which, being overruled, separate
exceptions were noted:
"2. The jury are instructed, on the whole evidence in cause
No. 34,564, they *areto render a verdict for the defendant.
"3. The jury are instructed that the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia were without authority to agree to submit the matters in controversy in the case of Bailey, Adm'r,
v. The Districtof Columbia, at law, No. 24,279, to the final
award of an arbitrator, but that said Commissioners had
authority to agree to refer the case for the award and report
of a referee, subject to the approval of the court."
"5. The jury are instructed that the plaintiff, as adminis-

OCTOBER TERM, 189.
Opfnion of the Court.

tratrix of the estath of her deceased husband, was without
authority to agree to refer the claim of the estate to arbitration without the previous direction of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, holding a special term for orphans'
court business."
The bill of exception also states that exceptions were taken
on behalf of the District to portions of the general charge of
the court contained in brackets, but no portion of the charge,
as contained in the printed record, is so marked.
A verdict was returned finding in favor of the defendant in
action N'o. 24,279, and in favor of the plaintiff for 810,519.20
and interest in action No. 24,564:. Judgment was subsequently
entered upon the verdict, and both parties prosecuted error.
The Court of Appeals of the District having affirmed the
judgment, 9 App. D. C. 360, each party obtained the allowance of a writ of error from the court, and the consolidated
cause is now here for review..
-Mr,Sidney T. Thomas and Mr. Andrew -B. Duvall for the
District of Columbia.,
A&. A. S. Forthingtonfor Bailey.
MR. JusTIcE WHiTE, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision of this controversy. involves two propositions.
Did the Commissioners of the District of Columbia have the
power to agree to submit the claim in issue to the award of
an arbitrator? And if they did have the power, did they lawfully exercise it? To answer either of these questions it.becomes essential to ascertain whether an agreement to submit
to-arbitration involves the power to contract.. Both of the
matters above stated depend upon this last inquiry, because
both the claim that the District of Columbia did not in valid
form exercise the power to submit to arbitration, and. the assertjon that if they so did they were not authorized to that
end, r.est oii, the claim that the submission Was not made .in

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v.. BAILEY.
Opinion of the Court.

the form required by. law to constitute a contract, and even if
the alleged award was in legal form, nevertheless the District Commissioners were without power to contract for that
purpose.
In determining whether an agreement to arbitrate involves
the power to contract we eliminate at once from consideration
consents to arbitrate made under a rule of court, by consent,
in a pending suit, and shall consider only whether an agreemnent to arbitrate not under rule of court or-within the terms
of a statute enacted for such purpose is or is not a contract..
We do this, because there is no pretence in the casb at bar
that the submission to arbitration was under a rule of court
or equivalent thereto. Indeed, the courts below held that the
submission of the claim in question to arbitration was a purely
common law one and not made under a statute or rule of
court; and in consequence of these views the courts held it
to be their duty to make the award executory by rendering
a judgment thereon, on the assumption that the parties having agreed to a common law submission were bound by reason
thereof to abide by the award of the arbitrator.
The general rule is, "that every one whQ is capable of making a disposition of his property, or a-release of his right, may
make a submission to an award; but no one can, who is either
under a natural or civil incapacity of contracting." Kyd,
p. 35; Russell on Arbitrators, p. 14. And Morse, in the opening paragraph of his treatise on Arbitration and Aivard (p. 3),
says: "A submission is a contract." And again, at p. 50:
"The, submission is the agreement of the parties to refer. It
is, therefore, a contract, and will in general be governed by
the law concerning contracts." In WiVitcher v. Whltcher, 49
N. H. 176, the Supreme Court of New Hampshire said
(p. 180): "A submission is a contract between two or more
parties, whereby they agree to refer the subject in dispute to
others and to be bouna by their award, and the submission
itself implies an agreement to abide the result, even if no such
agreement were expressed." It was because a submission to
arbitration had the force of a contract, that at common law
a submission by a corporation aggregate was required to -be

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the act of the corporate body, Russell on Arbitrators, fifth
edition, p. 20; which act was of necessity required to be evidenced in a particular manner.
It is true that an executor, at common law, had the power
to subinit to. an award. But this -power arose by reason of
the full dominion whigh the law gave.the executor or administrator over the assets, and the full discretion which it vestedin him for the settlement and liquidation of all claims duet6 and from thd estate. Wheatley v. .Martin., 6 Leigh,-62j
Wamsey v. WTa'mlsy, 26 W. Va. 45; Wood v. Tunniolif 74
N: Y. 38. Whilst, however, the agreement of the executor
to a common law submission was binding upon him, such a
consent on his part did not protect him from being called to
an account by the beneficiaries of the estate, if the submission
proved not .to be to their advantage, because the submission was
the voluntary act of the executor and was not the equivalent
of a judicial finding. 3 Williams on Executors, p. 326, and
adthorities cited. So, also, the -power of a municipal corporation to arbitrate arises from its authority to liquidate and
settle claims, and the rule on this .subject is thus stated by
Dillon (Mun. Corp. 4th ed. see. 478):
"As a general prdposition, municipal corporations have,
unless specially restricted, the same powers to liquidate claims
*and indebtedness that natural persons have, and from that
source proceeds power to adjust all disputed claims, and when
the amount is ascertained to pay the same as other indebtedness. It irould seem to follow therefrom that a municipal
corporation, unless disabled by positive law, could submit to
arbitraiion all unsettled claims with the same liability to perform the award as would rest upon a natural person, provided,
of course,, that such power be exercised by ordinance or resolution of the corporate authorities."
In the early case of Brady v. Brooklyn, -1 Barb. 584, 589,
the power of a municipal corporation to submit to arbitration
was ascribed to the capacity to contract, with a liability to
pay, and it was held that corporations have all the powers of
ordinary parties as respects their contracts, except when they
are restricted expressly, or 1y eceesary implication. In the

DISTRICT 0F COLUMBIA v..BAILEY.
Opinion of the Court.

case of minor public officials or corporations, such as selectmen and school districts, the power to arbitrate has been
clearly rested upon the existence of the right to adjust and
settle claims of the particular character which had been submitted to arbitration. Dix v. Dummerston, 19 Vermont, 262;
Walnut v. R ankin, 70 Iowa, 65. Indeed, the proposition that
an independent agreemnent to submit to an award must depend
for its validity upon the existence of the right to contract is
so elementary that further citation of authority to support
it is unnecessary.
Examining, then, the questions we have stated in their
inverse order, we proceed to inquire whether the Commissioners of the District of Columbia had the power to enter
into a contract of the nature of that under consideration.
The solution of this inquiry requires a brief examination of
the statutes, from which alone the powers of the Commissioners of the District are derived.
By the act of June 20, 1874, c. 337, "An act for the government of the District of Columbia, and other purposes,"
18 Stat. 116, the commission provided for in section 2 -was
vested with the power and authority of the then governor
or board of public works of the District, except as thereinafter limited, and it was provided that "said commission, in
the exercise of such power or .authority, shall make no contract, nor incur any obligation other than such contracts and
obligations as may be necessary to the faithful idministration of the valid laws enacted for the government of said
District, to the execution of existing legal obligations and
contracts, and to the protection or preservation of improvements existing, or commenced and not completed, at the time
of the passage of this act."
By the act of June 11, 1878, c. 180, "An act providing a
perinanent form of government for the District of Columbia,'!
20 Stat. 102, the District and the property and persons therein
were made subject to the provisions of the act, "and also to
any existing laws applicable thereto not hereby repealed or
inconsistent with the provisions of this act.?' The Commissioners provided for in the act were, by section 3, vested with

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

all the powers, rights, duties and privileges lawfully exercised
by, and all property, estate and effects vested in the Commissioners appointed under the provisions of the act of June 20,
1871, and were given power, subject to the limitations and
provisions contained in the act, to apply the taxes or other
revenues of the District to the payment of the current expenses thereof, to the support of the public schools, the fire
department and the police. It was expressly enacted, however, in the same section, that the Commissioners in the exercise of the duties, powers and authority vested in them "shall
make no contract, nor incur any obligation other than such
contracts and obligations as are hereinafter provided for and
shall be approved by Congress." In the same section it was
further provided-that the Commissioners should annually submit to the Secretary of the Treasury, for his examination and
approval and transmission by him to Congress, a statement
"showing in detail the work proposed to be undertaken by the
Commissioners during the fiscal year next ensuing, and the
estimated cost thereof; also the cost of constructing, repairing and maintaining all bridges authorized by law across the
Potomac River within the District of Columbia, and also all
other streams in said District; the cost of maintaining all
public institutions of charity, reformatories and prisons belonging to or controlled wholly or in part by the District of
Columbia, and which are now by law supported wholly or in
part by the United States or District of Columbia; and also
the expenses of the Washington Aqueduct and its appurtenances; and also an itemized statement and estimate of the
amount necessary t6. defray the expenses of the government
of the District of Columbia for the next fiscal year." Of the
estimates as finally approved by Congress, the act provided
that fifty per cent should be appropriated for by Congress,
and the remaining fifty per cent assessed upon the taxable
property and privileges in the District other than the property of the United States'and of the District of Columbia.
In the fifth section of the act provision was made for the letting by contract, after due advertisement, of all work of
repair on streets, etc., where the cost would exceed one thou-

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. BAILEY.
Opinion of the Court.

sand dollars, and it was also, in said section, stipulated that
"all .contracts for the construction, improvement, alteration
or repairs of the streets, avenues, highways, alleys, gutters,
sewers and all work of like nature shall be made and entered
into only by and with the official unanimous consent of the
Commissioners of the District, and all contracts shall be
copied in a book kept for that purpose and be signed by the
said Commissioners, and no contract involving an expenditure
of niore than one hundred dollars shall be valid until recorded
and signed as aforesaid."
By section 37 of the act of February 21, 1871, 6. 62, 16
Stat. 419, 427, it was provided as follows:
"All contracts made by the said board of public works shall
be in writing, and shall be signed by the parties making the
same, and a copy thereof shall be filed in the office of the
Secretary of the District, and said board of public works shall
have no power to make contracts to bind said District to the,
payment of any sums of money expept in pursuance of appropriations made by law, and not until such appropriations shall
have'been made."
This section Is deemed to be applicable to the present Commissioners. (Comp. Stat. Dis. Col. sees. 80 and 31, pp. 201-2.)
So, also, by section 15 of the act of 1871, 16 Stat. 423, it was
provided that the legislative assembly should not "authorize
the payment of any claim, or part thereof, hereafter created
against the District under any contract or agreement made,
'without express authority-of law, and all such unauthorized
agreements or contracts shal.l be null and void."
Section 13 of the joint resolution of June 1., 1878, embodies
-the second section of the joint resolution approved March 14,
1876, 19 Stat. 211, 212, which made it a misdemeanoi for any
officer or person to increase or aid or abet in increasing the
total indebfedness of the District.
Under the statutes of 1874 and 1878, above referred to, it
has been held that the District of Columbia still continued to
be a municipal corporation, and that it was subject to the
operation of a statute of limitations, .Metropolitam Railroad
Co. v. District of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1, and was also liable

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

for damages caused by a neglect to repair the streets within
the District. District of Columbia v. Woodbary, 136 U. S.
450. BIut the mere fact that the District is a municipal cor.poration is not decisive of the question whether or not the
Commissioners of the District had power to make a contract
to submit to an award, for, as we have seen, it is not the mere
existence of a municipal corporate being from which the power
to make a submission to arbitration is deduced, but that the
municipal corporation by which such an agreement is entered
into has power to contract, to settle and adjust debts; in
other words, all the general attributes which normally attach
to and result from municipal corporate existence. Recurring
to the statutes relating to the Commissioners of the District
of Columbia, it is clear from their face that these officers are
without general power to contract debts, or to adjust' and pay
the same;, that, on the contrary, the statutes expressly deprive
them of such power, and limit the scope of their authority to
the mere execution of contracts previously sanctioned by Con.gress or which they are authorized to make by express statutory authority. The necessary operation of these provisions
of the statutes is to cause the District Commissioners to be
merely administrative officers with ministerial powers only.
The sum of the municipal powers of the District of Columbia
is neither vested in nor exercised by the District Commisgioners. They are, on the contrary, vested in the Congress of
the United States, acting _pro hac vice as the legislative body
of the District, and the Commissioners of the District discharge the functions of administrative officials.
There is no authority for holding that a mere administrative
officer of a municipal corporation, simply because of the absence
'of a statutory inhibition, has the power, without the consent of
the corporation speaking through its municipal legislative body,
to bind the corporation by a common law submission. And
this being true, with how much less reason can it be contended
that the administrative officers of the District have such power
without the consent of Congress, when the acts defining the
powers of the Commissioners, by clear and necessary 'implication, contain an express prohibition to the contrary ?

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. BAILEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor is it in reason sound. to say that because the District
Commissioners have the power to sue and be sued, they- have
therefore the authority to enter into a contract to submit a
claim preferred against the District to arbitration, and thus
to oust the courts of jurisdiction, when no authority is conferred upon the Commissioners to contract to pay a claim of
the character embraced in the arbitration, and no appropriation had been made by Congress for the payment of any such
claixh. It cannot be said that because Congress had appropriated for the improvement of streets, and therefore authorized.
a contract for such improvement to the extent of tht appropriation, that it had also authorized and appropriated for a
claim in damages asserted to have arisen from the fact that
work had been stopped because the appropriation made by
Congress had been exhausted. The appropriation of money
to improve streets was in no sense the appropriation of money
to pay a claim for unliquidated damages arising, not for work
and labor performed and materials furnished, but from the
refusal to permit the performance of work and labor and the
furnishing of materials.
Aside from the'prohibition imposed on the Commissioners
of the District by the acts of Congress against entering into
contracts for the payment of money for any clain not specifically appropriated for, an agreement to submit the claim in
question to the arbitrament of a single individual was, if valid,
a contract binding the District to pay any sum of money which
the arbitrator might award. It cannot be doubted that if the
District Commissioners themselves had seen fit to pass a resolution reciting that the appropriation by Congress for the
improvement of the streets had been exhausted, and that a
given sum of money was set aside to pay a claim for damages
preferred against the District for having contracted whenthere was no appropriation, stich action would have been,
under the statutes, ultra vires. But if the express action of
the Commissioners to this end would have been void, .how can
it be contended that by indirection, that is, by entering into
an agreement to submit to an award, the Commissioners had
the power to delegate to a third person an authority which
VOL. cxi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

they themselves did not possess? Whilst the fundamental
want of power in the District Commissioners to agree to a
common law submission is decisive, there is another view
which is equally so. By the express terms of the statute the
Commissioners are forbidden to enter into any contract binding the District for the payment of any sum of money in
excess of one hundred dollars, unless the same is reduced to
writing and is recorded in a book to be kept for that purpose,
and signed by all the Commissioners, the statute declaring, in
express terms, that no contract shall be valid unless recorded
as aforesaid. This mandatory provision of the statute clearly
makes the form in which a contract is embodied of the essence
of the contract. In other words, by virtue of the restrictions
and inhibitions of the statute a contract calling for an expenditure in excess of one hundred dollars cannot take effect unless made in the form stated. The form, therefore, becomes
a matter of fundamental right, and illustrates the application
of the maximforma dat esse Pei., That the mere statement
of the appointment of a referee on the minutes without the
signature of any of the Commissioners did not comply with
the requirements referred to; is too clear for discussion. The
attempt to give effect to such entry as a contract without regard to the requirements of 'the law illustrates the wisdom of
the statute and the evil of disregarding it, for on the trial tvo
of the three commissioners testified, one on behalf of the
plaintiff and the other on behalf of the defendant, and swore
to directly opposite views as to whether or not there had been
a common law submission by the Commissioners.
We have considered what has been referred to by counsel
as the order of the Commissioners, according to its terms,
which embraced only the matters contained in the action then
pending, and have .not regarded the parol evidence which
sought to vary and contradict the writing by establishing that
it was intended thereby to embrace a claim which had not
been asserted in the action. The views we have advanced
being decisive against the legality of the alleged award, it
follows that the judgment in favor of the administratrix based
thereon must be reversed. As, however, the consolidation of

YOUNG v. ANyY.
Opinion of the Court.

the action upon the award with the original action for damages for breach of the contract for the resurfacing, and the
trial of such consolidated cause, proceeded upon the hypothesis that a valid agreement to arbitrate had been entered
into, the ends of justice will be subserved by also reversing
the judgment in favor of the District entered in the original
action. It is therefore ordered that the judgments be
Reversed and the cases remanded, with directions to dismiss
the action Nio. 31,561r founded upon the alleged award, and
to grant a new trialin action ro. 24,279.

YOUNG v. AMY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 242.

Submitted April 27, 1595. -Decided

May 81, 1898.

On error or appeal to the Supreme Court of a Territory, this court is without power to reexamine the facts, and is confined to determining whether
the cburt below erred in the conclusions of law deduced by it from the
facts by it found, and to reviewing errors committed as to the admission
or rejection of testimony when the action of the court in this respect has
been duly excepted to, and the right to attack the same preserved on the
record.
There is no error in the conclusions of law in this case: all the assignments
of error, and the argument based thereon, rest on the assumption that
the findings of fact certified by the court below are not conclusive, and
that this court has the power, in order to pass upon the questions raised,
to examine the weight of the evidence, and to disregard the facts as
found.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ze Grand Young for appellants..
Mr. C. S. Varian, Mr. TV
Armntrong for appellee.

. Dickson and Mr. S. P.

MR. JusTiE WHrrE delivered the opinion of the court.

By section 17 of the act of Congress of July 16, 1894, c.
138, providing for the admission of Utah into the Union, 28

