OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
, Syllabus.

as provided in section twenty-two hundred and eighty-eight,'
which section provides-for alienation for ' church, cemetery or
school purposes, or for the right of way of railroads.' The
*law contemplates five years' continuous occupation by the
homesteader, with no alienation except for the named purposes. It is true that the sections contain no express prohibition of alienation, and no forfeiture in case of alienation; yet,
under them the homestead right cannot be perfected in case
of alienation, or contract for alienation, without perjury by
the homesteatder.

.

.

There can be no question that this

contract contemplated perjury on the part of Anderson, and
was designed to thwart the policy of the Government in the
homestead laws, to secure for the benefit of the homesteader
the exclusive benefit of his homestead right."
In the case at bar there was no statute which, in express
terms, or by any fair implication, forbade the maldng of such
a contract as that pi'oceeded on here.
Decree affinmed.

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 21. Argued April 20, 21, 188.-Decided October 81, 1898.
The statutes of the State of New York, providing that "Every corporation,
joint stock company or asspciation whatever, now or hereafter incorporated, organized or formed under, by'or pursuant to law in this State or
in any other State or country.and doing business in this State, except
only saving banks and institutions for savings, life insurance companies,

banks, foreign insurance companies, manufacturing or mining corporatlons or 6ompanies wholly engaged in carrying on manufacture or mining
ores within this State, and agricultural and horticultural societies or
associations, which exceptions, however, shall not include gas companies, trust'companies, electric or steam-heating, lighting and power companies, shall be liable to and shall paya tax as a tax upon its franchise or
'business into the state treasury annually, to -be computed as follows:"
and that "The amount of capital stock which shall be the basis for tax
in the case o.f every corporation, joint stock company and assoelatlon liable to taxation thereunder shall be the amount of capital stock

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.'
Statement of the Case.
employed within this State," as construed by the highest court of that
State, are not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
It must be regarded as finally settled by frequent decisions of this court,
that, subject to certain limitations as respects interstate and foreign
commerce, a State may impose such conditions upon permitting a foreign
corporation to do business within its limits as it may judge expedient;
and that it may make the grant or privilege dependent upon the,payment
of a specific license tax, or a sum proportioned to the amount of its capital used within the State.

PARKE, Davis & Company is the name of a 'corporation

organized under the laws of the State of Michigan for the
manufacture and sale of chemical and pharmaceutical preparations. The 'factory is situated in the city of Detroit. The
corporation has a warehouse and depot in the city of New
York, and. there keeps on hand varying quautities of its
manufactured products, which are there sold at wholesale in.
original packages. The concern is represented in New York
by John Clay as manager, who is paid a salary. The business of selling the .manufactured articles is carried on in all
respects like the ordinary sales of consigned goods. Clay, in
his own name, but for the use of the company, imports crude
drugs from foreign countries at the port of New York. Such
crude drugs are, in large part, sent to the Detroit -factory for
use, but some portions are sold in the original packages in
the city of New York.
'The corporation pays an annual rental for its place of business in New York of $12,500, employs there a force of over
fifty persons, and expended for the New York branch annually, for the years 1890 to 1894, inclusive, from $102,000 to
$172,000. The property Owned in. New York, in the way of
business fixtures, is valued at $15,000; the average stock of
goods sent from Michigan and carried in New York during
those years Was $50,000. It also employed in New York during that period a continuing capital, used in the purchase and
sale of crude drugs, of from $23,000 to $62,000 per year.
Upon this state of facts the comptroller of New York imposed for 1894, and five previous years, an annual tax based
upon the sum of $90,000 as "capital employed within the
State."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

At the time of the imposition of this tax the provisions -of
the statute here drawn in question were as follows (see. 3, chap.
542, Laws of 1880, as amended by Laws of 1881, chap. 361;
Laws of 1885, chap. 359 ; Laws of 1889, chaps. 193 and 353)
"Every corporation, joint stock company or association
whatever, now or hereafter incorporated, organized or formed
under, -by or pursuant to law in this State, or in any other
State or country and doing business in this State, except only
savings banks and institutions for savings, life insurance companies, banks, foreign insurance companies, manufacturing or
mining corporations or companies wholly engaged in carrying
on manufacture or mining ores within this State, and agricultural and horticultural societies or associations, which exceptions, however, shall not include gas companies, trust
companies, electric or steam heating, lighting and power companies, shall -be liable to, and shall pay a tax as a tax upon its
franchise or business into the state treasury annually, to be
computed as follows."
Then come provisions grading the tax according to annual
dividends. The tax originally fell upon the entire capital of a
corporation, but the statute was amended in 1885 so as to
read:
"The amount of capital stock which shall be the basis for
tax under the provisions of section three (supra) in the case of
every corporation, joint stock company and association liable.
to- taxation thereunder, shall be the amount of capital stock
employed within this State."
Parke, Davis & Company, through their said manager, filed
a petition in the New York Supreme Court, praying for a writ
of certiorari directed to the comptroller, in order to subject
his assessment to correction. In the petition it was alleged
that the only capital in any proper sense employed by the
company within the State of New York 'in the sale of its
products was its leasehold of the warehouse and the office
furniture and fixtures, not exceeding in'value $15,060; that
said company, being a manufacturing corporation, was exempt
from taxation under the laws of the State of New York; that
the comptroller erred in deciding that goods manufactured

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Opinion of the Court.

by said corporation and stored at its depot in Nev- York are
capital employed in said State within the meaning of the
statute.; that if said statute was correctly interpreted by the
comptroller, then said statute was unconstitutional and void
as in contravention of the Constitution of the United States
and the amendments thereof.
To the certiorari granted upon said petition the comptroller
duly made a returif'alleging that his acts and proceedings
were valid.
The cause was heard at the December term, 1895, of said
court, and judgment was entered quashing the writ of certiorari, and confirming the comptroller's assessment. From that
judgment an appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals of the
State of New York, and on June 9, 1896, the cause was heard,
the order and judgment of the Supreme Court were affirmed,
and the record remitted to the Supreme Court. 91 Hun, 158; 149 N. Y. 608.
Whereupon the cause was brought to this court by a writ
of error duly prayed for and allowed.
. r. 7ames .McJYeem for plaintiff in error.
Mr. T'. E. -Hancock,attorney general of the State of New
York for defendant in error. .Mr. William, HenryDenniswas
on his brief.
:Mr. Jusncn S=&s, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The construction put upon the statute of the State of New
York by its courts is, of course, binding upon this court, and
that portion of the contention which questioned the action of
'the comptroller on the ground of a misinterpretation of the
law is thus disposed of.
It must be regarded as finally settled by frequent decisions
of this court that, subject to certain limitations as respects interstate and foreign commerce, a-State may impose subh conditions upon permitting a foreign corporation to do business

OCTOBER TERMv,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

within its limits as it may judge expedient; and that it may
make the grant or privilege dependent upon the payment of
a specific license tax, or a sum proportioned to the amount of
its capital used within the State. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall.
168; Horn Silver -Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305.
Accordingly the counsel for the plaintiff in error disavows
inlhis brief any wish to bring those decisions into further review, but his contention is that this Michigan corporation,
having come within the jurisdiction of New York by compliance with all the provisions of law imposing conditions for
•transacting business within the State, is denied the equal protection of the law when subjected to a tax from which are
exempted other corporations, foreign and domestic, which
wholly manufacture the same class of goods within the State;
that such a tax is an unjust discrimination against this corporation, whose place of manufacture is in the State of Michigan. By this contention it is not meant, of course, that this
particular corporation is, in terms, discriminated against in the
New York statute, but that all corporations which manufacture their goods wholly in other States and send them for
sale in New York are discriminated against in favor of such
corporations, whether foreign or domestic, as manufacture.
their goods within the State of New York.
To sustain this contention. the well-known line of cases is
cited, wherein -this court has had to deal with state legislation imposing discriminating taxes against the products of
other States. Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Robbins
v. Shelby. County Taxing District 120 U. S. 489; Minnesota
v. Barber,136 U3. S. 313.
-If the object of the law in question -was' to impose a tax
upon products of other States, while exempting similar
domestic goods from taxation, there might be room to contend that such a distinction was constitutionally objectionable
as tending to affect or regulate commerce between the States.
But we think that obviously such is not the purpose of this
legislation. "Every corporation, joint stock company or association whatever, now or hereafter incorporated, organized
or formed under, by or pursuant to law in this State or in any

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Opinion of the Court.

other State or country and doing business in this State,
.

.

.

shall be liable to and shall pay a tax as a tax upon

its franchise or business into the state treasury annually, to
be computed as follows."
It will be perceived that the tax is prescribed as well for
New York corporations as for those of other States. It is true
that manufacturing or mining corporations wholly engaged in
carrying on manufacture or mining ores within the State of
New York are exempted from this tax; but such exemlption
is not restricted to New York corporations, but inuludes corporations of other States as well, when wholly engaged in
manufacturing within the State.
In construing this statute it was held, in the case of People
ex 'el. Blakinton Co. v. Roberts, 4- Appellate Div. 388, that
a New York corporation which carried on a manufacturing
business in. another State was liable to this tax; and this decision was affirmed by the New York Court of Appeals. 151
N. Y. 652.
The tax is graded according to annual dividends, and originally was assessed upon the entire capital of. a corporation;
but the statute.was amended in 1885 so as to read: "The
amount of capital stock which shall be the basis for tax under
the provisions of section three, in the case of every corporation,
joint stock company and association liable to taxation thereunder, shall be the amount of capital stock employed within
this State."
So that it is apparent that there is no purpose disclosed in
the statute either to distinguish between New York corporations and those of other States to the detriment of the latter,
or to subject property out of the State to taxation.
In the present case, indeed, complaint is made of the action
of the comptroller in determining the "amount of the capital
stock employed within-the State "-.that the amount fixed by
him was too large. The action of the comptroller was subject
to revision, and the corporation's complaints in respect thereto
were heard and passed upon by the Supreme Court of New
York. The estimate of the comptroller, in determining the
amount of capital employed in the State, would not be judi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

cially interfered with unless it, was clearly shown that the
same was erroneous; an'd, even then, such errors would not
present a Federal question for our consideration.
Nor can we consider the further contention that portions of
the business which were made the basis of the assessment were
,improperly treated as buqiness of the corporation, whereas"
they should have been regarded as pertaining to the personal
transactions of Mr. Clay, the company's agent. The true relation of Mr.; Clay to the corporation's business was one of
fact, in respect to which a hearing was afforded to the.corporation, and this court is in no position to enter into such an
inquiry.
A0gain, it is said that, even assuming that the importation
of crude drugs and their sale in the original packages constituted ' portion of the'corporate business, no tax could be imposed by the State under the doctrine of Brown v. Jaryland,
12 Wheat. 419.
But that case is inapplicable. Here no tax is sought to be
imposed'directly on imported articles or on their sale. This
is a tax imposed on the business of a corporation, consisting
in the storage and distribution of various kinds of goods, some
products of their own mhnufacture'and some imported articles.
From the very nature of the tax, being laid as a tax upon the
franchise of doing business as a corporation, it cannot be affected in any way by the character of the property in which.
its capital stock is invested. Society for Savings v. Coite, 6
Wall. '594; Provident Institution, v. MAaaehacusetts, 6 Wall.
611; Pembina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. '181;
Rlome Insurance Co. v. .7ew York, 134. U. S. 594.
When a corporation of one State, whose business is that of
a common carrier, transacts part of that business in other
States, difficult questions have arisen, and this court has been
called upon to decide whether certain -taxing laws of the respective States infringe upon the freedom of interstate commerce. It has been found difficult to prescribe a- satisfactory
rule whereby the Public burdens of taxation can be justly
apportioned between the business and agencies of such a corporation in different States, and the subject has been much

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Opinion of the Court.

discussed in several recent cases. TFestern Union, Telegraph
Co. v. .Massachusetts,125 .U.S. 530; Pittsburgh, Cincinnati,
ec. Railway v. Bacekus, 154 U. S.421 ; Pullman'sPalaceCar
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Adams .Ex ress'Co. v.
Ohio, 165 U. S. 194. It is not necesritry in this case to enter
into a subject so difficult, but the cases are referred to as
showing the distinction between corporations organized to
carry on interstate commerce, and having a quasi-public character, and corporations organized to conduct strictly private
business.
The corporation concerned in the present litigation is of the
latter character, and the case comes within the doctrine of
Paulv. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, and of subsequent cases affirming that one. Horn Silver .Mining Co. v. .New York, 143
'U.S. 305, may be specially mentioned, as it involved a similar
question and the same statutes which are before us in the
present case. The Horn Silver Mining Company was a corporation of the Territory of Utah, where it carried on a mining and manufacturing business. It also carried on business
in the State of New York, and was there subjected to an
annual tax upon its corporate franchise or business, as prescribed in the statute of the State of New York. The company refusing to pay the tax, proceedings to enforce its
payment were resorted to, which resulted in the case being
brought to this court, where some of the questions raised in
the present case were considered' and determined. The conclusions reached were that the law in question did not tax
property not within the State; nor regulate intQrstate commerce; nor deny to the corporation the equal rotect'r oj
f
the laws; nor impose a tax beyond the constitutlon9
power
of the State.
It is said that the operation of that portion of this taxing
law which exempts froma business tai corporations which are
wholly engaged in manufacturing within the State of New
York, is to encourage manufacturing corporations which seek
to do business in thi(t State to bring their plants .into New
York. Such ,nfy be the tendency of the legislation, but so
long as the ' rivilege is not restricted to New York corpora-

OCTOBER TERM,. 189&
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

tions, it is not perceived that thereby any ground is afforded
to justify the intervention of'the Federal courts.
The judgment of the Supreme Court Jf the State of New
York-is accordingly

Afirmed.
MR.-JvSTioE IHAmi.&,
BRowm, dissenting.

with whom concurred MR.

JUSTICE

It seems to me that the opinion and judgment in this case
are not in harmony with'former decisions of this court.
The comptroller of New York has imposed upon the plaintiff in error, a Michigan corporation doing business in New
York, an annual tax, for the year 1894 and the preceding five
years, upon the sum of $90,000 "as capital employed" in the
latter State. The authority for this tax was found in a statute
of New York providing that "every corporation, joint stock
company, or association whatever, now or hereafter incorpo-rated, organized or formed under, by or pursuant to law in this
State or in any other State or country, and doing business in
this State, except only savings banks and institutions for sav-:
ings, life insurance companies, banks, foreign insurance companies, manufacturing or mining corporations or companies
wholly engaged in carrying on manufactures or mining ores
within this State, and agricultural and horticultural societies
or associations, which exceptions, hodever, shall not include
gas companies, trust companies, electric or steam heating,
lighting and power companies, shall be liable to and shall pay.
a tax, as a tax upon its franchise or business, into the state
-treasury annually, to be computed as follows;" etc. Laws of
N. Y., 1889, June 4, c. 353, p. 467.
The goods sold by the plaintiff in error, by its agents in
New York, are manufactured in the State of Michigan. If
the plaintiff had been wholly engaged in carrying on manufacture in New York it would have been exempted by the statute
from the taxes in question.
,So that the question in this case is, whether it is competent
for New York to impose a tax upon the franchise or business

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.

66T

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

of manufacturing corporations or companies, foreign or domestic, not "wholly engaged" in carrying on manufacture
within its limits, while at the same time it exempts from such
taxation like corporations or companies wholly engaged in
carrying on manufactures in that State.
Is not such -legislation an injurious discrimination against
the manufacturing business and the manufactured goods of
other States, in favor of the manufacturing business and the
manufactured goods of New York, which is forbidden by the
Constitution of the United States? Let us see. The question
presented for consideration is of such importance as to justify
an extended reference to our former decisions.
In Woodruff v. Parkam, 8 Wall. 123, 140, it was contended
that a provision in the charter of the city of Mobile, Alabama.,
authorizing the collection of a tax on sales at auction, was'invalid in its application to auctioneers who sold in that State
in the original packages goods and imerchaudise the product
of States other than Alabama. This 'court said: "The case
before us is a simple tax on sales of merchandise, imposed alike
upon all sales made in Mobile, whether,the sales be made by a
citizen of AlAbama or of another State,'and whether the goods
sold are the produce of that State or -of some other. There
is no attempt to discriminate injuriously against the 'products
of other States or the rights of their citizens, and the case is
not therefore an attempt to fetter commerce among the States,
or to deprive the citizens of other States of any privilege or
immunity possessed by citizens of Alabama. But a law having such operation would, in our opinion, be an infringement
of the provisions of the Constitution which relate to those
subjects, and therefore void."
At the same term of the court Hinsoi v. Lott, 8 Wall. 148,
150, 151, 152, was decided. That case involved the validity
of a statute of Alabama declaring that "before it shall be
lawful for any dealer or dealers in spirituous liquors to offer
any such liquors for sale within the limits of this State, such
dealer or dealers introducing any such liquors iito the State
for sale shall first pay the tax collector of the county into
which such .liquors .are introduced, a tax of fifty cents per

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

gallon upon each and every gallon thereof." This court said:
"If this section [the one just quoted] stood alone in the legislation of Alabama on the subjecl of taxing liquors, the effect
of it would be that all such liquors brought into the State
from other States and offered for sale, whether in the original
casks by which they came into the State, or by retail in smaller
quantities, would be subject to a heavy, tax, while the same
class of liquors manufactured in the State would escape the tax.
It is obvious that the right to impose any such discriminating
tax, if it exist at all, cannot be limited in amount, and that
a tax under the same authority can as readily be laid wbich
would amount to an absolute prohibition to ell liquors introduced from without, while the privilege would remaia unobstructed in regard to articles made in the State. If this can
be done in reference to liquors, it can be done with reference
to all the products of a sister State, and in this mode one State
can establish a complete system of non-intercourse,in her commerciaZ relations with all the other States of the Union."
Again: "But while the case has been argued here with a
principal reference to the supposed prohibition against taxing
imports, it is to be seen from the opinion of the Supreme Court
of Alabama delivered in this case, that the clause of the Constitution which gives to Congress the right to regulate commerce among the States was supposed to present a serious objection to the validity of the Alabama statute. Nor can it be
doubted that a tax which so seriously affects the interchange
of commodities between the Statds as to essentially impede or
seriously interfere with it, is a regulation of commerce. And it
is also-true, as conceded in that opinion, that Congress has the
same right to r6gulate commerce among the States that it has
to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and that whenever
it exercisbs that power all conflicting state laws 4nust give
'way, and that if Congress had made any regulation covering
the matter in question we need inquire no further. That court
seems to have relieved itself of the objectionby holding that
the tax imposed by the State of Alabama was an exercise of the
concurrent right of regulating commerce remaining with the
State until some regulation on the subject had been made

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

by Congress. Bat, assuming the tax to be, as-we have supposed, a discriminating tax, levied exclusively upon the products of sister States, and looking to the consequences whichthe exercise of this power may produce if it be once conceded,
amounting, as we have seen, to a total abolition of all commercial intercourse between the States, under the cloak of the
taxing power, we are not prepared to admit that a State can
exercise such a power, though Congress ipay have failed to
act on the subject in any manner whatever." Referring to the
doctrine announced in Cooley y. PhiladelphiaP.ort Wardens,
12 How. 299, that there is a class of legislation of a general
nature affecting the commercial interests of all the States,
which, from its essential character, is national, and which
must, so far as it affects these interests, belong exclusively to
the Federal Government, the court said: "The tax in the
case before us, if it were of the character we have suggested,
discriminating adversely to .the products of all the other
States, in favor of those of Alabama, and involving a principle which might lead to actual commercial non-intercourse,
would, in our opinion, belong to that class of legislation,
and be forbidden by the clause of the Constitution just mentioned." Upon examining tho entire revenue statute of Alabama it was found that it did not injuriously discriminate
against the products of other States, and tb6 court said: "As
the effect of the act is such as we have described, and it institutes no legislation which discriminates against the people of
sister States, but merely subjects them to the same rate of
taxation which similar articles pay that are manufactured
within the State, we do not see in it an attempt to regulate
commerce, but an appropriate and legitimate exercise of the
taxing power of the States."
In f ard v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 429, the court held to
be unconstitutional a statute of Maryland, making i6 a penal
offence for any person, "not being a permanent resident" of
that State, to sell, offer or expose for sale, within the city of
Baltimore, any goods, wares or merchandise whatever, other
than agricultural products and articles manufactured in the
State of Maryland, without first obtaining a license so to do

OCTOBER TERAN, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ3.

-such license being fixed at $300 per year, while the license
fees or taxes required of resident traders were from $15 to
$150. The statute was adjudged to be void, because it discriminated against the people and products of other States.
After referring to some of the former decisions, this court
said: "Taxes, it is conceded in those cases, may be imposed
by a State on all sales made within the State, whether the
goods sold were the produce of the State imposing the tax,
or of some other State, provided the tax imposed'is uniform;
but the court at the same time decides in both cases that a
tax discriminating against the commodities of the citizens of
the other States of the Union would be inconsistent with the
provisions of the.Federal Constitution, and that the law imposing such a tax would be unconstitutional and invalid.
Such an exaction, called by what name it may be, is a tax
upon the goods or commodities sold, as the seller must add to
the price to compensate for the sum charged for the license,
which must be paid by the consumer olr by the seller himself;
and in either event the amount charged is equivalent to a
direct tax upon the goods or commodities. Imposed as the
exaction is upon persons not permanent residents in the State,
it is not possible to deny that the tax is discriminating with
any hope that the proposition could be sustained by the
court."
In Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 279, 281, the question was as to the validity of a statute of Missouri declaring that whoever should deal in the selling of patent and
other medicines, goods, wares and merchandise, except books,
charts, maps and stationery, which were "not the growth,
produce or manufacture of this State," by going from place
to place to sell the same, should be deemed a pedler, and
prohibiting him, under a penalty, from dealing as such without first obtaining a license, no license being required for
selling, "by going from place to place," the produce or manufacture of the State. The constitutionality of that statute
was sought to be maintained upon the ground that it was
only a tax upon a calling. The state court took that vibiv
of the statute, and observed that it was a calling limited to

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, J.

the sale of merchandise not the growth or product of -Missouri. But this court, after referring to Brown v. .Maryland,
12 Wheat. 419, 444, as holding an act of Maryland to be
in conflict with the Constitution of the United States because
it imposed a license tax upon the importer of foreign goods,
said: "So, in like manner, the license tax exacted by the
State of Missouri from dealers in goods which are not the
product or manufacture of the State, before they can be sold
from place to place within the State, must be regarded as a
taX upon 8UCA good8 themselves; and the question presented
is, whether legislation thus discriminating against the produets of other States in the conditions of their sale by a certain
class of dealers is valid under the Constitution of the United
States." The question thus presented was solved by the
judgment of this court declaring the legislation of Missouri
to be unconstitutional. It was further said: "If Missouri can
require a license tax for the sale by travelling dealers of goods
which are the growth, product or manufacture of other States
or countries, it may require such license tax as a condition of
their sale from ordinary merchants, and the amount of the
tax will be a matter resting exclusively in its discretion. The
power of the State to exact A license tax of any amount being
admitted, no authority would remain in the United States or
in this court to control its action, however unreasonable or
oppressive. Imposts operating as an absolute exclusion of the
goods would be possible, and all the evils of discriminating
state legislation, favorable to the interests of one State and
injurious to the interests of other States and countries, which
existed previous to the adoption of the Constitution, might
follow, and the experience of the last fifteen years shows
would follow, from the action of some of the States."
The case of Guy v. Baltimore,100 U. S.434,439, 443, is much
in point. That case involved the validity of certain ordinances
of the mayor and council of Baltimore based upon an act of
the General Assembly of Maryland authorizing the mayor and
city council of Baltimore to regulate, establish, charge and
collect, to the use of the said mayor and city council, such
rate of wharfage as they deemed reasonable, "of and from all

OCTOBER TERM.N,

1898.

Dissenting Opinion: Harlam, Brown, JJ.

vessels resorting to or lying at, lauding, depositing or 'transporting goods or articles other than the productions of this
State, on any wharf or wharvesbelonging to said mayor and
city council, or any public wharf in the said city, other than
the wharves belonging to or rented by the State."
This court, after referring to the previous cases of Woodruff
v. Parham,Hinson v. Lott and Ward v. XAaryland, said: "In
view of these and other decisions of this court, it must be regarded as settled that no State can, consistently with the
Federal Constitution, impose upon the products of other States,
brought therein for sale or use, or upon citizens because engaged in the, sale therein, or the transportation thereto, of the
products of other States, more onerous public burdens or taxes
than it imposes upon the like products of its own territory.
If this were not so,' it is esy to perceive how the power of
Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations and
among the several States could be practically annulled, and
the equality of commercial privileges secured by.the Federal
Constitution to citizens of the several States be materially
abridged and impaired."
In the argument of that case it was contended that the city,
by virtue of its ownership of the wharves in question, had the
right, in its discretion, to permit their free use to all vessels
landing at them with the products of Maryland ; and that
those operating vessels laden with the products of other
States, cannot justly complain, so long as they are-not required
to pay -wharfage fees in excess of reasonable compensation for
the use of the city's property. The court said: "This proposition, however ingenious, or plausible, is unsound both upon
principle and authority. The municipal corporation of Baltimore was created by the State of Maryland to promote the
public interests and the public convenience. The wharf at
which appellant landed his vessel was long ago dedicated to
public use. The public for whose benefit it was acquired, or
who are entitled to participate in its use, are not alone those
who may engage in the transportation to the port of Baltimore of the products of Maryland. It embraces, necessarily,
all engaged in trade-and commerce upon the public navigable

.NhEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

waters of the United States. Every vessel employed in suchtrade and commerce may traverse those waters without let or
hindrance from local or state authority; aid the national
Constitution secures to all so employed, without referenbe to
the residence or citizenship of the owners, the privilege of
landing at the port of Baltimore with any cargo whatever,
not excluded therefrom by or under the authority of some
statute in Maryland enacted in the exertion of its police
powers. The State, it will be admitted, could not lawfully
impose upon such cargo any direct public burden or tax because it may consist, in whole or in part, of the products of
other States. The concession of such a power to the States
would render wholly nugatory all national control of commerce among the States, and place the trade and business of
the country at the mercy of local regulations, having for their,
object to secure exclusive benefits to the citizens and products.
of particular States. But it is claimed that a State may empower one of its political agencies, a mere municipal corpo-.
ration representing a portion of its civil power, to burden
interstate commerce by exactihg from those transporting to
its wharves the products of other States wharfage fees which
it does not exact from those bringing to the same wharves the
products of Maryland. The city can no more do this than it
or the State could discriminate against the citizens and products of other States in the use of the public streets or other
public highways.
Municipal corporations owning
wharves upon the public navigable waters of the United
States, and quasi-public corporations transporting the products
of the country, cannot be permitted by discriminations of that
character to impede commercial intercourse and traffic among
the several States and with foreign nations. In the exercise
of its police powers a State may exclude from its territory or
prohibit .the sale therein of any articles which, in its judgment,
fairly exercised, are prejudicial to the health or would endanger the lives or property of its people. But if the State,
under the guise of exerting its police powers, 'hould make
such exclusion or prohibition applicable solely to articles of
that kind that may be produced or manufactured in other
.

VOL. cxxxi-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

States, the courts would find no difficulty in holding such
legislation to be in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States."
In .MacIine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676' 619, a statute of
Tennessee imposing a license tax upon all pedlers of sewing
machines was sustained, as not in violation of the Federal
Constitution, because it applied "alike to sewing machines
manufactured in the State and out of it." This court said:
"In all cases of this class to which the one before us belongs,
it is a test question whether there is any discrimination ifn
favor of the State or of the citizens of the State which enacted
the law. Wherever there is such discrimination it is fatal.
Other considerations may.-lead to the same result. In the case
before us, the statute in question, as construed by the Supreme
Court of the State, makes no such discrimination. It applies
alike to sewing machines manufactured in the State and out
of it. The exaction is not an unusual or unreasonable one.
The State, putting all such machines upon the same footing
with respect to the tax complained of, had an unquestionable
right to impose the burden. Woodruff v. Parham, finson
v. "Lott,Ward v. .Maryland,Welton, v. .Missouri,supra."
Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S.344, 350, is also very much in
point. That case involved the validity of a statute of Virginia
providing that "any person who shall sell, or -offer for sale,
the mianufactured articles or machines of other States or Territories, unless he be the owner thereof and taxed as a merchant, or take orders therefor, on commission -or otherwise,
shall be deemed to be An agent for the sale of manufactured
articles of other States and Territories, aid should not act as
such without taking out a license therefor. No such person
shall, under his license as such, sell or offer to sell such articles
through the agency of another; but a separate license shall
be required from an agent or employ6 who may sell or offer
to sell such articles for. another. For any violation of this
section, the person offending shall pay a fine-of not less than
fifty dollars nor more than one hundred dollars for each
offence. The specific license tax upon an agent for the sale
of any manufactured article or machine of other States or

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

Territories shall be twenty-five dollars; and this tax shall give
to any party licensed under this section the right to sell the
same within the county or corporation in which he shall take
out his license; and if he shall sell or offer to sell the same
in any other of the, counties or corporations of this State,
he shall pay an additiofial tax of ten dollars in each of the
counties or corporations where he may sell or offer to sell
the same.. All persons other than resident inanufacturers
or their agents, selling articles manufactured in this State,
shall pay the specific license tax imposed by this section."

45, 46.
This court said: "By these sections, read together, we have
this result: the agent for the sale of articles manufactured in
other States must first obtain a license to sell, for which he is
required to pay a specific tax for each county in which he
sells or offers to sell them; while the agent for the sale of
articles manufactured in the State, if acting for the manufacturer, is not required to obtain a license or pay any license
tax. Here there is a clear discrimination in favor of home
manufacturers and against the manufacturers of other States.
Sales by manfifacturers are chiefly effected through agents.
A tax upon their agents when thus engaged is, therefore, a
tax upon them, and if this is made to depend upon the foreign
character of the articles, that is, upon their having been manufactured without the State, it is to that extent a regulation of
commerce in the articles between the States. It matters not
whether the tax be laid directly upon the articles sold or in
the form of licenses for their sale. If by reason of their foreign character the State can irrpose a tax upon them or -upon
the person through whom the sales are effected, the amount
of the tax will be a matter resting in her discretion. She may
place the tax at so high a figure as to exclude the introduction
of the foreign article and prevent competition with the home
product. It was against legislation of this discriminating kind
-that the framers of the Constitution intended to guard when
they vested in Congress the power. to regulate commerce
among the several States."
In Mallingv. Michigan,116 U. S. 446,459, 461, the principal

OCTOBER- TERN, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

question was as to the validity of certain legislation in Michi-

-

gan which, it was contended, discriminated against the manufactured-products of other States. This court held the Michigan statute to be invalid, saying: "It is suggested by the
learned judge who delivered the opinion of the Supreme Court
of Michigan in this case, that the tax imposed by the act of
1875 is an exercise by the legislature of Michigan of the police
power of the State for the discouragement of the use of intoxicating liquors, and the preservation of the, health and
morals of the people. This would be a perfect justification of
the act, if it Aid not discriminate against the citizens and products of other States in a matter of commerce between the
States, and thus usurp one of the prerogatives of the national
legislature. The police power cannot be set up to control the
inhibitions of the Federal Constitution, or the 'powers of the,
United States Government created thereby. New OrleansGas
Co. v. -Louisianaz Zight Co., 115 U. S. 650.
Another
argument used by the Supreme Court of Michigan in favor of
the validity of the tax is, that it is merely a tax on an occupation, which, it is averred, the State has an undoubted right to
impose, and reference is made to Brown v. .2arlahd,12
Wheat. 419, 444; Nathan v. Louisiana, 8 How. 73, 80; Pierce
v. New Hampshire,5 How. 593 ; tinson v. Lott,8'Wall. 148;
Machine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676.. .None of these cases, however, sustain, the doctrine that an occupation can be taxed if
the tax is so specialized as to operate as a discriminative burden against the introductionand sale of the products of another
State, 'r against the citizens of another State."
In Brimmer v. .Lebran,138 U. S.78, 81, 83, the question
was as to the validity of a statute relating to the sale of meats
in Virginia. This court said: "The recital in the preamble
that unwholesome meats were boing offered for sale in Virginia cannot exclude the question of the conformity of the act
to the Constitution. . . . Is the statute now before us
liable to the objection that, by its necessary operation, it interferes with the enjoyment of rights granted or secured by
the Constitution? This question admits of but one answer.
The statute is, in effect, a prohibition upon the sale in Virginia

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

of beef, veal or mutton, although entirely wholesome, if from
animals slaughtered one hundred miles or over from the place
of sale. We say prohibition, because the owner of such meats
cannot sell them in Virginia until they are inspected there;
and being required to pay the heavy charge of- one cent per
pound to the inspector, as his compensation, he cannot compete, upon equal terms, in the markets of that Commonwealth,
with those in the same business whose meats, of like kind,
from animals slaughtered within less than one hundred miles
from the place of sale, are not subjected to inspection at all.
Whether there shall be inspection or not, and whether the
seller shall compensate the inspector or not, is thus made to
depend entirely upon the place where the animalsfrom which
the beef, veal or mutton is taken, were slaughtered. Undoubtedly, a State may establish regulations for the protection of
its people against the sale of unwholesome meats, provided
such-regulations do not conflict with the powers conferred by
the Constitution upon Congress; or infringe rights granted or
secured by that instrument. But it may not, under the guise
of exerting its police powers, or of enacting inspection laws,
make discriminationsagainst the products and -industries of
some of the States in favor of the products and industries of
its own or other States. The owner of the meats here in question, although they were from animals slaughtered in Illinois,
had the.right, under the Constitution, to compete in the mar'kets of Virginia upon terms of equality with the owners of
like meats, from animals slaughtered in Virginia or elsewhere
within one hundred miles from the place of sale. Any local
regulation which, in terms oi? by its necessary operation,
denies this equality in the markets of a State is, when applied
to the people and products or industries of other States, a
direct burdeii upon commerce among the States, and, therefore, void. Weltom v. .Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 2 1; Railroad
Go. v. Iusen, 95 U. S. 465;. Minnesota v. Barber,above cited.
The fees exacted, under the Virginia statute, for the inspection of beef, veal and mutton, the product of animals slaughtered one hundred miles or more.from the place of sale, are,
in reality, a tax; and, 'a discriminating tax imposed by a

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan,- Brown, JJ.

State, operating to the disadvantage of the product of other
States when introduced into the first-mentioned State, is, in
effect, a regulation in restraint of commerce among the States,
and, as such, is a usurpation tof the powers conferred by the
Constitution upon the Congress of the United States.'
Malt
ing v. Michigan, 116 U. S.446, 455. Nor can this statute be
brought into harmony with the Constitution by the circumstance that it purports to apply alike to the citizens of all the
States, including Virginia; for, 'a burden imposed by a State
upon interstate commerce is not to be sustained simply because the statute imposing it applies alike to the people of all
the States, including the people of the State enacting such
statute.' -Minnesotav. Barber,above cited; Ro6bins v. Shelby
Taxing District, 120 U. S. 487, 489. If the object of Virginia had been, to obstruct the bringing into that State, for
use as human food; of all beef, veal and mutton, however
wholesome, from animals slaughtered in distant States, that
pbject will be accomplished if the statute before us be
enforced."
In Emert v. .Missouri,156 U. S.,296, 311, a Missouri statute,
requiring the payment of a license tax by pedlers, was held
to apply to the sale by pedlefs in Missouri of sewing machines
made in other States, and not to be a regulation of interstate
commerce. The decision was placed upon the ground that the
statute made no discrimination against the goods of other
States as compared With domestic goods.
I am unable to reconcile the opinion and judgment in the
preseht case with the principles announced in the above cases.
A tax upon the capital employed by a manufacturing corporation or company is pro tanto a tax upon the goods manufactured by it. If this be not so, there are many expressions in,
the former opinions of this court which should be withdrawn
or modified. A corporation or company wholly engaged in
manufacture in New York has an advantage, in the sale of its
goods in the markets of that State, over a corporation or company manufacturing like goods inother States, if the former'
is altogether exempted from taxation in respect of its franchise or business, and the latter subjected to taxation of its

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

franchise or business measured by the amount of its capital
employed in New York. That State may undoubtedly. tax
capital employed within its limits by corporations or companies of other States, but it cannot impose restrictions that
will necessarily prevent such corporations or companies from
selling their goods in New York upon terms of equality with
corporations or companies wholly engaged there in manufacturing goods of like kind. By this statute New York says to
the manufacturing corporations and companies of other States:
"Remove your plant to New York, and the capital employed
by you in thig State shall be exempt from taxation. But if
you persist in keeping your plant where it is already established, your franchise or business shall be taxed upon the
basis of the capital employed by you in New York, while the
capital of similar corporations or companies wholly engaged
in manufacturing in New York, shall be exempt from taxation." Observe, that the statute of New York does not apply
exclusively to corporations. It applies equally to companies.
In my judgment, this statute cannot be sustained in its
application to the plaintiff in error without recognizing the
power of New York, so far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, to enact such statutes as will, by their necessary operation, amount to a tariff protecting goods manufactured in that
State against competition in the markets there with goods
manufactured in other States. And if such legislation as is
embodied in the statute in question is held to be consistent
with the Federal Constitution, why may not New York, while
exempting from taxation the franchise or business of corporations or companies wholly engaged in carrying on their manufacturing in that State, put such taxation upon the franchise
or business of corporations or companies doing business in that
State, but not wholly engaged in manufacture there, as will
amount to an absolute prohibition upon the sale in New York
of the goods manufactured in other States? If each State in
the Union should enact a statute exempting from taxation the
franchise and business of corporations or companies wholly engaged in carrying on manufacture within its limits, but taxing the franchise or business of corporations or companies

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

whose manufacturing is carried on -inother States, it is easy
to see that commerce among the States Would .be as much at
the mercy of discriminating state legislation 'as it was under
-the Articles of Confederation, when, as Mr. Justice Story well
said, the Government established to conserve the interests of
the people of all the States-was -competent to declare everything, but was without power to do anything. While the
authority of the National Government to lay duties upon
goods brought from foreign countries into this country so as
to build up and protect American industries has been recognized, I had not supposed it was competent for any State of
the Union to exert its power of taxation so as to build up and
protect its local industries by means of injurious discriminations against the industries of other States. I had supposed
that the Constitution of the United States had established
absolute free trade among the States of the Union, and that
"freedom from injurious discrimination in the markets of any
State, against goods manufactured in this country, was a Vital
principle of constitutional law.
The opinion of the court in this case says: "If the object of
the law in question was to impose a tax upon products of other
States, while exempting similar domestic goods from taxation,
there. might be room to contend that such a distinction was
constitutionally objectionable as tending to affect or regulate
commerce between the States. But we think that obviously
such is not the Tuzpose of this legislation. 'Every corporation, joint stock company or association whatever, now or
hereafter incorporated, organized or formed under, by or pursuant to law in this State or in any other State or country and
doing business in this State, . . . shall be liable to and shall

pay a tax as a tax upon its franchise or business into the state
treasury annually, to be computed as follows.' It will beperceived that the tax is prescribed as well for New York corporations as for those of other States. It is true that manufacturing or mining corporations wholly engaged in carrying
on manufacture or mining ores within the State of New York
are exempted from this tax; but such exemption is not restricted to New York corporations, but includes corporations

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

of other States as well, when wholly engaged in manufacture
within the State."
I submit that the validity of state legislation, as affected by
the Constitution of the United States, is not to be determined
altogether by what is supposed to be the "object" or "purpose" of such legislation, if by object or purpose is meant the
motive which controlled members of the state legislature
when they enacted such legislation. In a legal sense the
object or purpose of legislation is to be determined by its
natural and reasonable effect, whatever may have been the
motives upon which legislators acted. Henderson v. MAa'yor of
NSew York, 92 U. S. 259. This has often been adjudged by
this court, "There may. be no purpose," this court has said,
"upon the part of a legislature to violate the provisions of
that instrument, and yet a statute enacted ,by it, under the
forms of law, may, by its necessary operation, be destructive: of rights granted or secured by the Constitutiorn;" in
which case, " the courts must sustain the supreme law of the
land by declaring the statute unconstitutional and void.'"
.Minnesotav. Barber,136 U. S. 313, 319, and authorities there
cited. Can it be doubted that, v;hatever may have been the
ostensible object for which the New York statute was passed,
the natural and reasonable effect of the statute is to withhold
from goods not manufactured in New York-and because
they were not there 7n anufactured-thatequality in the markets of New York which, we have often said, is secured by the
National Constitution to the like products of other States?
If the plaintiff corporation can be taxed on its capital employed in Ne* York in the business of selling its goods, manufactured in Michigan, while capital employed in New York by
a like manufacturing corporation is exempted from taxation
because, and only because, it is wholly engaged in manufacture in that State, is it possible to deny that such legislation
injuriously discriminates against the manufactures of Michigan
in favor of the like manufactures of New York?
My brethren refer to the general rule that it is competent
for a State to prescribe the conditions upon which corporations
of other States may do business within its limits. But I sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
-Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

mit that that rule, however broadly stated, has no application
here. The New York statute has not assumed to prescribe
any rule applicable alike to all manufacturing corporations
or companies of other States. It exempts from taxation all
corporations or companies, whether of New York or of other
States, that wholly carry on their manufacturing business in
New York. Thus a distinction is made between manufactur*ing corporations and companies by exempting from taxation
on their capital employed in New York those, and those only,
that wholly carry on their manufacturing in that'State. Besides, this court has never, in any case, adjudged that the
power -6f a State to prescribe the conditions upon which the
corporations of other States may do business within its limijs
can be exerted by legislation that directly, or by its necessary
operation, discriminates injuriously against the products of
other States in favor of the products of such State. On the
contrary, in the cases above cited, it has directly adjudged that
ouch legislation was unconstitutional. It is not necessary for
me now to question the soundness of the general proposition
that a State may prescribe the conditions upon which corporations of other States may come within its limits for purposes
of business. A good deal may depend upon'the nature of the
business in which the foreign corporation -is engaged. But I
do question the power of any State to exact a tax from corporations or companies not wholly engaged in manufacturing
within its limits, if it exempts from such taxation corporations
and companies wholly engaged, and only because they are
wholly engaged, in manufacturing in such S.t~te. If this be
not a sound view of the Constitution, it -follows that local tax
laws may be so framed as to destroy the principle, frequently
announced and often recognized by this court, that the Products of the respective States may go ifito the markets of the
country without being discriminated against because of the
place of their origin.
The only case which seems to give any support whatever to
the opposite view is Horn Silver"Mining Co. v. Zfew York, 143
U. S.305. Bat a careful examination of the report of that case
and of the opinion shows that counsel did not present, nor did

NEW YORK STATE v. ROBERTS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, JJ.

the,court consider or determine, the precise point here presented, as to the authority of the State to exercise the power
of taxation so as to place burdens upon goods, the manufacture of other States, solely because they were not produced,in
the State imposing the taxation.
Some stress seems to belaid upon the fact that the exemption given by the statute to corporations or companies wholly
engaged in carrying on manufactures or in mining ores within
the State of New York is not limited to corporations or companies of that State; but that the exemption is allowed to
such corporations or companies of other States as- may carry
on their manufacturin~r or mining business wholly in New
York. This view falls far short of meeting the difficulty presented, namely, that the statute, by its necessary operation,
injuriously discriminates against goods manufactured in other
States, in that such goofs are not pei'mitted to go into the
markets of New York and compete there upon equal terms
with like goods wholly manufactured in that State. This
court has often safd that the objection. that a local statute
was invalid, as restraining or binding commerce among the
States, was not met by the suggestion that it operated equally
upon citizens of the State which enacted it.
I am of opinion that the statute of New York in its application to the plaintiff in error is inconsistent witli the power
of Congress to regulate commerce among the States, and with
that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, which pfohibits any
State from denying to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws. It is well settled that corporations are persons within the meaning of that clause of the
Constitution. Snytk.v. Anes, 169 U. S. 466, 522.
For the reasons stated, I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.
MR. JusTicE

Bnowx authorizes me to say that he concurs in

this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE WnrrE was not present at the argument, and
took no part in the decision of the case.

