PIERCE v. SOMERSET RAILWAY.
Counsel for Parties.

ute, there being no legitimate children, illegitimate children
inherit.
It appears that on March 19, 1875, and while MIetzger was
living, the mother of these plaintiffs, then minors, in her own
right and for the minors, receipted and relinquished all claims
against him. Without stopping to consider what was meant
by that release, and giving to it all the scope which its language may suggest, we remark that a natural guardian has
no power to release the claim of a ward to an inheritance
without the sanction of some tribunal. Woerner's American
Law of Guardianship, p. 185, and following.
The decree is
Affirmed.
PIERCE v. SOMERSET RAILWAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF MAINE.
No. 12. Argued October 11, 12, 189.-Decded October 31, 1898.
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, affirmed and followed to the points:
(1) That to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state
court, it must appear affirmatively, not only that a Federal question was presented for decision by the state court, but that its
decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that
it was decided adversely to the party claiming a right under the
Federal laws or Constitution, or that the judgment, as rendered,
could not have been given without deciding it;
(2) That where the record discloses that, if a question has been raised
and decided adversely to a party claiming the benefit of a provision of the Constitution or laws of the United States, another
question, not Federal, has been also raised and decided against
such party, and the decision of the latter question is sufficient,
notwithstanding the Federal question, to sustain the judgment,
this court will not review the judgment.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Hr. D. D. Stewart for plaintiffs in error.
was with him on the brief.

Mr. E. B. Cleaves

3&. Edmund F. IFebb and -Mr. Josiah H. Drummond for
TOL. CLXXI-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

defendants in error. XMr. Joseph WF. Symonds was with them
on the brief.
Mr. JUsTICE PF.KFKrm delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error directed to the Supreme Judicial
Court of the State of Maine, for the purpose of reviewing a
judgment of that court in favor of the defendant in error,
who was plaintiff below. 88 Maine, 86-100. The facts necessary to an understanding of the case are as follows:
The Somerset Railroad Company was organized in 1871,
pursuant to an act of the legislature of the State of Maine,
for the purpose of building and operating a railroad between
Oakland, in the county of Kennebec, and Solon, in the county
of Somerset, in that State. In order to obtain the money
to build its road, the company, on the first day of July, 1871,
executed a mortgage to three trustees, covering its railroad
and franchises and all its real estate and personal property
then possessed by it or to be thereafter acquired. By the
terms of the mortgage the trustees were to hold in trust for
the holders of the bdnds of the railroad compahy, to be issued
by it, payable as therein mentioned. The company thereupon issued and sold its bonds, secured by the mortgage, to
the amount of $450,000, with proper coupons for interest
attached, payable semi-annually on the first days of January
and July in each year, at the rate of seven per cent, the principal of the bonds becoming due on the first of July, 1891.
The proceeds of the sale of these bonds were applied to the
building, equipping and operating of the road from Oakland
to North Anson, a station between Oakland and the proposed
terminus of the road at Solon: In 1876 the road had been
completed as far as the village of Anson, twenty-five miles
from Oakland, and it was opened and its - cars commenced
running in that year between those points. The company continued to so operate its road until September, 1883. It had,
however, become insolvent some time prior to April 1, 1883,
and at that time its coupons for interest on the bonds secured
by the above-mentioned mortgage had been unpaid for more

PIERCE v. SOMERSET RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

than three years. At the time when this mortgage was given
corporations could be formed by the holders of bonds secured
by a railroad mortgage in the manner provided for by the statute. Chap. 51, Rev. Stat. Maine, 1871. In,1878, seven years
after the execution of the mortgage, the provision for the formation of corporations by the holders of bonds was extended so
as to -include the case of railroad corporations where the principal of the bonds should have remained overdue for the space
of three years, and by an act of March 6, 1883, the provision
was still further extended so as to apply to the case in which
no interest had been paid thereon for more than three years.
By virtue of the provisions of the Revised Statutes of 1871,
as amended and extended by the statutes of 1878 and 1883
(both statutes as will be seen being subsequent to the execution of' the mortgage), the holders of bonds of the Somerset
Railroad Company, following the method provided by those
statutes, on the 15th day of August, 1883 formed a new
corporation under the name of 'the Somerset Railway. The
capital stock of this new corporation was $736,648.76, made
up of the principal of $450,000 of the unpaid outstanding
bonds and $286,648.76 of interest thereon up to the 15th of
August, 1883. This was in accordance with the provisions
of the statute that the new company should issue the capital
stock to the holders of the bonds, secured by the mortgage, in.
the proportion of one share of stock for each one hundred dollars' worth of bonds and interest. On the 1st of September,
188a, the Somerset Railway took possession of the railroad
from Oakland to Anson (which was as far as it had then been
coinpleted), and of all the other property embraced in the
mortgage, and'it has ever since held and operated the same.
Its capital stock was divided into shares of one hundred dollars each to the amount of the bonds and overdue coupons as
the law provided. The stockholders of the old company had
previously on the 13th of July, 1883, at their annual meeting,
voted that the bondholders should organize a new corporation under the statutes.of the State, and take possession of the
railroad, and at the same meeting voted to surrender possession
of the road to the new corporation, the Somerset Railway.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The holders of a very large majority of these bonds, including some held by the parties in whose interest the plaintiffs
in error now act, participated in the formation of this corporation, but the holders of all the bonds did not so participate,
a majority being sufficient under the statute for the regular
formation of the corporation. Bonds largely exceeding a
majority of those which were issued under the mortgage
were surrendered to the Somerset Railway and art now
held by it- and the stock issued therefor, the amount being
at the time the suit herein was instituted $339,400, and the
amount of bonds not surrendered was $110,600, not counting
overdue coupons.
From the time the new company took possession of the railroad it has continued to operate it as far as it was then completed, and it has also extended the same some sixteen miles,
and as extended it has continued to operate it.
To obtain the funds necessary for the completion of the sixteen miles of extension the new company, under what is
claimed to be due authority of law, issued its bonds on the
1st day of July, 1887, to the amount of $225,000, payable in
twenty years from their date, and to secure payment of the
same mortgaged its entire railroad from Oakland to Bingham,
forty-one miles. These bonds were sold by the company and
the proceeds applied towards the completion of the road.
The mortgage given by the S6merset Railroad Company in
1871 included the roadbed from Oakland to the terminus of
the road in Solon. The mortgage given by the new company
in 1887 embraced the railroad so far as it had been constructed
by the old company, as well as the sixteen miles constructed
by the new company after it took possession of the road.
The giving of this mortgage in 1887 was a matter of public
notoriety, well known to the trustees of the original mortgage,
and no objection was made in behalf of any one; on the contrary, the trustees stood by and saw this mortgage of 1887
given and the bonds sold to innocent parties and the money
expended in extending the railroad sixteen miles, and it was
not until more than five years afterwards, when the road had
been built and completed and was in operation to Bingham,
that the trustees took action.

PIERCE v. S0OMERSET RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

In December, 1892, the trustees in the mortgage of 1871
commenced two actions at law, one in each of two counties in
which the railroad was situated, in which actions the president
of the new corporation, its superintendent, treasurer, accountant and various station agents and conductors were made parties
defendant because they were in possession of the road, and the
plaintiffs, trustees, claimed to recover from the defendants, as
disseizors, the possession of the railroad, and from the defendants, as individuals, the sum of $180,000 as niesne profits.
The ground upon which the trustees based their action was
that the new company was never legally organized ; that by
the terms of the mortgage the trustees alone could take proceedings to foreclose the mortgage, and that the acts of the
legislature passed subsequently to the execution of the mortgage, and under which the new, company was formed, could
and did have no validity as against the contract rights of the
plaintiffs, secured to them by,the law as it stood at the time
of the execution of the mortgage of 1871.
Upon these facts and many others which are not now
material to be stated, the new company commenced this suit
in equity against the trustees in the mortgage of 1871, who
were plaintiffs in the two actions at law, to enjoin the further
prosecution of those actions and for other relief as mentioned
in their complaint. In this suit the new company alleged
(among other things) that the trustees in the mortgage of
1871 and their successors had stood by, allowed and encouraged the formation of the new company and the surrendering
of the bonds and the issuing of the stock in lieu thereof, and
also the execution of the mortgage by the new company to
secure the payment of $225,000 borrowed for the extension of
its road; also the contracting of debts and the expending of
large amounts of money in useful repairs and improvements,
and that all this was done without the trustees making
known to the new company that they or those whom they
represented as bondholders had any claim or cause of action
against the new company, and the complainants therefore
averred that the trustees and those whom they represented
had been guilty of such delay and laches as to estop them

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

from denying the validity of the new corporation or its title
or possession. The new company also alleged the entire
-validity of the proceeding resulting in its formation.
Answering that complaint, the trustees denied that the new
company was ever established under any law of Maine; they
denied that it ever had any legal organization or any legal
existence; they denied that the mortgage of July.1, 1871, had
ever been legally foreclosed, and they alleged that neither the
original board of trustees named in the mortgage, nor their
successors, had ever taken any steps towards a legal foreclosure or had ever determined that there had been a breach
of the conditions of that mortgage, and that the attempted
foreclosure of that mortgage was in violation of the contract
rights secured to the trustees thereunder at the time of its
execution, and the attempted foreclosure of that mortgage
was therefore utterly void; they denied that any statute of
the State had been enacted, or could be enacted, which would
or could deprive the bondholders or trustees of the rights secured to them by virtue of their contcac. of July 1, 1871, and
the laws of the State in force when the contract was made.
They alleged that the contract rights of all the parties to the
mortgage of July 1, 1871, were fixed by the laws in force when
the mortgage was executed, and that no law of the State of
]Maine then existing authorized the organization of the new
corporation in the manner attempted herein, and that the laws
then existing formed a part of the mortgage contract and provided a mode by which the mortgage could be legally foreclosed
and a new company formed for the benefit of all the bondholders, and they alleged that the rights of the bondholders who
who took no part in the formation of the new company were
fixed by the mortgage contract and could not be affected in any
way, except by payment. Various other matters were set up
in their answer which it is not now necessary to mention.
The Supreme Judicial Court of -Maind upon these issues
held: "(1) That the new company was legally organized;
that the various acts of the legislature of Maine, passed subsequently to the execution of the mortgage, did not impair
the obligations of the contract contained in the mortgage,

PIERCE v. SOMERSET RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

but simply afforded a more convenient and quicker remedy
for a violation of the agreement and for the foreclosure of the
mortgage than existed at the time of its execution"; (2) the
court also stated and held as follows: "The new corporation
took possession of the mortgaged property on the first day of
September 1883, and has ever since held it and operated the
railroad. This action was authorized by the statute, consented to by the Somerset Railroad Companr, the mortgagor,
actively proposed and aided by one at least of the trustees,
and ever since acquiesced in by all the trustees. It is too
late for the trustees or dissenting bondholders now to object to
technical irregularities, if any exist, especially as the Somerset
Railway has since extended the railroad from North Anson
to Bingham, a distance of about sixteen miles; built a branch
railroad of one mile in length of great importance to the productiveness of the main line, placed a mortgage upon the road
for $225,000 to make these extensions and other improvements, and in other' ways materially changed the condition
and relations of all parties interested in the road. Their long
acquiescence, without objection, coupled with the changed conditions and relations resulting from the possession and management of the property by the Somerset Railway, estops
them from now questioning the legality of the organization
of the new corporation."
The court further held that, under the statutes of Maine,
the bondholders who had refused to take stock in the new
company still retained the same rights under their bonds as
the holders of the stock in the new company which had been
given in exchange for bonds and that if any bondholder
declined ultimately to exchange his bonds for stock be could
not be compelled to do so, and that the net earnings of the
company when distributed in the form of dividends or otherwise must be distributed to its stockholders, and to the holders
of any unexchanged bonds in equal proportions; that if the
holders of unexchanged bonds chose to take stock they could
do so at any time or they might.retain their present possessions and receive their share of the net earningspro rata with
the stockholders.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

It is thus seen that there were two questions determined
by the state court: One related to the validity of the statutes
passed subsequently to the execution of the mortgage, the
court holding them valid, and that they did not impair the
obligation of the contract contained in the mortgage. That
is a Federal question. The other related to the'defence of
estoppel on account of laches and acquiescence, which is not a
Federal question. E
Either is sufficient upon which to base and
sustain the judgment of the state court. In such case a writ of
error to the state court cannot be sustained. Eustis v. Bolles,
150 U. S. 361; Rutland Railroad v. Central Vermont Railroad, 159 U. S.630; Seneca Nation v. (hristy, 162 U. S.283.
A person may by his acts or omission to act waive a right
which he might otherwise have under the Constitution of the
United States as well as under a statute, and the question
whether he has or has not lost such right by his failure to
act or by his action, is not a Federal one.
In the above case of Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, 368, the
state court held that by accepting his dividend under the
insolvency proceedings Eustis waived his legal right to
claim that the discharge obtained under the subsequent laws
impaired the obligation of a contract. This court held that
whether that view of the case was sound or not it was not a
Federal question, and therefore not within the province of this
court to inquire about.
Mr. Justice Shiras, in delivering the opinion of the court
in that case, said:
"The defendants in the trial court depended on a discharge
obtained by them under regular proceedings under the inpolvency statutes of -Massachusetts. This defence the plaintiffs
met by alleging that the statutes under which the defendants
had procured their discharge had been enacted after the promissory note sued on had been ,executed and delivered, and
that to give effect to a discharge obtained under such subsequent laws would impair the obligation of a contract, within
the meaning of the Constitution of the United States. Upon
such a state of facts it is plain that a Federal question, decisive of the case, was presented, and that if the judgment -of

PIERCE v. SOMERSET RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts adjudged that
question adversely to the plaintiffs it would be the duty of
this court to consider the soundness of such a judgment.
"The record, however, further discloses that William T.
Eustis, represented in this court by his executors, had accepted
and receipted for the money which had been awarded him, as
his portion, under the insolvency proceedings, and that the
court below, conceding that his cause of action could not be
taken away from him, without huis cohsent, by proceedings
under statutes of insolvency passed subsequently to the vesting of his rights, held that the action of Eustis, in so accepting
and receipting for his dividend in the insolvency proceedings,
was a waiver of his right to object to the validity of the insolvency statutes, and that, accordingly, the defendants were
entitled to the judgment.
"The view of the court was that, when the composition was
confirmed, Eustis was put to his election whether he would
avail himself of the composition offer, or would reject it- and
rely upon his right to enforce his debt against his debtors notwithstanding'their discharge.
"In its discussion of this question the court below cited and
claimed to follow the decision of this court in the case of
Clay v. Smith, 3 Pet. 411, where it was held that the plaintiff,
by proving his debt and taking a dividend under the bankrupt
laws of Louisiana, waived his right to object that the law did
not constitutionally apply to his debt, he being a creditor
residing in another State. But in deciding that it was competent for Eustis to waive his legal rights, and that as accepting
his dividend under the insolvency proceedings was such a
waiver, the court below did not decide a Federal question.
Whether that view of the case was sound or not, it is not for
us to inquire. It was broad enough, in itself, to support the
final judgment, without reference to the Federal question."
Eustis had a right which was protected by the Constitution
of the United States. This right, the state court held, he had
waived by his action, and this court said whether the state
court was right or not, was not a Federal question.
In Seneca .Sation v. Chiristy, 102 U. S. 283, it was held by

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

the state court that even if there were a right of recovery on
the part of the plaintiffs in error because the grant oT 1826
was in contravention of the Constitution of the United States
(which the court held was not the case), yet that such recovery
was barred- by the New York statute of limitations. This
court held that as the judgment of the state court could be
maintained upon the latter ground, itwas without jurisdiction
because the decision of the state court upon that ground involved no Federal question.
In this case there being two distinct grounds upon which
the judgment of the state court was based, each of which is
sufficient, and one of which involves no Federal question, wb
must, upon the authority of the cases above cited, hold that
this court is without jurisdiction, and the writ of error must be
Jismissed.
MR. JusTIOE HARLAN and MR. JusTicE WHITE were of
opinion that the decree should be affirmed.

PmRcE v. AYER, error to the Supreme

State of Maine.

Judicial Court of the

No. 13. Argued with No. 12.

This writ of error is controlled by the decision in the case just
announced. The writ will, therefore, be
Dismissed.

ST. LOUIS MINING AND MILLING COMPANY v.
MONTANA MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
1o. 305. Submitted October10, 1$9.-Decided October31, 1895.
The court again holds that when there is color for a motion to dismiss on
the ground that no Federal question was involved in a judgment of a
state court, this court may, under a motion to dismiss or affirm, dispose
of the case.
When a location is made of a mining claim, the area becomes segregated
from the public domain and the property of the locator, ana he may sell

