YOUNG v. ANyY.
Opinion of the Court.

the action upon the award with the original action for damages for breach of the contract for the resurfacing, and the
trial of such consolidated cause, proceeded upon the hypothesis that a valid agreement to arbitrate had been entered
into, the ends of justice will be subserved by also reversing
the judgment in favor of the District entered in the original
action. It is therefore ordered that the judgments be
Reversed and the cases remanded, with directions to dismiss
the action Nio. 31,561r founded upon the alleged award, and
to grant a new trialin action ro. 24,279.

YOUNG v. AMY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 242.

Submitted April 27, 1595. -Decided

May 81, 1898.

On error or appeal to the Supreme Court of a Territory, this court is without power to reexamine the facts, and is confined to determining whether
the cburt below erred in the conclusions of law deduced by it from the
facts by it found, and to reviewing errors committed as to the admission
or rejection of testimony when the action of the court in this respect has
been duly excepted to, and the right to attack the same preserved on the
record.
There is no error in the conclusions of law in this case: all the assignments
of error, and the argument based thereon, rest on the assumption that
the findings of fact certified by the court below are not conclusive, and
that this court has the power, in order to pass upon the questions raised,
to examine the weight of the evidence, and to disregard the facts as
found.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ze Grand Young for appellants..
Mr. C. S. Varian, Mr. TV
Armntrong for appellee.

. Dickson and Mr. S. P.

MR. JusTiE WHrrE delivered the opinion of the court.

By section 17 of the act of Congress of July 16, 1894, c.
138, providing for the admission of Utah into the Union, 28

OCTOBER TERM, '1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 107, c.138, power was conferred upon the' convention,
called for the purpose' of framing a constitution for the contemplated State, to provide for a transfer 'of causes which
might be pending in the territorial courts, at the time of the
admission of Utah into the Union, to the courts of the State
which were to be established. The statute moreover provided
that "from all judgment and decrees of the Supreme Court
of the Territory mentioned. in this act, in- any case arising
within the limits of the proposed State prior to admission, the
parties to such judgment shall have the same right to prosecute appeals and writs of error to the Supreme COurt of the
United States as they shall have had by law prior to the admission of said State into the Union."
This cause comes here for review in virtue of the foregoing
provisions of law. It originated in the probate court of Summit County, Utah Territory, and involved a dispute over the
distribution of the-estate of Oscar A. Amy, who died intestate
in the county of Summit, in Utah Territory, on the 26th day
of May, 1891. There were three classes of claimants to the
estate. First, Adelia Young, Cedina 0. Young and Delecto
Maston, who were maternal aunts of the decedent, they being
the appellants on this record. Second, Royal D. Amy, Francis R. Jackson and others, half blood brothers and sisters of
the deceased. Third, Jennie Amy, who is the appellee, claimwife of the deceased. Each of these different.
to 'of
be the
ing
classes
claimants
asserted that they were solely entitled
to
take distribution of the estate to the entire exclusion of the
others. In the probate court a decree was rendered in favor
of the first-mentioned persons, the maternal aunts. From this
decree an appeal was. taken to the District Court of the third
judicial district of the Territory of Utah; where after a trial
de novo the decree of the probate court was affirmed. From
this decree further appeal- was prosecuted to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, and that court reversed the decree of
the District Court, rejected the claims of those firstly and secondly mentioned; that is, the maternal aunts and the brothers
and sisters of the half blood, the court deciding that the wife
of the deceased, Jennie Amy, was solely entitled to the entire

YOUNG v. AMY.
Opinion of the Court.

estate. The decree of the Supreme Court.of the Territory was
entered on December 21, 1895. 12 Utah, 278. On the same
day the maternal aunts who were embraced in the first class
applied for and were allowed an appeal to this court, and on
December 21, 1895, a bond for costs was filed in the Supreme
Court of the Territory, and was approved by the Chief Justice
thereof. The citation on appeal, however, was not issued until about six months thereafter, September 21, 1896. As in
the meanwhile, the State of Utah had been admitted into
the Union, this citation was approved by the Chief Justice
of the State of Utah, and on the same day findings of fact
and conclusions of law- were made by the Supreme 0ourt.
These findings, as the record certifies, were prepared by the
late. Chief Justice of the territorial court, and were Adopted
by the Supreme Court of the State of Utah as its own. From
the findings thus made we have ascertained the facts above
stated, and the findings moreover show that the controversy
involved two issues. First, whether the brothers and sisters
of the half blood were entitled to a distribution of the property left by the deceased in preference to the maternal aunts;
and, second, whether Jennie Amy, the appellee, was the wife
of the decedent, it being conceded that if she was his wife
under the laws of Utah, she inherited the property left for
distribution to the exclusion of his maternal aunts. The first
question, that is, the right to distribution asserted in favor of
the brothers and sisters of the half blood, may be at once dismissed from view, as the decree of the Supreme Court rejected
their claim, and they have not appealed. The second question,
that is, whether Jennie Amy, the appellee, was the wife of
the deceased, depended upon the validity of a judgment of
divorce, against a former husband which had been rendered
in her favor in 1879 in the probate court of Washington
County, Utah, the marriage having been contracted in Utah
and the ground for the divorce being the abandonment of the
wife by the husband. After this judgment of divorce Mrs.
Amy on the 4th of August, 1886, was married to Oscar A. Amy,
the deceased. The controversy, then, between the parties
now before us turned upon a claim advanced by the maternal

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

aunts, that the .judgment of divorce rendered between Mrs.,
Amy and her former hubsand was void; that she hence did
not enter into a lawful marriage with the deceased, and was
not entitled, therefore, as his -ife to his estate.
The record contains, as we have ftated, findings of fact
made by the Supreme Court of the State and the conclusions
of law, which the Supreme Court held to be decisive of the
issues which the case involved, and to which we shall have
occasion ,hereafter to refer. The findings of fact and conclusions of law are immediately followed in the record by this
recital: "The foregoing 'is
a statement of .the facts found
upon the evidence in the case, and the following are the rulings of the court on the admission and rejection of the evidence, which were duly excepted to by counsel for Adelia
Young, Cedina C. Young and Delecto Maston.". This is followed by a note of evidence, showing what took place during
the trial in the District Court, which is also supplemented by
the oral and docihmentary evidence offered in the trial of the
cause. It appears that Mrs. Amy offered the decree of
divorce between herself and her -husband and the complaint
filed in the suit in which the judgment of divorce was entered. This was objected to on the ground that the documents were irrelevant,- inasmuch as without the summons
issued in the cause they proved nothing. The counsel tendering the proof thereupon declared that although the decree on.
its face recited the fact that the summons had been regularly
issued and served, it was absent: from the record, and he proposed by further .evidence to show that the summons was
regularly issued and due iiotice thereof had been given to the
defendant as the law required.
The court received- the evidefce subject to the objection.
That is to say, it declared that it would pass on the objection
when.all the evidence in the case had been 6ffered, thus
treating the objection as in a measure going to the effect.
Mrs. Amy and her former husband, the defendant in the
divorce proceedings, were then called, and testimony was
given by'both tending to show that the summons had been
issued in conformity to law and the defendant in the divorce

YOUNG v. ANY.
Opinion of the Court.

suit was personally cognizant of the suit, as he received and
had in his possession the copies of the newspaper containing
the published summons, and that due service thereof, in the
manner required by law, had been made. All this testimony
was objected to, and the court likewise received it subject to
objection, no exception being taken to such action. In the
course of the testimony of these witnesses various exhibits
were offered tending to show the preparation of the summons
in compliance with law, the publication in the newspaper of
the summons in conformity to legal requirements, its service
on the defendant and that he had both legal and actual
notice of the suit, all of which was objected to, and this, like
the other objections, was reserved to be considered when the
evidence was all in. The counsel of Royal D. Amy and
others, the sisters and brothers of the half blood, offered in
evidence what they designated as the judgment roll of the
divorce proceeding. This was also objected to by the counsel for the maternal aunts on the ground that the record was
not complete and did not show compliance with the legal
requisites, and was objected to by Mrs. Amy because it contained matters asserted not to be properly a part of the
judgment roll, and which were therefore not admissible.
The court also reserved the objection to this evidence.
At the'conclusion of the trial the court sustained all the objections to the evidence and the ,testimony, and decided the
case against Mrs. Amy and in favor of the maternal aunts.
To the rulings of the court rejecting the documentary and oral
evidence, Mrs. Amy excepted, and upon the record as thus
made the case was taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory. In that court, as we have seen, the action of the trial
court was reversed and a decree rendered in favor of Mrs.
Amy.
The assignments of error are twenty-four in number, and
the argument by which their correctness is sought to be maintained has taken a much wider range than the condition of
the record justifies. It is settled that on error' or appeal to
the Supreme Court of a Territory this court is without power
to redxamine the facts and is confined to determining

OCTOBER TERI, 1897 .
Opinion of the Court.

whether the court below erred in the conclusions of law deduced by it from the facts by it found, and to reviewing
errors committed as to the admission or rejection of testimony
when the action of the court in this regard has been duly excepted to, and the-right to attack the same preserved on the
record. Hlarrison v. Perea, 168 IT.S. 311, and authorities
there cited.

The findings of fact and conclusions of law of the Supreme
Court are as folloxys:
* "Eleventh. The court further finds that the said Jennie
Amy was married to one Elliot Butterworth in 1875.
"That on the third day of September, 1879, the pr.obate
court of Washington County made and entered a decree of
divorce, dissolving the bonds of matrimony theretofore exist-

ifig between the said Jennie Amy and the said Elliot Butter-worth, and absolutely releasing the said Jennie Amy and the
said Elliot Butterworth from all the obligations of said marriage; that the said probate court sQ granting said decree of
divorce was a court of competent jurisdiction and had jurisdiction of the subject-matter of said divorce action and of
both the parties thereto.
"That the said defendant therein, Elliot Butterworth, had
knowledge at the time bf the said divorce proceedings and
was duly served with process in said action.
"That the said Elliot Butterworth married a second wife
on the 11th day of October, 1880, being the year after said
decree of divorce was rendered; that his second wife is still
living, and she and the said Elliot Butterworth are still husband and wife; that as the issue of said second marriage the
said Elliot Butterworth and his present wife have seven children, ranging from two years to fifteen years old.
"That afterwards, to wit, on April 4, 1886, the said Jennie
Amy, the claimant in this proceeding to the estate of the said
Oscar A. Amy, deceased, was duly and lawfully married to
the said Oscar A. Amy, and continued to be and was his lawful wife at the time of his death."From these findings it deddced the following legal conclusion:

YOUNhG v. &AY.
Opinion of the Court.

"That the said Jennie Amy is' now the widow of said
Oscar A. Amy, deceased, and as such widow she is- the
successor to the whole of his estate, consisting of the property hereinabove described."
We will consider the assignments in their, logical order.
The first to the eleventh, inclusive, and the nineteenth complain of errors, which it is alleged. the Supreme Court committed in admitting certain evidence. But all the evidence
objected to was received by the trial court subject to .the
objection, and the question of its admissibility turned -on that
of its irrelevancy or the quantum of proof which it would
establish if considered. The ultimate action of the trial court
in rejecting the evidence which it had received, subject to
objection, amounted, in effect, to a decision that the evidence
did not establish that the judgment in the divorce proceedings
had been rendered after due publication of summons in accordance with the laws of the Territory, and therefore the evidence was insufficient. But the express finding from all the
evidence by the Supreme Court of the State is that the summons in the divorce suit was duly issued and published according to law, and that the defendant had, besides, personal notice
of the pendency of the suit. This conclusion being binding
on us, establishes that the evidence was relevant and material,
and that there was no ground to reject it. We cannot, therefore, say that the evidence should have been disregarded, because it did not establish the facts; which we are bound to donelude it did fully prove. If specific findings of each item of
evidence and the conclusions deduced from the separate items
had been made, as in Cheely v. Clayton, 110 U. S. 701, the
case would present a different aspect. Considering, however,
the state of the record and the nature of the findings of fact
certified, we cannot determine the correctness of the objections to the evidence without going into its weight and making independent conclusions of fact; in other words, without
disregarding the findings made by the court below, by which
we are concluded. The same reasoning is applicable to the
other assignments of error. Thus, the thirteenth, fourteenth,
seventeenth and eighteenth assert that the court erred in

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

holding, as to the burden of proof, that it erroneously treated
the denial of the validity of the judgment of divorce by the
maternal aunts as a collateral attack by them on such judgment. But there are no findings which raise these questions.
On the contrary, the facts found render them wholly immaterial, for it is obvious that if the evidence affirmatively established, as the findings declare, that the judgment of divorce
was rendered after due summons, and that the defendant had
personal notice of the proceedings, the question of burden of
proof and collateral attack are wholly irrelevant. Again, tie
twenty-first and twenty-second assignments of error complain
that the court erred in holding that it was not necessary that
,there should be an order of the court directing the publi*cation
of the summons in the divorce proceeding, and that the court
erred in holding* that the only papers necessary in proof of
publication were the complaint, summons and affidavit of the
printer and judgment. But there are no findings which raise
these questions. On the contrary, the facts found are that
the summons was duly published, and that the defendant
had besides personal notice. To maintain the assignments of
error, we should be obliged to go into the record and ascertain what was the proof on the subject upon which the court
based its findings, and deduce from this analysis that the
premise upon which the assignments just mentioned are based
was a correct one. The same reasoning applies to the twentythird and twenty-fourth assignments, which. charge that the
court erred in holding that the probate court. by which. the
divorce judgment was rendered possessed common law or
chancery jurisdiction, or that it was ever a court of general
jurisdiction. These questions become only material for the
*r*afacie proof resulting from
purpose of determining the
the record of the divorce proceeding. It is not questioned
that it was correctly held that the court which rendered the
judgment of divorce had jurisdiction of the subject-matter.
If, therefore, it bad jurisdiction, and the proof affirmatively
shows the regularity and validity of the proceedings, it is
wholly immaterial to determine whether it possessed common
law or chancery powers, or. was a court of general jurisdiction.

THE IRRAWADDY.
Syllabus.

In effect, all the assignments of error and the argument based
thereon rest in reason on the assumption that the findings of
fact certified by the court below are not conclusive, and that
this court has the power, in order to pass upon the questions
raised, to examine the weight of the evidence and disregard
the facts as found. If the argument be that the findings of
fact are the mere statement of ultimate legal propositions, and
therefore they may be disregarded or reviewed, then the
result of the contention is that there are no findings of fact
and nothing to review, and if the other aspect be looked at,
the views which we have just expressed are conclusive.
Affirmed.

THE IRRAWADDY.1
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 591. Submitted April 11, 1898.-Decided May 31,1898.

If a vessel, seaworthy at the beginning of the voyage, is afterwards stranded
by the negligence of her master, the ship owner, who has exercised due
diligence to make his vessel in all respects seaworthy, properly manned,
equipped and supplied, under the provisions of ยง 3 of the act of February 13, 1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 495, has not a right to general average contribution for sacrifices made and suffered by him subsequent to the stranding, in successful efforts to save vessel, freight and cargo.
The main purposes of the act of February 13, 1893, known as the Harter
Act, were to relieve the ship owner from liability for latent defects, not
discoverable by the utmost care and diligence, and, in the event that he
has exercised due diligence to make his vessel seaworthy, to exempt him
and the ship from responsibility for damages or loss resulting from faults
or errors in navigation or in the janagement of the vessel; but the court
cannot say that it .was the intention of the act to allow the owner to share
in the benefits of a general average contribution to meet losses occasioned
by faults in the navigation and management of the ship.
In determining the effect of this statute in restricting the operation of general and well-settled principles, the court treats those principles as still
existing, and limits the relief from their operation afforded by the statute
to that called for by the language of the statute.
' The docket title of this case is Flint, Eddy & Company, Appe~lants, v.
George Chrystall andTJames Greig, as Trustees.

