JOHNSON v. DREW.
Syllabus.

from .the said vein on its dip under the Black Rock lode at
the point above described, and which is designated on the diagram as "ore bodies."
Thereupon the defendants in error, who as stated suyra,
own two thirds interest in the Niagara; lode claim brought an
action asking for an accounting and judgment for two thirds
the value of the ore extracted by the plaintiff in error. Judgment was rendered against the plaintiff in error for the sum
of $2i,242.51, being two thirds the value of the ore extracted
and for the cost of the suit.
An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the State and
the judgment of the lower court was affirmed.
Mr. .Robert B. Smith for plaintiff in error.
Wood was on his brief.

.Mr..Robert L.

Mr. Tames 1.. Forbis for defendants in error.
Ni. JUsTicE

B.RE WR delivered the opinion of the court.

,The case is before us on error to the Supreme Court of Montana. Itis unnecessary to state its facts in detail, and it is sufficient to say that the answer given to the fourth question in
the opinion just filed in Del Monte .-Mining Co. v. Last Chance
.Mining Co., ante, 55, compels an affirmance of the judgment.
Afirmed.

JOHNSON v. DREW.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 239. Submitted April 28, 1S98.-Decided May 81, 1S98.

The substantial rights of the defendant were not prejudiced by the ruling
of the trial court sustaining the demurrer to the first equitable plea and
refusing leave to file the second, and such ruling involved merely a question of state practice.
The evidence in the case shows that the particular lots of land described In
the declaration were not embraced in the Fort Brooke reservation when
the patent was issued.
A party cannot defend against a patent duly issued for laud which is at
the time a part of the public domain, subject to administration by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
land department, and to disposal in the ordinary way, upon the ground
that he was in actual posse'ssion of the land at the time of the issue of
the patent.
The act of Congress of July 5, 1884, c. 214, 23 Stat. 103, concerning the
disposal of abandoned and useless military reservations, has no significance in this case, as the patent had issued and the title passed from the
Government prior to its enactment.

IN September, 1886, defendant in error commenced an action
of ejectment in the Circuit Court of the State of Florida, for
the county of Hillsborough, to recover 1ossession of a tract of
land described as follows:
"Lot eight (8) of section nineteen (19), township twenty-nine
(29) south, of range nineteen (19) east, and lot seven (7) of section twenty-four (2-1), in township twenty-nine (29) south, of
range eighteen (18) east, containing about forty and nineteen
one-hundredths (40.19) acres."
The defendant, now plaintiff in error, filed a plea -of not
guilty and also a plea based on equitable grounds. A demurrer to this latter plea was -sustained, and thereupon the
defendant asked leave to file an amended equitable plea.
This application was denied, the court holding that the
grounds of defence set up therein.were not sufficient. That
plea alleged in substance that the plaintiff's title rested on a
patent from the United States, issued on a location of Valentine scrip; that such scrip was, by the terms of the statute
under which it was issued, to be located only upon unoccupied
and unappropriated lands of the United States; that the land
in controversy was, at the time of the location of the scrip, a
part of Fort Brooke military reservati-ri, and was also in the
actual occupancy of the defendant. The, case came on for
trial in September, 1889, and the defendant offered evidence
in support of all his defences, including therein the matters
set up in the equitable plea which he had been refused leave
to file. This testimony was held insufficient by the court, and
the trial rpsulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff,
which judgment was thereafter, and in Jufie, 1894, affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State; whereupon the defendant
sued out this writ of error.
The Valentine Scrip Act was passed April 5, 1872, c. 89,

JOHNSON v. DREW.
Statement of the Case.

17 Stat. 649, and authorized the location of such scrip on "the
unoccupied and unappropriated public lands of the United
States, not mineral, and in tracts not less than the sfibdivisions provided'for in the United States land laws." The patent
to the plaintiff was issued September 30, 1882," and recited
that it was upon a location of Valentine scrip, and in his
equitable plea defendant averred that the patent was predicated upon an entry at the local land office of the United
States at Gainesville, Florida. On August 18, 1856, Congress
passed an act, c. 129, 11 Stat. 81, 87, containing this provision:
"That all public lands heretofore reserved for military
purposes in the State of Florida, which said lands, in the
opinion of the Secretary of War, are no longer useful or
desired for such purposes, or so much thereof as said Secrtary may designate, shall be, and are hereby, placed under the
control of the General Land Office, to be disposed of and sold
in the same -manner and under the same regulations as other
public lands of the United States: Provided,That said lands
shall not be.so placed under the control of said General Land
Office until said opinion of the Secretary of War, giving his
consent, communicated to the Secretary of the Interior in.
writing, shall be filed and recorded.".
At that time there was in existence what was known as the
Fort Brooke military reservation, near the town of Tampa,
Florida. As appears from the testimony offered by the defendant, on July 24, 1860, the Secretary of War wrote to the
Secretary of the Interior as follows:
"WARDEPAitTMENT, July 24th, 1860.
"SiR: Referring to the correspondence betwveen the two
departments on the subject, I have the honor to enclose to
you a report of the Quartermaster General showing that Fort
Brooke is now in readiness .to be turned over to the Department of the Interior, in pursuance of the arrangements made
to that effect.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
" XJoaN B. FLOYD, Secretary of War."
"Hon. J. Thompson, Secretary of the Interior."

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

The enclosed report from the Quartermaster General stated
that all the movable property of the Government had been
sold, and that there was no reason why the military reservation should not be turhed over to the Interior Department.
Probably the exigencies of the war, which soon thereafter
commenced, prevented any further adtion by either department, for on April 6, 1870, the following communication was
sent by the Secretary of War to the Secretary of the Interior:
"WAR DEPARTmENT, WASHINGTON CITY, April 6, 1870..
"The honorable Secretary of the Interior.
"SIR: I have the honor to reply to a letter addressed to
this department by the Conmissioner of the General Land
Office on the 26th ultimo relative to the public lands occupied
by this department for military purposes at Fort Brooke,
Florida, and to inform you that there is no longer any objection to their disposition by the General Land Office under the
laws governing the subject.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"W~r. W. B3 ELKNAP, Secretar"y of W~ar."

From the date of this last communication up to 1877 the
record discloses no action by either department, but- in January, 18-77, the Secretary of War requested that a military
reservation at Fort Brooke be declared and set apart by the
executive. Subsequently, and on May 29, 1878, the Secretary of War addressed a communication to the President as
follows:
"WAR

DEPARTMENT,

"WASHINGTON. CITY, May

29th, 1878.

"To the President.
"SiR: In accordance with recommendation of commanding

general department of the South, concurred in by division
commanders, I have the honor to request that a military
reservation at the post of Fort Brooke, Tampa, Florida, with
boundaries as hereinafter described, may be duly declared and
set apart by the executive in lieu of the lands at that post
reserved by executive order. dated January 22,,1877, to wit:
Beginning at the intersection of the line which bounds the

JOHNSON v. DREW.
Statement. of the Case.

town of Tampa on the south with the Hillsborough River,
run ning thence along said line which bounds the town of
Tampa on the south, and in prolongation thereof north 68
degrees 45 minutes east 2976 feet; thence north 4 degrees
28 minutes west 2342 feet; thence north 38 degrees east
1052 *feet; thence south 52 degrees east 459.2 feet; thence
south 38 degrees west 1052 feet; thence south 4 degrees 28
uinites east 1931 feet; thence 'south 5 degrees 29 minutes
east 2007.2 feet to the .Hillsborough Bay; thence westerly
along the shore of Hillsborough Bay and the shore of Hillsborough River to the place of beginning, containing 155 and
one half acres, more or less. A plat of the reservation and
report and notes and survey by Lieutenant James C. Bush,
5 th artillery, are enclosed. herewith.
"I have the honor to be, sir; with great respect,
"Your obedient servant,
"GEO. W. MCGR0RY, Secretary of War."
This request was approved, and the reservation was made
and declared accordingly. The plat, notes and survey referred
to in this letter were not introduced in evidence, so that the
exact boundaries of the reservation then ordered were not
distinctly shown, nor can it be determined from the description
in the letter alone whether it included the lands in controversy.
In March, 1883, this last reservation was abandoned, and the
land again turned over to the Interior Department. Defendant also offered a diagram, certified by the Commissioner of
the Land Office, of sections 18 and 19 of township 29, range
19, and section 24: of township 29, range 18, which, as the
record recites, "shows the contiguity of the land in question
to that portion of the Fort Brooke military reservation last
relinquished by the Secretary of War to the Secretary .of the
Interior." The diagram is not very definite, and it is. difficult
to determine therefrom the boundaries of either the earlier or
later Fort Brooke military reservation. The defendant also
offered evidence tending to show that he entered into occupation of the tract in controversy in 1871, and had continued in
occupancy ever since.
VOL. CLxXI-7

OCTOBER TERVI, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr'. Samue

. Finley for plaintiff in error.

-Mr. C. M. Cooper and -ir.
error.
Mn. JusTicE BizREWE,

T C. Cooper for defendant in

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The ruling of the trial court in sustaining the demurrer to
the first equitable plea and refusing to permit the second to be
filed presents no question for the consideration of this court,
for it washeld by the Supreme Court of the State that under
the plea of not guilty all the matters of defence set up in these
equitable pleas could be offered in evidence and made available ; and, in fact, the defendant on the trial did offer his
testimony to establish them So the substantial rights of the
defendant were not prejudiced, and the ruling involved merely
a question of state practice.
We pass therefore to a consideration of the merits of the
case: Was the land within the limits of any. military reservhtion at the time that it was patented? The Supreme Court
of the State said in respect to this matter:
"There is doubt whether the documentary evidence offered
by the defendant shows that the particular lots of land described in the declaration were embraced in the Fort Brooke
reservation Cvhen the patent was issued."
It is clear to us that they were not. The description of the
reservation asked for in the letter of May 29, 1878, from the
Secretary of War to the President, is not of itself sufficient to
show whether the land was within or without the limits of
such reservation. The plat, notes and survey were not in
evidence. But the record recites that the diagram, certified
by the Commissioner of the Land Office, "shows the contiguity of the land in question." If contiguous it'was not within,
and while the diagram is unsatisfactory, yet it tends to support
this statement of the record. Again, the testimony of the
defendant is that he entered into possession of this land in
1871, which was "before the reservation was established, and

JOHNSON v. DREW.
Opinion of the Court.

continued in such possession until after the restoration in 1883,
and this is in accord with the averments in the equitable plea.
This also indicates* that the land was not included in any
government reservation. Further and finally, the plat on file
in the General Land Office, and a part of the public records,
puts the question at rest and locates the land outside the
reservation. Hence, as shown by the testimony and by the
public records, this land ever since 1870 has been part of
the public lands of the United States, and subject to disposal in
accordance with the general land laws. - It was unappropriated land within the meaning of the act of 1872.
It being so a part of the public domain, subject to administration by the land department and to disposal in the ordinary
way, the question arises whether a party can defend against
a patent duly issued therefor upon an entry made in the local
land office on the ground that he was in actual possession of
the land at the time of the issue of the patent? We are of
opinion that he cannot. It appears from the testimony that
the defendant, although in occupation of this land, as he says,
from 1871, never attempted to make any entry in the local land
office, never took any steps to secure a title, and in fact did
nothing until after the issue of a patent, when he began to make
inquiry as to his supposed rights. But whether a party was
or was not in possession of a particular tract at a given time
is a question of fact, depending upon parol testimony; and if
there is any one thing respecting the administration of the
public lands which must be considered as settled by repeated
adjudications of this court, it is that the decision of the land
department upon mere questions of fact is, in the absence of
fraud or deceit, conclusive, and such questions cannot thereafter be relitigated in the courts. The law in reference to
this matter was summed up in the case of Bu7fenning v. cicago, St. Paul &a. Railway, 163 U. S. 321, 323, as follows:
"It has undoubtedly been affirmed over and over again
that in the administration of the public land system of the
United States questions of fact are for the consideration and
judgment of the land department, and that its judgment
thereon is final. Whether, for instance, a certain tract is

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

swamp land or not; saline land or not, mineral land or not,
presents a question of fact not resting on record, dependent
on oral testimony; and it cannot be doubted that the decision
of the land department, one way or the other, in reference to
these questions is conclusive and not open to relitigation in
the courts, except in those cases of fraud, etc., which permit
any determination to be reexamined. Johnson. v. Towsley,
13 Wall. 72; Smelting Company v. iemp, 104 U. S. 636;
Steel v. Smelting Company, 106 U. S. 447; W1right v. Roseberry, 121 U. S. 488; Heath v. W$allace, 138 U. S. 573; teCormick v. Hayes, 159 U. S. 332.
"But it is also equally true that when by act of Congress
a tract of land has been reserved from homestead and preemption, or dedicated tcr any special purpose, proceedings in
the land department in defiance of such reservation or dedication, although culminating in a patent, transfer no title, and
may be challenged in an action at law. In other words, the
action of the land department cannot override the expressed
will of Congress, or convey away public lands in disregard or
defiance thereof. Smelting Company v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636,
646; Wrigh v. IRoseberry, 121 U. S. 488, 519; Doolan v. Carr,
125 U. S. 618; Davis' Admr. v. lVeibbold, 139 U: S.. 507, 529;
KEnight v. U. S. Land Association, 142 U. S. 161."
Reference is made in the brief to the act of Congress, of
July 5, 1884, c. 214, 23 Stat. 103, concerning the disposal of
abandoned and useless military reservations. But obviously
that statute can have no significance in this case, for the
patent had issued and the title passed from the Government
prior to its enactment. We see no reason to doubt that upon
the facts in this case the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Florida was right, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.

