THE IRRAWADDY.
Syllabus.

In effect, all the assignments of error and the argument based
thereon rest in reason on the assumption that the findings of
fact certified by the court below are not conclusive, and that
this court has the power, in order to pass upon the questions
raised, to examine the weight of the evidence and disregard
the facts as found. If the argument be that the findings of
fact are the mere statement of ultimate legal propositions, and
therefore they may be disregarded or reviewed, then the
result of the contention is that there are no findings of fact
and nothing to review, and if the other aspect be looked at,
the views which we have just expressed are conclusive.
Affirmed.

THE IRRAWADDY.1
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 591. Submitted April 11, 1898.-Decided May 31,1898.

If a vessel, seaworthy at the beginning of the voyage, is afterwards stranded
by the negligence of her master, the ship owner, who has exercised due
diligence to make his vessel in all respects seaworthy, properly manned,
equipped and supplied, under the provisions of § 3 of the act of February 13, 1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 495, has not a right to general average contribution for sacrifices made and suffered by him subsequent to the stranding, in successful efforts to save vessel, freight and cargo.
The main purposes of the act of February 13, 1893, known as the Harter
Act, were to relieve the ship owner from liability for latent defects, not
discoverable by the utmost care and diligence, and, in the event that he
has exercised due diligence to make his vessel seaworthy, to exempt him
and the ship from responsibility for damages or loss resulting from faults
or errors in navigation or in the janagement of the vessel; but the court
cannot say that it .was the intention of the act to allow the owner to share
in the benefits of a general average contribution to meet losses occasioned
by faults in the navigation and management of the ship.
In determining the effect of this statute in restricting the operation of general and well-settled principles, the court treats those principles as still
existing, and limits the relief from their operation afforded by the statute
to that called for by the language of the statute.
' The docket title of this case is Flint, Eddy & Company, Appe~lants, v.
George Chrystall andTJames Greig, as Trustees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

THIS case comes here on a certificate from the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
The facts out of which the, question arise are as follows:
On November '9, 1895, the British steamship Irrawaddy,
upon a'voyage from Trinidad to New York, with cargo,
stranded on the coast of New Jersey through the negligent
navigation of her master. Up to the time of stranding she
was properly manned, equipped and supplied, and was seaworthy.
The vessel was relieved from. the strand November 20 as
the result of sacrifices by jettison of a portion of her cargo,
of sacrifices and losses voluntarily made or incurred by the
ship owners through the master and of the services of salvors.
The Irrawaddy then completed her voyage and made
delivery of the remainder of her cargo to the consignees in
New York on their executing an average bond for the payment of losses and expenses which should appear to be due
from them, provided they were stated and apportioned by
the adjusters "in accordance with established usages and laws
in similar cases."
An adjustment was afterwards made in New York, which
allowed in the general average account the compensation of
the salvors, the sacrifices of cargo and the losses and sacrifices
of the ship owner.
The respondent thereupon paid $4483.61, which was their
full assessment, except the sum of $508.29 charged against
them in respect of sacrifices of the ship owner, which they
refused to pay.
The District Court made a decree in favor of the libellants;
from whici decree the respondent duly appealed to this cburf.
Upon these facts the court desires instruction upon the
following question of law, namely:
If a vessel, seaworthy at the beginning of the voyage, is
afterward's stranded by the negligence of her master, has
the ship owner, who has exercised due diligence to make his
vessel' in all respects seaworthy, properly manned, equipped
and supplied, under the provisions of section 3 of -the act of
February 13, 1895, a right'to general average contribution for

THE IRRAWADDY.
Opinion of the Court.

sacrifices made and suffered by him subsequent to the stranding, in successful efforts to save vessel, freight and cargo?
.Mr.Wilhelmus 3fynderse and -Mr.-James C. Carter for
appellants.
.Mr. Harrngtom Putnamfor appellees.,
MR.

JUSTInE

SHIRAS,

after stating the case, -delivered the

opinion of the court.
The answer we shall give to the question certified by the
COcuit Court of Appeals must be determined by the meaning
and effect which should be given to the act of February 13,
1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445, known as the Harter Act. Admittedly, upon the facts conceded to exist in the present case,
the owntr of the ship has no right toa general average contribution from the cargo, 'unless such right arises from the
operation of that act.
•'We shall first inquire why it is that, apart from the act in
question, the owner of the ship is not entitled to a general
average contribution where the loss was occasioned by the
fault of the master or crew, and we find the rule is founded
on the principle that no one can make a claim for general
average contribution, if the danger, to avert which the sacrifice was made, has arisen from the fault of the claimant or
of some one for whose arts the claimant has made himself,
or is made by law responsible to the co-contributors. We
are not called upon either to trace the history of -the rule, or
to justify it as based on equitable principles, as it is conceded
on both sides that such is the ordinary rule in the absence of
statute or contract to modify it.
Nor is it necessary to inquire into the origin or nature of
the law of general average: That has been so recently and
thoroughly done in ]alli v. Ti'oop, 157 U. S. 386, that it is
sufficient to refer to the opinion of MVr. Justice Gray in that
case.
,Not only is the ship owner excluded from contribution by

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

way of general average when the loss arises from the ship's
fault, but he is legally responsible to the owner of the cargo
for loss and damages so occasioned. And it is the well-settled
law of this court that a common carrier by sea cannot, by
any stipulation with a shipper of goods, exempt himself from
responsibility for loss or damage arising from the negligence
of the officers or crew; that it is against the policy of the law
to allow stipulations that will relieve a carrier from liability
for losses caused by the negligence of himself or his servants:
Liverpool Steam. Co. v. Phmxnix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397.
Further, it has frequently been decided by this court that
in every contract for the carriage of goods by sea, unless
otherwise expressly stipulated, there is a warranty, on the part
of the ship owner that the ship is seaworthy at the time of
beginning her voyage, and not merely that he does not know
her to be unseaworthy at the time of beginning her voyage,
or that he has used his best efforts to make her seaworthy;
and that his undertaking is not discharged because the want
of fitness is the result of latent defects. R.ichelieu N2avigation
Co. v. Boston Insur'ance Co., 136 U. S. 408; The . J. .Morrison, 153 U. S. 199; The Caledonia, 157 U. S. i24.
In this condition of the lax the so called Harter Act was
approved, on February 13, 1893, wherein, after providing in
the first and second sections that it shall not be lawful for
any owner, agent or master of any vessel transporting merchandise or -property from or between, ports of the United
States and foreign ports, to exempt himself from liability for
loss or damage arising from negligence in the loading or
proper delivery of such property,-or to insert in any bill of
lading any covenant or agreement whereby the obligations
of the owner to exercise due diligence in manning and equipping the vessel, and to make such vessel seaworthy and capable of perf6rming her intended voyage should be in anywise
lessened, weakened or avoided, it was, in the third section,
enacted as follows:
"That if the owner of any vessel transporting merchandise
or property to- or from any port in the United States of
America shall exercise due diligence to make the said vessel

THE IRRAWADDY.

191

Opinion of the Court.

in all respects seaworthy and properly manned, equipped and
supplied, neither the vessel, her owner or owners, agents or
charterers, shall become or be held responsible for damage or
loss resulting from faults or errors in navigation or in the
management of said vessel, nor shall the vessel, her owner or
owners, charterers, agent or master, be held liable for losses
arising from the danger of the sea or other navigable waters,
acts of God or public enemies, or the inherent defect, quality
or vice of the thing carried, or from insufficiency of package,
or seizure hunder legal process, or for loss resulting from any
act or omission of the shipper or owner of the goods, his agent
or representative, or from saving or attempting to save life
or property at sea, or from any deviation in rendering such
service."
The argument on behalf of the ship owner is clearly expressed by the learned judge of the District Court in the following terms:
"There is no doubt, I think, that the liability to indemnify
the cargo owner is the sole ground of the exclusion of the
ship owner's claim to general average compensation for his
expenses in rescuing the adventure from a peril caused by bad
navigation. It therefore seems necessarily to follow that in
cases where all such liability is abolished by law, as it is underthe circumstances of this case by the Hlarter Act, no such exclusion can be justified; and that where no such liability exists on
the part of the ship or her owner, his right to a general average contribution from the cargo arises necessarily by the same
principles of equitable right that apply in ordinary cases of
general average. Where due diligence has been exercised to
make the ship seaworthy, and a common danger arises upon
the Voyage by ' fault or error in the. navigation or management of the ship,' the third section of that act declares that
'neither the vessel nor her owner, agent or charterer shall
become or be held responsible for damage or loss resulting
therefrom;' the previous liability of the ship owner to the
cargo owner for faults of navigation is thus abolished in all
cases coming within the act. In such cases faults in the navigation or management of the ship are no longer, by construc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of law, faults of the owner, as heretofore; and the ship
and her owner are now no more liable to the cargo owner for
his-damages therefrom than the latter is liable to the ship
owner for the resulting- damages to the ship. Both are alike
strangers to the fault, and equally free from all responsibility
for it ; and hence all expenditures or losses voluntarily incurred
for the common rescue are no longer made in the discharge
of an individual legal obligation, or in diminution of a fixed
liability resting upon one of the parties only, but are truly a
sacrifice, voluntarily incurred, and for the common benefit, as
much and as truly so when made by the ship owner as when
made by the cargo owner alone. On principle, therefore, in
such cases, the one is as much entitled to a general average
contribution for his sacrifice as the other." -" The application
of this new relation of non-responsibility under the Harter Act
to cases of general average does not, in fact, make the least
change in the principles of general average contribution. The
rule remains as before, that he by whose fault, actual or constructive, the ship and cargo have been brought into danger
cannot recover an average contribution fer his expenses in
extricating them. And so the counter rule remains as before,
that the interest which, being without fault, makes sacrifices
for the common rescue, is entitled to an average contribution
from what is thereby saved. Prior to the Hlarter Act the ship
owner, under our law, was constructively in fault for bad
navigation and hence fell within the former rule. The Harter
Act, by abolishing his constructive fault and freeing him from
all responsibility, withdraws him from the former rule and entitles him to contribution under the latter." (82 Fed. Rep.
472, 474-47.)
We are unable. to accept this view of the operation of the
act of Congress.
Plainly the main purposes of the act were to relieve the
ship owner from liability for latent defects, not discoverable
by the utmost care and diligence, and, in event that he has
exercised due diligence to make his vessel seaworthy, to
exempt him and the ship from responsibility for damage or
loss resulting from faults or errors in navigation or in the

THE IRRANVADDY.
Opinion of the Court.

management of the vessel. But can we go further, and say
that it was the intention of the act to allow the owner to share
in the benefits of a general average contribution to meet losses
occasioned by faults in the navigation and management of the
ship 1
Doubtless, as the law stood before the passage of the act,
the owner could not contract against his liability and that of
his vessel for loss occasioned by negligence or fault in: the
officers and crew, because such a contract was held by the
Federal courts to be contrary -to public policy, and, in this
particular, the owners of American vessels were at a disadvantage as compared with the owners of foreign vessels, who
can contract with shippers against any liability for negligence
or fault on the part of-the officers and crew. This inequality,
of course, operated unfavorably on the A~fierican ship owner,
and Congress thought fit to remove the disadvantage, not by
declaring that it should be competent for the owners of vessels to exempt themselves from liability for the faults of the
master and crew by stipulations to that effect contained in
bills of lading, but by enacting that, if the owners exercised
due diligence in making their ships seaworthy and in duly
manning and equipping them, there should be no liability for
the navigation and management of the ships, however faulty.
Although the foundation of the rule that forbade ship owners
to contract for exemption from liability for negligence in their
agents and employ~s, was in the decisions of the courts that
such contracts were against public policy, it was nevertheless
competent for Congress to make a change in the standard of
duty, and it is plainly the duty of the courts to conform in
their decisions to the policy so declared.
But we think that for the courts to declare, as a consequence
of this legislation, that the ship owner is not only relieved
from liability for the negligence of his servants, but is entitled
to share in a general average rendered necessary by that negligence, would be in the nature of a legislative act. The act
in question does, undoubtedly, modify the public ,policy as
previously declared by the courts, but if Congress had intended to grant the -further privilege now contended for it
VOL. cLxxi-13

OCTOBER TERM'f, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

would have expressed such. an intention in unmistakable terms.
It is one :thing to exonerate the ship and its owner from liability for, the negligence of those who manage the vessel; it
is another thing, to authorize the ship owner to do what he
could not do before, namely, share in the general average
occasioned by the mismanagement of the master and crew.
What was the reasoning on which the courts proceeded
in holding that it was against public.policy to permit ship
owners to 'contract for exemption from liability for the negligence of their agents? Was it not that such a state of the
law would impel the ship qwners to exercise care in the selection of those for whose conduct ihey were to be responsible?
This being so, can it be reasonably inferred that Congress
intended, when relieving ship owners from liability for the
misconduct of their agents, to confer upon them the further
right to participate in a general average contribution, and that
to the detriment of the shippers? Such an interpretation of
the statute would tend to relieve ship owners, to'some extent
at least, from care in the selection of the master and crew; and
it would likewise operate to influence the master in deciding,
in an emergency, whether he would nmake a case-of general
average by sacrificing the vessel, in whole or in part. If he
knew that the owner would participate in a contribution
occasioned by a loss, he would be the less likely to exert himself and crew to avoid the loss.
It is said that it has been decided by. the English courts
that when, by a contract in the bill of lading, the ship owner
is exonerated from liability for loss caused by the fault of the
master or crew, he is entitled to share in, a general average
contribution.
An examination of the cases cited has not convinced us that
there has been any such final decision by the English courts.
The case of The Carron Park7., 15 P. D. 203, does, indeed,
hold that the relation of the goods owner to the ship owner
was altered by .the contract; that the ship owner was not to
be responsible for the negligence of his servants in the events
which have happened; and that, therefore, the ship owner's
claim for general ayerage was allowed. On the other hand,

THE IRRAWADDY.
Opinion of the Court.

in the case of The Ettrict, 6 P. D. 127, where the ship
owner claimed the benefit of a general average contribution
rendered necessary by reason of negligence in navigation, and
put his claim on the ground that, having availed himself of
the limited liability laws by paying into court the £8 a ton,
which is the limitation fixed by the statutes of Great Britain, he was thereby relieved from his liability on account
of the negligence in the navigation, and stood in the position,
of an innocent party entitled to share in the contribution. But
the Court of Appeals held otherwise, and Sir George Jessel,
ivf. .R., said:
"The ground upon which the ship owner puts his claim is
this : he says that the payment of £8 per ton not only prevents his being answerable in damages for any more, but is
equivalent to saying that he shall be in exactly the same position as if no negligence had been committed, and nothing had
been done by him or his agents that would give rise to any
liability. But I cannot read the act so. All it says is that
lie shall not be answerable in damages for any greater amount.
It does not make his acts right if they were previously
wrongful. It does not give him any new rights as far as I
can see.

.

.

.

It seems to me that he could have no such

right, for the statute does not destroy the effect of all that
had been done, as it simply diminishes or limits the liability
in damages. If that is so, of course there is an end of the
case."
But whatever may be the English rulings as to the effect
of contract immunity from negligence as entitling the ship
owner to claim in general average, we do not think the cases
are parallel. By the English law the parties are left free to
contract with each other, and each party can define his rights
and limit his liability as he may think fit. Yery different is
the case where a statute prescribes the extent of liability and
exemption.
Upon the whole, we think that in determining the effect of
this statute in restricting the -operatio: "of-general and wellsettled principles, our proper course is to treat those principles
as still existing, and to limit the relief from their operation

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, McKenna, JJ.

afforded by the statute to that called for by the language itself of the statute.
Our conclusion accordingly is, that the question certified to
us by the Court of Appeals should be answered in the
negative, and it is so ordered:.

MR. JUSTICE BRowN, with whom was MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,
dissenting.
I am constrained to dissent from the opinion of the court
in this case. While I freely concede that the owner of a ship
is not by the.general maritime law entitled to a general average contribution, where the loss is occasioned by the fault of
the master or crew, I regard the third section of the Harter
-Act as introducing a new feature into the law of carriage by
sea, and as eliminating altogether the question of negligence
in navigation. This section provides in substance that if the
owner shall exercise due diligence to make his vessel in all
respects seaworthy, and properly manned, equipped and supplied, he shall not "be held responsible for damage or loss
resulting from faults or errors in navigation or in the management" of his vessel.
As the steamer Irrawaddy was ,stranded on the coast of
New Jersey, confessedly by the negligent navigation of her
master, it -will not be contended that she or her owners became liable to the owners of the cargo for any damages
thereby occasioned. It is said, however, that while the
Harter Act may be appealed to in defence of any action by
the cargo against the ship, it is not available by the ship
owner in a suit against the owners of the cargo for a contribution to the general average 'expenses occasioned by such
stranding. 'If this be so, then the ship is thereby made responsible for a fault in her navigation to the exact extent to
whiQh she would be otherwise entitled to a general average
contribution, and the statute to that-extent is disregarded and
nullified. .I consider this a narrow and technical construction
of the act. I think the. third section makes 'the question of
fault in navigation an immaterial one, and eliminates it fiom

THE IRRAWADDY.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, McKenna, JJ.

the relations of the ship to the cargo. The section, therefore,
becomes available to the ship owner either as a weapon of
defence or attack. If the ship owner stands in relation to
the cargo as if no fault had been committed, it is impossible
for me to see why he may not avail himself oi this in whatever shape the question may arise.
As the Harter Act is a novelty in maritime legislation, of
course it would be vain to search for authorities based upon
a similar enactment; but cases are by no means wanting
where a similar question has arisen upon stipulations in bills
of lading exempting the owner of the ship from the consequences of faults or errors in navigation. While it is conceded in this country that such stipulations are of no avail, it
is equally well settled that by the law of England, and of
some, if not all, of the maritime nations of continental Europe,
they are held to be valid and binding.
In the case of The Carron Park,15 P. D. 203, a charter
party contained a stipulation that the ship owners were not
to be responsible "for any act, negligence or default whatsoever of their servants during the said voyage." The cargo
having been damaged by water pouring through a valve, negligently left open by one of the engineers, the owners brought
suit against the vessel, and the owners of the ship counterclaimed for a general average contribution. It was held by
the Admiralty Division that the ship was exonerated in the
suit against her by the owners of the cargo, and was also entitled to her contribution. In delivering the opinion, Sir
James Hannen, President, observed: "The claim for contribution as general average cannot-be maintained where it arises
out of any negligence for which the ship owner is responsible;
but negligence for which he is not responsible is as foreign to
him as to the person who has suffered by it. The loss would
not have fallen upon the ship owner, and the expenditure or
sacrifice made by him is not made to avert loss from himself
alone, but from the cargo owner." The case of Strangv. Scott,
14 App. Gas. 601, was cited to the proposition that the conditions ordinarily existing between parties standing in the relation of ship and cargo owners may be varied by special contract.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, McKenna, JJ.

It is true*that the case of The Carron Par was not one
arising upon d statute but upon a stipulation in a charter
party; but I think it can make no possible difference in the
legal aspect of the case whether. the exemption be conceded
by contract or granted by statute.
The case of Te'Ettrick, 6 P. D. 127, is not in point. In
that case the owner of a ship, sunk by a collision in the
Thames, admitted the collision to be his fault, and paid into
court eight pounds a ton in a suit to his liability. The ship
having been subsequently raised at the expense of the owner,
he sought to recover in general average against the cargo its
contributory portion of such expenses. It was held that this
could not be done, the courtbasing its opinion upon the language of the Merchants' SHipping Act, section 51, which
merely declared that the owners of the ship should not be
answerablefordamages in respect of, losses to ships or goods to
a greater amount than eight pounds per ton of the 'ship's tonnage. In delivering the opinion of the court, Sir George Jessel
observed: "That is merely the limit of the liability for damages. It does not in any way alter the property. . .
Now, property not being altered, the ground upon which the
ship owner puts.his claim is this: He says that the payment
of eight pounds per ton not only prevents his being answerable in damages for any more, but is equivalent to saying that
he shall be in exabtiy the same position as if no negligence
had been committed, and nothing had been done by him or
by his agents that would give rise to any liability. But I
cannot read the act so. All that it says is, that he sfiall not
be answerable in damages for any greater amount. It does
not make his acts right if they were previously wrongful.
It seems4o me that he would have no such right,"
(that is, to salvage on the cargo,) "for the statute does :not
destroy the effect of all that had been done, as it simply
diminishes or limits the liability in damages. If that is so,
of course that is an end of the case."
In the case of The Carron Park the stipulation exempted
the ship from the consequences of all negligence in her navigation. In The Etrick the act simply limited the liability of

THE IRRAWADDY.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, McKenna, XJ.

the owner in damages to a certain sum per ton:* The operation of the Merchants' Shipping Act was evidently intended
to be merely defensive. The Ettrick,though cited by counsel,
was not referred to by the court in The CarronPark,and was
evidently regarded as standing upon a different footing.
The French law in this particular is the same: The case of
Le N.ormand v. Comvagnie G6ndrale Transatlantique,1 Dalloz, Jurisprudence Gfntrale, 479, before the French Court of
Cassation, was an.appeal from the court of ]Rouen, which had
treated as general average the expenses of salvage and towage
of the steamer Am~rique, after having found that the abandonment of the ship was imputable only to the master and
crew, and had held that a contract exempting the ship from
the consequences of negligence, permitted the owners of the
ship to recover from the owners of the cargo their share in
contribution of the expenses of salvage. In the opinion of
the Court of Cassation upon appeal it was said that in this
bill of lading the defendant company, the owner of the
Am~rique, .had formally excepted the acts of God, of enemies, pirates, fire by land or sea, accidents proceeding from
the engine, boilers, steam and all other accidents of the sea
caused or not caused by the negligence, fault or error of the
captain, crew or engineers, of whatever nature these accidents
were, or whatever were their consequences. It was further
said that no law forbade the owners of ships from stipulating
that they would not answer for the faults of the captain or
crew; that such an agreement is no more contrary to public
policy than to fair dealing; that in uphol ding this clause in
the bill of lading by which the defendant company declined
responsibility for the faults of the crew, the decree appealed
from violated no law. It was thereby established that the
ship had been abapndoned at sea, after consultation with the
crew; that it had afterwards been picked up by three English vessels, which had towed it to Plymouth, where it was
voluntarily stranded, and that the defendant company had
reclaimed it from the salvors by paying the expenses of salvage and towage; and thereupon the court held that this was
a damage voluntarily suffered, that the expenses were incurred

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, McKenna, JJ.

for the common safety of the ship and cargo, and without the
payment of which the salvors would not have been obliged
to deliver over the vessel, and that such expenses constituted a
claim for general average, notwithstanding the abandonment
of the shi p was not'attributed to a peril of the sea, but to the
fault of the master and crew. The decree was affirmed.
The case of Crowley v. Saint Fr rem, 10 Revue Internationale du Droit Maritime, 147, also came before the French Court
of Cassation in 1894. In this case, an English ship, the Alexander Lawrence, on a voyage from Calcutta to Boulogne, with
a cargo of jute, took fire through the carelessness of a sailor.
The ship put into Port Louis, an immediate port, with the
cargo still burning, and extinguished it, subsequently arriving
at her port of destination. By a clause in the charter party
the ship was exonerated from responsibility for negligence.
It was held, that the expenses of putting into the port of
refuge should be classed as general average, and not as particular average, as it had been held by the court below. The
decree of that court (of Douai) was therefore reversed.
A case arising from the same disaster to the Alexander
Lawrence, between the owners and the underwriters, 11 Revue
Internationale, 41, subsequently came before the Court of
Appeal of Orleans, on appeal from the Tribunal of Commerce of Boulogne, where a similar ruling was made, and the
expenses of putting into port classed as general average under
the stipulation in the charter party, although in the absence
of such stipulation they would have been chargeable to the
ship.
The same question came before the Tribunal of Commerce
of Antwerp, Belgium, in the case of Te Steamer Alacrity,
11 Revue Internationale, 123, where the cargo was held to
contribute to the expenses of-putting into a port of refuge,
in consequence of a collision due to the fault of the captain,
the ship owner being ex6nerated by his contract from the
consequences of this fault. In this case the parties had stipulated that general average expenses should be payable under
the York-Antwerp rules, and that the ship should not be
responsible for the faults of the captain or crew. It was

THE IRRAWADDY.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, McKenna, JJ.

held that, by the Belgium law, parties might contract with
reference to these rules, which declared the exfenses of putting into a port of refuge-general average; that there was no
difference between such eip6nses when occasioned by an inevitable accident or in consequence of the faultof the 6aptain; that the parties having stipulateZd that the ship should
be exonerated from the consequences of such fault, the owners of the cargo were bound for their contributory'shares.
From the case of The ary Thoramq, P. D. 1894, p. 108, it
would seem that the Dutch law is different; but it was said
by Mr. Justice Barnes in this case (p. 116) that if the question
had arisen in this country (England) "the point could hardly
have occurred, as it has done, because it has already been decid'ed by Lord IHannen, in the case of The Ca2arom Park,that the
cargo owners would be liable for the contribution in general
average under circumstances where the accident has occurred
through negligence, but where by the bills of lading the owners
of the ship were not responsible for that negligence."
These are all the cases I have been able to find directly upon
the question under consideration, but there is a class of analogous cases which, I think, have a strong bearing in the same
direction. It is well known that by the law of England a
ship is not responsible to another for a collision brought about
by the negligence of a compulsory pilot. Of course where
such ship is solely to blame the rule is easy of application.
No recovery can be had against her. .But where the faults
of the two vessels are mutual, a different question arises;
and in the case of The Hector, 8 P. D. 218, it was held that,
where a collision occurred by the mutual fault of two vessels,
and one of such vessels had on board a compulsory pilot,
whose fault contributed to the accident, the owner of that
vessel was entitled to recover a moiety of the damages sustained by her without any deduction on account of the damage sustained by the other; in other words, she was not
responsible for any portion of the damage done to the other
vessel, but might recover the half of her damages from such
other vessel. Said the Master of the Rolls in delivering the
opinion:

OCTOBER TERMf, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, McKdnna, JJ.

"With regard t6 the Augustus, she was found to blame
for the collision, therefore she is, in the first instance, liable
to pay all 'the damage which the Hector has suffered. With
regard to the Hector, it is found that 'her owners are not- to
blame, but that her navigation was to blame; but that was
the fault of the pilot. The oiners are not liable for this
default, therefore they are not liable for anything to the
owners of th6 Augustus. -What is the result? That the liability of the owners of the Augustus is declared t6 have been
proved, but the liability of the owners of the Hector is disproved, and they are dismissed from the suit. Therefore no
balance is to be calculated; the owners of the Hector are not
liable for a single pennyworth of the damage done to the
Augustus. The owners of the Augustus must go against the
pilot and get what they can out of him; but the Hector is
entitled to succeed."
See also Dudman v. Dublin Port and Docks Board, Irish
IRep. 7 0. L. 518;' aight v. Tedeastle, 6 App. Cas. 217.
It seems to me that the cases above dited show an almost
uniform trend of opinion against the principle laid down by
the court in this case. I do not contend that the decisions of
the English, French and Belgian courts should be recognized
by us any further than their course of reasoning commends
itself to our sense of justice; but upon questions of maritime
law, which is but a branch of international law, I think the
opinions of the learned and experienced judges of these courts
are entitled to something more than respectful consideration.
It is for the interest of merchants and ship owners, whose
relations and dealings are internation.l in their character,
that the same construction should, so far as possible, be
placed upon the law maritime by the courts of all maritime
nations, and I am compelled to say that I see no reason for
creating an exception in this case.

