HUBBELL v. UNITED STATES.

203

Statement of the Case.

HUBBELL v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 198. Argued April 1,14, 1898.-Decided

May-81,

1898.

On the findings and the facts detailed in the statement and in the opinion of
this court, it is held that a former judgment of the Court of Claims in an
action by Hubbell agains t the United States in favor of the defendant
was upon the same cause of action which is set up in this suit, and, it not
having been reversed, or set aside, or appealed from, the claim herein
set up is res judicata, and the plaintiff is estopped from prosecuting it in
this action.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Claims dismissing the petition of William Wheeler Hubbell,
who, as patentee of an "improvement in cartridges," claimed
that the United States had manufactured and used cartridges
covered by his patent under an implied contract to pay a
reasonable royalty therefor.
The petition contained, amongst others, the following allegations: That "your petitioier is the first and original inventor of an improvement in cartridges, for which letters
patent of the United States were granted to him in due form
of law, and, according to law, dated and issued the 18th day
of February, A.D. 1879, vesting in him the exclusive. right to
make, vend and use the same for seventeen years from the
date thereof.
"Your petitioner has pending a suit for compensation up to
March-31, 1883, case No. 13,793, in the Court of Claims, and
has never sued any officer nor brought any other suit than
that before this present petition.
"Your petitioner prays for an account of the full and
entire number of -the said cartridges made or used by the defendant, its officers or employ6s in its service, or for distribution to the States, since the said March 31, 1883, to be
separately stated when ordered, and for leave to make the
same a part of this petition when precisely ascertainied by
amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

"Your petitioner further claims a just compensation for the
riaking or use by the defendant, its authorized officers or em-.
Wloy6s, for its service, of'his said patented invention of cartridge, to wit: he claims trhe sum of one hundred and ten
thousand dollars due to him on this behalf by the United
States from the 31st March, 1883, up to May 31, 1888.
"And he prays for judgment for all making or use of his
said patented invention from the said 31st March, 1883, to
said 31st May, 1888, by the defendant, its authorized officers
or employ~s in its. service, or on its behalf, in pursuance of
law, in the sum of bne hundred and ten thousand dollars, with
leave to amend his petition in this behalf when the precise
numbers have been duly reported by the proper departments
of the United States."
Upon the trial of this case the Court of Claims made,
amongst others, the following finding:
The facts in this case are the facts already found in case
No. 13,793, between the same parties as to the same subjectmatter, except as to the time since the beginning of the other
action, during which time, to wit, from the beginning of the
other action to the beginning of this action, the Governmeht
manufactured cartrid6es of the same form and kind as those
described in these findings, known as the 'reloading' caritridge, in which said case No. 13,793 the following proceedings were had and the following facts were found, which
facts are now found herein and are hereto annexed, as follows, to and including finding VIII."
The IXth finding is as follows:
"The following are', in substance, the proceedings had ir
case No. 13,793 between the same parties:
"April .19, 1883. " Petition filed.
"May 18, 1883. Aniendment to petition filed by allowance
of judge at chambers.
"June 4, 1883. Traverse flied..
"July 26, 1883. Amendment to petition filed and allowed..
"October 2,1884. Amendment to petition filed and allowed.
".December 15,1884. Amendment to petition allowed.
"January 10, 1885. Claimant's requests for facts and brief
filed.

HUBBELL v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Appellant.

"April 9, 1885. Additional brief for claimant filed.
"April 13, 1885. Defendants' requests for fa6ts and brief
filed.
"April 16, 1885. Argued and submitted.
"April 16, 1885. Claimant's brief of argument iled.
"April 20, 1885. Waiver filed by claimant.
"June 1, 1885. Davis, J., filed the opinion of the court.
Petition dismissed. Findings of fact filed.
"August 14, 1385. Motions for new trial, amendment of
findings and for reversal of judgment filed by claimant.
"August 21, 1885. Application for appeal filed by claimant.
"December 14, 1885. Motion of claimant for new trial
overruled, with leave to .submit to the Iconsideration of the
court. Findings II, III, IV amended in the form requested
by claimant in his motion, subject to objection of the defendants to their allowance.
"October 8, 1886. Claimant's request for findings of fact
filed under order of court.
"1March 15, 1887. Requests, etc., of October 8, 1886,
ordered to law docket.
"April 15,.1889. Motion to amend findings continued.
"November 18, 1889. Continued.
"November 12, 1891. Motion of claimant to amend order
of court filed.
"November 16, 1891. Motion of claimant to amend order
of court heretofore entered as to the evidence io'be used on
the trial allowed, subject to objections of defendants on the
argument."
Upon these and other facts found, the court dismissed the
petition, but as no opinion was filed, the reasons for this judgment do not appear.
Subsequently additional findings were made, but as they are
not m'aterial, they are not here repeated.
From the judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing his
petition, petitioner applied for and was allowed an appeal to
this court.
.Mr. F. P. Dewee8 and .Mr. George S. Boutwell for appellant.

OCTOBER TERI-, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr. C/ arls C. Binney for appellees.
hey General Pr'adt was on his brief.

.Mr. Assistant Attor-'

MR. JUSTiCe BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion. of the court.
As the claimant in his petition relies only upon the patent
of February 18, 1879, No. 212,313, for an improvement in
cartridges, and ds the proceedings in the former suit in the
Court of Claims were based, in part at least, upon this patent,
it will not be necessary to refer to any prior patents.
The only defence we -are cdlled upon to consider is that of
res adjudicata. As bearing upon this defence the followino
facts are pertinent:
April 19, 1883, claimant filed his petition in the Court of
Claims for a royalty upon cartridges and primer alleged by
him to have been manufactured by the United States under
his patents, between February 18, 1879, and March 31, 1883;
. June 1, 1885, this petition, after having been several times
amended, was dismissed and findings of facts filed;
August 147, 1885, motions for new trial, amendment of
findings, and for reversal of, judgment were filed by the
claimant;
August 21, 1885, application for appeal was filed by claimant, but such appeal does not appear to have been allowed;
December 14, 1885, motion for new trial was overruled by
the court, and .the claimant was given leave to- submit to the
consideration of the court certain amended findings, subject, however, to objection of the defendants as to their
allowance;
October 8, 1886, claimant's request for findings was filed
under order of' the court, and on March 15, 1887, it was
ordered to the law docket;
The argument was deferred from time to time until November 16, 1891, when the motion of claimant to amend an order
of court as to evidence was allowed subject to the objections
of the defendants on the argument.
The petition, under consideration was filed June. 11, 1888,

HUBBELL"v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

after the first petition had been dismissed by the Court of
Claims, and is based upon the patent issued February"18,
1879, which was one of the patents involved in the first petition. A claim is made in: this petition for royalty upon car-.
tridges manufactured, in accordance with this patent, and
used by the United' States for nearly six years prior to the
filing of this petition, but subsequent to the time of the filing
of the first petition.
Id this connection the court has found that the facts in 'the
case under consideration are the same as those in the prior
case, except as to the time since the beginning of the other
action, during which time, to wit, from the beginning of the
other action to the beginning of this action, the Government
manufactured cartridges of the same form and kind as those
described in these findings.
1. As the prior action was between the same parties, and was
based in part, at least, and principally, upon the same patent,
it would appear that the judgment of the court dismissing
the petition would operate as a complete estoppel to the present suit, unless the proceedings subsequent to the judgmentin.
the former suit in some way deprived that judgment of its
force and effect as r'es adjudicata..3 Robinson on Patents,

1017.
While the record of the former case was not sent up with
the transcript from the Court of Claims, it appears from the
petition in the case under consideration that, at th'e time the
petition was filed, there was a suit pending by the petitioner
in the Court of Claims in case No. 13,793, for compensation up
to March 31, 1883; and, in the findings, that the facts in both
cases were the same, except as to the time covered by the
petitions. The identity of the two actions with respect to the
parties, the subject-matter and the facts sufficiently'appear.
As it further appears that the petition in the former case was
dismissed upon an opinion filed and certain findings of fact, it
will be presumed to havb been dismissed upon the merits,
Loudenback v. Collins, 4 Ohio St. 251 ; and that such dismissal
covered every question put in issue by the pleadings, including
the validity of the pitent.and its use by the defendants .

OGTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

But if there were any doubt with regard to this point, it
would be resolved by an inspection of the opinion of the court
(which may be examined for the purposes of identification), as
it.is published in. 20 Court of Claims, -354, wherein it not only
appears that. the case was considered and-disposed of upon
the merits, but the court concludes its opinion (p. 370) in -the
following language:
"Upon our construction of the patent in isstie the Government cartridges'do not infringe the claimant's; but if we are
in error as to this, still the claimant cannot recover, as the
essential characteristics of his invention now found in the
Government cartridge were developed by officers of the army
in 1864-. That-its, if the relative position of the vents and the
wall of the fulminate chamber is a material part of the claimant's patent, the Government has not infringed, this feature
not appearing in its cartridlges; but if this position is not
material, still the claimant cannot recover, as the other chara6teristics of his invention, found in the cartridge now used
by the defendants, were introduced by them prior to the use
of the patent or the filing of the application for it, and even
prior to the appli cation of 1865."
. Whether the reasofis given by the Court of Claims for the
dismissal of this petition are correct or not; whether, indeed,
this judgment were right or wrong upon the facts presented,
is of no importance here. 'If such judgment were based upon
an erroneous view of the claimant's patent, it was his duty to
have promptly taken an appeal-to this court, .where the whole
case would have been reopened and the error of the Court of
Claims, if 'such 'there was,; would have been rectified.
It is. insisted by the claimant that in the former action the
mai4 contention arose upon the manhfacture and use of what
was known as the "cup-anvil cartridge," together with a certain reloading cartridge, which had been experimentally manufactured, and that no claims for .the "cup-anvil cartridge"
or for the reloading cartridge in that suit are in issue in the
case at bar. The suit, however, was upon the same patent,
'nd it was found by the Court of Claims to have been upon
the same facts, and we think the' estoppel operates upon every-.

HUBBELL v. UNITED. STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

thing which was, if not upon everything which' might )have
been, put in issue in the former case. The presumption is that
the issues were the same, and if they were in fact different, it
was incumbent upon the. claimant to show that the-prior case
was decided upon questions not involved .herein. We have
before us only a decision upon the merits, and upon the same
state of facts, of a claim identical with this, and we perceive
no reason why it should not operate as an estoppel.
But there seems to be nothing upon which to base claimant's argument that the issues were not the same. The findings show that the manufacture of the reloading cartridge
with the grooved anvil disk, referred to in finding VI, commenced at the Frankfort Arsenal in the month of July, 1879,
and that from February, 1879, to March 31, 1883, being the
period covered by the first suit, the United States manufactured 3,866,352 reloading cartridges. We see nothing to
indicate that these reloading cartridges were manufactured
experimentally, or that the issue as to these cartridges was
not presented and decided in the former case. The claim in
the present suit is also for reloading cartridges.
But, even if a somewhat different theory or state of facts
were developed upon the trial oT the second case, the former
judgment would not operate the less as an estoppel, since the
patentee cannot bring suit against an infringer upon a certain state of facts, and after a dismissal of his action, bring
another suit against the same party upon the same state
of facts, and recover upon a-different theory. The judgment
in the first action is a complete estoppel in favor of the-secessful party in a subsequent action upon the same state of
facts. Walker on Patents, ยง 468; Duboise v. Phil. Wilm,. &
Balt. .Raiload, 5 Fisher, 208; Bradley Mffg. Co. v. Eagle
.Xffg. Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 980.
2. It only remains to consider, then, whether any proceedings taken in the Court of Claims since the dismissal of such
petition deprived its judgment of its Aharacter as an estoppel.
A motion 'for. a new. trial was made August 14, 1885, but as
this motion was overruled in the following December, clearly
.this would not deprive the judgment of its efficacy as a plea
VOL. CLXI-14

.210

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

in bar. Indeed, it may well be doubted whether the pendency of a motion for a new trial would interfere in any way
with the operation of the judgment as an estoppel.
arrisv.
Barnhart, 97" California, 546; Chase v. Jefferson, 1 Houston,
(Del.) 257; Young v. Brehe, 19 Nevada, 379.
3, It further appears that on August 21, 1885, an application for an appeal was filed by the claimant, but as this
appeal was never allowed or perfected, and as it does not
appear that a tianscript of the record was ever filed in this
court, it is obvious that the authorities which hold that an
appeal perfected to a. superior court vacates the judgment
of the court below have no application to this case.
We are therefore of opinion that the defence of res adjudicata is sustained, and the judgment of the Court of Claims
dismissing the petition is, accordingly,
.Afflimed.

TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY .v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FRO31 THE COURT OF CLAI'M.
No. 149. Argued April29, 1898. -Decided

May 81, 1898.

The-court of claims made the following findings of fact in this case. I.
During the years 1889, 1890 and 1891 the claimant was a corporation
existing under the laws of New Jersey, organized in 1888, and having a
factory for carrying on its business at Bayonne, in that State. II. In
1889 and 1890 the claimant imported from Canada box shooks, and from
Europe steel rods, upon which importation duties amounting in the
aggregate to $39,636.20 were paid to the United States, of which sum
$837.68 was paid on the importation of the steel rods. III. The box
shooks imported as set forth in finding II were manufactured in Canada
from boards, first being planed and then cut into required lengths and
widths, intended to be substantially correct for making into boxes without further labor than nailing the shooks'together. They were then tied
up in bundles of sides, of *ends, of bottoms, and of tops of from fifteen
to twenty-five in a bundle for convenience in.handling and shipping. IV.
The. shooks so manufactured in Canada and imported into the United
States as aforesaid were, at the claimant's factory in Bayonne, New
Jersey, constructed into the bokes or cases set forth in Exhibit E to the

