OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of the whole case, and therefore is not one which this court
is called upon to answer. Cross v. Evans, 167 U. S. 60;
Warner v. New Orleans, 167 U. S. 467.
It will, thers/ore, be certified to the Court of Appeals that
the fist question is ansivered in the a]firmative, the third
in the negative, the fourth in the afflrmative. The second
and fiftt are not answered.

CLARK v. FITZGERALD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
No. 145. Argued December 7, 8, 1897. -Decided

IONTANA.

May 23,1S98.

The answer given to the fourth question in Del "MonteMining and Milling
Co. v. Last Chance Mining and .ililling Co. ante, 55, compels an affirmance of the judgment below in this case.

THE case was thus stated by the plaintiff in error in his
brief.
The plaintiff in error is the owner and in possession of the
Black Rock lode mining claim situated in the Summit Valley
mining district in Silver Bow County, Montana.
The defendants in error-own two thirds interest, and the
plaintiff in error one third interest in the Niagara lode mining claim situated in the same district and county. The
Niagara lode lies along side of the Black Rock lode so that
the south side line of the Niagara forms or is a part of the
north side line of the Black Rock lode.
The Black Rock lode is the older of the two locations. As
appears from the pleadings in the cause the vein or lode crosses
the east end line and south side line of the Niagara lode 513
feet west of the northeast corner of the Black Rock lode and
dips to the south and under the surface of the Black Rock lode
claim.
The, plaintiff in error entered upon that part of the vein,
east of the point where it crosses the division side line between
the Black Rock and Niagara lode claims and extracted ore

JOHNSON v. DREW.
Syllabus.

from .the said vein on its dip under the Black Rock lode at
the point above described, and which is designated on the diagram as "ore bodies."
Thereupon the defendants in error, who as stated suyra,
own two thirds interest in the Niagara; lode claim brought an
action asking for an accounting and judgment for two thirds
the value of the ore extracted by the plaintiff in error. Judgment was rendered against the plaintiff in error for the sum
of $2i,242.51, being two thirds the value of the ore extracted
and for the cost of the suit.
An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the State and
the judgment of the lower court was affirmed.
Mr. .Robert B. Smith for plaintiff in error.
Wood was on his brief.

.Mr..Robert L.

Mr. Tames 1.. Forbis for defendants in error.
Ni. JUsTicE

B.RE WR delivered the opinion of the court.

,The case is before us on error to the Supreme Court of Montana. Itis unnecessary to state its facts in detail, and it is sufficient to say that the answer given to the fourth question in
the opinion just filed in Del Monte .-Mining Co. v. Last Chance
.Mining Co., ante, 55, compels an affirmance of the judgment.
Afirmed.

JOHNSON v. DREW.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 239. Submitted April 28, 1S98.-Decided May 81, 1S98.

The substantial rights of the defendant were not prejudiced by the ruling
of the trial court sustaining the demurrer to the first equitable plea and
refusing leave to file the second, and such ruling involved merely a question of state practice.
The evidence in the case shows that the particular lots of land described In
the declaration were not embraced in the Fort Brooke reservation when
the patent was issued.
A party cannot defend against a patent duly issued for laud which is at
the time a part of the public domain, subject to administration by the

