.210

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

in bar. Indeed, it may well be doubted whether the pendency of a motion for a new trial would interfere in any way
with the operation of the judgment as an estoppel.
arrisv.
Barnhart, 97" California, 546; Chase v. Jefferson, 1 Houston,
(Del.) 257; Young v. Brehe, 19 Nevada, 379.
3, It further appears that on August 21, 1885, an application for an appeal was filed by the claimant, but as this
appeal was never allowed or perfected, and as it does not
appear that a tianscript of the record was ever filed in this
court, it is obvious that the authorities which hold that an
appeal perfected to a. superior court vacates the judgment
of the court below have no application to this case.
We are therefore of opinion that the defence of res adjudicata is sustained, and the judgment of the Court of Claims
dismissing the petition is, accordingly,
.Afflimed.

TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY .v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FRO31 THE COURT OF CLAI'M.
No. 149. Argued April29, 1898. -Decided

May 81, 1898.

The-court of claims made the following findings of fact in this case. I.
During the years 1889, 1890 and 1891 the claimant was a corporation
existing under the laws of New Jersey, organized in 1888, and having a
factory for carrying on its business at Bayonne, in that State. II. In
1889 and 1890 the claimant imported from Canada box shooks, and from
Europe steel rods, upon which importation duties amounting in the
aggregate to $39,636.20 were paid to the United States, of which sum
$837.68 was paid on the importation of the steel rods. III. The box
shooks imported as set forth in finding II were manufactured in Canada
from boards, first being planed and then cut into required lengths and
widths, intended to be substantially correct for making into boxes without further labor than nailing the shooks'together. They were then tied
up in bundles of sides, of *ends, of bottoms, and of tops of from fifteen
to twenty-five in a bundle for convenience in.handling and shipping. IV.
The. shooks so manufactured in Canada and imported into the United
States as aforesaid were, at the claimant's factory in Bayonne, New
Jersey, constructed into the bokes or cases set forth in Exhibit E to the

TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY v. UNITED STATES. 211
Statement of the Case.
petition herein, by nailing the same together with nails manufactured in
the United States out of the steel rods imported as aforesaid, and by
trimming when defective in length or width to make the-boxes or cases
without projecting parts, i.e.: the shooks were imported in bundles of
ends, of sides, of tops and of bottoms, each part corhing in bundles
separated from the bundles ofother parts. From one of these bundles
of ends the ends of a box are selected, to which the sides taken indiscriminately from any bundle of sides are nailed by nailing machines;
then the sides are trimmed off even with the ends by saws; then by bot-"
toming machines bottoms taken from any bundle of bottoms are nailed
on; then the bottoms are trimmed even with the sides by saws; then,
after being filled with cans, the tops are nailed on; and 'then the boxes
or cases are ready for exportation. The cost of the labor expended in
the United States in the necessary handling and in the nailing and trimming of the boxes as aforesaid was equal to about one tenth of the value
of the boxes. The principal part of the labor performed in trimming
the boxes was occasioned by the Canadian manufacturer not cutting.the
shooks Into the required lengths and widths for use in making the boxes,
and for which the claimants sdmetimes charged the cost of such trimming to the Canadian manufacturer. Held, that the company, when exporting these manufactured boxes, was not entitled to be allowed a
drawback under Rev. Stat. F3019.

THIS was a petition by a corporation of New Jersey for a
drawback of duties paid upon certain shooks imported from
Canada, and iron rods imported from Europe, which were
manufactured into boxes or cases by-the petitioner in its
factory at Bayonne, New Jersey, *and were 'subsequently
exported to foreign countries.
The Court of Claims made the following findings of fact':
"1. During the years 1889, 1890 and 1891 the claimant
was a corporation existing under the laws of New Jersey,
organized in 1888, and having a fact6ry for carrying on its
business at Bayonne, in that State.
"2. In 1889 and 1890 the claimant imported from Canada
box shooks, and from Europe steel rods, upon which importation duties amounting in the aggregate to $39,636.20 were paid
to the United States, of which sum $837.68 was paid on the
importation of the steel rods.
"3. The box shooks imported as set forth in finding 2 were
manufactured in Canada from boards, first being, planed and
then cut into required lengths and widths, intended to be sub-

I

OCTOBER TERfM; 1897.
Statement of the Case.

stantially correct for making into boxes without further labor
than nailing the shooks together. They were then tied up in
bundles of sides, of ends, of bottoms and of tops of from fifteen
to twenty-five in a bundle for convenience in handling and
shipping.
"4. The shooks so manufactured in Canada and imported
into the United States as aforesaid were, at the claimant's
factory in Bayonne, N. I., constructed into the boxes or cases
set forth in Exhibit E to the petition herein, by nailing the
same together with nails manufactured in the Uiited States
out of the steel rods imported as aforesaid, and by trimming
when defective in length or width to make the boxes or cases
without projecting parts, i.e.: the shooks were import.ed in
bundles of ends, of sides, of tops and of bottoms, each part
coming in bundles Separated from the bundles of other parts.
From one -of, these bundles of ends the ends of a box are
selected, to which the sidbs taken indiscriminately from any
bundle of sides are nailed by nailing machines; then the sides
are trimmed off even with the ends by saws; then, by bottoming machines bottoms taken from any bundle of bottoms are
nailed on; then the bottoms are trimmed even with the sides
by saws; then, after being filled with cans, the tops are nailed
on; and then the boxes or-cases are ready for exportation.
"The cost of the labor expended in the United States in the
necessary handling. and in the nailing and trimming of- the
boxes as aforesaid was equal to about one tenth of the value
ofthe boxes.
"The principal part of the labor performed in trimming
the boxes was occasioned by the Canadian, manufacturer not
cutting-the shooks into the required lengths and widths for
-use in making the. boxes, and for which the claimants sometimes charged the, cost of such trimming to the Canadian
manufacturer.
"5.,'The boxes or cases made 'as aforesaid- were exported
from the United States to foreign~countries in conformity with
the regulations of the Treasury Department then in force, to
wit, Treasury regulations of 1884, sections 966, 967 and 968,
hereinafter set out, rMlating to drawbacks upon the exporta-

TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY v. UNITED STATES. 21a
Statement of the Case.

tion of articles wholly manufactured of imported .materials,
and cases so manufactured were entered for such drawback
upon the exportation thereof.
"6. For about four years prior to July 31, 1889; the Treasury Department bad allowed and paid a drawback upon the
exportation of boxes mqde from imported shooks fastened together with nails made from imported 'steel rods as aforesaid;
and the Treasury Department was requested to pay the drawback on the exportation of the boxes or cases set forth in
Exhibit E to the petition, but refused for the reasons set forth
in the following communication addressed to the collector of
customs at New York:

"'TREAsuRY DEPARTmENT, July 31, 1889.
"'Sin: Referring to department letter of March 2, 1885,
addressed to the then collector at your port, in which a rate
of drawback was established on shooks used in the manufacture of boxes, you are informed that the department has
recently given the matter further consideration, and itappears
upon investigation that the boxes are made complete in Canada,
with the exception of nailing, and that the only manufacture
which they receive in this country consists in their thus being
nailed together, which part of the labor is oniitted to be done
in Canada merely for convenience in shipping tp the United
States.
"'The boxes appear to have been manufactured complete
abroad, and in the condition imported resemble th e finish ed
furniture imported in pieces which the department has heretofore held to be dutiable at the rate applicable.to finished
furniture. (See Synopsis, 4272.)
"'The -simple act of nailing them together is not, in the
opinion of the department, a manufacture within the meaning
of section .3019, Revised Statutes, and the authority to allow
drawback thereon is herebyrevoked.
"' You will accordingly receive no further entries for drawback in such cases.
"'Respectfully yours,

GEORGE 0. TICHNOR,
"'Asi8ltant-Seoretary.
"'Collector of Customs, New York.'

OCTOBER. TER-M, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"7.- The Treasury regulations of 1884 referred to in finling
5, viz., articles 966, 967 and 968, are as follows:.
"'ART. 966. On articles wholly manufactured of imported
materials on which duties have been 'paid, a drawback is to
be allowed, on exportation, equal in amount to the duty paid
on such imported materials, less 10 per cent thereof, except
on exportations of refined sugars, in which case the legal
retention is 1 per cent.
"-'ART. 967. The entry in such'cases will be as follows, and
must be filed with the collector at least six hours before putting or lading any of the merchandise on board the vessel or
other conveyance for exportation.'"
Here follows a form of entry foi exportation with oaths of
exporter and of the proprietor and foreman of manufactory.
Article 968 contained a form of bond for exportation.
Upon the foregoing findings the court found 'the ultimate
fact, so far as it was a question of fact, that the boxes or cases
so exported were not manufactured in the United States, and,
as, a conclusion of law, that the claimant was not entitled to
recover; and the petition was dismissed.. Whereupon petitioner
appealed to this court.
-Mr.-Edwim B. Smitki for appellant.
Mr. Assastant Attorney General Hoyt for appellees.
Felix Brannigan was on his brief.

-Mr.

M . JusTice. BROwN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The single question presented for our consideration in this
case is whether the boxes or cases exported by the petitioner
were "'wholly mahufactured" in the United States within the
meaning of the section hereinafter cited.
The facts were, i4 substance, that the claimant imported
from Canada in 1889 and 1890 box shooks, and from Europe
steel rods, upon -which duties were paid to the amount of
$39,636.20 under the tariff act of Maroh 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 488,
502, which levied a duty of thirty per cent upon "casks and

TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

215

Opinion of the Court.

barrels, empty sugar-box shooks, and packing boxes, and
packing-box shooks, of wood, not specially enumerated or
provided for in this act." The box shooks so imported were
manufactured in Canada from boards, which were planed and
cut into the required lengths and widths for making into boxes
without further labor than nailing them together. They were
then tied up into bundles of sides, ends, bottoms and tops, of
from fifteen to twenty-five in a bundle, for convenience in
handling and shipping. After importation, they were made
up into boxes or cases, by nailing the proper parts together
with nails manufactured in the United States out of the
imported steel rods, and by trimming, when defective in
length or width, to make the boxes or cases without projecting parts.
The ends and sides of the boxes were nailed together by
nailing machines, and the sides trimmed off e'en with the ends
by saws. Then bottoms were nailed on and 'trimmed in the
same rmanner. After being filled, the tops were nailed on,
and the boxes made ready for exportation. The cost of the
labor expended in 'the United States in the nailing, handling
and trimming of the boxes was about one tenth of the value
of the boxes. The principal part of the labor in trimming the
boxes was occasioned by the Canadian manufacturer not
cutting the shooks into the required lengths and widths for
making the boxes, the cost of which trimming the claimant
sometimes charged to the Canadian manufacturer.
Upon this state of facts petitioner made claim for duties paid
as above upon the shooks under Rev. Stat. ยง 3019, which reads

as follows:
"There shall be allowed on all articles wholly manufactured
of materials imported, on which duties have be6n paid when
exported, a drawback equal in amount to the duty paid on
such materials, and no more, to be ascertained under such
regulations as shall be prescribed by the Secretary of the
Treasury. Ten per centum .on the amount of all drawbacks
so allowed shall, however, be retained for the use of the United
States by the collectors paying such drawbacks respectively."
The question arises whether the boxes in question were

OCTOBER TERM, 1897,
Opinion of the Court.

"wholly manufactured" within the United States of "materials imported" from abroad. The section above quoted uses
the words "wholly manufactured of materials imported," but
we understand it to be conceded that the words "in the
United States" should be considered as being incorporated
into the section after the word "manufactured." The provision would be senseless without .this interpolation. The
object of the section wa evidently not only to build up an
export .trade, but to encourage manufactures in this country,
where such manufactures are intended for exportation, by
granting a rebate of duties upon the i-aw or prepared materials imported, and thus enabling the manufacturer to com-:pete in foreign markets with the same articles manufactured
in other countries. In determining whether the articles in
question were wholly manufactured in the United States, this
.object should be borne steadily in mind.
The primary meaning of the word "manufacture" is something made by hand, as distinguished from anatural growth;
but as machinery, has largely supplanted this primitive method,
the word is now ordinarily used to denote an article upon the
material of which labor has been expended to make the finished product. Ordinarily, the article so manufactured takes
a different form, or at least subserves a different purpose from
the original materials; and usually it is given a different
name. Raw materials may be and often are subjected to.
successive processes of manufacture, each one of which is
complete in itself, but several of which may be required to
make the final product. Thus, logs are first manufactured
into boards, planks, joists, scantlings, etc., and then by entirely
different processes are fiishioned into boxes, furniture, doors,
window sashes, trimmings and the thousand and one articles
manufactured wholly or in part of wood. The steel spring of
a watch is made ultimately from iron ore, but by a large
number of processes or transformations, each successive step
in which is a distinct process of manufacture, and for which
the article so manufactured receives a different name.
The material of which each manufacture is formed, and to
which reference- is made in section 3019, is not necessarily the

TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY v. UNITED STATES. 217
Opinion of the Court.

original raw material- in this case the tree or log- but the
product of a prior manufacture; the finished product of one
manufacture thus becoming. the material of the next in rank.
Thid.case, then, resolves itself into the question whether the.
materials out of which these boxes were constructed were the
boards which were manufactured in Canada or the shooks
which'were imported into the United States.
While the planing and cutting of the boards in Canada
into the requisite lengths and shapes for the sides, ends,*tops
and bottoms of.the boxes, was doubtless a partial'manufacture, it was not a complete one, since the boards so cut are
not adaptable as material for other and different objects of
manufacture, but were designed and appropriate .only for a
particular purpose, i.e., for the manufacture of boxes of a prescribed size, and were useless for any other purpose. It is
not always easy to determine the difference between a complete and a partial manufacture, but we may say generally
that an article which can only be used for a particular purpose, in which the process of manufacture stops short of the
completed article, can only be said to be partially manufactured within the meaning of this section ; nor can we regard
the mere assembling and nailing together of parts complete
in themselves and destined for a particular purpose as a complete and separate manufacture. Thus, chairs are made of
bottoms, backs, legs and rounds, each one of these parts being
made separately and in large quantities. If imported in this
condition from abroad, and the parts were assembled and
glued or screwed together here, we think it *entirelyclear that
such chairs would not be wholly manufactured in the United
States.; and the same may be said of the staves, heads and
hoops which constitute a barrel. Upon the theory of the
claimant, if all the parts which constitute a wooden house
were made separately, as they sometimes are, and imported
from abroad and put together in this country in the form of
a house, it would follow that the house must be said to have
been wholly constructed in this country.
It may be said generally, although .not universally, that a
complete manufacture is either the ultimate product of prior

.OCTOBER TERM, 1897,.
Opinion of, the "Court.

successive manufactures, such as a watch spring, or a penknife, or an intermediate product which may be used for different purposes, such for instance as pig iron, iron bars, lumber
or cloth ; while a partiil manufacture is a mere stage in'the development of the material toward an ultimate and predestined
.product, such for instance as the different parts of a watch
which need only to be put together to make the finlshed article.
If, for instance, the wheels, chain, springs, dial, hands and case
of a watch were all imported from abroad, and merely put together in this country, we do not think it dould be said that the
watch was - wholly, manufactured within the United States.
The same remark we think may be made with reference to the
shooks 'in this case, which were practically worthless except
for being put together for a box of a definite size.
The distinction here made was alluded to in the opinion of
this court:in Worthington v. Robbins, 139 U. S. 337, -341, in
which the -question arose whether "white hard enamel," used
for various purposes, including watch dials, was d.utiable as
"watch materials," or as a simple m,anufacture. In delivering the opinion of the court Mr. Justice Blatchford said:
"The article in question was, to all intents and purposes, raw
material.' If it were to be okssed as '.watch materials,' it
would follow that any metal which could ultimately be used,
and was ultimately used, in the manufacture of a watch, but
c'ould be used for other purposes also, would be dutiable. as.
watch materials.' In order to be ' watch materials' the article must in'itself bear marks of its special adaptation for use
in making watches. The fact that the article in question was
used in the manufacture of watches has no relation to the
condition 'of the article as imported, but to what afterwards
the importer did with it."
It does not necessarily follow that the shooks, in question
were not a manufacture, and dutiable as such, or that they
were dutiable as boxes, though destined to be put together
Schoverling, 146 U. S. 76,
as such, since in United S1ates
finished gunstocks with locks and mountings, unaccompanied
by barrels, were held to be dutiable as. manufactures of iron,
and not as "guns."
'v.

TIDE WATER OIL" COMPANY v. UNITED STATES. 219
Opinion of the Court.

Bearing in mind that the object of the drawback was
partly, at least, to encourage domestic manufactures, and that
all the substantial work done in this country was in nailing
together the tops, bottoms and sides of these boxes, we think
it clear that it cannot be said that the boxes so constructed
were wholly manufactured in the United States. The work
done in trimming or sawing off the ends of the boards was
a mere incident to the nailing together, and was caused by
the inadvertence, negligence or insufficient instructions givento the Canadian manufacturer, and was no proper part of the
manufacture. While the amount of work done to cbnstitute
a new manufacture may not be great, Saltontall v. Wiebusoh,
156 U. S. 601, yet we think the fact that in the transfer of
those boards to the completed boxes, the cost of labor expended in the United* States represented only one tenth in
value of the boxes is important, especially when taken in connection with the fact that the shooks when imported were
usable only for a single purpose. It is quite improbable that
Congress intended to allow a drawback upon the nine tenths
represented by the Canadian material for the benefit of the
one tenth represented by the labor put upon the boxes in this
country. What was doubtless meant was to allow this dr'awback upon articles manufactured wholly and bonaFde within
the United States, either from the raw material, or from ma:terial which was the result of the last complete manufacture.
While the nails, which were used in fastening the shooks
together and were made from iron rods imported from abroad,
may be said to have been wholly manufactured in the United
States within the principles here announced, they lost their
identity as such when used in nailing the shooks together,
and became so far a part of the boxes that no separate drawback could be claimed for them.
There was no error in dismissing the petition, and the judgment of the Court of Claims is therefore

Affirmed.

