CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.

SOHOLLENBERGER -.

PENNSYLVANIA.

PAUL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
PAUL v. PENNSYLVANIA..
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 86, ST, 8.

Argued March 23, 24, 1898.-Decided May 23, 1S98.

Oleomargarine has, for nearly a quarter of a century, been recognized in
Europe and in the United States as an article of food and commerce,
and was recognized as such by Congress in the act of August 2, 1886,
c. 840; and, being thus a lawful article of commerce, it cannot be wholly
excluded from importation into a State from another State where it was
manufactured, although the State into which it was imported may so
regulate the introduction as to insure purity, without having the power
to totally exclude it.
A sale of a ten pound package of oleomargarine, manufactured, packed,
marked, Imported and sold under the circumstances set forth in detail
in the special verdict in this case, was a valid sale, although made to a
person who was himself a consumer; but it is not decided that this right
of sale extended beyond the first sale by the importer after its arrival
within the State.
The importer-had not only a right-to sell personally, but he had the right
to employ an agent to sell for him, and a sale thus effected was valid.
The right of the importer to sell does not depend upon whether the original package was suitable for retail trade or not, but is the same, whether
VOL. CLXXI-I

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
to consumers, or to wholesale dealers, provided he sells in original
packages.
Act No. 21 of the legislature of Pennsylvania, enacted May 21, 1885, enacting that "no person, firm or corporate body shall manufacture out of
any oleaginous substance, or any compound of the same, other than that
produced from unadulterated milk or of crean from the same, any-article
designed to take the place of butter or cheese produced from pure unadulterated milk, or cream from the same, or of any imitation or adulterated butter or cheese, nor shall sell or offer for sale, or have in his, her
or their possession with intent to sell the same as an article of food"
and making such act a misdemeanor, punishable by hne and imprisonment,'is invalid to the extent that it prohibits the introduction of oleomargarine from another State, and its sale in the original package.

TaE questions in these three cases are the same, and they
arise out of the selling of certain packagds of oleomargarine.
The plaintiffs in error were indicted for and convicted of a
violation of a statute of Pennsylvania prohibiting such sale.
The act (iNo. 25) was passed'on the 21st of May, 1885, and is
to be found in the volume of the ]aws 6f Pennsylvania for
that year, page 22. It provides as follows:
"That no person, firm or corporate body shall manufacture
out of any oleaginous substance or any compound of the same,
other than that produced from unadulterated milk or of cream
from the same, any article designed to take. the place of butter
or cheese produced from pure unadulterated milk, or cream
from the. same, or of any imitation or adulterated butter or
cheese, nor shall sell or offer for sale,'or have in his, her or
their possession with intent to sell the same as an article of
food."
A violation of the act is made a misdemeanor and punishable by fine and imprisonment.
The jury found a special verdict in each case. The only
difference between.the facts stated in the verdict in 'Nmber
86 and those contained in the othex cases is that in the latter
the package sold was ten pounds instead of forty pounds and
was sold by the plaintiffs in error in those cases as agents of
a different principal, carrying on the same kind of business
in the Stats of Illinois, and the package was sold to a different person and upon a different date.

SCHOLLENBERGER, v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Statement of the Case.

The following facts were set out in the special verdict in
Number 86:
"(1.) The defendant, George Schollenberger, is a resident
and citizen of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and is the
duly authorized agent in the city of Philadelphia of the Oakdale Manufacturing Company of Providence, Rhode Island.
"(2.) The said Oakdale Manufacturing Company is engaged
in the manufacture of oleomargarine in the said city of Providence and State of Rhode Island, and as such manufacturer
has complied with all the provisions of the act of Congress of
August 2, 1886, entitled ' An act defining butter; also imposing a tax upon and regulating the manufacture, sale, importation and exportation of oleomargarine.'
"(3.) The said defendant, as agent aforesaid, is engaged in
business at 219 Callowhill street, in the city of Philadelphia,
as wholesale dealer in oleomargarine, and was so engaged on
the 2d day of October, 1893, and is not engaged in any other
business, either for himself or others.
"(14.) The said defendant, on the 1st day of July, 1893,
paid to the collector of internal revenue of the first district
of Pennsylvania the sum of four hundred and eighty dollars
as and for a special tax upon the business, as agent for the
Oakdale Xvanufacturing Company, in oleonargarine, and obtained from said collector a writing in the words following:
'Stamp for
Special tax,
$480
United States
$480
per year.
internal revenue.
per year.
No. A 434.
No. A 434.
"' Received from George Schollenberger, agent for the Oakdale Manufacturing Company, the sum of four hundred and
eighty dollars for special tax on the business of wholesale
dealer in oleomargarine, to be carried on at 219 Callowbill
street, Philadelphia, State of Pennsylvania, for the period
represented by the coupon or coupons hereto attached.
"'Dated at Philadelphia, Pa., July first, 1893.
"' [SEAL.]
WILLIAM l. DOYLE,
"'$480.
Collector, Firdst District of Penna!'

OCTOBER TERMS, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

* "The following clauses appear on the margin of the above:
"'This stamp is simply a receipt for a tax due the Government, and does not exempt the holder from any penalty or
punishment provided for by the law of any State for carrying
-on the said business within such State, and does not authorize
the commencement nor the continuance of such business contrary to the laws of such State or in places prohibited by a
municipal law. (See section 3243, Revised Statutes, U. S.)
"'Severe penalties are imposed for neglect or refusal to
place and keep this stamp conspicuously in your establishment or place of business. Act of August 2, 1886.'
"cAttached to this were coupons for each month of the year
in form as follows:
"' Coupon for special tax on wholesale dealer in oleomargarine for October, 1893.'
"(5.) On or before the said second day of October, 1893,
the said Oakdale Manufacturing Company shipped to'the said
defendant, their agent aforesaid, at their place of business in
Philadelphia, a package of oleomargarine separate and apart
from all other packages, being a tub thereof containing forty
pounds, packed, sealed, 'marked, stamped and branded in accordance with the requirements of the said act of Congress of
August second, 1886. The said package was an original
package, as required by said act, and was of such form, size
and weight as is used by producers or shippers for the purpose
of securing both convenience in handling and security in.
transportation of merchandise between dealers in the ordinary
course of actual commerce, and the said form, size and 'weight
were adopted in good faith and not for the purpose of evading the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, said
package being one of a number of'similar packages forming
one consignment shipped by the said company to the said
defendant. Said packages forming said consignment were
unloaded from the cars and placed in defendant's store and
then offered for sale as an article'of food.
"(6.) On the said second day of October, 1893, in the said
city of Philadelphia, at the place of business aforesaid, the
said defendant, as wholesale 'dealer aforesaid, sold to James

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVANIA.

5

Statement of the Case.

Anderson the said tub or package mentioned in the foregoing
paragraph, the oleomargarine therein contained remaining in
the original package; being the same package, with seals,
marks, stamps and brands unbroken, in which it was packed
by the said manufacturer in the said city of Providence,
Rhode Island, and thence transported into the city of Philadelphia and delivered by the carrier to the defendant; and
the said .tub was not broken nor opened on the said premises of the said defendant, and as soon as it was purchased
by the said James Anderson it was "removed from the said
.premises.
"1(7.)" The oleomargarine contained in said tub was manufactured out of an oleaginous substance not produced from
unadulterated milk or cream, and was an article .designed to
take the place of butter, and sold by the defendant, to *James
Anderson as an article of food; but the fact that the articlewas oleomargarine and not butter .was -made known by the
defendant to the purchaser, and there was no attempt or purpose on the part of the defendant to sell the article as butter,
or any understanding on the part of the purchaser that he
was buying anything but oleomargarine, and the said oleo*margarine is recognized by the said act of Congress of August
2, 1886, as an article of commerce.
"(8.) The above transaction specifically found by the jury
is one of many transactions of like character made by the,
defendant aluring the last two years."
Upon this special verdict the trial court directed judgment
to be entered for the defendant. The case was taken by the
Commonwealth to the Supreme Court of the State, where,
after argument, the judgment was reversed and judgment
was entered in favor of the Commonwealth, and the record
remanded that sentence might be imposed by the court below.
The. plaintiffs in error have brought these judgments of conviction before. this court for review by virtue of writs of
error.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of the State is to be
found reported under the name of Commonwealth v. Paul,in
170 Penn. St. 284.

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion bf the Court.

Mr.
-lr. William .D:Guthrie for plaintiffs in error.
Richard C. Dale, Mr. Henry R. Edmunds and ir. Albert
I. Veeder were on his brief.

Mr. John G. Johnson for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PEOK&
opinion of the court.

, after stating the facts, delivered the

Counsel in behalf of the Commonwealth rests the validity
of the statute in question upon two principal grounds:
(1.) That oleomargarine is a newly invented or discovered
article, and that each State has the right in the case of. a
newly invented or. discovered food product to determine for
its citize'ns the question whether it is wholesome and nondeceptive, and neither the Congress of the United States nor
the legislatures of other States can deprive it of this right, and
that being such newly discovered article it does not belong to
the class universally recognized as articles of commerce, and
hence the. legislation of Pennsylvania does not regulate or
affect commerce; that non-discriminative'legislation enacted
in good faith for the protection of health and the-prevention
of deception, not hampering the actual transportation of merchandise, is not presumptively void but i§ conclusively valid.
(2.) That if the right of citizens of another State to send
oleomargarine into the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania be
admitted, it can only be introduced in original packages suitable for ",vho~esale trade, and where the article imported is
intended and used for the supply of the retail trade or is
sold by retail directly to-the consumer, the package in which
it is imported from another State is not an "original package"
within the protection of the interstate commerce provision of
the Constitution of the United States.
These are the main grounds upon which the conviction is
sought to be sustained. The Supreme Court of the State upheld'the statute upon the ground that it was a legitimate exercise of the police power of the State not inconsistent with the
right of the owner of the product-to bring it within the State

SCHOLLENBERGER, v. PEINNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

in appropriate packages suitable for sale to the wholesale dealer
and not intended for sale at retail by the importer to the consumer, and that in the cases under consideration the packages
were not wholesale original packages and their sale amounted
to a mere retail trade.
Upon the first ground for sustaining the conviction in these
cases the argument upon the part of the Commonwealth runs
somewhat as follows: It may be admitted that actually pure
oleomargarine is not dangerous to the public health, but
whether it be pure depends upon the method of its manufacture, and its purity cannot be ascertained by any superficial
examination, and any certain and effective supervision of the
method of its manufacture is impossible. It is manufactured
to imitate in its appearance butter, with a view to deceiving
the ultimate consumer as to its_ character, and this deception
cannot be avoided by .coverings, labels or marks upon the
product; the legislature of Penisylvania was therefore so
far justified in protecting its citizens against oleomargarine
by prohibiting its sale; that the legislation in question does
not discriminate in favor of the citizens of Pennsylvania or
in any manner against any particular State or any particular
manufacturer of the article, and, as there is nothing in the
case tending to prove the contrary, it must be assumed that
the legislation was enacted in good faith for the protection of
the health of the citizens and for the prevention of deception,
and as such legislation did not hamper the actual transportation of merchandise, the statute must be held to be within the
power of the legislature to enact, and is therefoi'e valid; at
all events, the State has a right in cases of newly invented
food products to determine for its citizens the question whether
they are wholesome and non-deceptive, and that oleomargarine
is one of that class of products, and is necessarily subject to
the right of the State either to regulate or absolutely to prohibit i sale.
In the examination of this subject the first question t6 be
considered is whether oleomargarine is an article of commerce'?
No affirmative evidence from witnesses called to the stand
and speaking directly to that subject is found in the record.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

-

We must determine the question with reference to those facts
which are so well and .universally known that courts will take
notice of them. without particular proof being adduced in
regard to them, and also by reference to those dealings of
the commercial world which are of like notoriety.
Any legislation of Congress upon the subject must, of course,
be regarded by this court as'a fact of the firsi importance.
If Congress has affirmatively pronounced the article to be a
proper subject of commerce, we should rightly be influenced
by that declaration. By reference to the statutes we discover
that Congress in 1886 passed "An act defining butter, also
imposing a tax upon and regulating the manufacture, sale,
importation and exportation of oleomargarine." Act of August 2, 1886, c. 840, 24 Stat. 209. In that statute we find that
Congress has given a definition of the meaning of oleomargarine and has imposed a special tax on the manufacturers
of the article, on wholesale dealers and upon retail dealers
therein, and the provisions of the Revised Statutes in relation
to special taxes are, so far as applicable, made to extend to
the special taxes imposed by the third section of the act, and
to the persons upon whom they are imposed. Manufacturers
are required to file with the proper collector of internal revenue such notices, and to keep such books and conduct their
business under such supervision as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, may by regulation require. Provision is made for the
packing of oleomargarine by the manufacturer in packages
containing not less than ten pounds and marked as prescribed
in the act, and it'provides that all sales made by manufacturers
of oleomargarine and wholesale dealers inoleomargarine shall
be in the original stamped packages. A tax of two cents.per
pound is laid upon oleomargarine, to be paid by the manufacturer and the tax levied is to be represented by coupon stamps.
Oleomargarine imported from foreign countries is taxed, in
addition to the import duty imposed on the same, an internal
revenue tax of fifteen cents per pound. Provision is made for
warehousing, and a penalty imposed for selling the oleomargarine thus imported if not properly stamped; Provision. is

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

also made for the appointment of an analytical chemist and
microscopist by the Secretary of the Treasury, and such
chemist or microscopist may examine the different substances
which may be submitted in contested cases, and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue is to decide in such cases as to the
taxation, and his decision is to be finil. The Commissioner
is also empowered to decide "whether any substance made in
imitation or semblance of butter, and intended for human
consumption, contains ingredients deleterious to the public
health; but in case of doubt or contest his decisions in this
class of cases may be appealed from to-a board hereby constituted for the purpose, composed of the Surgeon General of
the Army, the Surgeon General of the Navy and the Commissioner of Agriculture, and the decisions of this board shall be
final in the premises." Provision is also made for the
removal of oleomargarine from the place of its manufacture
for export to a foreign country without payment of tax or
afilxing of stamps thereto, and there is a penalty denounced
against any person engaged in carrying on the business of
oleomargarine who should defraud or attempt to defraud the
United States of the tax.
This act shows that Congress at the time of its passage in
1886 recognized the article as a proper subject of taxation
and as one which was the subject of traffic and of exportation
to foreign countries and of importation from such countries.
Its manufacture was recognized as a lawful pursuit, and taxation was levied upon the manufacturer of the article, upon
the wholesale and retail dealers therein, and also upon the
article itself.
As to the extent of the manufacture and its commercial
nature, it is not improper to refer to the reports of the Secretary of the Treasury, which show that the tax receipts from
its manufacture and sale in the United States under the act
above mentioned, during the nine years beginning with 1887,
amounted to over ten million dollars.
When we come to an inquiry as to the properties of oleomargarine and of what the substance is composed, we find
that answers to such inquiries are to be found. in the various

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

encyclopodias of the day, and in the official reports of the
Commissioner of Agriculture and in the legal reports of cases
actually decided in the courts of the country. In brief, every
intelligent man knows its general nature, and that it is prepared as an article of food, and is dealt in as such to a large
extent throughout this country and in Europe.
Upon reference to the Encyclopoedia Britannica it is said
that "pure oleomargarine butter is said to contain every element that enters into cream butter, and to keep pure much
longer; but there is the defect of not knowing when it is pure
or what injurious ingredients, or objectionable processes, may
be used in its manufacture by irresponsible parties." The article also says we append a comparative analysis of natural and
artificial butter, which shows that, when properly made, the latter is a wholesome and satisfactory substitute for the former."
There is cohtained in the 17th volume of the Encyclopoodia
Britannica an extract from a report by the secretary of the
British Embassy at Washington, in 1880, describing the
method of obtaining oleomargarine oil. This shows the article was then well known.
In -Exparte Scott and others, the Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia, (66 Fed. Rep. 45,) speaking by
Hughes, District Judge, said: "It is a fact of common knowledge that oleomargarine has -been. subjected to the severest
scientific scrutiny, and has been adopted by every leading
government in Europe, as well as America, for use by their
armaies and navies- Though not originally invented by us, it
is a gift of American enterprise and progressive invextion to
the world. It has become one of the conspicuous articles
of interstate commerce, and furnishes a large income to the
"-

general government annually.

.

.

.

It is entering rapidly

into domestic use, and the trade in oleomargarine has become
large and important. The attention of the national government has been attracted to it as a source of revenue. . .
Provincial prejudice against this now staple of commerce is
natural, but a city'of the size and prospects of Norfolk as a
world's entrepot ought not to be foremost in manifesting such
a prejudice."

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

In People v. .Yarx, 99 N. Y. 377, 381, which was a prose.cution under the New York statute (Chap. 202, Laws of 1884),
April 24, 1884, prohibiting the manufacture or sale of oleomargarine, the Court of. Appeals of New York held the act
unconstitutional. It appears from the opinion that on the
trial of that action " it was proved on the part of the defendant by distinguished chemists that oleomargarin6 was composed of the same elements as dairy butter. That the only
difference between them was that it contained a smaller proportion of fatty substance known as butterine. That this
butterine exists in dairy butter only in a small propbrtion.-from three to six. per cent. That it exists in no other substance than butter made from milk, and it is introduced to
oleomargarine butter by adding to. oleomargarifie stock some
milk, cream or butter, and churning, and when this is done
it has all the-elements of natural butter, but there must always
be a smaller percentage of butterine in the manufactured prod-,
uct than in the butter made from milk. The only effect of
the butterine is to give flavor to the butter, having hiothing
to do with its wholesomeness. That the oleaginous substances
in the oleomargarine are substantially identical with those
produced from milk or cream. Professor Chandler testified
that the only difference between- the two articles was that,
dairy butter had more butterine. That oleomargarine contained not over one per cent of that substance, while dairy
butter might contain four or five per cent, and that if four or
fi.ve per cent of butterine were added to the oleomargarine,
there would be no difference; it would be butter; irrespective
of the sources, they would be the same substances. According
to the testimony *of 'Professor Morton, whose statement was
not controverted or questioned, oleomargarine, so far from
being an article devised for purposes of deception iii trade,
was devised in i872 or 1873 by an eminent French scientist,
who had been employed by the French government to devise
a substitute for butter." This extract from the opinion in
the New York case, speaking of the testimony given before
the trial judge, is iot quoted for the purpose of proving the
facts therein stated, but for the purpose of-showing that as

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

long ago as the time when that case was decided-June, 1885
- the article was then well known as an article of food, and
manufactured as a substitute for butter, and we may fhotice
*from some of the histories of the article the fact (which is
stated in the opinion) that it'was first devised as long ago as
1872 or 1873 by a French gentleman who had been employed
by the French government to devise a substitute. for butter.
The article is a subject of export, and is largely used in foreign countries. 'Upon all these facts we think it apparent
that oleomargarine has become a proper subject of commerce
among the States and with foreign nations.
The geu.ral rule to be deduced from the decisions'of this
court is that a lawful article of commerce cannot be wholly
-excluded from importation into a State from another State
whiere it was manufactured or grown. A State has power to
regulate the introduction of any article, including mfood product, so as to insure purity of the article imported, but such
police power does not include the total exclusion even of an
article of food.
*In -Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, it was held that an
inspection law'relating to an article of food was not a rightful exercise of the police power of the State if the inspection
prescribed were of such a character or if it were burdened
with such conditions as would wholly prevent the introduction
of the. sound article from other States. This was held in
relation to the slaughter of animals whose meat was to be
sold -as food in the State passing the so-c'l
ilispection law.
The principle was affirmed in B.rimmer v. Ileman, 138 U. S.
78; and in Scott v..Donald, 165 U. S. 58, 97.
Is the rule altered in a case where the inspection or analysis
of the article to be imported is somewhat difficult and burdensome? Can th6 pure and healthy food product be totally
excluded on that account? N o case has gone to that extent in
this court. The nearest approach to it was the case of Peirce
v. Yew Hampshire, 5 How. 504, involving the importation of
intoxicating liquors. But in Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.100,
125, the New Hampshire case was overruled, and it was stated
by the present Chief Justice, in speaking for the court, that

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

';
whatever our individual views may be as to the deleterious
or dangerous qualities of particular articles, we cannot hold
that any articles -which Congress recognizes as subjects of
interstate commerce are not such, or that whatever are thus
recognized can be controlled .by staie laws amounting to
regulations while they retain that character; although, at the
same time; if directly dangerous in themselves, the State may
take appropriate measures to guard against injury before it
obtains complete jurisdiction over them. To concede to a
State the power to exclude, directly or indirectly, articles so
situated, without Congressional permission, is to concede to a
majority of the people of a State, represented in the state
legislature, the power to regulate commercial intercourse between the States by determining what shall be its subjects,
when that power was distinctly granted to be exercised by
the people of the United States represented in Congress, and
its. possession by the latter was considered essential to that
more perfect union which the Constitution was adopted to
create."
To the same effect we think is the case of Railroad Company
v. Huen, 95 U. S.465, 469, in which it was said that "whatever may be the power of a State over commerce that is,
completely internal, it can no more prohibit or regulate that
which is interstate than it can that which is with foreign
nations." The court, therefore, while conceding the right of
the State to enact reasonable inspection laws to 15revent the
importation of diseased cattle, held the law of Missouri there
under consideration to be invalid, because it prohibited absolutely the introduction of Texas cattle during the time named
in the act, even though they were perfectly healthy and sound.
The court said that a State could not, under the cover of
exerting its police powers, substantially prohibit or burden
either foreign or interstate commerce. Reasonable and appropriate laws for the inspection of articles, including food
products, were admitted to be valid, but absolute prohibition
of an unadulterated, healthy and pure article has never been
permitted as a remedy against the importation of that which
was adulterated and therefore unhealthy or impure.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

We do not think the fact that the article is subject to be
adulterated by dishonest persons, in the course Pf its manufacture with other substances, which it is claimed may in
*some instances become deleterious to health, creates the right
in any State through its legislature to forbid the introduction
of the unadulterated article into the State. The fact that
the article is liable to adulteration in the course of manufacture, and that the articles with which it may be mixed may
possibly and under some circumstances be deleterious to the
health of those who consume it, is known to us by means of
various references to the subject in books and encyclopsedias,
"but there was no affirmative evidence offered on the trial to
prove the fact. From these sources of information it may
be admitted that oleomargarine in the course of its manufacture may sonetimes be adulterated by dishonest manufactirers with articles that possibly may become .injurious to
health. Conceding the fact, we yet deny the right of a State
to absolutely prohibit -the introduction within its borders of
an article of commerce, which is not adulterated and which in
its pure state is healthful, simply because such an article in
'the course of its manufacture may be adulterated by dishonest
manufacturers for purposes of fraud or illegal gains. 'The bad
article may be prohibited, but not the pure and healthy one.
In the execution of its police powers we admit the right of
the State to enact such legislation as it may deem proper, even
in regard to articles of interstate commerce, for the purpose
of preventing fraud or deception in the sale of any commodity
and to the extent that it may be fairly necessary to prevent
the introduction or sale of an adulterated article within the
limits of the State. But in carrying out its purposes the State
cannot absolutely prohibit the introduction within the State
'of an article of commerce like pure oleomargarine. It has
ceased to be what counsel for the Commonwealth has termed
it, a newly discovered food product. An article that has
been openly manufactured for nearly a quarter of a century,
where the ingredients of the pure article are perfectly well
known and have been known for a. number .of years, and
where the general process of 'manufacture has been known

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

for an equal period, cannot truthfully be said to be a newly
discovered product within the proper meaning of the term as
here used. The time when a newly discovered article ceases
to be such cannot always be definitely stated, but all will admit that there does come a period when the article cannot
be so described. Iii this particular case we have no difficulty
in holding that oleomargarine has so far ceased to be a.newly
discovered article as that its nature, mode of manufacture,
ingredients and effect upon the health are and have been for
many years as well known as almost any article of food in
daily use. Therefore if we admit that a newly. discovered
article of food might be wholly prohibited from being introduced within the limits of a State, while its properties,
whether healthful or not, were still unknown, or in regard
to which there might still be doubt, yet this is not the case
with oleomargarine. If properly and honestly manufactured
it is conceded to be a healthful and nutritious article of food.
The fact that it may be adulterated does not afford a foundation to absolutely prohibit its- introduction into the State.
Although the adulterated article may possibly in some cases
be injurious to the health of the public, yet that does not
furnish a justification for an. absolute prohibition. A law
which does thus prohibit the introduction of an article like
oleomargarine within the State is not a law which regulates
or restricts the sale of articles deemed injurious to the health
of the community, but is one which prevents the introduction
of a perfectly healthfal commodity merely for the purpose of
in that way more easily preventing an adulterated and possibly injurious article from being introduced. We do not think
this is a fair exercise of legislative discretion when applied to
the article in question.
It is claimed, however, that the very statute under consideration has heretofore been held valid by this court in
the case of Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678. That
case did not involve rights arising under the commerce clausQ
of the Federal Constitution. The article was manufactured
and sold within the State, and the question was one as to
the police power of the State acting upon a subject always

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

Within its jurisdiction. The plaintiff in error was convicted
of selling within the Commonwealth two cases containing five
pounds each of an article of food designed to take the place
*of butter, the sale having taken place in the city of Harrisburg, and it was part of a quantity manufactured in and, as
alleged, in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth.
The plaintiff in error claimed that the statute under which
his conviction was had was a violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. This
court held that the'statute did not violate any provision of
that Amendment, and therefore held that the conviction was
I
valid.
The Powell case did not and could not involve the rights of
an importer under the commerce clause. The right of a State
to enact laws in relation to the administration of its internal'
affairs is one thing, and the right of a state to prevent the introduction within its limits of an article of commerce is another
and a totally different thing. Legislation which has its effect
wholly within the State and upon products manufactured and
sold therein might be held valid as not in violation of any provision of the Federal Constitution, when at the same time legislation directed towArds prohibiting the importation within
the State of the same article manufactured outside of its limits
might be regarded as illegal because in violation of the rights
of citizens of other States arising under the commerce clause
of that instrument.
Referring what is said in the opinion in Powell's case to the
facts upon which the case arose, and in regard to which the
opinion was based and the case decided, there is nothing whatever inconsistent with that opinion in holding, as we do here,
tlat oleomargarine is a legitimate subject of commerce among
the States, and that no State has a right to totally prohibit its
in'troduction in its pure condition from without the State under
any exer-ise of its police power. The legislature of the State
has the power in many cases to determine as a matter of state
policy .whether to permit the manufacture and sale of articles
within the State or-to entirely forbid such manufacture and
sale, so long as the legislation is confined to the manufacture

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

and the sale within the State. Those are questions -of public
policy which, as was said in the case of Powell, belong to the
legislative department to determine; but the legislative policy
does not extend so far as to embrace the right to absolutely
prohibit the introduction within the limits of the State of an
article like oleomargarine, properly and honestly manufactured.
The Powell.case was, in the opinion of the court, governed
in its important aspect by that of .Mugler v. Jfansa, 123 U. S.
623, in which case it was said that it did not involve any
question. arising under the commerce clause of the Con~titution
of the United States. The last cited .case was followed in
.idd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1.
Nor is the question determined adyersely to this view in the
case of Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 462. The statute in
that case prevented the sale of this substance in imitation
of yellow butter produced from pure unadulterated milk'or
cream of the same, and the statute contained a proviso that
nothing therein should be "construed to prohibit the manufacture or sale of oleomargarine in a separate or distinct form
and in such manner as will advise the consumer of its real
character, free from coloration or ingredients that cause it to
look like butter." This court held -that a conviction under
that statute for having sold at.article known as oleo'margarine,
not produced from unadulterated milk or cream,- but manufactured in imitation of yellow butter produced from pure
u.nadulteratedmilk or cream, was valid. Attention was called
in the opinioh to the fact that the statute did not prohibit
the manufacture or sale of all oleomargarine, but only such as
was colored in imitation of yellow butter produced from unadulterated milk or cream of such milk. If free from coloration or ingredient that caused it to look like butter, the right
to sell it in a separate and distinct form and in such manner
as would advise the consumer of the real character was neither
restricted nor prohibited. The court held that under the
statute the party was only forbidden to practice in such
matters a fraud upon the general public; that the statute seeks
to suppress false pretences and to promote*fair dealing in the
VOL CLXXI-2

18

OCTOBER TERVf, 1897.
Opinion of the. Court.

sale of an article of food, and that it compels the sale of oleomargarine for what it really is by preventing its sale for what
it is not; that the term "commerce among the States" did
not mean a reco hition of a right to practise a fraud upon the
public in the sale of an article even if it had become the subject of trade in different pLrts of the country. It was said
that the Constitution of the United States did not take from
the States the power of preventing deception and fraud in the
sale within their'respective limit*s of articles in whatever State
manufactured, and that that instrument did not secure to any
one the privilege of committing a wrong against society.
It will thus be seen, that the 6ase was based entirely upon
the theory bf the right of a State to prevent deception and
-fraud in the sale of any article, and that it was the fraud and
deception contained in selling the article for what it was not,
and in selling it so that it should appear to be another and a
different article,'that this right "ofthe State was iipheld. The
question of the right to totally prohibit the introduction from
another State of the pure article did not arise, and, of course,
was not passed upon. The act of Congress, above cited, was
referred to by the counsel for the appellant in the Plumley
case as furnishing a full system of legislation upon the'subject,
and he claimed that it excluded any legislation on the same
subject by the State, but it was held that there was no ground
to suppose that Congress intended by that enactment to interfere with the exercise by the States of any authority they
could rightfully exercise over the sal6 within their respective
limits'of the article defined as oleomargarine, and, as section
3243 'of the Revised Statutes was referred to in the act, it was
held that the section was incorporated in the act for the purpose of making it clear that Congress did not intend to
restrict the power 6f the State's over the subject of the manufacture and sale of oleomargarine wit'iin their respective
limits.
The taxes prescribed by that act 'Were held to have been
imposed for hational purposes, and their imposition did not
give authorit)yto those who paid them to engage in the manufacure or'sale of oleomargarine within any State which law-

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

fully forbade such manufacture or sale, or to .disregard any
regulations which a State might lawfully prescribe in reference to that article. It was also held that the act of Congress
was not intended as a regulation of commerce among the
States.
By the reference which we have already made to this statute
we have not intended to claim that it was a regulation of commerce among the States further than the provisions of the act
distinctly applied to its manufacture and sale. We refer to it
for the purpose of showing that the article itself was therein
recognized as a proper and lawful subject of commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States under such lawful regulations as the State'might choose to impose. We
think that what .Congress thus taxes and recognizes as a
proper subject of commerce cannot be totally excluded from
any particular State simply because the State may choose to
decide that for the purpose of preventing the importation of
an impure or adulterated article it will not permit the introduction of the pure and unadulterated article within its borders upon any terms whatever.
We are therefore of opinion that the first ground for upholding the conviction in these cases cannot be sustained.
Nor do we think the conviction can be sustained upon the
ground taken in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania.
The question in regard to packing the oleomargarine first
arose in the case of Commonwealth v. Schollenberger, 156
Penn. St. 201. The defendant in that case was an agent of a
.non-resident manufacturer of oleomargarine, and he sold at
his store in Pennsylvania a package of the article, weighing
eighty pounds, made and stamped and branded in Rhode
Island for use as an article of food. It was held that the case
did not show that the sales were made in the original package
of commerce. And it was said that a jury would be justified
in finding that the mode of putting up the package was not
adapted to meet the requirements of actual interstate commerce, but the requirements of an unlawful interstate retail
trade. But the special verdict in this case shows what the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

court said was.lacking in the case just cited, for it appears in
the verdict that the package in which the oleomargarine was
sold was an original package, as required by the act of Congress, and was of such " form, size and weight as is used by
producers or shippers for the. purpose of securing both con-'
venience in handling and security in transport.ation of merchandise between dealers in the 6rdinary course of actual
commerce, aihd the said form, size and weight were adopted
in goodfaith, and not for the purpose of evading the laws of
the Common~vealth of Pennsylvania, said package being one
of a number of si hilar packages forming one consignment
shipped by the said company to the said defendant." It also
appears from the special verdict that the defendant was
engaged in business in th6 city of Philadelphia as a wholesale
dealer in oleomargarine as agent for the manufacturer ; that
he had paid the special tax upon the business as a wholesale
(iealer, and had other*.ise complied with all the requirements
of the act of Congress, and the article was' openly sold as oleomargarine, and that fact was made known to the purchaser,
and he understood that he was buying oleomargarine, and as
soon as the tub was purchased it was removed unbroken from
-the place of. sale by the purchaser thereof.
Upon the facts found in the special verdict, it is said in the
opinion of the court below, 170 Penn. St. 291, that "it is very
clear that this sale was a violation of our 'statute.. The con-.
viction was eminently proper, therefore, and should be sustained, unlegs the sale can be justified as one made of an
original package within the proper meaning of that' phrase.
The non-residence of the manufacturer does not play any important part in this case, for he comes into this State to
establish a store for the sale of his goods, pays the license
exacted by the revenue laws,'and puts his agent in charge of
the -sale of his goods from his store, not to the trade, but to
customers. We have, therefore, a Pennsylvania store selling
its stock of goods to its customers for their consumption from
its own shelves'; and unless. these goods are in such original
packages as the laws. of the United States must protect, the
sale is clearly punishable under our statute.

.

.

.

The

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

question is whether a package intended and used for the
supply of the retail trade is an ' original package' within the
protection of the interstate commerce cases."
What are the rights of one engaged in interstate commerce
in regard to the introduction of a lawful article of commerce
into a State? Those rights have been declared by various
decisions of this court, some of them made at a very early
date, and coming down to the present time.
In the leading case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 193,
it was said by Marshall, Chief Justice, that the commerce
clause extends to every species of commercial intercourse
among the geveral States, and that it does not stop at the external boundary of a State, and that this power to regulate
included the power to prescribe the rule'by which commerce
is to be governed, and it was held that navigation was included within that power.
In Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, it was stated that
this power to regulate commerce could not be stopped at the
external boundary of a State, but must enter its interior, and
that if the power reached the interior of the State and might
be there exercised, it must be calable of authorizing the sale
of those articles which it introdudes. It was said that "sale
is the object of importation and is'an essential ingredient of
that intercourse of which importation constitutes a part. It
is as essential an ingredient, as indispensable to the. existence
of the entire thing, then, as importation itself.' It must- be.
considered as a component part of the power to regulate'
commerce."
Years after the decision of the last case and after many
other decisions had been made upon the general subject of
the commerce clause, this court in Bowman v. Chicago c&
Northwestern Railway, 125 U. S. 465, held that the State
could not, for the purpose of protecting its people against the
evils of intemperance, pass an act which regulated commerce
by forbidding. any common carrier to bring intoxicating liquors into the State from another State or Territory, excepting
upon conditions mentioned in the act. Such act was held to
be repugnant to the Constitution of the United States as af-

OCTOBER TERM, .1897..
Opinion of the Court.

fecting interstate commerce in an essential and vital part.
But whether the right t6 transport an article of commerce
from one State to another included by necessary implication
the right of the consignee to sell it in unbroken packages at
the place where' the transportation terminated was not decided. In Brown v. Z]faryland, it was .said that. the right bf
transportation did include 'the right to sell,. as to foreign .commerce, and in the course of his opinion 'Chief Justice Marshall
said that the conclusion would be the same in the case of coinmerce among the States; but as it -was not necessary to express. any opinion upon thd point, it was simply held in the
Bowman case that the power to regulate. or forbid the sale of
a commodity after it had been brought into a State does not
carry with it the right and power to prevent its introduction.
by transportation from another State.
The case of Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S..100, 124, went a
step further ihan .the Bowman 'case, and held that the importer had the right to sell in a State into which he brought
the article from anb'ther State in the original packages or kegs,
unbroken and unopened, notwithstanding a statute of the
State prohibiting the sale.of such articles except for the purposes thereinnamed and under a license from the State.. Such
a statute was held to be unconstitutional as repugnant to the
clause of the Constitution granting power to Congress to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the severial.
States'. Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, in speaking for the court,
said : "Under our decision ii Bowman v. Chicago & lfforthwestern Railway, they had the right'to import this beer into
that State, and in the view which we have expressed, they
had the right to sell it, by which act alone it would become
mingled in the common mass of property within the State.
Up to that point of time, we hold that-in the absence of -Congressional permission to do, so, the State had no power to
interfere, by seizure or any other-action, in prohibition of importation and sale by the -foreign or non-resident importer."
The right of the State to prohibit the sale in the original
package was denied in the absence of any law of Congress
upon the subject permitting the State to prohibit such sale.

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

There is no such law of Congress relating to articles like oleomargarine. Such articles ate therefore in like condition as
were the liquors in the cases above cited.
Subsequent to the decision in the Leisy case and on the 8th
of August, 1890, c. 728, 26 Stat. 313, Congress passed an .act
commonly known as the Wilson act, which provided that
upon the arrival in any State or Territory of the intoxicating
liquors transported therein they should be subject to the
operation and effect of the laws of the State or Territory
enacted in the exercise of its police power to the same extent
and in the same manner as though such liquors had been produced in sudh State or Territory, and that they should not be
exempt therefrom by reason of being introduced theiein in
original packages- or otherwise. This was held to be a valid
and constitutional exercise of the power conferred upon Congress. l re 1 akrer, Petitioner, 140, U. S. 545. In the
absence of Congressional legislation, therefore, the right to
import a lawful article of coimmerce from one State to another continues until a sale in the original package in which
the article was introduced into the State.
The case of'Ernert v. .issouri, 156 U. S. 296, involved the
validity of a statute of Missouri providing that peddlers of
goods, going from plac- to place within the State to sell them,
should take out and pay for licenses. The statute was held
not to violate the commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States because it made no discrimination between
residents or products of the State and those of other States.
The conviction of the plaintiff in error for a violation of the
statute was upheld, although he was an agent of a corporation which manufactured the property in another State and
sent it to him to sell as its agent. It was held to be within
the police power of the State to 'regulate the. occupation of
itinerant peddlers and to compel them to obtain licenses to
practise their trade, and such power had been exerted from
the earliest times. The remark of Chief Justice Marshall in
.Brownz v. .3-aryland,supra, was quoted, that -"the right of
sale may very well be annexed to importation, without annexing to it also the privilege of using the officers licensed by the

OCTOBER TERIM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

State to make sales in a peculiar way." (Page 313.) It was
the privilege of selling in a peculiar way, As a peddler, which
was licensed in the Emert case, and such a person, it was
therein decided, could properly 'be made to pay a license
for selling in that way an article manufactured in another
State and sent into Missouri, as well as for selling in the same
way articles manufactured in Missouri, so long as there was
no discrimination between the two-classes of goods.
The nEmert case does not overrule or affect the cases above
cited as to the right to sell.
We are not aware of any such distinction as is attempted to
be drawn by the court below in these cases between a sale at
wholesale to individuals engaged in the wholesale trade or
one at retail to the consumer. How small may be a'n original
package it is not necessary to here determine. We do say
that a sale of a ten pound package of oleomftrgarine, manufactured, packed, marked, imported and sold under the circumstances set forth in detail in the special verdict, was a
valid sale, although to a person who was himself a consumer.
We do not say or intimate that this right of sale extended
beyond the first sale by the importer after its arrival within
the State.
Waring v. The 3ayor, 8 Wall, 110, 122. The
importer had the right to sell not only personally, but he had
the right to employ an agent to sell for him. Otherwise his
right to sell would be substantially valueless, for it cannot be.
supposed that he would be personally engage.d in the sale of
every original 'package sent to the different States in the
Union. Having the right to sell through his agent, a sale
-thus effected is valid.
The right of the. importer to sell cannot depend upon
Whether the original .package is suitable for retail trade or
not. His right to sell is the same, whether to consumers or
to wholesale dealers in the article, provided he sells them in
original packages. This does not interfere with the acknowledged right of the State to use such means as may be necessary to prevent the introduction of an adulterated article, and
for that purpose -to inspect and test the article' introduced,
pr6vided the state laW does really inspect and does not sub-

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVA rL
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlao, &T.

stantially prohibit the introduction of the pure article and
thereby interfere with interstate commerce. It cannot for
th.e purpose of preventing the introduction of an impure or
adulterated article absolutely prohibit the introduction of that
which is pure .and wholesome. The act of the legislature of
Pennsylvania, under consideration, to the extent that it prohibits the introduction of oleomargarine from another State
and its sale in the original package, as described in the special
verdict, is invalid.
The judgments are therefore reversed and the' cases remanded to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvaniaforfurther
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JusTice. GRAY, with whom concurred Mn. JusTice HARLAN, dissenting.
Mr. Justice Hai'lan and myself cannot concur in this judgment, and will state, as briefly as may be, some of the
grounds of our dissent. The question at issue' appears to us
to be so completely covered by two or three recent judgments
'of this court, as to make it unnecessary to cite other authorities.
As has been said by this court, speaking by the present
Chief Justice, "The power of the State to impose restraints
and burdens upon persons and property, in conservation and'
promotion of the public health, good order and prosperity, is
a power originally and always belonging to the States, not
surrendered by them to the General Government, nor directly
restrained by the Constitution of the United States, and
essentially exclusive. And this court has uniformly recognized state legislation, legitimately for police purposes, as not,
in the sense of the Constitution, necessarily infringing upon
any right which has been confided, expressly or by implication, to the National Government." Rahrer's case, 140 U. S.
545, 554.
The statute of Pennsylvania of May 21, 1885, under which
the plaintiffs in error were indicted and convictedi for selling
in Pennsylvania oleomargarine in the original .packages in

OCTOBER TERM, 1897-.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, harlan, JJ.

which it had been sent to them from other States, provides
that "no person, firm, or corporate body shall manufacture out
of any oleaginous substance or any compound of the sarpe,
other than that produced from unadulterated milk or of
cream from the same, any article designed to take the place
of butter or cheese produced from pure unadulterated milk
or cream from -the same, or, of any imitation or adulterated.
butter or cheese,, nor shall sell or offer for sale, or have in his,
her or their possession with intent to sell the same, as an
article of food." Penn. Stat. 1885, c.,.25.
In Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, the defendant
was indicted, Under this very statute,' for selling, and for having in his possession with intent to sell, oleomargarine manufactured in Pennsylvania before. the passage of the statute;
and, at the trial, in order t6 show that the'statute was not a
lawful exercise of the police power of the State, offered to
prove that the articles which he sold, and those which he had
in his possession for sale, were, in -fapt, wholesome and nutritious, and were part of a large .quantity manufactured by him
before the passage of the statute, by. the use of land, buildings and. machinery, purchased by him at great expense for
carrying on this business, and the value of which would be
destroyed if he were prevented from continuing it. The
evidence offered was excluded, and the defendant was convicted; and his conviction was affirmed by the Supreme.
Court of Pennsylvania, and by this court upon' writ of error.
This court, in its opinion upholding this statute as a constitutional and valid exercise of the police power of the State,
after mentioning the defendant's offer to prove that the
articles which he sold or had in his possession, for sale were
in fact wholesome and nutritious, proceeded as follows . I It
is 6ntirely consistent with that offer, that many, indeed, that
most kinds of oleomargarine butter in the market- contain
ingredients that are or may become injurious to health. The
court cannot say, from anything of which it may take judicial cognizance, that such is not the fact. Under the circumstances disclosed in the record, and in obedience to settled
rules of constitutional construction, it must be assumed that

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVAN-IA.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, JJ.

"Whether the manufacture of oleosuch is the fact."
margarine, or imitation butter, of the kind described in the
statute, is, or may be, conducted in such a way, or with such
skill and secrecy, as to baffle ordinary inspection, or whether
it involves such danger to the public health as to require, for
the protection of the people, the entire suppression of the
business, rather than its regulation in such manner as to
permit the manufacture and sale of articles of that class that
do not contain noxious ingredients, are questions of fact and
of public policy, which belong to the legislative department
to determine. And as it does not appear upon the face of the
statute,.or from any facts of which the court must take judi•cial cognizance, that it infringes rights secured by the fundamental law, the legislative determination of those questions
is conclusive upon the- courts. It is not a part of their functions to conduct investigations of facts entering into questions
of public policy merely, .andto sustain or frustrate the legislative will, embpdied in.statutes, as they may happen to approve or, disapprove its determination of such questions."
"The legislature of Pennsylvania, upon the fullest investigatiQn, as we must conclusively presume, and upon reasonable
grounds, as must be assumed from the record, has determined
that the prohibition of the. sale, or offering for sale, or having
in possession to sell, for purposes of food, of any article manufactured out of oleaginous substances or compounds, other
than those produced from unadulterated milk or cream from
unadulterated milk, to take the place of butter produced from
unadulterated milk or cream from unadulterated milk, will
promote the public health, and prevent frauds in the iale of
such articles." 127 U. S. 684-686.
Th'at decision appears to us to establish that the courts
cannot take judicial cognizance, without proof, either that
oleomargarine is wholesome, or that it is unwholesome; and
we are unable to perceive how judicial cognizance of such a
fact can be acquired by referring to the various opinions
which have found expression in scientific publications, or in
testimony given in cases before other courts and between.
other parties.

OCTOBER TERMTT, 1897.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, JJ.

Evidence that the articles sold were wholeiome and nutritious having been excluded as immaterial when offered in
defende in Powell's case, it necessarily follows that the Commonwealth in the case at bar had no occasion to offer evidence
to prove the contrary.
The decision in Powell's case conclusively establishes that
the statute in question is a constitutional exercise of the police
power of the State, unless it can be considered as affected by
the power to regulate commerce, as granted to or exercised
by Congress under the Constitution of the United States.
,,
The act of Congress of August 2, 1886, c. 840, imposing
internal revenue taxes upon mapufacturers and sellers of
oleomargarine, and defining what shall be considered as
oleomargarine for the purposes of that act, expressly provides,
in § 3, that section 3243 of the Revised Statutes, so far as
applicable, shall apply to such taxes and persons. 24 Stat.
209. By section 3243 of the Revised Statutes, "the payment of any tax imposed by the internal revenue laws for
carrying on any trade or business shall not be held to exempt
any person from any penalty or punishment provided by thelaws of any State for carrying on the same within such
State, or in any manner to authorize -the commencement or
continuance of such trade or business contrary to the laws of
such State, or in places prohibited by municipal law; nor
shall the payment of any such tax be held to prohibit any
State from placing a duty or tax on the same trade or business, for state or other purposes."
As was said by this court in Plumley v. .Massachusetts,155
U. S. 461, "It is manifest that this section was incorporated
into the act of August 2, 1886, to make it clear that Congress
had no purpose to restrict the power of the States over the
subject of the manufacture.,and sale of oleomargarine within
their respective limits. The taxes prescribed by that act
were imposed for national purposes, and their imposition did
not give authority to those Who paid them to engage in the
manufacture or sale of oleomargarine in any State which
lawfully forbade such manufacture or sale, or to disregard
any regulations which a State might lawfully prescribe in

SCHOLLENBERGER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, Harlan, JJ.

reference to that article. Nor was the act of Congress relating to oleomargarine intended as a regulation of commerce
among the States. Its provisions do not have special application to the transfer of oleomargarine from one State of the
Union to another. They relieve the manufacturer or seller,
if he conforms to the regulations prescribed by Congress, or
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue under the authority
conferred upon him in that regard, from penalty or punishment, so far as the General Government is concerned; but
they do not interfere with the exercise by the States of any
authority they possess of preventing deception or fraud in
the sales of property within -their respective limits." 155
U. S. 466, 467. "If there be any subject over which it would
seem the States ought to have plenary control, and the power
to legislate in respect to which it ought not to be supposed
was intended to be surrendered to the General Government,
it is the protection of the people against fraud and deception
in the sale of food products. Such legislation may, indeed,
indirectly or incidentally affect trade in such products transported from one State to another State. But that circumstance does not show that laws of the character alluded to
are inconsistent with the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the States." 155 U. S. 472.
In Plumley's Case, it was accordingly adjudged by this
court, affirming the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court
of Massachusetts, that a statute of Massachusetts, imposing a
penalty on the manufacture, sale, offering for sale, or having
in possession with intent to sell, "any article or compound,
made wholly or partly out of any fat, oil or oleaginous substance, or compound thereof, not produced from unadulterated milk or cream from the same, which shall be in imitation
of yellow butter produced from pure unadulterated milk or
cream from the same," was constitutional and valid, as applied to sales in Massachusetts of oleomargarine made in
another State, artificially colored so as to look like yellov
butter, and imported in the packages in which it was sold.
The necessary result of the decisions in Powell's case and in
Plumley's case, and of the reasoning upon which those deci-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.,

sions were founded, and by which alone they can be justified,
appears to us to be that each State may, in the exercise of its
police power, without violating the provisions of the Constitution and laws of the United States concerning interstate
commerce, make such regulations relating to all sales of
oleomargarine within the State, even in original packages
brought frbm another State, as the legislature of the State
may deem necessary to protect the people from being induced
to purchase articles, either not fit for food, or differing in nature from what they purport to be; that the questions of danger to health, and of likelihood of fraud or deception, and of
the preventive measures required .for the protection of the
people, are questions of fact and of public policy, the deterruination of which belongs to'the legislative department, and
not to the judiciary; and that, if the legislature is satisfied
that oleoinargarine is unwholesome, or that, in the tubs, pots
or packages in which it is comnionly offered for sale, it looks
so like butter, that the only way to protect the people against
injury to health, in the one case, or against fraud or deception,.
in the other, is to absolutely prohibit its sale, it is within the
constitutional power of the legislature to do so.

COLLINS v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ,THE STATE OF NEW HA.IPSHIRE.
lXo. IT. Argued March 23, 24, 19S2.
-Decided

MaV 23, 1898.

Following the deeiion, in Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, ante, 1, the court
holds that the statute of New Hampshire prohibiting the sale of oleomargarine as a substitute for Iutter, unless it is of a pink color, is
invalid, as being, in necessary effect, prbhibitory.

T.HE case is stated in the opinion. It was argued with
Schollenberger v. .Pennsylvania, ante, 1, by the same counsel
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William D. GUiti
ie for plaintiff inerrorr.

. Richard

