OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.,

Our conclusion is that we have no appellate jurisdiction of
capital cases from the United States court for the Northern
District of the Indian Territory, and that such appellate jurisdiction is vested exclusively in the United States Court of
Appeals in the Indian Territory.
The motion is allowed and the writs of error in these
cases are
__________Disi

sed.

NAEGLIN v. DiE CORDOBA..
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 85. Argued October 18, 189S.-Decided October 24, 1898.
An order signed in vacation by the several members of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of New Mexico cannot be considered an order of the
court.
The statutes of New Mexi.co provide that, in the absence of legitimate children, illegitimate children inherit.
A natural guardian has no power to release the claim of a ward to an inheritance without the sanction of some tribunal.

ON March 29, 1886, the appellees, Doloritas Martin de
Cordoba et al., filed their bill in the district court of the
county of Mfora, fourth judicial district, Territory of New
Mlexico, 'to establish their rights as the children and heirs of
one Frederick Metzger. After answer the case was referred
to a master, who reported findings of fact and conclusions of
law in favor of the plaintiffs. Upon a hearing in the district
court a decree was entered adversely to the conclusions of .the
master and for the defendants. On appeal to the Supreme
Court of the Territory that decree-was on August 24, 1895,
reversed, and one entered remanding the case to the district
court, with instructions to enter a-decree in conformity with
the findings and conclusions of the master. Thereupon the
defendants appealed to this court.
At the time of entering the decree, and also of overruling

1NAEGLIN v. DE CORDOBA.
Statement of the Case.

a petition for rehearing, no statement of facts was prepared
by the Supreme Court, and no other determination of the
facts than such as appears from the direction to enter a
decree in conformity with the findings and recommendations
of the master. But after the Supreme Court had adjourned,
an application was made to have the findings of fact made by
the master incorporated into the record as a statement and
finding of facts by that court, for the purpose of an appeal,
and upon that application the following order was entered:
"And now the foregoing statement and finding as to the
facts"proven and egtablished by the evidence in each of said
causes are ordered to be incorporated in the record of said
Supreme Court as part thereof as fully as we may be thereunto empowered, the July term of the Supreme Court having
been adjoutned on the 26th day of September, A.D. 1896, and
this order made and signed by each of the judges while in
his district respectively.
THomAs SavHi, Chief Justice.
:NEEDIIAm -0.

COLLImB,

Associate Justice, Supreme Court of -New Mexico.
"Signed at Silver City, in the third judicial district.
GMEoN D. BANTZ,
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of New

fexico and Presiding Judge of the Third
Judicial District Court.
"Signed at Santa. F6, N. M., in the first judicial district.

N. B.

LAUGHLIN,

Associate Justice of the Supreme Court and
Judge of the FirstJudicialDistrict."
It appears from the bill, answer and findings that Frederick
Xfetzger, though -an unmarried man, was" the father of several
children by different women, hnd this suit is one between these
several illegitimate children to determine their respective fights
to share in his estate. The counsel for appellants says in his
brief: "The bill of complaint and the testimony present for
determination of the court two questions: First, what estate

OCTOBER TER.U, 1898.
Opinioh of the Court.

and property did Metzger own at the time of his death? and,
second, who is entitled to that estate "
Xtr. Harvey Spalding for appellants.
:No appearance for appellees.
:Mi. JusTicE BRawER delivered the opinion of the court.

1No question is made in this .record as to the admission or
exclusion of testimony. There being no jury the case comes
here on appeal, and the only question we can consider is
whether the findings of fact sustain the decree. Act of April
7, 1874, c. 80, 18 Stat. 27; Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610;
Gannon v. Pratt,99 U. S. 619; .AFeslin, v. Fells, 104 U. S.
428; HJecht v. Boughton, 105 U. S. 235, 236; Gray v. Bowe,
108 U. S. 12 ; Eilera v. Boatman, 111 U. S. 356; Zeckendorf
v. JohnsoW, 123 U. S. 617; Sturr v. :eck, 133 .U. S. 541;
Mammoth Min. Co. v. Salt Lake Foundry & .Machine Co., 151"
U. S. 447.
The order signed in vacation by the several ihembers of the
Supreme Court cannot be considered an order of the court.
Assuming, however, for the purposes of this case, that, in view
of the general language in the opinion of the cburt, we may
take the findings of the master as its statement of facts, we
observe that no doubtful question of law is presented for our
determination. The master finds .that Metzger was the father
of the appellees, ahd that he owned certain property. These
are questions of fact, resting upon testimony, concluded, so
far as this court is concerned, by the findings, and into which
it is not our privilege to enter.
While under the common law illegitimate children.did not
inherit from their father, the statutes of New Mexico intro.duced a new rule-of inheritande (Comp. Laws, New Mexico,
1884, tit. 20, c. 4,. see. 1435, p. 680): "Natural children, in the
absence of legitimate, are heirs to their father's estate, in
preference to the ascendants, and are direct heirs to the
mother if she die intestate." In other words; under this stat-

PIERCE v. SOMERSET RAILWAY.
Counsel for Parties.

ute, there being no legitimate children, illegitimate children
inherit.
It appears that on March 19, 1875, and while MIetzger was
living, the mother of these plaintiffs, then minors, in her own
right and for the minors, receipted and relinquished all claims
against him. Without stopping to consider what was meant
by that release, and giving to it all the scope which its language may suggest, we remark that a natural guardian has
no power to release the claim of a ward to an inheritance
without the sanction of some tribunal. Woerner's American
Law of Guardianship, p. 185, and following.
The decree is
Affirmed.
PIERCE v. SOMERSET RAILWAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF MAINE.
No. 12. Argued October 11, 12, 189.-Decded October 31, 1898.
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, affirmed and followed to the points:
(1) That to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state
court, it must appear affirmatively, not only that a Federal question was presented for decision by the state court, but that its
decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that
it was decided adversely to the party claiming a right under the
Federal laws or Constitution, or that the judgment, as rendered,
could not have been given without deciding it;
(2) That where the record discloses that, if a question has been raised
and decided adversely to a party claiming the benefit of a provision of the Constitution or laws of the United States, another
question, not Federal, has been also raised and decided against
such party, and the decision of the latter question is sufficient,
notwithstanding the Federal question, to sustain the judgment,
this court will not review the judgment.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Hr. D. D. Stewart for plaintiffs in error.
was with him on the brief.

Mr. E. B. Cleaves

3&. Edmund F. IFebb and -Mr. Josiah H. Drummond for
TOL. CLXXI-41

