OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

either view there was a fatal want of power in the departmental treasurer to make the sale, and it is not asserted in
the petition, nor was any evidence introduced to show that
his actibn was participated in or ratified by the governor, or
by the national government in any manner. And this is not
a case in which the sale and grant can be treated as validated
Decree ffimd.
by presumption.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILROAD
SMITH.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

N6. 98. Argued March 21, 1898. -Decided May 81, 1898.
Neither the city of Bismarck, as owner of the town site, nor its grantee
Smith, can, under the circumstances disclosed in this record, disturb the
possession of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company in its right of way
extending two hundred feet on each side of its said road.
The finding of the trial court, that only twenty-five feet in width has ever
been occupied for railroad purposes, is immaterial.
By granting a right of way four hundred feet in width, Congress must be
understood to have conclusively determined that a strip of that width
was necessary for a public work of such importance, and it was not competent for a court, at the suit of a private party, to adjudge that only
twenty-five feet thereof were occupied for railroad purposes in the face
of the grant and of the finding that the entire land in dispute was within
two hundred feet of the track of the railroad as actually constructed,
and that the railroad company was in actual possession therepf by its
tenants.
The precise character of the business carried on by such tenants Is not disclosed, but the court is permitted to presume that it is consistent with
the public duties and purposes of the railroad company; and, at any rate,
a forfeiture for misuser could not be enforced in a private action.

THIS was an action brought by Patrick R. Smith on the
28th day of December, 1891, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of North Dakota against
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company. The -complaint
and answer were as follows:
"The complaint of the above-named plaintiff respectfully

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. SMITH.

261

Statement of the Case.

shows to this court and alleges that the plaintiff is and ever
since the organization of the State of North Dakota has been
a citizen thereof, and that prior thereto he was during all the
time hereinafter mentioned a citizen of the Territory. of
Dakota.
"That during all the time hereinafter mentioned the abovenamed defendant has been and still is a corporation created
by and existing under and in virtue of an act of the Congress
of the United States of America, entitled 'An act granting
lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph
line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound on the Pacific coast,
by the Northern route,' approved July 2, 1864.
"That on the 14th day of September, A.D. 1876, the plaintiff became and ever since has been and still is duly seized in
fee simple and entitled to the possession of the following
described real property situated in the city of Bismarck, in the
county of Burleigh and Territory of Dakota, (now, and since
the organization thereof under a state government, the State
of iNorth Dakota,) to wit: Lots numbered five, six, seven,
eight, nine, ten, eleven and twelve, in block number eight,
according to the recorded plat of the city of Bismarck, D. T.,
together with the hereditaments, privileges and appurtenances
thereof and thereto belonging.
"That said defendant more than six years prior to the commencement of this action wrongfully and unlawfully went
into possession of the premises*above described. That said
defendant ever since said entry has wrongfully and unlawfully retained and withheld, and still does wrongfully and
unlawfully retain and withhold, the possession thereof from
the plaintiff. And that the use and occupation thereof during
said time was worth at least five thousand dollars a year.
That the damage to the plaintiff by the wrongful withholding of the possession of the premises as aforesaid is the sum
of thirty thousand dollars.
"Wherefore the plaintiff demands judgment against said
defendant for the possession of said premises and for the sum
of thirty thousand dollars, his damages as aforesaid, together
with his costs and disbursements herein."

-OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

"The defendant for amended ahswer to the complaint
herein:
"First. For a first defence, alleges "That the land mentioned in the complaint is situated
within two hundred feet of the c6ntre line of the roadbed of
its line of railroad constructed through the State of North
Dakota, and has been for more than twenty years irits lawful possession as its right of way, roadbed and depot grounds,
and that the same was granted t6 it-as a right of way by the
act of Congress described in the complaint.
"Admits that at all times mentioned in the complaint the
plaintiff Was a resident of the city of Bismarck, in the State of
North Dakota, and further admits that the defendant is a
corporation created by the said act of Congress. Denies each
and every allegation in the complaint not hereinbefore specifically admitted, and it specifically denies that by reason of
any of the allegations or things in the said complaint set forth
the plaintiff has been damaged in any sum whatever.
"Second. For a second defence "That on the 9th day of May, 1889, the plaintiff impleaded
the defendant in the district court within and for the county
of Burleigh, in the sixth judicial district for the Territory of
Dakota (now the State of North Dakota), for the same cause
of action for which he has impleaded it in this action.
" Thatat the time of the commencement of this action, said
action was pending in said court and is still pending therein.
"Third. For a third defence"That 'on the 31st day of January, 1878, the defendant
recovered judgment against the plaintiff for the possession of
a portion of the property described in the complaint, to wit,
that portion thereof described as lots eleven and twelve, for
costs; and that said judgment
six cents damages and for $
was refidered upon the cause of action mentioned in the complaint, which judgment is in full force, unreversed and unsatisfied.
"Wherefore, the defendant demands judgment: 1st. That
the complaint be dismissed. 2d. For its costs and disbursements in this action."
-

NTORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. SMTITH.

263

Statement of the Case. -

The finding of fact and law made by the trial court were
as follows:
"The property in controversy, the same being eight lots in
the city of Bismarck in North Dakota, described as' lots five
(5) to twelve (12) both inclusive, in block eight (8), in"the city
of Bismarck, which was formerly known as Edwinton, -and
the name of which was changed by act of the legislature of
the Territory of North-Dakota to ' ismarck,' was'part of an
eighty (80) acre tract of land which was *entered by John A.
McLean as mayor of the city of Bismarck, in behalf of its inhabitants, under the town site act, (Revised Statutes, sec.
2387,) and Was patented to him thereunder July 21, 1879.
"The corporate authorities of that city subsequently and
more than six years prior to the commencement of the action
conveyed these lots to Patrick R. Smith, the plaintiff.
"The eighty (80) acre tract, on which these lots were situated, was selected as the location of a portion of this town
site, and surveyed prior to June 20, 1872. In the year 1872
the attorney of the Lake Superior and Puget Sound Land
company that first made this selectionCompany -the
commenced and thereafter continued to sell lots upon this
town site according to a plat thereof, which was then made,
and subsequently, on February 9, 1874, recorded, in the
office of the register of deeds of the county in which the
land was situated. By the first of January, 1873, thirty
buildings had been erected on the town site, and from that
time until the patent was. issued the population of the city
and the improvements in it continued to increase. It was
upon the town site thus selected and the plat thus made,
which was afterwards adopted as the plat and site of the
city of Bismarck, that the patent to McLean was based,
and this patent contained no reservation of any right of way
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company.
'-The Congressional township embracing the premises in
question was surveyed in the months of October and Novem"ber, 1872, .and the plat thereof filed in .the General Land
Office in March, 1873.
"On February 21, 1872, the Northern Pacific Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

Company filed in the Department of the Interior the map of
its general route east of the Missouri River. This route passed
about three quarters of a mile south of this eighty-acre tract.
On May 26, 1873, it filed with the Secretary of the Interior,
in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
and he accepted, its map fixing the definite location of its line.
The Interior Department thereupon designated such line upon
its record maps fov its use, and copies of such record maps
were forwarded to and remain on file in the office of the
-register and receiver of the land office at Bismarck, having
jurisdiction of that part of the public domain embracing the
premises in question. -The line thus fixed passed about two
miles south of this eighty-acre tract. During the year 1872
grading was done by the company on this line extending in a
continuous line from its. grading east of the township in
which this tract was located to a point one quarter of a mile
west of the west line of this eighty-acre tract extended south to
its intersection with- the grading. During the year 1872 there
was a line staked out across this tract substantially where the
railroad is now constructed, but no grading was done on this
line until the spring of 1873. In the year 1873 the railroad
was constructed across this tract, and has since remained and
been operated upon it. - The grading on its line of definite
location two miles south was abandoned. The lots in question
are within two hundred feet of the main track of this railroad
as actually constructed and more than two miles from its line
of definite location as shown on its map filed to definitely fix
this line, and have been occtipied by the defendant, through
its tenants, during the period in question ; but no part of the
same, except the rear twenty-five feet thereof, has ever been
occupied for railroad purposes.
"In the year 1877, the defendant 'commenced an action in
the district court of Burleigh County, Territory of Dakota,
(now the State of North Dakota,) in which county the
premises next hereinafter described were and are situated
against certain parties including the plaintiff herein, to recover
the possession of part of the premises here in question, which
portion is particularly described as follows: Commencing at

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. SMITH.

265

Opinion of the Court.

the southeast corner of Main and Third streets in the city of
Bismarck, the same being the northwest corner of block eight
(8), running thence east along the south line of said Main
street, a distance of fifty (50) feet; thence south, parallel
with the east line of said Third street, a distance of seventyfive (75) feet to said east line of said Ifain street, a distance
of fifty (50) feet, to said Third street; thence north, along
said east line of said Third street, a distance of Oeventy-five
(75) feet to the place of beginning. And such proceedings
were duly had in said action in said court (the same being a
court of competent jurisdiction of the parties and subjectmatter of said action) that the defendant in the -action herein
(the plaintiff in the action last above referred to) duly recovered in said action a judgment against the defendants in
that action including the plaintiff in this action, for the possession of the premises last above described, and for nominal
damages for the withholding thereof.
"That the value of the use and occupation of the premises
in question, for six years prior to December 28, 1891, the date
of the commencement of the action, is the sum of twentysix thousand dollars.
"From the foregoing facts I find, as conclusions of law,
that the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of the premises
above described, and to recover from the defendant the sum
of twenty-six thousand dollars with interest thereon from the
28th day of December, A.D. 1891, at the rate of seven per
cent per annum, and his costs and disbursements."
A . C. W. Bunn, for plaintiffs in error.'M r. C. W. Halcomb, by leave of court, filed a brief for same.
.Xr. ff. F. Steven8 for defendant in error.
MR. JusnTo SHrIAS, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.

By the second section' of the act of July 2, 1864, creating
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, there was granted

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

to that company, its successors and assigns, the right of way
through the public lands to the extent of two hundred feet in
width on each side of said "railroad where it may pass
through the public domain.
During the year 1872, there was a line staked out across
the tract, a portion of which is in dispute in this case, substantially where the railroad is now constructed, but no grading was .done on thiis line 'until the spring of 1873. In the
latter year the railroad was constructed across this tract, and
has since remained and been operated upon it. The lots in
question are within two hundred feet of the maid track of
this railroad as actually constructed, and have been occupied
by the defendant during the entire period since the construction of the road, excepting lots eleven and twelve, which
during about three years were in the adverse possession of
the firm of Browing & Wringrose and of Patrick R. Smith,
the defendant in error, as the tenant of said firm.
In 1877 an action of ejectment, to recover possession of said
lots eleven and twelve, was brought by the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, in the district Court of the Territory of
Dakota against Browing & Wringrose and said Patrick R.
Smith, which action resulted, on January 31, 1878, in a final
judgment, still subsisting, against said Smith and the other
defendants.
On the trial of the present action, which was brought in
the Circuit Court of the*United States for the District of
North Dakota in 1893, and which brought into question the
title and possession of lots five, six, seven, eight, nine and
ten, as well as of lots eleven and twelve, the plaintiff, Patrick
R. Smith, set up, as the basis of his title and right of possession, a deed of conveyance by the corporate authorities of the
city of Bismarck of the said lots as part of .a town site plat
patented to John A. McLean, as mayor of said city, on July 21,
1879. The record does not disclose a copy of such deed to
Smith, nor its date. In his complaint Smith alleged that
"on the fourteenth day of September, A.D. 1876, he became
and ever since has been and still is duly seized in fee simple
and entitled to the possession" of the property in dispute.

NORTHERN PAUIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. SMITH.

267

Opinion of the Court.
In the findings it is stated that the city authorities conveyed these lots to Patrick R. Smith, the plaintiff, sub8equently to the granting of the patent to the mayor on July
21, 1879.
The defendant, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
at the trial relied 6n its grant of a right of way from the
United States on July 2, 1864, on its possession of lots six,
seven, eight, nine and ten since the construction of the railroad'in 1873, and of lots eleven and twelve since their recovery under the action and judgment in 1878, and the company
likewise put in evidence the record of said suit and fecovery
as constituting resjudicakt.
The learned, judge of the Circuit Court, after stating the foregoing facts, and some others not necessary to be here mentioned,
entered judgment that the plaintiff was entitled to recover the
possession of all of said lots and the sum of twenty-six thousand
dollars, as the value of the use and occupation of the premises
in question, for six years prior to December 28, 1891, the date
of the commencement of the action; and that judgment was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 32 U. S. App. 573.
When it was made to appear that, by the second section
of the act of July 2, 1864, there was granted to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company a right of way through the public
lands, to the extent of two hundred feet in width on each side
of said railroad; that, in pursuance of said grant, the railroad company had constructed its road in 1873, including in
its right of way the land in dispute; that, on November 24,
1873, commissioners, appointed under the fourth section of
said act, reported that they had examined the Dakota division
of said railroad, (including that. portion of the same which
covered the land in controversy,) and that they had found its
construction and equipment throughout to be in accordance
with the instructions furnished for their guidance by the
Interior Department, and accordingly recommended the acceptance of the road by the Government; that said report had
been, on December 1, 1873, approved by the President; and
that the company had maintained and operated said railroad
since its said construction to the time of trial, undoubtedly

OCTOBER TERM, 189.,
Opinion of the Court

there was thus disclosed aprimafacie title and right of possession of the disputed tract.
To overthrow the railroad cdmpany's case the plaintiff
depended on an alleged conveyance made to him after July 21,
1879, by the city authorities of the city of Bismarck, of the
lots in dispute in this suit, and gave evidence that the eightyacre tract on which these lots were situated was selected as
a portion of a town site and surveyed prior to June 20, 1872,
by the Lake Superior and Puget Sound Land Company, and
that said land company made and, on February 9, 1874, recorded, a plat thereof, and that said town site and plat was
afterwards adopted as the town site of the city of Bismarck
under the town site act of the United States, (sec. 2387, Rev.
Stat.,) and was patented as such town site to John A. McLean,
mayor of said city, on July 21, 1879. The Congressional
township embracing the premises in question was surveyed
in the months.of October and November, 1872, and the plat
thereof was filed in the General Land Office in March, 1873.
It is evident that, when in 1873, the INorthern Pacific Railroad Company took possession of the land in dispute, as and
for its right of way, and constructed its road over and upon
the same, if the tract so taken was then part of the public
lands, only the United States could complain of the act of the
company in changing the location of its tracks from that previously selected. But, so far as this record discloses, the
United States did not object to such change of location, but
rather, by having, through the commissioners and the President, approved and accepted this part of the road when constructed, must be deemed to have acquiesced in the change of
location as properly made.
But was the land in question part -of the public domain in
the spring of 1873 ? It certainly was, unless the occupation,
at that time, of those who afterwards, in 1879, obtained a
patent for a tract of eighty acres, including the land in question as part thereof, for a town site, deprived it of that
character.
It has frequently been decided. by this court that mere
occupation and improvement on the public lands, with a

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. SMITH.

269

Opinion of the Court.

view to pregmption, do not confer a vested right in the land
so occupied; that the power of Congress over the public lands,
as conferred by the Constitution, can only be restrained by
the courts, in cases where the land has ceased .to be Government property by reason of a right vested in some person or
corporation; that such a vested right, under the pre6rnption
laws, is only obtained when the. purchase money has been
paid, and the receipt of the proper land officer given to the
purchaser. Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; The Yosemite
VFalley case, 15 Wall. 77; 'Buxton v. Traver, 130 U. S. 232;
Northern Pacif Railroad v. Colbntrn, 164 U. S. 383:
If, then, one seeking to appropriate to himself a portion of
the public lands cannot, no matter how long his occupation
or how large his improvements, maintain a right of possession
against the United States or their grantees, unless he has, by
entry and payment of purchase money, created in himself a
vested right, is one who claims under a town site grant in any
better position?
No cases are cited to that effect; nor does there seem to be
'any reason, in the nature of things, why rights created under
a town site settlement should be carried back, by operation of
law, so as to defeat the title of a party who had, under color
of right, taken possession and made valuable improvements
before the entry under the town site act.
It is one of the findings of fact that, in the year 1872, the
Lake Superior and Puget Sound Land Company'occupied a
tract of land, including within its boundaries the land in dispute, but it is also found that no plat thereof was filed in the
register's office until February 9, 1874, a year after the railroad company had gone into possession and constructed its
road, and that the patent was not granted to the mayor -in
behalf of the'city of Bismarck till July 21, 1879. It is also
one of the findings that the corporate authorities did not convey these lots to Patrick R. Smith till after the grant of the
patent.
The record contains no copy of the deed to Smith, nor statement of any consideration paid by him, nor of the date when,
if ever, he went into actual possession.

OCTOBER TERTM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

In such a state of facts will the law overturn the title of the
railroad company by imputing to Smith the antecedent possession of the Lake Superior and Puget Sound Land Com.pany? Whatever may be his rights to the land outside of
that in possession' of the railroad company, must it not be
inferred that he bought subject to the public highway ? *It is
found that in the month of June, 1873, the railroad had been
constructed across this tract, and has since remained and been
operated upon it'; and it is hard to imagine what notice more
distinct and actual could be given than that afforded by the
operation of a railroad. MoreQver, this record discloses that
Smith on or about November 1, 1876, (more than three years
after the completion of the railroad,) went into possession of
a portion of the land in dispute as a tenant of other parties,
and that he was ousted therefrbm by a final judgment in an
action of ejectment at the suit of the railroad company on
January 31, 1878.
*Apart from the legal effect of that judgment as res judicata, it is thus quite apparent that Smith thereby was visited
with notice of the claim of the railroad company.
But suppose it be conceded, for the sake of the argument,
that the Lake Superior and Puget Sound Land Company
made the first entry, and that the city of Bismarck and Smith
as its grantee could avail themselves .of such entry, still the
proof is that the railroad company completed its road over the
land before the town site was patented, and before Smith
*obtained his conveyance. To acquire the benefit tendered by
the act of 1864 nothing more was necessary than for the road
• to be constructed. The railroad company by accepting the
offer of the Government obtained a grant of the right of way,
which was at least perfectly good as-against the Government.
And be it further conceded, but not decided, that the railroad
company when it changed its route, after the filing of its map
of definite location, lost its priority of right under the grant
of the act of 1864 as against subsequent grantees of the United
States who obtained title before the actual constrhction of the
railroad, 'and thai the railroad company could only legally
proceed under the exercise of its right of eminent domain, it

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. SMITH.

271

Opinion of the Court.

still remains, as we think, under the facts of this case,-that
Smith could not maintain his present action seeking to oust
the company from possession of its right of way aid railroad
constructed thereon.
There is abundant authority for the proposition that, while
no man can be deptived of his property, even in the exercise
of the right of eminent domain, unless he is compensated
therefor, yet that the property holder, if cognizant of the
fact9, may, by permitting a railroad company, without objection, to take possession of land, construct its track, and operate
its road, preclude himself from a remedy by an action of ejectment. His remedy must be sought either in a suit in equity,
or in a proceeding under the statute, if one be provided, regulating the appropriating of private property for railroad purposes.
Such were the facts in the case of .fcAulay v. Western
VFermont Railroad Company, 33 Vermont, 311, and where
Chief Justice Redfield delivered the opinion of the court, a
portion of which we quote:
"It being admitted, as it seems to be, that the plaintiff had
full knowledge of the proceedings of the company to locate
and construct their road upon his land, before and during all
the time of the construction, and that he did not interfere in
any way to prevent the occupation of the land for the purposes of the road, otherwise than by forbidding the hands
worling on the road until his damages were paid, and that
only on one occasion, it becomes an important inquiry whether
he can maintain ejectment for the land by reason of the nonpayment of his damages. .
It is undoubtedly true
that, according to our general railroad statutes and the special
charters in this State, the payment or deposit of the amount
of the land damages, assessed or agreed, is. a condition precedent to the .vesting of the title, or of. any right in the company
to construct their road, and that if they proceed in such construction without this, they are trespassers, and this has been
repeatedly so held by this court.
"This may have led to the misapprehension in the present
case, but it certainly is a very serious misapprehension. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

these great public works the shortest period of clear acquiescence, so as fairly to lead the company to infer that the party
intends to waive his claim for present payment, will be held
to conclude the right to assert the claim in any such form as
to stop the company in the progress of their works, and
especially to stop the running of the road after it has been
put in operation, whereby the public acquire an important
interest in its continuance. The party does not, of course,
lose his claim or'the right to enforce it in all proper modes.
He may possibly have some rights analogous to the vendor's
lien in England, and here until the legislature cut it off. But
it is certain, according to the English decisions, that he cannot
stop the work, and especially the trains upon the road, if he
has, in any sense, for the shortest period, clearly given to the
company, either by his express consent, or by his silence, to
understand that he did not intend to object to their proceedilig with their construction and operation. . . . If there
was then a waiver in fact, either express or implied, by
acquiescence in the proceedings of the company, to the extent
of not insisting upon payment as a condition precedent, but
consenting to let the damages be and remain a mere debt,
with or'without a lien upon the roadbed, as the law may turn
out to be, then it is impossible to regard the defendants in
any sense in the light of trespassers or liable in ejectment."
Justice v. lTesquehoning Valley Railroad, 87 Penn. St. 28,
was IL case where a railroad company was a trespasser,
and its entry upon land not in conformity with law, and it
was held that these irregular proceedings did not operate as a
dedication to the landowners of the property of the company,
placed upon the land, so as to entitle said landowners to
include said property in an assessment of damages under
the railroad law, and recover their value as an accession to
the value of the land taken by the company. In delivering the
opinion of the Supreme Court, Chief Justice Agnew said:
"This is not the case of a mere trespass by one having no
authority to enter, bit of one representing the State herself,
clothed with the power of eminent domain, having a right to
enter, and to place these mateials on the land taken for a

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. SMITH. 273
Opinion"of the Court.

public use- materials essential to the very purpose which the
State has declared in tle grant of the charter. It is true the
entry was a trespass, by reason of the omission to do an actrequired for the security of the citizen, to wit, to make compensation or give security for it. For this injury the citizen
is entitled to redress. But his redress cannot extend beyond
his injury. It cannot extend to taking the personal chattels
of the railroad company. They are not his and cannot
increase his remedy. The injury was to-what the landholder
bad himself, not to what he had not. Then why should the
materials laid down for the benefit of the public be treated as
dedicated to him ? In the case of a common trespasser the
owner of the land may take and keep his ftructures, nolens
volens, but it is not so in this case; for though the original
entry was a trespass, it is well settled, that the company can
proceed, in due course of law, to appropriate the land, and
consequently to reclaim and avail itself of the structures laid
thereon."
In Provolt v. Chicago, Rock island & Pacific Railroad,
57 Missouri, 256, it was held that the conduct of a landholder in standing by while a railroad company constructed
its road, precluded him from recovering physical possession of
the land covered thereby. Judge Wagner, after quoting with
approval the language of Chief Justice Redfield in McAulay
v. lFestern Vermont Railway Co., hereinbefore cited, said:
"The plaintiff did not attempt to obstruct or in anywise
impede the progress of the work. The plain inference was
that he waived his right for prepayment of his damages and
only intended to follow his remedy on his judgment. His
conduct surely led the company to believe such was his purpose and induced them to pursue a course and expend large
sums of money which, otherwise, they would not have done.
If plaintiff intended to rely on his.rights and make present
payment a condition precedent, he should have objected and
forbidden the company to interfere or to do any work on his
land till the question of damage was settled. But this he did
not do. He acquiesced in the proceedings of the company to
the extent of not insisting upon the prepayment as a condiVOL. cLXXi-18'

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
.Opinion of the Court.

tion precedent; and after having done so, we do not think
that he can maintain ejectment..
"If from negotiation in regard to the price of the land, or"
for any other reason, there is jhst ground of inference that
the works have been constructed with the express or implied
assent of the landowner, it would seem wholly at variance
with the expectations of the parties and the reason of the
case, that the landowner should retain the right to enter
upon tlljand, or to maintain ejectment. There are other
effecive -. nd sufficient remedies. A court of equity would
uncjuestifiiably interfere, if necessary, and place the road in
the hands of a receiver until the damages were paid from the
earnings. (2 Redf. Am. Railw. Cas. 2d ed. 353.) But the
only question.we are called upon to decide is whether under
the facts-and circumstances of this case ejectment will lie, and
we think it will- not."
A similar question was decided in the case of "he Omaha
aird Northern .Nebraska Railway v. Iedick, 16 Nebraslc,
313. This was an action of ejectment for the possession of a
forty-acre tract of land, brought. by a landowner against a
railroad company, which had constructed its road over said
tract. It seems that the plaintiff, as one of the directors of
the railroad company, had known that the company was constructing its road across its lands, and had remained quiet'.
The court said:
"-It is true that under the 'constitution and laws of this
"State" the assessment of damages and payment or deposit of
the amount is a condition precedent to the vesting of the title
or of any right of the company to construct their road. But
these conditions are susceptible of being waived.
Whatever right the plaintiff may have against the railroad
company, growing out of this right of way question, and
whether he is estopped in pais to assert any and all of them,
it seems clear that he is not entitled to a judgment that would
enable him to sever a line of commerce which, by his assent
if not through his active agency in part; was constructed over
this same property, and has enjoyed free passage over it for
%atleast seven years."

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. SMITH.

275

Opinion of the Court.

The same conclusion was reached in Lexington
. Ohio
Railroad v. Ormsby, 7 Dana, 276; Barlow v. farquette &c.
Railroad,41 Michigan, 336; Cairo and Eulton Railroad v.
Turner, 31 Arkansas, 494; Pettibone v. Lacrosse and Milwauee Railroad, 14 Wisconsin,-443; Chicago and Alton
Railroad v. Goodwin, 111 Illinois, 273; YKanaga +. Railway
Co., 76 Missouri, 207; Dodd v. St. Louis &f Ilannibal Rai&way, 108 Missouri, 581; Evansville &f Terre-Hautm 2?ilroadi
v. NSye, 113 Indiana, 223.
This subject was fully considered by this court iV'the cme
of Ro~ert8 v. NYorthern racipo Railroad,158 U. S. 1, where,
upon the fdregoing authorities and others, it was held"that if
a landowner, knowing that a railroad company Ihas entered
upon his land and is engaged in constructing its road without
having complied with "astatute requiring either payment by
agreement or proceedings to condemn, remains inactive and
permits it to go on and expend large sums in the work, he is
estopped from maintaining either trespass or ejectment for
the entry, and will be regarded as having acquiesced therein;
and will be restricted to a suit for damages.
Upon principle and authority we therefore conclude that
neither the city of Bismarck, as owners of the town site, nor
its grantee Smith, can, under the' facts and circumstances
shown in this record, disturb the possession of "the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company in its right of way extending two
hundred feet on each side of its said road. The finding of
the trial court, that only twenty-five feet in width has ever
been occupied for railroad purposes, is immaterial. By grant-.
in g a right of way four hundred feet in width, Congres's' mus
be understood to have conclusively determined that a strip of
that width was nebessary for a public work of such importance;
and it was not competent for a court, at the suit of a private
party, to adjudge that only twenty-five feet thereof were occupied for railroad purposes in the face of the grant and of
the finding that the entire land in dispute -was within two
hundred feet of the track of the railroad as actually constructed, and that the railroad company was in actual possession thereof by its tenants. The precise character of the .busi-

276 '

oCTOBER TERiT4, 1897.
Concurring Opinion: Brewer, J.

ness carried on by such tenants is not disclosed to us, but we
are permitted to presume that it is consistent with the public
duties and purposes of the railroad company; ind, at any rate,
a forfeiture for misuser could not be enforced in a private
action.
These views dispose of the case, and render it unnecessary
to determine whether the trial of the title of lots eleven and
twelve, in the action between the railroad company .andSmith,
as a tenant of Browing & Wringrose, resulting in a final judgment, was well pleaded as resjudicatain the present action.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Aypeals is reversed;
the judgment of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and
the cause remanded to that court with a direction to ent~r
a judgment in favor of the defendants.
M . JUSTICE GRAY and MR. JUSTICE WmmT concurred in
the judgment of the court only on the ground first stated in
the opinion of the court, that is, the sufficiency of the title
of the railroad company.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, concurring specially: I concur in a
reversal of the judgments below but not in all the conclusions
reached in the foregoing opinion, nor in the direction to enter
judgment for the defendant. I think the estoppel relied on
goes only to the ground actually occupied by the railroad company with its tracks, station houses and other buildings used
exclusively for railroad purposes, and does not extend to the
entire four hundred feet of the right of way which the company
claims under the Congressional grant. It may be that a large
portion of this tract is in only the constructive possession of
the company, or it may be occupied by the buildings not used
exclusively for railroad purposes, and as to all such ground I
do not think any'estoppel extends.
I am also of the opinion that the legal title conveyed by the
town site patent and the deed to plaintiff must prevail in this
action at law over any equities the company may have acquired
by occupancy.

MR.JUSTICE- HARLAN dissented.

