138

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

PULLMAN'S PALACE CAR COMPANY v. CENTRAL

TRMNSPORTATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FROM
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA; AND ALSO CERTI)RARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 141. Argued March 24, 25, 1898.- Decided May 81, 1898.
By taking an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals the Pullman Company
did not, under the peculiar circuinstances of this case, waive its tight
to appeal to this court, and the case being now before this court either
on appeal or-by the writ of certiorari, it has jurisdiction.
In order to authorize a denial of a plaintiff's motion to discontinue a suit in
equity, there must be some plain legal prejudice to the defendant, other
than the mere prospect of future litigation, rendered possible by the discontinuance.
Unless there be an obvious violation of a fundamental rule of a court of
equity, or 'an abuse of the discretion of the court, the decision of a
motion for leave to discontinue will not be reviewed here.
The decision of the Circuit Court in depying the .motion of the Pullman
Company to discontinue its suit was right, as was also its decision permitting the Central Company to file a cross bill.
In no way, and through no channels, directly or indirectly, will courts allow
an action to be maintained for the recovery of 'property delivered under
an illegal contract, where, in order to maintain such recovery, is is necessary to have recourse to that contract; but the right of recovery must
rest ow a disaffirmance of the contract, and is permitted only because
of the desire of courts to do justice, as far as possible to the party who
has made payment or delivered property under a void agreemet, which
in justice he ought to recover, and no recovery will be permitted which
will weaken said rule founded upon the principles of public policy.
Acting upon those settled principles the cotrt decides:
(1) That the Central Company is entitled to recover from the Pullman
Company the value of the property transferred by it to that company *hen the lease took effect, with interest, as that property has
substantially disappeared, and cannot now be returned;
(2) That the value of that property is not to be ascertained from the
market value of the shares of the Central Company's stock at that
time, but by the value of the property transferred;
(3) That the value of the contracts with railroad companies transferred
by the Central Company form no part of the sum which it is entitled to recover;

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. TRANSPORTATION CO.

139

Statement of the Case.
(4) That the saife principle applies to the patents transferred which had
all expired;
(5) That it is not entitled to recover anything -for the breaking up of
its business by reason of the contracts being adjudged illegal.

THE record in this case shows that in 187.0 the. Central
Transportation Company, hereafter called the Central Company, was a corporation which had been in 1862 incorporated
under the general manufacturing laws of the State of Pennsylvania. It was engaged in the business of operating railway
sleeping cars and of hiring them to railroad companies under
written contracts by which the cars were to be used by the
railroad companies for the purpose of furnishing sleeping
conveniences to travellers. The corporation at this time' had
contracts with a number of different railroad companies in the
East, principally, but not exclusively, with what is known as
the Pennsylvania Railroad system, and it had been engaged
in its business with those companies for some time prior to
1870. In the year last named the Pullman's Palace Cari
Company, hereafter called the Pullman Company, was a
corporation which had been incorporated under the laws of
the State of Illinois. It was doing the same -general kind of
business in the West that the Central Company was doing in
the East. For reasons not material to detail, the two companies entered into an agreement of lease, which was executed
February 17, 1870.
By its terms the Central Company leased to the Pullman
Company. its entire plant and personal property together with
its contracts which it had with railroad companies for the use
of its sleeping cars on their roads, and also.the patents belongihg to it. The lease was to run for ninety-nine years, which
was the duration of the charter of the Central Company.
It was also agreed that the Central Company would not
engage in the business of manufacturing, using or hiring
sleeping cars while the contract remained in force.
In consideration of these various obligations, the Pullman
Company agreed to pay annually the sum of $264,000 during
the entire term of ninety-nine years; in quarterly payments, the
first quarter's payment to be made on the 1st of April, 1870.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

From the time of the execution, of the contract its terms
were carried out, and no particular trouble occurred between
the companies for about fifteen years. During this time and
up to the 27th day of January, 1885, the Pullman Company
paid to the Central Company, as rent under the contract, the
sum of $3,960,000, without any computation of interest.
About or just prior to January, 1885, differences arose between the companies. The Pullman Company claimed the
right to terminhte the contract under the eighth* clause
thereof, or else to pay a much smaller rent. The merits of
the controversy are not material.
The two companies not agreeing, and the Pullman Company
refusing to pay the rent stipulated for in the lease, the Central
Company brought successive actions to recover the instalments
of rent accruing. In one of them the Pullman Company
pleaded the illegality of the lease, as being ultravires the charter
of the Central Company. The plea prevailed in the trial court,
aid upon writ of'error the judgment upholding this defence
was, in March, 1891, sustained in this court. Central Transportation Company v. Pullman'sVar Company, 139 U. S.24.
After the bringing of several actions for instalments of
rent by the Central 'Company and before the question of

ultra vires had been argued in this court, the Pullman Company on the 25th day of January, 1887, commenced this suit
by the filing of its bill against the Central Company in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania. The bill asked for an injunction to restrain
the briinging of more suits for rent. It gave a general history
of the transactions between the companies from -the execution
of the contract between them in February, 1870, down to the
time of the filing of the bill, and it alleged the election of
the Pullman Company to terminate the lease under the provisions of the eighth clause thereof, atid the willingness of
the company to paywhat should be found by the court to
be equitable and right to the Central Company on account
of the property which had been transferred by that company
to it, and to this end it prayed the aid of the court. The bill
also contained the following allegation:

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. TRANSPORTATION CO.

141

Statement of the Case.

"And your orator shows that in said lease it is recited that
the said contract of lease is made on the part of the defend-

ant, the said Central Transportation Company, under an act
of the general assembly of the Commonwealth of Penn-

sylvania therein named, approved the 9th day of February,
A.D. 1870, a copy whereof is hereto attached, marked Exhibit
G, and referred.to as part of this bill; but your orator is advised, and therefore submits it to the court, that the said
lease being a grant, assignment and transfer of all the .property, contracts and rights of the said defendant, the Central
Transportation Company, and. including a covenant* on the.
part of said defendant corporation not to transact during
the existence of said lease any of the busihess for the transaction of which it was incorporated, was never legally valid
between the parties thereto, but was void for the want of
authority and corporate power on the part of the defendant
to make the said contract of lease, and because. the same was
in violation'of the charter conferring the corporate powefs of
said defendant, and of the purpose of its incorporation, as by
the said charter, to which, .for greater certainty, reference is
made, your o.rator is advised it will appear; that the said contract of lease was never susceptible of being enforced in law
by your orator against said defendant, and cannot therefore
be construed and held to continue, in force and obligatory
upon your orator; and that your orator can be under no
other legal obligation or equitable duty to the defendant than
to return such of the property assumed to be demised as is
capable of being returned, and to make just compensation for
such other of the said property as under the said contract of
lease. it -ought. to make compensation for, which it is willing
and now offers to do."
In the prayer for relief it was also asked
"That the court may considef and decree whether said contract of lease was not made without authority Of law on the
patt of the defendant and in excess of its corporate powers
and in violation of its corporate duties, so as not to be enforceable against your orator beyond the obligation of your
orator to make return of or just compensation for the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

demised; and that an account may be taken between your
orator and defendant, and that the amount may be ascertained that should be paid by your orator to the defendant
.on any account whatever;
.
.
and that an accounting
may be had between your orator and defendant as to all the
matters and things set out in this bill."
The Central Company answered the bill, denying many of
the material'allegations therein contained. It denied that the
Pullman Coipafiy had ever elected to terminate the lease
under the provisions of the eighth clause thereof, and it
alleged that the lease was still in existence, and that it had
the right to recover from the Pullman Company the amount
of the rent named in the lease, and that, no valid agreement
had.ever been made between the companies in any way altering the lease or reducing the amount of the rent payable
thereunder. It denied that the lease was illegal, and it
alleged that even if it were, the illegality did not justify the
c6mplainant in applying for any equitable relief whatever.
•Up-on application on the part of the Pullman Company the
court granted an injunction restraining the bringing of suits
for the collection of rent accruing after July, 1886, but it
declined to enjoin thbse already pending for rent accruing
before that date.
-'After considerable proof had been taken upon the issues
involved in this suit and after the decision of the other case
in this court, in March, 1891, holding the lease illegal and
void, the complainant herein, on the 25th of April, 1891,
applied to the court for leave to dismiss its bill at its own cost.
--This- application was opposed by the defendant, who, on the
-same day, moved for leave to file a cross-bill, in which it said
it would avail itself of the tenders of relief made by the complainant in its bill, and that it would pray such relief in its
cross-bill as might be pertinent to the case made by the bill.
In December, 1891, complainant's motion for leave to dismiss
its bill was denied, and the defendant's motion for leave to
file a cross-bill was granted. Thereupon the cross-bill was
filed, in which the Central Company acknowledging, under
the decision of this court, that the lease in question was void,

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. TRANSPORTATION CO.

143

Statement of the Case.
claimed to avail itself of the tenders made in complainant's
bill upon the subject of the return of its property and compensation for that Which it was impossible to return, and
claimed, among other things, that the Pullman Company
should account fof all the profits which it had derived since
the making of the l6ase by the use of the property transferred
to it under the agreement, and that the amount found due
should be paid to the Central Company, and that the Pullman
Conpany should be adjudged to be-a trustee for the Central
Company. of all the contracts for transportation, whether
original, new or renewals, held by .the Pullman Company
with railroad companies with which there were contracts of
transportation with the Central Company at the time of the
making of the lease in February, 1870, and that the Pullman
Company should be adjudged to pay the Central Company all
such sums as should be due to it by the Pullman Company as
such trustee, and that defendant should in the future from
time to time account for the sums which should be due by
reason of future operations under those contracts. It also
prayed for a discovery and an accounting by the Pullman
Company of.its use and disposition of the property turned
over to it by the Central Company.
To this cross-bill the Pullman Company filed three demurrers, the first being a general demurrer on the ground
that the cross-bill was filed contrary. to the practice of the
court, and also that it appeared that the court had no jurisdiction of the case; the second demurrer related to the portions of the cross-bill praying that the cross-defendant ihight
be regarded as a trustee and decreed to account accordingly;
the third demurrer related to that part of the cross-bill which
asked for an account of profits since the making of the lease
and for future profits.
The demurrers were overruled with leave to present the
questions on final hearing, and the Pullman Company then
answered the cross-bill. Among other things it set up that
the agreement in question was void, "and that being null and
void between the parties hereto because of such character of
the agreement, it cannot be made the lawful foundation of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

a.tion or application for any relief whatever between the
parties thereto. And this respondent submits that the rule
which precludes the granting of relief by any court of either
equity or law, upon a contract void for contravention of public
policy, forbade this Circuit Court to allow such affirmative
relief upon this cross-bill which asserts no claim of right not
founded directly upon the express undertakings of this contract of lease, held void by this court itself and by the
Suprefme Court 'for the reasons aforesaid." The Pullman
Company therefore denied that it owed any duty to the crosscomplainant, which was enforceable at law or equity, to return
to the Central Company the property.-ssigned under the lease
or to account for any profits derived under and by reason of
any propefty delivered to it under the agreement.
Testimony was taken under these pleadings, and the case
came before the Circuit Court for final hearing, and that court
held that the cross-complainant made out a case for an acc6anting by the cross-defendant for the value of the property
when received, together with its earnings since, less the
amount paid as rent. The court, therefore, referred it to a
master for the purpose of ascertaining the facts, with directions to report within the time named in the order of reference. Under this order testimony was taken and the master
reported in favor of the Central Company, and the exceptions
filed having been overruled, judgment was entered in favor
of the Central Company for the sum of $4,235,044, together
with costs. From this judgment the Pullman Company
appealed directly to'this court. It also appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The case was there argued upon a
motion to ,dismiss the appeal, and the motion denied, and
the further argument was postponed until some disposition
was made of the appeal taken directly to this court. 39 U. S.
App. 307. A motion has also been made to this court to dismiss the appeal, and thereupon an application was- made to us
for a writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit, and on account of. the peculiar circumstances it
was granted, and the record has been. returned to this court
by virtue of that writ.

PULLMANT'S OAR CO. i

-TRAISPORTATI0"I

CO.

145

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Edward 8. 18ham and Mr. Jo8 Tph H. Choate for
appellant. Mr. A. H. Winterteen and Mr. Robert T. Lincoln
were on their brief.
Mr. Frank P. Prichard and Mr. John G. Johnso8n fof
appellee.
MR. JusTICE PECKHAMr,

after stating the facts, delivered the -

opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss the appeal in this case is noiv before
the court.
Counsel for the Pullman Company took the appeal directly
from the Circuit Court to this 'court on the theory that the
case involved the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States, because of the holding of the court
below- that the cause of action alleged by the Central Company in its cross-bill was, under the circumstances, a proper
subject of equitable cognizance, and counsel claimed it was
really nothing but a legal cause of action in regard to wiich
the cross-defendant was entitled to a trial by jury under the
Constitution of the United States. There being room for
doubt in regard to the soundness of such cbutention, the
counsel also took an appeal to the Circuit" Court of Appeals,
and we think that by this action he did not waive any right
of appeal which he would otherwise have had.- Whichever
route may be the correct one, either directly froni the Circuit
Court or through the Circuit Court of Appeals, it is unnecessary to decide, because the case is now properly before us
either by appeal or by writ of certiorari, and we therefore proceed to determine it upon the merits.
The Pullman Company, complainant in the original suit,
insists that it had the right to discontinue that suit at its own
cost before any decree was obtained therein, and the refusal
of the court below'to grant an order of discontinuance upon
its application is the first ground of objection to the decree
herein.
The general proposition is true that a complainant in pn
VOL. CLXXI -10

OCTQBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

equity suit may dismiss his bill at any time before the hearing, but to this general, proposition there are. some well recognized exceptions. Leave to dismiss a bill is not granted
where, beyond the incidental annoyance of a second litigation
upon the subject-matter, such action would be manifestly prejudicial to the defendant. The qubject is treated of in Detroit
v. Detroit City Railway Cormany, in an opinion by the Circuit Judge, and reported in 55 Fed. Rep. 569, w.here many of
the authorities are collected, and the rule is stated substantially as above. The rule is also referred to in Chicago &_
Alton Railroadv. Union Rolling Mill Co., 109 U. S. 702.
Froni these cases we gather that there must be some plain,
legal prejudice to defendant. to authorize a denial of the
motion to discontinue; such prejudice must be other than the
ipere prospect of future litigation rendered possible by the discontinuance. If the defendants have acquired some rights
which might be lost or rendered less efficient by the discontiiiuance, then the court, in the exercise of a sound discretion,
may deny the application. Stevens v. .Tke Railroads, 4 Fed.
Rep. 97, 105. Unless there is an obvious violation of a fundamental rule of a court of equity or an abuse of the discretion
of the court, the decision of a motion for leave to discontinue
will not be reyiewed here.
Upoh an examination of the facts relating to the motion,
we think the Circuit Court was right, in the exercise of its
discretion, in denying the same. The original bill was framed
really on two theories: One, that by reason of an election
made under the eighth clause in the lease, the Pullman Company had terminated the lease, and it was therefore bound
under its provisions to return the property which it-had received
from the Central Company. It stated in its bill the impossibility of returning a large portion of the property which it
had received; it announced its willingness to make substantial
performance of its contract contained in the lease, and it asked
the court to aid it therein by decreeing exactly what it should
do for the purpose of carrying out equitably and fairly its
obligations incident to its termination of the lease under the
clause above mentioned. The other theory rested upon what

PULLM"IA'S CAR CO. v. TRANLSPORTATION CO.

147

Opinion of the Court.

was a substantial allegation of the invalidity of the lease as
having been made without authority of law, and therefore in
violation of the corporate duties of the Central Company, and
on that account not enforceable against the Pallffian Company beyond the obligation of the latter company to make
return of just compensation for the property demised. Upon
that theory the bill asked, not that the court should set aside
or cancel the lease, but that it should aid the parties by decreeing just what relief should be giveii by the complainant
to the lessor in the execution of its duty to make some compensation for the property it received and which it stated its
willingness fo make, and to that end, that an accounting might
be had and the amount ascertained that should be paid to .the
Central Company in discharge of the obligations of the complainant in that behalf. Thus the Pullman Company came
into a court of equity and in substance alleged that the lease
had been terminated by it under the eighth clause and-it also
alleged that the lease was void as ultra vires, and in either
event it tendered such relief as the court might think was
proper and fair under the circumstances.
A large amount of proof had been taken under the issues
made in this original bill and the answer thereto, and before
the case was concluded the decision of this court was made in
which the lease was declared to be void. The only obligation
left under the original bill of complainant after the decision
of this court, was the obligation to return such portion of the
property received by it as the court should determine to be
right, or to make some compensation to the Central Company
for the same.. And this obligation it had offered in the original bill to carry out.
The Pullman Company had also obtained an injunction in
the original suit, restraining the Central Company from commencing further legal proceedings to recover rent under the
lease, and after obtaining this injunction and taking the testimony relating to the subject-matter of the original bill, the
complainant should not be permitted under these circumstances to dismiss that bill and thus withdraw the whole
-case from the jurisdiction of the court, and thereby blot out

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

its tenders of relief contained in its original bill grounded,
among others, upon the allegation that the lease was void,
and asking the aid of the court to decree the precise terms
upon which its obligations to the Central Company might be
fulfilled.
The denial of the motion was made in connection with the
application of the Central Company to file a cross-bill in which
it would seek to avail itself of the tenders made by the Pullman Company in the original bill, Such an application for
leave to file a cross-bill, seeking affirmative relief while at the
same time availing itself of those tenders of relief made by
the original complainants, would furnish additional ground
for the exercise.of the discretion of the court in refusing to
grant the apllication for leave to discontinue. We think
there was no error committed by the court below in refusing
the leave asked for.
The further objection is made by the counsel for the Pullman Company that it was error, to .allow the cross-bill to be
filed in ,this case. Counsel for the Pullman Company assert
that the cailse of action for a return of the property is a purely
legal one of which a court of equity has no jurisdiction, and
that it can acquire none simply by the filing of a cross-bill.
Whatever" may be the original character of the liability of
the Pullman Company to return or make compensation for
the property, we are of opinion that under the facts above set
forth it cannot object to the filing of the cross-bill, or to the
determination of the amount of its liability by a court of equity.
It had itself voluntarily appealed to the jurisdiction of such a
court for the purpose of obtaining its aid in decreeing the
terms upon which its obligations to the Central Company
might be fulfilled and the lease terminated, either under the
eighth clause in the lease or because of its. invalidity as being
,ultravires. Having thus appealed to equity for its aid and
the lease having been conclusively determined to have been
void, we think it was within the fair discretion of the court to
retain jurisdiction of the cause and of tfae original complainant,
and to permit the filing of a cross-bill in which the cross-complainant might seek affirmative relief, and at the same time

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. TRANSPORTATION CO.

149

Opinion of the Court.

avail itself of the tenders made by the complainant in its
original bill.
The facts which were set up in the cross-bill closely affected
one of the theories upon which-the original bill was fi.ed, viz.,
the invalidity of the lease. They were relevant to the matters
in issue in the original suit, and in seeking affirmative relief
the cross-complainant is but amplifying and making clearer the
foundations'for the intervention of equity, which had been
appealed to by the Pullman Company, and the continued intervention of which would greatly speed a final termination of
all matters for litigation between the parties. The court below did not err in permitting the cross-bill to be filed.
This brings us to a discussion of the principles upon which
a recovery in this case should be founded. The so called
lease mentioned in this case has been already pronounced
illegal and void by this court. 139 U. S. 24. The contract
or-lease was held to be unlawful and void because it was
beyond the powers conferred upon the Central Company by
the legislature, and because it involved an abandonment by'
that company.of its duty to the public. It was added 'that
there was strong ground also for holding that the contract
between the parties was void because in unreasonable restraint of trade, and therefore contrary to public policy. In
making the lease the lessor was certainly as much in fault as
the lessee. It was argued on the part of the Central Company that even if the con-tract sued on were void, yet that
having been fully performed on the part of the lessor and the
benefits of it received by the lessee for the period covered by
the declaration in that case, the defendant should be estopped
from setting up the invalidity of the contract as a defence to
the action to recover compensation for that period. But it
was answered that this argument, though sustained by the
decisions in some of the States, finds no support in the judgments of this court, and cases in this court were cited in which
such recoveries were denied.
It is true that courts in different States have allowed a
recovery in such cases, among the latest of which is the case
.of Bath Gas Light Co. v. Ciaffy, 151 N. Y. 24, where Chief

OCTOBER TE.RM1,

1897.

Opinion of the Court.

Judge Andrews of the Court of Appeals examines the various
cases, and that court concurreV with him in permitting a recovery of rent upon a void lease where the lessee had enjoyed
the benefits of the possession of the property of the lessor
during the time for which the recovery of rent was sought.
But iii. the case of this lease, now before the court, a recovery of the rent due thereunder was denied the lessor, although
the lessee had enjoyed the possession of the property in ac0ordance with the .terms of the lease. It was said (page 60
of the report in 139 U. S.), "the courts, while refusing to
maintain any action upon the unlawful contract, have always
striven to do justice between the parties so far as could be
done consistently with adherence to law, by permitting:property or money parted with on the faith of the unlawful contract to be recovered back or compensation to be made for it.
In such case, however, the action is not maintained upon the
unlawful contract nor according to its terms, but on an imlied
contract of the defendant to return, or failing. to do that, to
make compensation for the property or money which it had
no right to retain. To maintain such an action was not to
affirm, but disaffirm; the unlawful contract." And the opinion
of the court ended with the statement that, "Whether this
plaintiff could maintain any action against this defendant, in
the nature of a quantum meruit, or otherwise, independently
of the contract, need not be considered, because it is not presented by this record and has not been argued. This action,
acdording to the declaration and evidence, was brought and
prosecuted for the single purpose of recovering sums which
.the defendant had agreed to pay by "the unlawful contract,
and which, for the reasons and upon the authorities above
stated, the defendant was not liable for."
The principle is not new; but, on the contrary, it has been
frequently announced, commencing in cases considerably over
a hundred years old. It was said by Lord Mansfield, in Hfol2n~an v. JoAnson, 1 Cowper, 341, decided in 1775, that "the
objection that a contract is immoral or illegal as between
the plaintiff and defendant, sounds at all times very ill in the
mouth of the defendant. It is not for his sake, however, that

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. TRANSPORTATION CO.

151

Opinion of the Court.

the objection is ever allowed; but it is founded in general
principles of policy, which the defendant has the advajntage
of, contrary to the real justice, as between him and the plaintiff, by accident, if I may so say. The principle. of public
policy is this: ex dolo malo non oritur aotio. No court will
lend its aid to a man who founds his cause of action upon an
immoral or an illegal act."
The cases upholding this. doctrine are numerous and emphatic. Indeed, there is really no dispute concerning it, but
the matter of controversy in this case is as to the extent to
which the doctrine should be applied to the facts herein.
Many of th6 cases are referred to and commented upon in the
opinion delivered in thp case in 139 U. S. 24, already cited.
The right to a recovery of the property transferred under an
illegal contract is founded upon the implied .promise to return
or make compensation for it. For illustrations of the general
doctrine as applied to particular facts we refer in the margin
to a few of the multitude of cases upon the subject.'
They are substantially unanimous in expressing the view
that in no way and through no channels, directly or indirectly, will the courts allow an action to be maintained for
the recovery of property delivered under an illegal contract
where, in order to maintain such recovery, it is necessary to
have recourse to that contract. The right of recovery must
rest upon a disaffirmance of the contract, and it is permitted
only because of the desire of courts to do justice as far as possible to the party who has made payment or delivered property under a void agreement, and which in justice he ought
to recover. But courts will not in such endeavor permit any
1 Coppell v. Hall, 7 Wall. 542; Spring Company v. Knowlton, 103 U. S.
49; Logan County Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S.67; St. Louis &c. Railroad
Company v. Terre Haute &c. Railroad Company, 145 U. S. 393, at 408, 409;
Manchester & Lawrence Railroad Company v. Concord Railroad Company,
66 N. H. 100; White v. Franklin Bank, 22 Pick. 181; Utica Insurance Company v. Cadwell, 3 Wefid. 296; Atcheson v. Mallon, 43 1T. Y. 147; Leonard
v. Poole, 114 N. Y. 371; Snell v. Dwight, 120 Mass. 9; Davis v. Old Colony
Railroad, 131 Mass. 258; Holt v. Green, 73 Penn. St. 198; Joh~ison v. Hulins, 103 Penn. St. 498; Thomson v. Thomson, 7 Ves. 470; Sykes v. Beadon,
L. R. 11 Ch. Div. "170; Brooks v. Martin, 2 Wall. 70.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897;,
Opinion of the Court.

recovery which will weaken the rule founded upon the principles of public policy already noticed.
We may now examine .the record herein and learn the
grounds for the recovery which has been permitted, and determine therefrom whether the judgment in favor of the Central Company shoild be in all things affirmed, or if not, then
how far the liability of the cross-defendant extends, and, if
possible, what should be the amount of the judgment against it.
In referring the case to the master for the purpose of taking
the account between the. parties the learned District Judge
stated the principle upon which the liability of the crossdefendant rested. He said:
"The property must therefore be returned or paid for: The
former is impossible. The property has substantialiy disappeared. It has becom incorporated with the business and
property of the plaintiff, and cannot be separated. Compensation must therefore be made. What, then, is the, measure
of compensation ? Clearly, we think, .the value of the property
when received, together with its earnings since, less the
amount
paid as rent. In ascertaining the value the annual
rental may be considered, but it does not afford a conclusive
nor an entirely safe measure of value, because the unlawful
consideration (that the Central Company would abstain from
exercising its franchises) entered into it. For the same reason
the earnings cannot be measured by the rent. The value of.
-the property and earnings must be ascertained from a careful
examination of the property, the business and its earpings at
the time they passed into plaintiff's hands and subsequently.
It is not their value to the plaintiff we want, but to the defendant; in effect, what is lost by parting with them. The
value of both property and earnings may have been worth
more to the plaintiff with the business united, but this cannot
be considered."
Acting under these directions of the court, the master in
his opinion said:
"Passing to the consideration of the main question raised
in the present referene, viz., what the Central Transportation
Company lost by the transfer of its property to the Pullman
-

PULNI
AI'S CAR CO. v. TRANSPORTATION CO.
2

153

Opinion of the Court.

Company, the measure of damages as determined by the court
requires the master to ascertain:
"(1.) What was the value to the Central Transportation
Company in 1870 of the property transferred?
"(2.) What was earned by the Pullman Company between
January 1, 1870, and January 1, 1885, from the use of the
property transferred ?
"(3.) The difference between the amount so redeived by
the Pullman Company and the rental paid by it to the Central
Transportation Company for the above period.
"(4.) The total amount to be paid by the Pullman. Company, as of January 1,. 1885, deduced as above, together with
interest thereon from January 1, 1885, to date of final decree."
The master proceeded to determine the value in 1870 of the
property then transferred. In ascertaining it he said:
"The value of the stock on the.street is a positive indication
of the estimate placed on the property by the public. 'That
.itis not entirely a satisfactory measure of value must be
conceded, but in the judgment of the master, supported as it
is by the best independent estimate that the evidence affords,
it should be accepted as the fairest criterion of value."
He accordingly reported the value of the property when
received as $58 a share, (the par value being $50 per share or
a total par value of $2,200,000,) making the total market value
of the shares $2,552,000, which sum he reported as the value
of the property transferred.
When the report came before the court, exceptions hraving
been taken, among other things, to the findings of the value
of the property when delivered, the 'court said:
"It is the value of the property at the time it should have
been returned that the Pullman Company should be charged
with. Inasmuch as this value would be difficult of ascertainment by the transportation company except by reference to
the value in 1870, it was considered proper to direct the
inquiry to the latter date. Presumably the value increased;
.the evidence fully justifies the presumption. If it decreased,
the Pullman Company could and should have shown it. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

master's valuation in 1870 is therefore to be taken as the value
in 1885, when the property should have been returned. The
payment of this sum, with interest from January 1, 1885,
seems necessary to a just settlement, treating the value of the
use and the rents paid prir to that date as balancing each
other. A deqree may be prepared accordingly, dismissing the
exceptions and confirming, the report."
Judgment based upon the value of the property at $2,552000 on the 1st of January, 1885, with interest from that time
was therefore entered, and it amounted, as stated, to the sum
of $4,235,044.
We are -of opinion that the court erred in the manner of
ascertaining the value of the property transferred by the
Central Company. The market value of its stock was not a
proper measure of the value of the property, and such error
resulted in largely increasing the supposed value of the property which the cross-defendant was under liability to account
for.
The capital stock of this corporation had been increased
from an original amount of $200,000 in 1862 to $2,200,000 in
1870. During this time it had been doing aft increasing and
a profitable business, and it was supposed that such business
might increase in the future. The market price of the shares
of stock in a manufacturing corporation includes more than
the mere value of the property owned by it, and whatever is.
included in that price beyond and outside of the value of its
property is a factor which in a case like this cannot be taken
into donsideration in determining the liability of the crossdefendant. Whatever that something may be it is not that
kind of property which was delivered or that can be jeturned
or compensation made in lieu of its return. It is not property
at all within the meaning of the word as understood in such
a case as this. The value of the franchise for one thing enters
into the computation of market value. This was, of course,
not assigned to the Pullman Company, nor were the shares
of the capital stock of the Central Company, all of which
remained in the hands of its original owners. The probable
prospective capacity for earnings also enters largely into

PULtLMAN'S CAR CO. v. TRANSPORTATION CO.

155

Opinion of the Court.

market value, and future possible earnings again depend to a
great extent upon the skill with which the affairs of the company may be managed. -Thdse considerations, while they may
enhance the value of the shares in the market, yet do not in
fact increase the value of the 'actual property itself. They
are matters of opinion upon which persons selling and buying
the stock may have different views: A liability to return or
make compensation for property received cannot be properly
extended so as to include other considerations than those of
the actual value of that property.
In this particular case a consideration entering into the
market value of the shares must have been the probability or
possibility of renewals of the contracts owned by the company for the use of its cars upon the railroads of the companies with which it had such contracts and the possibility of
extending its business in the future under contracts with other
railroads. These considerations, while they affect more or
less the value in the market of the shares of a corporatioi, do'
not constitute the value of the property which a party impliedly promises to pay for upon the agreement being determined void under which the property was received. The
faith which a purchaser of stock in such a company has in
the ability with which the company will be managed, and
in the capacity of the company to make future earnings, may
be well or ill founded. It is- but matter of opinion which in
itself is not property. While the value of the property is one
of the material factors going to make up the market value of
the stock, yet it is plainly not the sole one. Mere speculation
has not uncommonly been known to exercise a potent influence on the market price of stock. The capacity to make
any future earnings in this case by the ldssee arose out of the
transfer of the property to it and grew out of the lease itself,
and that capacity would therefore be partly founded upon the
illegal contract and could not otherwise exist.,
As the market value of the shares of this .stock was made
up to some extent, at least, of certain factors which the lessee
cannot, under the rules of law, be held responsible for in this
case, it follows that such value cannot furnish a safe guide in

OCTOBER TERM, 1897".
Opinion of the Court.

measuring the responsibility of the lessee in an utterly void
lease. The court therefore erred in taking the market value
of the shares of this stock as a proper or just measure of the
value of the property transferred.
We must therefore take the property that actually was
transferred and determine its value in some other way than
by this resort to the market price of the stock. The property
transferred" consisted (a) of cars, bedding, etc.; (b)contracts
which the Central Company owned with railroad companies
for the use of its cars on their roads; (c) patents covering the
construction and use of sleeping cars owned by the Central
Company and by it transferred under the lease to the Pullman Company; and.(d) $17,000 in cash. It seems to us these
values must be taken separately, because, for reasons he~eafter suggested, the value of the contracts and patents does
not enter-into the problem.
As to the value of the cars. We agree with the court
below that it is now impossible to decree their r~turn, for
the reasons stated. They have substantially disappeared.
The property has become incorporated with the business and
property of the Pullman Company. Compensation therefore
must be made. The master found that the value of the cars
as vehicles, together with their equipment, at the time of the
transfer, was $710,846.50. This is probably a pretty high
figure judging from the whole evidence in the case upon that
subject, yet still we are inclined to think that the master was
justified in arriving at that sum. We take this value for the
reason that the Pullman Company agreed in the lease to keep
the cars in good order ana repair, and renewed, and reconstructed as often as might be needful during the whole term
of the loase. During the fifteen years elapsing from 1870, up
to January, 1885, no violation of the terms of the lease by
either party is complained of, and we think the whole transaction between the-parties during those fifteen years must be
treated as closed, so that no examination should be made in
regard to anything that happened within that time. We
must assume the provisions of the lease were fully carried
out by both parties, particularly as no complaints were made

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. TRANSPORTATION CO.

157

Opinion of the Court.

of non-performance. We therefore assume that the cars were
kept in good order, and -whennecessary were reconstructed and
renewed up to January, 1885. The value at'that'time may
be taken to be as great as the master found it to be for 1870.
It is very probable the assumption is not in accordance with
the fact, and that the property had greatly depreciated. But
as we refuse to look into the transactions between the parties
during that period, we will hold the value in 1885 to have
been the same as in 1870, on the presumption that the Pullman Company fulfilled its obligations between those dates.
What rule of compensation should be deduced, from such
finding will be alluded to hereafter.
We next come to consider the various contracts. They
were entered into with different railroad companies for certain definite periods, and their time of expiration was stated
in the contracts themselves. They were valuable only as they
were fised by the lessee, and its right to use them sprang from
and was determined by the lease itself. They were assigned
to the lessee for the purpose of enabling it to avail itself of
the rights therein created and to use the cars with the consent
of the railroads to which the contracts applied. Whether any
use was made of these contracts or not they became daily less
valuable as they daily neared their termination. The use
made of them did not impair their value. The passage of
time did that. The rental that was paid by the lessee included compensation for use, and to that extent the transaction was closed and the compensation paid up to the time
when the contracts themselves had expired, which was prior
to the time when the lease was declared void and payment of
rent ceased. There is no principle with which we are familiar
that will permit the value of those contracts when assigned to
the Pullman Company to enter into and form a part of the
value of the property for which the company is to make compensation, when from the nature of the thing itself, its value
necessarily, and from the simple passage of time, decreased
daily, and upon the arrival of the date named for the expiration of the contract it ceased to have any value.
We think the contracts were not extended by the legislative

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

extension of the charter of the Central Company by the act
of 1870. Some of these contracts were to last during the
corporate life of the Central Company. At the time they
were made thecharter of the company would expire in-twenty
years from December 30, 1862, or on December 30, 1882. We
do not think the contracts meant that they were to cover any
further time to which the legislature might thereafter extend
the charter of the company. Some language to that effect
would have been contained in the contracts if such had been
the meaning of the parties. All the contracts had therefore
expired by the end of 1882.
Now upon what principle can it be urged that the lessee
should compensate the lessor for the value of these contracts
when delivered to it when it had paid for the use, and the
property was of such a nature that it became valueless by
mere limitation of time? In 1885 they had gone out of
existence, and, of course, had no value. The basis for a
recovery of property or compensation for its value, in cases
of illegal agreements, rests upon the implied contract to
return it or pay for it, because there-is no right in the party
in possession to retain it. If at the time when otherwise it
would or ought to be returned it has ceased to exist by virtue
of the termination of its legal existence, how can it be returned? How can a promise to return or make compensation
-therefor be implied in the case of a contract having but a
limited time to run, and the value of which diminishes daily
until the contract itself and its value are wholly extinguished
by expiration of time, and.where the use of this intangible right
during its existence was fully paid for by the "party to whom
it was assigned? . There is no implication of a promise to
make any further compensation for such a species of property
than is made by~paying for its use while it remained in legal
existence. When that time expired the value was gone, and
while it lived- it had been paid for. We have been able to find no case where any principle wos
laid down which would authorize or justify a recovery of the
value of property at the time of delivery, which, before its
return became proper, had passed out of existence by limita-

PULLMAN'S CAR CO. v. TRANSPORTATION CO.

159

Opinion of the Court.

tion of time, and the use of which was paid for during its
lifetime.
What other contracts may have been made by the Pullman
Company with railroad companies would form no factor in
the value of the contracts assigned. If others were obtained,
they had never been the property of the Central Company,
and the latter could only make a pretence of a claim in regard
to them by virtue of and through the illegal contract. A
resort to the illegal instrument cannot be permitted for the
purpose of sustaining any recovery.
The same may be said of the patents which the Central
Company also undertook to transfer, as they had all expired
before Tanuary, 1885. They simply protected the use of the
cars which had been constructed under them, and they diminished in value as each day brought them nearer to their expiration, and when that time arrived they were absolutely
valueless. During all that time they were included in the
consideration for the payment of rent made by the Pullman
Company under the terms of the lease. The contracts and
the patents must be eliminated from the value of the property.
Nor can we accede to the, view that the Pullman Company
is liable for the earnings of the property which it realized by
-means of putting such property to the very use which the
lease provided. It had the right while both parties acquiesced to so use the property.
There is no question of trustee in the case. Root v.. Railway Company, 105 U. S. 189, 215.
The property was placed in its hands by the lessor and in
accordance with the terms of the agreement. It was not
then impressed with any trust according to any definition of
that term known to us. Although tho title did not pass and
was not intended to pass, the lessee did nothing with the
property other than was justified by the lease, His liability
is based only upon an implied promise to return or make comnpensatiorL.therefor.. This implication of a promise would not
arise until one or the other party chose to terminate the lease,
for the law implies such promise in order only that justice, so
far as possible, may be done. So long as neither party takes

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

any objection to the agreement, and both carry it out, there
is no room for any differences, and no promise to return the
property or make compensation is necessary, and none is therefore implied. The use of the property is lawful as between
the parties, so long as the lease was not, repudiated by either,
and the rent compensates for the use. After the .repudiation
the promise is then implied, and it is fulfilled by the payment
of the value of the property at the time the promise is implied
and interest thereon from that time.
As to the claim6f the lessor that its business has been
broken up, its contracts with railroads terminated and the
corporatiol left in a condition of inability to again "take up
its former plans, 'and that all this should be regarded in, the
measure-of the relief to which it should be entitled, the same
considerations which we have already adverted to must be
entertained. These are results of the illegality of the contract
entered into between these parties, and its subsequent repudiation on that ground, and in regard to such illegality the
Central Company is certainly as much in the wrong as the
cross-defendant herein. The former knew the extent of its
obligations under its charter as well as the latter did, and the
illegal provisions of the lease were quite as much its doings as
they were those of the cross-defendant. To grant relief based
upon these facts would be so clearly to grant relief to one of the
parties to an illegal contract, based upon the contract itself or
upon alleged damages arising out of its non-fulfilment, that
nothing more need be said. upon that branch of the subject.
It is emphatically an application of the rule that in such a
case the pogition of the defendant is the better.
W6"conclude that the cross-defendant is not liable for the
contracts and-patents transferred, nor for the possible damage
the Central Company may have sustained, as above stated.
It is liable'for the value of the cars, furniture, etc., transferred. It is-a liberal estimate of the value of this property
to say that it amounted in 1885 to as much as it did in 1870,
yet we are disposed to deal in as liberal a manner with the
cross-complainant as we fairly may, while not violating any
settled principle of law; in order to give to it such measure of

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. BAILEY.
Statement of the Case.

relief as the circumstances of the case seem to justify. We
therefore take the value of the property in the cars, etc., in
1885 at'the sum of $710,846.50. To that, we think, should
be added'the $17,000. cash received from the Central Company,
making a total of $727,846.50 and interest from January 1,
1885, for which the cross-defendant is liable, -together with
costs.
Although the Central Company may have been injured by
the result of this lease, yet that is a misfortune which has
overtaken it by reason of the rule of law which declares void
a lease of such a nature, and -while the company may not have
incurred any moral guilt it has nevertheless violated the law
by making an illegal contract and one which was against
public policy, and it must take such consequences as result
therefrom.
The judgment appealed from must be
Reversed and the case remitted to.the Circuit Courtfor the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania,with directions to enter
a judgmentfor the Central Transportation Company in
accordancewith this opini n.
MIR.

JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

MR. JUsTICE WHr dissented on the ground that the judgment appealed from was for the coirect amount. and should
not be reduced.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. BAILEY.
BAILEY v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF -APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Nos.390, 420. Submitted January 10, 189.-Decided May 31, 1695.

The commissioners of the District of Columbia have no power to agree to
a common law submission of a claim againt the District.

ON July 30, 1879, a contract for resurfacing with asphaltum
certain streets in the city of Washington was awarded to
voL. CLIXI-11

