OCTOBER TERAI,

1897.

Syllabus.

to each side the right to have disputed writings compared with
writings proved to the satisfaction of the judge to be genuine.
Each side was entitled to go to the jury upon the question of
the genuineness of the writing upon which the prosecution
relied to establish the guilt of the accused. It is well known
that the adjudged cases have not been in harmony touching
the rule relating to .the comparison of handwritings: and the
object of the legislature, as we may assume, was to give the
jury all the light that could be thrown upon an issue of that
character. We cannot adjudge that the accused had any
vested right in the rule of evidence which obtained prior to
the passage of the Missouri statute, nor that the rule established
by that statute entrenched upon any of the essential rights
belonging to one put on trial for a public offence.
Of course, we are not to be understood as holding that
there may not be such a statutory alteration of the fundamental rules in criminal trials as might bring the statute in
conflict with the expostfacto clause of the Constitution. If,
for instance, the statute had taken from the jury the rightto
determine the sufficiency or effect of the evidence which it
made admissible, a different question would have been presented. We mean now only to adjudge that the statute is to"
be regarded as one merely regulating procedure and may be
applied to crimes committed prior to its passage without impairing the substantial guarantees of life and liberty that are
secured to an accused by the supreme law of the land.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
Afflrmed.

BALDY v. HUNTER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
lNo. 241.

Argued April 29, 1898. -Decided

May 31, 1898.

Transactions between persons actually residing within the territory dominated by the government of the Confederate States were not invalid for
the reason only that they occurred under the sanction of the laws of
that government or of any local government recognizing Its authority.

BALDY v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.
Within such territory, the preservation of order, the maintenance of
police regulations, the prosecution of crimes, the protection of property,
the enforcement of contracts, the celebration of marriages, the settlement of estates, the transfer and descent of property, and similar or
kindred subjects, were, during the war, under the control of the local
governments constituting the so called Confederate States.
What occurred or was done in respect of such matters under the authority
of the laws of these local de facto governments should not be disregarded or held invalid merely because those governments were organized
in hostility to the Union established by the National Constitution; this,
because the existence of war between the United States and the Confederate States did not relieve those who were within the insurrectionary lines from the necessity of civil obedience, nor destroy the bonds of
society, nor do away with civil government or the regular administration of the laws, and because transactions in the ordinary course of
civil society as organized within the enemy's territory, although they
may have indirectly or remotely promoted the ends of the de facto or
unlawful government organized to effect a dissolution of the Union,
were without blame "except when proved to have been entered into
with actual intent to further invasion or insurrection."
Judicial and legislative acts in the respective States composing the so
called Confederate States should be -respected by the courts if they were
not "hostile in theirpurpose or jmode of enforcement to the authority
of the National Government, and did not impair the rights of citizens
under the Constitution."
Applying these principles to the present case, the court is of opinion that
the mere investment by Hunter, as guardian, of the Confederate funds
or.currency of his ward in bonds of the Confederate States should be
deemed a transaction in the ordinary course of civil society, and not,
necessarily, one conceived and completed with an actual intent thereby
to aid in the destruction of the Government of the Union.

THE. case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr.
Pope Barrow for plaintiff in error. -Mr.S. R. Church
and Mr. F. 1f. Stephens were on his brief.
.Atr. P. W. Meldrine for defendant in error.
MIL JUSTICE

HALT._ delivered the opinion of the court.

William H. Baldy, a citizen of Georgia, died in that State
prior to the civil war, leaving several children, one of whom
was Marianne J. Baldy who became of full age on the 21st
day of February, 1875.
In 1857 Dr. E. H. W. Hunter was appointed her guardian,

OCTOBER, TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

and after duly qualifying as such took possession of the estate
of his ward.
By an-act of.the legislature of Georgia, passed on the 16th
day of December, 1861, guardians, trustees, executors and
administrators were authorized to invest any funds held by
them in the bonds issued by the Confederate States, or in
lands and negroes-an order to that effect being first obtained
from a judge of the Superior Court, who was empowered
to consider and pass such applications, either in term time
or iacation. Georgia Laws, 1861, p. 32.
On the 25th day of April, 1863, the Superior Court of Jefferson
County, Georgia, passed an order granting leave to the guardian
of Miss Baldy to invest certain funds then in his hands in Confederate bonds. This order was granted upon the petition of
the guardian, who expressed the opinion that such funds should
be so invested. - On the same day the investment was made.
The legislature of Georgia, by an act approved March 12;
1866, No. 124, entitled "An act for the relief of administrators, executors, guardians and trustees, and for other
purposes," declared that all administrators, executors, guardians and trustees, who, in pursuance of an order, judgment
or decree of any court having jurisdiction, or of any law of
that State, bona fde invested the funds of the estate they
represented in the bonds, notes or certificates of the State
of Georgia or of the Confederate States, "be and they are,
hereby relieved from all the penalties of mismanagement,
misappropriation or misapplication of the funds of the estates
they represent, by reason of such investments;" and ihat all
administrators, executors, guardians and trustees, claiming
the benefit of the provisions of that act, should, before their
final settlement, make oath before the Ordinary of the county
in which they had theretofore rh-ade their returns, "showing
what funds of the estates they represent they have so invested,
and shall also swear that the notes, bonds or certificates, so
held by them, are the same kind of currency which they
received for the estates they so represent." Laws Georgia,
1865-66, p. 85.
On the 2d day of July, 1866, the guardian made a return

BALDY v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Courr.

to the proper court of his acts for the years 1864 and 1865,
showing the amount in his hands, and also made' oath before
the Ordinary of Jefferson County, Georgia, "that in 1863, in
pursuance of an order, judgment or decree of the Superior
Court of said county as guardian of M. J. Baldy, a minor, he
did bona fide invest twelve hundred dollars of the funds of
said minor in the eight per cent bonds of the Confederate
States, and that the bonds so held by him are the same kind
of currency which hereceived for said minor's estate."
In 1876 Hunter received from the Ordinary of Jefferson
County letters of dismissal as guardian of the several children
of William H. Baldy. He died nine years thereafter, in 1885,
and this suit was brought in 1893 against his executor in the
name of Marianne J. Baldy by her next friend, she having
become of unsound mind as far back at least as 1875, and
being at the time this suit was brought in a lunatic asylum.
At the trial below the plaintiff asked the court to instruct
the jury that "an investment by a guardian of money of his
ward during the Confederate war, and while both guardian
and ward were residing within the Confederate territory, in
bonds of the Confederate States, was unlawful, and the guardian is responsible to the ward for the sun so invested;" and
that no act of the legislature of the State "passed during the
late war, authorizing the guardian to invest the funds of his
ward in Confederate bonds, and no order of any court of the
State granted in pursuance of said act of the legislature, would
authorize such investment." Both of these instructions were
refused.
It is not contended that the case involves any question as to
the statute of limitations.
It was agreed at the trial that the only matter in issue was
as to the liability of Hunter's estate by reason of his having
invested the ward's money in 1863 in bonds of the Confederate States. This appears from the charge to the jury in
which the trial court, after observing that its duty was to follow the decisions of the Supreme Court of. Georgia, said: "In
the present case I am authorized to say that it is agreed between counsel that the investment was made bona fide, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
-Opinion

of the Court.

the only question is whether it. was lawful or unlawful for the
guardian to make this investment ; and, further, that as I may
decide the legal question, I shall instruct a verdict for plaintiff or defendant, as upon that would depend his right to have
credit for that amount in his settlement with his ward. Following the decision of the Supreme Court of Georgia, I charge
you that the investment by Dr. Hunter, the guardian, in Confederate bonds was a lawful investment. You are therefore
instructed to find a verdict for the defendant."
A verdict
was accordingly returned for the defendant.
The verdict was made the judgment of the trial court, and
that judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Georgia.
The latter court, after referring to some of its former decisions, held that "a guardian who, during the war between the
States, in good faith invested the funds of his ward in bonds
of the Confederate States, under an order of the judge of the
Superior Court properly obtained under then existing laws,
.-vas protected thereby, and is not liable to the ward for the
value of the money invested."
The case is now before this court on writ of error to the
Supreme Court of Georgia.
The plaintiff in error contends that the principles to be deduced from our former decisions require the reversal of the
judgment. As this proposition is disputed, it is necessary to
examine the cases heretofore determined by this court.
Referring to the government established in 1862 in Texas
in hostility to the United States, and which at that time was
in the exercise of the ordinary functions of administration,
this court in Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 773, said: "It is
not necessary to attempt any exact definitions within which
the acts of such a state government must be treated as valid,
or invalid. It may be said, perhaps with sufficient accuracy,
that acts necessary to peace and good order among citizens,
such, for example, as acts sanctioning and protecting marriage
and the domestic relations, governing the course of descents,
regulating the conveyance and transfer of property, real and
personal, and providing remedies for injuries to person and
estate, and other similar acts, which would be valid if emanat-

BALDY v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

ing from a lawful government, must be regarded in general
as valid when proceeding from an actual, though unlawful
government; and that acts in furtherance or support of rebellion against the United States, or intended to defeat the
just rights of citizens, and other acts of like nature, must, in
general, be regarded as invalid and void."
In Thorington v. Smith, 8 Wall. 1, 7, 10-12, the question
arose whether a contract for the payment of Confederate
notes, which was made during the civil war between parties
residing within the so called Confederate States, could be en-forced in the courts of the United States. Upon that question, which was recognized as by no means free from difficulty,
the court said: "It cannot be questioned that the Confederate notes were issued in furtherance of an unlawful attempt
to overthrow the Government of the United States by insurrectionary force. Nor is it a doubtful principle of law that
no contracts made in aid of such an attempt can be enforced
through the courts of the country whose governir qnt is thus
assailed. But, was the contract of the parties to this suit'a
contract of that character? Can it be fairly described as a
contract in aid of the rebellion?" After referring to United
States v. Rice, 4 Wheat. 246, 253, relating to the occupancy of
Castine, Maine, in the war of 1812 by the British forces, and
Fleming v. Page, 9 How. 603, 614, relating to the occupancy,
during the Mexican war, of Tampico, Mexico, by the troops
of the United States -they being described as "cases of teniporary possession of territory by lawful and regular governments at war with the country of which the territory so
possessed was part," and during which possession, the obligations of the inhabitants to their respective countries were
held to have been suspended, although not abrogated- this
court said: "The central government established for the insurgent States differed from the temporary governments at
Castine and Tampico in the circumstance that its authority
did not originate in lawful acts of regular war, but it was not,
on that account, less actual or less sfipreme. And we think
it must be classed among the governments of which these are
examples. It is to be observed that the rights and obliga-

OCTOBER TERM, 189Z
Opinion of the Court.

tions of a belligerent were conceded to it, in its military
character, very soon after the war began, from motives of
humanity and exlediency by the United States. The whole
territory controlled by it was thereafter held to be the enemies' territory, and the inhabitants of that territory were
held, in most respects, for enemies. To the extent, then, of
actual supremacy, however unlawfully gained, in all matters
of government within its military lines, the power of the
insurgent government cannot be questioned. That supremacy did not justify acts of hostility to the United States.
How far it should excuse them must be left to the lawful
government upon the reestablishment of its authority. But
it made obedience to its authority, in civil and local matters,
not only a necessity, but a duty. Without such obedience
civil order was impossible. It was by this government exercising its power throughout an immense territory, that the
Confederate notes were issued early in the war, and these
notes in a short time became almost exclusively the currency
of the insurgent States. As contracts in themselves, except
in the contingency of successful revolution, those notes were
nullities; for, except in that event, there could be no payer.
They bore, indeed, this character upon their face, for they
were made payable only ' after the ratification qf a treaty of
peace between the Confederate States and the United States
of America.' While the war lasted, however, they had a
certain contingent value, and were used as money in nearly
all the business transactions of many millions of people.
They must be regarded therefore as a currency, imp6sed on
the community by irresistible force. It seems to follow as
a necessary consequence from this actual supremacy of the
insurgent government, as a belligerent, within the territory
where it circulated, and from the necessity of civil obedience
on the part of all who remained in it, that this currency must
be considered in courts of law in the same light as if it had
been issued by foreign government temporarily occupying a
part of the territory of th6 United States. Contracts stipulating for payments in this currency cannot be regarded for
that reason only as made in aid of the foreign invasion in the

3ALDY v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

one case, or of the domestic insurrection in the other. They.
have no necessary relations to the hostile government,
whether invading or insurgent. They are transactions in the
ordinary course of civil society, and though they may indirectly and remotely promote the ends of the unlawful government, are without blame, except when proved to have been
entered into with actual intent to further invasion or insurrection. We cannot doubt that such contracts should be enforced in the courts of the United States; after the restoration
of peace, to the extent of their just obligation."
In Delmas v. Insurznce Co., 14 Wall. 661, 665, upon writ
of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, one of the questions presented was whether a judgment, which was otherwise conceded to be a valid prior lien for the party in whose
favor it was rendered, was void because the consideration of
the contract on which the judgment was rendered was Confederate money. This court said: "This court has decided,
in the case of Thorington. v. Smith, 8 Wall. 1, that a contract
was not void because payable in Confederate money.; and
notwithstanding the apparent division of opinion on -this question in the. case of Ranauer v. TMoodruf, 10 Wall. 482, we
are of opinion that on the general principle announced in
Thorington v. Smith, the notes of the Confederacy actually
circulating as money at the time the contract was made may
constitute a valid consideration for such contract." So, in
Planters' Bank v. tniom Bank, 16 Wall. 483, 499, it was a
question whether Confederate treasury notes had and received
by the defendants for. the use of the plaintiffs were a sufficient
consideration for a promise, expressed or implied, to pay anything; and it was held upon the authority of Tkorington v.
Smith, above cited, that "a promise to pay in Confederate
notes, in consideration of the receipt of such notes and of
drafts payable by them, cannot be considered a nudum pacturn or an illegal contract."
horn v. -Locklart,17 Wall. 570, 573, 575, 580, was a suit
for an accounting as to funds in the hands of an executor, and
to enforce the payment to legatees of their respective shares.
One of the questions in the case was whether the defendant'

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

-was entitled to credit for a certain sum in Confederate notes
which, in March, 1864, he had deposited "as executor in the
Confederate States Depository Office, at Selma, Alabama,
and received a certificate entitling him to Confederate States
four per cent bonds to that amount." The-recoiving of money
by the executor in Confederate notes, and the investment of
such notes in Confederate bonds, were, it was said, in strict
accordance with laws passed by the legislature of Alabama in
November, 1861, and November, 1863, when that State was
engaged in rebellion against the United: ,States. The Circuit
Court held that the executor could not exonerate himself from
liability for the balance adjudged to be due the legatees by
paying the same in Confederate bonds; that, as a general
. rule, all transactions, judgments and decrees which took place
in conformity with existing laws in the Confederate States
between the citizens thereof during the late war, "except such
aswere*directly in aid of the rebellion, ought to stand good;"
and that the exception of such transactions was a political
necessity required by the dignity of the Government of the
United States and by every principle of fidelity to the Constitution and laws of our common countiy. Upon these grounds
it adjudged that the deposit by the executor of money of the
estate in a depository of the Confederate States could not be
sustained, as it was a direct contribution to the resources of
the Confederate government. The decree, therefore, was
that the executor should pay to plaintiff the sum so deposited
by him in lawful money of the United States. Upon appeal
the decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed, three of the
members of this court dissenting. This court said: "We
admit that the acts of. the several States in their individual
capacities, and of their different departments of government,
executive, judicial and legislative, during the war, so far as
they did not impair or tend to impair the supremacy of the
national authority, or the just rights of citizens under the
Constitution, are, in general, to be treated as valid and binding. The existence of a state of insurrection and war did not
loosen the bonds of society, or do away with civil government, or the regular administration of the laws. Order was
/

BALDY v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

to be preserved, police regulations maintained, crime prosecuted, property protected, contracts enforced, marriages celebrated, estates settled, and the transfer and descent of property
regulated precisely as in time of peace. No one that we are
'aware of seriously questions the validity of judicial or legislative acts in the fisurrectionary States touching these and
kindred subjects, where they were not hostile in their _pur.ose or mode of enforcement to the authority of the :National
Government, and did not impair the rights of citizens under
the Constitution. The validity of the action of the probate
court of Alabama in the present case in the settlement of the
accounts of the executor we do. not question, except so far as
it approves the investment of funds received by him in Cohfederate bonds, and directs payment to the. legatees of their
distributive shares in those bonds. Its action in this respect
was an absolute nullity, and can afford no protection to the
executor in the courts of the United States."
In the Confederate NSote case, 19 Wall. 548, 555-557, in
which it was held that parol evidence was admissible to prove
that the word "dollars" in a contract made during the civil
war meant, in fact, Confederate notes, the court said: "The
treasury notes of the Confederate government were issued
early in the war, and, though never made a legal tender, they
soon, to a large extent, took the place of coin in the insurgent
States. Within a short period they became the principal currency in which business in its multiplied forms was there transacted. The simplest purchase of food in the market, as well
as the largest dealings of merchants, were generally made in
this currency. Contracts thus made, not designed to aid the
insurrectionary government, could not, therefore, without
manifest injustice to the parties, be treated as invalid between
them. Hence, in Thorington v. Smith this court enforced a
contract payable. in these notes, treating them as a currency
imposed upon the community by a government of irresistible
force. As said in a later case, referring to this decision, ' It
would have been a cruel and oppressive judgment, if all the
transactions of the many millions of people composing the inhabitants of the insurrectionary States, for the several years

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

of the war,' had been held tainted with illegality because of
the use of this forced currency, when those transactions were
not made with reference to the insurrectionary government.'
. Hanauer v. lMood'2ff, 15 Wall. 448." Again.: "When the
war closed, these notes, of course, became at once valueless
and ceased to be current, but contracts made upon their purchasable quality, and in which they were designated as dollars,
existed in great numbers. It was at once evident that great
injustice would in many cases be done to parties if the terms
used were interpreted only by reference to the coinage of the
United States or their legal tender notes, instead of the standard adopted by the parties. The legal standard and the conventional. standard differed, and justice to the parties could
only be done by allowing evidence of the sense in which they
used the terms, and enforcing the contracts thus interpreted."
SPrott v. United States, 20 Wall. 459, 460, 462, was a suit
against the Government in the Court of Claims under the
Captured and- Abandoned Property Act of March 12, 1863,
c. 120, 12 Stat. 820, one of the provisions of which was that
a claimant, before being entitled to recover the proceeds of
the property, must prove that he had never given aid or com-fort to the rebellion. "It appeared that the cotton in question
was sold to the claimant by an agent of the Confederate Stat~s
as "cotton belonging to the Confederate States, and it was
understood by the claimant at the time of the purchase to be
the property of the rebel government, and was purchased as
such." After observing that the cotton had been in the possession .and under the control of the Confederate government,
with claim of title, and that it was taken by. the Union forces
during the last days of the existence of that government, sold,
and the proceeds deposited in the Treasuiy, this court said:
"The claimant now asserts a right to this money on the
ground that he was the owner of the cotton when it was so
captured. This claim of right or ownership he must prove
in the Court of Claims. He attempts to do so by showing that
he purchased it of the Confederate government and paid them
for it-in money. In doing this he gave aid and assistance to
the rebellion in the most. efficient manner he possibly could.

BALDY v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

He could not have aided that cause more acceptably if he had
entered its service and become a blockade runner, or under
the guise of a privateer had preyed upon the unoffending commerce of his country. It is asking too much of a court of law
sitting under the authority of the Government then struggling
for existence against a treason respectable only for the number and the force by which it was supported, to hold that one
of its own citizens, owing and acknowledging to it allegiance,
can by the proof of such a transaction establish a title to the
property so obtained. The proposition that there is in many
cases a public policy which forbids courts of justice to allow
any validity to contracts because of their tendency to affect
injuriously the highest public interests, and to undermine or
destroy the safeguards of the social fabric, is too well settled
to admit of dispute. That any person owing allegiance to an
organized government, can make a contract by which, for the
sake of gain, he contributes most substantially and knowingly
to the vital necessities of a treasonable conspiracy against its
existence, and then in a court of that Government base successfully his rights on such a transaction, is opposed to all that
we have learned of the invalidity of immoral contracts. A
clearer case of turpitude in the consideration of a contract can
hardly be imagined unless treason be taken out of the catalogue -of crimes." The court further said: "The recognition
of the existence and the validity of the acts of the so *called
Confederate government, .and that of the States which yielded
a.temporary support to that government, stand on very different grounds, and are governed by very different considerations.
The latter, in most, if not in all, instances, merely transferred
the existing state organizations to the support of a neiv and
different national head. The same constitutions, the same
laws for the prote6tion of property and personal rights remained, and were administered by the same officers. These
laws, necessary in their recognition and administration to the
existence of organized society, were the same, with slight exceptions, whether the authorities of the State acknowledged
allegiance to the true or the false Federal power. They were
the fundamental principles for which civil society is organized

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

into government in all countries, and must be respectdd in
their administration under whatever temporary dominant authority they may be exercised. It is only when in the use of
these powers substantial aid and comfort was given or intended
to be given to the rebellion, when the functions necessarily reposed in the State for the maintenance of civil society were perverted into the manifest and intentional aid of treason against
the Government of -the Union, that their acts are void."
From these cases it may be deduced That the transactions between persons actually residing
within the territory dominated by the government of the
Confederate -States were not invalid for the reason only that
they occurred under the sanction of the laws of that government or of any local government recognizing its authority;
That, within such territory, the preservation of order, the
maintenance of police regulations, the prosecution of crimes,
the protection of property, the enforcement-of contracts, the
celebration of marriages, the settlement of estates, the transfer and descent of property, and similar or kindred subjects,
were, during the war, under the control of the local governments constituting the so called Confedefate States;
That what occurred: or was done in respect of such matters
under the authority of the laws of these local defacto governments should not be disregarded or held to be invalid merely
because those governments were organized in hostility to the
Union established by the national -Constitution; this, because
the existence of war-between the United States and the Confederate States did- not relieve those who were within the
insurrectionary lines from the necessity of civil obedience,
nor destroy the bonds of society, nor do away with civil
government or the regular administration of the laws, and
because- transactions in the ordinary courst of civil society
as organized within the enemy's territory, although they may
have indirectly or remotely promoted the ends of the de facto
or unlawful government organized to effect a dissolution of
the Union, were without blame "except when proved to have"
been entered into with actual intent to further invasion or
insurrection;" and, _

BALDY v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

That judicial and legislative acts in the respective States
composing the so called Confederate States should be respected by the courts if they were not ." hostile in their pur.poseor mode of enforcement to the authority of the National
Government, and did not impair the rights of citizens inder
the Constitution."
Applying these principles to the case before us, we are of
opinion that the mere investment by Hunter, as guardian,
of the Confederate funds or currency of his ward in bonds
of the Confederate States should be deemed a transaction in
the ordinary course of civil society, and not, necessarily, one
conceived and completed with an actual intent thereby to aid
in the destruction of the Government of the Union. If' contracts between parties resident within the lines of the insurrectionary States, stipulating for payment in Confederate
notes issued in furtherance of the scheme to overturn' the
uthority of the United States within the territory dominated
by the Confederate States, were not to be regarded, for that
reason only, as invalid, it is difficult to perceive why a different principle should be applied to the investment by a
guardian of his ward's Confederate notes or currency in Confederate bonds-both 'guardian and ward residing at that
time, as they did from the commencement of the civil war,
within the Confederate lines and under subjection to the
Confederate States.
As to the question of the intent with which this investment
was made, all doubt is removed by the agreement of the
parties at the trial that the investment was bond fide, and
that the only question made was as to its legality. We
interpret this agreement as meaning that the guardtian had
in view only the best financial interests of the ward in the
situation in which both were placed, and that he was not
moved to make the investment with the purpose in that way
to obstruct the United States in its efforts to suppress armed
rebellion. We are unwilling to hold that the mere investment in Confederate States bonds- no actual intent to impair
the rights of the United States appearing- was illegal as
between the guardian and ward.
VOL. CLXX-26

OCTOBER TER4, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

It is said, however, that any such conclusion is inconsistent
with the decision in Lamar v. Micou, 112 U. S. 452, 476. That
was a suit in the Circuit Court of ihe United States for the
Southern District of New York, having been removed thereto
from the Supreme Court of that State. One of the questions
arising in that case was as to the liability of a guardian for
moneys belonging to his Wards which were invested by him
during the civil war in bonds of the Confederate States.
This court said: "Other moneys of the wards in Lamar's
hands, arising, either 'from dividends which he had received
on their, behalf or from interest with which he charged himself upon sums not invested, were used in the purchase of
bonds of the Confederate States, and of the State of Alabama. The investment in bonds of the Confederate States
was clearly, unlawful, and no legislative act or judicial decree or decision of any State could justify it.
The so
called Confederate government was in no sense a lawful
government, but was a mere government of force, having
its origin and foundation in rebellion against the United
Stattes. The notes and bonds issued in its name and for its
support had no legal value as money or property, except by
agreement or acceptdnce of parties 'capable of contracting
with each other, and can never be regarded by a court sitting
under the authority of the United States as securities in
which trust funds might be lawfully invested. TIorington v.
S'mitA, 8 Wall. 1; Head v. Starke, Chase, 312; Born v. Lockhart, 17 Wall. 570; Confederate Note case, 19 Wall. 548;
S9prott r. United States, 20 Wall. 459; Fretz v. Stover, 22 Wall.
'198 ;-Alexander v., Bryan, 110 U. S.414. An infant has no
capacity by contract with his guardian, or by assent to his
unlawful acts to affect his own rightg. The case is governed
in-this particular by the decision in Horn v. Lockhart, in
which it was held that an executor was not discharged from
his liability to legatees by having invested funds, pursuant to.
a statute of the State, and with the approval of the probate
court by which he had been appointed, in bonds of the Confederate States, which became worthless in his hands."
It was, of course, intended that this language of the court

BALDY v. HUNTER.
Opinion of the Court.

be taken in connection with the history- of- the guardian's
transactions as disclosed in the full and careful statement of
the case that preceded the opinion. It appears from that
statement that the guardian was appointed prior to the war
by the Surrogate of Richmond County, New York, in which
State he, at that time, 1855, regided; that immediately upon
his appointment he received, in New York, several thousand
dollars belonging to each of his wards, and invested part of
it in 1856 in the stock of a New York bank and a part in
1807 in the stock of a Georgia bank, each bank then paying
good annual dividends; that in 1861 he had a temporary residence in New York; that upon the breaking out of the rebellion he removed all his property and voluntarily left New
York, passing through the lines to Savannah where he took
up his residence, sympathizing with the rebellion and doing
all that was in his power to accomplish its success, until January, 1865; and that he took up his residehce again in New
York in 1872 or 1873, after which time he lived in that city.
It further appeared that of the money of his wards accruing
from bank stocks he, in 1862, invested $700.0 in bonds of the
Confederate States and of the State of Alabama, and afterwards sold the Alabama bonds and invested the proceeds in
Confederate States' bonds. It thus appears that Lamar v.
3licou was a case in which the guardian, becoming such
under the laws of New York, in violation of his duty to the
country, and after the war became flagrant, voluntarily went
into the Confederate lines, and there gave aid and comfort to
the rebellion ; and yet he asked that the investment of his
wards' money in Confederate States bonds receive the sanction of the courts sitting in the State under the authority of
whose laws he'became and acted as guardian.
Besides, it is distinctly stated in the opinion in that case
that the sums which Lamar used in the purchase of bonds of
the Confederate States were moneys of the wards in his
hands "arising either from dividends which he had received
in their behalf, or from interest with which he charged himself upon sums not invested," 112 U. S. 476, which is a very
different thing from reinvesting (as in the present case) in

"OOTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus

Confederate currency moneys previously received in tle like
kind of currency. The present case is governed by considerations that do not apply to that case. We do not doubt the
correctness of- the decision in Lamar v. kicou, upon its facts
as set out in the report of that case; but we hold, in the
present case, for the-reasons'we have stated, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia must be
Afflrmed.

KING v., 31dLLINS.
-ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 15 . Argued March 22, 23, 1898 -Decided

May 31,1898.

The system established by the State of West Virginia, under which lands
liable to taxation are forfeited to the State by reason of the owner not
having them placed or ciused to be placed, during five consecutive years,

on the proper land books for taxation, and caused htmielf to be charged
with-the taxes thereon, and under which, on petition required to be filed
by the representative of the State in the proper Circuit Court, such lands
are sold for the benefit of the school fund, with liberty to the owner,
upon due notice of the'proceeding, to intervene by petition and secure a
redemption of his lands from the- forfeiture declared by paying the
taxes and charges due upon them, is not inconsistent with the due process of -law required by the Constitutidn - of the United States or the
constitution of the-State.
As neither the'plaintiff nor those under whom he claims title availed themselves of the remedy provided by the statutes of West Virginia for
removing the-forfeiture arising from the fact that, during the years 1884,
1885, 1886, 1887 and 1888, the lands in question were'not charged on the
proper land books with the state taxes thereon for that period or any
part thereof, the forfeiture of such lands to the State was not displaced
or discharged, and the Circuit Court properly directed the jury to find a
verdict for the defendants. The plaintiff was entitled to recover only on
the strength of his own title. Whether the defendants had a good title
-or.not the plaintiff had no such interest in or claim to the lands as
enabled him to maintain this action of ejectment.
Reusens v: Lawson, 91 Virginia, 226, approved and- followed to the point
that "In an action of ejectment the plaintiff must recover on the strength
of his own title, and if it appear that the legaltitle is in afiother, whether
that other be the defendant, the Commonwealth, or some third person,

