OCTOBER -TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

FAXON v. UNITED STATES.
'APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.

INo.

119. Argued March 18,-1898. -Decided

May 81, 1898..

In order to the confirmation of any claim, the Court of Private Land
Claims, under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat. 854, creating
that tribunal, must be satisfied not merely of the regularity in form of
the proceedings, but that the official body or person, assuming to make
the grant, was vested with authority, or that the exercise of power, if
unwarranted, was subsequently lawfully ratified; and the same rule applies to this court on appeal.
The Court of Private Land Claims held, in this case, that if the lands which
are the subject of controversy belonged to the class of temporalities, It
was clear that the treasurer of the department had no power to make a
sale by his sole authority, whether the value exceeded five hundred dollars or not; and if the lands did not belong to that class, nevertheless,
there was the same want of power under the laws of Mexico in relation
to the disposition of the public domain.' 'This court; concurring with
the Court of Private Land Claims, further holds that this Is not a case
in which the sale and grant.can be'treated as validated by presumption.

THREE. separate petitions were filed in the Court of Private
Land Claims for*the confirmation of what Avas commonly
called and known as the Tumacdcori, Calabazas and Huebabi
grant, situated in the valley of the Santa Cruz River, Pima.
County, Arizona, the petitioners in each claiming under the
original grantee. The causes were consolidated and tried
under-the petition of William Faxon, Jr., trustee, and others.
The petition alleged that the claimants were the owners in
fee of the tract of land in question under -and by virtue, of a
certain instrument in writing, dated April 19, 1844, "made
and executed by the treasury department of Sonora in compliance with the law of the Mexican Congress of the 10th of
February, 1842,-providing for the denouncement and sale of
abandoned pueblos," runmino to Don Francisco Alejo Aguilar,
to whom said treasury department sold the tract April 18,
1844, for the sum of five hundred dollars.
That in the year 1806, the governor of the Indian pueblo

FAX01N v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

of Tumacdcori petitioned Don Alejo Garcia Conde, intendente
of the province, etc., etc., to issue to the Indians of the pueblo
a grant of lands for the "fundo legal" and also for the "estancia" of the pueblo to replace ancient title papers Which
had been lost or destroyed; that in accordance with that petition the lands mentioned were ordered to be surveyed, which
was done, and the boundary monuments established, by Don
Manuel de Leon, commandante of the presidio of Tubac; that
on April 2, 1807, the said intendant Conde issued a' royal
patent or title to the Indians of the pueblo of Tumaccori for
the lands, as set forth in the proceedings of the survey thereof
and in the copy of the original 6xpediente.
That under the law of the Mexican Congress of February
10, 1812, Don Francisco Aguilar, on April 18, 1844-, became
the owner by purchase, as before mentioned, "of the four
square leagues of ag:icultura and grazing l/nds of the ' fundo
legal' of the abandoned pueblo of Tumacdcori and the sitibs
of the estancia (stocl farm) of Calabazas,. and the other places
thereunder pertaining." It was averred that all the steps and
proceedings in the matter of the grant and sale were regular,.
complete and legal and vested'a-complete and valid title in
fee in the grantee; and that the grantee at the time went
into actual possession, use and- occupation of the grant and
erected the. proper monuments thereon, and that he and his
legal representatives have continued ever since and- until the
present time in the actual possession, use and occupation of
ihe same, and are now possessed and seized in fee thereof.
The United States answered alleging that the alleged sale
to Aguilar was without warrant or authority of law and void;
that, if these lands had been theretofore granted to the
pueblo of Tumacdcori, they were abandoned about 1820, and
by virtue thereof became public lands; that the title to said
property, if any passed in 1807, was purely usufructuary, and
vested no estate, legal or equitable, in the said pueblo or
mission, but that the same and the right of disposition were
rpserved to and remained in the national government.
The answer denied that Aguilar became the owner by purchase or otherwise of any lands included in the alleged grant

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

of 1807 to the pueblo, or of any land of that mission or its
dependencies; that the alleged grant was ever located and
recorded as provided by the sixth article of the treaty of
Mesilla (Gadsden purchase); that the original grantee or
grantees were ever owners of the property as against the Republic of Mexico, or are now the owners thereof as against
the United States or.its grantees; that the grantee Aguilar,
in.the year-of 1844, went into actual possession and occupation of the grant, and erected monuments thereon, or that he
and his representatives have continued ever since in.the actual
possession, use andoccupation of the same.
The answer averred that the proceedings for sale were
never taken under the express order or approval of the geteral.government, and never submitted to said general government for ratification or approval ; that the lands claimed far
exceeded th6se contained'in the original survey; that-the sale
was by quantity and limited; and that the alleged grant was
so indefinite and uncertain as to description as to carry no
title to any land.
On the hearing the testimonios of the grants of 1807 and of
1844 were put in evidence. Evidence was adduced to the
effect that-Aguilar, the original grantee, never took or had
possession of the lands; that he was the brother in law of
Manuel Maria Gandara, who was the governor of Sonora in
1842, and in 1845 to 1853, except a few months; to whom.
Aguilar conveyed in 1856, and, more formally, in 1869; that
Gandara was in possession in 1852, 1853, 1854 and 1855,
through his herdsmen ; and that, as contended by counsel for
petitioner, the money for the purchase was furnished by Gandara, and Aguilar took the title as trustee for him. Apparently the ea!pedientes were not in the archives, nor wa' there.
any note of the grant in the book of toma de razon for 1844.
A translation of the titulo of 1844 is given in the margin.'
I Treasury of the Department of Sonora, 1844.
Title of sale, transfer and adjudication of agricultural lands which Include
the four leagues of the fundo legal of the deserted pueblo of Tumaccori
and the two sitios of its estancia (stock ranch) of Calabazas and the
other places thereto annexed, the same being situated in the jurisdiction

FAXON v. UNITED STATES.

247

Statement of the Case.

The Court of Private Land Claims rejected the claim on
the ground that the sale in question was void for want of
power on the part of the officer attempting to make it.
of the District of San Ignacio, issued by the said departmental Treasury
in compliance with the supreme decree of the 10th of February, 1842, in
favor of Don Francisco Alejandro Aguilar, a resident of the port and
village of San Fernando de Guaymas.
Second Seal.
Seal.
Four Dollars.
Eighteen hundred and forty-four and eighteen hundred and forty-five.
Ignacio Lopez, captain of cavalry retired to the infantry,.'honorary intendant of the army and treasurer of the Department of Sonora.
Whereas the supreme decree of February 10, 1842, provides for the sale.
on account of the critical condition of.the public treasury, of the properties
pertaining to the department of temporalities, of which class are the farming lands and the lands for breeding cattle and horses respectively of the
four leagues of the townsite of the depopulated town of Tumachcori and
the two sitios of the stock farm of the same at the points of Huebabi,
Potrero, Cerro de San Cayetano and Calabazas, whose areas, boundaries,
monuments and coterminous tracts are stated in the coiresponding proceedings of survey executed in the year 1807 by the commissioned surveyor,
Don Manuel de Leon, veteran ensign and late commandant of the presidio
of Tubac, according to the information obtained in relation thereto at the
instance of this departmental Treasury, said temporal farming and grazing
lands being valued in the'sum of five hundred dollars, .as provided in article
2d of the aforesaid supreme decree of February 10, 1842; and complying
punctually therewith I have ordered the formation of the corresponding
expediente by the Court of First Instance and of .the Treasury of the District of San Ignacio, during which proclamations (pregones) no bidder
appeared; therefore, and in compliance with article 73 of the law of April
17, 1837, as the sale in question on account of the national Treasury does
not exceed five hundred dollars, this said Treasury proceeded to the public
sale of the aforementioned lands of the depopulated Tumactcori and the
lands of its stock farm, Calabazas, and other annexed points, all belonging
to the department of temporalities, on the 16th, 17th and 18th of the current
month of April, in solicitation of bidders, without there being any other
than Don Francisco Alejandro Aguilar, a merchant and resident of this
port and village of San Fernando de Guaymas, for said sum of five hundred dollars, the appraised value at which said temporalities have been sold,
as appears from the third and last offer, which literally is as follows:
"Third Seal.
One dollar.
Years 1844 and 1845.
"In the port and village of San Fernando de Guaymas, on the eighteenth
of April, eighteen hundred and forty-four, I, the undersigned, departmental
Treasurer, being in the office of this Treasury under my charge, with my attendant witnesses, Don Jose Maria Mendoza and Don Vicente Irigoyen, in
the absence of a Notary of the Treasury and of a Notary Public, in compi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Parties.

Mr. FrancisJ. Hehey for appellant.
Mr. Special Assistant Miatthew G. Reynolds for appellees..
M'. Solicitor General was on his brief.
ance with the provisions of Articld 73 of the law of April 17, 1837, since
the price or value of the temporafities to which these proceedings relate do
not exceed five hundred dollars, ordered that the third and last offer be made
for the final sale of the temporal lands of Tumacicori and Calabazas referred
to in this expediente and that tothat end a proclamation be made to the public
at the sound of the drum, as, in effect, the public crier, Florentino Baldizan,
made in a high and clear-voice, saying:. 'The Treasury of the Department is
going to sell, on account of the national Treasury and in accordance with the
supreme decree of February 10, 1842, the agricultural lands and lands for
raising cattle and horses which comprise the four leagues of the townsite
of the depopulated town of Tumachcori and the two sitios of the depopulated
stock farm of the same at the points of Huebabi, Potrero, Cerro de San
Cayetano and Calabazas, situated in the District of San Ignacio, the areas,
monuments, boundaries and coterminous tracts of which are stated in the
corresponding-proceedings of survey executed ii the year 1807 by the commissioned surveyor, Don Manuel de Leon, veteran Ensign and late Commandant of the presidio of Tubac, as appears from the information obtained at'
the instance of said departmental Treasury, from which it- also appears
that the original titles of grant and confirmation of said temporalities still
exist, which temporalities have now been valued at five hundred dollars in
accordance with Article 2d of said supreme decree of February 10, 1842.
"Whoever desires to make a bid come forward and make it to this departmental Treasury, where it will be received in conformity with the laws, with
the understanding that the final sale is to be-made now to whomever should
be the highest bidder."
In which act Don Francisco Alexandro Aguilar, a merchant and resident
of this port, appeared and made the bid of five hundred dollars, at which said
temporalities are appraised; and no- other bidder having appeared and the
hour for midday praydr of this day having already struck, the public crier
finally said: "Once, twice, three times; sold, sold, sold; may it do good,
good, g6od to Don Francisco Alejandro Aguilar."
. In these terms this act was concluded, the aforesaid farming lands and
lands for raising cattle and horses of the depopulated townsite and stock
farm of the temporalities of Tumacftcori and Calabazas being publicly and
solemnly sold to Don Francisco Alexandro Aguilar, a merchant and resident
of this port, for the sum of five hundred dollars.
And in due witness thereof and for the usual purposes these proceedings
were closed and entered and t signed them together with the party in interest and my undersigned attendant witnesses.
Witness: JoSE MARIA M'VNDOZA.
IGN.AcIO LopEz.
Witness: VICENTE IRIGOYEN.

FRANcisco A. AGUILAR.

FAXON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mit. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the 6ase as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

In order to the confirmation of any claim, the Court of
In which legal terms was concluded the sale of the farming lands and
lands for raising cattle and horses, which comprise the four leagues of the
depopulated townsite of Tumacfcori and tlie two sitios of its stock farm,
Calabazas, and. other annexed points, all temporalities, situated In the
jurisdiction of the District of San Ignacio, the original expediente remaining
deposited In the archives of this Treasury as perpetual evidence, with the
understanding that when the original titles of Tumacdcori and Calabazas
are obtained, they shall be aggregated to the present one.
Whereas the agricultural lands and lands for raising cattle and horses,
which comprise the four leagues of the depopulated town of Tumaccort
and the two sitios'of its stock farm of Calabazas and other annexed points,
all temporalities, in the jurisdiction of the District of San Ignacio, have
been sold to Don Francisco Alejandro Aguilar, a resident and merchant of
this port, for the sum of five hundred dollars, which sum together with the
others pertaining to the Treasury, he has paid into this departmental
Treasury, I, therefore, in use of the powers the laws on the matter, as also
the supreme decree of the 10th of February, 1842, conceded to me, by the
present title and in the name of the Mexican Nation and of the Supreme
Government formally cede, sell, give and adjudicate the said farming.lands
and lands for raising cattle and horses, which comprise the four leagues of
the depopulated towusite of Tumachcori and the two sitios of its stock
farm of Calabazas and other annexed points already mentioned to the said
purchaser, Don Francisco Alejandro Aguilar, by way of sale, and with all
the qualities, solemnities, firmness and subsistence the law establishes, for
himself, his heirs, children and successors, with all their entrances, exits,
lands, timber, groves, shrubs, pastures, centres, circumferences, waters,
springs, watering places, uses, customs, servitudes and other things pertaining to said possessions, with their enclosures, metes and bounds for
the sum of five hundred dollars, at which they have been sold to said
Francisco Alejandro Aguilar, with the precise condition that the said buyer,
and his successors in their case, are to maintain the above mentioned agricultural lands and lands for raising cattle and horses that comprise the four
leagues of the depopulated townsite of Tumaccori and the two sitios of its
stock farm of Calabazas populated, possessed, cultivated and protected,
without passing beyond their metes and bounds and without their being
totally abandoned; with the'understanding that if the said abandonment
and depopulation of said farming and grazing lands should take place for
the space of three consecutive years, by the neglect or fault of their
owners or possessors and there should be any person who denounces them,
in such event after verification of the fact, they shall be declared public lands

OGTOBER TERN, 189.
Opinion of the Court.

Private Land Claims, under the act creating that tribunal
(26 Stit. 854, c. 539,) must be satisfied not merely of the
regularity in form of the proceedings, but that the official
body or person assuming to make the grant was vested with
and shall be sold at public sale, on-'account of the National-Treasury,. to
whomever should be the highest bidder, excepting, as is just, those cases
where the abandonment, depopulation or lack of protection are on account
of the notorious invasion or hostilities of enemies or epidemics or other
like causes, and' only for the period or periods of such occurrences, cautioning as the aforesaid Don Francisco Alejandro Aguilar. and his successors
are strictly cautioned'that they are to restrict themselves to the belongings,,
metes and bounds of the aforesaid agricultural and grazing lands of the
townsite of Tumac[cori and its stock farm of Calabazas, constructing and
maintaining on said possessions the. necessary monuments of stone and
mortar under the penalties established by the laws in case of neglect.
And with the powers, which they and the divers superior provisions
that govern the matter, concede and confer on me, I order and require
repectively of the Judges, Justices and. local authorities that at present are
and shall hereafter be in the District of San Ignacio, that, for the sake of
the good and prompt administration of justice and in observance of the
aforesaid legal provisions they do not permit the said Francisco Alejandro
Aguilar nor his successors to be, in any manner, disturbed, annoyed or
molested in the free use, exercise, property, dominion and possession of
the said agricultural lands and lands . for raising cattle and horses of the
townsite of Tumaccori and stock farm of Calabazas, but rather shall
watch and see with the greatest efficacy that they are always protected and
maintained in the quiet and peaceable 15ossession to which they are
entitled by legitimate right, so 'that, in this manner, they may freely have
the benefit of, enjoy, possess, sell, exchange, barter, donate, transfer, devise,
cede and 'alienate the aforesaid agricultural lands and lands for raising
cattle and horses of the four leagues of the townsite of Tumachcori and
its stock farm, Calabazas," and other annexed points, at their free arbitrament and election, as absolute owners and proprietors of said possessions,
-with the understanding also that just as soon as the original titles of said
agricultural and grazing lands are obtained they shall be aggregated to the
present ones, and the transmittal and delivery of said original documents
are considered as made and verified from this moment in favor of said
party in interest, Don Francisco Alejandro Aguilar.
In which terms I have issued this title of formal sale; transfer and
adjudication to said Mr. Aguilar, his, heirs and successors, delivering it to
the former for his security and other convenient uses, after entry thereof
in the proper place.
Given in the port and village of San Fernando de Guaymas, on the nineteenth day of the 'month of April, eighteen hundred and forty-four, authenticated and signed by me, the Treasurer of the Department, sealed with the

FAXON' v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

authority, or that the exercise of power, if unwarranted, was
subsequently lawfully ratified; and the same rule applies to
this court on appeal. Hayes v. United States, 170 U. S. 637;
EIly's Administrator v. United States, ante, 220.
The .titulo shows that Ignacio Lopez, treasurer of the department of Sonora, assumed to make the sale and grant of
the lands in question, in the exercise of sole authority, ex
oficio, under the decree of February 10, 1842, and article 73
of the law of April 17, 1837, as being property "pertaining
to the department of temporalities," the value whereof did
not exceed five hundred dollars. He -asserted the power to
determine, alone, that the lands were of the temporalities;
that their value was not over five hundred dollars; and to sell
and grant them independently of other officials than himself.
The Court of Private Land Claims held that if the lands
belonged to the class of temporalities it was clear that the
treasurer of the department had no power to make a sale by
his sole authority, whether the value exceeded five hundred
dollars or not; .and if the lands did not belong to that class,
nevertheless there was the same want of power under the laws
of Mexico in relation to the disposition of the public domain.
Many of the laws in this regard have been set forth in
United States v. Coe, 170 U. S. 681; Eayes v. United States,
supra; Ely's Administratorv. United States,supra; and other
cases, and the statement of so much thereof as particularly
bears on the matter in hand involves some repetition.
By the law of January 26, 1831, a general department of
revenues was established, under whose control all branches of
the treasury were placed, except the general administratiori
of the mail and of the mint. A general director and three
auditors were provided for, to be appointed by the government, and the general department was divided into three secseal which this Treasury uses, before my undersigned attendant witnesses,
in the absence of a Notary of the Treasury or a Notary Public, there being
none, according to law.
IGNACIO LoPEz.

Witness: JosE DIEGO LABANDERA.
Witness: JosE MAIA MENDOZA. -

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

tions, of each of which an auditor was the chief. 2 Dublan
and Lozano Mex. Laws, 308.
May 21, 1831, a law was lassed creating commissaries
general aid commissariats, an~d on July 7, 1831, regulations
were issued under the law of January 26. The first auditor
was made chief of the first section, having charge,-among
other things, of "national property in which is included,
under article nine of the law of August 4, 1824, that of the
inquisition and temporalities, and all other country or town
property belonging to the Fderation." 2 Mex. Laws, 329, 341.
The tenth regulation provided that the general department should take an exact "account of the number, location,
value, condition and present method of administration of all
the property and estates of the nation, in which were included
those of the inquisition and temporalities, and all others that
belong to the public exchequer, in accordance Iwith the law
of August 4, 18 4; should see to the thorough collection
of the proceeds, as provided in the law of January 26 and
other laws; and should do whatever it considered most beneficial in regard to the sale, lease or other means of administration that might, be advisable, in whole 'or in part, of the
property in question.
Certain regulations were thereafter prescribed, and set forth.
in a circular of July 20, 1831, 2 Mex. Laws, 351, whereby
the commissariats general were located in the capitals of
certain enumerated states ;.and, at designated points .in others,
that of Sonora being at Arizpe; but the commissaries, if
-they thought a change would be advantageous, were required
to bring it to the notice of the government with their reasons.
Articles 126 and 127 of these regulations read:
"126. All purchases, sales and contracts made on account
of the treasury, whatever be their purpose, shall be made by
the commissaries general sitting as boards of sale; but before convoking them, it shall be absolutely necessary to receive
first the order therefor, either from the supreme government,
communicated directly or through the treasury general, or
rather from the directory of revenues, when it relates to
matters subject thereto.

FAXON v. UNITED STAkTES.
Opinion of the Court.

"127. Said board shall hold its sessions in the room most
suitable for the purpose in the commissariats, or in the public
place nearest to those offices, and the regular members shall
be the commissary or sub-commissary; who shall preside, the
senior officer of the treasury, or the one who acts in his stead,
and the attorney general, where there is one, and each of these
employ~s shall take the place or seat to which he is entitled
in the order in which they are named."
Besides the regular members, it was provided by Article
128 that there should be special members, depending on the
character of the sale, purchase or contract being made, as for
instance, when it related to the offices or revenues in the
federal district subject to the directory general, the auditor
in charge should attend ; .and if subject to any of the other
departments, the chief clerk of the bureau of accounts, etc.
If it related to supplies for army service, the officer appointed
by the proper inspector should be present; if to business
pertaining to the artillery arsenals, etc., the chief officer
thereof; if to hospital service, the first assistant of the medieal corps; if to fortification works, the chief of the corps
of engineers; and if, finally, to other matters, the employ6
of the nearest related department appointed by the commissary general. Timely notice was required to. be given
to.the regular and special members of the day and hour of
the sale, which ordinarily should be held at ten o'clock in
the'morning.
It was also provided that if there was a notary public, in
the place, he should necessarily be present at the sessions of
the board, and that whatever was done therein should be certified to by him, or by two attending witnesses, if there was
none'; that the sales or purchases intended to be made should
be published for at least eight days beforehand by placards
,put up in the most public and frequented places, and also
inserted in newspapers of greatest circulation, if there were
any, care being taken that the notices contained the necessary
information about the, matter and its most essential circumstances; that when the sale was opened, and the customary
proclamations made, all lawfully made bids should be received

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

until the day of final sale, which should be made "to the
bidder who offers the most advantages to the treasury, as
determined by an absolute majority of the votes of the
board, which minute and'everything that may have occurred
at the sale shall be entered on the book, which the commissary and sub-commissaries shall keep for the purpose, and
which the members shall sign with attending witnesses or
with the notary, who, besides, shall draw up all other necessary papers. In the absence of a notary, a clerk, whom
the commissary shall bring for the purpose, shall draw up
the minutes and the conclusions." The proceedings .were
then to be forwarded with a report thereon to the supreme
government, "without whose approval the purchase, sale or
contract shall not be carried-into effect;" and it was also
provided that "when there is evidence that any member of
the board has bought or sold at the salej himself or .through
a third person, the sale shall be void and he shall be punished
with the penalties the laws impose upon those who commit
like abuses."
In 1835 the state legislatures were abolished and departmental bodies established; and the bases for a new constitution were adopted, followed by such constitution dividing the
country into departments, the interior government of which
was entrusted to the governors in subordination to the general
government. 3 Mex. Laws, 75, 89, 230, 258.
By a decree of April 17, 1837, the principal officer of the
general treasury in each department was designated as the
superior chief of ihe treasury, and on him and his subordinates was conferred by article 92 the powers and duties
formerly exercised by the commissary general and sub-commissaries, "in so far as they do not conflict with this decree,
for in that respect all existing laws stand repealed." 3 Mex.
Laws, 363.'
Articles 73, 74, 75 and 76 were as follows:
1"73. All the purchases and sales that are offered on account of the treasury and exceed five hundred dollars, shall
be made necessarily b.? the board of sales, which, in the
capital of each department, shall be composed of the su-

FAXON v. UNITED STATES.

255"

Opinion of the Court.

perior chief of the treasury, the departmental treasurer, the
first alcalde, the attorney general of the treasury, and the
auditor of the treasury, who shall act as secretary. Its
minutes shall be spread on a book which shall be kept for
the purpose, and shall be signed by all the members of the
board, and a copy thereof shall be transmitted to the superior
chief of the treasury, for such purposes as may be necessary
and to enable him to make a report to the supreme government.
"74. The superior chiefs shall hold meetings of the boards
of the treasury at least twice a month, and when they consider it necessary according to the difficulty and importance
of the business. These boards shall be composed of said
chief, the departmental .treasurer, the attorney general of
the treasury, the principal collector of the revenues and the
auditor of the treasury, who shall act as secretary thereof.
"75. The object of the board of the treasury shall be to
procure the, prosperity and increase of the revenues of the
treasury, the most easy and prompt collection thereof, to
promote the economies that should be made, to expedite such
grave matters of difficult solution as the superior chief may
bring to its knowledge and to make a report to the latter of
bad management, improper conduct, failure to comply with
their duties and other omissions of which they may. have
knowledge, or may have observed in the employes of the
treasury of the department.
"76. The minutes of the board shall be spread on the
proper book, which shall be signed by all the members thereof,
and an authenticated copy transmitted to the superior chief
of the treasury to enable him to make a report to the supreme
government, when the case requires it,"
By a law of December 7, 1837, it was made the duty of the
governors, among other things, "to preside over the boards
of sale and of the treasury, with power to defer the resolutions
of these latter until, in the first or secoTid session thereafter,
the matter under consideration is more carefully examined
into." 3 Mex. Laws, 443.
By Article 140 of a decree of June 13, 1843, it Was made the

OCTOBER TERME, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

duty of the governor of each department to publish the decrees
of the.president and cause them to be complied with; and by
subdivision 10 of Article 142, the governor was made the
chief of the public treasury of the department with general
supervision of the same. 4 Mex. Laws, 428. And in passing
it may be remarked that there is absolutely nothing in this
record to indicate that the governor participated in any way
in the act of sale, while ther terms of the testimonio clearly
show that the departmental treasurer proceeded and assumed
to proceed upon his own sole authority.
December 16, 1841, the office of the. 9u.perior chief of the
treasury created by the decree of April 17, 1837, was abolished,
and it was provided that the departmental treasurers should
continue for the present to perform the functions of their
office as established by the law creating them,. and alsQ to
perform those of the discontinued chiefs of the treasury,
except, such as were assigned to the commandants general,
who were to be inspectors and visitors of the treasury offices,
and to see that the public revenues were well and faithfully
collected, administered and disbursed; and to make timely
reports to the supreme government of what -they observed,
which should be brought to its attention. 4 Mex. Laws, 75.
On February 10, 1842, the following decree was issued:
"Antonio Lopez de Santa Ana, etc.
"Article 1. The boards of sale in the several departments
will proceed to sell, at public auction, to the highest bidder,
the properties (fincas) situated therein that pertain to the
department of temporalities.
"2. No bid will be admitted that does not cover the amount
considered to be the value of the property (fincas), computed
from the amount of the leases, which shall be considered as
the interest thereof, at the rate :of five per cent.
"3. The bids shall be made for cash, which sthall be paid
when the sale is approved, less the amount of the burden imposed on each property (fincas), which the buyers shall continue to recognize with a mortgage thereof.
"4. No action or claim, which the'actual lessors ofthe
property (fincas), in question, may intend to set up for ima-

FAXON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

provements or under other pretext shall, in any manner,
embarrass the proceedings of the board of sale in making
the sales, but the right of parties in interest to apply to the
supreme government, or to the proper authorities, shall remain intact.
"Therefore I order this to be printed, published and circulated, and demand that it be complied with." 4 Mex. Laws,
114.

Lopez cer~tified' that it was in virtue of this decree that be
had sold the lands in question as belonging to the class of
temporalities, and as being of a value not exceeding five hundred dollars, in which case he assumed that he was authorized to sell irrespective of the board of sales in view of
Article 73 of the decree of April 17, 1837. The argument is
that as that article provided that all purchases and sales exceeding five hundred dollars should be made necessarily by
the board of sales, therefore all property under that value
could be sold by the departmental treasurer alone; but the
difficulty is, as pointed out by the Court- of Private Land
Claims, that even if that provision operated in the manner
contended for, it had no application to a sale under the
decree of February 10, 1842, which -specifically directed that
the sales should be made by the board, and contained nothing
to suggest that the value of the property affected the power
and duty bf the board in any way.
The decree recognized the existence of the boards of sale
as the only proper official organs to accomplish the results
desired, and it was this decree that was relied on as justifying
-the-proceedings. If these lands were not of the temporalities,
then the basis of the sale utterly failed, as the decree applied
only to property of that class, and if of the temporalities the
sales were to be made by the board.
In relation to Article 73 of the law of 1837, some further
observations may be added.
The regulations of July 20, 1831, and the law of April 17,
1837, treated of the same subject-matter, and must be read
together; and prior laws, so far as not conflicting, were expressly saved from repeal by Article 92 of the latter act.
VOL. cL

-17

OCTOBER TERM, 189.
Opinion of the Court.

By section 73, the board of sales was necessarily to make
sales exceeding five hundred dollars, but nothing was said as
to sales for less than that sum. This would seem to have left
the law of 1831 in force in respect of the making and the
conduct of sales of property having a value -below that
amount, and whether the board of sales consisted of the
membership prescribed by section 73, or was composed in
-some respects of a different membership, is not material.
While these various laws are rather confusing in their number and minuteiiess, nothing is clearer than that thepower to
make sales and grants was vested in the treasury depart-ment of the nation and governed .by strict rules and regulations, none of which contemplated that any single officer
could make the sales. It i§ enough that the departmental
treasurer did not possess -the power, acting singly and on his
own responsibility, to conclusively determine to what class
lands belonged, and their value, and having decided these
points, thereupon to exercise the sole power of sale.
Tumac6cori, Calabazas and Huebabi are said to have been
originally separate and distinct pueblos and missions, of which
the two latter were abandoned as early as December, 1806,
when the -native Indians of Tumaccori and the governor of
said Indians presented petitions to the governor and intendente Conde to give them title in accordance with the, royal
instructions of October 15, 1754, and of Article 81 bf the
royal ordinances of December 4, 1786, (alleging the loss. or
destruction of their old title papers,) of the lands embraced in
the fundo legal and the estancia of each pueblo and mission,
whereupon the grant of 1807 was made.
The titulo refers to some lands acquired b3;purcbase, though
the record leaves that matter entirely vague and uncertain,
and declares the grant to be made to the pueblo and natives
of Tumaecdori, that they may "enjoy the use and freely possess at will and for their own benefit in community and individually, and for the decent support of the church of said
mission, but under the condition that in no case and in no
manner shall they alienate at any time any part of said lands
which are adjudicated and assigned to them, since they are

FAXON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

all to be considered as belonging to the Republic and community of natives alone, for their proper use, as well for sowing purposes as for stockraising and the increased prosperity
of the same."
This was'in accordance with the general rule that the missionaries and Indians only acquired a usufruct or occupancy
at the will of the sovereign. United States v. Cervantes, 18
How. 553.
Prior to 1829, the tribunal of the inquisition had been
abolished by the Cortes, and the monastic and other religious
orders suppressed, and on the 10th of May of that year it was
ordered, through the department of the treasury, that "the
property in which consist the funds of the temporalities of the
e-jesuits, and monastics, and the rural and urban estates
belonging to the inquisition " be sold at public sale to the
best and highest bidder. (2 Mex. Laws, 108.) May 31, 1829,
the commissary general of Mexico published a "list of the
urban and rural estates relating to the temporalities of the
ex-jesuits and suppressed monastics, with a statement of their
values, the burdens they carry, and annual revenue," (lb. 117,)
which did not include the lands in question. The departmental treasurer did not claim, and manifestly did not acquire,
the power to sell these lands under the order of May 10, 1829,
or the.regulations of July 7, 1831, bearing on that subject.
By a decree of April 16, 1834, (2 Mex. Laws, 689,) the missions of the Republic were secularized, that is to say, converted
from sacred to secular uses, and so far as these lands could
have been regarded as temporalities, that is, profane property
belonging to the church or its ecclesiastics, that decree
changed their condition.
And, as many years before the sale in question, the lands
of this pueblo and mission were abandoned, it would seem
that they thus became part of the public domain of the nation, and that as such the only laws applicable to their disposal were the laws of the nation in relation to its vacant
public lands, to which the proceedings in this instance do not
purport to have conformed or to have been made under them.
We concur with the Court of 'Private Land Claims that in

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

either view there was a fatal want of power in the departmental treasurer to make the sale, and it is not asserted in
the petition, nor was any evidence introduced to show that
his actibn was participated in or ratified by the governor, or
by the national government in any manner. And this is not
a case in which the sale and grant can be treated as validated
Decree ffimd.
by presumption.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILROAD
SMITH.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

N6. 98. Argued March 21, 1898. -Decided May 81, 1898.
Neither the city of Bismarck, as owner of the town site, nor its grantee
Smith, can, under the circumstances disclosed in this record, disturb the
possession of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company in its right of way
extending two hundred feet on each side of its said road.
The finding of the trial court, that only twenty-five feet in width has ever
been occupied for railroad purposes, is immaterial.
By granting a right of way four hundred feet in width, Congress must be
understood to have conclusively determined that a strip of that width
was necessary for a public work of such importance, and it was not competent for a court, at the suit of a private party, to adjudge that only
twenty-five feet thereof were occupied for railroad purposes in the face
of the grant and of the finding that the entire land in dispute was within
two hundred feet of the track of the railroad as actually constructed,
and that the railroad company was in actual possession therepf by its
tenants.
The precise character of the business carried on by such tenants Is not disclosed, but the court is permitted to presume that it is consistent with
the public duties and purposes of the railroad company; and, at any rate,
a forfeiture for misuser could not be enforced in a private action.

THIS was an action brought by Patrick R. Smith on the
28th day of December, 1891, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of North Dakota against
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company. The -complaint
and answer were as follows:
"The complaint of the above-named plaintiff respectfully

