POUNDS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

POUNDS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAN!A.
Fqo. 299. Submitted May 6,.1898. -Decided May is, 1898.
An indictment under Rev. Stat. ยง 3296, for the concealment of distilled
spirits on which the tax has not been paid, removed to a place other
than the distillery warehouse provided by law, which charges the performance of that act at a particular time and place, and in the language
of the statute, is sufficiently certain.
'When there is nothing in the record to show that the jury in a criminal case
separated before the verdict was returned into court, and the record
shows that a sealed verdict was returned by the jury by agreement of
counsel for both parties in open court, and in the presence of the defendant, the verdict was rightly received and recorded.

THE indictment under which the defendant (plaintiff in
error) was tried contained fifteen counts. He was convicted
on the sixth count, which read as follows:
"The grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, do
further present, that, at the time and place and within the
jurisdiction aforesaid, the said George Pounds unlawfully
did conceal and aid in the concealment of distilled spirits on
which the tax had not been paid, which said spirits had been
removed to a place other than the distillery warehouse provided by law, contrary ti the form of the statute in such case
made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the
United States."
The count was drawn under section 3296 of the Revised
Statutes, which provides that"Whenever any person removes, or aids or abets in the
removal of any distilled spirits on which the tax has not been
paid, to a place other than the distillery warehouse provided
by law, or conceals, or aids in the concealment of any spirits
so removed, or removes, or aids or abets in the removal of
any distilled spirits from any distillery warehouse or other
warehouse for distilled spirits authorized by law, in any
manner other than is provided by law, or conceals, or aids

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

in the concealment of any spirits so removed, he shall be
liable to a penalty of double the tax imposed on such distilled
spirits so removed or concealed, and shall be fined not less
than two hundred nor more than five thousand dollars, and
imprisoned not less ' than three months nor more than three
years."
After the verdict, and before the judgment, the plaintiff in
error filed his motion in arrest of judgment, as follows:
"1Now comes the defendant after the rendition of the verdict of the jury finding him guilty as charged in the sixth
count of the indictment and before judgment and sentence,
and movres the court to arrest the judgment in this case, upon
the ground that the sixth count of the indictment is too vague
and uncertain to authorize a judgment and sentence against
the defendant."
Afterwards- an amended motion in arrest of judgment was
filed, as follows:
"By leave of the court first had and obtained the defendant amends his motion in arrest of judgment by adding the
following grounds:
"First. The said sixth count of the indictment fails to
show that there was a warehouse provided by law to which
the spirits alleged to have been concealed should have been
removed.
"Second. That the jury separated before the verdict of thQ
jury was returned intb court."
The overruling of this motion wag assigned as error.
-Mr. J. A. W. Smith for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneraZ Boyd 'for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Section 3271 of the Revised Statutes provides that "every
distiller shall provide, at his own expense, a warehouse, to be

POUNDS v. UNITED STATES.

37

Opinion of the Court.

situated on and to constitute a part of his distillery premises,
and to be used only for the storage of distilled spirits ofhis
own manufacture until the tax thereon shall be paid;
and such warehouse, when approved by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue on report of the collector, is hereby
declared a bonded warehouse of the' United States, to be
known as a distillery warehouse, and shall be under the direction and control of the collector of the district and in charge
of an internal revenue storekeeper assigned thereto by the
Commissioner."
Section 3287 provides that all distilled spirits shall be drawn
from the receiving cisterns into casks of a designated capacity
and the quantity of spirits marked thereon, "and shall be immediately removed into the distillery warehouse," andl stamps
designating the quantity of spirits shall be applied thereto.
Other sections provide that no distilled spirits upon which
the tax has been paid shall be stored or allowed to i'emain on
any distillery premises, and such spirits found in a cask containing five gallons or more without having the stamp required
by law shall be forfeited.
To secure the enforcement of this provision, section 3296
was enacted.
Plaintiff in error says:
"It seems clear that section 3296 of the Revised Statutes
intended to provide a punishment for a distiller who had complied with the various provisions of chapter four of the Revised
Statutes, and had provided a. warehouse as required by section
3271, and then concealed or aided in the concealment of distilled spirits which had been removed, the tax not having
been paid, to a place other than the distillery warehouse so
provided."
And it hence claimed that the indictment is too uncertain
to stustain the judgment, because it does not inform the defendant that a warehouse was provided in which the spirits
which he is charged to have concealed should have been
stored until the tax was paid. Undoubtedly, the statute was
intended to punish a distiller who violated its provisions. It
was also intended to punish any one else who did, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Syllabus.

offence could be committed by a removal of spirits from the
premises before storage in the distillery warehouse or by concealment of the spirits so removed. And it is this concealment which the indictment charges, and it sufficiently alleges
the existence of a warehouse. It also alleges that the tax 'had
not been paid. The- offence wag purely statutory. In such
case it is generally sufficient to charge the defendant with acts
coming within the statutory description in the substantial
words of tie statute without any further expansion of the
matter.. United States v. Simmons, 96 U. S. 360; United
States v.Britton, 107 U., S. 655.

One of the acts which is made an offence by section 3296 is
the concealment of distilled spirits on which the tax has not
been paid, removed to a place other than the distillery warehouse pr6vide d by law. The indictment charges in the
language of the statute the performance of that act at a particular time and place. It was therefore sufficiently certain.
As to the second ground of motion in arrest of judgment,
it is enough to say that there is nothing in the record to show
that the jury separated before the verdict *was returned, into
court, but the record does show that a sealed verdict was returned by the jury by agreement of counsel for both parties
in open court and in the presence of the defendant. This
verdict was rightly received and recorded. Commonwealth v.
Carrington,116 Mass. 37.
The judgment is
Aflled.

HARRISON v. MORTON.
ERROR TO THE 'COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF M ARYLAND.
N'o.245. Argued May 2, 8,1898.- Decided May 2.3,1S98.

Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, affirmed to the points:
(I) That to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state
court it must appear affirmatively not only that a Federal question
was presented for decision by the state court, but that its decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it

