WALRATH v. CHAMPION MINING COMPANY.

293

Syllabus.

WALRATt .v. CHAMPION MINING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROMX THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 280. Argued April 22, 1898.-Decded May 81, 1898.

On the 28th of April, 1871, on a previous location made in 1857, the Providence Gold and Silver Mining Company obtained a patent in which it was
recited that it was " the intent and meaning of these presents to convey"
to the company "the vein or lode in its entire width for the distance
of 3100 feet along the course thereof.". Under that act a patent could be
issued for only one vein; but the act of May 10, 1872, c. 152, gave to all
locations theretofore made, as well as to all thereafter made, all veins,
lodes and ledges, the top or apex of which lies inside of the surface
lines. September 29, 1877, the Champion Mining Company made a location upon the Contact Vein, which overlapped the Providence location,
both as to surface ground and lode. In 1884 a dispute took place, which
brought about relocation of the lode line of the Champion Company; 'but
eventually the conflicting claims resulted in this suit. Held,
(1) That the extent of the rights passing under the act of 1866 was
decided by this court in Mining Co. v. Tarbet, 98 U. S. 463, viz.:
that "the right to follow the dip of the vein is bounded by the
end lines of the claim;
(2) That that right stops at the end line of the lode location, terminated
.by vertical lines drawn downward;
(3) That the original location and lode determined those end lines.
The following propositions, announced in Del Monte Mining Co. v. Last
Chance Mining Co., ante, 55, are affirmed with the addition that the end
lines of the original veins shall be the end lines of all the veins found
within the surface boundaries : ".First, the location as made on the surface by the locator determines the extent of rights below the surface.
Second, the end lines, as he marks them on the surface, with the single
exception hereinafter noticed, place the limits beyond which he may not
go in the appropriation of any vein or veins along their course or strike.
Third, every vein ' the top or apex of which lies inside of such surface
lines extended downward vertically' becomes his by virtue of his location,
and he may pursue it to any depth beyond his vertical side lines, although
in so doing he enters beneath the surface of some other proprietor.
Fourth, the only exception to the rule that the end lines of the location
as the locator places them establish the limits beyond which he may not
go in the appropriation of a vein on its course or strike is where it is
developed that in fact the location has been placed not along but across
the course of the vein. In such case the law declares that those which
the locator called his side lines are his end lines, and those which he

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.
called end lines are in fact side lines, and this upon the proposition tha
it was the intent of Congress to give to the locator only so many feet of
the length of the vein, that length to be bounded by the lines which the
locator has established of his locatibn." "
There is no merit in the contention that by agreement, by acquiescence, and
by estoppel, the linef-g on the plan has become the end line of the two
claims.
It is the end lines alone which define the extralateral rights, and they must
be straight lines, not broken or curved lines, and to such the right on the
vein below is strictly -confined.

THis action, brought in the Superior Court of Nevada
County, California, involves title to a triangular shaped section of what is known as the "Contact," "Ural" or." Back"
ledge of 'gold-bearing ore, situated in the same county,
claimed by appellant to be a portion of the Providence Mine,
to which complainant has title through a patent from the
United StAtes, and by'appellee, a corporation, to be a part of
the iNew Years Extension Mine owned by it.
The relative situation of the two properties and the portion
of the ledge in controversy is shown by Figure No. 1 on page
295; the disputed section being contained between the lines
thereon marked "Line claimed by Providence" and "Line
claimed by Champion."
The figures marked "New Years" and "New Years Extension" represent the surface of the mining properties owned
by defendant, while that marked "Providence Mine" represents the surface of the patented ground of the plaintiff.
The action was brought May 24, 1892, to recover $300,000
damages for ore extracted from the ledge and carried away
by the defendant, and for an injunction against further trespasses thereon.
Upon motion of appellee the action was removed to .the
United States Circuit Court, as involving a Federal question,
where the complainant recast his pleadings so as to separate
the action into a bill in equity, upon which the action is now
proceeding, and an action at law for the damages alleged.
The suit in equity was tried in the Circuit Court and decided mainly in favor of the appellee.
From this decree the appellant appealed to the Court .of

WALRATH v. CHAMPION MINING COMPANY.

295

Statement of the Case.

FIG. I

0AMP10.

7

0 3/.owG

rHE 6ivD LI//s CzAIMED

By EA ch,,A'D rHE LrNvs FxED a,yr,
ClRCUIT COURT AMD COURT OF APPEALS.
o

s4

4

4 F$

. SCALE OF CUH/iS,

.f

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, where it was modified, and, as
modified, affirmed.
The appellant now brings the case to this court upon writ
of error from the Court of Appeals.
The appellant's title is deraigned as follows: In 1857, under
the miners' rule and customs then in force, thirty-one locators
located thirty-one hundred feet of the Providence or Granite
lode. By mepne conveyances the title to this location became
vested in the Providence Gold and Silver Mining Company,
and on April 28, 1871, that company obtained a patent to
thirty-one hundred feet of the lode and for surface ground as
described in the patent.
The title thus granted to the Providence Gold and Silver
Mining Company was, before the commencement of this suit,
vested in the appellant.
The ledge, as granted by the patent, extends thirty feet
north of the north surface line of the location and some six
hundred and eighty feet south of the south surface line.
The. patent conveyed only the Providence ledge and the
surface ground. All other ledges contained within the surface'lines were expressly reserved.
It is also contended by appellants that, by the act of Congress of May 10, 1872, exclusive possession of all the surface
included within the lines of the location was granted to the
owners of the Providence, together with all other lodes or
ledges having their tops or apexes within such surface lines.
This grant, of course, included the Contact vein, subsequently
discovered within said boundaries, and now constituting the
bone of contention in this action.
The Contact vein is shown in the figure, and crosses the
surface line f-g of the Providence location.
On September 29, 1877, the appellee and defendant, the
Champion Mining Company, made a location upon the Contact vein called the New Years Extensioi Mine. This location overlapped, both as to surface ground and lode, upon the
Providence location; that is, the lode line and surface lines of
the said New Years Extension extended to the south of the
boundary line f-g of the Providence location.

WfALRATH v. CHAMPION MINING COMPANY.

297

Statement of the Case.
The New Years Extension Mine is shown in Figure No. 2,
,on page 298, together with the conflict caused by the overlap;
the conflicting surface portions being shaded, and showing
,the Contact vein passing through it.
In the year 1884 the complainant and his cobwners objected
to the overlap, and demanded of the Champion Mining Company that it abandon all claims to the surface and lode to
the south of the Providence boundary line, above described.
Thereupon, in the mouth of November, 1884, John Vincent,
the superintendent of the defendant, the Champion Mining
Company, under the authority and by the direction of the
said company, relocated the New Years Extension Mine by a
notice of relocation, in which the fact of the overlap under the
-original location was particularly recited, and the lines were
.readjusted so as to avoid the overlap and to conform to said
line f-g of the Providence Mine, as shown on Figure 1.
In the notice of relocation the lode line was particularly
,described as follows: "The lode line of this claim as originally located, and which I hereby relocate, is described as
follows: Commencing at a point on the northerly bank of
Deer Creek, which point is 60 feet south, 11 degrees 45 minutes
;east of the mouth of the New Years tunnel, and running
thence along the line of the lode towards the N.E. corner of
the Providence mill, about S. 46 degrees 15 minutes east, 200
feet, more or less, to a point and stake on the northerly line
-of the Providence Mine, patented, designated as Mineral Lot
No. 40 for the south end of said lode.line."
Ii also contained the following statement:
"And whereas, part of this-claim, as originally described
-and as hereby relocated, conflicts with the rights granted by
letters patent of said Providence Mine, said Lot No. 40, now,
therefore, so much of this claim, both for lode and surface
ground, as originally conflicted or now conflicts with any portion
of the surface or lode claims or rights granted by said, patent,
is and are hereby abandoned, which portion of this claim so
abandoned is described as follows: All that portion of the
above described New Years Extension Claim for surface and
lode which lies south of the northern boundary line of said

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Statement of the Case.

FIG.2.

0/
d,Q

ei

NEw YEAPS ETXrkSINON
AS ORI&I1,,LLY LOCATED.

I•/
I

I,

SHADED PART SHOWING LODZ' AN
SURFACE CONFLICT W17H PhOVIDENCE.

WALRATH v. CHAMPION MINING COMPANY.

299

Statement of the Case.

Providence Mine, which runs north 43 degrees 10 minutes
east, across the southeastern corner of this claim."
The New Years Extension, as relocated, is coterminous
with the Providence Mine on the northerly boundary line,
designated as the line f-g, running south 43 degrees west.
(Fig. 1.)
That line is the only boundary between the two properties,
and the only boundary of the Providence location which is
crossed by the Contact ledge.
The first workings of the appellee involved no conflict with
appellant. The shaft ran parallel with the Providence line,
and none of the levels crossed that line until about three
months before this suit was begun, when the 1000 foot level
was driven across it into the ground in.dispute. Subsequently
the eighth and ninth levels were driven across.
The work done by the Providence was carried on through
a shaft sunk on the Providence or Granite ledge, from which
shaft a crosscut was run back to the Contact vein on the 600
foot level, and another on the 1250 foot level, and much of
the ground now in controversy was thereby prospected and
opened up by complainant and his cobwners. (See Fig. 1.)
The claims of the respective parties will be readily understood by reference to Fig. 1, which shows the relative position
of all the mining properties belonging to both, with the lines
claimed by them.
The portion'of the Contact vein in dispute is that upon the
dip of the ledge lying between the line marked "Line claimed
by Providence" and the line marked "Line claimed by Champion."
The apex of the Contact vein is represented by the dotted
line x-x , and shows the vein as far as exposed in both the
Champion and Providence ground. South of x,the course of
the vein in the Providence ground is unknown.
The line f-g is the same line as that designated A-B by
some of the witnesses.
Upon the trial the Circuit Court held that there could be
but one end line for each end of the Providence location, and
that the lines g-h and a-p constituted such end lines; that

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Counsel for Appellant.

such lines constituted the end lines of not only the originally
discovered Providence lode, but also of every other vein that
might be discovered within the surface lines of the location.
But, notwithstanding this holding, in entering the decree the
line f- g was also established as an end line of the Contact
vein, but for its length only, and then that from "g" the line
g-h, and that line extended indefinitely eastwardly, constituted another end line for the same end of the lode, and constituted the line through which the plane determinative of all
extralaterat rights in the vein must be drawn.
From this decree the appellant here was allowed an appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The latter court established the line g-h-A 1 as the sole end
line of the Contact vein, and reversed the decree of the Circuit Court in so far as it fixed the line f-g as an end line.
As a result of this decree the complainant was not only shut
,out of all extralateral rights in the Contact vein north of the
line g-h-hA, but also of that portion of the vein lying vertically beneath the surface lines of the Providence which extend
north of that line, ,and which are marked upon the figures as
-constituting the parallelogram h-i--k-h 1 , which was awarded
to the Champion. (Sde Fig. 1, showing the end line fixed by
the Circuit Court, and that line as subsequently fixed by the
Court of Appeals, with the latter line extended in its own
direction both eastwardly and westerly.)
From the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals the
appellant has appealed to this court.
There are nine assignments of error. The first eight attack
so much of the decree as establishes the line g-h as an end
line, for the purpose of determining the extralateral right, or
fails to establish the line f-g, and that line produced indefinitely in the direction of g' as such end line. The last two
assail so much-of the decree as awards to appellee the right to
pursue the vein on its downward course underneath the par-allelogram h-i-k-h.1
.Mr. 1?. R. Bigelow for appellant. .Mr. .Daniel Titus and
Xr.James F. Smith were on his brief.

WALRATH v. CHAMPION MINING COMPANY.

301

Opifiion of the Court.

-Mr. Curti&H. Lindley for appellee.
JUSTICE MoKXiNA, after making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

There are two questions presented by the assignment of
errors: .
(1.) What are the extralateral rights of the appellant on the
Contact vein .
(2.) Is appellant entitled to that portion of the Contact vein
within the Providence boundaries which lies north of the
north end line fixed by the court, and which is described
upon Fig. 1 as the parallelogram bounded by the lines.
marked h-i-k-hA?
(1.) The appellant contends that the patent of the Providence ledge *as conclusive evidence of his title to thirty-one
hundred feet in length of that vein. If true, this carried the
northern end of the ledge thirty feet beyond the line fixed by
either the Circuit Court or the Circuit Court of Appeals. It
was truly said at bar: "If it is not the end line of the Providence location, then certainly there is no reason for holding it
to be the end line of the Contact vein."
The language of the patent is: "It being the intent and
meaning of these presents to convey unto the Providence Gold
and Silver Mining Company, and to their successors and assigns, the said vein or lode in its entire width for the distance
of thirty-one hundred (3100) feet along the course thereof."
The patent was issued under the act of 1866, and it is necessary, therefore, to some extent to consider that act. By it,
the appellant urges, the principal thing patented was the lode,
and that the northern limit of that, and hence of his rights on
that was thirty feet north of the line fixed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals; and hence it is further contended that as
the northern and southern surface line (g-A and a-p) did not
determine or limit his right to the lode under the act of 1866
- in other words, did not become end lines- they do not
become end lines upon the Contact ledge (x'-xa' acquired
under the act of 1872) but that the surface line which crosses.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

the strike of that ledge must be held to be the end line, and
the line which fixes the rights of the parties. This line isf-g,
Fig. 1, and, if appellant is correct, determines the controversy
-in his favor.
The extent of the right passing under the act of 1866 has
been decided by this court.
In Xining Co. v. Tarbet, 98 U. S. 463, known as the Flagstaff
case, the superficial area of the Flagstaff Mine was one hundred feet wide by twenty-six hundred feet long. It lay across
the lode, not With it, and the company contended, notwithstanding that, it had a-right to the lode for the length of the
location. In other words, the contention was that it was the
lode which was granted, and that the surface ground was a
mere incident for the convenient working of the lode. The
contention was presented and denied by the instructions which
were given and-refused by the lower court. That court instructed the jury that if they found Tarbet "was in possession
of the claim, describing it, holding the same in accordance
with- the mining, laws and the customs of the miners of the
mining district, and that the apex and course of the vein in
dispute are within such surface, then, as against one subsequently entering, he is deemed to be possessed of the land
within his boundaries to any depth, and also of the vein in the
surface to any depth on its dip, though the vein in its dip downward passes the side line of the surface boundary and extends
beneath other and adjoining lands, and a trespass upon such
part of the vein on its dip, though beyond the side surface line,
is unlawful to the same extent as a trespass on the vein inside of the surface boundary. This possession of the vein
outside of the surface line, on its dip, is limited in two ways
- by the length of the course of the vein within the surface;
and by an extension of the end lines of the surface claim vertically, and in their own direction, so as to intersect the vein on
its dip; and the right of a possessor to recover for trespass on
the vein is subject to only these restrictions."
Again.: "The defendant (plaintiff in error) has not shown
any title or color of.title to any part of the vein, except so
much of its length on the course as lies within the Flagstaff

WALRATH v. CHAMPION MINING COMPANY.

303

Opinion of the Court.

surface, and the dip of the vein for that length; and it has
shown no title or color of -title to any of the surface of the
South Star and Titus mining claim, except so much of No. 3
as lies within the patented surface of the Flagstaff mining
claim."
And the followinig instructions propounded by the owner
of the Flagstaff:
"By the act of Congress of July 26, 1866, under which all
these locations are claimed to have been made, it was the vein
or lode of mineral that was located and claimed; the lode
was the principal thing, and' the surface area was a mere
incident for the convenient working of the lode; the patent
granted the lode, as such, irrespective' of the surface area,
which an applicant was not bound to claim; it was his convenience for working the lode that controlled his location of
his surface area; and the patentee under that act takes a fee
simple title to the lode, to the full extent located and claimed
under said act."
Commenting on the instructions, Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for the court, said:
"These instructions and refusals to instruct indicate the
general position taken by the court below, namely, that a
mining claim secures only so much of a lode or vein as it
covers along the course of the apex of the vein on or near
the surface, no matter how far the location may extend in
another direction."
.And after stating that the ct of 1872 was more explicit
than that of 1866, but the intent of both undoubtedly the
same, as it respects lines and side lines, and the right to follow
the dip outside of the latter, he prbceeded as follows:
"We think that. the intent of both statutes is, that mining
locations on lodes or veins shall be made thereon lengthwise,
in the general direction of such veins or lodes on the surface
of the earth where they are discoverable; and that the end
lines are to cross the lode and extend perpendicularly down.
wards, and to be continued in their own direction either way
horizontally; and that the right to follow the dip outside of
the side lines is based on the hypothesis that the direction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

these lines corresponds substantially with the course of the
lode-or vein at its apex on or near the surface. It was not
the intent of the law to allow a person to make his location
crosswise of a vein so that the side lines shall cross it, and
thereby give him the right to follow the strike of the vein
outside of his side lines. That would subvert the whole system sought to be established by the law. If he does locate
his claim in that way, his rights must be subordinated to the
.rights of those who have properly located on the lode. Theh
right to follow the, dip outside of their side lineg cannot be
interfered with by him. His right to the lode only extends,
to so much of the lode as his claim covers. If he has located
crosswise of the lode, and his claim is only one hundred fedt
wide, that one hundred feet is all he has a riglht to. This we
consider to be the law as to locations on lodes or veins.
"The location of the plaintiff in error is thus laid across
the Titus lode, that is to say, across the course of its apex. at
or near the surface; and the side lines of the location are
really the end lines of the claim, considering the direction or
course of the lode at the surface.
"As the law stands, we think that the right to follow the.
dip of the vein is bounded by the end lines of the claim,
properly so called; which lines are those which are crosswise
of the general course of the vein on the surface. The Spanish
mining law confined the owner of a mine to perpendicular
lines on every side, but gave him greater or less width
according to the dip of the vein. See Rockwell, pp. 56-58
and pp. 274-275. But our laws have attempted to establish
a rule by which each claim shall be so many feet of the vein,,
lengthwise of its course, to any depth below the surface,
although laterally its inclination shall carry it ever so far from
a perpendicular. This rule the court below strove to carry out,
and all its rulings seem to have been in accordance with it."
This law was followed and applied in Argentine Mining
Co. v. Terrible -Mining Co., 122 U. S. 478; in Iron Silver Mining Co. v. Elgin Xining Co., 118 U. S.196; and in Zing v.
Amy c SilversmitA -Min. Co., 152 U. S.222. The locations
passed upon in these cases were made under the act of 1872,

WALRATH v. CHAIPION

tINING COMPANY.

305

Opinion of the Court.

but we have seen that the intent of that act and the act of
1866, "as it respects end lines and side lines," was the same.
But appellant urges that "those cases are not in point
here." We think that they are. The patent in the Flagstaf
case a:ppears to have been the same as here, and besides
whatever the paterit here it must be confined to the righits
given by the statute which authorized it.
In the Flagstaf case the lode was claimed, and hence the
right to follow it beyond the surface boundaries of the location was claimed. Here the lode is claimed and the right to
follow it outside of the surface boundaries, that is, beyond
the linef-g to the point x 1. In that case the right contended
for was denied on the principle applicable to end and side
lines. In this case the right contended for must be denied by
the application of the same principle.
But, appellant asks, admitting for the argument's sake that
it (the line g-k) does constitute an end line of the location
within the meaning of the law of May 10, 1872, does it con-stitute the end line of the Contact -vein? And in answering
the question he says: "The end line of a lode is the boundary line which crosses it regardless of whether it was originally intended as an end line or side line. Four times has
this principle been sustained by this court." He then cites
the cases we have cited, and claims that they "are of course
conclusive of this controversy if they are in point."
Under the law of July 26, 1866, c. 262, a patent could be
issued for only one vein. 14 Stat. 251. The act of 1872
gave to all locations theretofore made, as well as to those
thereafter made, all veins, lodes and ledges the top or apex of
which lie inside of the surface lines. Section 3 of the act,
which is also section 2322 of the Revised Statutes, is as
follows:
"The locators .of all mining locations heretofore made, or
which shall hereafter be made, on any mineral vein, lode or
ledge, situated on the public domain, their heirs and assigns,
where no adverse claim exists- on the tenth day of May,
eighteen hundred and seventy-two, so long as they comply
with the laws of the United States, and with the state, terVOL. CLXXI-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

ritorial and local regulations not in conflict with the laws of
the United States governing their possessory title, shall have
the exclusive right of possession and enjoyment of all the
surface included within the lines of their locations, and of all
veins, lodes and ledges throughout iheir entire depth, the top
or apex of which lies inside of such surface lines extended
downward vertically, although such veins, lodes or ledges
muay so far depart from a perpendicular in their course downward as to extend outside the -vertical side lines of such -surface lodations. But their right of possession to such outside
parts of such veins or ledges shall be confined to such portions thereof as lie between vertical planes drawn downward,
as above described, through the end lines of their locations,
so continued in their own direction that such planes will
intersect such exterior parts of such veins or 'ledges. And
nothing in this section shall authorize the locator or possessor
of a vein or lode which extends in its downward course beyond the vertical lines of his claim-to enter upon the surface
of a claim owned or possessed by another." Act of May 10,
1872,'c. 152, § 3; See. 2322, Ryev. Stat.
Appellant's right upon the Contact- vein is given by this
statute. What limits'this right extralaterally? The statute
says vertical planes drawn downward through the end lines of
the location. What end lines? Those of and as determined
by the original location and lode, the Circuit Court of Appeals
decided. Those determined by the diredtion of the newly
discovered lodes, regardless whether they were originally intended as end lines .or side lines, the appellant, as we have
seen, contends. The Court of Appeals was right. Against
the contention of appellant the letter and spirit of the statute
oppose, and against it the decisions of this court also oppose.
The 'language of the statute is that the "outside parts"
of the veins or ledges. "shall be confined to such portions
thereof as -lie between vertical planes drawn downwards
through the end lines of their locations. . .
And Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, said, in Zron
Silver M-ining Co. v. Elgin Min ing Co., 118 U..S. 196, 198:
"The provision of the statute, that the locator is entitled

WALRATH v. CHAMPION MINING COTfPANY.

307

Opinion of the Court.

throughout their 4ntire depth to all the veins, lodes or ledges,
the top or apex of which lies inside of the surface lines of his
location, tends strongly to show that the end lines marked
on the ground must control. -It often happens that the top
or apex- of more than one vein lies within such surface lines,
atd the veinsi-ay have different courses and dips, yet his right
to follow them outside of the side lines of the location must
be bounded bj planes drawn vertically through the same end
lines. The planes of the end lines cannot be drawn at a right
angle to the courses of all the veins if they are not 'identical."
The court, however, did not mean that the end lines, called
such by the, locator, were the true end lines, but those which
"are crosswise of the general course of the vein on the surface."

This court in Del Monte Mining Co. v. Last Cha.nce Mining
Co., decided at the present term, ante, 55, reviewed the cases
we have cited, and, speaking for the court, Mr. Justice Brewer
said:
"Our conclusion may be summed up in these propositions:
First, the -location as made on the surface by the locator
determines the extent of rights below the surface; second,
the end lines, as he marks them on the surface. with the
single exception hereinafter noticed, place the limits beyond
which he may not go in the appropriation of any vein or veins
along their course or strike; third, every vein, 'the top or
apex of which lies inside of such surface lines extended downward vertically,' becomes his by virtue of his location, and he
may pursue it to any depth beyond his vertical side lines, although in so doing he enters beneath the surface of some other
proprietor; fourth, the only exception to the rule that the
end lines of the location as the locator places them establish
the limits beyond which he may not go in the appropriation
of a vein on its course or strike is where it is developed, that,
in fact, the location has been placed not along, but across the
course of the vein. In such case, the law declares that those
which the locator called his side lines are his end lines, and
those which he called end lines are in fact side lines, and this,
upon the proposition that it was the intent of Congress to give

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

to the locator only so many feet of the length of the vein,
that length to be bounded b r the lines which the locator has
established of his location. Our laws -have attempted to
establish a rule by which each claim shall be so many feet
of the vein, lengthwise of its course, to any depth below the
surface, although laterally its inclination shall carry it ever
so far' from a perpendicular." .Mining Company v. Tarbet,
98 U. S. 463-468.
These propositions we affirm, with the addition that the
end lines of the original veins shall be the end lines of all the
veins found within the surface boundaries.
The appellant contends that by agreement, by acquiescence
and by estoppel the line f-g has become the end line between
the two claims.
This contention is attempted to be supported by; (d), a relocation of the New Years Extension Claim, by which it is
asserted it recognized and designated the line f-g as the
northerly end line of the Providence .claim; (b), the testimony
of the superintendent as to what took place between him and
the directors before sinking the Champion shaft, and afterwards between him and a cotenant of complainant (appellant).
(a.) The relocation does not in t6rms recognize .the line f-g
as the northern end line of the Providence. Its recitals are:
"And whereas, part of this claim as originally described
and as hereby relocated, conflicts with the rights granted by
the letters patent of said Providence Mine, said Lot No. 40,
now, therefore, so much of this claim, both for rbde and surface ground, as originally designated, conflicting, or now conflicts, with any portion of the surface or lode, claims or rights
granted by skid patent, is and are hereby abandoned."
"Which portion of this clain so abandoned is described as
follows: All that portion of the above described New Years
Extension Claim for surface and lode which lies south of the
northern boundary line of said Providence Mine, which runs
north 43 degrees, 10 minutes east, across the southeastern
corner of this claim."
It will be observed by reference to Fig. 1 that the northern

WALRATH v. CHAMPION MINING COMPANY.

309

Opinion of the Court.

boundary of the Providence is not one line, but two lines, and
it is the one which runs north 430 10' east across the southern
corner, which is designated in the relocation of the New Years
claim.
In the notice of relocationi, however, the northerly line of
the Providence is called the south end line of the relocated
ground. The description is as follows:
"The lode line of this claim as originally located, and
which I .herebyrelocate, is described as follows: Commencing at a point on the northerly bank of Deer Creek, which
point is 80 feet S., 11 deg. 45 minutes east of the mouth of
the New Years tunnel and running thence along the line of
the lode towards the N.E. corner. of the Providence Mill,
about S. 46 deg. 15 minutes east, 200 feet more or less, to a
point and stake on the northerly line of the Providence Mine,
patented, designated as Mineral Lot No. 40 for the south end
of said lode line. And that the Contact vein crosses in its
onward course the southerly end line of said New Years Extension Claim and enters. the lands and premises of plaintiff
described in said bill of complaint."
It is hence contended that if the line f-g is the southerly
end line of the New Years extension it must necessarily be
the northern end line of the Providence Mine. This does not
follow, nor is there any concession of it. Coincidence of lines
between claims does not make them side lines or end lines.
Whether they shall be so regarded depends upon the legal
considerations which we have already sufficiently entered into
and need not repeat. We do not say that there may not be
an agreement settling end lines. One example of such an
agreement was exhibited in Richmond -Mining Co. v. Eureka
Mining Co., 103 U. S. 839.
(b.) The testimony relied on was admitted against the objection of defendants (appellees). It was as follows:
"Q. Then you may go on, Mr. Vincent, and state how you
started that work, and how you planned it, and what communications you had, if any, with the board of directors of
the Champion Mining Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1897.
Opinion of the Court.

"A. Well, I was sent up by the board of directors to do
whatever work I thought was for the best of the company.
I started that shaft down and had it down about 40 feet, and
I reported to the board of directors in. session about what.
work I had done, and they calculated to go to work and put
up hoisting works and run that shaft down further.
"Q. What, if any, communication did you make, or was
there any cbmmunicatipn from the board to you concerninig
the direction of the shaft, and why any given direction was
adopted for the shaft?
"A. There was none, but then I reported to the board that
such was the case, that the shaft was laid out so it would
never interfere with this line."
The witness further testified that he sank the shaft 540 feet
and was discharged on the 1st. of August, 1889, and he was
further questioned as follows:
"Q. State whether at the time you were sinking that shaft
you were called upon by Mr. Walrath, the complainant in this
action, or his brother Mr. Richard Walrath, to make any
inquiry of you concerning the construction of that shaft and
what the intention was, whether to cross the Providence line
or not, as niarked on the map?
"A. Well; Mr. Walrath he happened to come along, and he
made a remark to me that he wished for us, of course, to keep
his line and not to cross it as he didn't want any more trouble as
he did have with some other mining properties adjoining; that
he didn't want any more holes in his ground, and so I answered
him that I would respect his line as long as I am here.
"TiE COURT. - That you would respect his line as long as
you were' there?
"A. As long as I was superintendent of the mine.
"Q. Where did this conversation take place?
"A. Right on the priemises.
"Q. You were then acting as superintendent, were you?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. What line was referred to at that time as the Providence line; can you point it out on the map?

WALRATH v. CHAMPION MINING COMPANY.

311

Opinion of the Court.

"A. Yes, sir; it is the line marked 'A B' on the map,
Exhibit 4."
This testimony does not establish an equitable estoppel, nor is
the corporation bound by the declarations of. the superintendent. They were without the scope of his agency or authority.
(2.) The right of that portion of the Contact ledge within
the boundaries of the parallelogram k-i-k-k' presents an
interesting question. It does not appear to have been submitted to either of the lower courts, but the right by the decree
of the Circuit Court is given to appellee by adjudging to it
that portion of the vein on its dip which lies northeasterly of
the line ,-A and its continuation.
The question is a new one in this court, but we think it is
determined by the principles hereinbefore laid down. It may
be true that under the act of 1866 the patenting of the Providence Mine in its irregular shape was in all respects legal and
proper, and that the act did not require the location to be
made in the form of a parallelogram or in any particular form,
and that there was no requirement that the end lines should
be parallel. It i§ also true that under that act only one vein
could be included in a location, no matter how much surface
ground was included in'the patent, but that under the act of
1872 possession and enjoyment of all the surface included
within the lines of their location and of all veins, lodes and
ledges throughout the entire depth, the top or apex of which
lies inside of such surface lines extended downwvard vertically,
were given.
But rights on the strike and on the dip of the original vein
and rights on the strike and on the dip of the other veins, we
have decided, are determined by the end lines of the location.
In other words, it is the end lines alone, not they and some
other lines, which define the extralateral right, and they must
be straight lines, not broken or curved ones. The appellant,
under his contention, would get the right such lines would
give him and something more besides outside of them. To
specialize, he would get all within a plane drawn-through the
line g-A, and all within the planes drawn through the sides of
the parallelogram A-i-k-k' (Fig. 1).

OCTOBER TERAI,

1897.

Syllabus.

It may be that the end lines need not be parallel under the
act of 1866; may converge or diverge, and' may even do so as
to new veins, of which, however, we express no opinion, but
they must be straight -no other define planes which can be
continuous in their own direction within the meaning of the
statute. It may be that there was liberty of surface form under
that act, but the law strictly confined the right on the vein
below the surface. There is liberty of surface form under the
act of 1872. It was exercised in Iron Silver Mining Co. v. Elgin
Mining Co., supra,in the form of a horseshoe; in Montana Co.
Limited v. lark, 42 F~ed. Rep. 626, in the form of an isosceles
f'The decree is aflrmed.
triangle.

NEW ORLEANS v. TEXAS AND PAOIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. !.

Argued January 8, 4, 1898. -Decided

May 31, 1898.

Where an undertaking on one side is in terms a condition to the stipulation
on the other, that is, where the contract provides. for the performance
of some act, or the happening of some event, and the obligations of the
contract are made tO depend on such performance or happening, the
conditions are conditions precedent; but when the act of Qne is not necessary to the act of the other, and the loss and inconvenience can be
compensated in damages, performance of the one is not a condition
precedent to the performance of the other.
It being shown by the record that the railway terminus from which the extension along Claiborne street was -to be madb was never constructed;
and that the crossing from Westwego to the land in front of the park
was also never established, bot, on the contrary, that the company extended its road down the river to Gouldsboro, where it made its main
crossing, the right to the extenion and the right to the use of the batture no longer obtains.
The suspensive condition, by which the rights of the company under the
original ordinance were held in abeyance, operates also upon the lease,
and the mere payment of rent did not change the nature of the suspensive condition, or work an estoppel.

