OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

PENNSYLVANIA v. WILLIAMS

294 U. S.
ET AL.,

RECEIVERS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 394. Argued January 14, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.
1. A bill of complaint brought by a shareholder for the appointment
of receivers to liquidate an insolvent building and loan association,
allegations of diversity of citizenship and requisite jurisdictional
amount being unchallenged, is within the jurisdiction of the federal
District Court. Jud. Code, § 24; 28 U. S. C., § 41 (1). P. 180.
2. Whether a shareholder of the insolvent corporation, rather than a
judgment creditor, may properly bring the suit, and whether under
the state law the present shareholder has the status of a creditor,
are questions which go to the propriety of the action of the court
as a court of equity and not to its jurisdiction as a federal court.
P. 181.
3. Objection to the equity jurisdiction of the District Court may be
waived by the parties by consent or by failure to make it seasonably. P. 181.
4. The authority of the federal District Court to hear and make disposition of a cause within its jurisdiction is not subject to collateral
attack nor to diminution or control by state statutes; and error in
the exercise of that jurisdiction can be remedied only by appeal.
P. 182.
5. A shareholder in an insolvent Pennsylvania building and loan
association brought a bill of complaint in the federal District
Court for that State, alleging diversity of citizenship and the requisite jurisdictional amount and praying for the appointment of
receivers to liquidate the business and for an injunction restraining
creditors and others from interfering with or taking possession of
the property. Statutes of Pennsylvania provided a procedure for
the liquidation of such associations, under the direction of a Secretary of Banking and substantially similar to receivership proceedings in the federal courts. There was no contention that the state
procedure was inadequate or would not be diligently and honestly
followed. Held, upon the petition of the Commonwealth invoking
its discretion, the District Court should have relinquished its jurisdiction in favor of the state administration of the corporate assets
by the state officer. Pp. 182, 186.

PENNSYLVANIA v. WILLIAMS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

6. The public interest requires that federal courts of equity exercise
their discretionary power with proper regard for the rightful independence of state governments in carrying out their domestic policy. P. 185.
7. A federal court of equity should be slow in the exercise of jurisdiction when it involves an unnecessary interference by injunction
with the lawful action of state officers. P. 185.
8. In the present case, the District Court may retain jurisdiction only
for the purpose of directing the surrender of the assets and property with all convenient speed to the state officer, the receivers to
retain only sufficient of the assets to pay their reasonable fees 'and
any obligations lawfully incurred by them, and for the purpose of
promptly discharging the receivers and settling their accounts,
whereupon the suit should be dismissed. P. 186.
72 F. (2d) 509, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 293 U. S.547, to review a judgment affirming a judgment of the District Court, 4 F. Supp. 779, denying the Commonwealth's petition for leave to intervene in
a proceeding for the liquidation of an insolvent building
and loan association and for an order directing the federal
court receivers to surrender the assets to the state Secretary of Banking.

Mr. Wm.A. Schnader, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. Harold D. Saylor, Deputy Attorney
General, was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Gordon A. Block, with whom Messrs. Grover C.
Ladner and Abraham L. Freedman were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case certiorari was granted, directed to the
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, to repolve questions of public importance growing out of the rival claims
of a federal district court and the Department of Banking
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; each asserts authority to liquidate the business and affairs of an insolvent

OCTOBER TERM, .1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

building and loan association, organized under the laws
of Pennsylvania.
On February 9, 1933, a New York shareholder in Mortgage Building and Loan Association, a Pennsylvania corporation, on behalf of himself and other shareholders filed
a bill of complaint in the district court for eastern Pennsylvania, naming the Association as defendant, and alleging that it was the result of the merger of several
building and loan associations, in one of which the plaintiff in the suit was a shareholder, and that he had refused
to participate in the merger and had demanded of the
Association cancellation and payment of his shares. The
bill alleged the insolvency of the Association and a
threatened race of diligence by its creditors to satisfy
their claims from the assets of the corporation, and prayed
the appointment of receivers for the corporation, the liquidation of its business and assets, and the usual injunction restraining creditors and others from interfering with
or taking possession of its property. Therdupon, on the
same day, and on the appearance of the defendant corporation, which interposed no objection, the district judge
appointed temporary receivers. No notice of the application was given to the corporation's creditors or other shareholders, or to the Department of Banking of the Commonwealth. On the following day the corporation filed
its answer, admitting the material allegations in the bill
of complaint and joining in its prayer.
On that day the Secretary of Banking informally requested the district judge not to make the appointment of the receivers permanent and to allow the property of the., defendant to be surrendered to the Secretary, to be liquidated and administered in accordance
with the state statutes. On March 27, 1933, the Commonwealth filed its petition in the district court, asking
leave to intervene in the pending equity proceeding and
for an order directing the receivers to surrender the assets

PENNSYLVANIA v. WILLIAMS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

of the defendant association to the State Secretary of
Banking. In addition to the matters already stated, the
petition alleged the further facts, which are admitted or
established: that the Association, organized as a building
and loan association, is subject to the supervision of the
State Department of Banking, as provided by the Banking Act of June 15, 1923, P. L. 809; that the statutes
of the Commonwealth afford a complete, comprehensive
and economical scheme for liquidation by the Secretary
of Banking of such a building and loan association, when
insolvent or in a financially unsound condition; that § 21
of the statute, providing that the Secretary, after notice
and hearing, may, with the consent of the Attorney General, take possession of the business and property of a
building and loan association when it appears to be in
an "unsafe or unsound condition to continu3 business,"
specifically authorizes the Secretary to take possession
of the property of the association when it is "in the hands
of a receiver appointed by any court "; that upon taking
such possession the Secretary is required, by § 22, to
issue and file his certificate to that effect; that pursuant
to the requirements of the statute, the Secretary, after
the prescribed hearing, had found the defendant insolvent
and in the hands of a receiver and that, with the consent
of the Attorney General, he had on February 17, 1933,
duly made and filed his certificate, "taking possession"
of the property and appointing a special deputy as agent
to assist in liquidating the defendant's business and
property.

The district court denied the petition of the Commonwealth and later appointed the temporary receivers, with
another, as permanent receivers, wh6 are respondents here.
It treatedthe case as though it were one of the rival
claims of a state and a federal court to jurisdiction over
the same subject matter and property, see Harkin v.
Brundage, 276 U. S.36, and held that the jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

the district court had attached when the bill of complaint was filed and that it was the duty of the court,
under the laws and the Constitution of the United States,
to retain that jurisdiction and to proceed with the liquidation to the exclusion of the state authorities. 4 F. Supp.
779. The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed
upon like grounds. 72 F. (2d) 509.
The Attorney General of the Commonwealth argues
here, as he did in both courts below: (a) that the federal
court is without jurisdiction to direct the liquidation in
a suit brought against the corporation by a shareholder,
since both parties are subject to and bound by the local
law, which provides for liquidation of a domestic corporation exclusively through the agency of a state supervisory
officer; and (b) that, in any event, the court in its discretion should have refused the appointment of receivers
br, having appointed them, it should have granted the
petition of the Commonwealth and directed the receivers
to surrender the property of the association to the state
official.
1. The statutes of the United States, as incorporated in
the Judicial Code, c. 231, § 24, 36 Stat. 1087, 1091; 28
U. S. C. § 41 (1), provide that district courts shall have
original jurisdiction "of all suits of a civil nature, at
common law or in equity, . . . where the matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum
or value of three thousand dollars, and . . . is between
citizens of different states." We do not douit that the
allegations 'in the present bill of complaint are sufficient
to establish the jurisdiction of the district cout as a federal court; that is to say, it properly invokes the.power
and the authority, conferred upon the district court by the
Constitution and statutes of the United States, to entertain the suit. The bill alleges diversity of citizenship and
the requisite jurisdictional amount, both of which allegations stand unchallenged, see Philadelphia,Wilmington

PENNSYLVANIA v. WILLIAMS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

& Baltimore R. Co. v. Quigley, 21 How. 202, 214;
Deputron v. Young, 134 U. S. 241, 251; Healy v. Ratta,
292 U. S. 263, 271, and prays relief which a federal court
of equity is competent to give, see Duignan v. United
States, 274 U. S. 195, 199.
Although, as will presently appear, the district judge
in the exercise of his discretion might appropriately have
given notice, to the officers of the Department of Banking,
of the application for the appointment of receivers, such
notice was not prerequisite to the exercise of its jurisdiction. See Harkin v. Brundage, supra; Re Metropolitan
Railway Receivership, 208 U. S. 90; cf. Matin v. Augedahl, 247 U. S. 142.
. The objection that the suit was brought by a shareholder of the insolvent corporation rather than by its
judgment creditor, see Burnrite Coal Briquette Co, v.
Riggs, 274 U. S. 208, as well as the opposing contention
that under Pennsylvania law the present shareholder has
the status of a creditor, see Nice Ball Bearing Co. v.
Mortgage Building & Loan Association, 310 Pa. 560; 166
Atl. 239, need not now be considered. Even if valid it
does not go to the jurisdiction of the district court as a
federal court, but only to the propriety of its action as
a court of equity. See Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S. 355,
358, 359; Blythe v. Hinckley, 173 U. S. 501, 507; Pusey
& Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U. S. 491, 500; Twist v.
Prairie Oil & Gas Co., 274 U. S. 684, 690. Unlike the
objection that the court is without jurisdiction as a federal court, see Mansfield, Cold Water & Lake MichiganRy.
Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382, the parties may waive
their objections to the equity jurisdiction by consent,
Hollins v. Brierfield Coal & Iron Co., 150 U. S. 371, 380;
Re Metropolitan Railway Receivership, supra, 109, 110,
or by failure to take it seasonably, Brown v. Lake Supe-.
rior Iron Co., 134 U. S. 530, 535, 536; Southern Pacific R.
Co. v. United States (No. 1), 200 U. S. 341, 349. Even if

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

the present objection be regarded as valid and as one
which, in some circumstances, the court should take sua
sponte at any stage of the proceedings, despite the waiver
by the parties, compare Harkin v. Brundage, supra, 52;
Lewis v. Cocks, 23 Wall. 466, 470, the district court was
not without jurisdiction as a federal court, for these are
questions which it is competent to decide. It was therefore
invested with authority to hear and make disposition of
the cause, which is not open to collateral attack, see Bryan
v. Kennett, 113 U. S. 179, 198; Johnson v. ManhattanRy.
Co., 289 U. S. 479, 496, or subject to diminution or control by state statutes. See United States v. Howland, 4
Wheat. 108, 115; Neves v. Scott, 13 How. 268, 272;
Mississippi Mills v. Cohn, 150 U. S. 202,- 204-206; Mason
v. United States, 260 U. S. 545, 557. Error in the exercise
of that jurisdiction can be remedied only by appeal. See
Smith v. McKay, supra, 358, 359.
2. The question remains whether, in the special circumstances of the case, the district court rightly retained
its jurisdiction. The relief prayed in the bill of complaint is equitable in its nature, and the prayer was addressed to the sound discretion which is the controlling
guide of judicial action in every phase of a suit in equity.
The relief sought, an injunction and the appointment of
receivers, was aimed at the prevention of irreparable injury, from the waste of the assets of the insolvent corporation which would ensue from a race of creditors to secure
payment of their claims by forced sale of the corporate
property. By local statutes elaborate provision is made
for accomplishing the same end, through the acti6n of a
state officer, in substantially the same manner and without substantially different results from those to be attained in receivership proceedings in the federal courts.1
'The Pennsylvania Banking Act of 1923, P. L. 809, as amended by
the Acts of 1927, P. L. 762; 1931, P. L. 193, 563; 1932, P. L. 7,
provides for the regulation and supervision of financial institutions,

PENNSYLVANIA v. WILLIAMS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

There is no allegation or contention that the procedure
thus provided is inadequate, or that it will not be diligently and honestly followed. In such circumstances the
discretion of the district court, invoked by the petition of the commonwealth, should have been exercised
to relinquish the jurisdiction in favor of the statutory administration of the corporate assets by the
state officer.
The question is not the ordinary one of comity between
a federal and a state court, each asserting jurisdiction
over the same subject matter and the same property,
and where there are shown no special reasons addressed
to the discretion of the court first acquiring jurisdiction
for relinquishing its jurisdiction in favor of the other.
Compare McClellan v. Carland,217 U. S. 268, 281, 282;
including building and loan associations. Section 21 authorizes the
Secretary to take possession of the business and property of a building and loan association if its condition is "unsafe or unsound," or
if the association has violated the law or an order of the Secretary;
he can take possession only after notice and hearing and after securing
the approval of the Attorney General. Section 22 requires the Secretary to file a certificate in his office and in that of the prothonotary
of the court having jurisdiction (by § 19 the Court of Common Pleas
of Dauphin County or of the county in which the corporation is
located), stating that he has taken possession of the business and
property of the association. The association may, under § 23, obtain
court review of the action, by application within ten days for a show
cause rule. The Secretary, after giving notice to all persons holding
assets of the association (§ 25), and after taking an inventory of the
assets (§ 26), may either suspend or continue the business pending
determination of whether or not to liquidate the affairs of the association (§ 27). By § 28 the Secretary is authorized to surrender possession upon the resumption of business by the association or the sale
of its assets to a successor or independent corporation. Although the
authority of the Secretary is not derived from the action of any court,
§ 29 gives him, "except as herein otherwise provided," the status
and powers of a receiver of a court of equity. The court having jurisdiction is given, by § 30, power to enforce orders of the Secretary.
Under § 31 his possession continues until liquidation, resumption of

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Hyde v. Stone, 20 How. 170, 175; Chicot County v. Sherwood, 148 U. S. 529, 534; In re Chetwod, 165 U. S. 443,
460, with Harkin v. Brundage, supra; Rogers v. Guaranty
Trust Co., 288 U. S. 123; Kansas City Pipe Line Co. v.
Fidelity Title & Trust Co., 217 Fed. 187 (C. C. A. 8th);
First National Bank of Memphis v. Horuff, 65 F. (2d) 318
(C. C. A. 5th). Here no state court is asserting jurisdiction, but the state officer, charged by the statutes of
the state with the duty of supervising its own building and
loan associations and of liquidating them by an adequate
procedure when insolvent, asks to proceed with the liquidation. See Amos v. Trust Co. of Florida,54 F. (2d) 286,
288 (C. C. A. 5th).
business by the association, surrender under § 28, the substitution of
liquidating trustees elected by shareholders or appointed by the court
as provided in § 50, or payment of the creditors in full. The Secretary is authorized to compromise claims (§ 34) and to prosecute or
defend suits (§ 35). During his possession, no lien shall attach or
execution issue against the property of- the corporation, and no
pledgee shall, without permission of the Secretary or order of the
court, sell the collateral or pledge (§ 36). Before liquidation, the
Secretary must give notice to creditors and depositors (§ 41) and
have an inventory and appraisement made by disinterested persons
(§ 38). By § 45 the Secretary must submit a final or partial account
of claims allowed or rejected, and any party in interest may file objections in the court; if no account is submitted within one year, a court
order directing its submission may be obtained. Section 46 provides
that the account is binding and conclusive, except as to those parts
to which objection has been made in court, and directs distribution
in accordance. therewith. If the account were partial, its confirmation is not conclusive on claims specified in subsequent accounts
(§ 47). The court is to hear and determine matters in controversy
(§ 48). Expenses of administration are to be paid out of the association's funds and are subject to the approval of the court (§ 49).
Section 50 provides for the election of liquidating trustees by the
shareholders, or appointment by the court in default of election, if a
balance remains after the final account has been filed and the creditors
paid in full.

PENNSYLVANIA v. WILLIAMS.
176

Opinion of the Court.

A court of equity, which in its discretion may refuse
to protect private rights when the exercise of its jurisdiction would be prejudicial to the public interest, see
Greathouse v. Dern, 289 U. S. 352, 359. 360, or deny relief
upon performance of a condition which will safeguard
the public interest and secure substantial justice to the
complainant, see HarrisonviUle v. Dickey Clay Co., 289
U. S. 334, 338, would seem bound to stay its hand in the
public interest where it reasonably appears that the private right will not suffer. 'It is in the public interest that
federal courts of equity should exercise their discretionary power with proper regard for the rightful independence of state governments in carrying out their domestic
policy. Fenner v. Boykin, 271 U. S. 240, 243, 244; Massachusetts State Grange v. Benton, 272 U. S. 525, 527;
Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521, 525; cf. Central
Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission of
Kentucky, 290 U. S-. 264, 273. It has long been accepted
practice for the federal courts to relinquish their jurisdiction in favor of the state courts, where its exercise would
involve control of or interference with the internal affairs
of a domestic corporation of the state. See *Rogers v.
Guaranty Trust Co., supra, 130, 131; compare Burnrite
Coal Briquette Co. v. Riggs, supra, 212, 213; Canada
Malting Co. v. Paterson Steamships, Ltd., 285 U. S. 413,
419-423; Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531, 541. There
are stronger reasons for adopting a like practice where
the exercise of jurisdiction involves an unnecessary
interference by injunction with the lawful action of state.
officers. Matthews v. Rodgers, supra, 525.
Here, upon presentation of the application for appointment of receivers, which would involve such an interference, the district judge might appropriately have required notice of the application to be given to the state
officers. It was his duty to do so if satisfied that the delay

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

involved in adopting that course would not result in the
sacrifice of any vital interest of the insolvent corporation,
its creditors or its stockholders. On the showing that
their interests would be adequately protected by liquidation under the direction of the Secretary of Banking,
the district judge should have denied the application for
the appointment of receivers or, if he had already appointed them, should have discharged the receivers, and
directed the surrender of the property in their possession
to the Secretary in order that the liquidation might proceed under the state statutes.
That course should be pursued now. For that purpose
the decree will be reversed and the cause remanded. The
district court will direct that all assets and property in
the possession of the receivers be, with all convenient
speed, surrendered to the Secretary of Banking, the receivers retaining only sufficient of the assets of the defendant association to pay their reasonable fees and any
obligations lawfully incurred by them. Jurisdiction will
be retained by the district court only for that purpose and
for the purpose of promptly discharging the receivers and
settling their accounts, after which the suit will be dismissed. See Harkin v. Brundage, supra, 57, 58.
Reversed.
GORDON, SECRETARY OF BANKING OF PENN-

SYLVANIA, v. OMINSKY

ET AL.,

RECEIVERS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 395. Argued January 14, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.
Upon the authority of Pennsylvania v. Williams, ante, p. 176, held
that the federal District Court for Pennsylvania had jurisdiction
of a suit brought by nonresident shareholders for the appointment
of receivers to liquidate an insolvent building and loan association

