HELVERING v. GRINNELL.
Opinion of the Court.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. GRINNELL, EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 268.

Argued January 16, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.

Property does not pass under a general power of appointment exercised by will, within the meaning of § 302 (f), Revenue Act of 1926,
where the person named as appointee elects to renounce the appointment and take as remainderman under another will, which
created the power.

P. 155.

70 F. (2d) 705, affirmed.

293 U. S. 543, to review the reversal of an
order of the Board of Tax Appeals. The Board sustained
the Commissioner in assessing a deficiency in a federal
estate tax because of failure to include in gross estate
the value of property which he thought had passed under the exercise by the testatrix of a general power of
appointment.
CERTIORARI,

Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Wideman and Messrs. Sewall Key and John
MacC. Hudson were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Bernhard Knollenberg, with whom Messrs. Allen
Evarts Foster and Harry J. Rudick were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1876, John 0. Stone died a resident of New York.
He left a will by which he created for the benefit of his
daughter, the decedent, Annie Stone, a trust fund, the
income from which was to be paid to her during her life.
The will provided that upon her death her share of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

estate should go and be applied to such persons and such
uses as she might appoint by last will and testament; but
in default of such appointment, her share of the estate
should go and belong to her children or issue, respectively,
by right of representation; or, in default of such issue,
to her next of kin. Surviving John 0. Stone, were his
widow and three daughters--namely, this decedent, and
Ellen J. Stone and Sarah J. Grinnell. These constituted
his only heirs at law and next of kin. The widow died
many years before the death of Annie Stone. Annie
Stone, the decedent, died September 24, 1927, unmarried,
without issue, and leaving as her sole next of kin her two
sisters just named. Her will provided "that what property or money I am allowed to dispose of by will under
the will of my dear father, the late Dr. John 0. Stone,
of the city of New York, I give, devise, and bequeath in
equal shares to my dear sisters Ellen J. Stone and Sarah
J. Grinnell, . . ." After the death of Annie Stone, the
two sisters in writing renounced their right to receive the
property under this paragraph of her will and elected to
take the property under the provisions of the will of their
father, John 0. Stone.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue declared a tax
deficiency of several thousand dollars in the federal estate
tax on the estate of Annie Stone, upon the theory that the
property derived from the estate of her father was required to be included in her gross estate in virtue of the
fact that she had exercised a power of appointment in
respect thereof. The Board of Tax Appeals, on review,
sustained the commissioner. The order of the Board of
Tax Appeals based on this holding was reversed by the
court of appeals 70 F. (2d) 705, upon the ground that the
property did not pass under the exercise of the power; and
consequently, an essential condition of § 302 of the act of
1926 was not present.

HELVERING v. GRINNELL.
153

Opinion of the Court.

Section 302, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 70, 71, provides:
"Sec. 302. The value of the gross estate of the decedent shall be determined by including the value at the
time of his death of all property, real or personal, tangible
or intangible, wherever situated"(f) To the extent of any property passing under a
general power of appointment exercised by the decedent
(1) by will, or (2) by deed executed in contemplation of,
or intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment at
or after, his death, except in case of a bona fide sale for
an adequate and full consideration in money or money's.
worth; .. ."
The crucial words are "property passing under a general power of appointment exercised by the decedent by
will." Analysis of this clause discloses three distinct
requisites-(1) the existence of a general power of appointment; (2) an exercise of that power by the decedent
by will; and (3) the passing of the property in virtue of
such exercise. Clearly, the general power existed and was
exercised; and this is not disputed. But it is equally clear
that no property passed under the power or as a result
of its exercise since that result was definitely rejected by
the beneficiaries. If they had wholly refused to take the
property, it could not well be said that the property had
passed under the power, for in that event it would not
have passed at all. Can it properly be said that because
the beneficiaries elected to take the property under a distinct and separate title, the property nevertheless passed
under the power? Plainly enough, we think, the answer
must be in the negative.
The contention of the government is that the tax is
imposed " upon the power to transmit or the transmission
of property by death; the shifting of the economic benefits in property is the real subject of the tax ....
the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

property in question passed to the sisters under the general power of appointment exercised by the decedent by
will within the meaning of the statute." But this involves the obviously self-destructive conclusion that an
unsuccessful attempt to effectuate a thing required by the
statute is the same as its consummation. The tax here
does not fall upon the mere shifting of the economic
benefits in property, but upon the shifting of those benefits by a particular method-namely, by their "passing
under a general power of appointment," and not otherwise. Acceptance of the government's contention would
strip the italicized word of all meaning.
The government relies upon Chase Nat. Bank v. United
States, 278 U. S. 327, and Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S.
497. In neither of these cases was the court concerned
with the meaning of the act. In the first case (p. 334)
the court said the tax was plainly imposed by the explicit
language of the statute, and that there was no question
as to its construction. The sole question for determination was as to the constitutional validity of the act. The
same is true in respect of the second case. Neither case
sheds any light upon the question here involved, namely,
the meaning and application of the statutory provision.
The court below leaned confidently upon the decision
of the New York Court of Appeals in the Matter of
Lansing, 182 N. Y. 238; 74 N. E. 882. That well considered case and this in principle cannot be distinguished.
We think the reasoning of the New York court as to the
meaning and application of the state law equally applies
to the federal statute here in question. There, as here,
the contention of the taxing authorities (there under the
state act, here under the federal act) was that the appointee
named in the will of the donee of the power took her
property thereunder and not under the will of the creator
of the power, notwithstanding the property had been
given to her by the will of the latter subject to the power

HELVERING v. GRINNELL.
153

Opinion of the Court.

of appointment. But the state court answered that the
power gave the appointee nothing and took nothing away
from her; that she had the right of election and could
refuse to take under the appointment and still hold the
property, since her title without was as good as it was
with the power; that she treated the exercise of the power
as a mere attempt and not as an effective execution of it;
and that it sufficiently appeared that she elected to reject
title from that source.
" Her rights were fixed by the will of her grandfather,
and unless changed pursuant to its provisions her estate
in expectancy would become an estate in possession upon
the death of her mother. . . . Although-the power was
exercised in form, her title was perfect without it and
she derived no benefit from it. The power was to 'dispose
of the remainder' and the remainder was not disposed of
but continued where it was. The attempt to execute the
power was not effective, because it did nothing. The exercise of a power which leaves everything as it was before
is a mere form, with no substance." [pp. 243-244.]
The opinion, p. 244, points out that the power might
have been exercised so as to have left the appointee with
no title at all; but that in fact it was exercised so as to
leave her the same title that she would have had if the
power had not been exercised. The same is true here.
"An appointee under a power," the court continued,
has the right of election, the same as a grantee under a
deed. . . . He can accept the title tendered or reject
it in his discretion. It cannot be forced upon him against
his will. He cannot be compelled to receive additional
evidence of title when he does not want it, and does not
need it because his title is perfect without it. His consent
is necessary before the attempt to exercise the power
becomes binding upon him the same as consent is necessary in making a contract or agreement. Declining or
refusing to take has the same effect as incapacity to take,

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

as in the case of a devise to a corporation. which has no
power to hold any more property because the statutory
limit has been exceeded. The title is not affected, but
remains where it was before." [p. 245.]
We granted the writ of certiorari in this case because
of an alleged conflict with Wear v. Commissioner, 65 F.
(2d) 665, and Lee v. Commissioner, 61 App. D. C. 33;
57 F. (2d) 399. The reasoning and conclusions of those
courts and of the court below cannot be reconciled. We
are of opinion that, to the extent of the conflict, the view
of the former is wrong and that of the court below is
right, and we hold accordingly.
Judgment affirmed.
FORREST v. JACK, RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 214.

Argued December 11, 1934.-Decided February 4, 1935.

1. The liability of stockholders for the debts of national banks is based'
on Title 12 U. S. C. § 64. P. 161.
2. As a general rule, the person registered as owner on the books of
the bank is liable, but the actual owner may be held though not
registered. P. 162.
3. Upon the death of the owner, his personal representative is exempt
but the liability attaches to his estate. Ib. § 66. Id.
4. No cause of action arises to enforce the liability until assessment
has been made by the Comptroller. Id.
5. The acts of the Comptroller may not be trammeled controlled or
. prevented by state laws.
Id.
6. In the absence of federal enactment supplying the procedure for
enforcing the liability against decedents' estates, the state laws governing claims against such estates are applicable insofar as they:are.
not inconsistent with such enforcement. P. 163.
7. Property that appertained to a decedent's estate is not liable under
§ 66 on account of assessments made after complete administration,
final distribution of all property and extinguishment of the estate.
Matteson v. Dent, 176 U. S. 21, distinguished. Id.

