OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
294 U.S.

Syllabus.

levels within the space occupied by the tiers of trays the
movement is not in the same direction, is immaterial.
It is enough that there is a movement of air in current
form following substantially defined paths through the
tiers of egg trays, sufficient to effect the desired transfer
of heat units. Claim 1 does not prescribe that a current
of air is to be maintained throughout the chamber. It
calls for the application to the eggs of a current of air
"of sufficient velocity to circulate, diffuse and maintain
the air throughout the chamber at substantially the
same temperature." This respondents accomplish by the
currents of air set in motion either directly or indirectly
by the movement of the blades of the propellers. The
.method is that of Smith. Respondents do not avoid infringement of the method by varying the details of the
apparatus by which they make use of it. Cochrane v.
Deener, 94 U. S. 780, 788; Tilghman v. Proctor, 102 U. S.
707, 730, 731.
Reversed.

WAXHAM v. SMITH

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 208.

Argued December 4, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1.Claim 1 of Patent No. 1,262,860, to Smith for a method of incubating eggs, held valid and infringed. See Smith v. Snow, ante,
p. 1. P. 21.
2. The claim is for a method or process and not for a machine or the
function of- a machine. P. 21.
3. A method, otherwise patentable, is not to be rejected as "functional" merely because the specifications show a machine capable
of using it. P. 22.
4. Infringement of the Smith method is not avoided by use of it,
whether more or less efficiently, in an incubator of different structure than Smith's. P. 23.
70 F. (2d) 457, affirmed.

WAXHAM v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

20

CERTIORARI

*

to review a judgment affirming a judg-

ment of the District Court holding a patent valid and
infringed.
Mr. Drury W. Cooper, with whom Messrs. Raymond I.
Blakeslee and Allan C. Bakewell were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Albert L. Ely, with whom Messrs. Charles Neave
and Leonard S. Lyon were on the brief, for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE

STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this companion case to No. 102, Smith v. Snow,
decided this day, ante, p. 1, certiorari was granted to
review a decree of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, 70 F. (2d) 457, which affirmed the decree of the
district court and held valid and infringed the first claim
of the Smith Patent, No. 1,262,860, of April 16, 1918, for
an improved apparatus and method for the incubation
of eggs.
The issues here, as in the Snow case, are the scope of
Claim 1 and its infringement as rightly construed. For
reasons stated at length in the opinion in the Snow case,
our decision as to the scope of the claim is the same as
in that case. Petitioner argues that the claim, if thus
broadly construed, is invalid, as an attempt to patent
the function performed by the petitioner's incubator. See
Risdon Iron & Locomotive Works v. Medart, 158 U. S.
68, 77. It is said also that the function of the machine
involves merely the application of the natural law that
heat units flow from warm to c6oler objects placed in
proximity. But the function which a machine performs,
here the hatching of eggs, is to be distinguishdd from the
means by which that performance is secured. It is true
that Smith made use of the difference in temperature of
* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

eggs in different stages of incubation, and the flow of
heat units from one to the other, in achieving the desired
result. He did this by arrangement of the eggs in staged
incubation and applying to them a current of heated air
under the conditions specified in Claim 1. By the use of
materials in a particular manner he secured the performance of the function by a means which had never occurred
in nature, and had not been anticipated by the prior art;
this is a patentable method or process. Corningv. Burden,
15 How. 252, 267, 268; Risdon Iron & Locomotive Works
v. Medart, supra, 77; Cochrane v. Deener, 94 U. S. 780,
788. A method, which may be patented irrespective of the
particular form of the mechanism which may be availed of
for carrying it into operation, is not to be rejected as
"functional," merely because the specifications show a
machine capable of using it. Expanded Metal Co. v.
Bradford, 214 U. S. 366, 382-386; Cochrane v. Deener,
supra, 787, 788; cf. Holland FurnitureCo. v. Perkins Glue
Co., 277 U. S. 245, 255, 256.
Petitioner's incubator differs only in unimportant mechanical details from the infringing machine in the Snow
case. In'it the eggs are set in staged incubation, at different levels, but in no particular order. They are subjected
to circulation of heated air, set in motion by fans, which
carries heat units from the warmer to the cooler eggs and.
maintains the air throughout the chamber at substantially
uniform temperature. There is a fresh air intake behind
the fans and openings in the ceiling for the exit of foul
air. There is no central corridor, the tiers of egg trays
being placed in or near the center of the chamber. There
are no curtains or similar means of guiding the. air currents set in motion by the fans. Two fans are placed on
the side wall at the bpek of the chamber. They turn continuously, and are so constructed and operated as to propel currents of air, which proceed along the sides and the
ceiling and floor of the chamber to the front wall, where

McCREA v. UNITED STATES.
20

Syllabus.

they are deflected in the direction of the fans and there
"drawn " toward them through the central part of the
chamber. Less than 1% of the air passes out through
the foul air exits in the course of making the described
circuits, so that there is circulation and re-circulation of
the air within the chamber. The evidence supports the
finding of the special master and of the two courts below
that the currents of air set in motion by the fans flow
continuously along defined paths.
The petitioner's machine thus employs every essential
of the patented method as it is defined by Claim 1. Petitioner does not avoid infringement of respondent's
method patent merely by employing it in a machine of
different structure than respondent's, whether more or
less efficiently. Winans v. Denmead, 15 How. 330, 344;
Sewall v. Jones, 91 U. S. 171, 184; Cochrane v. Deener,
supra, 789; Carnegie Steel Co. v. CambriaIron Co., 185
U. S. 403, 441.
Affirmed.

McCREA v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 249. Argued December 14, 1934.-Decided January '', 1935.
1. A seaman is not entitled to the extra wages and other relief afforded by R. S., ยง 4583, unless his claim was upheld, and his discharge granted, by a consul or consular agent. P. 27.
2. To entitle a seaman to double wages under R. S., ยง 4529, upon the
ground that payment of wages due, as therein provided, was refused or neglected "without sufficient cause," the delay of paymeut
must have been in some sense arbitrary, wilful, or unreasonable
P. 30.
3. Upon the demand of a seaman for his discharge, payment of wages
due, a month's additional pay, and employment on another vessel
homeward bound, the master of a vessel, busily engaged about his
duties on arrival in a foreign port and ignorant of the legal- basis

