OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

bility proceedings,5 they do not issue injunctions.' The
Act of April 3, 1926, 44 Stat. 233, added to § 129 a provision granting appeal "from an iriterlocutory decree in
admiralty determining the rights and liabilities of the
parties." This specification, taken in connection. with the
other parts of the section, indicates that Congress did not
intend to make appealable any other interlocutory decrees
in admiralty. Moreover, there is nothing to indicate that
Congress intended to allow repeated appeals in the class
of cases to which these belong. That would be contrary
to its long-established policy. The orders under-consideration may be reviewed on appeal from the final decrees, § 128, Judicial Code. Petitioners' contention that
'they are interlocutory injunctions under § 129 is without
merit.

Affirmed.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. SULLIVAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE. CIRCUrr COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 499.

Argued February 14, 15, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. Where shipments originating in Canada moved to delivery points
in the United States on combination through rates, an award of
reparation based on a finding by the Interstate Commerce Commission .that the
the international
able in violation
claim or finding

proportional rate for that part of the route from
boundary-to destination was unjust and 'unreasonof the Act, can not be sustained in the absence of
that the through rate was unreasonable. P. 462.

"Providence & N. Y. S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co., 109 U. S. 578.
The San Pedro, 223 U. S. 365. Hartford Accident Co. v. Southern
Pacific Co., 273 U. S. 207, 218. Marine Transit Corp. v. Dreyfus,
284 U. S. 263, 278.
°Benedict on Admiralty (5th ed.), § 70. .Patersonv. Dakin, 31
Fed. 682.
'Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How. 201, 205. McLish v.,Roff, 141 U. S.
661, 665.

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. SULLIVAN.
458

459

Opinion of the Court.

2. Where a through rate is just and reasonable, there is no damage
to the shipper as a result of a participating carrier receiving an
undue proportion of the charges. P. 463.
72 F. (2d) 587, reversed.

CFRTIoRARi, 293 U. S. 551, to review a judgment affirming a judgment of the District Court in a proceeding to
enforce an award of reparation by the Interstate Commerce Commission. 142 I. C. C. 543.
Mr. J. P. Plunkett, with whom Mr. R. J. Hagman was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Stanley B. Houck, with whom Mr. Ormie C. Lance
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent sued the railway company in the District
Court for Minnesota to recover $3,990.20 awarded by the
Interstate Commerce Commission as reparation. 142
I. C. C. 543. That court gave him judgment; the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed. 72 F. (2d) 587. We are
called on to decide whether the uncontroverted facts and
those found by the commission are sufficient to warrant
the conclusion that he sustained damage in cQnsequence
of violation of the Act by defendant.
Plaintiff, a wholesale dealer, bought carloads of lignite
at mines on the Canadian Pacific ,in Alberta, and sold the
same to retail dealers and others in North Dakota at Great
Northern stations in competition with other fuels. The
shipments moved on combination rates, being the sum of
proportionals made respectively by the Canadian Pacific
and the Great Northern,1 applicable from mines to destinations, and on through bills of lading issued by the
former, routing over its railroad to junction with the latter
'Canadian Pacific Tariff No. W-5379, I. C. C. No. W-723. Great
Northern I. C. C. No. A-5681, G. F. 0. No. 435-G.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

094 U. S.

at the international boundary and thence over the railroad
last mentioned to places of delivery. The 'combination
rates necessarily reflect agreement, express or implied, between the connecting carriers to establish a through route
for continuous carriage from origin on one to destination
on the other. Each proportional necessarily was a part
of the through rate and was capable of use only as such.
St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 136, 139,
note 2. They show the basis of division of charges between connecting carriers and serve precisely as do agreed
divisions of charges based on joint rates. A proportional
differs from a local rate in that- it covers only terminal
service at place of receipt or at place of delivery but cannot, as does the local rate, cover both. Lewis-Simas-Jones
Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 283 U. S. 654, 663.2 There
2As

to inland hauls of exports or imports by sea to or frbm foreign
countries see Mobile Chamber of Commerce v. M. & 0. R. Co., 23
I. C. C. 417, 425: "It is easy to-be misled by the use of the term
'through bill of lading,' for it implies that the originating carrier has
undertaken to carry the traffic from point of origin to an ultimate
point of destination--say, from Memphis to Liverpool-and that the
originating carrier under the present law is responsible for the fulfillment of this contract of carriage. But the through bill of lading
that is given by the rail carriers upon movements of traffic through
Mobile . . . to Europe is not at all of this character.

It is a receipt

on the part of the railroad for the carriage to the port and a receipt
by the ship line for the carriage from the port to Europe. This
receipt for carriage beyond the port is not given in the name of the
rail carrier, but in the name of the steamship company . . . is in

reality a separate bill of lading which is attached to. the -railroad bill
of lading . . . This practice of making a divisible bill of lading show-

ing the ultimate destination of the shipment by water, both of the
rates being sometimes stated separately-the rate to the port and the
rate from the port, or only one rate being stated, that to the portis a railroad practice instituted for the convenience of all concerned.
The ship line is operated in physical connection with the rail line,
but the rail line receives none of the ship line's earnings, makes no
division of A through rate with the ship, suffers hone of its loss, and
takes none of its hazards. The furnishing of a through bill of lading

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v. SULLIVAN.
458

461

Opinion of the Court.

was no applicable joint rate. The Great Northern collected the charges and paid the Canadian Pacific amounts
equal to the proportionals established by the latter.
Plaintiff and another complained to the commission alleging the proportionals filed by the Great Northern and
other American carriers to be unjust and unreasonable, in
violation of § 1. They did not attack the combination or
allege aught against the Canadian Pacific proportional.
They prayed merely reasonable maximum American proportionals and reparation to the extent of the excess over
such maxima. The commission found the American proportionals to be unjust and unreasonable so far as they
exceed specified maxima which it made applicable in lieu
of those assailed. It made no finding concerning the reasonableness of the Canadian proportionals or of the combination through rates. There being no claim or finding
to the contrary, the charges collected on these shipments
must be deemed to have been just and reasonable. Indeed, dissenting commissioners, without opposition on the
part of the others, state that they are affirmatively shown
to be reasonable.
The Great Northern was by the Act required to file
tariffs establishing reasonable proportionals to constitute
in connection with ship-side delivery at the port of Mobile is not a
contract by the rail carrier for shipment beyond at a specified rate,
or at any rate, nor does it carry with it any of the elements attaching
to the through bill issued by a rail carrier with a rail connection.
To call it a through bill of lading is therefore in fact a misnomer."
Through bills of lading issued under the Interstate Commerce Act,
§ 25 (4) (5), do not constitute "an arrangement for continuous carriage or shipment" within the meaning of the Act. Bills of Lading,
52 I. C. C. 671, 730. Export Bill of Lading, 64 I. C. C. 347.
The Commission deals with rates applicable to inland hauls above
referred to and with reparation without consideration of charges or
factors attributable to transportation by sea or in foreign countries.
Ullman v. Adams Express Co., 14 I. C. C. 340, 345. Chamber of
Commerce of N. Y. v. N. Y. C. & H. R. R. Co., 24 1. C. C. 55, 74..
Henry Marble Co, v, B. & 0. R. Co., 146 Ir C. C. 414.

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

and to be kept in force as factors in the combination
through rates applicable to plaintiff's shipments. Its failure to specify just and reasonable charges was a violation
of the Act. And, if injured thereby, plaintiff is entitled
to recover the damages sustained in consequence of such
failure. 49 U. S. C. § 8. Plaintiff invokes News Syndicate
Co. v. N. Y. Central R. Co., 275 U. S. 179, and LewisSimas-Jones Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., supra. But
neither is like this case. In each, shipments moved from
an adjacent country into the United States on through
rates made by joint action of the participating foreign
and American carriers. The American carrier, having violated the Act by failure to file any tariff to cover its part
of the transportation, collected freight charges found to
be excessive and, as one of two or more joint tort-feasors,
was held liable to the extent that the charges it exacted
were in excess of what the commission ascertained to be
just and reasonable. But here the charges collected
were not excessive, and confessedly the same amounts lawfully might have been collected without injury or damage
to plaintiff if only the connecting carriers had imposed
the charges by means of" joint" instead of the " combination " through rates that they did establish.
If defendant's proportional, added to that established
by he Canadian Pacific, had produced an unjust rate, then
to the extent that the total charge was excessive, plaintiff
would have been subjected to a disadvantage in competing with others selling fuel in the same territory. The
commission has power to determine rates to be unreasonable in violation of § 1 without determining whether their
application has resulted or will result in pecuniary loss or
damage to the shipper. It may determine whether a proportional constituting a part of a combination rate violates
§ 1, without passing upon the validity of the rate as a
whole. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States,
279 U. S.768, 776. But the commission may not order

GREAT NORTHERN RY. v SULLIVAN.
458

463

Opinion of the Court.

or permit payment of damages by way of reparation without finding that the amount of the charge was unjust
and unreasonable. News Syndicate Co. v. N. Y. Central
R. Co., supra,187. And defendant, enforcing an unlawful
charge to be divided between it and the Canadian Pacific,
would be liable as a joint tort-feasor for the full amount
of the excess. Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Sloss-Sheffield
Co., 269 U. S. 217, 231, et seq. News Syndicate Co. v.
N. Y. Central R..Co., 8upra. Lewis-Simas-Jones Co. v.
Southern Pacific Co., supra.
But the claim before us has no such foundation. Plaintiff seeks to recover the difference between the proportional
-established by defendant and that found by the commission to be just and reasonable, notwithstanding its fuel
was hauled from mines to the competitive field for a just
and reasonable charge. - That position cannot be maintained, for as to the shipments here involved, the Great
Northern proportional cannot be applied save as it is a
part of the through rate. There was a single charge which,
though based on the combination rate, was precisely the
same in amount as if the rate had been jointly made. As
shown by our decision in Louisville & N. R. Co. r. SlossSheffield Co., supra, 234, the division among connectingcarriers of charges based on joint rates--those involved in
that case were constructed out of existing proportionals-is no concern of the shipper. The proportionals here involved are but parts of a through rate and cannot be
distinguished from divisions of a joint rate. Morrell &
Co. v. N. Y. Central R. Co.q 104 I. C. C. 104, 128. The
shipper's only interest is that the charge shall be reasonable as a whole. It follows that retention by the defendant of an undue proportion of just and reasonable charges
did not damage plaintiff. Louisville & N. R. Co. v. SlossSheffield Co., supra, 234. Parsons v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry., 167 U. S. 447, 460.

