OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

involved in adopting that course would not result in the
sacrifice of any vital interest of the insolvent corporation,
its creditors or its stockholders. On the showing that
their interests would be adequately protected by liquidation under the direction of the Secretary of Banking,
the district judge should have denied the application for
the appointment of receivers or, if he had already appointed them, should have discharged the receivers, and
directed the surrender of the property in their possession
to the Secretary in order that the liquidation might proceed under the state statutes.
That course should be pursued now. For that purpose
the decree will be reversed and the cause remanded. The
district court will direct that all assets and property in
the possession of the receivers be, with all convenient
speed, surrendered to the Secretary of Banking, the receivers retaining only sufficient of the assets of the defendant association to pay their reasonable fees and any
obligations lawfully incurred by them. Jurisdiction will
be retained by the district court only for that purpose and
for the purpose of promptly discharging the receivers and
settling their accounts, after which the suit will be dismissed. See Harkin v. Brundage, supra, 57, 58.
Reversed.
GORDON, SECRETARY OF BANKING OF PENN-

SYLVANIA, v. OMINSKY

ET AL.,

RECEIVERS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 395. Argued January 14, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.
Upon the authority of Pennsylvania v. Williams, ante, p. 176, held
that the federal District Court for Pennsylvania had jurisdiction
of a suit brought by nonresident shareholders for the appointment
of receivers to liquidate an insolvent building and loan association

GORDON v. OMINSKY.
186

Opinion of the Court.

and for an injunction, but that, in the exercise of a proper discretion, upon the showing made by the state Secretary of Banking, it
should have relinquished its jurisdiction in favor of that officer.
72 F. (2d) 517, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 548, to review a decree affirming a
decree of the District Court appointing permanent receivers to liquidate an insolvent building and loan association and enjoining others from interfering with the
property.

Mr. Wm. A. Schnader, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. Harold D. Saylor, Deputy Attorney
General, was on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Oscar Brown and Grover C. Ladner, with whom
Mr. Charles Polis was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes here on certiorari, directed to the
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, which was granted
to resolve the questions of public importance also involved in No. 394, Pennsylvaniav. Williams, just decided,
ante, p. 176.
On March 31, 1933, certain citizens of New Jersey,
shareholders in the Christian A. Fisher Building & Loan
Association, a Pennsylvania corporation, filed their bill
of complaint against the Association in the district court
for eastern Pennsylvania. The bill alleged the requisite
diversity of citizenship and jurisdictional amount; that
the Association was insolvent; that its assets might be
dissipated and sacrificed in the efforts of creditors to realize payment of their claims from its property, and prayed
the appointment of receivers and an injunction. Thereafter, the Secretary of Banking, acting under the Banking
Act of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania of June 15,
1923, P. L. 809, after due hearing, found the Association

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

to be insolvent; and on April 8, 1033, he issued and filed
his certificate, taking possession of the association and
appointing a special deputy agent to assist in the liquidation of its business and property. The state Secretary of
Banking, petitioner here, was substituted as-defendant in
the pending suit and filed an answer, in which he set
up the action taken by him and prayed that the bill of
complaint be dismissed. After a hearing upon bill and
answer, the district judge entered his decree appointing
permanent receivers, respondents here, and enjoining all
persons from taking possession of, or interfering with, the
property of the defendant. The decree was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. 72 F. (2d)
517.
For reasons stated at length in Pennsylvania v. Williams, supra, we conclude that the district court acquired
jurisdiction of the cause upon the filing of the bill of
complaint in that court. See also No. 431, Penn General
Casualty Co. v. Pennsylvania ex rel. Schnader, Attorney
General, decided this day, post, p. 189. But we think that,
upon the bare showing in a shareholder's bill that the
defendant corporation was insolvent, the court Would have
been well within the exercise of a proper discretion had
it declined the appointment of receivers and directed a
dismissal of the bill for want of equity. In any event,
the allegations of the answer, that the possession and
control of the assets of the defendant by the Secretary
of Banking, pursuant to statute, will result in -the preservation of the assets of the defendant and the proper distribution of funds realized from their liquidation, are not
challenged. The considerations which should have induced the district court, in the proper exercise of sits
discretion, to relinquish jurisdiction in Pennsylvania v.
Williams, supra, should have led to the same result here.
The decree will be reversed and the cause remanded.
The district court will direct that all assets and property

PENN CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
186

Syllabus.

in the possession of the receiver be, with all convenient
speed, surrendered to the Secretary of Banking, the receivers retaining only sufficient of the assets of the defendant association to pay their reasonable fees and any
obligations lawfully incurred by them. Jurisdiction will
be retained by the district court only for that purpose
and for the purpose of promptly discharging the receivers
and settling their accounts, after which the suit will be
dismissed.
Reversed.
PENN GENERAL CASUALTY CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA EX REL. SCHNADER, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 431.

Argued Jaiiuary 11, 14, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.

1. Whether, in a suit involving the possession and control of property which is the subject of a suit pending in a federal District
Court, a state court has given proper effect to the proceedings and
order of the federal court, is a federal question reviewable on
appeal. P. 194.
2. It is an established principle, applicable to both federal and state
courts, that where these courts have concurrent jurisdiction of
suits in rem or quasi in rem, the court first assuming jurisdiction
over the property may maintain and exercise that jurisdiction to
the exclusion of the other. This is the settled rule with respect to
suits in equity for the control by receivership of the assets of an
insolvent corporation. P. 195.
3. When the two suits have substantially the same purpose and the
jurisdiction of the courts is concurrent, that one whose jurisdiction
is first invoked by the filing of the bill is treated as in constructive
possession of the property and as authorized to proceed with the
cause, at least where process subsequently issues in due course.
P. 196.
4. The jurisdiction conferred on the federal district courts by the
Constitution and laws of the United States cannot be restricted by
state legislation. P. 197.

