SWINSON v. CHICAGO, ST. P., M. & 0. RY. 529
Counsel for Parties.

SWINSON v. CHICAGO, ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS

.&OMAHA RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 383. Argued February 6, 7, 1935.-Decided March 11, 1935.
1. The Safety Appliance Act is liberally construed so as to give a
right of recovery for every injury the proximate cause of which
was a failure to comply with a requirement of the Act. P. 531.
2. In an action againht a railroad company under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act for injuries alleged to have been caused
by its failure to provide a car with a "secure grabiron or handhold" as required by the Safety Appliance Acts, the railroad
defended on the ground that at the time of the injury the plaintiff
(a brakeman) was using the grabiron as a foot brace to enable
him to release a handbrake, a use for which, the railroad contended, the device was not intended. There was evidence that
the grabiron in question was not sufficiently secure even for its
intended use (as a handhold) and also that the use to which it
was put by the plaintiff was customary. Held, it was error to
direct a verdict for the defendant.
72 F. (2d) 649, reversed.

293 U. S.546, to review a judgment affirming a judgment upon a directed verdict for the railroad
company in an action brought against it under the Federal Employers' Liability Act to recover for personal
injuries.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Ernest A. Michel, with whom Mr. Tom Davis was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Warren Newcome, with whom, Messrs. Samuel H.
Cady and William T. Faricy were on the brief, for respondent.

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE BRANDEis

294 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Swinson, a freight brakeman in the employ of the Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha Railway, brought
this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
in the federal district court for Minnesota. The accidentoccurred while he was releasing a handbrake at the end of
a tank car. The brake was tightly set. To release it required the application of considerable force to the brake
wheel. In order to exert such force, Swinson placed his
left foot on the running board, his right foot on a grabiron
or handhold, which consisted of a round iron bar bent at
the ends, attached horizontally to the under side of the
running board, and extending beyond it a few inches. As
he exerted foot pressure on the grabiron, the plank to
which it was attached split, and one of the bolts securing
the grabiron pulled through. As a result, he lost his balance, fell in front of the moving car and was seriously injured. The parties were engaged, and the car was used,
in interstate commerce.
Swinson claimed that the Railway was liable, independently of negligence on its part, because it had failed to
provide the " secure grabiron or handhold" required by
the Safety Appliance Act.1 The Railway contended that
it was not liable because the grabiron had been used by
Swinson for a purpose for which it was not intended; since
the purpose of Congress in requiring "secure grab irons or
handholds" was to supply an appliance to grasp with the
'Section 4 of the Federal Safety Appliance Act, Act of March 2,
.
1893, c. 196, ยง 4, 27 Stat. 531, provides that " Until
otherwise ordered
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, it shall be unlawful for
any railroad company to use any car in interstate commerce that is
not provided with secure grab irons or handholds in the ends and
sides of each car for greater security to men in coupling and uncoupling cars."

SWINSON v. CHICAGO, ST. P., M. & 0. RY. 531
529

Opinion of the Court.

hands, not to provide a foot brace or support to secure
leverage in releasing a handbrake. Although there was
evidence that the grabiron was inadequate and defective
even for its so-called "intended use" of being grasped by
the hands, and also evidence that the use which Swinson
had made of the grabiron was customary, the trial court
sustained the Railway's contention and directed a verdict
for it. The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment entered upon the verdict, 72 F. (2d) 649. Certiorari was
granted because the precise question, which is of importance, had hot been decided by this Court.
The Safety Appliance Act has been liberally construed
so as to give a right of recovery for every injury the proximate cause of which was a failure to comply with a requirement of the Act. Thus, although the Act was intended primarily for the protection of railroad employees,
it was held in Fairport,P. & E. R. Co. v. Meredith, 292
'U. S. 589, that a traveller on the highway could recover
for injury resulting from failure to maintain in usable
condition the power brake required by the Safety Appliance Act. Although this section of the Act was originally
intended for " greater security to men in coupling and uncoupling cars," it was held in Davis v. Wolfe, 263 U. S. 239,
243, that a freight train conductor could recover for an
injury resulting from failure of a grabiron, which he had
grasped while standing on the sill-step and signalling the
fireman. There, the Court said that an employee "can
recover, if the failure to comply with the requirements of
the act is a proximate cause of the accident, resulting in
injury to him while in the discharge of his duty, although
not engaged in an operation in which the safety appliances
are specifically designed to furnish him protection."
As failure of the grabiron was the proximate cause of
the injury, it was error to direct a verdict for the defendant. There was evidence on which the jury might have

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

found that the grabiron was not secure for use strictly as
a handhold; and that if it had been, it would not have
failed, since the use made of it by Swinson did not subject
it to appreciably greaterstrain. There was evidence, also,
that use as a foot brace was a natural and not unusual one.
For such a use of the grabiron, Swinson was entitled to
assume that it was secure. Compare Lehigh Valley R.
Co. v. Howell, 6 F. (2d) 784; Didingerv. PennsylvaniaR.
Co., 39 F. (2d) 798.
Reversed.

ALASKA PACKERS ASSOCIATION v. INDUSTRIAL
ACCIDENT COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA ET
AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 465. Argued February 8, 11, 1935.-Decided March 11, 1935.
1. The terms, obligations and sanctions of a contract are subject, in
some measure, to the legislative control of the State in which it is
made, even though it is to be performed elsewhere. P. 540.
2. Where a contract of employment is made in a State, though for
work in another jurisdiction and though the parties expressly
stipulate to be bound by the workmen's compensation law of that
other jurisdiction, if the State where it is made has a legitimate
public interest of its own to insure that the workman shall be
compensated for injuries suffered in the course of his employment
beyond its borders, it is not prevented by the due process clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment from allowing him its own compensation remedy for such injuries and from declining to remit
him to his remedy in the other jurisdiction or to substitute that
remedy in its own forum. Cf. Bradford Electric Light Co. v.
Clapper,286 U. S. 145. Pp. 540, 542.
The improbability that workers employed in California for seasonal occupation in Alaska, 3,000 miles away, and not to. be paid
until their return, would be able to apply for compensation when
injured in Alaska, or once returned to Californiawould be able to
go back to Alaska and successfully prosecute their claims; and the
probability that, if without a remedy in California courts, they

