JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
Statement of the Case.

120'

from which the assured or his representatives could reasonably imply such purpose or intent. The claim of
estoppel or waiver is not supported by the facts shown
and the questioned judgment must be
Affirmed.
JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 339.

Argued January 7, 8, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.

1. The power of a House of Congress to punish a private citizen who
obstructs the performance of its legislative duties, is not limited to
the removal of an existing obstruction but continues after the obstruction has ceased or its removal has become impossible. P. 147.
Held in this case that the Senate had power to cite for contempt
a witness charged with having permitted the removal and destruction of papers which he had been subpoenaed to produce.
2. The Act making refusal to answer or to produce papers before
either House, or one of its committees, a misdemeanor (R. S. § 102)
did not impair but supplemented the power of the House affected
to punish for such contempt. P. 151.
3. Punishment, purely as such, through contempt proceedings, legislative or judicial, is not precluded because punishment may also be
inflicted for the same act as a statutory offence. P. 151.
4. Where a proceeding for contempt is within the jurisdiction of a
House of Congress, the questions whether the person arrested is
guilty or has so far purged himself that he does not deserve punishment, are questions for that House to decide and which can not be
inquired into by a court by a writ of habeas corpus. P. 152.

63 App. D. C. 342; 72 F. (2d) 560, reversed.
Supreme Court, D. C., affirmed.

U. S. 543, to review the reversal of a
a writ of habeas corpus by which
discharging
judgment
the above-named respondent sought to gain his release
from the custody of the above-named petitioner, the
Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate.
CERTIORARI, 293

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

294 U. S.

Mr. Leslie C. Garnett, United States Attorney for the
District of Columbia, with whom Mr. H. L. Underwood,
Assistant United States Attorney, was on the brief, for
petitioner.
There can be no question of the power of the Senate
to require the production of the documents subpoenaed
in this case. McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135. It is
undisputed that the respondent did not produce all the
papers covered by the subpoena and in his possession or
subject to his control at the time the subpoena was
served upon him. In clear violation of its mandate,
he permitted relevant papers to be taken away, secreted,
and destroyed. This was a contempt of the Senate. The
fact that respondent put it out of his power to produce
the documents does not affect the right of the Senate
to punish him for this contempt-indeed, it adds to the
contempt-and the fact that some of the papers were
thereafter secured by the Senate from other persons does
not purge respondent of his contempt.
The power of the Senate to punish does not cease
because the act complained of has been committed. This
power of the Senate is necessary to enable it to perform
its legislative function. To assert that it ceases when
the act of contempt is complete is to withdraw the admitted power at the very time when its exercise is necessary.
Marshall v. Gordon, 243 U. S. 521.
Any facts or arguments presented on behalf of the
respondent going to show that he attempted to purge
himself of his contempt must be presented to the Senate,
which is the tribunal having jurisdiction of this contempt;
they have no place in the habeas corpus proceedings.
Henry v. Henkel, 235 U. S. 219, 229; Marshall v. Gordon,
supra; Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204; Kilbourn v.
Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; Re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661;
Kielle)y v. Carson, 4 Moore P. C. 63.

JURNEY v. MACCRACKEN.
125

Argument for Petitioner.

The power of the Senate to punish summarily for contempt is governed by the same principles as the power
of the judiciary to punish for contempt. The test is the
character of the act done and its direct tendency to prevent and obstruct the discharge, in the one case of a
legislative, and in the other of a judicial, duty and function. Marshall v. Gordon, supra; Toledo Newspaper Co.
v. United States, 247 U. S. 402. Since this power is
inherent in the courts and in the Senate (and House of
Representatives), the Senate may entertain a proceeding
to vindicate its authority and to deter other like derelictions. Ex parte Grossman, 267 U. S. 87, 111, 117-118.
It is not limited to the statutory remedy provided
(U. S. C., Title 2, § 194). Both may be availed of.
Re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661.
The documents taken by Mr. Brittin from the files in
the office of respondent were not all presented to the
Senate. Such of them as were recovered after being torn
up by Brittin were made available by the efforts of investigators of the Post Office Department. See Sen. Doc.
No. 162, pp. 106 to 116, 73d Congress, 2d Sess.
The assertion that full compliance with the subpoena
has been made ignores the facts. Immunity from contempt of the Senate cannot be claimed because an agency
of the Government has frustrated the attempted total
destruction of the papers and saved what otherwise would
have been lost, a result in no wise due to respondent. He
cannot thereby escape the consequences of this additional
contempt of the Senate and its process.
Tlhe respondent concedes, as he must, that the Senate
had the power to require the production of the documents
subpoenaed, and that the inquiry which the Senate,
through its committee was conducting was one which it
was empowered to. make. Also, necessarily conceded is
the power of the Senate to punish for the refusal to

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the House.

294 U. S.

produce. These things were settled by this Court in
McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135.
By leave of Court, Hon. Hatton W. Sumners, Chairman
of the House Committee on the Judiciary, argued the
cause on behalf of the House of Representatives, as
amicus curiae.
A challenge to the existence of any power in the Houses
of Congress summarily to punish for a completed act
interfering with the effectiveness of their inquisitorial
power, goes deep into the structure of the Government.
If Congress is indeed dependent upon the other branches
for the facts necessary to guide its legislative judgment,
then Congress is not in fact a responsible co6rdinate
branch of the Government. But the denial goes farther. It is a denial of all summary power from any
source to punish for a completed act interfering with
legislative processes. If respondent's theory were sustained, such power would not only be withheld from the
legislative branch; no other agency of government could
exercise summary power in behalf of that branch.
Whether or not even the slow, uncertain criminal procedure would be put in operation to support the Houses
of Congress, seeking to discharge a constitutional duty,
would depend entirely upon the other two branches of
the Government. Under such an arrangement, it could
not be held that Congress is a responsible, co6rdinate
branch of the Government. Congress cannot be held
responsible for not doing properly that which it does not
have the power properly to do.
Punishment for interference with governmental processes is not punishment for a crime in the ordinary sense.
It is a sort of consolidated power of government; of
substance of Mr. Sumners' oral argi~ment is taken from a
copy which was kindly furnished by him at the request of the
Reporter.
*The

JURNEY v. MACCRACKEN.
125

Argument for the House.

quick, direct action, originating out of necessity, which
goes with c-rtain duties assigned to the judicial and legislative branches of government as a protective and effectuating agency. If contempt were a crime in the ordinary sense, the individual proceeded against would be
entitled under his constitutional guaranty to trial by
jury. The legislative branch could not proceed at all;
courts could not proceed except in the ordinary way.
The sole concern of this extraordinary governmental
power is for governmental efficiency. Necessity initiates
it, justifies it, and fixes its limits. This Court has provided the yard-stick. In Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204,
232, it says: "Analogy, and the nature of the case, furnish
the answer-'the least possible power adequate to the end
proposed.'" So measured, when there is an equality of
need among the branches of the Government, there must
be allowed an equality of power. To hold that a branch
of the Government, manned by a personnel chosen directly by the people, answerable directly to the people, and
removable directly by the people, may not be intrusted
with enough power of itself properly to protect itself and
properly to discharge its constitutional responsibility,
is an indictment of the scheme of representative
government.
The House of Commons was never a part of the English judiciary. It drew no power or privilege of Parliament from that source. The House of Lords, when exercising judicial functions, did not do so as a part of the
legislature. It is true that during the confusion of powers and the shifting of power back and forth among the
King and Lords and Commons, each when powerful
enough moved across the line of its natural jurisdiction.
In isolated instances during those times the House of
Commons attempted to exercise at least quasi judicial
power; but suitors never resorted to the House of Commons. It was never recognized as a judicial tribunal and

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the House.

294 U. S.

its attempts in that direction were always challenged, and
were abandoned more than a century before we wrote our
Constitution. Even the judicial power of the House of
Lords had practically ceased to exist at that time; it
passed to the great law officers of the Government. Even
the power to impeach had fallen into disuse. Since 1715
there have been only two cases of impeachment, according
to the great English authority, Sir Erskine May. The
development of Cabinet Government directly responsible
to the House of Commons, the removal of judges by joint
address, and the subjecting of all public officials to the
jurisdiction of ordinary courts, removed the necessity for
this power and with it went the power.
When we wrote our Constitution, most of these powers
and privileges of Parliament had lost the support of
necessity and fallen away, leaving the fiction instead of
the fact of their existence. The privilege of judging of
the election of its own members has since passed from
the House of Commons to the judiciary. But this is
significant:, This power summarily to proceed against
those who interfered with the discharge of legislative
duties was as completely possessed and exercised by the
Houses of Parliament at the time we wrote our Constitution as it had ever been. Not only was that true, but as
the scope and difficulty of governmental responsibilities
had increased, the importance and the frequency of exercise of the inquisitorial powers of Parliament had continued to increase. Those parliamentary powers and privileges which had ceased to be sustained by necessity fell
away, while the powers, including this summary power,
which were sustained by an increasing necessity, became
more vigorous and more frequently exercised in proportion
to that increasing necessity. That tendency has continued
since our separation from Great Britain. As the affairs
of government become more complex and as the forces
with which government must deal in protecting the gen-

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
125

Argument for the House.

eral public interest become stronger, better organized and
more shrewdly advised, the necessity for a strong inquisitorial agency of government must increase. Access to
documents is indispensable.
This power of the House of Commons to punish for a
completed act which interfered with the effectiveness of
its process came attached to the legislative branch into
our Constitution, by adoption of that to which it was
attached. The contemporaneous practices of Congress
recognize this;, and this Court, in Anderson v. Dunn,
held to the limitation of judicial interference which obtained under the unwritten constitution. The effect of
Kilbourn v. Thompson and subsequent opinions, leaves
the former judicial and practical construction undisturbed
insofar as the inquisitorial powers of Congress are concerned.
Did the writing of our Constitution make any material
change in the general line of cleavage formerly established
under our unwritten Constitution between the legislative
and judicial branches of our government? The great
struggles of English constitutional history had been to
bring about a governmental arrangement under which
these branches would possess each for itself an independent power adequate for the discharge of its duties and
with the incidental purpose of fixing inescapable responsibility for their discharge. The facts of history leave no
doubt on that point, nor do they leave any doubt that it
was our purpose to preserve that arrangement. Did we
succeed in doing so? Parliament enacted bills of divorce
and attainder and some others which are semi-judicial.
These powers were not denied to Congress under the written Constitution. They were denied to the Federal Government.
The Houses of Parliament passed private bills semijudicial in their nature, but each session of Congress we
pass many private bills. Evidence is taken, witnesses are

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the House.

294 U. S.

examined, argument had, judgment given, and money paid
out of the Treasury. Yet the passage of these bills does
not make the Houses of Congress part of the judiciary.
The enactment of this character of legislation makes
neither the Parliament nor the Congress a part of the
judiciary.
Powers may be delegated to this Court to appoint
inferior officers. The exercise of that power would not
make this Court a part of the Executive branch of the
Government.
The Senate sits in the trial of impeachment. That does
not make it a part of the judiciary. The Senate sits in
conference with the President on the appointment of
executive and other officers. That does not make the
Senate a part of the Executive.
We did not create a new Constitution as a result of the
Revolution. All the pre-Declaration-of-Independence
conventions and resolutions show, whether from small
groups or from such sources as the Boston Convention
and the Continental Congress, the demand of the Colonies was not for a new Government or for a new Constitution. The complaint was that King George and his
Parliament were violating our Constitution which had
come down to us through the centuries as our heritage
from our ancestors. We fought not to free ourselves from
a Constitution, but to preserve it. Ours was not a true
revolution. It was a territorial secession' and a resort to
arms to preserve our existing Constitution. When we
wrote our Constitution we naturally brought forward in
the main our former unwritten Constitution. On this
point an analytical comparison of the unwritten and the
written Constitutions, the facts of our history and the
weight of probabilities agree.
Whether the test of necessity laid down by this Court
is to be applied for the Houses of Congress by the courts,

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
125

Argument for the House.

or by the Houses of Congress for themselves, and answer
given by them to the people for the method of exercise,
may sometime become important; but in either case, it
ought to be agreed that exercise of surm ary power by
any branch of the Government ought always to fall within the limitations of necessity as laid down by this Court
in Anderson v. Dunn.
With respect to making effective their procedure in
getting facts upon which to base official action, the necessities of the legislative and judicial branches of the Government in all respects are identical. Their procedure
is identical. Their need for protective and effectuating
power is identical. If it be true that Congress is a responsible coordinate branch of the Government, it is
difficult to conceive upon what political philosophy or
notion of our system one of the co5rdinate branches, the
judiciary, should be asked to deny to another cobrdinate
branch a power to aid in doing its work, which power the
branch of the Government of which the request is made
finds necessary in the doing of an identical thing, of an
identical importance, in exactly the same way, and by
the same methods.
The power of the national legislature to guard and make
respected and effective its own processes and the power
of the judiciary by its intervention to stop the exercise of
that power are directly in issue in this case. The possession of power by each of these branches to punish summarily those who interfere with its efforts to get the facts
necessary to discharge a governmental duty, is not a blending or confusion of powers, but their separation. Such
an arrangement gives to each the necessary power efficiently to do its work and thereby fastens upon each inescapable responsibilty for properly doing its work. Such
an arrangement also tends to the preservation of interdepartmental harmony and mutual respect and helpful-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the House.

294 U.S.

ness. Without such an arrangement there cannot be
responsibility. Without responsibility, there cannot be
efficiency.
If the respondent's contention is sustained, a witness
summoned duces tecurn before the Senate, for instance,
could assault the process server. That would be a completed act. He could not only refuse to respect the summons, but he could destroy the documents summoned,
after service. He coulu bring them into the presence of
the Senate and in its presence destroy the documents, and
that destruction, being a completed act, would relieve him
from all power of the Senate, coercive or otherwise. The
Senate could only go to the other branches of the Government and tell them about it.
If the same limitation rested upon the power of this
Court which respondent asks the court to declare with
respect to the Houses of Congress, a document vital to
a litigation could be destroyed after service of subpoena,
possibly in the court room, and yet the Court could do
nothing but appeal to the District Attorney. And if
he were persuaded to act, punishment would still depend
upon persuading the Judge, the grand jury, and each of
12 petty jurors. Doubtless there are many interests in
this country that would like to see that limitation put
upon the power of the courts, as well as upon the Houses
of Congress.
It is necessary to protect the interests of the private
citizen against governmental oppression, and it is also
necessary to preserve a sufficient strength in government
to protect the interests of the people. Government, in
order to be respected and to be able to protect the weak,
must be strong enough to compel respect for its mandates.
In a definite sense, under the test of necessity provided by the Court, this is a fact case. The Houses of
Parliament, before the Constitution was written, insisted
upon this power as a matter of necessity, and public

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
125

Argument for Respondent.

opinion agreed. They were experts on the question of
need. The same is true with reference to the judiciary
during that period. Since the writing of our Constitution, our judges, our members of Congress, British judges,
and members of the British Parliament, by practice and
formal action give their testimony that this power is a
necessity.
Consider the place of the Senate in our Government,
its relation to the people and the vast powers intrusted
to it by the Constitution. And yet this Court
is asked to hold that in a matter, however important, when the examination of documents is necessary, an individual who could help the Senate if he would,
may be guilty of every conceivable act of contempt and
interference, may paralyze its inquisitorial machinery, and
that there is no power by certain and speedy punishment
to establish respect and compel obedience and co6peration. If that were to be held, upon what basis could the
Congress claim to be a responsible cobrdinate branch of
the Government, or upon what foundation of fact could
the people hold it to that responsibility?
Mr. Frank J. Hogan, with whom Mes&rs. Edmund
L. Jones, and Duke M. Patrick were on the brief, for
respondent.
The acts complained of were past and completed acts.
The resolutiQn and warrant and the other proceeding
in the Senate, including the debate leading to the adoption of "the mode of procedure and rules" for the trial of
the case, reveal the intention of the Senate to try a private citizen for a completed (alleged) offense, for the sole
purpose of inflicting punishment as such.
The administration of punishment as such for a past
and completed act is criminal rather than civil in character. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S.
418, 441.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondent.

294 U. B.

Not only is punishment for crime a judicial function;
not only, under our Constitution, is the judicial power
sharply separated from the legislative and executive; but
it is contrary to the spirit of our institutions to treat anything as a crime unless it be defined and its punishmenf
fixed beforehand; or to permit imprisonment'to be imposed, as punishment, by any branch of the Government
except the judiciary. A person charged with crime is to
be tried by a court presided over by a judge learned in
the law, unbiased as to facts, and responsible to higher
authority for failure to follow the usual methods of procedure-either by reversal or impeachment. He is not to
be indicted, tried, judged and sentenced by a purely political body of our Government, where, after-hearing the same
evidence and being, presumably, governed by the same
rules of law, partisan reasons may result in a division on
the questions of guilt, and infliction of punishment based
almost entirely on party lines; a body responsible to no
higher authority for its ignoring of evidence or its disregard of settled law; from which, if the Senate's present
position be sound, there is no appeal; against which no
bill of impeachment can be brought.
Nor will it alter the character of the transaction to say
that, even.though designed and intended as a punitive
measure, it would also have remedial effects. In the first
place, the primary and not the incidental object is the
one which controls the nature of the punishment.
Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., supra. In the
second place, the record shows that under the circumstances it could not have had a remedial effect. The
offense with which respondent was charged, when tested
by any standard, constituted a criminal contempt.
In vain do we search the Constitution for any provipion
authorizing either House of Congress to try And imprison
a private citizen for any offense.

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
125

Argument for Respondent.

By § 5 of Art. I, a House may punish its own members
for violating its rules or disturbing its proceedings; and
that is all. But there are other provisions which vest
the entire judicial power of the United States in the federal courts exclusively (Art. III, § 1; Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 328); and others which command
that the trial of crimes, except in cases of impeachment,
shall be by jury; that in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right of a trial by an impartial jury;
and that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or
property without due process of law.
In Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, the first case on
the subject, the sole question presented was whether the
House of Representatives could take cognizance of contempts committed against themselves under any circumstances. This Court answered that question in the affirmative; but the case is ano authority for the existence of a
broad power, which, when formally exercised, cannot be
the subject of judicial inquiry. The extent of the implied
power, when any exists, was declared to be "the least
possible power adequate to 'the end proposed," (6 Wheat.
231), which, said Chief Justice White in Marshall v.
Gordon, 243 U. S. 521, "was but a form of stating that
as it resulted from implication and not from legislative
will, the legislative will was powerless to extend it further
than implication would justify."
The. opinion in Anderson v. Dunn was criticized and
limited in the next case on the subject, Kilbourn v.
Thompson, 103 U. S. 168. There the contention was
again made that the power of Congress or either House to
punish a person not a member for contempt was a broad
and unreviewable power. The Cout noticed that the
argument in favor of the existence of such a power rested,
first, oi%its exercise by the House of Commons of England,
from which it was said we derived our system of parlia-

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondent.

294 U. S.

mentary law; and, secondly, upon the necessity of such
a power to enable the two Houses of Congress to perform
their duties and exercise their express powers under the
Constitution.
In answering these arguments, this Court pointed out
that such power could not possibly be implied from the
powers which the Constitution confers expressly without
doing violence to the letter and spirit of the Constitution
itself, the source of all federal power whatsoever. Among
other things, the Court discussed the difference between
our legislative system and the English Parliament, observing that that difference had been judicially noticed
and applied by the English Courts themselves in Kielley
v. Carson, 4 Moore (P. C.) 63. The conclusion was that
while, under certain circumstances, eith'r House of Congress has power to deal with a contempt committed by a
person not a member, the exercise of the power is limited
to cases where it is necessary to the proper performance
of constitutional functions, and that judicial inquiry into
the circumstances is contemplated by our constitutional
form of Government and necessary for its preservation.
The Court there characterized the division of our Government into three grand departments-executive, legislative, and judicial-as one of the chief merits of our
system, and declared it essential to the working of the
system that persons entrusted with power in one of the
branches shall not be permitted to encroach upon the
powers confided to the others. It pointed out that the
power of Congress itself, when acting through the concurrence of both branches, is a power dependent solely on
the Constitution, and that such powers as are not conferred by that instrument, either by express grant or by
fair implication from such grant, are reserved to the States
or the people; that no general power of inflicting punishment was conferred upon Congress by that instrument,
and that any such implication was repugnant to other

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
125

Argument for Respondent.

express provisions, such as the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment, which had repeatedly been construed
by this Court and others of the highest authority as requiring in such cases a trial in which the rights of the
party shall be decided by a tribunal appointed by law,
which tribunal is to be governed by rules of law previously
established. To make what the Court evidently regarded
as a manifestly 'clear proposition doubly so, it was observed that of course neither branch of Congress, when
acting separately, can lawfully exercise more power than
is conferred by the Constitution on the whole body, except in response to an express constitutional provision to
that effect; and, in declaring that the judicial power shall
be vested in the Supreme Court and the inferior courts
to be ordained by Congress, the Constitution in effect
declares that no judicial power is vested in Congress or
either branch of it, save in the cases specifically enumerated.
In Marshall v. Gordon, 243 U. S. 521, this Court ap'
plied these controlling principles to a situation essentially
like the case at bar. In that case, decided as one of first
impression, the Court said that the power of the House
of Commons to punish directly for a variety of contempts
rested upon an assumed blending of legislative and judicial powers which would be destructively incompatible
with our tripartite form of Government. It declined to
accept the argument that either House of Congress had
such authority. The implied power "rests solely upon
the right of self-preservation to enable the public powers
given to be executed." The power "does not embrace
punishment for contempt as punishment, since it rests
only upon the right of self-preservation, that is, the right
to prevent acts which in and of themselves inherently obstruct or prevent the discharge of legislative duty, or
the refusal to do that which there is an inherent legislative power to compel in order that legislative functions

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for .Respondent.

294 U. S.

may be performed." Reviewing the history of the subject since the adoption of the Constitution, this Court
in that case was unable to discoveir a single instance
where, in the exertion of the power to compel testimony,
restraint was ever made to extend beyond the time when
the witness should signify his willingness to testify, the
penalty of punishment for the refusal remaining CODtrolled by the general criminal law, or any case where
any restraint was imposed after it became manifest that
there was no room for a legislative judgment as to the
virtual continuance of the wrongful interference which
was the subject of consideration.
In the present case it is patent that the Senate now
asserts on the ground of necessity the existence of practically the full power belonging to theHouse of Lords,
though this Court has distinctly held that it has no such
power by express grant or by analogy to that body.
We submit that the decision in Marshall v. Gordon,
supra, a decision neither weakened nor destroyed in any
subsequent case, clearly holds that while each House of
Congress may have-all power, by removal from its halls,
and by coercive imprisonment, necessary to enable it to
perform its constitutional duties, it is absolutely without
power itself to impose punishment for a past act, which
it may regard as contemptuous or a breach of its privileges. For such offenses, punishments must be inflicted
by the courts, as for other crimes, and under the safeguard of all constitutional provisions.
This is not to say that there is no power to continue
to deal with contemptuous conduct to prevent its continuance or immediate obstructive recurrence. The power
so to deal, and the limitation thereof, are made crystal
clear in the Chief Justice's opinion in the Marshall case.
In Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, 182 et seq., this
Court gave emphatic and unqualified approval to the.

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
125

Argument for Respondent.

decision of the Privy Council in the English case of
Kielley v. Carson, 4 Moore (P. C.) 63. In Marshall v.
Gordon, supra, this Court again refers at length to Kielley
v. Carson,and gives unqualified approval to. the principal
point there decided, namely, that the ancient power of
the British Houses of Parliament to inflict punishment,
as such, for contempts or other offenses, did not exist
in such legislative bodies as the Houses of Congress of
the United States.
The opinion in the Marshall case concedes that "when
an act is of such a character as to subject it to be dealt
with as a contempt under the implied authority," "jurisdiction is acquired by Congress to act on the subject,
and therefore there necessarily results from this power
the right to determine in the use of legitimate and fair
discretion how far from the nature and character of the
act there is necessity for repression to prevent immediate
recurrence, that is to say, the continued existence of the
interference or obstruction to the exercise of the legislative
power." But no tenable argument can be made to uphold the contention that, after the papers which had
been taken from respondent's office by Givven had been
returned and produced before and delivered to the Committee, the Senate, or any one else, could legitimately and
fairly conclude that there was "necessity," in proceedings
to punish in order to prevent immediate recurrence of
respondent's act.
Congress has the right to preserve peace and decorum
in its deliberations, to compel attendance of its members,
to admit them to membership and to expel them, and to
punish .them for disorder; to keep order in the halls of
Congress, and to that end to eject any one disturbing its
deliberations, and to seize and hold him until he may be
turned over to the proper authorities for trial and punishment if he has violated any law; and, as to witnesses, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondent.

294 U. S.

force a witness to attend before either House, or any
committee thereof, and to testify, or produce, under proper subpoena, material documents, and, as a means to that
end, to coerce him by imprisoning him until he does
attend and testify or produce.
For the offense committed by the past refusal to testify
or produce, the penalty or punishment remains controlled
by the general criminal law (see 243 U. S., p. 544).
Existing law (§§ 102-104 and 859, Rev. Stats.), enacted
by both Houses, and approved by the Executive, would
seem ample to provi.de for protection. But if anything
be lacking, Congress may supply it by law. See Marshall
v. Gordon, supra, p. 548.
McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135. solely concerned
the power to arrest a citizen and bring him before the
bar of the Senate to answer questions pertinent to an
inquiry being properly conducted by the Senate. In it
the principles established in the Kilbourn and Marshall
cases were in no sense qualified.
The cases involving proceedings under the general
criminal law to punish for conduct amounting to contempt, do not controvert, but admit, the accuracy of the
rule contended for by respondent. In re Chapman, 166
U. S. 661; Sinclair v. United States, 279 U. S. 263. The
Chapman case particularly recognizes and applies the
basic difference between punishment as such and punishment which is merely an incident to a coercive measure.
And this is twice pointed out in Marshall v. Gordon, 243
U. S. 521, at pages 542 and 547.
If, as petitioner contends, the Senate has the power to
administer punishment as such, then, we ask, Why is this
punishment confined (as petitioner, concedes) to imprisonment only? Why has not the Senate the power to
punish by fine or by both fine and imprisonment? If the
Senate may impose a sentence for the definite period of
ten days, why can it not impose one of ten months or two

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
125

143

Opinion of the Court.

years? And lastly, why may not, the imprisonment extend beyond the session? The answer is: Because the
power is remedial and coercive only.
Marshall v. Gordon, supra, and Toledo Newspaper CO.
v. 'United States, 247 U. S. 402, are clear illustrations of
the fundamental difference between the legislative and
judicial power to inflict punishment, as punishipent, for
contempt. Ex parte Grossman, 260 U. S. 87, recognizes
and'applies the difference between civil contempt and
criminal contempt as pointed out in the case of Gompers
v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., supra.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This petition for a writ of habeas corpus was brought in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia by William P. MacCracken, Jr., against Chesley W. Jurney, the
Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate of the United States.
The writ issued; the body of the petitioner was produced
'before that court; and the case was then heard on demurrer to the petition. The trial court discharged the
writ and dismissed the petition. The Court of Appeals,
two justices dissenting, reversed that judgment and remanded, the case to the Supreme Court of the District
with directions to discharge the. prisoner from custody.
63 App. D. C. 342; 72 F. (2d) 560. This Court granted
certiorari because of the importance of the question
presented.
The pqtition alleges that MacCracken was, on Februarf'12, 1934, arrested, and is held, fnder a warrant issued
on February 9, 1934, after MacCracken had respectfully
declined' to appear before'the bar. of the Seilate in respone to a' citatidn served upon him pursuant to Resolution 172, adopted by the Senate on February 5, 1934.
The Resolution provides!'

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U.S.

"Resolved, That the President of the Senate issue a citation directing William P. MacCracken, Jr., L. H. Brittin, Gilbert Givvin, and Harris M. Hanshue to show
cause why they should not be punished for contempt of
the Senate, on account of the destruction and removal of
certain papers, files, and memorandums from the files of
William P. MacCracken, Jr., after a subpoena had been
served upon William P. MacCracken, Jr., as shown by
the report of the Special Senate Committee Investigating
Ocean and Air Mail Contracts."
It is conceded that the Senate was engaged in an
enquiry which it had the constitutional power to make;
that the Committee 1 had authority to require the production of papers as a necessary incident of the power of
legislation; and that the Senate had the power to coerce
their production by means of arrest. McGrain v.
Dau'gherty, 273 U. S. 135. No question is raised as to
the propriety of the scope of the subpoena duces tecum,
or as to the regularity of any of the proceedings which
preceded the arrest. The claim of privilege hereinafter
referred to is no longer an issue. MacCracken's sole contention is that the Senate was without power to arrest
him with a view to punishing him, because the act complained of-the alleged destruction and removal of the
papers after service of the subpoena-was "the past commission of a completed act which prior to the arrest
and the proceedings to punish had reached such a stage of
finality that it could not longer affect the proceedings of
the Senate or any Committee thereof, and which, and
the effects of which, had been undone long before the
arrest."
The petition occupies, with exhibits, 100 pages of the
printed record in this Court; but the only additional aver'Pursuant to Senate Resolution 349, 72nd Congress, Second Session.

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
125

Opinion of the Court.

ments essential to the decision of the question presented
are, in substance, these: The Senate had appointed the
Special Committee to make "a full, complete and detailed
inquiry into all existing contracts entered into by the
Postmaster General for the carriage of air mail and ocean
mail." MacCracken had been served, on January 31,
1934, with a subpoena duces tecum to appear "instanter"
before the Committee and to bring all books of account
and papers "relating to air mail and ocean mail contracts." The witness appeared on that day; stated that he
was a lawyer, member of the firm of MacCracken & Lee,
with offices in the District; that he was ready to produce
all papers which he lawfully could; but that many of
those in his possession were privileged communications
between himself and corporations or individuals for whom
he had acted as attorney; that he could not lawfully produce such papers without the client first having waived the
privilege; and that, unless he secured such a waiver, he
must exercise his own judgment as to what papers were
within the privilege. He gave, however, to the Committee the names of these clients; stated the character
of services rendered for each; and, at the suggestion of
the Committee, telegraphed to each asking whether consent to disclose confidential communications would be
given. From some of the clients he secured immediately
unconditional consent; and on February 1, produced all
the papers relating to the business of the clients who had
so consented.
On February 2, before the Committee had decided
whether the production of all the papers should be compelled 'despite the claims of privilege, MacCracken again
appeared and testified as follows: On February 1, he personally permitted Givven, a representative 6f Western
Air Express, to examine, without supervision, the files containing papers concerning that company; and authorized

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

him to take therefrom papers which did not relate to air
mail contracts. Givven, in fact, took some papers which
did relate to air mail contracts. On the same day, Brittin,
vice-president of Northwest Airways, Inc., without MacCracken's knowledge, requested and received from his
partner, Lee, permission to examine the files relating to
that company's business and to remove therefrom some
papers stated by Brittin to have been dictated by him in
Lee's office and to be wholly personal and unrelated to
matters under investigation by the Committee. Brittin
removed from the files some papers; took them to his office; and, with a view to destroying them, tore them into
pieces and threw the pieces into a wastepaper basket.
Upbn the conclusion of MacCracken's testimony on
February 2, the Committee decided that none of the
papers in his possession could be withheld under the claim
of privilege.2 Later that day MacCracken received from
the rest of his clients waivers of their privilege; and thereupbn promptly made available to the Committee all the
papers then remaining in the files. On February 3, (after
a request therefor by MacCracken) Givven restored to the
files what he stated were all the papers taken by him. The
petition does not allege that any of the papers taken by
Upon the conclusion of the hearing on February 2, the Committee
made to the Senate a report (No. 254) setting forth the facts elicited.
Thereupon the Senate, by Resolution No. 169, directed a warrant to
issue, commanding the Sergeant-at-Arms to take MacCracken into
custody before the bar of the Senate; "to bring with him the correspondence . . . referred to and then and there to answer such questions pertinent to the matter under inquiry . . . as the Senate may
propound. . . ." The warrant was served on February 2, 1934;
MacCracken was paroled in the custody of his counsel to appear at
the bar of the Senate at noon, February 5, 1934. On that day (in
view of Resolution No. 172) he was released from custody under
Resolution No. 169; and the proceedings under Resolution No. 169
are not here involved.

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
125

Opinion of the Court.

Brittin were later produced.' It avers that, prior to
the adoption of the citation for contempt under Resolution 172, MacCracken had produced and delivered to the
Senate of the United States "to the best of his ability,
knowledge and belief, every paper of every kind and description in his possession or under his control, relating in
any way to air mail and obean mail contracts; [and that]
on February 5, 1934 . . . all of said papers were turned
over and delivered to said Senate Committee and since
that date they have been, and they now are, in the possession of said Committee."
First. The main contention of MacCracken is that the
so-called power to punish for contempt may never be
exerted, in the case of a private citizen, solely qua punishment. The argument is that the power may be used by
the legislative body merely as a means of removing an
existing obstruction to the performance of its duties; that
the power to punish ceases as soon as the obstruction has
been removed, or its removal has become impossible; and
hence that there is no power to punish a witness who, having been requested to produce papers, destroys them after
service of the subpoena. The contention rests upon a
misconception of the limitations upon the power of the
Houses of Congress to punish for contempt. It is true
that the scope of the power is narrow. No act is so punish-

'But the brief for MacCracken, the respondent, states: "By February 6th every recoverable paper involved in the Brittin incident
had been recovered and delivered to the Senate." The reference in
the brief is to the fact (to which attention was called by counsel for
Jurney) that, after MacCracken and Brittin had testified, post office
inspectors, acting for the Committee, searched the sacks of waste
papers taken from Brittin's office; and succeeded in collecting most
of the pieces of the papers which Brittin destroyed. By'pasting these
pieces together they were able to restore for the Committee most of
the papers removed from the Northwest Airways, Inc., files. (Senate
Document No. 162, 73rd Cong., 2nd Sess., pp. 106-116.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

able unless it is of a nature to obstruct the performance of
the duties of the legislature. There may be lack of power,
because, as in Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, there
was no legislative duty to be performed; or because, as
in Marshall v. Gordon, 243 U. S. 521, the act complained
of is deemed not to be of a character to obstruct the legislative process. But, where the offending act was of a
nature to obstruct the legislative process, the fact that the
obstruction has since been removed, or that its removal
has become impossible is without legal significance.
The power to punish a private citizen for a past and
completed act was exerted by Congress as early as 1795;'
and since then it has been exercised on several occasions. 5
It was asserted, before the Revolution, by the colonial
Robert Randall and Charles Whitney were taken into custody by
the House of Representatives, on December 28, 1795, on charges of
attempting to bribe some of its members. Whitney was discharg6d
on January 7, 1796, before trial. Randall, however, on January 6,
was found guilty of a contempt and of a breach of the privileges of
the House, was reprimanded by the Speaker, and was committed to
the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms until further order of the House.
On January'13, his petition to be discharged from custody was
granted, upon payment of fees. 5 Annals, 4th Cong., 1st Sess.,
166-195, 232, 200-229, 237, 243.
In 1832, Samuel Houston, having been arrested and tried by the
House of Representatives for assaulting a member, was reprimanded
and discharged on payment of fees. 8 Debates, 22nd Cong., 1st
Sess., 2512-2620, 2810-3022. In 1865, A. P. Field was taken into custody for assaulting a member and was reprimanded by the Speaker.
70 Globe, 38th Cong., 2nd Sess., 991. So too, Charles C. Glover, in
1913. Cong. Rec., 63rd Cong., 1st Sess., 281-283, 499-503, 1431-1453.
In 1870, Patrick Wood, for a similar offence, was imprisoned for three
months by order of the House. 94 & 95 Globe, 41st Cong., 2nd Sess.,
4316-17, 4847, 5253, 5J01. In 1795, Sen. James Gunn, whose challenge of a member of the House was considered a breach of privilege,
escaped with an apology. 5 Annals, 4th Cong., .1st Sess., 786-790,
795-798. See Shull, Legislative Contempt-An Auxiliary Power of
Congress (1934) 8 Temple L. Quart. 198,

JURNEY v. MACCRACKEN.
125

Opinion of the Court.

assemblies, in imitation of the British House of Commons; and afterwards by the Continental Congress and
by state legislative bodies.' In Anderson v: Dunn, 6
Wheat. 204, decided in 1821, it was held 'that the House
had power to punish a .private citizen for an attempt to
bribe a member. No case has been found in which an
exertion of the power to punish for contempt has been
successfully challenged on the ground that, before punishment, the offending act had been consummated or that
the obstruction suffered was irremediable. The. statements in the opinion in Marshall v. Gordon, supra, upon
which MacCracken relies, must be read in the light of
the particular facts. It was there recognized that the
only jurisdictional test to be applied by the court is the
character of the offence; and that the continuance of the
obstruction, or the likelihood of its repetition, are considerations for the discretion of the legislators in meting out
the punishment.
Here, we are concerned, not with an extension of, congressional privilege, but with vindication of the estab*See Potts, Power of Legislative Bodies to Punish for Contempt
(1926) 74 U. of Pa. L. Rev. 691, 700-719; Clarke, Parliamentary
Privilege in the American Colonies, Essays in Colonial History Presented to Charles McLean Andrews (1931), pp. 124, et seq.; May,
Law and Usage of Parliament (5th ed., 1863), pp. 83-97. Since the
American Revolution, it has been held that colonial assemblies of the
British Empire, have, in the absence of express grant, and "without
any usage, any acquiescence, or any sanction of the Courts of Law,"
no power to adjudicate upon, or punish for, contempts, Kielley v.
Carson, 4 Moore P. C. 63; even when the contempt is committed in
the presence of the Assembly by one of its own members. Doyle v.
Falconer, L. R. 1 P. C. 328; Barton v. Taylor, 11 App. Cas. 197;
compare Whitcomb's Case, 120 Mass. 118, 122. But upon some
colonial assemblies contempt powers as broad as those Qf the British
House of Commons have been conferred. Compare Dili v. Murphy,
1 Moore P. C. (N. S.) 487; The Speaker of. the Legislative Assembly
of Victoria v. Glass, L. R. 3 P. C. 560; Fielding v. Thomas, (1896)
App. Cas. 600.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

lished and essential privilege 6f requiring the production
of evidence. For this purpose, the power to punish for a
past contempt is an appropriate means.! Compare Ex
parse Nugent, Fed. Cas. No. 10,375; Stewart v. Blaine, 1

MacArthur 453. The apprehensions expressed from time
to time in congressional debates, in opposition to particular exercises of the contempt power, concerned not the
power to punish, as such, but the broad, undefined privileges which it was believed might find sanction in that
power.' The ground for such fears has since been effectiv'ely removed by the decisions of this Court which hold
that assertions of congressional privilege are subject to
judicial review, Kilbourn v. Thompson, sUpra; and that
the power to punish fQr contempt may not be extended
to slanderous attacks which present no immediate obstruction to legislative processes. Marshall v. Gordon,
supra.
'The many instances in which the Houses of Congress have punished contumacious witnesses for contempt are collected and discussed
in Eberling, Congressional Investigations (1928). See, too, Dimock,
Congressional Investigating Committees (1929); Landis, Constitutional Limitations on the Congressional Power of Investigation (1926)
40 Harv. L. Rev. 153; compare May, op. cit., supra, pp. 407, 408.
Witnesses found guilty of prevaricating before investigating committees have been imprisoned by the House of Commons under circumstances indicating that there was no thought of inducing further
testimony, but only of punishing for the past offence. See case of
Charles Woolfen, 112 Comm. Jour. 354, 372, 377; of Acton, Sheriff
of London, Petyt, Miscellanea Parliamentaria (1680) p. 108; of
Randolph Davenport, Id., p. 120.
'See remarks of Sen. Charles Pinckney in the case of the Editor
of the. Aurora, 10 Annals, 6th Cong., 1st Sess., 69; of Rep. Barbour
and Rep. Poindexter in the case of Colonel Anderson, 32 Annals, 15th
Cong., 1st Sess., 624, 654; of Rep. Polk in the case of Samuel Houston,
8 Debates, 22nd Cong., 1st Sess., 2512; of Sen. Sumner in the case of
Thaddeus Hyatt, 53 Gl6be, 36th Cong., 1st Sess., 1100; see, too,
Jefferson's Manual, §§ 293-299.

JURNEY v. MAcCRACKEN.
125

Opinion of the Court.

Second. The power of either House of Congress to punish for contempt was not impaired by the enactment in
1857 of the statute, R. S. § 102, making refusal to answer
or to produce papers before either House, or one of its
committees, a misdemeanor. Compare Sinclair v. United
States, 279 U. S. 263. The statute was enacted, not because the power of the Houses to punish for a past contempt was doubted, but because imprisonment limited to
the duration of the session was not considered sufficiently
drastic a punishment for contumacious witnesses.' That
the purpose of the statute was merely to supplement the
power of contempt by providing for additional punishment was recognized in In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661,
671-672: "We grant that Congress could not divest itself
or either of its Houses, of 'the essential and inherent
power to punish for contempt in cases to which the power
of either House properly extended; but because Congress, by the Act of 1857, sought to aid each of the
Houses in discharge of its constitutional functions, it
does not follow that any delegation of the power in each
to punish for contempt was involved; and the statute
is not open to objection on that account." Punishment,
purely as such, through contempt proceedings, legislative
or judicial, is not precluded because punishment may also
be inflicted for the same act as a statutory offense. Compare Ex parte Hudgings, 249 U. S. 378, 382.10 As was
said in In re Chapman, supra, " the same act may be an
offence against one jurisdiction and an offence against
another; and indictable statutory offences may be pun-,
ished as such while the offenders may likewise be sub-.
'See remarks of Rep. Orr, 43 Globe, 34th Cong., 3rd Sess., 404, 405.
"Samuel Houston was in fact indicted, convicted and fined in the
criminal court of the District of Columbia on account of the same
assault for which he was reprimanded by the House. See 2 Ops.
Atty. Gen. 655.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

jected to punishment for the same acts as contempts,
the two being diverso intuito and capable of standing
together."
Third. MacCracken contends that he is not punishable
for contempt, because the obstruction, if any, which he
caused to legislative processes, had been entirely removed
and its evil effects undone before the contempt proceedings were instituted, He points to the allegations in the
petition for habeas corpus that le had surrendered all
papers in his possession; that he was ready and willing
to give any additional testimony which the Committee
might require; that he had secured the return of the papers taken from the files by Givven, with his permission;
and that he was in no way responsible for the removal
and destruction of the papers by Brittin. This contention goes to the question of guilt, not to that of the jurisdiction of the Senate. The contempt with which MacCracken is charged is "the destruction and removal of
certain papers." Whether he is guilty, and whether he
has so far purged himself of contempt that he does not
now deserve punishment, are the questions which the Senate proposes to try. The respondent to the petition did
not, by demurring, transfer to the court the decision of
those questions. The sole function of the writ of habeas
corpus is to have the court decide whether the Senate has
jurisdiction to make the determination which it proposes.
Compare Barry v. United States ex rel. Cunningham, 279
U. S. 597; Henry v. Henkel, 235 U. S. 219; Matter of
Gregory, 219 U. S. 210.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals should be re,versed; and that of the Supreme Court of the District
should be affirmedReversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no

ation or decision of this case.

part in the consider-

