OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

KEYSTONE DRILLER CO. v. NORTHWEST
ENGINEERING CORP.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 131.

Argued December 5, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. Claim 4 of Patent 1,317,431, to Clutter, for improvements in excavating machines, held not infringed. P. 44.
The invention is said to consist in a "pivotal means carried by
the boom" of the machine, "and connecting the pulling member
therewith and with the scoop-carrying member," or ditcher stick.
In machines of this kind, the boom swings on a pivot at its base
and is pivoted at its other end to the ditcher stick near the top, or
inner end, of the latter. The specifications dand drawings of the
patent showed a pulley mounted between two links, pivoted to the
boom near its upper end, and two cross links extending from the
axle of the pulley to the top of the ditcher stick and pivotally attached to it. By tensing or relaxing a cable passed through the
pulley, the boom could be raised or lowered and the ditcher stick,
.bearing the scoop at its outer end, could be advanced or retracted.
Held, that in view of the prior art and of the file wrapper, the
claim cannot be construed broadly; and that it is not infringed by
devices which, doing away with the links and cross links, run the
cable over pulleys in brackets rigidly mounted to the boom and
fasten it to the top of the stick; or by devices in which a pulley is
attached to the top of the stick firmly or by a link pivoted to the
top. P. 46.
2. Where broad claims are denied in the Patent Office and a narrower
one is granted in lieu, the patentee is estopped to read the granted
claim as the equivalent of those that were rejected. P. 48.
3. Claim 6 of Patent No. 1,476,121, to Wagner, claiming means for
mounting a sheave at the upper end of the ditcher stick of an excavating machine and a hoisting line passed about the sheave for
raising and lowering the boom and stick, and also for moving the
* Together with No. 132, Keystone Driller Co. v. Harnischfeger

Corp., and No. 133, Keystone Driller Co. v. Bucyrus-Erie Co., certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

KEYSTONE CO. v. NORTHWEST ENG. CO.
42

43

Opinion of the Court.

stick outwardly lengthwise of the boom; and Claim 7 of the same
patent for a hoisting line connected to the top of the ditcher stick,held void for want of novelty. P. 49.
4. Claims 6, and 9-14, of Patent No. 1,511,114, to Downie, for a dropbottom scoop with side rake teeth, in excavating machines, held
void for want of novelty and invention. Pp. 49-50.
The fixation of the scoop to the ditcher stick, the pivoting of a
drop bottom near the front of the scoop, which can be unlatched
to drop the contents and closed by checking the momentum of the
scoop, and the addition of rake teeth to the sides, were all old in
the art; and their combination and adaptation required no more
than mechanical skill.
70 F. (2d) 13, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 539, to review the reversal of

three decrees obtained by the petitioner in three suits
charging infringements of its patents.
Mr. Clarence P. Byrnes, with whom Messrs. F. 0.
Richey and H. F. McNenny were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Frank Parker Davis, with whom Messrs. Henry
M. Huxley and Louis Quarles were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner brought suit against each respondent in
the District Court for Eastern Wisconsin, charging infringement of claim 4 of the Clutter patent, No. 1,317,431,
claims 6 and 7 of the Wagner patent, No. 1,476,121, and
claims 6 and 9 to 14, inclusive, of the Downie patent,
No. 1,511,114. The suits were consolidated and the court
found that the claims were valid and infringed. The Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that none of the respondents' machines infringed claim 4 of the Clutter patent,
and that the specified claims of the Wagner and Downie

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

patents were invalid for lack of invention.' By reason
of asserted conflict of decision 2 we granted certiorari."
The patents in question relate to excavator attachments used in connection with a base carrying suitable
machinery for operating the lines or cables controlling the
attachments. As the machinery on the base is no part of
the structure disclosed, it is not the subject of any of the
patents.

1. THE CLUTTER PATENT.
Claim 4 of the patent is:
"In an excavating machine a pivoted boom, a scoopcarrying member pivotally connected therewith, a pulling
member for elevating and lowering said boom, a pivotal
'70 F. (2d) 13.
'In Byers Machine Co. v. Keystone Driller Co., 44 F. (2d) 283
(C. C. A. 6) the claims were held valid and infringed. In General
Excavator Co. v. Keystone Driller Co., 62 F. (2d) 48, 64 F. (2d) 39,
the same court found that the owner of the patents had attempted
suppression of evidence of prior use, so aA to render, more certain the
sustaining of the Dovfie patent which was involved in the Byers case,
and had then used the decree in that case as the basis of application
for reliminary injunction in the General Excavator case. Without
passihg on the merits, therefore, the court because of the plaintiff's
unclean hands reversed a decree, finding validity and infringement.
We affirmed the judgment; 290 U. S. 240. Meantime the Circuit
Court of Appeals has permitted reopening of the Byers case and the
District Court, after considering proofs as to suppression, has again
found the patents valid and infringed. 4 F. Supp. 159, 160. Its
decree has been set aside by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 71 F. (2d)
1000, but it is not clear whether this action nullifies the finding on
the merits. Meantime, also, the District Court which decided the
Byers and General Excavator cases has, in another suit (against Day
& Maddock Company) found validity and infringement, and this
cause is now pending on appeal. The petitioner asserts that the
original decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
in the Byers case has never been set aside so far as concerns the
issues of validity and infringement.
' 293 U. S. 539..

KEYSTONE CO. v. NORTHWEST ENG. CO.
42

45

Opinion of the Court.

means carried by the boom and connecting the pulling
member therewith, and [with] said scoop-carrying member, a scoop connected with the scoop-carrying member
and projecting toward the boom, and a pulling member
connected with said scoop."
In the patent drawing is shown a boom pivoted at its
base, and a scoop-carrying member, often called a ditcher
stick, pivoted to the outer end of the boom. On the boom
near its outer end are two uprights, pivoted to the boom,
which support a pulley. Two links extend from the axle
of the pulley to the top of the ditcher stick, to which they
are pivotally attached. The purpose of the contrivance
is to raise and lower the boom and to advance or retract
the scoop by taking up or slacking a cable passed through
the pulley. A second cable, attached to the scoop, limits
the outreach of the ditcher stick and pulls the scoop
toward the base to fill it with earth. Thus by tension on
the hoisting line the boom can be raised and the scoop
held out beyond the end of the boom, by slacking on that
line the boom can be lowered until the scoop comes into
contact with the earth, by tension on the scoop-line the
scoop can be pulled against the earth until it is filled.
By again taking up on the hoisting line the boom can
be raised, the scoop extended, and placed in position for
the discharge of its contents. The respondents found
they could accomplish the same results by doing away
with the links pivoted to the boom, carrying the pulley
and the cross-links connecting the pulley with the stick.
In some of their apparatus the line passes over pulleys in
brackets rigidly mounted on the boom and is fastened to
the upper end of the stick; in others a pulley is attached
to a link pivoted to the top of the stick; and in still others
the pulley is firmly fixed upon the end of the stick.
No claim of novelty is made for a pivoted boom, a
ditcher stick pivoted on the end of the boom, or a scoop
fastened to the bottom of the stick opening toward the

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court

294 U. S.

base. The petitioner asserts that the invention consisted
in the pivotal means carried by the boom and pivotally
attached to it and to the ditcher stick; that this constituted a revolutionary improvement which for the first
time made in-digging excavators practicable for use in
all sorts of material; that as the patent is basic it should
be liberally construed and a large range of equivalents
allowed. The respondents, on the other hand, say the
invention is in a developed and crowded art, and both the
prior art and the evolution of the claims in the Patent
Office proceedings require a strict construction of the
claim in suit. They assert that in those of their appliances wherein the pulley is held by immovable brackets
on the boom there is no "pivotal attachment" of the
pulley to the boom, and in those whefein the pulley is
linked to the upper end of the ditcher stick, or firmly
affixed to it, they neither use a "pivotal means" nor one
"carried by the boom." The petitioner replies that any
pivotal means comes within the claim; that the method
shown in the drawing and described in the specifications
is merely a preferred form of application; that a pulley
is a pivotal means, and, since the ditcher stick is attached
to the boom, if the pulley is affixed or linked to the stick
it is necessarily "carried " by the boom. And as in each
of the accused devices the respondents employ a pulley
either fixed on the boom or the stick or linked to the latter, each employs pivotal means carried by the boom
and pivotally connected with the boom and the stick.
We hold, in view of the prior art and of the file wrapper, the petitioner is not entitled to a broad reading of
the claim. It is unnecessary to determine whether within
the language used a pulley is "a pivotal means," or if attached only to the stick it is "carried by the boom," or
whether a pulley so attached can properly be said to connect the pulling member, i. e., the cable, with the boom
and the ditcher stick, since a reading of the terms employed as petitioner's position requires, precludes patent-

KEYSTONE CO. v. NORTHWEST ENG. CO.
42

47

Opinion of the Court.

ability, in view of the, prior art, and, in addition, would
be contrary to the limitation which the Patent Office file
wrapper shows the applicant placed, upon his asserted
invention.
At the date of filing the application excavators with
pivoted booms, with ditcher sticks pivoted to the booms,
with lines attached to the scoop and the ditcher stick,
and with sheaves upon the boom and at the upper end of
the stick, had been patented, and some had been used.
Contrivances of these sorts, in which the same line or
cable could be used to elevate the boom and to extend
the lower end of the ditcher stick, had been in use and
had been patented.4 Prior to Clutter several excavating
machines had embodied the device of attaching a pulley
by a link to the top of the ditcher stick, or the fixing of
a pulley on the end of the stick.'
Clutter's application as shown by the file wrapper
broadly claimed "means for operating the other [upper]
end of the pivotally attached member [ditcher stick.] so
as to adjust either scoop or boom, singly or together, at
the will of the operator." The claim was rejected on the
earlier Cross and Fairbanks patents. All of the claims
were cancelled and new ones' submitted, which included
claims 3 and 4 of the patent. These two were alike in
the use of the phrase "a pivoted (or pivotal) means carried by the boom and connecting the pulling member
therewith and with the scoop-carrying member." In
order to distinguish this construction from that of Cross
or Fairbanks the applicant's solicitor in a printed argument said:
if... none of the. references disclose . . . means carried by the boom for connecting the pulling member . . .
The applicant was the first in the art to mount a means
'See the following patents: Rood, 386,438; Cross, 808,345; Benedick, 876,517; Fairbanks, 1,056,268.
. See Benedick, 876,517; Fairbanks, 1,056,268.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

upon the boom for connecting a pulling member therewith but"also for connecting the pulling member with the
scoop-carrying member."
Claims 3 and 4 so phrased were allowed, but the applicant continued, without success, to press other claims not
so narrowly limited.6
We do not attribute the force of an estoppel to what
was said by the claimant in seeking to avoid the prior art
cited against his broad claims, but we do apply the principle that where such broad claims are denied and a narrower substituted, the patentee is estopped to read the
granted claim as the equivalent of those which were rejected.! If the claim should be held to comprehend a
pulley linked or fixed to the top of the ditcher stick or
immovably fastened to the boom, we find such applications in the prior art, upon the basis of which claims
worded so broadly as to embrace this methQd were rejected
by the Patent Office. and abandoned by the applicant.
The claim in suit would not have been allowed without
the limitations that the pivotal means was to be "carried" by the boom, and to "connect" the pulling member (the cable) with both the boom and the stick. In
other words, we .find no justification for enlarging the
Claims presented and rejected on the prior art embodied such
descriptions as: "means carried by the boom for connecting the
pulling member therewith and with said scoop-carrying member ";
"a pulling member for operating said boom and said scoop-carrying
member "; "pulling means for simultaneously shifting said boom and
scoop-carrying member." They were finally cancelled, and effort was
abandoned to secure a claim not limited to a pivotal means carried
by the boom and connecting the pulling member with the boom and
the stick.
'Shepard v. Carrigan, 116 U. S. 593, 597; Crawford v. Heysinger,
123 U. S. 589, 606; Roemer v. Peddie, 132 U. S. 313, 316-317;
Royer v. Coupe, 146 U. S. 524; Corbin Cabinet Lock Co. v. Eagle
Lock Co., 150 U. S. 38; Hubbell v. United States, 179 U. S. 77, 80, 83;
I. T. S. Rubber Co. v. Essex Rubber Co., 272 U. S. 429, 443; Smith
v. Magic City Kennel Club, 282 U. S. 784, 788.

KEYSTONE CO. v. NORTHWEST ENG. CO.

49

Opinion of the Court.

42

scope of what is described, but rather the requirement
of strict limitation to that which is specified, namely, a
pivotal means carried by the boom and connecting the
pulling member with the boom and the stick. We think
the court below was right in holding that the respondent's
devices did not infringe.
2. THE WAGNER PATENT.

This patent is for an "Excavating Scoop." Some of
the claims have to do with the construction of the scoop
and the manner of mounting it on the ditcher stick. These
are not in issue. Claims 6 and 7, on which petitioner relies, differ from claim 4 of the Clutter patent only in this
respect: the first claims "means for mounting a sheave
to the upper end of the stick" and "a hoisting line passed
about the sheave for raising and lowering the boom and
stick, and also for moving the stick outwardly lengthwise
of the boom . . . ;" and the second elaims, "a hoisting
line connected to the top of the ditcher stick." One or
the other of these claims unquestionably reads upon the
respondents' accused devices. But in this patent the applicant adopted the very means of the prior art which was
cited against Clutter's application and necessitated the
narrowing of his claims as a condition of allowance. In
this prior art both methods described in the Wagner patent for connecting the pulling member to the ditcher
stick were employed in excavating appliances.8 The
claims were properly held void for want of novelty.
3. THE DOWNIE PATENT.
Generally speaking the claimed invention includes three
features; in an excavator operatiffg on the principles of
that described in the Clutter Patent, a certain form of link
to connect a pulley to the top of the ditcher stick, a scoop
8

See these patehts: Williams, 711,449; Benedick, 876,517;, Fair-

banks, 1,056,268; and Hudson, 1,281,379, granted October 15, 1918,
that is, after .Clutter and before Wagner.
112536"-35---4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

rigidly connected to the lower end of the stick, having a
drop bottom to insure accurate discharge of the excavated
material, and side rake teeth on the scoop. Only the
claims as to the two last-named elements are involved in
these cases. It is uncontradicted that prior to.Downie's
application drop-bottom scoops had been used on outdigging machines. As designed they would probably not
have worked upon an in-digging machine operated upon
Clutter's principle. The question is then, as .stated by
petitioner's counsel, was invention involved in taking a
known form of out-digging bucket or scoop, rebuilding
and applying it to the Clutter in-digging excavator, and
making the changes necessary so that it would perform
the alleged new functions and results of Downie. We
are convinced that the fixation of the scoop to the stick,
the pivoting of a drop bottom near the front of the scoop
which could be unlatched to drop the contents and closed
by checking the momentum of the scoop, and the addition of rake teeth at the sides of the scoop, were all old
in the art and that the combination of them and adaptati-n of the combined result was a mere aggregation of old
elements requiring no more than mechanical skill, and
was not, therefore, patentable invention.?
The judgments are
Affirmed,

UNITED STATES EX EL. CHICAGO GREAT WESTERN RAILROAD CO. ET AL. v. INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 234.

Argued December 13, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. Mandamus does not lie to control the action of an administrative
agency in the exercise of its discretionary powers. P. 59.
9 See Grinnell Washing Machine Co. v. Johnson Co., 247 U. S. 426,
433; Powers-Kennedy Corp. v. Concrete Mixing & Conveying Co.,
282 U. S. 175, 186.

