OLD COMPANY'S LEHIGH v. MEEKER.

227

Counsel for Parties.

OLD COMPANY'S LEHIGH, INC. v. MEEKER,

RECEIVER,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 340.

Argued January 17, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.

1. The payee of a promissory note sent it for collection to a national
bank, named in the note as the place of payment and in which the
maker had a deposit account in excess of the note. Two days
before maturity, the maker delivered to the bank his check upon
the account for the sum due on the note, and received back the
note, which was surrendered as paid. Both knew that the bank
was then insolvent, and on the next business day it was closed by
the Comptroller of the Currency. Held that there was no ground
for impressing a trust- on the assets of the bank in favor of the
payee. See Jennings v. U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co., ante, p. 216.
P. 229.
2. The provision of the Uniform Bank.Collection Code, adopted in
New York, to the effect .that, in the event of a bank's insolvency,
the claims of those whose paper the bank has collected but for
which it has not paid them, shall be preferred, is invalid as applied
to a national bank. Jennings v. U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co.,
ante, p. 216. P. 230.
71 F. (2d) 280, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 546, to review the affirmance of a
decree dismissing the bill in a suit against an insolvent
national bank, its receiver, and the maker of a promissory note, brought by the payee to impress a trust upon
its assets.

Mr. Israel H. Mandel, with whom Mr. Joseph G. M.
Browne was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. George P. Barse, with whom Messrs. John F. Anderson, Humphrey J. Lynch, and F. G. Awalt were on the
brief, for respondents.

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

294 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The controversy here, like the one in No. 338, decided
herewith, ante, p. 216, grows out of an attempt by the
owner of negotiable paper to impress a trust upon the
assets of an insolvent national bank to which the paper
had been forwarded for the purpose of collection.
The complaint, which is in three counts, is brought before us by a motion to dismiss, which is equivalent to a
demurrer.
According to the first cause of action, plaintiff, a New
Jersey corporation, the petitioner in this court, was the
owner of a promissory note for $3,000, made by R. G.
Brewer, Inc., to the order of the plaintiff, and payable on
January 16, 1933, at the office of the First National Bank
of Mamaroneck, a corporation organized under the national banking act. This note the plaintiff deposited on
January 12, 1933, in a bank in Philadelphia, which forwarded it through other banks to the bank in Mamaroneck for collection from the maker. R. G. Brewer, Inc.,
the maker, had an account at the First National Bank
of Mamaroneck with a credit balance on the books of
the bank in excess of the amount owing on the note. On
January 14, 1933, it delivered to the bank a check upon
that account for $3,015, and received back the note, which
was surrendered as paid. On January 16, 1933, the next
business day, the Mamaroneck bank, being insolvent, was
closed by the Comptroller of the Currency without remitting or accounting for any proceeds of collection. The
plaintiff claims the benefit of a trust upon the assets in
the hands of the receiver.
The second cause of action is the same as the first with
these additional allegations: The bank in Mamaroneck
knew itself to be insolvent on January 14, 1933, when the
plaintiff's promissory note was accepted for collection.

OLD COMPANY'S LEHIGH v. MEEKER.
227

229

Opinion of the Court.

R. G. Brewer, Inc., whose treasurer (R. G. Brewer) was
a director and managing officer of the bank, also knew of
the insolvency and of the impending liquidation. What
was done in the acceptance of the check and the surrender
of the note two days before maturity was the product, so
it is charged, of a conspiracy to release the Brewer corporation from liability and thus defraud the plaintiff.
The third cause of action goes upon the theory that the
note was not discharged or canceled but is in the possession of the receiver, who should be directed to return it.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed a judgment of
dismissal as to the first and second causes of action, holding the plaintiff to be a general creditor without title
to a preference. As to the third cause of action, the
allegations were found sufficient on their face to put the
parties to their proofs, and to that extent only the dismissal was reversed. 71 F. (2d) 280. A writ of certiorari
brings the case here. The third cause of action is not
before us, the receiver having acquiesced in the judgment of the court below. The causes of action to be considered are the first and second.
What was done by the Mamaroneck bank on January
14, 1933, did not involve in its doing the creation of a
special deposit or an augmentation of the assets. What
was done had no effect except to diminish liabilities by reducing the indebtedness due to a depositor. Jennings v.
United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., ante, p. 216. The
petitioner insists that the transaction must be viewed as
if Brewer, the depositor, had withdrawn $3,015 in coin
or other currency, and had paid it back to the bank
to apply upon the note. But that is not what happened.
The bank, aware of its insolvency, might have been unwilling to pay out the coin, even if Brewer had demanded
it, when the effect of the payment would have been to
prefer one creditor over others. R. S. § 5242; 12 U. S. C.
§ 91; National Security Bank v. Butler, 129 U. S. 223;

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

McDonald v. Chemical National Bank, 174 U. S. 610, 618;
Roberts v. Hill, 24 Fed. 571. Brewer, equally aware of the
insolvency, might have been unwilling to return the coin
if once he held it in his grasp and had the power to retain it. Moreover, the note had not matured, and there
was no duty to pay or to collect in advance of its maturity. We indulge in nothing more than guesswork
when we assume that the transaction would have been
carried through at all if bank or depositor had insisted
that it receive another form. Cf. Hecker-Jones-Jewell
Milling Co. v. Cosmopolitan Trust Co., 242 Mass. 181,
187; 136 N. E. 333. Form is closely knit to substance
when a bank, at the end of its resources, is about to close
its doors.
The argument is made that the agent for collection was
guilty of a wrong in accepting payment through the
medium of a check upon itself with knowledge at the time
that insolvency was imminent. If this be so, the wrong
does not avail to charge a trust upon the assets whereby
the plaintiff will have a preference over the creditors at
large. A cause of action for damages may exist, upon
which the plaintiff, making proper proof, will be entitled
to a dividend. There may also be a cause of action for
the return of the canceled note, or for a dividend upon
the value if return is found to be impossible. Liabilities
such as these have their origin and measure in the loss
suffered by the claimant, the owner of the paper transmitted fr collection. They do not correspond to equivalent increments of value in the assets that are left in the
hands of the receiver.
By an amendment of the Negotiable Instruments Law
(Consolidated Laws of New York, c. 38; Article 19A,
§§ 350 to 350 (1)), New York has adopted the Uniform.
Bank Collection Code, which has already been considered
by this court in a case arising in Indiana. Jennings v.

ADAMS v. CHAMPION.
227

Syllabus.

United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co., supra. Section
350(1) of the code is to the effect that in the event of
insolvency a creditor in the situation of the plaintiff shall
be entitled to a preference. As applied to a national bank
the preference is unlawful. Jeimings v. United States
Fidelity & Guaranty Co., supra.
The decree should be affirmed, and it is so ordered.
Affirmed.
ADAMS, RECEIVER, v. CHAMPION, TRUSTEE IN
BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 374. Argued January 17, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.
1. A suit by a trustee in bankruptcy to recover, under § 60 (b) of
the Bankruptcy Act, property, or the value of property, which the
debtor transferred to a creditor, is maintainable at law; but if
prosecuted in equity without objection the same relief may be
decreed. P. 234.
2. A national bank accepted a pledge of securities as collateral for
an existing debt, with reasonable cause to believe that a preference
would be effected, within the meaning of § 60 (b) of the Bankruptcy Act. The debtor became a bankrupt within four months;
and, while the bankruptcy proceedings were pending but before
the trustee had made any demand upon it based on § 60 (b), the
bank disposed of the securities for fair value to some of its
depositors, receiving payment, not in' cash, but by accepting their
checks drawn on itself and charging them against their accounts.
Some months later the trustee sued the bank to avoid the preferences and, after a protracted litigation, he obtained a decree for
the value of the securities. Although the bank had become insolvent and was placed in the hands of a receiver six months before
the decree was entered, the receiver had not been made a party.
Afterwards, the trustee sought an order requiring the receiver to
pay the amount claimed, as a preferred charge upon the bank's

assets. Held:
(1) That the acceptance of the securities and their subsequent
disposition for fair value, before the trustee in bankruptcy had

