BALDWIN v. G. A. F. SEELIG.
Statement of the Case.

499

conflicting inferences. Something more precise is requisite
in the -quasi-jurisdictional findings of an administrative
agency. Beaumont, S. L. & W. Ry. Co. v. United States,
282 U. S. 74, 86; Floridav. United States, 282 U. S. 194,
215. We must know what a decision means before the duty
becomes ours to say whether it is right or wrong.
The decree should be affirmed, and it is so ordered.
Affirmed.
BALDWIN, COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE &
MARKETS, ET AI. v. G. A. F. SEELIG, INC.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATE&
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 604.

Argued February 11, 12, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. A law or regulation of a State which prohibits the sale of milk
imported from another State unless the price paid in that other
to the producer was up to the minimum prescribed by the first
State for purchases from local producers, is a direct and unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce, whether applied to milk
sold by the importer in the cans in which it was imported, or to
milk sold by him in bottles in which it was put after importation.
Pp. 521, 526.
2. Such a regulation can not be sustained as an exercise of police
power upon the ground that economic security of the dairyman
works for the sanitary security of the community by insuring both
an adequate supply and a wholesome quality of a necessary food.
P. 522.
District Court reversed in part; affirmed in part.
CROSS-APPEALS

to review'a decree of the District Court,

of three judges, in a suit brought by Seelig, Inc., a milk
dealer, to restrain Baldwin and other state officials from
prosecuting it for selling without a license in New York
* Together with N6 . 605, G. A. F. Seelig, Inc. v. Baldwin, Commissioner of Agriculture & Markets, et al. Appeal from the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Baldwin.

294 U. S.

milk imported from Vermont. The decree was for the
plaintiff in respect of milk sold in the original packages,
but, in respect of milk sold in bottles filled from those
cans, relief was denied. See 7 F. Supp. 776, opinion on
the application for interlocutory injunction.
Mr. Henry S. Manley, with whom Mr. John J. Bennett,
Jr., Attorney General of New York, and Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, were on the brief, for Baldwin,
Commissioner of Agriculture & Markets, et al.
The purposes of the statute are to protect the health
and welfare of New York state citizens. It does not discriminate against products coming into the State in interstate commerce. It is concerned with a problem which is
predominantly local. Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502,
517.
The milk business does not observe state lines, and yet
it is predominantly local. The interests involved center
about the particular market, and are not diffused throughout the Nation. Supplying fresh milk is a local business,
like supplying water (Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349); it is not a national business like
supplying wheat. (Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258
U. S. 50; Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268 U. S. 189.)
Congress has not occupied the field in any exclusive
manner; on the contrary, state regulation has received
some federal encouragement. Act of Feb. 15, 1927, c. 155,
44 Stat. 1101; 21 U. S. C., § 148.
Each State may use its police power to regulate business within its own borders to the extent necessary to protect its citizens as to their health, safety, morals and general welfare, even though interstate commerce is incidentally affected.
The purposes of the commerce clause are two. The
one originally of greater importance was to prevent discrimination by the several States, each designing to favor

BALDWIN v. G. A. F. SEELIG.
511

Argument for Baldwin.

its own products and the local businesses of its citizens.
The other, which has become of constantly increasing
importance in recent years, is to authorize Congress to
give interstate commerce a uniform regulation.
It will readily be agreed that there are two limitations
upon state power corresponding to these two purposes of
the commerce clause. The state statute must not be
discriminatory, and it must not conflict with any regulation of commerce enacted by Congress.
Assuming that the state statute is not objectionable
upon either of those grounds, but puts some incidental
burden or restraint upon interstate commerce, the
decision as to its validity will depend upon a balancing
of the national and local interests practically involved.
In other words, a State can burden interstate commerce
somewhat, to afford necessary protection to its people,
but it cannot burden interstate commerce much merely
to protect its people a little. As illustrations that interstate commerce can be affected incidentally by a valid
state regulation, see Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S.
461; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299; Hygrade
ProtisionCo. v. Sherman, 266 U. S. 497; Packer Corp. v.
Utah, 285 U. S. 105; Bradley v. Public Utilities Comm'n,
289 U. S. 92; Mintz v. Baldwin, 280 U. S. 346.
A regulation so necessary and reasonable that it is
valid for application to strictly intrastate business is not
forbidden to have some incidental effects upon interstate
commerce; hence when its subject matter is primarily
of local concern, a regulation which is justifiable under
the Fourteenth Amendment and which neither discriminates against interstate commerce nor conflicts with any
fedcral regulation, is justifiable under the commerce
clause.
The more relevant,-cases fall roughly into three groups.
The first group includes regulations affecting instrumentalities of interstate commerce, such as trains, automo-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Baldwin.

biles, motor trucks and buses.

294 U. S.

Some of them affect

telegraph companies, express companies, ferries and
bridges and navigation. Perhaps order-takers should be
mentioned here, and the grain elevators of North Dakota.
The second group includes regulations of goods by the
State of destination, such as cattle quarantines, weights
and inspections, laws about oleomargarine and fraudulent and adulterated foods, imported game and liquor.
The third group includes regulations of goods by the State
of production, such as game and shellfish, hides in New
Mexico, Florida oranges, North Dakota wheat, natural
gas and petroleum, and water.
Of 66 cases we cite (ignoring a few which are inconclusive or merely incidental to argument) 40 resulted in upholding the state regulation and 26 were adverse. The
proportions, at least, seem to be approximately representative, because of 72 cases decided by this Court in the last
fifteen years, 49 resulted in upholding state regulation
and 23 were adverse.
The process of decision illustrated by cases of state regulatory statutes in fields not taken over by the Federal
Government involves answering three questions: First, is
the statute sincerely and reasonably directed to a proper
purpose of government so that it can be justified under
the Fourteenth Amendment. Second, is the purpose
primarily a matter of local concern; is it important relatively to the burdens which it is charged with placing upon
interstate commerce. Third, is the statute non-discriminatory against interstate commerce.
It does not appear that any neighboring State resents
the claim of power in the present instance; Pennsylvania and New Jersey, at least, agree through their statutes that the price of milk paid to the producer should
be fixed by the consuming market. The case of natural
gas presents some analogies and some differences. Pentzsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 252 U. S. 23;

BALDWIN v. G. A. F. SEELIG.
511

515

Argument for Baldwin.

Peoples Gas Co.v. Public Service Comm'n, 270 U. S. 550;
Western Distributing Corp. v. Public Service Comm'n,
285 U. S. 119. The case of goods made by child labor
and moving freely in a nation-wide commerce presents
no true analogy, not only because of the difference in the
commerce but also because of the difference in the purpose for regulating the manufactured goods of extra-state
origin. A State regulating the " milk-shed" from which
its consumers derive a daily supply of food regulates the
entire area with an even purpose related to the product
itself; a State forbidding child labor within its borders
and forbidding other States to send it the products of
their child labor has supplemented a regulation of local
health or morals, not directed to anything inherent in the
product, by another regulation purely economic in purpose directed at the product. It is doubted that a State
can do that; the extent to which a State can "burden"
interstate commerce in endeavors to eliminate child labor
is suggested by the case of Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v.
Stapleton, 279 U. S.587, 593.
The regulation now involved is effective after the milk
produced in Vermont has come to New York State and
"come to rest within the State." Gregg Dyeing Co. v.
Query, 286 U. S. 472, 478-479; Edelman v. Boeing Air
Transport, 289 U. S.249, 252; Minnesota v. Blasius, 290
U. S. 1, 8-12; and Monamotor Oil Co. v. Johnson, 292
U. S.86, 95.
The "original package" has often been suggested as
the physical symbol of the importers' interests protected
in the name of interstate commerce, and its breaking up
as the uttermost limit to which those interests will be protected. Probably this is a rule of thumb, and something
will depend upon the;relative urgencies of the federal interests and state interests practically involved in a particular case. In recent years it is perceived that there can
be no fixed rule for separating interstate commerce from

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Seelig Co.

294 U. S.

intrastate commerce, because they run into each other as
day runs into night , in their extremes they are different
but there is no definite and unvarying dividing line. Not
always will the " original package" receive immunity
from state regulation (Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman,
266 U. S. 497; Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton,262 U. S. 506),
and in one case federal interests were found to extend
beyond the breaking up of the "original package," and
"follow the adulterated or misbranded article at least to
the shelf of the importer." McDermott v. Wisconsin,
228 U. S. 115, 135.
Presumably milk bottled in another State and shipped
in cases is not sold at retail in an " original package" and
may be regulated at that time. May v. New Orleans, 178
U. S. 496; Austin v. Tennessee, 179 U. S. 343; Cook v.
Marshall Co., 196 U. S. 261; Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch,
226 U. S. 192, 200-201; Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446,
454-455; Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, 240 U. S. 510,
517; Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 304.
Mr. J. Daniel Dougherty, with whom Mr. John J.
O'Connor was on the brief, for G. A. F. Seelig, Inc.
As the processing and bottling of milk are component
parts of, the interstate transportation, the District Court
was in error, in excluding such part of the shipment from
the injunctive protection of its decree. Foster-Fountain
Packing Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S. 1, 10.
The decisions of this Court in such cases as General
Oil Co. v. Crain,209 U. S. 211; Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S.
504; ChamplainRealty Co. v. Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366;
and Minnesota v. Blasimus, 290 U. S. 1, are not controlling
under the facts of this case. Those cases involved the
question of local taxation upon goods placed in storage.
In the case at bar the Milk Control Law is not a tax
statute, nor is the milk brought in from Vermont placed
in storage in any manner.

BALDWIN v. G. A. F. SEELIG.
511

517

Argument for Seelig Co.

The rule of the "original package" is not an ultimate
principle. It is an illustration of a principle. It assumes
transmission in packages, and then supplies a test of the
unity of the transaction. The law does not seek to find
what the parties may do, but what, in the usual course,
it is expected they will do. Western Union v. Foster, 247

U. S. 105, 113.
It is admitted that appellee's transportation of the
milk from Vermont to New York is interstate commerce.
If so, it continues such until it reaches "the point where
the parties originally intended that the movement should
finally end." Illinois Central R. Co. v. Louisiana R. R.
Comm'n, 236 U. S. 157, 163. Appellee's customers can
not be expected to call at the pasteurizing plant for the
milk which was ordered to be delivered to their doorsteps. Practice, intent and the typical method followed by the importer determine the unity or continuity of the transaction. The wants of appellee's
customers are known, and the milk is transported, not to
be held, but to be used. Pasteurization takes place, not
because the importer wills it, but because the health
regulations require the milk to be so treated. Any interruption in the interstate movement of the milk thus
caused is merely casual and incidental, and the transaction is to be treated as single and continuous. The essential unity of the transaction remains the final test.
Swift v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507.
The statutory provision attacked deprives appellee of
its property without due process of law. It is invalid
under Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution. Lemke v. Farmers
Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50; Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co.,
268 U. S. 198; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352;
Missouri v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 265 U. S.298; St.
Louis & San FranciscoRy.Co. v. Public Service Comm'n,
254 U. S. 535; Lemke v. Homer Farmers Elevator Co.,

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

258 U. S. 65; St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 261 U. S. 369; Davis v. Farmers Cooperative Equity Co., 262 U. S. 312; Pennsylvania v.
West Virginia, 262 U. S. 553; Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co.
v. Wells, 265 U. S. 101; Michigan Public Utilities Comm'n
v. Duke, 266 U. S. 570; Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S.
307; Bush v. Maloy, 267 U. S. 317; Real Silk Hosiery
Mills v. Portland,268 U. S. 325; DiSanto v. Pennsylvania,
273 U. S. 34; Public Utilities Comm'n v. Attleboro Steam
& E. Co., 273 U. S. 83; Lawrence v. St. Louis-San Francisco R. Co., 278 U. S. 228; Furst v. Brewster, 282 U. S.
493; Anglo-Chilean Nitrate Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U. S.
218.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOzo

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Whether and to what extent the New York Milk Control Act (N. Y. Laws of 1933, c. 158; Laws of 1934, c. 126)
may be applied against a dealer who has acquired title to
the milk as the result of a transaction in interstate commerce is the question here to be determined.
G. A. F. Seelig, Inc. (appellee in No. 604 and appellant
in No. 605) is engaged in business as a milk dealer in the
city of New York. It buys its milk, including cream, in
Fair Haven, Vermont, from the Seelig Creamery Corporation, which in turn buys from the producers on the neighboring farms. The milk is transported to New York by
rail in forty-quart cans, the daily shipment amounting to
about 200 cans of milk and 20 cans of cream. Upon arrival in New York about 90% is sold to customers in the
original cans, the buyers being chiefly hotels, restaurants
and stores. About 10% is bottled in New York, and sold
to customers in bottles. By concession, title passes from
the Seelig Creamery to G. A. F. Seelig, Inc. at Fair Haven,
Vermont. For convenience the one company will be referred to as the Creamery and the other as Seelig.

BALDWIN v. G. A. F. SEELIG.
511

Opinion of the Court.

The New York Milk Control Act with the aid of regulations made thereunder has set up a system of minimum
prices to be paid by dealers to producers. The validity of
that system in its application to producers doing business
in New York State has support in our decisions; Nebbia
v. New York, 291 U. S. 502; Hegeman Farms Corp. v.
Baldwin, 293 U. S. 163. Cf. Borden's Farm Products Co.
v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194. From the farms of New York
the inhabitants of the so-called Metropolitan Milk District, comprising the City of New York and certain neighboring communities, derive about 70% of the milk requisite for their use. To keep the system unimpaired by
competition from afar, the Act has a provision whereby
the protective, prices are extended to that part of the
supply (about 30%) which comes from other states. The
substance of the provision is that, so far as such a prohibition is permitted by the Constitution, there shall be no
sale within the state of milk bought outside unless the
price paid to the producers was one that would be lawful
upon a like transaction within the state. The statute,
so far as pertinent, is quoted in the margin together
with supplementary regulations by the Board of Milk
Control.'
"Section 258 (m)

(4), Article ,21-a,

New York Agriculture &

Markets Law, L. 1934, c. 126, formerly § 312 (g), Article 25, L. 1933,
c. 158: "It is the intent of the legislature that the instant, wheneVer
that may be, that the handling within the State by a milk dealer of
milk produced outside of the State becomes a subject of regulation by
the State, in the exercise of its police powers, the restrictions set forth
in this article respecting such milk so produced shall apply and the
powers conferred by this article shall attach. After any such milk so
produced shall have come to rest within the State, any sale, within
the State by a licensed milk dealer or a milk dealer required by this
article to be licensed, of any such milk purchased from the producer
at a price lower than -that required to be paid for milk produced
within the State purchased under similar conditions, shall be unlawful!)

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Seelig buys its milk from the Creamery in Vermont at
prices lower than the minimum payable to producers in
New York. The Commissioner of Farms and Markets refuses to license the transaction of its business unless it
signs an agreement to conform to the New York statute
and regulations in the sale of the imported product.' This
the applicant declines to do. Because of that refusal othei
public officers, parties to these appeals, announce a purpose to prosecute for trading without a license and to recover heavy penalties. This suit has been brought to
restrain the enforcement of the Act in its application to
the complainant, repugnancy being charged between its
provisions when so applied and limitations imposed by the
Constitution of the United States. United States ConstiOrder of New York Milk Control Board, July 1, 1933: "Any
continuous and regular purchase or sale or delivery or receipt of
milk passing to a milk dealer at any place and available for utilization as fluid milk and/or cream within New York State, followed by
such utilization in one or more instances, where the price involved
in such purchase or sale or delivery or receipt is less than the sum
of the minimum price established to be paid to producers for such
milk plus actual costs of transporting and handling and processing
such milk to the place and to. the condition involved in such purchase
or sale or delivery or receipt, hereby is forbidden."
2The application blank contains the following questions which
show the form of the required agreement: "Do you agree not to
sell within New York State after it has come to rest within the State,
milk or cream purchased from producers without the State at a price
lower than that required to be paid producers for milk or cream produced within the State purchased under similar conditions ?"
"Do you agree that you will obtain for the Commissioner and
supply to him, at such times and in such manner as he requires, concerning milk and cream produced without the State and in any way
dealt in by you, data to whatever extent is necessary to ascertain or
compute whether the producers were paid for such milk or cream a
price not lower than that required to be paid producers for milk or
cream produced within New York State and purchased under similai
conditions?."

BALDWIN v. G. A. F. SEELIG.
511

Opinion of the Court.

tution, Art. I, § 8, clause 3; Fourteenth Amendment, § 1.
A District Court of three judges, organized in accordance
with § 266 of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 380), has
granted a final decree restraining the enforcement of the
Act in so far as sales are made by the complainant while
the milk is in the cans or other original packages in which
it was brought into New York, but refusing an injunction
as to milk taken out of the cans for bottling, and
thereafter sold in bottles. See opinion on application
for interlocutory injunction:-7 F. Supp. 776; and
cf. 293 U. S. 522. The case is here on cross-appeals.
28 U. S. C. § 380.
First. An injunction was properly granted restraining
the enforcement of the Act in its application to sales in
the original packages.
New York has no power to project its legislation into
Vermont by regulating the price to be paid in that state
for milk acquired there. So much is not disputed. New
York is equally without power to prohibit the introduction
within her territory of milk of wholesome quality acquired
in Vermont, whether at high prices or at low ones. This
again is not disputed. Accepting those postulates, New
York asserts her power to outlaw milk so introduced by
prohibiting its sale thereafter if the price that has been
paid for it to the farmers of Vermont is less than would
be owing in like circumstances to farmers in New York.
The importer in that view may keep his milk or drink it,
but sell it he may not.
Such a power, if exerted, will set a barrier to traffic between one state and another as effective as if customs
duties, equal to the price differential, had been laid upon
the thing transported. Imposts or duties upon commerce
with other countries are placed by an express prohibition
of the Constitution, beyond the power of a state, "except
what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspqc-

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

tion laws." Constitution, Art. I, § 10, clause 2; Woodruff
v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123. Imposts and duties upon interstate commerce are placed beyond the power of a state,
without the mention of an exception, by the provision
committing commerce of that order to the power of the
Congress. Constitution, Art. I, § 8, clause 3. "It isthe
established doctrine of this court that a state may not,
in any form or under any guise, directly burden the prosecution of interstate business." International Textbook
Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S.91, 112; and see Brennan v. Titusvile, 153 U. S. 289; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622;
Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S.344, 351; KansasCity Southern Ry. Co. v. Kaw Valley Drainage District, 233 U. S.
75, 79. Nice distinctions have been made at times between direct and indirect burdens. They are irrelevant
when the avowed purpose of the obstruction, as well as its
necessary tendency, is to suppress or mitigate the consequences of competition between the states. Such an obstruction is direct by the very terms of the hypothesis.
We are reminded in the opinion below that a chief occasion of the commerce clauses was " the mutual jealousies
and aggressions of the States, taking form in customs barriers and other economic retaliation." Farrand, Records
of the Federal Convention, vol. II, p. 308; vol. III, pp.
478, 547, 548; The Federalist, No. XLII; Curtis, History of
the Constitution, vol. 1, p. 502; Story on the Constitution,
§ 259. If New York, in order to promote the economic welfare of her farmers, may guard them against competition
with the cheaper prices of Vermont, the door has been
opened to rivalries and reprisals that were meant to be
averted by subjecting commerce between the states to the
power of the nation.
The argument is pressed upon us, however, that the end
to be served by the Milk Control Act is something more
than the economic welfare of the farmers or of any other

BALDWIN v. G. A. F. SEELIG.
511

523

Opinion of the Court.

class or classes. The end to be served is the maintenance
of a regular and adequate supply of pure and wholesome
milk, the supply being put in jeopardy when the farmers
of the state are unable to earn a living income. Nebbia v.
New York, supra. Price security, we are told, is only a
special form of sanitary security; the economic motive is
secondary and subordinate; the state intervenes to make
its inhabitants healthy, and not to make them rich. On
that assumption we are asked to, say that intervention will
be upheld as a valid exercise by the state of its internal
police power, though there is an incidental obstruction to
commerce between one state and another. This would
be to eat up the rule under the guise of an exception.
Economic welfare is always related to health, for there can
be no health if men are starving. Let such an exception
be admitted, and all that a state will have to do in times
of stress and strain is to say that its farmers and merchants
and workmen must be protected against competition from
without, lest they go upon the poor relief lists or perish
altogether. To give entrance to that excuse would be
to invite a speedy end of our national solidarity. The
Constitution was framed under the dominion of a political
philosophy less parochial in range. It was framed upon
the theory that the peoples of the several states must sink
or swim together, and that in the long run prosperity and
salvation are in union and not division.
We have dwelt up to this point upon the argument of
the state that economic security for farmers in the milkshed may be a means of assuring to consumers a steady
supply of a food of prime necessity. There is, however,
another argument which seeks to establish a relation between the well-being of the producer and the quality of
the product. We are told that farmers who are underpaid will be tempted to save the expense of sanitary precautions. This temptation will affect the farmers outside

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

New York as well as those within it. For that reason
the exclusion of milk paid for in Vermont below the New
York minimum will tend, it is said, to impose a higher
standard of quality and thereby promote health. We
think the argument will not avail to justify impediments
to commerce between the states. There is neither evidence nor presumption that the same minimum prices
established by order of the Board for producers in New
York are necessary also for producers in Vermont. But
apart from such defects of proof, the evils springing from
uncared for cattle must be remedied by measures of repression more direct and certain than the creation of a
parity of prices between New York and other states. Appropriate certificates may be exacted from farmdrs in Vermont and elsewhere (Mintz v. Balduin, 289 U. S. 346;
Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137); milk may be excluded
if necessary safeguards have been omitted; but commerce
between the states is burdened unduly when one state
regulates by indirection the prices to be paid to producers
in another, in the faith that .augmentation of prices will
lift up the level of economic welfare, and that this will
stimulate the observance of sanitary requirements in the
preparation of the product. The next step would be to
condition importation upon proof of a satisfactory wage
scale in factory or shop, or even upon proof of the profits
of the business. Whatever relation there may be between
earnings and sanitation is too remote and indirect to justify obstructions to the normal flow of commerce in its
movement between states. Cf. Asbell v' Kansas,' 209
U. S. 251, 256; Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 472.
One state may not put pressure of that sort upon others
to reform their economic standards. If farmers or manufacturers in Vermont are abandoning farms or factories,
or are failing to maintain them properly, the legislature
of Vermont and noi that of New York must supply the
fitting re medy.

BALDWIN v. G. A. F. SEELIG.
511

525

Opinion of the Court.

Many cases from our reports are cited by counsel for
the state. They do not touch the case at hand. The line
of division between direct and indirect restraints of commerce involves in its marking a reference to considerations
of degree. Even so, the borderland is wide between the
restraints upheld as incidental and those attempted here.
Subject to the paramount power of the Congress, a.state
may regulate the importation of unhealthy swine or cattle
(Asbell v. Kansas, supra; Mintz v. Baldwin, supra) or
decayed or noxious foods. Cross'manv. Lurman, 192 U. S.
189; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; Price v. Illinois, 238
U. S. 446. Things such as these are not proper subjects of
commerce, and there is no unreasonable interference when
they are inspected and excluded. So a state may protect
its inhabitants against the fraudulent substitution, by
deceptive coloring or otherwise, of one article for another.
Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461; Hebe Co. v.
Shaw, 248 U. S. 297; Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman,
266 U. S. 497. It may give protection to travelers against
the dangers of overcrowded highways (Bradley v. Public
Utilities Comm'n, 289 U. S. 92) and protection to its residents against unnecesary noises. Hennington v. Georgia,
163 U. S. 229. Cf., however, Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v.
Texas, 245 U. S. 484, 488. At times there are border cases,
such as Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31, where the decision
in all likelihood was influenced, even if it is not wholly
explained, by a recognition of the special and restricted
nature of rights of property in game. Interference was
there permitted with sale and importation, but interference for a close season and no longer, and in aid of a policy
of conservation common to many states. Cf. Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; FosterPacking Co. v. Haydel, 278
U. S. 1, 11; Silz v. Hesterberg,184 N. Y. 126, 131; 76 N. E.
1032. None of these statutes-inspection laws, game
laws, laws intended to curb fraud or exterminate diseaseapproaches in drastic quality the statute here in contro-

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

versy which would .neutralize the economic consequences
of free trade among the states.
Second. There was error in refusing an injunction to
restrain the enforcement of the Act in its application to
milk in bottles to be sold by the importer.
The test of the " original package," which came into our
law with Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, is not inflexible and final for the transactions of interstate commerce,
whatever may be its validity for commerce with other
countries. Cf. Woodruff v. Parham,supra; Anglo-Chilean
Nitrate Sales Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U. S. 218, 226. There
are purposes for which merchandise, transported from another state, will be treated as a part of the general mass of
property at the state of destination though still in the original containers. This is so, for illustration, where merchandise so contained is subjected to a non-discriminatory property tax which it bears equally with other merchandise
produced within the state. Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton,
262 U. S. 506; Texas Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466, 475;
American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500. There
are other purposes for which the same merchandise will
have the benefit of the protection appropriate to interstate commerce, though the original packages have been
broken and the contents subdivided. "A state tax upon
merchandise brought in from another State, or upon its
sales, whether in 'original packages or not, after it has
reached its destination and is in a state of rest, is lawful
only when the tax is -not discriminating in its incidence
against the merchandise because of its origin in another
State." Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton,supra,at p. 516. Cf.
McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115, 133; Bowman v.
Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465, 491; Brimmer v.
Rebman, 138 U. S. 78; Savage v. Jones, supra, at p. 525;
Western Union v. Poster,247 U. S. 105, 114; Pacific Co. v.
Johnson, 285 U. S. 480, 493. In brief, the test of the origi-

BALDWIN v. G. A. F. SEELIG.
511

Opinion of the Court.

nal package is not an ultimate principle. It is an illustration of a principle. Pennsylvania Gas. Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 225 N. Y. 397, 403; 122 N. E. 260. It
marks a convenient boundary and one sufficiently precise
save in exceptional conditions. What is ultimate is the
principle that one state in its dealings with another may
not place itself in a position of economic isolation. Formulas and catchwords are subordinate to this overmastering requirement. Neither the power to tax nor the police
power may be used by the state of destination with the
aim and effect of establishing an economic barrier against
competition with'the products of another state or the labor
of its residents. Restrictions so contrived are an unreasonable clog upon the mobility of commerce. They set up
what is equivalent to a rampart of customs duties designed
to neutralize advantages belonging to the place of origin.
They are thus hostile in conception as well as burdensome
in result. The form of the packages in such circumstances
is immaterial, whether they are original or broken. The
importer must be free from imposts framed for the very
purpose of suppressing competition from without and.
leading inescapably to the suppression' so intended.
The statute here in controversy will not survive that
test. A dealer in milk buys it in Vermont at prices there
prevalling. He brings it to New York, and is told he may
not sell it if he removes it from the can and pours it into
bottles. He may not do this for the reason that milk-in
Vermont is cheaper than milk in New York at the regimented prices, and New York is moved by the desire to
protect her inhabitants from the. cut prices and other
consequences of Vermont competition. To overcome that
competition a common incident of ownership-the privilege of sale in convenient receptacles--is denied to one
who has bought in interstate commerce. He may pot sell
on any terms to any one, whether the orders w ere given in

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

advance or came to him thereafter. The decisions of this
court ,,s to the significance of the original package in
interstate transactions were not meant to be a cover for
retortion or suppression.
The distinction is clear between a statute so designed
and statutes of the type considered in Leisy v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100, to take one example out of many available.
By the teaching of that decision intoxicating liquors are
not subject to license or prohibition by the state of destination without congressional consent.3 They become subject, however, to such laws when the packages are broken.
There is little, if any, analogy between restrictions of that
type and those in controversy here. In licensing or prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors a state does not
attempt to neutralize economic advantages belonging to
the place of origin. What it does is no more than to apply
its domestic policy, rooted in its conceptions of morality
and order, to property which for such a purpose may fairly
be deemed to have passed out of commerce and to be commingled in an absorbing mass. So also the analogy is remote between restrictions like the present ones upon the
sale of imported milk and restrictions affecting sales in unsanitary srweat-shops. It is one thing for a state to exact
adherence by an importer to fitting standards of sanitation
before the products of the farm or factory may be sold in
its markets. It is a very different thing to establish a wage
scale or a scale of prices for use in other states, and to bar
the sale of the products, whether in the original packages
or in others, unless the scale has been observed.
The decree in No. 604 is affirmed, and that in No. 605
reversed, and the cause remanded for proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
No. 604. Affirmed.
No. 605. Reversed.
'The rule is different today under the Twenty-first Amendment.
Art. XXI, § 2.

