WILOIL CORP. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
165

Syllabus.

521. The obligation continues unimpaired until valid
assignment of the shares by final distribution of the estate, if not by an earlier trafnsfer. Forrest v. Jack, decided this day, ante, p. 158. Our attention has not been
called to any South Carolina statute purporting to, and
the state supreme court did not hold that any law of the
State does, bar the enforcement of the assessment on the
ground it was not made before the discharge of the executor. The decree of the court by which he was discharged,
while having the effect of vacating the office, did not
operate to extinguish the estate, and so the administratrix
de bonis non with the will annexed became the personal
representative of the testator and is liable as the testator
would be if he were living and owned the stock. As suggested in Forrest v. Jack, supra, the enforcement of liability imposed by ยง 66 may not be thwarted or impeded
by state law. The state court failed to enforce that
liability. It should have held that petitioner is entitled
to judgment against the administratrix for the indebted.iess owing by the estate on account of the four shares
standing in the names of the minors, and that the judgment be enforced against property owned by testator
when he died and now held by his children'and grandchildren. Matteson v. Dent, supra. McNair v. Howle,
123 S. C. 252, 268; 116 S. E. 279. Columbia Theological
Seminary v. Arnette, 168 S. C. 272, 277, et seq.; 167 S. E.
465.
Reversed.
WILOIL CORPORATION v. PENNSYLVANIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 439.

Argued January 14, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.

1. If goods carried from one State have reached their destination in
another and there are held in original packages for sale, the latter
State has power to tax them, without discrimination, as it does

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellant.

294 U. S.

other property within its jurisdiction; the tax may be laid on the
property itself or upon the sale and delivery of it. P. 175.
2. A state tax on distributors of gasoline of so much per gallon sold,
is not repugnant to the commerce clause as applied to a case where
the vendor, under local contracts for sale of gasoline in tank carsoriginal packages-to be delivered to the purchasers locally on their
rail sidings, was at liberty to take it from local or from outside
sources and chose to consign it to the purchasers- from another
State. P. 174.
3. In such a case, the interstate transportation is merely incidental,
and the burden on interstate commerce, if any, is indirect. P. 175.
316 Pa. 33; 173 Atl. 404, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming a recovery by the
State in an action to collect a tax. See 37 Dauphin Co.
Rep. 63.
Mr. J. Smith Christy for appellant.
The State Supreme Court was in error as to the effect
.of the contract.
When a federal right is involved, this Court will examine both fact and law to ascertain whether or not that
right has been violated, regardless of the state court's
action.
Assuming, however, for the purpose of argument, that
appellant was not bound to perform according to the terms
of the contract, and at its election could have shipped gasoline from points in Pennsylvania, nevertheless the fact
remains that it did ship from Wilmington, Delaware, to
Philadelphia, which was interstate commerce and continued to be so until the goods were received by the purchaser on its private siding. Western Union v. Foster,
247 U. S. 105, 113; Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,
257 U. S. 265-272; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Pacific
States PaperAssn., 273 U. S. 52.
Citizenship does not enter into the determination of
the question of interstate commerce. Bacon v. Illinois,
227 U. S. 504,

WILOIL CORP. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
169

Argument for Appellee.

Banker Bros. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 222 U. S. 210, is
clearly overruled as to the instant case by Sonneborm
Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506. Distinguishing: Ware &
Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405; U. S. Glue Co. v.
Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321; Hump Hairpin Mfg. Co. v.
Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290; Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U. S.
1; FederalCompress Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17.
The contracts of sale were honestly entered into and
with no intent to defraud the State of the tax.
Mr. John Y. Scott, Deputy Attorney General of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. Win. A. Schnader, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee.
The fact that appellant secured the liquid fuels in
Wilmington for the purpose of performing its agreement with its purchasers was incidental. Since the agreement of appellant was to sell and deliver liquid fuels in
Philadelphia when required by the purchasers, it was obviously immaterial to those purchasers where appellant
procured the liquid fuels. The agreement did not contemplate that they be procured in Wilmington or in any
other particular place. The contract could have been as
well performed had appellant procured the liquid fuels
in Pennsylvania. Taxation of the sale and delivery of the
liquid fuels by appellant to its purchasers, therefore, only
remotely and incidentally affected interstate commerce.
Cf. Ware & Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405.
It is impossible to distinguish the present case from
Banker Bros. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 222 U. S. 210.
Appellant seeks to distinguish the Banker Bros. case by
pointing out that there the cars were shipped originally
from a point outside Pennsylvania to Banker Brothers
Company, and that the company itself then made delivery in Pennsylvania to the ultimate purchaser. Not
only were those facts not made the basis of the decision
of this Court, but they were barely mentioned in the

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U.S.

opinion. It is apparent that the Court did not regard
them of any particular importance.
That the tax imposed by the Act here involved is not
a tax on property but a tax on transactions is clear.
Similar tax statutes have been regarded and treated
by this Court as imposing excise taxes and not property
taxes: Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U. S. 218;
Helson & Randolph v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245.
Therefore, the tax was here imposed upon a transaction which was wholly intrastate and not upon the goods.
The movement of the goods in interstate commerce was
only incidental to that transaction.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case, coming before the court of common pleas of
Dauphin county upon the appeal of the company from
determinations of state taxing authorities, is an action by
the Commonwealth against appellant to recover a tax
under ยง 4 of the Liquid Fuels Act of 1931. P. L. 149.
By that act a tax of three cents a gallon is imposed "upon
all liquid fuels used or sold and delivered by distributors
within this Commonwealth," and distributors are made
liable for the payment of the tax. They may add the
amount of the tax to the price and are required on all
delivery slips or bills to "state the rate of the tax separately from the price of the liquid fuels." Appellant
maintained below, and it insists here, that, construed to
impose the tax in question, the statute is repugnant to
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution, Art. I,
ยง 8, cl. 3. The trial court held otherwise and gave judgment for the amount claimed. The supreme court affirmed. 316 Pa. 33; 173 Atl. 404.
Appellant, a Pennsylvania corporation having its principal place of business in Pittsburgh, sells liquid fuels at
wholesale and is a distributor as defined by the act. The

WILOIL CORP. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
169

Opinion of the Court.

tax in controversy was laid at three cents per gallon upon
the contents of 13 tank cars sold and delivered by it. All
were ordered through its agent in Philadelphia for delivery to purchasers at that city or at Essington, Pennsylvania. The orders specified a price per gallon "f. o. b.
Wilmington, Del., plus 30 tax," and were subject to, and
received, appellant's approval at its office in Pittsburgh.
The purchasers were not licensed or taxable as distributors. All fuels delivered under these contracts were obtained from Crane Hook Company of Wilmington, Delaware, and on the order of appellant were shipped by rail
from there to the purchasers in Philadelphia or Essington.
Each car moved on a bill of lading in which the appellant
was consignor and the purchaser was consignee; the place
of shipment indicated was Wilmington and the place of
destination was consignee's private siding in Philadelphia
or Essington. Appellant prepared and sent to the buyer
an invoice covering each shipment, showing the price
as stated in the order.
The inference that might be drawn from the f. o. b.
order, the billing and straight bill of lading that the parties
intended delivery to purchaser at place of shipment, is
negatived by other circumstances. The contracts were
executory and related to unascertained goods. Section 19,
Rule 4 (2), Act of May 19, 1915, P. L. 543, 548. It does
not appear that when they were made appellant had
any fuels of the kinds covered, or that those to be delivered were then in existence. There was no selection
of goods by purchasers. Appellant was not required by
the contracts to obtain the fuels at Wilmington but was
free to effect performance by shipping from any place
within or without Pennsylvania. It is the practice in
appellant's business to sell f. o. b. at a specified place
in order to fix the price, and such billing may be merely
price-fixing and not an indication of the source or place

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

of shipment. The reference to the tax in the orders and
invoices would have been unnecessary if delivery were
not to be made in Pennsylvania; for if made at Wilmington, the transactions wotild not have been within the provision of the taxing act. Upon these considerations, the
state supreme court held that the liquid fuels in question
were by appellant "sold and delivered" to purchasers in
Pennsylvania. And see Dannemiller v. Kirkpatrick, 201
Pa. 218, 224; 50 Atl. 928. Frank Pure Food Co. v. Dodson, 281 Pa. 125; 126 Atl. 243. Charles E. Hires Co. v.
Stromeyer, 65 Pa. Super. Ct. 241, 243. The ruling is not
challenged by appellant and is binding upon it here.
These contracts did not require or necessarily involve
'transportation across the state boundary. The precise
question is whether the mere fact that -appellant caused
the fuels to be shipped from Delaware for delivery in
tank cars-deemed original packages (Askren v. Continental Oil Co., 252 U.S. 444, 449)--on purchasers' sidings,
as agreed, makes imposition of the tax repugnant to the
commerce'clause. There is nothing to indicate legislative
purpose to discriminate 'against liquid fuels brought into
Pennsylvania to be delivered in fulfillment of sales contracts or there to be used or sold. The commerce clause
does not prevent taxation of goods by the State in which.
they are found merely because brought from another
State, for that would unduly trammel state power of taxation and produce gross inequality and injustice. Woodruff
v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 137. The limitation appellant
puts on ยง A would operate to the extent of three cents a
gallon in favor of liquid fuels delivered, as in this case,
from a place in another State, against those delivered in
Pennsylvania from sources in that Commonwealth over
routes wholly therein. And, if that section may not be
,constitutionally' construed to tax the shipments here in
question, then equally free from the burden must be

WILOIL CORP. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
169

Opinion of the Court.

liquid fuel transported by rail or truck from Pennsylvania
sources to places of delivery in that State over any route
not wholly therein.
Our decisions show that, if goods carried from one
State have reached destination in another where they are
held in original packages for sale, the latter has power
without discrimination to tax them as it does other property within its jurisdiction. Woodruff v Parham, supra;
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 632; American Steel
& Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500, 519-522; Sonneborn
Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U. S. 506. And as that rule applies
whether the burden falls directly or indirectly (Banker
Bros. Co. v. Pennsylvania,222 U. S. 210) it is not material whether the tax is upon the sale and delivery or upon
the property. Admittedly the sales contracts were made
in Pennsylvania. Deliveries to purchasers at destination
were made in accordance with the terms of the sales. As
interstate transportation was not required or contemplated, it may be deemed as merely incidental. Cf.
Moore v. N. Y. Cotton Exchange, 270 U. S. 593, 604.
Ware & Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405, 412-413.
The act lays no burden on interstate commerce as such,
and if any can be said to result from the imposition,
it is indirect and precisely as that which would have resulted if deliveries had been made exclusively by intrastate transportation from Pennsylvania sources. We
need not consider whether deliveries to purchasers ended
the interstate commerce involved, including all incidents
that in other connections might constitute an essential
part of that which is covered by the commerce clause.
Cf. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Pacific Paper Assn., 273
U. S. 52, 63. Upon the principle applied here recently
in Minnesota v Blasius, 290 U. S. 1, the liquid fuels were
taxable in Pennsylvania.
Affirmed.

