PANHANDLE CO. v. HIGHWAY COMM'N. 613
Counsel for Parties.

608

The legislature was entitled to consider the general effects
of the practices which it described, and if these effects
were injurious in facilitating unwarranted and misleading
claims, to counteract them by a general rule, even though
in particular instances there might be no actual deception
or misstatement. Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425, 429;
Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 201; Hebe Co.
v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303; Pierce Oil Corp. v. Hope, 248
U. S. 498, 500; Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S.
365, 388, 389.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
PANHANDLE EASTERN PIPE LINE CO. v. STATE
HIGHWAY COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF KANSAS.

No. 412.

Argued February 7, 1935. Reargued March 13, 1935.Decided April 1, 1935.

1. A statute of Kansas (Laws 1929, c. 225, § 16) which, as construed
by the state supreme court, authorized the state highway commission to order a pipe line company, at its own expense, to
relocate and make certain other changes in its pipe and telephone
lines, then located on a private right of way, to conform to plans
adopted for new highways to cross the right of way, deprives the
company of its property without due process of law in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 618.
2. Railroad grade crossing cases and New Orleans Gas Light Co. v.
Drainage Commission, 197 U. S. 453, distinguished. Pp. 621, 622.
139 Kan. 185, 849; 29 P. (2d) 1104; 33 P. (2d) 151, reversed.

from a judgment, of the Supreme Court of
Kansas granting a peremptory writ of mandamus to enforce an order of the State Highway Commission.
APPEAL

Mr. G. J. Neuner, with whom Mr. Chester J. Gerkin
was on the brief, for appellant.

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Messrs. Otho W. Lomax and Wint Smith, with whom
Mr. Kirke W. Dale was on the brief, for appellee.
Section 3 of the Act provides that no substantial change
shall be made in the state highways unless required by
the public safety, and the Act makes no pretense of authorizing the Commission to make a final determination
of this fact. The Supreme Court of Kansas has sustained
the right of parties litigant to question the necessity in the
interest of public safety.
The requirements of notice and hearing are to be implied from the provisions of the statute.
The statute authorizes judicial review of the action of
the Commission, and appellant has in fact been granted
a full and complete judicial ieview.
Appellant is not denied the equal protection of the law.
The statute is a valid delegation of the police power.
New Orleans Gas Light Co. v. Drainage Comm'n, 197
U. S. 453, 461; Erie R. Co. v. Utility Comm'rs, 254 U. S.
394, 410-411; Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v. Oklahoma, 271
U. S. 303, 307; Lake Shore Ry. Co. v. Clough, 242 U. S.
375; Minneapolis v. Railway Co., 98 Minn. 380; aff'd,
214 U. S. 497; Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Minneapolis,
232 U. S. 430; Chicago & Alton R. Co. v. Tranbarger,238
U. S. 67; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Omaha, 235 U. S.
127; West Chicago R. Co. v. Illinois, 201 U. S. 526; New
York & N. E. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556; Chicago,
B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Kansas Highway Commission, administrative
agency of the State, without any proceeding in condemnation, ordered the appellant Company to make specified
changes in its transmission lines. It refused. By an
original proceeding in the Supreme Court, the Commis-

PANHANDLE CO. v. HIGHWAY COMM'N. 615
613

Opinion of the Court.

sion obtained a peremptory writ of mandamus directing
compliance. The Company insists that to enforce the
Commission's order would deprive it of property without
due process of law, contrary to the 14th Amendment.
Judgment went for the Commission upon the pleadings; there is no dispute concerning the facts; the validity
of the statute said to authorize the order is challenged.
Appellant, a Delaware corporation with power to construct and maintain conduits for transporting natural gas,
obtained authority to do business in Kansas, May 21,
1930, and during that year purchased from the owners
rights of way for pipes, auxiliary telephone lines, etc.
Thereafter, these were constructed; the gas passes in both
interstate and intrastate commerce.
The Commission, created under c. 225, Acts of 1929, is
charged with the duty to lay out, open, relocate, alter, rqdesignate and re~stablish highways throughout the State.
Section 16 of that statute (Supp. Rev. Stats. 1931, also
1933, § 68-415)-copied in the margin*--undertakes to
* Chapter 225, Sbssion Laws of Kansas, 1929.
"Sec. 16. Whenever any person, firm or any corporation created
for the purpose of constructing and maintaining magnetic telegraph
or telephone lines or for the purpose of constructing and maintaining lines for the transmission of electric current or for the purpose
of transporting oil or gas or water by pipe lines, or municipal corporations, shall construct or maintain poles, piers, abutments, pipe
lines or other fixtures along, upon or across any state highways, such
poles, wires, piers, abutments, pipe lines and other fixtures shall be
located upon that part of the right of way of said state highway
-designated by the state highway commission and the state highway
commission is authorized and empowered to require the removal of
such poles; piers, abutments, wires and pipe lines and other fixtures
now upon. state highways from the present location on said state
highways to such part of the right of way of said state highways as the
state highway commission shall designate, and if said person, firm or
corporation, upon receijing notice of the requirement of the state highway commission that said poles, piers, abutments, wires, pipe lines

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

grant power to require removal of abutments, wires and
pipe lines and other fixtures now upon state highways
from the present locations thereon to other designated
parts of the right of way. Unless imposed by this section,
there are no statutory obligations upon pipe line companies with respect to the construction, maintenance or
operation of their lines, whether located upon public highways or private lands.
After the pipes were in operation-1933-the Commission adopted plans for new highways across the Company's right of way at six widely separated places. Permission of the owners of the fee to use the necessary land
was obtained; but appellant declined to permit the use
of its right of way.
Plans for the new highways called for material changes
in the pipe and telephone lines at the crossings--removals, lowerings, casements-estimated to cost above $5,000.
All parties admit that the Commission could not make
these with reasonable safety. Appellant was willing to
do the work if promised repayment of the necessary expense. Purporting to act under § 16, (Dec. 1, 1933), the
Commission ordered it to proceed without compensation.
That the proposed changes would be proper for new highways as planned is admitted; also that the estimated cost
or other fixtures be moved as herein provided, fails to comply with
such requirement of the state highway commission, the state highway
commission may remove such poles, piers, abutments, wires, pipe
lines and other fixtures to such place on the right of way of said
state highways as may be designated by said state highway commission and the cost of such removal shall be paid to said state highway
commission by said person, firm or corporation upon a statement of
cost being furnished to said person, firm or corporation. If said
person, firm or corporation refuses to pay said charges, the state
highway commission. shall notify the attorneygeneral, who shall
bring suit against said person, firm or corporation in the name of
the state highway commission'to recover said amount, such amounts
received from such persons, firms or corporations shall be placed in
the fund from which the cost of such removal was paid."

PANHANDLE CO. v. HIGHWAY COMM'N. 617
613

Opinion of the Court.

is reasonable. But appellant denied the existence of power
to impose this expense upon it; and for that reason refused to comply with the order until the Commission
should agree to refund the outlay.
In its opinion supporting the peremptory mandamus,
the court below declared [1 9 Kan. 185; 29 P. (2d)
1104]:
"The pipe line company's lines are all located on its
own rights of way, procured from landowners, and none
of the lines is located on, along, or across any previously
existing highway."
"The highway commission has acquired rights of way
for the highway improvements from landowners, but has
not obtained consent of the pipe line company to cross or
occupy its right of way.--,,The highway improvements
necessitate certain changes in the pipe line company's
lines. In some instances it is necessary the pipe line
be lowered and encased. In other instances it is necessary
the pipe line and telephone line be iemoved to the outer
edge of right of way newly acquired by the highway commission for the purpose of widening existing highways.
None of the changes will require the pipe line company
to acquire any new or additional right of way."
"The pipe line company contends that, because its
rights pf way were acquired and its structures were installed before the present highway rights of way had been
obtained, and the present improvements had been initiated, it is entitled to compensation for all necessary
expenditures incurred in making an adjustment of its
private use to the later public use of the same rights of
way."
"What the highway commission seeks to do is to
execute the police power of the state to make public
travel on the highways safe., Reasonable regulations to
that end may. be enforced without compensation to cousers of the highway whose structures make public travel

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

unsafe; and because the public use is paramount and
public safety is the desideratum, it makes no difference
whether the highway was established before or after the
privately owned structures were established."
"There is no contention that exercise of the state's
police power over the subject may not be committed to
the state highway commission, and this was in fact done
by c. 225, Laws 1929."
".. . section 16 of the statute provides in effect that
whenever a pipe line is constructed along, upon or across
any highway, its location is s'ubject to control by the
highway commission. . . . With route fixed, right of
way procured, plans adopted, and the highway commission engaged in executing them, the new and widened
highways are, for all purposes of the act, established and
existing highways, upon which the pipe line company
maintains its pipe lines, and location of the pipe lines is
subject to regulation by the highway commission.... The
statute does not authorize, And the orders of the highway
commission do not involve, a taking of private property
without due process of law."
If carried into effect, the challenged order of the Commission would result in taking private property for public
use. Oregon R. & N. Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510, 523,
524; Southern Ry.. Co. v. Virginia, 290 U. S. 190, 194. A
private right of way is an easement and is land. United
States v. Welch, 217 U. S. 333, 339. No compensation
was provided for; none was intended to be made. Ordinarily, at least, such taking is inhibited by the 14th
Amendment. Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Chicago, 166
U. S. 226, 241; Chicago,B. & Q. Ry. v. DrainageComm'rs,
200 U. S. 561, 593; McCoy v. Union Elevated R. Co.,
247 U. S. 354, 363; Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n, 69 Colo. 275,. 279; 193 Pac. 726. See
Lewis, Eminent Domain, (3d ed.) § 223.

PANHANDLE CO. v. HIGHWAY COMM'N. 619
613

Opinion of the Court.

A claim that action is being taken under the police
power of the State cannot justify disregard of constitutional inhibitions. Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U. S.
230, 240; Georgia Power Co. v. Decatur, 281 U. S. 505,
508; Southern Ry. Co. v. Virginia, supra, p. 196.
While the court below held that the Commission exercised police power to make public travel safe, and to accomplish that end might require alteration of the lines
without compensation, it repudiated the suggestion that
the same reasoning would support an order to remove
other lawful structures, e. g. compressor stations.
"Transmission lines of all kinds," it said, "are on the
same footing with railroads with respect to grade crossings." Erie R. Co. v. Public Utility Comm'rs, 254 U. S.
394, was cited and relied upon.
We cannot accept the view that under the Federal
Constitution appellant's transmission lines are upon the
same footing as railroads. The opinion below declared
there was adequate distinction between the two to justify
different classification and treatment under the Act of
1929. And counsel ,for appellee very properly say: "A
railroad grade crossing presents an entirely different problem for public regulation than does a pipeline buried beneath the highway. . . . The twenty-four inch high pressure natural gas transmission line of appellant when
buried beneath the surface of such highways certainly is
not a constant hazard to vehicular traffic."
The record fails to disclose that appellant's lines were
the cause of serious danger to the public. Whatever of
this, if any, would follow extensions of the highways
across them is not comparable to the hazard incident to
the operation of railroad trains. Like any other lawful
structure these lines may have presented obstacles to construction of the proposed highways; ,but this might have
been overcome by condemnation proceedings.

620

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

We are advised by counsel for the Commission that
appellant's Delaware charter "contains no specific reference to any right to intersect or occupy any public
highway, public land or waters." Also, that in Kansas
"beyond the provisions of the statute, R. S. 1933 Supp.,
68-415, [§ 16, c. 225, Acts of 1929] the validity of which
is challenged in this case, there are absolutely no statutory
obligations or regulations imposed upon pipeline companies with respect to the manner of the construction, maintenance or operation of their lines, whether, located upon,
along or across public highways or, private lands."
Where the circumstances sufficed to show that the
public would be subjected to serious danger from moving
trains and supported the inference that the railroad company obtained permission to occupy the soil subject to
reasonable legislation to prevent such danger, this Court
has upheld orders, based upon the state's police power, to
change tracks, eliminate grade crossings, etc.
"The company must be deemed to have laid its tracks
within the corporate limits of the city subject to the condition-not, it is true, expressed, but necessarily implied-that new streets/.of the city 'might be opened and
extended from time to time across its tracks as the public
convenience required, and under such restrictions as
might be prescribed by statute. . . . The plaintiff in error took its charter subject to the power of the State to
provide for the safety of the public, in so far as the safety
of the lives and persons of the people "were involved in
the operation of the railroad. The company laid its
tracks subject to the condition necessarily implied that
their use could be so regulated by competent authority
as to insure the public safety." Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co.
v. Chicago, 166 U. S.226, 250, 252.
"The railway company .accepted its franchise from the
State, subject necessarily to the condition that it would
conform at its own expense to any regulations .not arbi-

PANHANDLE CO. v. HIGHWAY COMM'N. 621
613

Opinion of the Court.

trary in their character, as to the opening or use of streets,
which had for their object the safety of the public, or the
promotion of the public convenience, and which might,
from time to time, be established by the municipality,
when proceeding under legislative authority, within
whose limits the company's business was conducted."
Cincinnati,I. & W. Ry, Co. v. Connersville, 218 U. S. 336,
343. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. v. Minneapolis, 232 U. S.
430, 440.
Erie R. Co. v. Board of Public Utility Comm'rs, supra,
opinion by Mr. Justice Holmes, goes upon the theory that
it could be reasonably said that public safety required the
changes, and that the order of the Commission "should
be regarded as stating a condition that must be complied
with if the company continues to use." the soil. Also,
"the authority of the railroads to project their moving
masses across thoroughfares must be taken to be subject
to the implied limitation that it may be cut down whenever and so far as the safety of the public requires." .
Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393, 413,
415-416, Mr. Justice Holmes again writing, elucidates the
doctrine of the Erie's case.
"As long recognized, some values are enjoyed under
an implied limitation and must yield to the police power.
But obviously the implied limitation must have its limits,
or the contract and due process clauses are gone. One
fact for consideration in determining such limits is the
extent of the diminution. When it reaches a certain
magnitude, in most if not in all cases there must be an
exercise of eminent domain and compensation to sustain
the act."
Accordingly the court refused to sustain a Pennsylvania
statute as an exercise of the police .power which forbade
the mining of anthracite coal under streets in such a way
as to cause the subsidence of any structure used as a human habitation. "The rights of the public in a street

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.

622

Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

purchased or laid out by eminent domain are those that
it has paid for. If in any case its representatives have
been so short sighted as to acquire only surface rights
without the right of support, we see no more authority
for supplying the latter without compensation than there
was for taking the right of way in the first place and refusing to pay for it because the public wanted it very
much.

. .

. We are in danger of forgetting that a strong

public desire to improve the public condition isnot enough to warrant achieving the desire by a shorter
cut than the constitutional way of paying for the
change."
The rule in respect of railroad crossings applies when
there is substantial risk of injury to the public from the
operation of trains, and ground to imply the company's
consent to take such measures as may be necessary to
prevent the hazard. This Court has not. sanctioned extension of the rule to wholly dissimilar circumstances; it
does not apply to structures which are unattended- by
serious danger to the public.
The police power of a State, while not susceptible of
definition with circumstantial precision, must be exercised
within a limited ambit and is subordinate to constitutional
limitations. It springs from the obligation of the State to
protect its citizens and provide for the safety and good
order of society. Under it there is no unrestricted authority to accomplish whatever the public may presently
desire. It is' the governmental power of self protection,
and permits reasonable regulation of rights and property
in paticulars essential to the preservation of the community from injury. New York & N. E. R. Co. v. Bristol,
151 U. S. 556.
New Orleans Gas Light Co. v. Drainage Commission,
197 U., S. 453, and similar cases concerning pipes in public
streets, are not controlling. In them the pipes were
laid upon agreement, actual or implied, that the owner

DOHERTY & CO. v. GOODMAN.
Statement of the Case.

613

would make reasonable changes when directed by the
municipality.
As construed below, the challenged statute authorizes
an arbitrary and unreasonable order by the State Highway Commission, whose enforcement would deprive appellant of rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.
The questioned judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE CARDozo
the result.

concur in

HENRY L. DOHERTY & CO. v. GOODMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.

No. 469. Argued-February 11, 1935.-Decided April 1, 1935.
A statute of Iowa (Code, § 11079) provides that, where an office is
maintained for the transaction of any business in a county other
than that in which the principal resides, service of process in any
action arising out of the conduct of such office may be made on
any agent or clerk there employed. The statute was construed as
authorizing a personal judgment against a nonresident individual
who, though never personally within the State, established an office
within the State for dealing in securities, a business subjected to
special regulation by the State, the service of process having been
made upon one who was manager of the office both at the time
the contract out of which the suit arose was executed and at the
time of the service., Held, as so applied, the statute does not
violate any right guaranteed by the Federal Constitution. Art. IV,
§ 2; Fourteenth Amendment, § 1. P. 628.
218 Iowa 529; 255 N. W. 667, affirmed.

from the affirmance of a judgment entered after
the overruling of a special plea to the jurisdiction, in an
action for damages arising from a sale of stock.
APPEAL

