NORRIS v. ALABAMA.
580

Counsel for Parties.

Auto Exchange Corp., 262 U. S. 544; Hanover Fire Ins.
Co. v. Harding,272 U. S. 494; and Guinn v. United States,
238 U. S. 347, 363, require that the Indiana statute in
question, as construed and applied in this case, be held
void as contravening the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and that the judgment under
review be reversed accordingly.
NORRIS v. ALABAMA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 534. Argued February 15, 18, 1935.--Decided April 1, 1935.
1. Exclusion of all negroes from a grand jury by which a negro is
indicted, or from the petit jury by which he is tried for the offense,
resulting from systematic and arbitrary exclusion of negroes from
the jury lists solely because of their race or color, is a denial of the
equal protection of the laws guaranteed to him by the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 589.
2. Whenever a conclusion of law of a state court as to a federal
right is so intermingled with findings of fact that the latter control
the former, it is incumbent upon this Court to analyze the facts
in order that the enforcement of the federal right may be assured.
P. 590.
3. Evidence reviewed and found to establish systematic exclusion of
negroes from jury service in two Alabama counties, solely because
of their race and color. Pp. 590, 596.
229 Ala. 226; 156 So. 556, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

293 U. S. 552, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a conviction of Fape.
Mr. Samuel S. Leibowitz for petitioner.

Mr. Thomas E. Knight, Jr., Attorney General of Alabama, with whom Mr. Thomas Seay Lawson, Assistant
Attorney General, was on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

HUGHES

294 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioner, Clarence Norris, is one of nine negro boys
who were indicted in March,' 1931, in Jackson County,
Alabama, for the crime @f rape. On being brought to trial
in that county, eight were convicted. The Supreme Court
of Alabama reversed the conviction of one of these and
affirmed that of seven, including Norris. This Court reversed the judgments of conviction upon the ground that
the defendants had been denied due process of law in
that the trial court had failed in the light of the circumstances disclosed, and of the inability of the defendants
at that time to obtain counsel, to make an effective appointment of counsel to aid them in preparing and presenting their defense.. Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S.
45.
After the remand, a, motion for change of venue was
granted and the cases were transferred to Morgan County.
Norris was brought to trial in November, 1933. At the
outset, a motion was made on his behalf to- quash the
indictment upon the ground of the- exclusion of negroes
from juries in Jackson County where the indictment was
found. A motion was also made to quash the trial venire
in Morgan County upon the ground of the exclusion iof
hiegroes from juries in that county. In relation to tuch
county, the charge was of long continued, systematic and
arbitrary exclusion of qualified negro citizens from service
on juries, solely because of their race and color, in violation of the Constitution of the United States. The State
joined issue on this charge and after hearing the evidence,
which we shall presently review, the trial judge denied
both motions, and exception was taken.. The trial then
proceeded and resulted in the conviction of. Norris who
was sentenced to death. •On appeal, the Supreme Court
of the State considered and 4ecided the federal question

NORRIS v. ALABAMA.
587

Opinion of the Court.

which Norris had raised, and affirmed the judgment. 229
Ala. 226; 156 So. 556. We granted a writ of certiorari.
293 U. S. 552.
First. There is no controversy as to the constitutional
principle involved. That principle, long since declared,
was not challenged, but was expressly recognized, by the
Supreme Court of the State. Summing up precisely the
effect of earlier decisions, this Court thus stated the principle in Carter v,Texas, 177 U. S. 442, 447, in relation to
exclusion from service on grand juries: "Whenever by
any action of a State, whether through its legislature,
through its courts, or through its executive or administrative officers, all persons of the African race are excluded,
solely because of their race or color, from serving as grand
jurors in the criminal prosecution of a person of the African race, the equal protection of the laws is denied to him,
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitu•tion of the United States. Strauder v. West Virginia, 100
U. S.303; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S.370, 397; Gibson
v. Mississippi, 162 U. S.565." This statement was repeated in the same terms in Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S.
226, 231, and again in Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S.316, 319.
The principle is equally applicable to a similar exclusion
of negroes from service on petit juries. 'Strauder v. West
Virginia, supra; Martin v. Texas, supra. And although
the state statute defining the qualifications of jurors may
be fair on its face, the constitutional provision affords protection against action of the State through its administrative officers in effecting the prohibited discrimination.
Neal v. Delaware, supra; Carter v. Texas, supra. Compare Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S 313, 322, 323; In re
Wood, 140 U. S.278, 285; Thomas v. Texas, 212 U. S.278,
282, 283.
The question is of the application of this established
principle to the facts disclosed by the record. That the
question is one of fact does not relieve us of the duty to

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

determine whether in truth a federal right has been denied. When a federal right has been specially set up and
claimed in a state court, it is our province to inquire not
merely whether it was denied in express terms but also
whether it was denied in substance and effect. If this
requires an examination of evidence, that examination
must be made. Otherwise, review by this Court would
fail of its purpose in safeguarding constitutional rights.
Thus, whenever a conclusion of law of a state court as to
a federal right and findings of fact are so intermingled'
that the latter control the former, it is incumbent upon
us to analyze the facts in order that the appropriate enforcement of the federal right may, be assured. Creswill
v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246, 261; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 593; Ward
v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17, 22; Davis v. Wechsler, 263
U. S. 22, 24; Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S. 380, 385,
386; Ancient Egyptian Order v. Michaux, 279 U. S.
737, 745.
Second. The evidence on the motion to quash the indictment. In 1930, the total population of Jackson
County, where the indictment was found, was 36,881, of
whom 2688 were negroes. The male population over
twenty-one years of age numbered 8801, and of these, 666
were negroes.
The qualifications of jurors were thus prescribed by the
state statute (Alabama Code, 1923, § 8603): "The jury
commission shall place on the jury roll and in the jury
box the names of all male citizens of the county who are
generally reputed to be honest and intelligent men, and
are esteemed in the community for their integrity, good
character, and sound judgment, but no person must be
selected who is under twenty-one or over sixty-five years
of age, or, who is an habitual drunkard, or who, being
afflicted with a permanent disease .or phygical weakness
is unfit to discharge the duties of a juror, or who cannot.

NORRIS v. ALABAMA.
587

Opinion of the Court.

read English, or who has ever been convicted of any
offense involving moral turpitude. If a person cannot
read English and has all the other qualifications prescribed herein and is a freeholder or householder, his
name may be placed on the jury roll and in the jury
box." See Gen. Acts, Alabama, 1931, No. 47, p. 59.
Defendant adduced evidence to support the charge of
unconstitutional discrimination in the actual administration of the statute in Jackson County. The testimony, as
the state court said, tended to show that "in a long number of years no negro had been called for jury service
in that county." It appeared that no negro had served
on any grand or petit jury in that county within the
memory of witnesses who hadlived there all their lives.
Testimony to that effect was given by men whose ages
ran from fifty to seventy-six years. Their testimony wa s
uncontradicted. It was supported by the testimony of
officials. The clerk of the jury commission and the clerk
of the circuit court had never known of a negro serving
on a grand jury in Jackson County. The court reporter,
who had not missed a session in that county in twentyfour years, and two jury commissioners testified to the
same effect. One of the latter, who was a member of the
commission which made up the jury roll for the grand
jury which found the indictment, testified that he had
"never known of a single instance where any negro sat.
on any grand or petit jury in the entire history of that
county."
That testimony in itself made out a prima facie case of
the denial of the equal protection which the Constitution
guarantees. See Neal v. Delaware,supra. The case thus
made was supplemented by direct testimony that specified negroes, thirty or more in number, were qualified for
jury. service. Among these were negroes who were members of school boards, or trustees, of colored- schools, and
property owners and householders. It also appeared that

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

negroes from that county had been called for jury service
in the federal court. Several of those who were thus described as qualified were witnesses. While there was testimony which'cast doubt upon the qualifications of some
of the negroes who had been named, and there was also
general testimony by the editor of a local newspaper who
gave his opinion as to the lack of "sound judgment" of
the "good negroes" in Jackson County, we think that the
definite testimony as to the actual qualifications of individual negroes, which was not met by any -testimony
equally direct, showed that there were negroes in Jackson
County qualified for jury service.
The question arose whether names of negroes were in
fact on the jury roll. The books containing the jury roll
for Jackson County for the year 1930-31 were produced.
They were produced from the custody of a member of the
jury commission which, in 1931, had succeeded the commission which had made up the jury roll from which the
grand jury in question had been drawn. On the pages
of this roll appeared the names of six negroes. They
were entered, respectively, at the end of the precinct lists
which were alphabetically arranged. The genuineness of
these entries was disputed. It appeared that after the
jury roll in question had been made up, and after the new
jury commission had taken office, one of the new commissioners directed the new clerk to draw lines after the
names which had been placed on the roll by the preceding
commission. These lines, on the pages under consideration, were red lines, and the clerk of the old commission
testified that they were not put in by him. The entries
made by the new clerk, for the new jury roll, were below
these lines.
The names of the six negroes were in each instance
written immediately above the red lines. An expert of
long experience testified that these names were superim-

NORRIS v. ALABAMA.
587

Opinion of the Court.

posed upon the red lines, that is, that they were written
after the lines had been drawn. The. expert was not crossexamined and no testimony was introduced to contradict
him.1 In denying the motion to quash, the trial judge
expressed the*view that he would not "be authorized to
presume that somebody had committed a crime" or to
presume that the jury board "had been unfaithful to their
duties and allowed the books to be tampered with." His
conclusion was that names of negroes were on the jury
roll.
We think that. the evidence did not justify that conclusion. The Supreme Court of the State did not sustain
it. That court observed that the charge that the names of
negroes were fraudulently placed, on the. roll did not
involve any member of the jury board, and that the charge
"was, by implication at least, laid at the door of the clerk'
of the board." The court, reaching its decision irrespective of that question, treated that phase of the matter
as "wholly immaterial" and hence passed it by "without
any expression of opinion thereon."
The state court rested its decision upon the ground that
even if it were assumed that there was no name of a negro
on the jury roll, it was not established that race or color
caused the omission. The court pointed out that the
statute fixed a high standard of qualifications for jurors
(Green v. State, 73 Ala. 26; State v. Curtis, 210 Ala. 1;
97 So. 291) and that the jury commission was vested With
a wide discretion. The court adverted to the fact that
more white citizens possessing age qualifications had been
omitted from the jury roll than the entire negro popula-:
tion of the county, and regarded the testimony as being
to the effect that "the matter of race, color, politics, religion or fraternal affiliations" had not been discussed by
'The books containing the jury roll in question were produced on
the argument at this bar and were examined by the Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

the commission and had not entered into their consideration, and that no one had been excluded because of race
or color.
The testimony showed the practice of the jury commission. One of the commissioners who made up the jury
roll in question, and the clerk of that commission, testified
as to the manner of its preparation. The other two commissioners of that period did not testify. It was shown
that the clerk, under the direction of the commissioners,
made up a preliminary list which was based on the registration list of voters, the polling list and the tax list, and
apparently also upon the telephone directory. The clerk
testified that he made up a "list of all male citizens between the ages of twenty-one and sixty-five years without
regard to their status or qualifications. The commissioner
testified that the designation "col." was placed after the
names of those who were colored. In preparing the final
jury roll, the preliminary list was checked Off as to qualified jurors with the aid of men whom the commissioners
called in for that purpose from the different precincts.
And the commissioner testified that in the selections for
the juxy roll no one was "automatically or systematically" excluded, or excluded on account of race or color;
that he "did not inquire as to color, that was not
discussed."
But, in appraising the action of the commissioners,
these statements cannot be divorced from other testimony. As we have seen, there was testimony, not overborne or discredited, that there were in fact negroes in
the county qualified for jury service. That testimony was
direct and specific. After eliminating those persons as to
whom there was some evidence of lack of qualifications,
a considerable number of others remained. The fact that
the testimony as to these persons, fully identified, was not
challenged by evidence appropriately direct, cannot be

NORRIS v. ALABAMA.
587

Opinion of the Court.

brushed aside. There is no ground for an assumption
that the names of these negroes were not on the preliminary list. The inference to be drawn from the testimony
is that they were on that preliminary list, and were designated on that list as the names of negroes, and that
they were not placed on the jury roll. There was thus
presented a test of the practice of the commissioners.
Something more than mere general asseverations was required. Why were these names excluded from the jury
roll? Was it because of the lack of statutory qualifications? Were the qualifications of negroes actually and
properly considered?
The testimony of the commissioner on this crucial question puts the case in a strong light. That testimony
leads to the conclusion that these or other negroes wele
not excluded on account of age, or lack of esteem in the
community for integrity and judgment, -or because of
disease or want of any other qualification. The commissioner's answer to specific inquiry upon this point was
that negroes were "never discussed." .We give in the
margin quotations from his testimony.!
" Q. Did you ever exclude from the jury rolls any negroes because
you found first, he was a man under twenty-one years old or over
sixty-five, and he was excluded by reason of his age; secondly because
he was a person who wasn't esteemed in the community for being a
-decent and honorable citizen, for good sound common sense and.
judgment, did you ever see or hear of them not going to take that
negro because he wasn't esteemed in the community for good sense
and judgment?' A. No, sir.
"Q. Did you ever have occasion to say, I can't take that negro
because he is a fellow that has a disease. which may affect or does
affect, his mentality, did you ever say that to yourself, with reference
to any particular negro? A. No, sir, negroes was never discussed.
"Q. Did you ever say to yourself as a jury commissioner in compiling those lists, I am not going to take that .negro because he*has
been copvicted before of a crime involving moral turpitude, have you
ever excluded a negro on that ground, -did. you evr 'find any negro

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

We are of the opinion that the evidence required a
different result from that reached in the state court. We
think that the evidence that for a generation or longer no
negro had been called for service on any jury in Jackson
County, that there were negroes qualified for jury service,
that according to the practice of the jury commission
their names would normally appear on the preliminary
list of male citizens of the requisite age but that no
names of negroes were placed on the jury roll, and the
testimony with respect to the lack of appropriate consideration of the qualifications of negroes, established the
discrimination which the Constitution forbids. The motion to quash the indictment upon that ground should
have been granted.
Third. The evidence on the motion to quash the trial
venire. The population of Morgan County, where the
trial was had, was larger than that of Jackson County,
and the proportion -of negroes was much greater' The
total population of Morgan County in 1930 was 46,176,
and of this,number 8,311 were negroes.
Within the memory of witnesses, long resident there,
no negro had ever served on a jury in that county or had
been called for such service. Some of these witnesses
were over fifty years of age and had always lived in Morthat came within that' category, under your personal knowledge in

Jackson County? A. I couldn't recall any, no, sir, I don't know.
"Q. Have you ever known, of any negro in Jackson County who
was excluded by reason of the fact that he could not read English,
and that negro'at the same time wasn't a free holder or house holder,
did you ever say I can't take that negro because he is prohibited
under the rules from serving by reason of that provision? A. No, sir.
"Q. Or anybody in your presence? A. It never was discussed.
"Q. You had been a jury commissioner how long? A. I was on
it under Bibb Graves administration, 1928, 1929, 1930.
"Q. Three years? A. Yes, sir.
"Q. And you never had occasion to exclude any negro in Jackson
County by reason of the disqualifying provisions I have just called
to your attention? A. Not to my personal knowledge, no, sir."

NORRIS v. ALABAMA.
587

Opinion of the Court.

gan County. Their testimony was not contradicted. A
clerk of the circuit court, who had resided in the county
for thirty years, and who had been in office for over four
years, testified that during his official term approximately
2500 persons had been called for jury service and that
not one of them was a negro; that he did not recall "ever
seeing any single person of the colored race serve on any
jury in Morga'n County."
There was abundant evidence that there were a large
number of negroes in the county who were qualified for
jury service. Men of intelligence, some of whom were
college graduates, testified to long lists (said to contain
nearly 200 names) of such qualified negroes, including
many business men, owners of real property and householders. When defendant's counsel proposed to call many
additional witnesses in order to adduce further proof of
qualifications of negroes for jury service, the triel judge
limited the testimony, holding that the evidence was
cumulative.
We find no warrant for a conclusion that the names of
any of the negroes as to whom this testimony was given,
or of any other negroes, were placed or the jury rolls. NoL
such names were identified. The evidence that for many
years no negro had been called for jury service itself
tended to show the absence of the names of negroes from
the jury rollh, and the State made no effort to prove their
presence. The trial judge limited the defendant's proof
"to the present year, the present jury roll." The sheriff
of the county, called as a witness for defendants, scanned
the jury roll and after "looking over every single name
on that jury roll, from A to Z," was unable to point out
"any single negro on it."
For this long-continued, unvarying, and wholesale exclusion of negroes from jury service we find no justification consistent with the constitutional mandate. We have
carefully examined the testimony of the jury commissioners upon which'the state court based its decision. One

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

of these commissioners testified in person and the other
two submitted brief affidavits. By the state act (Gen.
Acts, Ala., 1931, No. 47, p. 55), in force at the time the
jury roll in question was made up, the clerk of the jury
board was required to obtain the names of all male citizens of the county over twenty-one and under sixty-five
years of age, and their ocqupation, place of residence and
place of business. (Id., p. 58, § 11.) The qualifications
of those who were to be placed on the jury roll were the
same as those prescribed by the earlier statute which we
have already quoted. (Id., p. 59, § 14.) The member of
the jury board, who testified orally, said that a list was
made up which included the names of all male citizens of
suitable age; that black residents were not excluded from
this general list; that in compiling the jury roll he did
not consider race or color; that no one was excluded for
that reason; and that he had placed on the jury roll the
names of persons possessing the qualifications under the
statute. The affidavits of the other members of the board
contained general statements to the same effect.
We think that this evidence failed to rebut the strong
prima facie case which defendant had made. That showing as to the long-continued exclusion of negroes from
jury service, and as to the many negroes qualified for
that service, could not be met by mere generalities. If,
in the presence of such testimony as defendant adduced,
the mere general assertions by officials of their performance of duty were to be accepted as an adequate justification for the complete exclusion of negroes from jury
service, the constitutional provision-adopted with special reference to their protection-would be but a vain
and illusory requirement. The general attitude of the
jury commissioner is shown by the following extract from
his testimony: "I do not know of any negro in Morgan
County over twenty-one and under sixty-five who is generally reputed to be honest and intelligent and who is
esteemed in the community for his integrity, good char-

NORRIS v. ALABAMA.
587

Opinion of the Court.

acter and sound judgment, who is not an habitual drunkard, who isn't afflicted with a permanent disease or physical weakness which would render him unfit to discharge
the duties of a juror, and who can read English, and who
has never been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude." In the light of the testimony given by defendant's witnesses, we find it impossible to accept such a
sweeping characterization of the lack of qualifications of
negroes in Morgan. County. It is so sweeping, and so
contrary to the evidence as to the many qualified negroes,
that it destroys the intended effect of the commissioner's
testimony.
In Neal v. Delaware, supra, decided over fifty years ago,
this Court observed that it was a "violent presumption,"
in which the state court had there indulged, that the uniform exclusion of negroes from juries, during a period of
many years, was solely because, in the judgment of the
officers, charged with the selection of grand and petit
jurors, fairly exercised, " the black race in Delaware wer6
utterly disqualified by want of intelligence, experience,
or moral integrity, to sit on juries." Such a presumption
at the present time would be no less violent with respect
to the exclusion of the negroes of Morgan County. And,
upon the proof contained in the record now before us, a
conclusion that their continuous and total exclusion from
juries was because there were none possessing the requisite
qualifications, cannot be sustained.
We are concerned only with the federal question which
we have discussed, and in view of the denial of the federal
right suitably asserted, the judgment must be reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
\11.

JUSTICE McREY.'NOLDS did not hear the argument

and took no part in the consideration and decision of this
eaSe.

