216

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

The petitioner makes a point that the property or part
of it subjected to the levy was not of such a nature as to
have a situs in Montana or to be amenable to process
issuing from her courts. No such point was made in the
record of the proceedings in the court below. No such
point was made in this court in the petition for certiorari
to bring the case here for review. It will not be considered now. Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90, 98; Zellerbach Paper Co. v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 172, 182; Helvering v. Taylor, 293 U. S. 507.
The decree should be affirmed, and it is so ordered.
Affirmed.
JENNINGS, RECEIVER, ET AL. v. UNITED STATES
FIDELITY & GUARANTY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 338. Argued January 16, 17, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.
1. National banks are subject to state laws in so far as these are
consistent with the policy and provisions, express or implied, of
the National Bank Act or other federal statutes. P. 219.
2. Under § 2 of the Bank Collection Code, as adopted in Indiana,
the relation between a bank forwarding a check for collection and
the collecting bank is that of principal and agent, until the agent
has finished the business of collection. P. 219.
3. In the absence of tokens of a contrary intention, the better common-law doctrine is that the agency of a collecting bank is brought
to an end by the collection of the paper, the bank being from then
on in the posiion of a debtor, with liberty, like debtors generally,
to use the proceeds as its own. P. 219.
4. A collecting bank need not collect in cash if another way has the
sanction of law or custom to which the parties may be held to have
impliedly consented. P. 220.
5. Under § 9 of the Bank Collection Code of Indiana, a collecting
bank, as agent, is not under a duty to collect for cash but may
collect by having the collection item set off against checks owed by
itself, in a local clearing-house transaction in the customary way;

JENNINGS v. U. S. F. & G. CO.
216

Counsel for Parties.

and thereafter the liability of the bank to the forwarder or owner
is that of i debtor. P. 221.

6. A national bank in Indiana became insolvent after collecting a
check by a local clearing wherein the check was set off against
checks of greater amount owed by the bank itself. Held that in
the absence of wrongdoing, there is no ground for impressing the
bank's assets with a constructive trust in favor of its principal;
and neither is there ground for an implied trust, since the money
proceeds of the transaction did not come into the bank as an identifiable fund but merely went to reduce its liabilities, and to infer
that a trust was transferred from the proceeds to an equivalent
portion of the bank's cash resources would be without warrant in
the intention of the parties. Pp. 221-224.
7. A debt does not furnish a continuum upon which a trust can be
imposed after cancellation or extinguishment has put the debt out
of existence. P. 224.
8. As applied to a national bank, § 13 of the Indiana Bank Collection Code, purporting to make the owners of paper which the bank
has collected but for which they have not been satisfied, preferred
claimants, in the event of the bank's failure, upon all of its assets,
irrespective of whether the funds representing their paper can be
traced or identified as part of such assets or as intermingled with
or converted into other assets of the bank,-is inconsistent with
the system of equal distribution established by federal law (R. S.,
§ 5236) and is therefore invalid. P. 225.
71 F. (2d) 618, reversed.

CERTIoR.i, 293 U. S. 543, to review the affirmance of a
judgment of the District Court, 4 F. Supp. 569, in an action, brought originally in an Indiana court, by the payee
of a check, against a national bank and its receiver, to
impress a trust upon its assets.
Messrs. John F. Anderson and George P. Barse, with

whom Mr. F. G. Awalt was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Arthur L. Gilliom, with whom Mr. Samuel 0. Pickens was on the brief, for respondent.

By leave of Court, Messrs. F. G. Awalt and George P.
Barse filed a brief on behalf of the Comptroller of the

Currency, as amicus curiae.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U: S.

MR. JUSTICE CARDozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A trust has been impressed upon the assets of a national bank in the hands of a receiver for the proceeds of
a check collected through a clearing house before the
closing of the bank by the Comptroller of the Currency.
The question is whether the trust may be upheld.
On December 29, 1931, the Commercial Trust Company of Gary, Indiana, as maker, delivered to the respondent, United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company,
a check to the ordbr of respondent in the sum of $2,196.89
upon the Gary State Bank of Gary, Indiana, as drawee.
The check, duly endorsed by the payee, was deposited in
a bank in Indianapolis, and thereafter was transmitted for
collection to the National Bank of America at Gary, Indiana, being received for that purpose on December 31,
1931. At that time both the collecting bank (the National Bank of America) and the drawee bank (Gary
State Bank) were members of the Gary Clearing House
Association. In accordance .with banking custom the National Bank of America delivered to the local clearing
house whatever checks in its possession were payable by
the member banks (a total of $10,425.45) including the
foregoing item of $2,196.89, and received in return the
checks drawn on itself ($il,470.19). The outcome was a
debit balance of $1,044.74, which it paid on the same
day by a draft, thereafter duly honored, to. the order
of the clearing house. At the same time it delivered to
the forwarding bank in Indianapolis a draft for $3,660.83,
which covered along with other items the check for $2,196.89, collected from the drawee in the manner just described. Before the draft so transmitted could be honored, its maker, the collecting bank, had been forced to
close its doors (January 4, 1932), and the Comptroller of
the Currency was in possession of the business.

JENNINGS v. U. S. F. & G. CO.
216

Opinion of the Court.

This action, which was begun in a state court in Indiana
and was thereupon removed to a United States District
Court, was brought by the United States Fidelity and
Guaranty Company, payee of the check for $2,196.89,
against the collecting bank and Jennings, its receiver, to
impress a trust upon the assets to the extent of the
proceeds of collection, and for payment accordingly. The
District Court held that the payee was entitled to a preference over the general creditors of the insolvent bank,
and entered a decree for the face amount of the check
with interest. 4 F. Supp. 569. Upon appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, the
decree was modified as to the interest, and as modified
affirmed. 71 F. (2d) 618. A writ of certiorari brings
the case here.
There was in force in Indiana in 1931 a statute known
as the Bank Collection Code (Indiana Acts, 1929, c. 164 1),
which is applicable to national banks in so far as it is consistent with the policy or provisions, express or reasonably
implied, of the National Bank Act or of other federal
acts of paramount authority. Lewis v. Fidelity & Deposit Co. of Maryland, 292 U. S. 559, 566; First National
263 U. S. 640, 656. Under that code
Bank v. -i'ssouri,
(§ 2), the relation between the forwarding bank and the
collecting bank is that of principal and agent until the
agent has completed the business of collectibn. Whether
a fiduciary relation continues even afterwards, upon the
theory that the proceeds of the collection until remitted
, 1L fcrwarder are subject to a trust, depends upon the
circumstances. In the absence of tokens'of a contrary intention, the better doctrine is, where the common law
prevails, that the agency of the collecting bank is brought
'The Code is stated to have been adopted in as many as eighteen
states. It was framed by counsel for the American Bankers, Association in an endeavor to promote uniformity of banking practice in the
collection of commercial paper.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

to an end by the collection of the paper, the bank from
then on being in the position of a debtor, with liberty,
like debtors generally, to use the proceeds as its own.
Commercial Bank of Pennsylvaniav. Armstrong, 148 U. S.
50; Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2 Wall. 252; Planters'
Bank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483, 501; Hecker-Jones-.
Jewell Milling Co. v. Cosmopolitan Trust Co., 242 Mass.
181, 185, 186; 136 N. E. 333; Freeman's National Bank
v. National Tube Works Co., 151 Mass. 413, 418; 24
N. E. 779; Manufacturers' National Bank v. Continental
Bank, 148 Mass. 553, 558; 20 N. E. 193; First National
Bank of Richmond v. Wilmington & W. R. Co., 77 Fed.
401, 402; PhiladelphiaNational Bank v. Dowd, 38 Fed.
172, 183; Merchants' Bank v. Austin, 48 Fed. 25, 32.2
"One who collects commercial paper through the agency
of banks must be held impliedly to contract that the business may be done according to their well known usages,
so far as to permit the money collected to be mingled with
funds of the collecting bank." Freeman's National Bank
v. National Tube Works Co., supra. There is a contention
for the respondent that the rule at common law has been
modified by statute. We shall consider later on whether
the change, if any, is material upon the record now before
US.
At the closing of its doors on January 4, 1932, the
collecting bank at Gary had finished the business of collection, and had arrived at the stage when it was subject
to a duty, either as trustee or as debtor, to make remittance of the proceeds. In the method of collection there
had been no departure from the ruling of this court in
Federal Reserve Bank v. Malloy, 264 U. S. 160, that an
agent bank is at fault when it accepts anything but cash
in the absence of custom or agreement for the'acceptafnce
The decisions to the contrary are criticized in Hecker-Jones-Jewell
Co. v. Cosmopolitan Trust Co., supra, and additional decisions are
collected by Scott, Cases on Trusts, pp. 67, 68.

JENNINGS v. U. S. F. & G. CO.
216

221

Opinion of the Court.

of a substitute. To preclude the extension of that ruling
to collections through a clearing house, the Bank Collection Code makes provision in § 9 for media of payment
that are to be deemed equivalent to currency. There may
now be acceptance of a bank draft, or settlement through
a clearing house in the customary manner, without involving the agent in liability for damages if the draft is
dishonored or the credit subsequently revoked.' On the
other hand, when credit ceases to be provisional, or when
the accepted instrument is paid, the collecting bank is
liable as debtor, if not otherwise, to the same extent as
-if payment had been made in cash over the counter. One
duty-the duty to collect--is at an end, and another-the
duty to remit-has arisen in its place.
To say that a collecting agent may be held to the liability of a debtor "as if" payment had been made in
cash is not to say that the two methods of collection are
'§ 9. "Where ordinary care is exercised, any agent collecting bank
may receive in payment of an item without becoming responsible as
debtor therefor, whether presented by mail, through the clearing
house or over the counter of the drawee or payor, in lieu of money,
either (a) the check or draft of the drawee or payor upon another
bank or (b) the check or draft of any other bank upon any bank
other than the drawee or payor of the item or (c) such method of
settlement as may be customary in a local clearing house or between
clearing banks or otherwise: Provided, That whenever such agent
collecting bank shall request or accept in payment an unconditional
credit which has been given to it on the books of the drawee or
payor or on the books of any other bank, such .Agent collecting bank
shall become debtor for such item and shall be responsible therefor as
if the proceeds were actually received by it in money."
The time within which credit, when once given, may be revoked is
defined by § 3: "A credit given by a bank for an item drawn on or
payable at such bank shall be provisional, subject to revocation at or
before the end of the day on which the item is deposited in the event
the item is found not payable for any reason. Whenever a credit is
given for an item deposited after banking hours such right of revocation may be exercised during the following business day."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

equivalent for, every other purpose. More particularly
it does not mean that they are equivalent for the purpose
of identifying a res to be subjected to a trust. The distinction is made definite by the controversy before us.
What happened in the clearing house was this, that a
check for $2,196.89, due to the collecting bank as agent or
fiduciary, was used to cancel or extinguish liability upon
a check or checks of equal amount due from it as principal, all with the sanction of statute and with the tacit
assent of the forwarder or owner. At the close of the
day there was not a dollar in the treasury of the agent
that could be identified as part of the proceeds of collection or as a substitute therefor. If the money had been
paid over the counter with the understanding that it
was accepted as a special deposit (Blakey v. Brinson, 286
U. S. 254, 262, 263; People v. City Bank of Rochester, 96
N. Y. 32; Genesee Wesleyan Seminary v. United States
Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 247 N. Y. 52, 55; 159 N. E. 720),
the doctrine of a continuing trust would charge the agent
with a duty to set the proceeds of collection apart from
other assets, and hold them intact for transmission to the
forwarder. Nothing of the kind was done. Nothing of
the kind was required or expected to be done. On the
contrary, .the statute gave notice to the agent that instead
of establishing a trust, it was at liberty to set off what
was due to it in one capacity against what was owing
.by it in another, being liable, however, as debtor when
the set-off became final.
We are not concerned at this time with a constructive
trust in the strict sense, a trust ex maleficio, which may
be fastened upon a wrongdoer irrespective of intention.
Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudence, vol. 1, § 155; vol. 3,
§§ 1044, 1046. There was no wrongdoing here, but conduct wholly regular, with the result that any trust existing must be one implied in fact. In that situation there
is no basis for a holding that a trust was transferred

JENNINGS v. U. S. F. & G. CO.
216

Opinion of the Court.

from the proceeds of collection to an equivalent part of
the cash resources of the agent, the beneficial interest of
the principle being unaffected by the set-off. Cf. Knatchbull v. Hallett, 13 Ch. Div. 696; National Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54, 68; Schuyler v. Littlefield, 232
U. S. 707. To draw such an inference, far from promoting intention, would ignore and override it. By a
permitted course of dealing the proceeds of the check,
instead of being deposited upon collection in the vaults of
the collecting agent, were specifically appropriated to the
discharge of other obligations. There was not even a
partial or proportionate payment that could have found
its way into the vaults, for the balance at the close of
the operations of the day was adverse to the collector
and in favor of the clearing house. These being the facts,
there is no room in our view for the use of those presumptions that affect the conduct of a wrongdoer who draws
upon a mingled fund made up of his own moneys and another's. Knatchbull v. Hallett, supra; National Bank v.
Insurance Co., supra. The presumption collapses when
there is neither trust nor wrong.
For the purposes of this case we do not need to determine whether the Bank Collection Code has changed
the preexisting rule whereby in the absence of tokens of
a contrary intention a bank ceases to be an agent and is
turned into a debtor when collection is complete, without
reference to the form or manner of the payment. If
we assume for present purposes that a trust will attach
under the statute when the proceeds of the collection are
in the hands of the collector, the assumption will not hold
where there are no proceeds of collection that have ever
come into his hands, or where such proceeds as there were
have been so mingled and confused that it is impossible
to follow them. Currency paid over the counter and deposited in a vault is a thing that can be identified and
so subjected to a trust whenever in equity and conscierer,

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

a trust should be implied. Not only that, but a trust so
created will not fail though other dollars may have taken
the place of those originally received, for dollars are fungibles and any one of them will be accepted as a substitute
for another. Knatchbull v. Hallett,supra. But the situation is very different when what has been received by the
collecting agent is not a thing at all, but a reduction of
liabilities by set-off or release. Blakey v. Brinson, supra;
People v. Merchants & Mechanics Bank, 78 N. Y. 269,
272, 273; Hecker-Jones-Jewell Milling Co. v. Cosmopolitan Trust Co., supra, p. 187; City Bank v. Blackmore, 75
Fed. 771; Anheuser-Busch Brewing Association v. Clayton, 56 Fed. 759; Farmers National Bank v. Pribble, 15 F.
(2d) 175, 176; Dickson v. First National Bank, 26 F. (2d)
411; Schilling v. Rowe, 64 F. (2d) 188, 190; Allied Mills v.
Horton, 65 F. (2d) 708, 710; Smith v. Zcrnurray, 69 F.
(2d) 5, 6, 7; First National Bank of St. Petersburg v.
Miami, 69 F. (2d) 346; Wisdom v. Keen, 69 F. (2d) 349.'
A debt does not furnish a continuum upon which a trust
can be imposed after cancellation or extinguishment has
put the debt out of existence.
The truth of this statement, though obvious enough
upon its face, finds point and confirmation when the
benefit, if any, accruing to the debtor is viewed as of the
time of insolvency or later. What was done by the collecting bank through a settlement in the clearing house
has not increased the assets available for distribution in
the hands of the receiver. What was done through that
settlement has had no effect after insolvency except to
diminish liabilities. The dividend that would be due upon
the debts canceled through the set-off if they were now
'Many cases are collected in Bogert, Failed Banks, Collection Items
and Trust Preferences, 29 Mich. Law Review 545, 551, 552.

JENNINGS v. U. S. F. & G. CO.
216

Opinion of the Court.

to be revived is the measure of any benefit accruing to the
creditors. Decisions of other courts, to the extent that
they give support for a different conclusion are built, as
we think, upon an inadequate analysis, and do not win
our approval.' It is the benefit to the creditors, not the
loss to the respondent, that marks the gain to the fund
now held by the receiver. If the respondent is permitted
to prove against the assets on a parity with other creditors, the share thus allotted will correspondi accurately to
whatever accretion has resulted from the act of set-off
and cancellation in the operations of the clearing house.
One other section of the Bank Collection Code is still
to be considered. This is § 13, which has to do, as its
caption indicates, with the procedure following insolvency. What is regulated in that section is not the relation
between a bank and its correspondents during the normal
course of business. What is regulated is the relation and
the remedy when insolvency has set in and business is
suspended.' Then for the first time a trust comes into
For a collection of the cases, see 82 A. L. R. 97.
" Sec. 13. (1) When the drawee or payor, or any other agent collecting bank shall fail or be closed for business by the state bank
commissioner or by action of the board of directors or by other proper
legal action, after an item shall be mailed or otherwise entrusted to it
for collection or payment but before the actual collection or payment
thereof, it shall be the duty of the receiver or other official in charge
of its assets to return such item, if same is in his possession, to the
forwarding or presenting bank with reasonable diligence.
"(3) Where an agent collecting bank other than the drawee or
payor shall fail or be closed for business as above, after having received in any form the proceeds of an item or items entrusted to it
for collection, but without such item or items having been paid or
remitted for by it either in money or by an unconditional credit
given on its books or on the books of any other bank which has

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

being through the action of the statute, a trust coextensive
in its subject matter with all the assets of the bank, irrespective of their nature, and yet a trust for a special class,
the owners of negotiable instruments whose debts remain
unsatisfied after payment of the paper has been collected
by the agent. Cf. Spradlin v. Royal Manufacturing Co.,
73 F. (2d) 776. "Such owner or owners shall be entitled
to a preferred claim upon such assets, irrespective of
whether the fund representing such item or items can be
traced 'and identified as part of such assets or has been
intermingled with or converted into other assets of such
failed bank." A trust so created, to arise upon insolvency,
is a preference under another name. As applied to a national bank, the preference is plainly inconsistent with the
system of equal distribution established by the federal
law. R. S. § 5236; 12 U. S. C. § 194; Davis v. Elmira
Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275, 283, 284; Easton v. Iowa,
188 U. S.220, 229; Cook County National Bank v. United
States, 107 U. S. 445; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Pottorff,
291 U. S.245; Lewis v. Fidelity & Deposit Co. of Maryland, supra. The power of the nation within the field of
its legitimate exercise overrides in case of conflict the
power of the states.
The decree is reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.
been reques~od or accepted so as to constitute such failed collecting
or other bank debtor therefor, the assets of such agent collecting bank
which has failed or been closed for business as above shall be impressed with a trust in favor of the owner or owners of such item or
items for the amount of such proceeds and such owner or owners
shall be entitled to a preferred claim upon such assets, irrespective of
whether the fund representing such item or items can be traced and
identified as part of such assets or has been intermingled with or converted into other assets of such failed bank."

