MOONEY v. HOLOHAN.
87

103

Syllabus.

Fourth. What has been said in respect of the contention that the tax has the effect of an arbitrary discrimi-

nation is a sufficient answer to the contention that property has been taken without due process of law.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for

further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE McREY-

NOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, accepting the opinion and concurring opinion of the
court below as embodying a sound and correct view of the
law applicable to the first and second points discussed
in the opinion just delivered, think the judgment should
be affirmed.
MOONEY v. HOLOHAN, WARDEN.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF HABEAS
CORPUS.

No. -, original. Rule to Show Cause Issued November 12, 1934.
Return to Rule Presented January 7, 1935. Decided January 21,
1935.
1. The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment governs any
action of a State through its legislature, its courts, or its executive
officers, including action through its prosecuting officers. P. 112.
2. A criminal conviction procured by the state prosecuting authorities solely by the use of perjured testimony known by them to be
perjured and knowingly used by them in order to procure the conviction, is without due process of law and in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 112.
3. It is the duty of every State to provide corrective judicial process
for the relief of persons convicted and imprisoned for crime without
due process of law; and it is to be presumed that this duty has been
complied with. P. 113.
4. Semble that in the courts of California the writ of habeas corpus
is available for one who is deprived of his liberty without due proc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondent.

294 U. S.

ess of law in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
P. 113.
5. Before this Court is asked to issue a writ of habeas corpus in the
case of a person held under a state commitment, recourse should be
had to whatever judicial remedy afforded by the State may still
remain open. P. 115.
Leave to file denied.

On a motion for leave to file a petition for habeas cor-

pus. The case was heard upon the petition and upon a
return made by the State, in response to an order to
show cause. The return did not put in issue any of
the facts alleged in the petition but was in the nature
of a demurrer.
Messrs. Frank P. Walsh, John F. Finerty, George T.
Davis, Murray C. Bernays, and Herbert D. David were
on the brief for petitioner.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of California, and
Mr. William F. Cleary, Deputy Attorney General, were
on the return filed in response to the order to show cause.
In this case, as in Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309,
no question respecting the original jurisdiction of the
trial court is raised. Consequently, the contention is
and must be that the alleged fraud occurring during the
course of the trial deprived the trial court of jurisdiction
to receive the verdict and pronounce the sentence.
It is manifest that the due process of law clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment was never intended to deprive
courts generally of the power to hear and determine issues of fact and in so doing to decide which evidence is
true and which evidence is false. That clause must, of
necessity, be held to apply only to the process of law
by means of which jurisdiction over the subject matter
of actions and over the parties to actions is acquired and
retained, that is, by means of which notice is given and
a fair opportunity to be heard is afforded.

MOONEY v. HOLOHAN.
103

Argument for Respondent.

Petitioner's contention, reduced to its final analysis,
is that although the trial court was vested with jurisdiction to hear and determine the issues of fact raised by
the pleadings and had the power to decide which evidence
was true and which evidence was false, yet the court lost
jurisdiction during the course of the trial, and therefore
lost the power to decide which evidence was true and
which evidence was false, by reason of the fact that
during the course of the trial false evidence was introduced against him.
The rule announced by this Court in United States v.
Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61, has been applied in criminal
cases as often as the occasion for its application has
arisen. Springstein v. Saunders, 182 Ia. 658; State v.
Asbell, 62 Kan. 209; Beard v. State, 99 S. W. 837; State
ex rel. Davis v. SuperiorCourt, 15 Wash. 339; Howard v.
State, 58 Ark. 229.
Here we may draw attention to this Court's action in
denying petitioner's application for a writ of certiorari
to review a decision of the Supreme Court of California
wherein it was held that the factual assertions upon which
this petition is based, even if true, did not entitle petitioner to relief from the judgment by virtue of which
petitioner is now being held-a decision following the
rule of the Throckmorton case, supra. 178 Cal. 525, 530,
cert. den., 248 U. S. 589.
Petitioner contends that the rule of law announced
by this Court in the Throckmorton case, supra, and followed by every court in the land, is in need of revision.
He argues that courts should have the power to reopen
cases wherein intrinsic fraud is alleged. That, however,
is a matter for legislative rather than judicial action. At
the present time courts are not empowered, by constitution or statute, to exercise such a jurisdiction. The only
remedial power in such cases is that of executive pardon
or executive clemency.

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondent.

294 U. S.

Petitioner realizes the force of this objection and attempts to overcome it by asserting that intrinsic fraud
reduces the process of law to a mere sham, and that, consequently, this and other courts are given jurisdiction
by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
to set aside judgments procured by intrinsic fraud. He
cites no authority in support of such contention.
Petitioner would persuade this Court to change the
accepted meaning of the word "process," and to so broaden
it as to include that which has never been regarded as
process by any court in the history of our country. He
would have the meaning of the due process clause expanded into a guarantee against the presentation of false
evidence; he would have the federal courts charged with
the duty of setting aside each judgment based, in whole
or in part, upon false evidence, and, in so doing, perform,
if not usurp, the function which, under our system of
law, is the peculiar province of a trial by jury; and he
would have no limit placed upon the period within which,
or the number of times that, such a review could be
invoked.
If the presentation of false evidence is a denial of due
process in criminal cases, it is likewise a denial of due
process in civil cases, and if it is a denial of due
process in cases in which severe penalties or large sums
*are involved, it is likewise a denial of due process in cases
in which nominal penalties and nominal sums are involved. Consequently, if petitioner's contention be sustained, this Court will become the Court not only of last
but of ever continuing resort in all cases, civil as well as
criminal, small as well as large, in which there is a conflict
of evidence and a charge of fabrication.
We concede that if the acts or omissions of a prosecuting attorney have the effect. of withholding from a defendant the notice which must be accorded him under
the due process clause, or if they have the effect of pre-

MOONEY v. HOLOHAN.
103

Argument for Respondent.

venting a defendant from presenting such evidence as he
possesses in defense of the accusation against him, then
such acts or omissions of the attorney may be regarded as
resulting in a denial of due process of law. Such is the
effect qf this Court's decision in Powell v. Alabama, 278
U. S. 45, although, in that case, it was an omission on the
part of the trial judge which was held to have had such
a result.
We make the same concession concerning the acts or
omissions of any one, or of any group of persons; for no
matter from what source, whether it be official or otherwise, an act or omission emanates, if it operate to deprive
the defendant of notice or of an opportunity to be heard,
then there has been a denial of due process of law. Such
is the effect of this Court's decision in Moore v. Dempsey,
261 U. S. 86, cited by petitioner.
Conversely, we contend that it is only where an act or
omission operates so as to deprive a defendant of notice
or so as to deprive him of an opportunity to present such
evidence as he has, that it can be said that due process of
law has been denied. Frank v. Mangum, supra; Powell
v. Alabama, supra; Moore v. Dempsey, supra. Nor does
it make a particle of difference from what source the act
or omission complained of emanates, for it is not the act
or omission itself but its effect upon the hearing accorded
by the court to the defendant that results in, or does not
result in, a denial of due process of law.
Petitioner attempts to differentiate this case from all
previous cases by pointing out that here the State itself
is charged with being a party to the alleged fraud. It is
stated that the prosecuting attorney was acting as an
agent and officer of the State and that consequently his
fraudulent acts must be regarded as having been acts of
the State.
Petitioner does not contend that the State authorized
the prosecuting attorney to suborn perjury or to work a

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondent.

294 U. S.

fraud upon petitioner or upon the trial court. Indeed,
as petitioner well knows, the State of California not only
did not authorize such things, but it made the doing of
them, if, indeed, they were done, crimes against the State
(California Penal Code, §§ 127, 128, 137, 653), grounds
for removing the prosecuting attorney from office and
grounds for disbarring him from the practice of law in
the courts of the State. If the prosecuting attorney did
such things, he did them not with the consent of the
State but against the positive prohibition of the State.
The State itself was injured. The State itself was a victim of the fraud.
However, even if it be admitted that the alleged fraudulent act of the prosecuting attorney ascended to his
principal, the State, it can not be held that such fraudulent act denied due process of law to petitioner unless it
be held that, after ascending to the principal, such fraudulent act descended to the other arm of the Government
and became the act of the trial court.
This is so, because the functions of a prosecuting attorney and of a trial court are entirely different and are
held apart by constitutional mandate. The function of a
prosecuting attorney is to prosecute, to act as accuser, to
be a partisan, to present the evidence on one side of the
case. He has no power to adjudge, to sentence, or, by his
order, to deprive anyone of life, liberty or property. He
is not a part of the tribunal but merely a.pleader before
the tribunal. The trial court is the tribunal. Its function is to hear the evidence on both sides of the case, to
decide which evidence is the more credible, and to pronounce judgment in accordance with such findings of fact.
The court must be impartial between the accuser and the
accused, and, above all, it must hear the accused before
depriving him of life, liberty or property.
Petitioner contends that the trial court, instead of being
a party to'the alleged fraud, was a victim of it. By mak-

MOONEY v. HOLOHAN.
103

Opinion of the Court.

ing such a contention petitioner completely answers his
own argument. Home Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles, 227
U. S. 278, and Raymond v. Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20, are
not in point for the reason that in each the act complained
of was the final process by means of which property was
to be taken without due process of law. Were petitioner
held by virtue of an order of the prosecuting attorney,
those cases would be in point.
It is only where due process of law has been denied that
the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment places any obligation upon the State to supply a
corrective process. The State of California has heard petitioner's complaint a number of times, and in each instance it has received careful consideration. In some instances, that is, where the complaint has been made to the
courts, as such, the courts have carefully pointed out that
they had no jurisdiction to interfere and that the only
remedy rested with the Executive. In the other instances,
that is, where applications for executive clemency have
been made, a full hearing has been given and the executive
has gone to great lengths to explain why executive relief
was being denied.
We respectfully submit that petitioner has failed to
raise a federal question and that, consequently, leave to
file the petition should be denied.
PER CURIAM.

Thomas J. Mooney asks leave to file petition for an
original writ of habeas corpus. He states that he is unlawfully restrained of his liberty by the State of California under a commitment pursuant to a conviction, in
February, 1917, of murder in the first degree and sentence
of death subsequently commuted to life imprisonment.
He submits the record of proceedings set forth in his petition for a writ of habeas corpus presented to the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Court of the United States for the Northern District of
California and dismissed upon the ground that the petitioner had not exhausted his legal remedies in the state
court. Applications to the Judges of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit for allowance of an appeal
to that Court from the judgment of dismissal have severally been denied.
Petitioner charges that the State holds him in confinement without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. The grounds of his charge are, in substance, that
the sole basis of his conviction was perjured testimony,
which was knowingly used by the prosecuting authorities
in order to obtain that conviction, and also that these authorities deliberately suppressed evidence which would
have impeached and refuted the testimony thus given
against him. He alleges that he could not by reasonable
diligence have discovered prior to the denial of his motion
for a new trial, and his appeal to the Supreme Couizt of
the State, the evidence which was subsequently developed
and which proved the testimony against him to have been
perjured. Petitioner urges that the "knowing use" by
the State of perjured testimony to obtain the conviction
and the deliberate suppression of evidence to impeach that
testimony constituted a denial of due process of law.
Petitioner further contends that the State deprives him of
his liberty without due process of law by its failure, in the
circumstances set forth, to provide any corrective judicial
process by which a conviction so obtained may be set
aside.
In support of his serious charges, petitioner submits a
chronological history of the trials, appeals and other judicial proceedings.connected with his conviction, and of
his applications for executive clemency. He sets forth
the evidence which, as he contends, proves the perjury

MOONEY v. HOLOHAN.
103

Opinion of the Court.

of the witnesses upon whose testimony he was convicted
and the knowledge on the part of the prosecuting authorities of that perjury and the suppression by those authorities of impeaching evidence at their command. He
also submits what he insists are admissions by the State
that the testimony offered against him was perjured and
that his conviction was unjustified. In amplification of
these statements, he asks leave to incorporate in his petition, by reference, the voluminous details of the various
proceedings as they were presented -with his petition to
the District Court.
In response to our rule to show cause why leave to file
the petition should not be granted, the respondent has
made return by the Attorney General of the State. With
this return, he submits an appendix of exhibits setting
forth the consent filed by the Attorney General with the
Supreme Court of the State on July 30, 1917, that the
judgment of conviction be reversed and the cause remanded for a new trial, the subsequent opinions of that
Court upon the cases presented to it, the statements of
Governors of the State on applications for executive
clemency made on behalf of this petitioner and of one
Billings (who had been jointly indicted with petitioner
and was separately tried and convicted), and the reports
of Justices of the Supreme Court of thq State, and communications addressed by them, to the Governors of the
State in connection with such applications.
The return does not put in issue any of the facts alleged in the petition. The return is in the nature of a
demurrer. It submits that the petitioner "has failed to
raise a Federal question and that, consequently, leave to
file the petition should be denied." Reviewing decisions
relating to due process, the Attorney General insists that
the petitioner's argument is vitiated by the fallacy "that
the acts or omissions of a prosecuting attorney can ever,

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

in and by themselves, amount either to due process of
law or to a denial of due process of law." The Attorney
General states that if the acts or omissions of a prosecuting attorney "have the effect of withholding from a
defendant the notice which must be accorded him under
the due process clause, or if they have the effect of preventing a defendant from presenting such evidence as
he possesses in defense of the accusation against him, then
such acts or omissions of the prosecuting attorney may be
regarded as resulting in a denial of due process of law."
And, "conversely," the Attorney General contends that
"it is only where an act or omission operates so as to deprive a defendant of notice or so as to deprive him of
an opportunity to present such evidence as he has, that it
can be said that due process of law has been denied."
Without attempting at this time to deal with the
question at length, we deem it sufficient for the present
purpose to say that we are unable to approve this narrow view of the requirement of due process. That requirement, in safeguarding the liberty of the citizen
against, deprivation through the action of the State, embodies the fundamental conceptions of justice which lie
at the base of our civil and political institutions. Hebert
v. Louisiana, 272 U. S. 312, 316, 317. It is a requirement that cannot be deemed to be satisfied by mere notice and hearing if a State has contrived a conviction
through the pretense of a trial which in truth is but used
as a means of depriving a defendant of liberty through
a deliberate deception of court and jury by the presentation of testimony known to be perjured. Such a contrivance by a State to procure the conviction and imprisonment of a defendant is as inconsistent with the
rudimentary demands of justice as is the obtaining of a
like result by intimidation. And the action of prosecuting officers on behalf of the State, like that of adminis-

MOONEY v. HOLOHAN.
103

Opinion of the Court.

trative officers in the execution of its laws, may constitute state action within the purview of the Fourteenth
Amendment. That Amendment goveins any action of

a State, "whether through its legislature, through its
courts, or through its executive or administrative officers."
Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, 447; Rogers v. Alabama,
192 U. S. 226, 231; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. Co.
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 233, 234.
Reasoning from the premise that the petitioner has
failed to show a denial of due process in the circumstances
set forth in his petition, the Attorney General urges that
the State was not reqhired to afford any cor:ective judicial
process to remedy the alleged wrong. The argument falls
with the premise. Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 335;
Moore v. Dempsey, 261 U. S. 86, 90, 91.
We are not satisfied, however, that the State of California has failed to provide such corrective judicial process. The prerogative writ of habeas corpus is available
in that State. Constitution of California, Art. I, § 5;
Art. VI, § 4. No decision of the Supreme Court of California has been brought to our attention holding that
the state court is without power to issue this historic
remedial process when it appears that one is deprived
of his liberty without due process of law in violation of
the Constitution of the United States. Upon the state
courts, equally with the courts of the Union, rests the
obligation to guard and enforce every right secured by
that Constitution. Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, 637.
In view of the dominant requirement of the Fourteenth
Amendment, we are not at liberty to assume that the
State has denied to its court jurisdiction to redress the
prohibited wrong upon a proper showing and in an anpropriate proceeding for that purpose.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of California in relation to petitioner's conviction have dealt with the ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S

tions presented to that Court within the limitations of
particular appellate procedure. When there was submitted to that Court the consent of the Attorney General to
the reversal of the judgment against petitioner and to the
granting of a new trial, the Court pointed out that no motion
had been made by the defendant and that his appeal was
awaiting hearing. People v. Mooney, 175 Cal. 666; 166
Pac. 999. When, again in advance of the hearing of his
appeal, the defendant made his motion solely upon the
ground of the Attorney General's consent, the Court held
that its jurisdiction on appeal was limited to a determination whether there had been any error of law in the proceedings of the trial court and that the Court was confined to the record sent to it by the court below. People v.
Mooney, 176 Cal. 105; 167 Pac. 696. On the appeal, the
Court thus dealing with the record before it, found that
the verdict was supported by the testimony presented and
that no ground appeared for reversal. People v. Mooney,
177 Cal. 642; 171 Pac. 690. When, later, the defendant
moved to set aside the judgment, and sought a certificate
of probable cause on his appeal from an order denying
his motion, the Court held that the general averments
against the fairness of the trial were insufficient, but the
Court did not place its denial of the application entirely
upon that ground. The Court concluded that the proceeding by way of motion to set aside the judgment after
it had become final and a motion for a new trial had been
denied, and the time therefor had expired, was " in the
nature of an application for a writ of coram nobis, at common law." The Court thought that such a writ did not
lie to correct any error in the judgment of the Court nor
to contradict or put in issue any fact directly passed upon
and affirmed by the judgment itself. The Court, adopting
the opinion of the court below, concluded that the judgment could not be set aside because it was predicated upon

MOONEY v. HOLOHAN.
103

Opinion of the Court.

perjured testimony or because material evidence was concealed or suppressed; that the fraud in such a case was
not such fraud as was "extrinsic to the record" and that
it was only in cases of extrinsic fraud that the relief sought
could -be had. It was apparently in relation to such an
application that the Court said that the injured party
was "without remedy." People v. Mooney, 178 Cal. 525;
174 Pac. 325. And it was with respect.to that proceeding,
that the writ of certiorari was denied by this Court.
Mooney v. California, 248 U. S. 579. The -subsequent
communications from the Justices of the Supreme Court
in connection with applications for executive clemency
were of an advisory character and were not judicial judgments under the requirements of the Constitution of the
United States.
We do not find that petitioner has applied to the state
court for a writ of habeas-corpus upon the grounds stated
in his petition here. That corrective judicial process has
not been invoked and it is not shown to be unavailable.
Despite the many proceedings taken on behalf of the
petitioner, an application for the prerogative writ now asserted to be peculiarly suited to the circumstances disclosed by his petition has not been made to the state court.
Orderly procedure, governed by principles we have repeatedly announced, requires that before this Court is
asked to issue a writ of habeas corpus, in the case of a person held under a state commitment, recourse should be
had to whatever judicial remedy afforded by the State
may still remain open. Davis v. Burke, 179 U. S. 399,
402; Urquhart v. Brown, 205 U. S. 179, 181, 182; U. S.
ex rel. Kennedy v. Tyler, 269 U. S. 13, 17. See, also,
Bryant v. Zimmerman, 278 U. S. 63, 70.
Accordingly, leave to file the petition is denied, but
without prejudice.
Leave denied.

