DETROIT BRIDGE CO. v. TAX BOARD.

83

Counsel for Parties.

79

creasing revenues enhance the ultimate return. Upon
the record as it comes to us, this is guesswork, and no
more. There'has been no attempt to measure the possible enhancement by appeal to the experience of other
companies similarly situated or by any other line of proof.
Present confiscation is not atoned for by merely holding
out the hope of a better life to come.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
DETROIT INTERNATIONAL BRIDGE CO, v.
CORPORATION TAX APPEAL BOARD OF
MICHIGAN'
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 272.

Argued December 14, 1934.-Decided January 14, 1935.

By owning and operating a toll bridge over which pedestrians and
vehicles pass between this country and Canada, a corporation does
not itself engage in foreign commerce, and therefore a state tax on
its privilege to be a corporation and exercise its functions, measured upon paid up capital and surplus, is not inconsistent with the
commerce clause of the Constitution. Hendersbn Bridge Co. v.
Kentucky, 166 U. S. 150. P. 86.
267 Mich. 384; 255 N. W, 368, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining an order of the Corporation Tax Appeal Board, which in turn sustained the
action of the Secretary of State of Michigan, in laying a
privilege tax on the appellant corporation.

Mr. Victor W. Klein, with whom Messrs. Alfred A. Cook
and Thomas G. Long were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Patrick H. O'Brien, Attorney General of Michigan,
and Mrs. Alice E. Alexander for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.

84

Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

294 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellant, incorporated under the laws of Michigan,
owns and operates an international highway bridge across
the Detroit River. That State demanded that it pay, for
1933, the tax laid by the Act of 1921 as amended, (85
Public Acts 1921, 175 Public Acts 1929) which requires
that "every corporation organized or doing business under
the laws of this state . . . shall . . . for the privilege of
exercising its franchise and of transacting its business
within this state, pay . . . an annual fee . . . upon each
dollar of its paid up capital and surplus . . ."; but no
property or capital located without the state "and none
of the capital or surplus of such corporation represented
by property exclusively used in interstate commerce, shall
in any case enter into the computation . . ."
The Supreme Court of the State sustained the tax. A
reversal is sought upon two grounds.
That" the only power it [the corporation] has is to engage exclusively in foreign commerce "; to tax the privilege of doing this would burden such commerce and offend the Federal Constitution.
Also, that if the corporation is subject to the challenged
tax, the statute requires the capital represented by the
bridge structure to be excluded from the computation
since this is used exclusively in foreign commerce.
The imposition has been characterized by the court
below as "a privilege tax imposed as an incident to the
right to be a corporation, and exercise corporate functions
by means of paid-up capital and surplus." In re Detroit &
Windsor Ferry Co., 232 Mich. 574; 205 N. W. 102;,In re
Detroit InternationalBridge Co., 257 Mich. 52; 240 N. W.
68; Michigan v. Michigan Trust Co., 286 U. S. 334; AngloChilean Nitrate Sales Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U. S. 218.
It held the provision of the statute excluding from the
computation all property used exclusively in interstate

DETROIT BRIDGE CO. v. TAX BOARD.
83

85

Opinion of the Court.

commerce [and foreign commerce] inapplicable, since the
coimpany "is not engaged in foreign commerce and its
property is not so used by it."
In Detroit InternationalBridge Co. v. Corporation
/ax
Appeal Board, 287 U. S. 295, we considered appellant's
claim to exemption from the demand for 1930, under the
same statute. It there appeared that in addition to general power to own and operate the bridge, and do whatever is related to that enterprise, the corporation had authority to carry on other business in Michigan and elsewhere. "It has failed to establish that it has no power
to carry on any business that is not within the protection
of the commerce clause." Consequently we did not consider whether it was engaging in foreign commerce, but
affirmed the judgment below upholding the tax.
Subsequently to our decision, and prior to the tax year
1933, the corporate charter was amended. The powers
were limited and stated thus"To operate the highway bridge, known as the Ambassador Bridge, across the Detroit River, from Detroit,
Michigan, to Sandwich, Province of Ontario, Canada, and
the approaches and the appurtenances thereto, and to own
all or part of said bridge and approaches and appurtenances thereto.
"To maintain and operate said bridge and approaches
and appurtenances thereto for the use of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, and to charge and collect tolls for such
use."
The record discloses that the appellant owns, maintains
and operates a bridge between Michigan and Canada
across the Detroit River; that for passing over this it
demands and collects tolls from vehicles and pedestrians.
It "conveys no persons or goods across the international
boundary line. It merely collects tolls from such persons
as use it [the bridge]. It provides an instrumentality
which others may use in conducting foreign commerce."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Unless by reason of what appellant is now shown to
do, it engages in foreign commerce, then, considering our
ruling upon the appeal challenging the tax for 1930-287
U. S. 295--clearly, the judgment below must be affirmed.
The argument fcr reversal is, of course, ineffective if
ownership and operation of the bridge do not constitute.
foreign commerce.
After much consideration, and notwithstanding emphatic dissent, Henderson Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 166
U. S. 150, held that a Kentucky Corporation which owned
and operated a bridge over the Ohio River between that
State and Indiana, and collected compensation from railroads using the structure, was not engaged in interstate
commerce. By Chief Justice Fuller this Court said (p.
153):
"The company was chartered by the State of Kentucky to build and operate a bridge, and the State could
properly include the franchises it had granted in the valuation of the company's property for taxation. Central
Pacific Railroad v. California, 162 U. S. 91. The regulation of tolls for transportation over the bridge considered in Covington & Cincinnati Bridge Co. v. Kentucky,
154 U. S. 204, presented an entirely different question.
" Clearly the tax was not a tax on the interstate business carried on over or by means of the bridge, because
the bridge company did not transact such business. That
business was carried on by the persons and corporations
which paid the bridge company tolls for the privilege of
using the bridge."
We find no adequate reason for departing from the view
so expressed. The judgment of the court below must be
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE STONE

in the result.

and MR. JUSTICE CARDozo concur

