U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO. 499
494

Syllabus.

consideration, and cannot estop the respondent to claim
damages measured according to the general rule. The contract plainly requires that if, after deduction of all loss and
damage, the remaining cargo, in its then condition, is worth
more at destination than the whole cargo at place and
time of shipment, the carrier shall be wholly exonerated.
As pointed out by the court below, if there were a short
delivery of fifty cases out of a shipment of one hundred
cases, but the market value of the goods delivered at the
port of destination were equal to the invoice value of the
hundred cases, plus freight, the carrier would pay nothing
for negligent loss of half the shipment. Such an agreement is against public policy, as its effect is to relieve the
carrier from the consequences of its negligence. 8
The judgment is

Affirmed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. V. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE,
ST. PAUL & PACIFIC R. CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 379.

Argued February 6, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission disapproving
reduced rates proposed by a carrier is void unless supported by
findings of the basic or quasi-jurisdictional facts conditioning the
power of the Commission. P. 504.
2. Such findings should be precise and clear. P. 511.
3. There is a zone of reasonableness between rates that are excessively high and rates that are less than eompensatory, within which
a carrier is ordinarily free to adjust its charges for itself. P. 506.
4. A rate-schedule initiated by a carrier must be upheld as lawful
unless adequate reasons are presented for setting it aside. P. 510.
5. The Commission may not prevent a carrier from reducing its
rates to meet competition, merely upon the ground that the reducCompare Pearsev. Quebec S. S. Co., 24 Fed. 285, 287, 288.

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

tion would disturb the prevailing rate structure, groupings and
differentials and possibly lead to a "rate war" between carriers.
Pp. 507, 509.
8 F. Supp. 970, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges, which enjoined the enforcement of an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission annulling reductions proposed by the Milwaukee Railroad of some of its
rates on coal.
Assistant Attorney General Stephens, with whom
Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. Carl McFarland,
Elmer B. Collins, Daniel W. Knowlton and Edward M.
Reidy were on the brief, for the United States and Interstate Commerce Commission, appellants.
Mr. John T. Quisenberry, with whom Messrs. Walter
McFarland, H. H. Larimore, Frank H. Towner, and
Elmer A. Smith were on the brief, for the Railroad Companies, appellants.
Mr. C. L. Taylor, with whom Messrs. 0. W. Dynes and
M. L. Bluhm were on the brief, for the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific R. Co., appellee.
Mr. Earl B. Wilkinson, with whom Messrs. Michael F.
Gallagher and Samuel M. Rinaker were on the brief, for
the Binkley Mining Ce. et al., appellees.
MR. JusTIC,
Court.

CmDozo delivered the opinion of the

On November 22, 1932, the Chicago, Milwaukee, St.
Paul & Pacific Railroad Company (referred to in this
opinion as the Milwaukee) filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission a schedule of rates for the transportation of bituminous coal from mines in Indiana to destinations in northern Illinois. Upon complaint by competing

U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO. 501
499

Opinion of the Court.

railroads and producers in Illinois, the Interstate Commerce Commission suspended the proposed tariffs and afterwards annulled them. 197 I. C. C. 245; 200 I. C. C.
609. A District Court of three judges has perpetually
enjoined the enforcement of the order of the Commission,
thereby reinstating the tariffs established by the carrier.
8 F. Supp. 970. The case is here upon appeal. Judicial
Code, §210; 28 U. S. C. § 47a.
The rates in controversy affect the transportation of
coal from groups of mines in Indiana known as the BrazilClinton and the Linton-Sullivan origin groups to Rockford and Freeport, Illinois, and certain intermediate
points. Up to the effective date of the new schedule the
rate to Rockford and Freeport from the Brazil-Clinton
group had been $1.87 per ton, and from the Linton-Sullivan group $1.92. The proposed change called for a reduction of 17 cents, with the result that the rates between
the points mentioned became $1.70 and $1.75 respectively.
Reductions ranging from 4 to 10 cents were proposed for
other destinations nearer to the point of origin.
In its transportation of bituminous coal the Milwaukee
is in competition with lines in Illinois, Indiana and Western Kentucky. We direct our attention first to the situation in Illinois, confining ourselves to facts that have been
found by the Commission. For many years there was a
parity of rates between the Springfield group in Illinois
and the Brazil-Clinton group in Indiana. There was
also a customary differential for Illinois groups farther
south than Springfield as well as for other groups in Western Kentucky. For example, the rate from Springfield to
Rockford was 30 cents less than, from mines in southern
Illinois. On August 20, 1930, these relations were broken
by an order of the Illinois Commerce Commission reducing intrastate rates in Illinois 17 cents.a ton. Rates from
Springfield to Rockford which had been $1.87 became
$1.70; those from southern Illinois, previously $2.17, be-

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

came $2. Upon the publication of these reductions, Milwaukee complained of them to the Interstate Commerce
Commission and asked that they be canceled. 49 U. S. C.
§ 13. It insisted that the lower schedule would result in
undue and unreasonable advantage to persons and localities in intrastate commerce and in undue and unreasonable discrimination against those in interstate commerce.
The Commission rendered its decision in March, 1932. It
allowed the contested rates to stand in so far as the points
of destination were Rockford and Freeport, though it
found discrimination, and ordered an increase of five cents
a ton, upon shipments to Chicago. Intrastate Rates on
Bituminous Coal in Illinois, 182 I. C. C. 537. In respect
of the Rockford-Freeport traffic, it held that the intrastate
rates might reasonably be higher, but that the like was
true of the rates to the same points from the groups in
Indiana. 182 I. C. C. 537, at pp. 549, 550. "The principal
competition of the Illinois producers at these destinations
comes from Indiana, and we find no sufficient justification
for requiring any of the Illinois rates to these points to be
increased until the low rates from Indiana referred to have
been placed upon a level more nearly commensurate with
the general level of rates in this territory." In brief the
ruling was that the Interstate Commerce Commission
would keep its hands off until the rates of interstate competitors had been placed upon a sounder basis. It would
not stabilize rates at the then prevailing levels when the
rate structure as a whole was in need of readjustment and
revision. A refusal to interfere With one of the terms of a
proportion is very different from an approval of the proportion as a continuing condition. Restraints were not
imposed upon the lines in Illinois, but equally they were
not imposed upon those in Indiana. The decision was
not a mandate to the.carriers to preserve undisturbed an
existing relation between rates: the decision was a refusal
by the Commission to compel an increase of the rates on

U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO, 503
499

Opinion of the Court.

one side of the relation. Those on the other side were
subject to change at the instance of the. carriers affected
to the same extent as they had been before. The forces of
competition were left to do their work.
From the situation in Illinois we turn to that in Indiana
and Kentucky. Again we confine ourselves to the report
unless testimony is mentioned. Six carriers in addition
to Milwaukee are in competition for the carriage of coal
from groups in Indiana to points in northern Illinois.
These lines are the means of transportation for the product of the coal mines at Princeton and Booneville. They
compete also to a slight extent for the carriage of coal from
the Brazil and Linton groups, though the testimony is
that their traffic from those points is only 1% or less, as
compared with 99% belonging to Milwaukee. For all
these Indiana routes, group rates have been maintained for
many years as the outcome of agreement among the carriers concerned. Rates from Linton-Sullivan were five
cents higher than from Brazil-Clinton, those from Princeton seven cents higher than from Linton-Sullivan, and
those from Booneville ten cents higher than from Princeton. If Milwaukee is upheld in the reduction of its own
schedule from Brazil and Linton northward, there is likely
to be an attempt by other Indiana carriers to make proportionate reductions from points along their lines.
The change of rates in Illinois had repercussions also
upon tariffs in Kentucky. As far back as 1927, the Commission fixed a differential of 35 cents in favor of the
roads from the western Kentucky mines as compared with
those from the mines in southern Illinois. Illinois-Indiana
Coal Cases, 128 I. C. C. 265; West Kentucky Coal Bureau
v. Illinois Central R. Co., 172 I. C. C. 279. Upon the
lowering of intrastate rates for Illinois carriers, the western
Kentucky carriers restored the preexisting .relation between themselves and their Illinois competitors by reducing their own rates to the extent of the established differ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

ential. The Commission made an order approving the
reduction.
With these changes in the rates in Illinois and Kentucky
there remained only the rates from the groups in Indiana
that were out of line with the proportion maintained for
many years. To restore that proportion Milwaukee filed
a new schedule whereby the rates from Brazil-Clinton
to Rockford and Freeport, were again placed at a parity
with those from Springfield to the same places, the rates
from Linton-Sullivan being correspondingly adjusted.
This is the schedule that has been disapproved by the
Commission. Two reports were filed, one in November,
1933, the other in April, 1934. The first, which came
from a division of the Commission, was confirmed by
the entire body upon denying a petition for rehearing.
Suit for an injunction was promptly started by the carrier.
Two days before the day appointed for the hearing, the
Commission of its own motion reopened the proceeding,
and thereafter filed a second report, amplifying the first
one. Following that report the suit was brought to trial
upon supplemental pleadings. The carrier took the position: (1) that the order of the Commission was not
supported by the findings; and (2) that irrespective of
the findings it was not supported by the evidence. The
District Court gave a decree for the complainant upon
the second ground without passing upon the first. Upon
appeal to this court by the Commission and by intervening railroads, the appellees (the Milwaukee. and intervening coal producers) renew the grounds of challenge
put forward at the trial.
This court has held that an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission is void unless supported by findings

of the basic or quasi-jurisdictional facts conditioning its
power. Florida v. United States, 282 U. S. 194, 215;
United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R.. Co., 293 U. S. 454.

U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO. 505
499

Opinion of the Court.

"In the absence of such findings, we are not called upon
to examine the evidence in order to resolve opposing contentions as to what it shows or to spell out and state such
conclusions of fact as it may permit." Floridav. United
States, supra. Orderly review requires that this objection,
being basic and jurisdictional, be disposed of at the
beginning.
The jurisdiction of the Commission to cancel the proposed schedule was invoked by the protesting carriers and
producers under two sections of the statute, subdivisions 1 and 7 of § 15 and subdivision 2 of § 15a. Section
15 (subdivisions 1 and 7) is to the effect that the Commission shall have power to determine the just and reasonable
rate when a rate in force or proposed is found to be unjust
or unreasonable or unduly discriminatory or otherwise unlawful. Section 15a.is to the effect that in the exercise of
this power to establish just and reasonable rates the Commission shall give due consideration, among other factors,
" to the need, in the public interest, of adequate and efficient railway transportation service at the lowest cost consistent with the furnishing of such service; and to the need
of revenue sufficient to enable the carriers, under honest,
ecdnomical, and efficient management, to provide such
service."
The second report ot the Commission is a long and discursive narrative. Two paragraphs at the end give the key
to its meaning [200 I. C. C. 621, 622]:"We find that the proposed rates if permitted to become
effective would lead to a disruption of the rate structure
on coal in the Indiana and related areas, thus impairing
the revenue of the carriers serving those areas and their
ability to provide the adequate and efficient transportation service contemplated by section 15a of the act; that
they would cause a disruption of the individual groups
from which the rates are proposed; and that they would

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

cause a disruption of the long-standing rate relation existing for competitive purposes, between the several Indiana
groups.
"We find that the proposed rates would be unreasonable
and in violation of sections 1 (5) [which denounces unreasonable charges] and 15a (2) of the act [which has been
summarized above]."
The statement in the second of these paragraphs that
the proposed rates would be" unreasonable" must be read
in the light of the report as a whole, and then appears as a
conclusion insufficient as a finding unless supported by
facts more particularly stated. Cf. Florida v. United
States, supra, at p. 213; Southern Pacific Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Comm'n, 219 U. S. 433, 449. There is no suggestion in the report that the rates have been so reduced
as to be less than compensatory. True they do not reach
the maxima beyond which charges are excessive. On the
other hand, they do not pass the minima beyond which
charges are too low. A zone of reasonableness exists between maxima and minima within which a carrier is ordinarily free to adjust its charges for itself. Texas &
PacificRy. Co. v. UnitedStates, 289 U. S. 627, 636; United
States v. Illinois Central R. Co., 263 U. S. 515, 522. We
lay to one side cases of discrimination or preference or
rivalry so keen as to be a menace to the steady and efficient
service called for by the statute. Interstate Commerce
Act, § 15 a. Those tendencies excluded, "a carrier is entitled to initiate rates and, in this connection, to adopt
such policy of rate making as to it seems best." United
States v. Illinois Central R. Co.; supra.
Subjected to these tests, the finding by the Commission
that the new rates are unreasonable is seen to-be nothing
more than a deduction from the paragraph immediately
preceding, wherein we learn that the schedule, if put into
effect, will disrupt the rate structure in Indiana and re-

U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO. 507
499

Opinion of the Court.

lated areas and disturb groupings and differentials maintained for many years. This brings us to the question
whether such disruption and disturbance may be deemed
a sufficient reason for taking from a carrier the privilege
of reaching out for a larger share of the business of transportation and initiating its own schedule to help it in the
struggle. For an answer to that question, other facts,
exhibited with greater particularity in other parts of the
report, must be brought forward and considered. Those
affecting the Indiana groups may conveniently be stated
first; those affecting groups in Illinois afterwards.
Every change of a rate schedule, either voluntary or
involuntary, is a disruption pro tanto of the rate structure
theretofore prevailing. Plainly such a disruption without
more is no sufficient reason for prohibiting a change. The
Indiana carriers by long continued co6peration have maintained a fixed schedule of differentials between mines in
the southern group (Princeton and Booneville) and mines
farther to the north. There is not a fact stated in the report to indicate that it will be unjust or impracticable
to apply the new Milwaukee rates to the other lines in
Indiana after increasing them by the differentials hitherto
prevailing. There is not a fact to indicate that the rates
so reduced will be less than compensatory or that capacity
for service to the public will be impaired or put in jeopardy. "The raising of rates does not necessarily increase
revenue. It may in particular localities reduce revenue
instead of increasing it, by discouraging patronage." Florida v. United States, supra, at p. 214. As applied to the
Indiana groups, the broad conclusions of the report, when
related to the supporting findings, amount to this and
nothing more, that the new schedule for Milwaukee is
likely to be followed by new schedules maintaining the
same ratio for other lines in Indiana. Even if the outcome
for those lines is a diminution of the profits (the return
being none the less compensatory), this without more

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

does not make it wrongful for Milwaukee to restore the
long standing parity between Brazil and Springfield. At
the very least the findings should inform us, if only approximately, of the extent of the expected loss; they
should make it clear whether the impairment of revenues
will be trivial or substantial, for only thus can the impairment be related to capacity for service. Cf. Florida v.
United States, 292 U. S. 1, 9. Nothing of the kind is
shown. The schedules are to be congealed as they exist,
because if not congealed they will be fluid, fluidity is
change, and change has the potency, if not the promise, of
disturbance. As to conditions in Indiana, this and hardly
more is the teaching of the report.
We pass to the relation between the Indiana groups and
those in Illinois. As we have seen, parity of rates had
been maintained for many years between Indiana lines
transporting coal from Brazil-Clinton to northern Illinois
and Illinois lines transporting coal from Springfield.
There was no complaint by the Commission during those
years that the relation was unfair. There was no holding
to that effect when orders of the state commission prescribing lower rates in Illinois were kept in operation
against the protest of Milwaukee. Intrastate Rates on
Bituminous Coal between Points in Illinois, supra. The
significance of that decision has been considered already
in the course of this opinion. As we have striven to make
clear, the Commission did not rule that the effect of the
new rates was to establish a fair relation, still less the only
fair one, between Illinois and Indiana, a relation to be
maintained as something fixed and constant. The findings then made are repeated by quotation in the report in
this proceeding without comment or explanation that
would give them another meaning. If the schedule in
controversy is to be rejected as oppressive or unreasonable,
the grounds for the rejection must be looked for somewhere
else than in the earlier decision.

U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO. 509
499

Opinion of the Court.

We are warned by the new report, however, that a
change once permitted has a tendency to spread. The
acceptance of the new schedule for Milwaukee will lead,
it is said, to requests for proportionate reductions by other
lines in Indiana, and this in turn to new reductions by
lines in Illinois and even in Kentucky, the outcome being
characterized in the argument of counsel, though not in
the report, as a rate war between the roads. The threat
of such a war may be a reason for rejecting a new schedule
if the rate relation previously existing is a fair one, or
even, we may assume, if the Commission is without power
to avert the reprisals and thereby nullify the threat.
Neither of these conditions is satisfied in this case. The
Commission does not hold that the existing rate relation
is intrinsically sound and fair. On the contrary, it expressly concedes that the rate situation as between the
Illinois and Indiana groups may be in need of correction,
though it expresses the belief that this should not be done
in any piecemeal fashion.* The point of the decision is
not that present rates are sound, but that they must be
maintained, even if unsound, for fear of a rate war which
might spread beyond control. The danger is illusory.
The whole situation is subject to the power of the Commission, which may keep the changes within bounds. If
Illinois lines attempt to lower their rates again, a proceeding will be available to maintain a fair relation. If the
lineg in Kentucky, operating in interstate commerce, apply
for new reductions, the supervisory power of the Commission will subject them to the rule of reason. But other
remedies even more plainly adequate are at hand in case
of need. Under § 15 of the statute the Commission of
its own motion may conduct a comprehensive inquiry into
the rates of all the lines within the area of controversy,
may fix the fair relation between one line and another,
See the last two paragraphs of the first report by Division No.
2, which the second report has readopted and confirmed.

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

and may build the structure of the rates accordingly.
Florida v. United States, 292 U. S. 1; United States v.
Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70.
In the light of these considerations it is not the Milwaukee that is subject to the reproach of dealing with the
matter piecemeal. All that the Milwaukee has done is to
initiate a schedule which must be upheld as lawful unless
adequate reasons are presented for setting it aside. Cf.
Anchor Coal Co. v. United States, 25 F. (2d) 462; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S. 768, 773.
The reproach of piecemeal action is incurred by the Commission, which has not adjudged the fairness of the relation
now subsisting between Illinois and Indiana rates, which
has not questioned its own capacity to prevent unjust
reprisals, which has put off to an indefinite future the
remodeling of the rate structure for all the carriers affected, and which has left this particular carrier helpless in
the interval. In brief, a schedule of lowered tariffs has been
canceled though the facts that control the validity of the
reduction have yet to be determined. This was not a full
discharge by the Commission of an immediate responsibility. It was inaction and postponement. Responsibility
was shifted from the shoulders of the present to the shoulders of the days to come.
. We would not be understood as saying that there do not
lurk in this report phrases or sentences suggestive of a different meaning. One gains at places the impression that
the Commission looked upon the proposed reduction as
something more than a disruptive tendency; that it found
unfairness in the old relation of parity between Brazil and
Springfield; and that the new schedule in its judgment
would confirm Milwaukee in the enjoyment of an undue
proportion of the traffic. The difficulty is that it has not
said so with the simplibity and clearness through which a
halting impression ripens into reasonable certitude. In the
end we are left to spell out, to argue, to choose between

BALDWIN v. G. A. F. SEELIG.
Statement of the Case.

499

conflicting inferences. Something more precise is requisite
in the -quasi-jurisdictional findings of an administrative
agency. Beaumont, S. L. & W. Ry. Co. v. United States,
282 U. S. 74, 86; Floridav. United States, 282 U. S. 194,
215. We must know what a decision means before the duty
becomes ours to say whether it is right or wrong.
The decree should be affirmed, and it is so ordered.
Affirmed.
BALDWIN, COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE &
MARKETS, ET AI. v. G. A. F. SEELIG, INC.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATE&
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 604.

Argued February 11, 12, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. A law or regulation of a State which prohibits the sale of milk
imported from another State unless the price paid in that other
to the producer was up to the minimum prescribed by the first
State for purchases from local producers, is a direct and unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce, whether applied to milk
sold by the importer in the cans in which it was imported, or to
milk sold by him in bottles in which it was put after importation.
Pp. 521, 526.
2. Such a regulation can not be sustained as an exercise of police
power upon the ground that economic security of the dairyman
works for the sanitary security of the community by insuring both
an adequate supply and a wholesome quality of a necessary food.
P. 522.
District Court reversed in part; affirmed in part.
CROSS-APPEALS

to review'a decree of the District Court,

of three judges, in a suit brought by Seelig, Inc., a milk
dealer, to restrain Baldwin and other state officials from
prosecuting it for selling without a license in New York
* Together with N6 . 605, G. A. F. Seelig, Inc. v. Baldwin, Commissioner of Agriculture & Markets, et al. Appeal from the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.

