DOUGLAS v. CUNNINGHAM.

207

Opinion of the Court.

DOUGLAS ET

AL.

v. CUNNINGHAM

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 519.

Argued January 18, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.

1. Section 25 of the Copyright Act provides that an infringer shall
be liable for "such damages as the copyright owner may have
suffered due to the infringement," or "in lieu of actual damages
...such damages as to the court shall appear to be just," and
that in assessing such damages the court may, in its discretion,
allow, in the case of a newspaper, one dollar for every infringing
copy; but that in any event, the damages shall not exceed $5,000
nor be less than $250, except for infringements occurring after
actual notice to the defendant. Held, in a suit based upon the
publication of an infringing article in an edition of a newspaper
which totaled 384,000 copies, an award of $5,000 in lieu of actual
damages was within the discretion of the trial court and was not
subject to revision by the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 210.
2. This construction is required by the language and the purpose of
the statute. P. 210.
72 F. (2d) 536, reversed.
CERTioRARI, 293 U. S. 551, to review a judgment reversing, as to the amount of damages and costs, a judgment
of the District Court in a suit for infringement of copyright.

Mr. Cedric W. Porter,with whom Mr. George P. Dike
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Edmund A. Whitman for respondents.
MR.

JUsTICm

ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioners brought a suit in equity against the
respondents in the District Court for Massachusetts,

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

charging infringement of copyright, praying an injunction,. an accounting and award of profits, and damages,
or "in lieu of actual damages or profits such damages
as to this court shall appear to be just and proper within
the provisions of the Act of Congress in such cases made
and provided." The respondents answered and the cause
came on for hearing. Admissions in the pleadings, concessions by the respondents, and evidence taken, disclose
the relevant facts.
Douglas wrote an original story which was accepted,
copyrighted and published by The American Mercury,
Inc.. The rights in the story under the copyright were
assigned to Douglas. Thereafter Cunningham wrote for
the Post Publishing Company, and the latter published in
some 384,000 copies of a Sunday edition of the Boston
Post, an article which was a clear appropriation of Douglas's story. Testimony was presented with respect to
the value of the story, but at the close of the trial the
petitioners admitted inability to prove actual damages.
The Publishing Company acted innocently in accepting
the article from Cunningham, and the latter testified- that
he had procured the material for it from an acquaintance,
believed the facts related to him were actual happenings,
and was ignorant of Douglas's production. The trial
judge ruled that no actual damage had been shown, but
in lieu thereof granted the petitioners $5,000 and a counsel
fee. Upon appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals sustained
an assignment of error which asserted the judge had
abused his discretion in making the award, reversed the
decree, and set the damages at $250.
The sole question presented by the petition for certiorari is whether consistently with § 25 (b) of the
Act of 1909,1 an appellate court may review the action of
'Act of March 4, !909, c. 320, § 25, 35 Stat. 1081, as amended by
Act of August 24, 1912, c. 356, 37 Stat. 489; U. S. C. Tit. 17, § 25.
"If any person shall infringe the copyright in any work protected

DOUGLAS v. CUNNINGHAM.
207

Opinion of the Court.

a trial judge in assessing an amount in lieu of actual
damages, where the amount awarded is within the limits
imposed by the section. We granted the writ of certiorari ' because the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals was upon an important question of federal law and
probably in conflict with our decisions.'
The phraseology of the section was adopted to avoid
the strictness of construction incident to a law imposing
penalties, and to give the owner of a copyright some
recompense for injury done him, in a case where the rules
of law render difficult or impossible proof of damages or
discovery of profits. In this respect the old law was
unsatisfactory. In many cases plaintiffs, though proving
infringement, were able to recover only nominal damages,
in spite of the fact that preparation and trial of the case
imposed substantial expense and inconvenience. The ineffectiveness of the remedy encouraged wilful and deliberate infringement.
under the copyright laws of the United States such person shall be
liable:
"(b) To pay to the copyright proprietor such damages as the copyright proprietor may have suffered due to the infringement, as well as
all the profits which the infringer shall have made from such infringement, . . .or in lieu of actual damages and profits such damages as
to the court shall appear to be just, and in assessing such damages
the court may, in its discretion, allow the amounts as hereinafter
stated [here follow limitations with respect to the amount of damages
to be awarded for certain infringements not material in the present
case] and such damages shall in no other case exceed the sum of
$5,000 nor be less than the sum of $250, and shall not be regarded as
a penalty ......
There follows a schedule of which item "Second" is: "In the case
of any work enumerated in section 5 of this title [§ 5 includes periodicals and newspapers] except.a painting, statue or sculpture, $1 for
every infringing copy made or sold by or found in the possession of
the infringer or his agents or employees."
2293 U. S. 551.
'See Rule 38, par. 5 (b) (c).

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

This court has twice construed § 25 (b) in the light of
its history and purpose. Westermann Co. v. Dispatch
PrintingCo., 249 U. S. 100; Jewell-LaSalle Realty Co. v.
Buck, 283 U. S. 202. As shown by those decisions, the
purpose of the act is not doubtful. The trial judge may
allow such damages as he deems to be just and may, in
the case of an infringement such as is here shown, in his
discretion, use as the measure of damages one dollar for
each copy,-Congress declaring, however, that just damages, even for the circulation of a single copy, cannot be
less than $250, and no matter how many copies are made,
cannot be more than $5000. In the Westermann and
LaSalle cases it was held that not less than $250 could be
awarded for a single publication or performance. It follows that such an award, in the contemplation of the
statute, is just. The question now presented is whether
it can be unjust, according to the legislative standard, to
use the prescribed measure,-$1 per copy,-up to the
maximum permitted by the section. As the Westermann
case shows, the law commits to the trier of facts, within
the named limits, discretion to apply the measure furnished by the statute provided he awards no more than
$5,000. He need not award $1 for each copy, but, if upon
consideration of the circumstances he determines that he
should do so, his action can not be said to be unjust. In
other words, the employment of the statutory yardstick,
within set limits, is committed solely to the court which
hears the case, and this fact takes the matter out of the
ordinary rule with respect to abuse of-discretion. This
construction is required by the language and the purpose
of the statute. The judgment is reversed and the cause
remanded to the District Court for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

