OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

.294 U. S.

THE ANSALDO SAN GIORGIO I v. RHEINSTROM
BROTHERS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 521.

Argued February 13, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. As a general rule, the measure of damages recoverable from a
common carrier for the loss of or damage to the goods is the value
of the goods at destination, in the condition they were in when
shipped, less the actual arrived value. P. 496.
2. A clause in a bill of lading providing that claims for loss or
damage "shall be adjusted on the basis of the invoice value of the
entire shipment," thereby relieving the carrier of liability,
irrespective of its negligence, where the market value of the shipment at destination, after deduction of loss and damage, was
more than the invoice value of the whole shipment, is contrary to
public policy and void. P. 498.
3. The agreement can not. be sustained even though supported by a
valid consideration; and can not estop the shipper from claiming
damages measured according to the general rule. Id.
73 F. (2d) 40, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 551, to review a judgment reversing a judgment of the District Court upon a libel to recover for damages to cargo.

Mr. Homer L. Loomis, with whom Mr. Reginald B.
Williams was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. D. Roger Englar, with whom Messrs. Henry N.
Longley and F. Herbert Prem were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Three shipments totalling 4266 barrels of cherries in
brine were loaded at Italian ports upon the S. S. Ansaldo
San Giorgio I, consignfd to the respondent at ports in the

SAN GIORGIO I v. RHEINSTROM CG.
494

495

Opinion of the Court.

United States. The cargo arrived in bad condition, due
to improper stowage, and the respondent filed a libel to
recover damages. Trial in the District Court resulted in
an interlocutory decree for the respondent.1 The cause
was referred to a commissioner, who found that the containers and the cherries were in good condition when
shipped, 162 barrels had become a total loss, and there
was additional damage equivalent to a loss of 419 barrels.
He computed the damages on the basis of the market
value of the goods at destination on the date of arrival.
The petitioner resisted any award, relying on the following clause in the bills of lading: "In the event of claims
'for loss, damage or short delivery the same shall be adjusted on the basis of the invoice value of the entire shipment adding expenses necessarily incurred." The proof
was that, owing to favorable market conditions existing
at destination, the market value of all the merchandise
which remained', sound as well as damaged, exceeded the
values stated in the invoices, plus freight. The commissioner held the quoted clause an invalid stipulation
exempting the carrier from liability for negligence, as
there was no showing that the shipper had been offered
a choice of rates adjusted according to the value placed
upon the goods. Upon exceptions, the district court accepted the commissioner's findings, but held the clause a
reasonable and lawful agreement for measuring damages,
and denied the respondent any recovery.2 The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed the decree and affirmed the
computation of damages submitted by the commissioner.'
Though no conflict of decision in the federal appellate
courts is cited, and the novelty of the question presented
1928 A. M. C. 109. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
decree, 26 F. (2d) 1016, and this court denied certiorari, 278 U. S.
633.
'3 F. Supp. 579.
373 F. (2d) 40.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

would not, in the absence of general importance, move us
to grant certiorari, we issued the writ "because the decision
below is alleged to conflict with principles established by
our decisions.'
The question presented is whether the clause appearing
in the bill of lading is valid and constitutes a defense to the
shipper's claim for negligent damage to a portion of the
consignment.
A common carrier is answerable for loss or damage to the
goods transported from any cause save the act of God or
the public enemy. The measure of the shipper's recovery
is normally the market value of the goods at destination,
in like condition as they were when shipped, on the date
when they should have arrived.' The carrier may exempt
himself by contract from liability for the consequences of
events beyond his control, but he cannot contract for relief
from liability for his own negligence, even though he give
a special consideration for an agreement to that effect.'
Two so-called valuation clauses have been in frequent
use. One is a true limitation agreement. It recites that a
sum named in the bill of lading is the agreed value of the
goods, or their value per unit or per package, in the absence
of the shipper's declaration of a higher value; that the
rate is fixed with reference to the specified value, and if a
greater bt declared a higher rate will apply; that in consideration of the rate to be charged, the carrier's liability
'293 U. S. 551.
See Rule 38, 5 (b) of this court.
'St. Johns N. F. Shipping Corp. v. S. A. Companhia Geral, 263
U. S. 119, 125, and authorities cited.
'Clark v. Barnwell,"12 How. 272; York Co. v. Central Railroad, 3
Wall. 107; Bank of Kentucky v. Adams Express Co. 93 U. S. 174;
Cau v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 427.
'Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 WaUl. 357, 384; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 650; Boston & Maine Railroad
v. Piper, 246 U. S. 439, 445.

SAN GIORGIO I v. RHEINSTROM CO.
494

497

Opinion of the Court.

for loss or damage shall be limited tothe stipulated value.
enures to the carIn case of loss or damage, this clause
0
rier's but not to the shipper's benefit. The latter can in no
event recover more than his actual loss, but may have to
take much less. The damages are computed in the usual
way without reference to the stipulation, but if when so
computed they exceed the agreed limit of value, no recovery of the excess may be had.9 Such a stipulation, we have
said, is not enforcible unless the shipper, for agreeing to
such a limitation of the carrier's liability, receives a consideration consisting in the offer of a lower rate as against a
higher rate offered for the service without such limitation; 1o or, as has been said, the rate is tied to the release.11
Agreements of this kind are held to be reasonable and not
offensive to the public policy against contracts relieving
the carrier from its own negligence." The agreement as
to value, in consideration of carriage at the lower rate thus
obtained, is held to estop the shipper from demanding
damages in excess of the agreed value.
The other is a true valuation clause. It is to the effect
that in event of loss or damage for which the carrier is
liable, the same shall be computed on the basis of the
value of the goods at the place and time of shipment.
Such a provision may benefit the shipper if the goods depreciate prior to the time for delivery by the carrier, and
may lessen the carrier's normal liability if they should
appreciate prior to that time. This and other federal
'Hart v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 112 U. S. 331; Duplan Silk Co. v.
Lehigh Valley R. Co., 223 Fed. 600, 603.
"Hart v. Pennsylvania R. Co., supra; Adam.Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Pierce Co. v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 236 U. S. 278;
Boston & Maine Railroad v. Piper, supra; Union Pacific R. Co. v.
Burke, 255 U. S. 317.
Union Pacific R. Co. v. Burke, supra, 321.
"Hart v. Pennsylvania R. Co., supra, 340; Kansas.City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Carl, supra, 649-50.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

courts have decided a number of cases in which it appeared
that a bill of lading embodied such a stipulation. In some
the parties treated the clause as binding and no decision
was made on the point." In one case it was held to be
prohibited by the Cummins Amendment to the Interstate
Commerce Act, 4 but its validity in cases not controlled
by that enactment was not decided. In several cases there
are expressions, not necessary to the decisions, to the effect
that it is a reasonable and lawful provision for measuring
damages. 8 In none was there a decision that a choice of
rates was essential to its validity, although there are indications of that view. 8 The contention is that, as no
alternative rate applicable to liability measured by full
value at destination was here afforded the shipper, the
clause is void. The weight of authority in the state courts
seems to be in favor of upholding the.clause even though
no such choice is open to the shipper. 7 There is much
to be said in favor of an agreement by which the parties
adopt an agreed value as a measure of recovery for loss or
damage to goods not delivered by the carrier or damaged
in transit. We have no occasion to determine the requirements or the validity of such a contract, as we are of
opinion, that whatever is the right view as to such a valuation clause, the one here employed would be unreasonable
and contrary to public policy even if supported by a valid
Phoenix Insurance Co. v. Erie & Western Transportation Co.,
117 U. S. 312, 322; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Olivit Bros., 243 U. S.
574; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Texas Packing Co., 244 U. S. 31;
The Oneida, 128 Fed. 687.
" Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. McCaull-Dinsmore Co., 253
U. S. 97.
Phoenix Insurance Co. v. Erie & Western Transportation Co.,
supra; Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Texas Packing Co., supra, 36;
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. McCaull-Dinsnore Co., supra.
" Western Transit Co. v. Leslie & Co., 242 U. S. 448, 453-4; Union
Pacific R. Co. v. Burke, supra, 320, 321, 323.
" See The Ansaldo San Giorgio 1, 3 F. Supp. 579, 581.

U. S. v. CHICAGO, M., ST. P. & P. R. CO. 499
494

Syllabus.

consideration, and cannot estop the respondent to claim
damages measured according to the general rule. The contract plainly requires that if, after deduction of all loss and
damage, the remaining cargo, in its then condition, is worth
more at destination than the whole cargo at place and
time of shipment, the carrier shall be wholly exonerated.
As pointed out by the court below, if there were a short
delivery of fifty cases out of a shipment of one hundred
cases, but the market value of the goods delivered at the
port of destination were equal to the invoice value of the
hundred cases, plus freight, the carrier would pay nothing
for negligent loss of half the shipment. Such an agreement is against public policy, as its effect is to relieve the
carrier from the consequences of its negligence. 8
The judgment is

Affirmed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. V. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE,
ST. PAUL & PACIFIC R. CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 379.

Argued February 6, 1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission disapproving
reduced rates proposed by a carrier is void unless supported by
findings of the basic or quasi-jurisdictional facts conditioning the
power of the Commission. P. 504.
2. Such findings should be precise and clear. P. 511.
3. There is a zone of reasonableness between rates that are excessively high and rates that are less than eompensatory, within which
a carrier is ordinarily free to adjust its charges for itself. P. 506.
4. A rate-schedule initiated by a carrier must be upheld as lawful
unless adequate reasons are presented for setting it aside. P. 510.
5. The Commission may not prevent a carrier from reducing its
rates to meet competition, merely upon the ground that the reducCompare Pearsev. Quebec S. S. Co., 24 Fed. 285, 287, 288.

