OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. 8:

fifty dollars for each station distributing gasoline. The
Court pointed out the distinction between an excise tax
on sales of gasoline where, as the subject matter was separable, full protection could be afforded by enjoining enforcement as to the interstate business, and the license tax
which with its prohibition fell upon the business as a
whole. The Court said: "But with the license tax it is
otherwise. If the statute is inseparable, then both by its
terms and by its legal operation and effect this tax is imposed generally upon the entire business conducted, including interstate commerce as well as domestic; and the
tax is void." The difficulty, continued the Court, "is that,
since plaintiff, so far as appears, necessarily conducts its
interstate and domestic commerce in gasoline indiscriminately at the same stations and by the same agencies, the
license tax cannot be enforced at all without interfering
with interstate commerce unless it be enforced otherwise.
than as prescribed by the statute-that is to say, without
authority of law. Hence, it cannot be enforced at all."
In the instant case, the tax, being indivisible and indiscriminate in its application, necessarily burdens interstate
commerce. We do not pass upon the other questions
presented.
Decree affirmed.
AKTIESELSKABET CUZCO v. THE SUCARSECO
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 524.

Argued February 14,

1935.-Decided March 4, 1935.

1. The essential conditions of general average are a common, imminent peril and a voluntary sacrifice, or extraordinary expenses
necessarily made or incurred, to avert the peril, with a result-'
ing common benefit to 'the adventure. The sacrifices or expenses

AKTSLSK. CUZCO v. THE SUCARSECO.
394

395

Argument for Petitioner.

fall upon the whole adventure and are assessed in proportion to
the share of each in the adventure. P. 401.
2. Cargo owners who, under ยง 3 of the Harter Act and a "Jason
clause" in the shipping contract, have contributed in general
average to expenses of a general average nature made necessary
by a collision caused by faulty navigation of two vessels, the one
carrying their goods and another, are entitld in their own right to
recover the amount of such contributions from the non-carrying
vessel as damages resulting to them directly from the tort,-and
this notwithstanding that one-half of the burden of such recovery
will fall upon the carrying vessel in the division of liability
between it and the non-carrying vessel. P. 403.
72 F. (2d) 690, affirmed.

293 U. ,S.552, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals reversing the District Court in
a litigation in admiralty resulting from a collision between
two vessels. The only question presented here was
whether the cargo owners, who had made contributions in
general average with the vessel on which their goods
were carried, were entitled to recover the amount from
the non-carrying vessel. The carrying vessel, being
bound to share with the other the liability for the tort,
resisted this claim of cargo.
CERTIoRi,

Mr. William H. McGrann, with whom Messrs. Cletus
Keating and Roger B. Siddall were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Respondents maintain that there is a cause of action
against the tortious colliding vessel (owners), The Sucarseco, for recovery in full of the contributions made by
them towards the port of refuge expenses, on the theory
that they were obliged by law to make the contributions;
and that the obligation arose because of a tort committed
by The Sucarseco to their property.
Petitioner contends that since no obligation was imposed by law, i. e., the law of general average, upon the
respondents, and since respondents contributed only be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

294 U. S.

cause of the terms of the contract of carriage, i. e., the
Jason Clause, respondents can not enforce the claim
against the tort-feasor who is not chargeable with privity
in the contract, nor with contemplation of the consequences which might arise by reason of the special contract, nor with intention to cause a breach of such a
contract.
It is settled that one may not recover a "damage"
which he has sustained solely because of his contract with
another, and which he would not have sustained but for
that contract, from a third party who is necessarily a
"stranger" to the contract. See Robins v. Flint, 275
U. S. 303; The Federal No. 2, 21 F. (2d) 313; Elliott
Steam Tug Co. v. The Shipping Controller [1922], 1
K. B. 127, 139, 142. Distinguishing: The Energia, 61
Fed. 222, aff'd, 66 Fed. 604.
Under English law, a general exception of negligence
in the contract of carriage is regarded as wholly extinguishing negligence, and general average contributions
are then deemed to be obligatory, by force of the maritime law of general average, as if there had not been any
negligence. That seems to be the purport of the decision in The Carron Park, 15 Pro. Div. 203. Cf. The Ettrick, L. R. 6 Pro. Div. 127. Under the American law,
the restricted exception (such as a Jason Clause) does
not extinguish the negligence, i. e., does not alter the law
of general average, but permits of adjustment (contributions) between the parties concerned. The Irrawaddy,
171 U. S. 187, and The Jason, 225 U. S. 32.
The English and American laws relating to adjustment
of collision damages also differ substantially. In a" both
to blame" case, the damages.are divided in a 'ratio of the
comparative negligence under the English law, and the
owner of cargo damaged on one vessel may recover from
the other vessel only such part as is equivalent to the
degree of fault of the other (non-carrying) vessel. The

AKTSLSK. CUZCO v. THE SUCARSECO.
394

397

Argument for Petitioner.

Umona, 1914 P. 141; Roscoe, Measure of Damages in
Maritime Collisions, 3d ed., pp. 20-22. Under American
law, the damages are divided equally (each bears onehalf), but the cargo-owner on the carrying vessel may
recover his total physical damage from the non-carrying.
vessel (and none directly from the carrier, because of the
Harter Act). The Chattahoochee, 173 U. S. 540; Ralli v.
Sodeta Anonima, 222 Fed. 994, 999.
Respondents' claim for refund of their general average
contributions is derivative only, and not directly recoverable from The Sucarseco; and they are entitled to recover
back from petitioner only a proportionate share of petitioner's recovery from The Sucarseco of the items to
which they contributed.
Respondents are entitled only to an accounting from
their carrier.
'The expenses in dispute are primarily recoverable by
petitioner from The Sucarseco.
Under the principle of restitutio in integrum, these expenses incurred and paid by petitioner are recoverable by
petitioner directly from the joint tort-feasor, The Sucarseco, the owners of which are primarily liable to petitioner. The Baltimore, 8 Wall. 377, 385; Williamson v.
Barrett, 13 How. 101, 110; The Conqueror, 166 U.S. 110,
125; The MargaretJ. Sanford, 37 Fed. 148, 152.
Such rights as respondents may have are derivative
from the primary right of petitioner. That limitation
results from the nature of the relationship.
The analogy of a general average situation to one of
marine insurance has heretofore been applied by the
courts in considering cargo's position vis-a-vis the carrier.
Pool Shipping Co. v. United States, 33 F. (2d) 275;
Ralli v. Societa, 222 Fed. 994.
Authorities on the law of general average emphasize
the insurance relationship, and the analogy. Cole, General Average Law and Rules, 1928, pp. 2-3; Phoenix In-

398

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

surance Co. v. Erie Transportation Co., 117 U. S. 312,
321.
The courts have heretofore recognized and applied the
insurance analogy. Pool Shipping Co. v. United States,
supra; Ralli v. Societa, supra; The Andree-The Alexander, 47 F. (2d) 875; The Gulf of Mexico, 1924 A. M. C.
932; The Lewis H. Goward, 34 F. (2d) 791.
Mr. D. Roger Englar, with whom Mr. Leonard J. Matteson was on the brief, for respondeints.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question in this case arises out of a collision at sea
between the. Norwegian vessel Toluma and the American
vessel Sucarseco. Both vessels were at fault and both
were damaged. The Sucarseco proceeded on her voyage.
The Toluma put into a port of refuge for necessary repairs. To permit these repairs, a part of her cargo was
discharged; it was later reloaded and the Toluma completed her voyage. A general average statement was prepared which apportioned the expenses and losses, so far as
they were of a general average nature, between the owner
of the Toluma and the cargo owners.
Three suitswere brought in admiralty and were consolidated for trial. One was a libel for damages brought by
the owner of the Toluma against the Sucarseco. Another
was a cross libel for damages by the owner of the Sucarseco against the Toluma. The third libel was by the
owners of cargo on the Toluma against the owner of the
Sucarseco to recover their damages, including the amounts
which the cargo owners had paid as general average contributions.
The only question presented here is with respect to the
claim of the cargo owners. Their right to recover against
the Sucarseco, the non-carrying vessel, is not contested so

AKTSLSK. CUZCO v. THE SUCARSECO.
394

399

Opinion of the Court.

far as the physical damage to the cargo is concerned. The
contest is with respect to the contributions of the cargo
owners in general average. The Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the District Court, allowed that recovery.
72 F. (2d) 690. Because of the importance of the question, which has not been decided by this Court, a writ of
certiorari was granted, December 3, 1934.
There is no dispute that both vessels were seaworthy
and that the collision was due to the fault in navigation
of both vessels equally. No question has been raised as
to the correctness of the general average adjustment. As,
through the application to the instant case of the rule for
the division of the entire loss equally between the vessels,"
the ultimate share to be borne by the Sucarseco will not
be affected by the determination of the present claim of
the cargo owners, the Sucarseco is indifferent to the result
and the claim is opposed by the Toluma.
The cargo was carried under a provision of the bill of
lading, known as the "Jason clause," that in case "of
danger, damage or disaster" resulting "from faults or
errors in navigation," and if the shipowner "shall have
exercised due diligence to make the vessel seaworthy and
properly manned, equipped and supplied," the owners of
the cargo shall contribute with the shipowner in general
average "to. the payment of any sacrifices, losses or expenses of a general average nature that may be incurred
for the common benefit" to the same extent as if the danger, damage or disaster had not resulted from faults or
errors in navigation.2 The clause is substantially to the
See The North Star, 106 U. S. 17; Th

Chattahoochee, 173 U. S.

540.
'The applicable clause in the bill of lading is as follows:
"In case of danger, damage or disaster resulting from accident or
from faults or errors in navigation or in the management of or from
any latent or other defect of the vessel, her machinery or appurtenances, from unseaworthinls, even though existing at the time of

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

same effect as the one sustained in the case of The Jason,
225 U. S. 32, and has received its popular designation from
that decision. Petitioner contends that the liability of
cargo to contribute in general average results solely from
this provision in the contract of carriage; that the owners
of the Sucarseco were not parties to that contract; and
that the claim of the cargo owners for the refund of their
general average contributions is derivative and not directly
recoverable from the Sucarseco, the cargo owners being entitled only to an accounting from their carrier (the
Toluma) for their ratable proportion of that carrier's recovery. Respondents insist that cargo's' contributions in
general average are a part of cargo's "collision damage"
and are recoverable from the Sucarseco as a tortfeasor in
the same manner as physical damage.
While the damages due to a collision, when both vessels
are at fault, are divided as between themselves, the innocent cargo ovner may recover his full damages from the
non-carrying vessel. The Atlas, 93 U. S. 302, 315; The
New York, 175 U. S. 187, 209, 210; CanadaMalting Co. v.
Paterson Steamships, 285 U. S. 413, 418. This is so, alshipment or at the beginning of the voyage, if the defect or unseaworthiness was not discoverable by the exercise of due diligence and
if the ship-owner shall have exercised due diligence to make the vessel seaworthy and properly manned, equipped and supplied with respect to the matters concerned in the aforesaid danger, damage or
-disaster, then the shippers, consignees or owners of the cargo or the
holders of this bill of lading shall nevertheless pay salvage and any
special charges incurred in respect of the cargo and shall contribute
with the shipowners in general average to the payment of any sacrifices, losses or expenses of a general average nature that may be
made or incurred for the common benefit or to relieve the adventure
-of any common peril, all with the same force and effect and to the
same. extent as if such accident, danger, damage or disaster had not
resulted from or been occasioned. by faults or errors m navigation or
in the management of the vessel or by any latent or other defect or
unseaworthiness,"

AKTSLSK. CUZCO v. THE SUCARSECO.
394

401

Opinion of the Court.

though the carrying vessel may be free from liability to the
cargo owners by reason of the application of section three
of the Harter Act, 46 U. S. C. 192.1 On a division of the
entire damages between the two vessels, the non-carrying
vessel may recoup one-half of the amount paid to the cargo
owners. The Chattahooche,173 U. S. 540, 554, 555. The
direct liability of the non-carrying vessel" for all the damage to cargo " is "one of the consequences plainly to be
foreseen," and the responsibility of the carrying vessel to
the non-carrying vessel is measured accordingly. Erie R.
Co. v. Erie & Western Transportation Co., 204 U. S.
220, 226.
In the stipulaton of facts, the parties agreed that the
expenses, for which recovery is now sought as a part of
cargo's damage, were "of a general average nature." The
description is brief but adequate. It is a description
which incorporates the essential conditions of general average. It means that there was a common imminent peril
and a voluntary sacrifice or extraordinary expenses necessarily made or incurred to avert the peril and with a resulting common benefit to the adventure. Columbian Insurance Co,. ir. Ashby, 13 Pet. 331, 338; McAndrews v.
Thatcher, 3 Wall. 347, 365; The Star of Hope, 9 Wall. 203,
228, 229; Ralli v. Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 394, 395, 403; The
Jason, supra, pp. 48, 49. It means that the sacrifice or
expenses fell upon the whole adventure and were to be
assessed in proportion to the share ot each in that adventure. The Star of Hope, supra; Ralli v. Troop, supra.
This is the basic consideration in determining the present
question.
Prior to 3he Harter Act, a common carrier by sea could
not exempt himself from liability to the cargo owner for
damages caused by the negligence of master or crew. Liverpool & G. W. Steam Co. v. Phenix Insurance Co., 129
"Act of February 13, 1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

U. S. 397. The Harter Act, prohibiting, by sections one
and two, agreements with a shipowner which would relieve
him from responsibility for the proper loading, stowage,
custody, care, or delivery of the cargo, or from the duty to
exercise due diligence to make the vessel seaworthy, provided in section three that if the shipowner did exercise
due diligence " to make the vessel in all respects seaworthy
and properly manned, equipped and supplied," neither the
vessel nor her owner should be responsible for damages resulting "from faults or errors in navigation or in the management of the vessel." The question then arose whether
a shipowner who had exercised that due diligence was
entitled to general average contribution for sacrifices made
by him, bubsequent to a stranding of his vessel, in successful 'efforts to save vessel, freight and cargo. That right
was denied the shipowner in The Irrawaddy,171 U. S. 187.
The point of that decision was carefully stated in The
Jason, supra, p. 54. The Court there said that the authority of The Irrawaddywent no further than that "while
the Harter Act relieved the shipowner from liability for
his servant's negligence, it did not of its own force entitle
him to share in a general average rendered necessary by
such negligence." But, as the Harter Act had relieved
the diligent shipowner from responsibility for the negligence of his master and crew, the Court decided in The
Jason that it was" no longer against the policy of the law"
for him to contract with the cargo owners "for a participation in general average contribution growing out of such
negligence." Upon this ground, the validity of the
"Jason clause," similar to the one now before us, was
upheld.
What then is the effect of the "Jason clause "? It in
no way changes the essential features of general average
contributions. It must still appear ,that voluntary and
successful sacrifices have been made or extraordinary expenses incurred on behalf of those interested in the ad-

AKTSLSK. CUZCO v. THE SUCAASECO.
394

403

Opinion of the Court.

venture in order to avert a common imminent peril, with
resulting benefit to the adventure upon which the burden
of such sacrifices and expenses appropriately rests. As the
master of the ship is charged with the duty, and clothed
with the power; to determine at the time "whether the
circumstances of danger in such a case are or are not so
great and pressing as to render a sacrifice of a portion of
the associated interests indispensable for the common
safety of the remainder," the effect of the "Jason clause"
is to invest the master with authority and responsibility
to act directly for cargo in relation to cargo's duty to contribute in general average. The master becomes for that
purpose the epresentative of cargo.. Lawrence v. Minturn, 17 How. 100, 109, 110i The Star of Hope, supra,
p. 230; Rafli v. Troop, supra, pp. 397, 398; The Gratitudine, 3 C. Rob. 240, 257; 258, 260; -Burton & Co. v.
English & Co., 12 Q. B. D. 218, 223. In The Jason, supra,
p. 54, the Court pointed out that as sacrifices and expenses, in order to justify the general average contribution, must be voluntary and extraordinary, they could not
be regarded as made in the performance of the general
duty of the shipowner to his cargo. The "Jdson clause"
was sustained because it admitted the shipowner to share
in general average only in circumstances where by the
Harter Act he was relieved from responsibility. Id., pp.
55, 56.
It is with this understanding of the effect of the clause
that we come .to the question as to the right of the cargo
owners to include, in the damages they have suffered by
reason of the collision, their general. average contributions.
That the extraordinary expenses, thus shared, were due to.
-the collision cannot be gainsaid. It is because they were
thus directly caused, that these expenses form part of the
damnages to be divided between the two vessels. On this
basis. they -were included in the decree for division made
by. the District Court. and the propriety of the inclusion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

these amounts in the total damages to be divided between
the vessels is not questioned. But the right to that inclusion springs directly from the tort and in that relation no
question is raised as to proximate cause or foreseeable
consequences.
The nature of these expenditures and the fact that they
are traceable directly to the collision are not changed by
the sharing in general average. That merely affects the
distribution of the loss, not its cause. The claim of the
cargo owners for their general average contributions is
not in any sense a derivative claim. It accrues to the
cargo owners in their own right. It accrues because of
cargo's own participation in the common adventure and
the action taken on behalf of cargo and by its representative to avert a peril with which that adventure was threatened. Being cargo's own share of the expense incurred in
the common interest, the amount which is paid properly
belongs in the category of damage which the cargo owners
have suffered by reason of the collision. The Energia, 61
Fed. 222; 66 Fed. 604, 608. The right does not stand on
subrogation any more than the right of Sucarseco to bring
into the division of damages the amount it has to pay to
the cargo owners rests on subrogation. See Erie R. Co. v.
Erie & Western TransportationCo., supra- In each case
the right arises directly from the tort.
The contention as to remoteness is but another way of
presenting the same question. This is not a case of an
attempt, by reason of "a tort to the person or property
of one man," to make the tort-feasor liable to another
"merely because the injured pergon was under a contract
with that other, unknown to the doer of the wrong." See
Robins Dry Dock & Repair Co. v. Flint, 275 U. S. 303, 309;
Elliott Steam Tug Co. v. Shipping Controller [1922] 1
K. B. 127, 139, 142; The Federal No. 2, 21 F. (2d) 313.
Here, cargo as well as ship was placed in jeopardy. That
jeopardy was due in part to the negligence of the vessel
against which the claim is made. The fact that the vessel

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALTERS. 405
Syllabus.

394

and the cargo under the "Jason clause" bear their proportionate shares of the expenses gives Sucarseco no
ground for a contention that the expenses themselves, or
the share that cargo bears, were not occasioned directly
by the tort. In the light of the nature of the general average contributions, and of the event which made them
necessary, the fact that they were made under the stipulation in the "Jason clause" is no more a defense to Sucarseco than is the fact that the cargo ivas placed on board
under a contract to carry it. Indeed, Sucarseco makes no
contention of immunity. The question arises only because, through recovery by the cargo owners from Sucarseco, Toluma's share of the ultimate division is affected.
But that does not establish remoteness. We have the
anomalous situation that it is Toluma that is .opposing the
cargo owners' claim against Sucarseco, while Toluma has
collected from cargo its share- of the general average expenses on the ground that they were incurred on cargo's
behalf and were due to tJie collision.
As we have said, the "Jason clause" merely distributed
a loss for which Sucarseco was responsible and in that
view the cargo owners are entitled to recover that part of
the loss which they have sustained.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY v. WALTERS, COMMISSrONER OF HIGHWAYS, ET AL..
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COTRT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 183.

Argued December 6,' 1934.-Reargued January 16, 1935.Decided March 4, 1935.

1. A Btatute, -valid when enacted, may become invalid by change in
the conditions to which it is applied. P. 414.
2."The police power is subject to 'the constitutional limitation that
Iit may not be exerted arbitrarily or unreasonably. P. 415.

