240

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

NORMAN v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

UNITED STATES

v. BANKERS TRUST CO.
TRUSTEES.

ET AL.

ET AL.,

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 270, 471 and 472. Argued January 8, 9, 10, 1935.-Decided
February 18, 1935.
1. A bond for the future payment of a stated number of dollars in
gold coin of the United States "of or equivalent -to the standard
of weight and fineness existing" on the date of the bond, or for
payment in gold coin of the United States "of the standard of
weight and fineness prevailing" on the date of the bond, is not a
contract for payment in gold coin as a commodity, or in bullion
(cf. Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wall. at p. 250), but is a contract for
payment in money. Pp. 298-302.
2. Such "gold clauses" are intended to afford a definite standard
or measure of value, and thus to protect against depreciation of
the currency and discharge of the obligations by payment of a
lesser value than that prescribed. P. 302.
3. In 4etermining whether the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933,
exceeded the power of Congress by undertaking to nullify such
"gold clause" stipulations in preexisting money contract obligations, and by providing that such obligations shall be discharged,
dollar for dollar, in any coin or currency which at the time of payment is legal tender for public and private debts, the Resolution
must be considered in its legislative setting, with other measures
in pari materia (p. 297), and in the light of the following principles, which have heretofore been laid down by this Court, viz:
(a) The broad and comprehensive national authority over the
subjects of revenue, finance and currency is derived from the ag* No. 270, Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.; Nos. 471 and 472,
United States v. Bankers Trust Co.; No. 531, Nortz v. United States,
post, p. 317; and No. 532, Perry v. United States, post, p. 330, popularly called the " Gold Clause Cases," were disposed of in three
opinions (post, pp. 291, 323, and 346). Mr. Justice Stone filed a concurring opinion in the Perry case, post, p. 358. The dissenting
opinion, post, p. 361, applies to all of the cases.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

241

Syllabus.

gregate of the powers granted to the Congress, embracing the
powers to lay and colleet taxes, to borrow money, to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, to coin
money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign coin, and fix
the standards of weights and measures, and the added express
power "to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into execution" the other enumerated powers. P. 303.
(b) The Constitution means to provide the same currency of
uniform 'value in all the States; and therefore the power to regulate the value of money was withdrawn from the States and vested
in Congress, exclusively. P. 302.
(c) Congress has power to enact that paper currency shall be
equal in value to the representative of value determined by the
coinage acts, and impress .upon it such qualities as currency for
purchases and for payment of debts a3 accord with the usage of
sovereign governments. P. 304.
(d) The authority to impose requirements of uniformity and
parity is an essential feature of the control of the currency; and
Congress is authorized to provide a sound and uniform currency
for the country and secure the benefit of it to the people by
appropriate legislation. P. 304.
(e) The ownership of gold and silver coin is subject to those
limitations which public policy may require by reason of their
quality as legal tender and as a medium of exchange. Hence, the
power to coin money includes the power to forbid mutilation,
melting and exportation of gold and silver coin. P. 304.
(f) Private contracts must be understood as having been made
subject to the possible exercise of the rightful authority of the
Government; and their impairment, resulting from such exercise,
is not a taking of private property for public use without compensation, or a deprivation of it without due process of law.
Pp. 304-305.
4. In the exercise of the constitutional authority of Congress to
regulate the currency and establish the monetary .system of the
country, existing contracts of private parties, States or municipalities, previously made, and valid when made, but which interfere
with the policy constitutionally adopted by Congress, may be set
aside, not only through the indirect effect of the legislation, but
directly, by express provision. Pp. 306-309.
5. Whether the gold clauses of the contracto here in question may be
deemed to interfere with the monetary policy of Congress, depends
upon an appraisement of economic conditions and upon determi-

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

nations of questions of fac.t, as to which Congress is entitled to
use its own judgment. P. 311.
6. The Court may inquire whether the action of Congress, invalidating such clauses, was arbitrary or capricious; but if that action
has reasonable relation, as an appropriate means, to a legitimate
end, the decision of Congress as to the degree of necessity for its
adoption is final. P. 311.
7. Congress was entitled to consider the great volume of obligations
with gold clauses, because of its obvious bearing upon the question
whether their existence constituted a substantial obstruction to the
congressional policy. P. 313.
8. Taken literally, as calling for actual payment in gold coin, these
promises were calculated to increase the demand for gold, to encourage hoarding, and to stimulate attempts at exportation of
gold coin, in direct opposition to the policy of Congress. P. 313.
9. Congress has power, in its cpntrol of the monetary system, to endeavor to conserve the gold resources of the Treasury, to insure
its command of gold in order to protect and increase its reserves,
and to prohibit the exportation of gold coin or its use for any
purpose inconsistent with the needs of the Treasury. P. 313.
10. Treated as "gold value" clauses, such stipulations are still hostile to the policy of Congress, and subject to prohibition, for the
following reasons:
(a) Although, at the date of the Joint Resolution, the dollar
had not yet been devalued, devaluation (reduction of the weight
of the gold dollar as the standard of value, which occurred later)
was then in prospect and a uniform currency was intended. P. 314.
(b) Congress could constitutionally" act upon the gold clauses
in anticipation of this devaluation, if the clauses interfered with
its policy. P. 315.
(c) It may be judicially noticed that the bonds issued by States,
municipalities, railroads, other public utilities and many industrial
corporations contain such gold clauses. P. 315.
(d) If States, municipalities, railroads, public utilities, industrial corporations, etc., receiving all their income in the devalued
currency were obliged to pay their gold clause obligations in
amounts of currency determined on the basis of the former gold
standard, it is easy to see that this disparity of conditions would
cause a dislocation of the domestic economy. P. 315.
265 N. Y. 37; 191 N. E. 726, affirmed.
Dist. Ct. U. S. (unreported), affirmed.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for Norman.

WRITS OF CERTIORARI

were granted (293 U. S. 546, 548)

to review two decisions sustaining the power of Congress
to invalidate "gold clauses" in private money contracts.
In the first case, an action on a coupon from a railroad
bond, the Court of Appeals of New York sustained the
trial court in limiting the recovery to the face of the coupon, dollar for dollar, in currency.
In the second case, a proceeding under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, a federal District Court made a like ruling
with respect to certain other railroad bonds. In this case
two appeals were taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
one allowed by that court and the other by the District
Judge. While they were pending, this Court granted
writs of certiorari on the petition of the United States
and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, which had
both intervened in the District Court.
Mr. Emanuel Redfield for Norman, petitioner.' Mr.
Dalton Dwyer was with him on the brief, from whirh the
following summary is extracted:
The gold clause implies payment in equivalent of gold
if payment in gold becomes impossible. Its purpose is to
guard against a depreciated currency.
Congress has power to coin money and regulate the
value thereof. To coin money is to give the impression a
governmental authority. "To regulate the value thereof"
would mean to state the character of that coin in terms
of its exchange value and to give it a content of a nominal
amount. To regulate the value of money does not imply
that every obligation payable in money is susceptible of
regulation by Congress. In Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410, the
Court indicated this difference and denied that the money
powers of Congress included the right to control private
transactions within the States.
There is no power in Congress directly to enlarge or diminish an obligation. Such powers belong to the States,
if they exist at all. Congress desiring to tamper with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Norman.

294 U. S.

content of the gold unit, finds the outstanding gold-clause
obligations inconvenient, because they are so many.
Therefore, to suit its convenience, they are abolished. If
only one million dollars of such obligations had existed,
the inconvenience would not have been deemed substantial, and they would have been allowed to exist.
These gold obligations were no part of the monetary
system. They were economic transactions in a price system. The money unit and medium were mere incidents
of the transaction.
The proposition that contracts payable in gold or its
equivalent would control the value of the currency, i. e.,
prevent a raising or lowering of the content, is refuted by
the fact that the object of the parties is to fix a more accurate measure of the value of their exchange.
The use of any standard as the measure of the intent of
the parties does not, by "prophetic discernment," hinder
the monetary functions of the Government. Surely, if
the value of wheat were used as the standard, the power
to regulate money would not be affected. If parties receive an equivalent of any measure in paper money or
credits, whether that measure be gold or wheat, the currency is not affected. The bargain is merely performed
according to their intent.
The Legal Tender Cases are distinguishable. This
Court there held that the paper had the characteristics of
money and that acceptance of it could be compelled as
payment of an obligation. The compulsion was directed
at the mode of payment, not the extent of the obligation.
The obligation of the gold clause is not the nominal
face amount, but the equivalent of the gold coin in legal
tender. Thus understood, the integrity of the obligation
and the power of legal tender to discharge it in dollars, are
preserved. See Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wall. 687; Gregory v. Morris, 96 U. S. 619. The Legal Tender Cases did
not decide that the power to compel acceptance of paper
currency in discharge of an obligation implied a power to

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

245

Argument for Norman.

diminish an obligation that was measured in a special way.
This Court repeatedly implied the contrary.
This Court has before passed upon legislation masquerading as an aid to an express constitutional power. Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; McCullough v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 423; Hammer v. Dagenhart,245 U. S.
251; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; United States v. Chicago, M., St.*P. & P. R. Co., 282 U. S. 311; First Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463; United States v.
DeWitt, 9 Wall. 41; Paul v. Virginia,8 Wall. 168; Ducat
v. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44;
Blumenstock Bros. v. Curtis, 252 U. S. 436; Trade Mark
Cases, 100 U. S. 82; United States v. Fox, 95 U. S. 670;
Kent's Commentaries, 12th ed., vol. 1, p. 254, Mr. Justice
Holmes; Field, J. dissent, Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall.
651 ; Bailey v. Drexel FurnitureCo., 259 U. S. 20; McCray
v. United States, 195 U. S. 27, 63, 64; McReynolds, J.,
dissent, Rupert v. Cafey, 251 U. S.264, 304; Lambert v.
Yellowley, 272 U. S.581, 597.
; The use of gold as a measure of value is not an evil.
Any object could be used as such a measure. Yet no one
can insist that a contract calling for a payment measured
by the value of any commodity is subject to action by Congress. This, we submit, is of greater moment when one
considers that under the "Gold Reserve Act of 1934," the
coining of gold has been withdrawn and gold as a circulating medium of exchange has been abolished. Now, it is
only a base for values. It is now the same as the standard
weights and measures kept in seclusion in Washington.
Could any one assert that Congress.could pass a law under
its power to regulate weights and measures, stating that a
contract for the delivery of a bushel of wheat could be discharged by the delivery of only half a bushel?
Bankruptcy laws are express laws that impair the obligations of contracts. That power is specific for that purpose, and includes the power to regulate the relation of

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Norman.

294 U. S.

debtor and creditor by the process of composition. If this
specific power exists for those purposes, it can hardly be
said that the power over money includes an implied power
to compose and regulate the obligations between creditor
and debtor.
Assuming an emergency exists, an emergency cannot
grant a power. Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290
U. S. 398.
If this legislation purports to be based upon an emergency, it is defective because there is no time limit set in
the law as the duration of the emergency. Chastleton
Corp. v. Sinclair, 264 U. S. 543; Worthen v. Thomas, 292
U. S. 426.
Should it be argued that the power is derived from the
power of Congress to borrow money, petitioner submits in
reply the very arguments set forth above regarding the
alleged money power. Furthermore, repudiation can not
be an aid to borrowing credit. Lynch v. United States,
292 U. S. 571, 580.
Should it be held that the gold clause legislation is
sustained by the money powers of Congress, a new field
of unlimited centralized control will be opened. The same
power might apply to any form of financial transactions,to wages of child labor, suspension of mortgage payments,
etc. This would wipe out the dual form of our indestructible union consisting of indestructible States. Texas
v. White, 7 Wall. 700.
The Joint Resolution deprives petitioner of his property without due process of law and without just compensation. The Fifth Amendment is a limitation upon the
powers of Congress. McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.
27; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 154; Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 161, 172; Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; Adkins v.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for Norman.

Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, 545, 546, 561; Fairbanks v. United States, 181 U. S. 283, 289; Day, J., dissent, Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 366; United States v.
Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 282 U. S. 311, 327; Milliken v. United States, 283 U. S. 15; Heiner v. Donnan, 285
U. S. 312, 326; Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531; Untermyer v. Anderson, 276 U. S. 440; Sturges v. Crowninshield,
4 Wheat. 122.
The Federal Government is one of enumerated delegated powers. If no power to impair contracts is granted,
it is difficult to see how the power can be derived. The
only power specifically mentioned in the Constitution to
impair contracts, is the provision for bankruptcy laws.
This fact alone indicates that if the power to impair contracts were intended for the Federal Government, specific
mention would have been made of it. The prohibition
against state action, however, was specifically made
because the omission in the Constitution to prohibit the
States might have been deemed a permission for such
legislation under the sovereign powers of the States which
are inherent. See Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 388; The
Federalist, No. 44; Cooley, Story on the Constitution, 4th
ed., vol. 2, § 1399, p. 261.
The due process clause covers Acts of Congress impairing the obligation of contracts. Sinking Fund Cases, 99
U. S. 700, 718. See also United States v. Northern Pacific
Co., 256 U. S. 51, 64; Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, 674.
Impairment of contracts, incident to the exercise of a
power of Congress, may be unobjectionable, if the exercise be found reasonable. Marcus Brown Co. v. Feldman,
256 U. S. 170; Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290
U. S. 398; New York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591, 601.
Aliter, if unreasonable: Blodgett v. Holden, 275 U. S. 142,
147. Distinguishing: Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Mottley,

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the B. & 0. R. Co.

294 US.

219 U. S. 467; Philadelphia,B. & W. R. Co. v. Schubert,
224 U. S. 603. Cf. New York Central R. Co. v. Gray,
239 U. S. 583.
. If Congress exercised the power to cancel the obligation
of gold clauses, because it deemed it necessary for a better
regulation of the monetary system, the property of petitioner was taken for a public use, and adequate and just
provision should have been made to compensate him for
his loss in being required to take, dollar for dollar, in depreciated currency. Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312; Ochoa v. Hernandez, 230
U. S. 139.
Merely to state that a thing obstructs the exercise of a
power does not take it out of the class of cases where compensation must be paid. Here actually is no obstruction.
There was merely a condition of inconvenience that rendered dollar devaluation inopportune. Therefore, the
nullification of the obligation was not a regulation but an
out and out taking for an alleged public need. See Osborn
v. Nicholson, 13 Wall. 654.
Petitioner was deprived of the equal protection of the
laws. The purpose and effect were to transfer property
from the class called creditors to those termed debtors.
Mr. FrederickH. Wood for the Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.
From the brief:
The gold clause is a "gold coin," not a "gold value"
clause, but is equally within the Resolution whether interpreted as the one or the other.
An instrument so framed or interpreted, is not one for
the payment of a sum certain, but one for the payment of
an indeterminate sum ascertainable only at date of payment, and is not negotiable. Negotiable Instruments Law
of New York, Art. 3, § 20 (2); Laws of Maryland, 1898,
c. 119, § 20 (2); Uniform Negotiable Instruments Law,

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for the B. & 0. R. Co.

Art. I, § 1 (2). It is dischargeable only in the coin specified and not in that amount of other money which at the
time of payment will buy such coin. Bronson v. Rodes,
7 Wall. 229; Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wall. 687; The
Emily Souder, 17 Wall. 666; Butler v. Horwitz, 7 Wall.
258; Dewing v. Sears, 11 Wall. 379. Distinguishing:
Gregory v. Morris, 96 U. S. 619; Feist v. Soci6t6 Intercommunale Belge d'Electricit6, L. R. (1934) A. C. 161;
The Brazilian Loans, P. C. I. J., Series A, No. 20.
The Congress has an authority with respect to the national monetary system and the currency not confined
by the limitations of any one specific grant in the Constitution. The exertion of this authority may be supported by the "resulting" or " composite" powers arising through the combination or aggregation of any or all
of the specific grants of power. The Legal Tender Cases,
12 Wall. 457; Juilliardv. Greenman, 110 U. S. 421; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 407-12. See Fong
Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 711-712; The
Insular Cases, 182 U. S. 244, 288, 300; r95 U. S. 138,140,
143, 149; 258 U. S. 298, 305; United States v. Gettysburg
Electric Ry., 160 U. S. 668; Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U. S.
299, 311; Selective Draft Cases, 245 U. S. 366, 377; McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135, 161.
The sovereign character of the National Government
must be given weight in determining the scope of the
powers granted to it over the monetary system and the
currency. In construing the great clauses of the Constitution the Court has frequently been guided by the fact
that the primary purpose was to create a sovereign nation
as distinguished from a mere federation of States.
Congress is empowered to provide the people with a
national monetary system and a national currency suitable to their needs, and to secure to them the full and
unimpaired benefits thereof through the adoption of any

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the B. & 0. R. Co.

294 U.S.

measures appropriate either to the accomplishment of
such purpose or for the removal of obstructions thereto.
Congress is empowered to declare of what the currency
shall consist, to give to every unit and description thereof
the character and qualities of money having a legally defined value, to regulate the value of such money and to
make every unit legal tender at its face value for the
discharge of all money obligations, whether previously
existing or subsequently incurred.
An unqualified grant of power "to regulate the value
of money necessarily comprehends the regulation of its
value when used for the performance of any of its functions as money, and hence includes the power to control
the use of money as a standard of value. The word "regulate " means "to control" or " to govern." Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 47, 48. The word
"value" connotes equivalency according to a standard.
The express power to regulate the value of foreign coin
is obviously a power to regulate its use in this country
as a standard of value.
The power includes the pdwer to det~rmine and regulate the value of the several units of the currency in terms
of each other and to prohibit the attempted use of one
kind of money as a commodity for the purpose of realizing
in another kind of money a value greater than the stated
value of the first. Cf. Ling Su Fan v. United States, 218
U. S. 302.
The comprehensiveness of this power is evidenced by the
previous decisions of this Court arising under the power of
Congress over the monetary system and currency; also by
the decisions of this Court in respect of the related power
to create national banks; also by the decisions arising
under the commerce clause, one of the clauses upon which
the power of Congress over the monetary system and
currency is based."
Private individuals may not "by prophetic discernment," through cbnt-racts previously entered into, any

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

251

Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

more than by contracts subsequently made, withdraw from
the control of Congress any part of its legislative field or
limit or obstruct the exercise of its powers therein.
Gold clause obligations, at all times*a latent threat to
the stability of the monetary system and currency, had, at
the time of the adoption of the Resolution, become a plain
obstacle to the maintenance of a stable monetary system
and currency, which it was within the power of the Congress to remove both to meet the then existing emergency
and to prevent its recurrence.
Gold clause obligations constituted an obstruction to
the adjustment of the value of the dollar in the interest
of our foreign commerce.
In the last analysis, those who challenge the validity of
the Resolution would deny to Congress the choice of
means by which to effect such change in the monetary
system as was believed by it to be required by the needs
of the people and their commerce, both foreign and
domestic.
As r~lated to the subsequent devaluation of the dollar,
the Resolution was a valid exercise of all of the powers of
the Congress over the monetary system and the currency.
Attorney General Cummings, orally, on behalf of the
United States in these and the two following cases: * .
Underlying these four cases are certain fundamental
constitutional considerations which I think are determinative of the entire matter. ...
Although it may seem trite to do so, I draw attention
to what, for want of a better term, may be called the "presumption of constitutionality."
This doctrine has been laid down in innumerable cases,
some of which are cited in our briefs, but nowhere, I think,
* Mr. Cummings'

address, stenographically reported, has been

printed in full by the Government Printing Office. Omissions from
the present report are marked by dots. He also closed the argument
in all of the cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

294 U. S.

is it more effectively stated than in the Legal Tender
Cases, in which this Court said:
"A decent respect for a cordinate branch of the Government demands that the judiciary should presume, until
the contrary is clearly shown, that there has been no transgression of power by Congress, all the members of which
act under the obligation of an oath of fidelity to the Constitution. Such has always been the rule."
But this doctrine, I apprehend, goes still further, and
carries with it the proposition that this Court will accord
great weight to the findings and reasons set forth by the
Congress for enacting the legislation which it has passed.
The next cardinal principle is that, in selecting the
means to carry out the purpose of the Congress, the Congress has wide discretion. Unless it is shown that the
exercise of that discretion has been clearly arbitrary or
capricious or unreasonable, this Court will not interfere
with it.
I have adverted to these considerations not because they
are not recognized, but because they are so well recognized
that they are taken as a matter of course. We are inclined, I fear, to pay them a sort of lip service and then
pass on to the consideration of matters of a more controversial character. Therefore, we are apt to find ourselves in the position of ignoring certain fundamental
matters which a.e so obvious that they are, at times, forgotten or overlooked. These doctrines to which I have
referred are not only necessary and vital doctrines, essential to our form of Government, but they surcharge the
whole atmosphere of constitutional discussion. . . . In
these pending cases we have before us not only the resolutions of the Congress and its declarations and findings,
but we have also the instructions, the declarations, and
the findings of the President of the United States, as well
as his public statements, his message to the Economic
Conference of July 3, 1933, and, in addition to that, we

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

have the findings, declarations, and instructions of the
Secretary of the Treasury.
The matters to which I have referred, it seems to me,
under the peculiar circumstances which are presented
here, carry an authority and a persuasiveness which our
friends upon the other side have nowhere successfully met.
I think their briefs may be searched in vain for any wellconsidered and sustained argument showing that the
course pursued was unreasonable or arbitrary, or that adequately meets the allegations, findings, and declarations
to which I have just referred.
Therefore, I think that it is fair to assert that these
considerations assume, in the pending cases, an unusual
and an almost unprecedented importance.
Now, of course, if the Court please, the conditions which
existed on the sixth day of March, 1933, are so fresh in our
memories and have been so completely covered in the
elaborate briefs which have been presented, that it seems
quite unnecessary to refer to them again or at length.
The fact remains, however, and it is enough to say, that
an emergency of the highest importance confronted the
Nation. Banks. sound and unsound, were failing or closing upon every hand; gold coin, gold certificates, and, indeed, all other forms of currency, were being hoarded by
millions of *dollars, and, perhaps, by millions of people.
Gold was taking flight either into foreign currencies or
into foreign lands; and foreign trade had been brought to
a standstill. International finance was completely disorganized. The whole situation was one of extreme peril.
Price levels were falling. Industries were closing. Millions of people were out of work. Failures and bankruptcies were reaching enormous and, indeed, unparalleled
proportions; and, with constant acceleration, our people,
confessedly, were slipping toward a lower level of civilization. I undertake to say that no man of imagination
could have witnessed that distressing spectacle of painful

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

294 11. S.

retrogression without acute apprehension and profound
sorrow.
Now, in addition to that, we had the experiences of other
nations; we had their example. There was not a nation
on the face of the earth that was not in distress.
At that time-and the time I refer to was the 6th day of
March 1933-the Swiss franc, the Dutch guilder, and the
United States dollar were the only coins that had not been
devalued or depreciated. Country after country was going
off the gold standard, and thirty countries had passed drastic legislation with regard to finance, foreign commerce,
and the regulation of money. Embargoes, trade restrictions, and quotas were characteristic of the day and of the
time.
So, as I say, we were confronted by an industrial and
monetary and financial crisis of the most terrifying character. Amongst the various measures which were adopted
to meet the situation were those which are in the group
within which falls the Joint Resolution of the 5th of June
1933, which is so seriously under attack here today.
At the risk of being a little bit wearisome, permit me
briefly to refer to these measures. [Here the Attorney
General explained the various Acts of Congress enacted
and Executive Orders and Orders of the Secretary of the
Treasury promulgated between March 6, 1933, and
January 31, 1934.] . . .
Thus, it is apparent that the Congress acted in this
matter four times during the period to which I have referred--on March 9, 1933, the Emergency Banking Act;
May 12, the Agricultural Adjustment Act; June 5, the
Joint Resolution; and January 30, 1934, the Gold Reserve
Act.
During this period the President of the United States
acted upon five important occasions (and upon sundry
other occasions of not such major significance); on March

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

6, the bank holiday; on March 9, the extension of the
bank holiday; on April 5, the gold hoarding order; on
August 28, additional gold hoarding orders; and on the
31st of January, the devaluation of the dollar.
Thus, in a hectic period of eleven months, a sweeping
change was effected in the financial and monetary structure of our country. Our system was completely reorganized. Gold and gold bullion were swept into the
Treasury of the United States; gold certificates were
placed where they were readily within the control of the
Government of the United States; foreign exchange was
regulated; banks were being reopened; gold hoarding was
brought under control; parity was maintained; and a
complete transition was effected from the old gold-coin
standard to the gold-bullion standard, with the weight of
the dollar fixed at an endurable amount.
Now, I undertake to suggest that no one can consider
this series of acts without sensing their continuity and
realizing their consistent purpose.
Moreover, these measures must be read as a whole, and
read against the background of utter national need. I
think they tell the story of a nation finding its way out of
financial chaos into a safer and sounder position.
Moreover, it must be remembered that in these matters
two great branches of our Government, the legislative and
the executive, were acting in perfect harmony and for a
common end. It was a sweeping change, adopted by an
overwhelming majority of the Congress, and promptly approved by the President of the United States; and appealing to both as essential to the happiness and prosperity
and welfare of our country.
I contend, and later shall undertake to show, that to
admit the validity of the claims of those who are appearing here in behalf of the holders of gold certificates, and
in behalf of the gold-bond obligations, would mean the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

294 U. S.

break-down and the wreckage of the structure thus carefully erected.
Moreover, it would create a preferred class who, because
of a contract of a special character, are able to take themselves outside, as it were, of the financial structure of their
own country.
To admit such claims to the extent of $100,000,000,000,
an unthinkable sum, would be to write up the public debts
and the private debts of our country by $69,000,000,000
and, overnight, reduce the balance of the Treasury of the
United States by more than $2,500,000,000. It would add
$10,000,000,000 to the public debt. The increased interest
charges alone would amount to over $2,500,000,000 per

annum, and that sum is twice the value of the combined
wheat and the cotton crops of this country in the year
1930. The stupendous catastrophe envisaged by this conservative statement is such as to stagger the imagination

It would not be a case of "back to the Constitution." It
would be a case of "back to chaos." . ..
The primary difficulty, as I see it, with the argument
in behalf of the gold obligations, and one which vitiates
it entirely, is that the question is approached without.
reference to this background, and is based merely upon
the supposed sanctity and inviolability of contractual obligations. That our Government is endowed with the
power of self-preservation I make no doubt, and that a
written understanding must yield to the public welfare
has been so often reiterated that it is not necessary to
dwell upon it any further.
There were some priceless words used by Mr. Justice
Butler in Highland v. Russell Car & Snow Plow Co., 279
U. S. 253, 261, when he said:
"It is also well established by the decisions of this
Court that such liberty [meaning liberty of contract] is
not absolute or universal, and that Congress may regu-

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

late the making and performance of such contracts whenever reasonably necessary to effect any of the great purposes for which the national Government was created."
But that is not exactly the case here. Those who insist
upon the strict letter of the bond are insisting upon it in
a matter dealing with gold, and gold lies at the basis of
our financial structure. Gold is the subject of national legislation. Gold is the subject of international concern..
Gold is not an ordinary commodity. It is a thing apart,
and upon it rests, under our form of civilization, the whole
structure of our finance and the welfare of ouri people.
Gold is affected with a public interest. These gold contracts, therefore, deal with the very essence of sovereignty,
for they require that the Government must surrender a
portion of that sovereignty. To put it another way, these
gold contracts have invaded the federal field. It is not a
case of federal activity reaching out into a private area.
So obsessed are our opponents by the idea of the*sanctity
of contracts that they are even prepared to assert their
validity when they preempt the federal field. To me this
seems a monstrous doctrine. These claimants are upon
federal territory. They are squatters in the public domain, and when the Government needs the territory they
must move on.
And so say the authorities. In dealing with currency
and its metallic basis, the Government is exercising a prerogative of sovereignty and is dealing with a subject matter
affected with a public interest. ...
The contention that the Joint Resolution constitutes a
taking of property without just compensation is clearly
without foundation. The provision of the Fifth Amendment which bears upon that proposit.on relates to the
taking of private property by the Government for a public
use; and the Resolution, as applied to gold clauses in
private contracts, is not a taking of property in a constitu-

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

294 U. S.

tional sense, but merely frustrates a purpose contained in
a private obligation found to be incompatible with the
exercise of national power.
Frustration, it is said in one of the leading decisons,
if I recall correctly-" frustration and appropriation are
essentially different things."
Now, this doctrine is supported by so many authorities
that it is a work of supererogation to refer to them-The
Legal Tender Cases, Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v.
Mottley [219 U. S. 467], and hosts of others, which appear in our various briefs.
This leaves for consideration only the question whether
that portion of the Fifth Amendment is affected or is involved in this controversy which deals with the deprivation
of property without due process of law.
I think it is clear, and I think I shall make it even more
apparent as I proceed, that the Joint Resolution was enacted pursuant to the exercise of functions derived from
the Constitution. Now, it has been held that under certain circumstances the United States may-I am now using
the language of the books-consistently with the Fifth
Amendment, impose restrictions upon private property
for all permitted purposes which result in a depreciation
of its value. That language, I think, is found in Calhoun
v. Massie, 253 U. S. 170.
Again, it is said that this may be done for a legitimate
governmental purpose, Sinking Fund Cases (99 U. S. 700),
since pre~ixisting contracts do not limit the sovereign right
of the Government. Calhoun v. Massie; Louisville &
Nashville R. v. Mottley; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia
Public Service Corp., 248 U. S. 372.
This principle has been expressed in varying language.
I think that it is absolutely accurate to say that the sound
conclusion is that private contracts may not fetter governmental action within the powers entrusted to it by the
Constitution. That is the doctrine of the Schubert case,

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

224 U. S. 603, Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374, Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, and many others. It is in the first two of
these cases that there appears that happy and suggestive
phrase, "prophetic discernment."
The guarantee of due process in the Fifth Amendment
demands no more than that the means selected by the
Congress, as this Court has said, be for the attainment of
ends within its power, and have a real and substantial relation to the attainment of such ends. And so, as seems
inevitable in so many constitutional arguments, we go
back to the case of McCullochv. Maryland. And later we
come to the Ling Su Fan case; and, if we want a more
recent authority, we turn our hopeful eyes toward the
decision in the Nebbia case, 291 U. S. 502.
The Joint Resolution was a bona fide exurcise of constitutional power. It was not a mere arbitrary interference
with private rights or with contract rights under the
cloak of the currency power.
Now, that being true, any supposed collateral purposes
or motives of the Congress, to which reference was made
in argument here, and repeatedly in the briefs, are, to use
the language bf the Court, "matfers beyond the scope of
judicial inquiry." I think the quotation is from the
Magnano case. See also the statements made in the McCray case, 195 U. S. 27, and also in the Kentucky Distilleries case, in an opinion written, I believe, by Mr. Justice
Brandeis.
In view of the foregoing, it is not necessary to discuss
the irrelevant and unsubstantial allegation that the purpose of the legislation was to transfer wealth from one
class of our citizens to another. ...
Now, of course, the primary power upon which the
Joint Resolution rests is that portion of article I, § 8, of
the Constitution, which grants to the Congress the power
" to coin money, regulate the value thereof and of foreign
coin, and fix the standard of weights and measures."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

294 U. S.

The power also rests upon the constitutional authority
"to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States," and "to borrow money on the credit
of the United States," and upon that " composite power"
which has been referred to in that language, or in similar
language, in many of our cases ...
I have never been impressed, and I am not now impressed, by the significance of Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wall.
229, in connectio, with this controversy. And yet, by
some peculiar form of common consent, it seems to stand
at the threshold of the monetary discussion. It did not
pass upon any constitutional question whatsoever. It
explicitly, in its own language, set forth that it did not
pass upon any constitutional question. It recognized the
existence of the dual monetary system. It recognized the
fact that greenbacks were not payable for all forms of
public obligations. It recognized that these two forms of
currency were circulating simultaneously and fluctuating
violently, as measured in terms of each other. And, therefore, the Court found that the debts referred to ill the
Legal Tender act did not apply to the kinds of debts
specified in the case of Bronson v. Rodes.
Then came, of course, one year later, in 1869, I believe,
the well-known case of Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wall. 603.
I think Hepburn v. Griswold is far more interesting
than Bronson v. Rodes, because Hepburn v. Griswold did
deal with questions that are pertinent here, and dealt with
them in such a fashion that the Court later set aside that
decision in the Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457.
Following Bronson v. Rodes, are a group of cases-Butler v. Horwitz, Dewing v. Sears, The Emily Souder, Gregory v. Morris, and Trebilcock v. Wilson-all aside, as I see
it, from the essentials involved here. ...
But in the Legal Tender Cases, following the Hepburn
v. Griswold case, there are some observations which are
exceedingly interesting. There is a wealth of learning to

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

be found not only in the opinions, but in the elaborate
briefs of counsel who appeared in those historic cases.
Now, in the Legal Tender Cases if there is anything
clear it is that the Court passed on two questions: first,
whether the Congress had power to make paper money a
legal tender for any debt; and, second, if it had this power,
was such power limited to debts created after the passage
of the Legal Tender statute? . . .
Here, then, was a decision making it perfectly apparent
that, in exercising its Constitutional power in the matter
of making paper money legal tender, the Congress had as
much power to deal with existing debts as it had to deal,
with debts created after the passage of the act. This, as I
see it, if the Court please, is the most important contribution made to our present-day discussion by any of the
cases of that era.
Now, let me pursue that matter just a bit further. In
reaching its conclusion, the majority opinion contends that
the only obligation was to pay money which the law
recognizes as money when payment is made. But Mr.
Justice Strong, who wrote the opinion of the Court, disposed of many of the arguments made in the present case.
Where an attempt is made to identify money contracts
with other types of contracts the Court speaks of these
comparisons as" a false analogy "; and, on page 549, says:
"There is a wide distinction between a tender of quantities or of specific articles and a tender of legal values.
Contracts for the delivery of specific articles belong exclusively to the domain of state legislation, while contracts
for the payment of money are subject to the authority of
Congress, at least so far as relates to the means of payment. They are engagements to pay with lawful money
of the United States, and Congress is empowered to regulate that money. It cannot, therefore, be maintained that
the Legal Tender acts impaired the obligation of contracts."

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

294 U. S.

Moreover, in considering the argument that the contract to pay simply in dollars was a contract to pay in the
sort of dollars that had been established by law at the
time the contract was made, the Court disposed of that
suggestion on pages 549 and 550, saying:
" Nor can it be truly asserted that Congress may not by
its action indirectly impair the obligation of contracts, if
by the expression be meant rendering contracts fruitless
or partially fruitless." . . .
Now, of course, the next important case is Juilliard v.
Green man, 110 U. S. 421, where the power of the Congress was more fully developed and confirmed with reference to the matter of currency, an(l where it was declared
that this power existed in time of peace as well as in time
of war.
And then we have the Ling Su Fan.case, to which I have
referred before, which is of controlling significance.
I think it is clear that when the Supreme Court, in the
Legal Tender Cases, extended the power over contracts
to those which existed prior to the passage of the Legal
Tender Acts as well as those that arose subsequently, it
established a principle which, carried to its logical conclusion, sustains the power of the Congress as exercised in
the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933.
In fact, we seriously urge upon this Court the suggestion that to sustain the contention of those who appear
here in opposition to the validity of the Joint Resolution
would constitute an unfortunate recurrence to the mistaken principles of Hepburn v. Griswold. It would turn
back the pages of history more than sixty years.
In the Mottley case, decided in 1911, this Court took
strong ground on the fundamental proposition of the
right to brush aside interference with the exercise of a
constitutional power.
In the Blaisdell case [290 U. S. 398], the Chief Justice
said:

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

"Not only are existing laws read into contracts in order
to fix obligations as between the parties, but the reservation of essential attributes of sovereign power is also read
into contracts as a postulate of the legal order."
I stand upon that language, and upon the language laid
down in the other cases to which I have referred. I stand
not only upon these cases and upon the Nebbia case, but
upon the fundamental proposition that the Congress has
plenary power, in a whole range of subjects, no matter
what private parties may endeavor to do, and no matter
how completely they may attempt to thwart the exercise
of constitutional authority.
We have found it entirely possible to prohibit lotteries,
no matter what contractual obligations may have been set
up with reference to them.
The cases which deal with intoxicating liquors reached
the same result. The same observation may be made with
reference to zoning laws; the maintenance of nuisances;
and the regulation of the rates and services of utilitiesall along the line there is a recognition of this essential
power of the Government.
So I contend, both upon authority and upon reason,
that the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, was a valid exercise of constitutional power, not limited by the Fifth
Amendment or by any other clause of restriction in the
Constitution. ...
It is my belief that the word "regulate" as used in the
Constitution has never been completely and carefully
analyzed in all of its implications. How far does the term
"regulate" carry us? Manifestly it reaches to the regulation of value, and value, itself, is a relative thing. Value
appears only in relation to the value of other things.
And, moreover, the word "regulate" implies a continuing power, and is the same term that is used with reference
to commerce, and connotes the power of adjustment. It
implies the power of making the condition accord more
fully with reality and with justice.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

294 U. S.

But when you come to the power "to fix the standard
of weights and measures," the Constitution abandons the
word "regulate" and uses the word "fix."
All these things, philosophically or semiphilosophically
considered, have some relationship to these sudden and
violent fluctuations in commodity prices which so completely disarrange important equities; and to the proposition that, as a matter of essential justice, the dollar we
borrow should be, in purchasing power, substantially the
dollar we are expected to repay. What that relationship
is I do not assume to suggest, what the future may develop
with regard to this aspect of the constitutional question
I do not know. These things will follow in due course.
But I am moved to mention these matters, because on
the 14th page of the appendix to the plaintiff's brief in
the Perry case, there is a chart, which is designed to show
the terrible losses suffered by the claimant in that case.
So far as I recall, that is the only proof he has submitted
to indicate that he has suffered any loss whatsoever..
This table is made up in peculiar fashion. It is constructed by charting commodity prices in the United
States of America; and then the price of the gold dollar
is calculated in the discount thereof in terms of foreign
coinage-in terms of the gold coinage of France, Belgium,
Holland, and Switzerland. Having found the rate of discount at which the gold dollar is depressed below these
standards, the results are reduced to percentages, and
these percentages are then subtracted from the range of
commodity prices in this country in order to show the
loss sustained.
In other words, it is asynthetic chart, having no relation
to any known problem whatsoever. It attempts to trace
the history of a dollar that has ceased to exist....
The gold clause attempts to override the legal tender
and parity provisions established by law. If valid, it further, would have the effect of making certain that, what-

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

ever may be the policy of the Congress, the coins and currency of the United States shall not have equal value in
the discharge of all classes of debts.
The gold clause is a serious obstacle to the maintenance
of parity. The conventional method of maintaining parity
is by the redemption of currency in gold coin.
The startling withdrawals of gold coin for hoarding and
the flight into foreign currencies and into foreign countries
which took place in February and during the first few days
of March 1933 made it impossible to continue such redemption. The Government's stock was being rapidly
depleted. During the period to which I have just referred $476,100,000 in gold had been withdrawn from the
Federal Reserve banks and the United States Treasury, of
which $311,000,000 was for export, or to be earmarked for
foreign accounts. Simultaneously there was a great demand for money of all kinds for domestic hoarding.
At that time the outstanding gold obligations amounted
to $100,000,000,000, and the available gold supply of this
country was only $4,000,000,000, and in the entire world
only $11,000,000,000.
Moreover, there were conditions of equity that had to
be borne in mind. To have permitted, after the 9th of
March, the conversion of gold certificates and United
States notes into gold would have been to prefer the demand claims of the gold creditors, foreign and domestic,
so long as the supply should last.
And to have prohibited the conversion of such demand
obligations and yet to have continued the conversion of
time obligations--calling for gold in each instance-would
have been to prefer time obligations, both public and private. Either alternative would have been to deny equal
treatment to creditors with equal claims to consideration.
All of the foregoing suggestions bear on the question of
maintaining parity after the suspension of gold redemption. Why, parity could not have been maintained under

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

294 U. S.

the previously existing system, if outstanding gold certificates and United States notes had been redeemed in anything except gold coin. To have redeemed them in currency at the higher rate demanded by these claimants
would have immediately brought back the double standard of currency which had wrought such havoc in times
gone by.
It is, therefore, apparent that to maintain parity under
the existing conditions, gold certificates and United States
notes had to be treated upon an absolute equality with
other forms of currency, and by that same token it was
necessary to abrogate the gold clause in gold obligations.
There is another reason why the gold clause is an obstruction to the power to regulate the value of money.
One method of regulating the value of money is by lessening the gold content of the dollar. I do not understand
that any responsible person seriously disputes the right
upon the part of the Government to lessen the gold content of the dollar. Nevertheless, that power could not
have been actually used if it had entailed the redemption
or payment of $100,000,000,000 of obligations at the rate
of $169,000,000,000. ...
Let me pause for a moment to emphasize the proposition
that the only alternative open to the Congresswas a reduction in the gold content of the dollar, accompanied by a denunciation of gold clauses. In choosing this alternative,
the Government acted in the public interest, and it cannot'
fairly be contended that it acted arbitrarily, capriciously,
or unfairly or unjustly, or for any improper purpose.
There can be no doubt that the gold clause was a hindrance to the borrowing power. Such obligations, if
permitted to exist, would have preempted or, at least,
measurably restricted, the sources from 'which borrowed
money is obtained. There is no doubt that the gold clause
likewise interfered with international obligations and negotiations; and with foreign exchange and foreign corn-

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

merce. If it had been impossible to break the prewar tie
to the gold dollar we would have been denied the privilege,
open to all other civilized governments, of dealing effectively with our own currency.
No adequate reason has been advanced why the holders
of interest-bearing time obligations should be preferred
over holders of demand obligations, as, clearly, these forms
of understandings are of equal solemnity. The holders of
$20,000,000,000 of federal gold obligations, with an annual interest charge of $700,000,000, could, in a relatively
short time, have drained all of the available gold out of
the Treasury. This would have been tantamount-and I
say it deliberately-to delivering the destiny of our gold
reserves into private hands, and by that same token delivering the destiny of America into private hands.
Oh, I have found in the briefs of learned counsel upon
the other side many suggestions indicative of the proposition that our Government acted hastily, and even in bad
faith. But The Hague Court, in the opinion in the Royal
Dutch Shell case, rendered on the 15th day of February
1934, had no such misgivings as seem to afflict counsel
in this case. In that court it was said:
"There cannot be any question about violation of public order, as the measure" (that is the Joint Resolution
they are talking about) "according to its purpose set
forth in the preamble has been enacted as required by
urgent necessity and public interest" (meaning American public interest) "and not at all in order to injure the
creditor."
Apparently the contentions of our opponents in this
matter deal with questions of ethics and economics and
morals and good faith. But who shall say that all of these
considerations plead for the claimants? I hesitate to venture upon the high ground of ethics and morality so completely occupied by those who argue for the sanctity of
the written word, and who assert that it should be main-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

294 U. S.

tained at all hazards. That field has been pretty thoroughly occupied by counsel for the bondholders. Such
arguments make me feel a stranger in this preempted
territory.
But, after all, is the morality all on one side? Are there
not certain essentials of justice which the written word
may defeat and which it is the higher purpose of the law
to preserve? . . .
Should the claims of the owners of these gold obligations be approved, it would create a privileged class which,
in character, in immunity, and in power, has hitherto been
unparalleled in the history of the human race. I feel the
walls of this courtroom expand; I see, waiting upon this
decision, the hopes,.the fears, and the welfare of millions
of our fellow citizens.
These measures which are under attack were thoroughly
considered and carefully worked out. They represent the
overwhelming sentiment of the Congress. They represent the considered judgment of the President. What is
attacked here is the joint work of the legislative branch
of the Government and the executive branch of the Government, operating in complete and wholesome accord.
Those who contest the wisdom of these results, their propriety, their legality, their necessity, or their essential
justice have a heavy burden to carry.
The validity of our contention in this case rests, however, upon wider and even more compelling considerations. The authority to coin money and regulate the
value thereof is an attribute of sovereignty which cannot
be restrained by private contract nor subordinated to the
tenor of individual obligations.
That the United States of America is a sovereign nation
and possesses the essentials of sovereignty has been repeatedly declared by this Court. This of necessity must
be so. When the Constitution, by § 8 of Article I, confided the power over the currency to the Congress, it did

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

269

Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

so in representative terms, similar to those used in the
same article setting forth the other essential attributes of
sovereignty.
I like that old expression which will be found in the
Legal Essays of Thayer, on page 75 in the edition of 1908.
There is meat in this rather homely expression:
"The Constitution, in giving to Congress the power to
coin money, is not, just then, concerned with the technicalities of law or political economy; it is disposing of one of
the' jura majestatis' in brief and general terms, in phrases
which are the language of statesmen."
In the case of Juilliardv. Greenman the Court speaks
of this power as one which accords "with the usage of
sovereign governments."
Any lingering doubt upon this subject is dispelled by
reading § 10 of Article I of the Constitution, which takes
from the States all power over the currency. The state
governments were emptied of such power. All the scattered sovereignties of the different States went over en bloc
to the Government of the United States, and they were
not lost in transit.
I think it may safely be said-at least, it may reasonably
be argued-that the state governments succeeded to the
powers of the Crown, the King, and Parliament in the control over currency, and exercised this power sometimes
wisely and sometimes recklessly. Those who framed the
Constitution of the United States realized this situation,
and, knowing what had happened in the colonies, took
pains to see that this power, just like the power of the
sword, this great attribute of sovereignty, should reside
in one single authority. Hence the Constitution not only
affirmatively grants this power to the Congress of the
United States, but forbids its exercise by the various
States.
In sweeping terms the Federal Government was given
the power to collect taxes to provide for the common

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Oral Argument of the Attorney General.

294 U. S.

defense and the general welfare; to coin money; to declare
war; to maintain armies; to provide a Navy;. and, in general, to deal in these sovereign matters on an equality with
the other members of the family of nations.
These enumerated grants in § 8 of Article I of the Constitution are set forth in representative terms, which, taken
together, imply all the essentials of a comprehensive federal power over the whole subject of the medium of
exchange, standards of measure and value, coinage of
money, and the control of credit.
Of course, I am not arguing here for any inherent sovereign power. But I am maintaining that, in certain matters, in which currency is included, the Government of the
United States has the same type of sovereign power which
was accorded to the Crown in the Mixed Money Case, and
which has not, so far as I am aware, been successfully controverted in any court in any country since that time.
The history of money is fascinating. It has been tied
up with the progress of the human race. There has never
been an important era in which the destinies of men were
at hazard, where the problem of currency was not involved.
Every drama in the international field involves some
aspect of the money question.
In the earliest days, of course, the currency was crude
in form. It developed as civilization went on. Finally
we come to the period referred to in the Mixed Money
Case, where its characteristics were beginning to be understood. We then come to the early colonial days, with their
chaos and their disorder, and their conflict in matters of
currency. And, following this, these sovereign powers of
the States, which had in so many instances been unwisely
used, were turned over to the Federal Government, and,
for the first time on this continent, the cottrol of currency
was confided to a central authority.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO
240

Oral Argument 'of the Attorney General.

It was then a little-understood subject-and, I must
say, it is a little-understod subject now. We have passed
'through many vicissitudes--the Greenback Era; the period of the Legal Tender Cases; the experience with- the
double currency standard; until we reached a more or
less ,ettled status, which many people fatuously believed
was the final status. The gold standard, as it was then
known, surviv ed-the panic of the Cleveland administration; but it did not survive the vicissitudes of the World
War. The problem moved out into international areas.
Governmen'ts began to send representatives to conferences
to discuss this mutually vexing problem of gold.
It would be idle to deny that things are still in a formative stage. Indeed, great things are afoot. The London
Economic Conference of 1933 did not achieve its objective, but it had for one of its purposes the problem of the
stabilization of the currencies of the world.
. On the third of July, 1933, the President of the United
States 'cabled to the Economic Conference dealing 'with
this subject and, in the course of his message, confirmed
the proposition that our broad purpose is permanent stabilization of every national currency.
Oh, we have not seen the last of international economic
and monetary conferences. Already these events may be
dimly seen on 'the horizon. ' I do not know when it will
be. That, is written in" the 'inscrutable bosom of time.
But the day will come when the Un' ed States of America
will be conferring with the other nations of the earth, with
a view .to' the stabilization .of currencies, the fixing of
standards, and making those arrangements which are essential amongst civilized nations ff we are to dwell together in any reasonable degree of harmony and prosperity..
Let nothing be said here that makes our Nation enter
such a conference on crutches, a cripple amongst the nations of the earth..

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Government, cont'd.

294 U.S.

Mr. Justice Holmes once very wisely said-I think it
was in the Holland case"It is not lightly to be assumed that, in matters requiring national action, 'a power which must belong to and
somewhere reside in every civilized government' is not to
be found."
If the Court please, other nations, impelled by the requirements of necessity and acting for the public welfare,
have devalued their currencies, abandoned the gold standard, and abrogated gold contracts by specific laws enacted
for that purpose. Without challenge and without question they have done precisely what the Congress of the
United States has done. Belgium, France, Germany, Rumania, Mexico, Norway, and Sweden have enacted such
laws. It is an essential attribute of sovereignty.
I ask this Court to lay down in unequivocal language
the proposition that, in matters of currency, the courses of
action open to other governments are not denied to this
country, and that, in employing these sovereign powers,
we act upon an equality with all the other nations of the
earth.
Mr. Stanley Reed made the oral arguments for the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
Summary of the brief for the United States and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, on which were the
Attorney General, Mr. Stanley Reed, Solicitor General
Biggs, and Assistant Solicitor General MacLean:
An act of the legislature is presumed to be constitutional. [Citing many cases.]
In choosing the means to carry out its powers the Congress has an extremely wide discretion and its judgment
will not be overturned unless clearly arbitrary and capricious. McCulloch v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316,418; United
States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch 358; Legal Tender Cases, 12
Wall. 457; Farmers' and Mechanics' National Bank v.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for Government, cont'd.

Dearing,91 U. S. 29, 33; Juilliardv. Greenman, 110 U. S.
421; Ex parte Curtis, 106 U. S. 371; Northern Securities
Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; Ling Su Fan v. United
States, 218 U. S. 302; and*Board of Trustees of University
of Illinois v. United States, 289 U. S. 48.
The importance of the gold clause is due to the overwhelming amount of obligations calling for payment in
gold coin issued and outstanding on June 5, 1933, the best
estimates placing the amount at approximately $100,000,000,000.
Congress was justified in declaring that gold clauses are
contrary to public policy and inconsistent with our present
monetary system.. The gold clause had its origin in a period when there was in existence a dual monetary system;-that is, two kinds of money, United States coins
and circulating notes, were permitted to circulate, fluctuating in value one against the other. Bronson v. Rodes, 7
Wall. 229, was decided during this period. The dual monetary system went out of existence after the resumption of
specie payments in 1879.
The recent monetary and financial crisis called for the
exercise of Congressional power over coinage and currency.
In 1933 the dollar, the Swiss franc and the Dutch guilder
were the only monetary units of commercially important
countries which were not devalued or depreciated substantially below prewar parities. A number of countries have
placed restrictions upon the export of gold and suspended
the redemption of currency in gold coin. Between 1929
and 1933 the wholesale commodity price index of the
United States Department of Labor declined by nearly
40% and our national income had shrunk about 50%.
During February and until March 6, 1933, when the banking holiday was proclaimed, $476,100,000 in gold was withdrawn from the Federal Reserve Banks and the Treasury.
Monetary legislation enacted by Congress -in this situation included the Emergency Banking Act of 1933, au-

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Government, cont'd.

294 U.S.

thorizing the regulation and prohibition of the withdrawal,
export, and hoarding of gold; the Act of May 12, 1933,
making all forms of money legal tender for all debts and
authorizing a reduction in the gold content of' the dollar;
and the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, amending the Act of
May 12, 1933, directing the Secretary of the Treasury to
melt down all gold coins, and authorizing redemption of
currency only in gold bullion and only for the settlement of
international balances and the maintenance of the parity
of all forms of -money. The President and the Secretary
of the Treasury issued Orders pursuant to the Emergency
Banking Act of 1933; and on January 31, 1934, the President issued a Proclamation reducing the gold content of
the dollar to 15 5/21 grains nine-tenths fine.
Gold clauses, if enforceable, would have obstructed the
exercise of the monetary and other powers of the Federal
Government, whether such clauses are construed to call
for payment in gold coin itself or in an asserted equivalent
in currency. The gold clause would nullify the power of
the Congress to make all forms of coins and currency of
the United States legal tender for all payments. It is an
obstruction to the power of the Congress to regulate the
value of money by changing the gold content of the dollar.
The effect of the clause, if interpreted to call for an asserted equivalent in currency, is to increase gold-clause
debts in direct and invariable proportion to the change in
the statutory value of gold. In the present situation the
increase Would be 69.32%. The increase in interest payments on outstanding private gold-clause obligations
would be about $2,600,000,000 annually. This potential
increase in the debt burden is particularly significant in
the light of the already existing burden of long term debt
service, which had growh from 9.2% of the national income in 1929 to 21.1% in 1932. In the case of carriers,
utilities and industries whose income is and must be in dollars, the added burden of an enforceable gold clause would

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for Government, cont'd.

bring widespread bankruptcy. Non-enforcement of gold
clauses results in no real loss to creditors. Because of the
drastic decline in the price level, a coupon holder who
now received $16.93 on a $10 coupon could purchase twice
as much as could have been purchased with the $10 dur-

* ing 1921-1929.
The gold clause, construed as calling for payment in
gold coin, is incompatible with legislation to protect the
currency reserves and to provide for more effective use of
gold. The gold reserves of this country have been subject
to sudden, violent and unpredictable withdrawals. Such
withdrawals, coupled with increased demands for currency
for hoarding and .export, caused the reserve ratio of the
Federal Reserve System to fall from 65.6% on February 1,
1933, to 45.1% on March 4, 1933. The Gold Reserve Act
of 1934, providing for withdrawal and melting down of
gold coin, conformed to the postwar practice of foreign
countries and the recommendations of economists and
bankers.

Gold clauses are an obstruction to the power of Congress to borrow money; for pending a change in the gold
content of the dollar, bonds would be issued which might
incur for the taxpayers a debt greatly in excess of the
amount received for the bonds. It would be impractical
to eliminate the gold clause from future issues only, since
investors would prefer the old issues, public or private, to
such an extent as to require prohibitive rates on the new.
Gold clauses, by interfering with a change in the gold
content of the dollar, obstruct the power of Congress to
regulate foreign exchange and foreign commerce.
The Joint Resolution is within the delegated powers of
Congress. The power over the currency includes the
power to reduce the gold content of the dollar, as was done
in 1834, and so to subject creditors to a corresponding loss.
Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457, 551-2. Congress may
require creditors to accept irredeemable paper money in

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Government, cont'd.

294 U.S.

discharge of debts contracted when only gold and silver
coin were legal tender. Legal Tender Cases, supra; Juilliardv. Greenman,.110 U. S. 421. Congress may legislate
to assure uniformity in the value of all forms of money.
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; National Bank v.
United States, 101 U. S. 1; Ling Su Fan v. United States,
218 U. S. 302. The power to borrow money affords broad
scope for legislation. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316; Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust Co., 255 U. S.
180; Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449; Missouri Insurance
Co. v. Gehner, 281 U. S. 313; United States v. Fisher, 2
Cranch 358. Congress may protect our foreign trade
against the adverse effect of depreciated foreign currencies.
Hampton & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S. 394. In its
international relations the Federal Government possesses
the full attributes of sovereignty. Burnet v. Brooks, 288
U. S. 378, 396; Legal Tender Cases, supra, p. 555; Fong
Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 711.
Congress is empowered to declare unenforceable private
agreements whose purpose and effect are to usurp, frustrate or obstruct the exercise of its powers. The Fifth
Amendment does not forbid such legislation. Addyston
Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211, 229;
Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398,
435; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467;
Philadelphia,B. & W. R. Co. v. Schubert, 224 U. S. 603;
Calhoun v. Massie, 253 U. S. 170; New York v. United
States, 257 U. S. 591; Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374;
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 567;
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186, 201; Highland v. Russell Car & Snow Plow Co., 279
U. S. 253.
The gold hoarding orders, independently of the Joint
Resolution of June 5, 1933, require that the claim on the
bonds be limited to the face amount thereof. A free domestic gold market did not exist, in consequence of these

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for Government, cont'd.

orders, from the time of the banking holiday in March,
1933, to the present. The gold clause should be interpreted
as calling simply for payment in gold coin; Bronson v.
Rodes, 7 Wall. 229; Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wall. 687;
The Emily Souder, 17 Wall. 666; Butlerv. Horwitz, 7 Wall.
258; Dewing v. Sears, 11 Wall. 379. The following cases
are distinguishable: The Vaughan and Telegraph, "14
Wall. 258; United States v. Erie Ry. Co., 107 U. S. 1;
Gregory v. Morris, 96 U. S. 619; Feist v. Soci'te Intercommunale Belge d'Electricitg, [1934] A. C. 161; Cases of
Serbian and BrazilianBonds, P. C. I. J., Series A, Nos. 2021. Payment in gold coin is impossible and illegal because
of the gold hoarding orders, and should be excused. The
Tornado, 108 U. S. 342; Western Hardware & Manufacturing Co. v. Bancroft Charnley Steel Co., 116 Fed. 176
(C. C. A. 7th); Browne v. United States, 30 Ct. Cl. 124;
InternationalPaper Co. v..Rockefeller, 161 App. Div. 180.
Moore & Tierney, Inc. v. Roxford Knitting Co., 250 Fed.
278 (N. D. N. Y.). Metropolitan Water Board v. Dick
Kerr& Co., [1918] A. C. 119; Shipton, Anderson& Co. v.
Harrison,.3 K. B. 676 (1915). Manigault v. Springs, 199
U. S. 473; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 219
U. S. 467; Omnia Commercial Co. v. United States, 261
U. S. 502, 511; Board of Commissioners v. Young, 59 Fed.
96 (C. C. A. 6th); Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. St. P. & Tacoma Lumber Co., 4 F. (2d) 359 (C. C. A. 9th); Operators' Oil Co. v. Barbre, 65 F. (2d) 857 (C. C. A. 10th);
Restatement of the Law of Contracts, § 458 of c. 14;
Williston on Contracts, § 1938. Recovery is properly limited to the face amount of the bonds. Since if gold coin
were paid to the creditors it would be worth to them only
its face amount, payment of a greater sum would be a
windfall, not indemnity for loss. Wicker v. Hoppock, 6
Wall. 94; United States v. Behan, 110 U. S. .38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Trustees Mo. Pac. R. Co.

294 U. S.

If the gold clause is interpreted to call for an equivalent in currency, the equivalent is the amount of currency
which would purchase the stipulated gold coin. The
Vaughan and Telegraph, supra; Gregory v. Morris, supra.
In the existing restricted gold market, equivalence is on a
dollar-for-dollar basis. Even if the statutory price of
gold, unreflected in a free domestic market, is the proper
measure of equivalence, it is inapplicable here, for the
bonds matured on May 1, 1933, when the gold dollar was
at its old parity. Hicks v. Guinness, 269 U. S. 71; Effinger
v. Kenney, 115 U. S. 566, 575; Feist v. Soci'tg Intercommunale Belge d'Electricite, supra.
Power over coinage and currency is an attribute of sovereignty. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 380; Juilliard v. Greenman, supra; Mackenzie v. Hare, 239 U. S.
299, 311; Burnet v. Brooks, 288 U. S. 378; Tiaco v. Forbes,
228 U. S. 549, 556; Georgiav. Chattanooga,264 U. S. 472,
480; Ling Su Fan v. United States, 218 U. S. 302, 310;
Story on the Constitution (5th ed.), Vol. 2, p. 59;
Mixed Money Case, Sir John Davies' Report 48, 51, 55;
Thayer, Legal Essays, p. 75; Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat.
326. Whatever power there is over the currency is vested
in Congress. If the power to declare what is money is not
in Congress, it is annihilated. Legal Tender Cases, supra..
Mr. Edward J. White for the Trustees of the Missouri
Pacific R. Co., petitioners. Points from brief:
The Joint Resolution was valid under § 8, Art. I, of the
Constitution; also under the general welfare clause.
Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 448; Alexander Hamilton, Report on Manufactuers, 1791; Story, Constitution,
5th ed., § § 975, 978, 992. See Heisler v. Colliery Co., 260
U. S. 245.
Emergency is the occasion for the exercise of the power.
Under the general welfare clause, Congress has a large
discretion as to the means to be employed in the exercise

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

of any power granted it. Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 343; Fairbank v. United States,
181 U. S. 287; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 282; Legal
Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 538.
The declared object in the Preamble to "promote the
general welfare," and the broad grant of power in Art. I,
§ 8, should be held to include all means adopted by Congress to attain the ends in view which are not expressly
prohibited by the Constitution.
In this bankruptcy proceeding the court possessed the
power to impair the existing obligations of contracts.
The inhibition against the impairment of contract obligations applies only to the States and is not a limitation
upon the power of Congress.
Whether malum in se or malum prohibitun, no illegal
contract can furnish the basis for a legal remedy.
Messrs. James H. McIntosh and Edward TV. Bourne,
with whom Messrs. Clifton P. Villiamson and Thomas W1'.
WThite were on the brief, for Bankers Trust Co. et al.,
respondents. The following summary is from the brief:
By promising to pay a specified sum " in gold coin of
the present. standard of weight and fineness" the obligor
undertakes to pay a specified amount of money in coin
having a specified bullion content, or, if that is not available, to pay the equivalent in current money. The opinion of the lower court that the agreement constituted a
promise to pay in gold" as a mere commodity" was clearly
wrong. Thompson v. Butler, 95 U. S. 694; Bronson v.
Rodes, 7 Wall. 229, 252. The parties intended to fix a
standard or measure of value, if the debt should not be
paid in the exact coin agreed upon. They contemplated
that, when the time came to pay, there might be gold
dollars of a new standard. They must have known
that, if such were introduced, " gold coin of the present
standard" would pass from circulation. They intenled

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

294 U. S.

that, in any such contingency, the Railway Company
could discharge its debt by. paying the equivalent in gold
value of the May 1, 1903, dollar-and, correlatively, that
it must pay the equivalent so long as the equivalent could
be measured in terms of current money. In other words,
if the new standard gold dollar of 15 5/21 grains had been
coined, a tender of 1,000 new standard gold dollars in coin
would not have paid a bond. The new dollars now circulating are the equivalent of a new coin dollar of 15 5/21
grains, both by statute and in market value. How, then,
can 1,000 of the new dollars- now circulating pay a debt
which they could not satisfy if they were in gold coin of
the present so-called standard?
The gold clause or its equivalent has been in use time
out of mind and has been used not merely in money contracts between private persons, but in money contracts
of this Government.
This use has not been confined to this country. Some of
the cases next to be cited illustrate its use abroad, and the
language of the Treaty of Versailles, Art. 262, is identical
with the clause involved in this case, except that the
Treaty uses the date and these bonds used the word "present," to fix the time.
This Court has repeatedly enforced gold clause contracts according to their true intent; and other courts of
the highest distinction have construed and enforced them
as a measure of value. Gregory v. Morris, 96 U. S. 619;
Serbian Loan Case, and BrazilianLoan Case, Publications
de la Cour Permanente de Justice Internationale, Series
A, Nos. 20, 21, pp. 5-89, 91-155. The effect of the two
decisions last cited was to require each of the two Governments to pay about five times as many French paper
francs, or new French gold francs, as they would have been
required to pay if the court had not held that the gold
clause meant a "gold standard of value." To the like
effect, Feist v. Socigtg Intercommunale Belge d'Elec-

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

triciti, L. R. (1934) A. C. 161, which involved bonds of a
Belgian corporation promising to pay in gold coin of the
United Kingdom of or equal to the standard of weight and
fineness existing on September 1st, 1928. The conclusions reached by the Permanent Court and by the House
of Lords represent the accepted view everywhere except in
Germany, whose courts profess to see a difference between
a "gold coin" clause and a "gold value" clause. See 44
Yale L. J., pp. 56-57.
The Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, contains an implied admission that the gold clause prescribes a measure
of recovery.
These contracts were lawful when made, and were made
for a proper purpose, in terms which this Court for nearly
half a century before the issue of these bonds had recognized as legal and repeatedly approved as binding. Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wall. 229; Gregory v. Morris, 96 U. S.619;
Butler v. Horwitz, 7 Wall. 258; Bronson v. Kimpton, 8
Wall. 444; Dewing v. Sears, 11 Wall. 379; Trebilcock v.
Wilson, 12 Wall. 687; United States v. Erie R. Co., 106
U. S.327; 107 U. S.1; The Telegraph v. Gordon, 14 Wall.
258; The Emily B. Souder v. Pritchard, 17 Wall. 666;
Thompson v. Butler, 95 U. S.694.
In every one of the cases involving a promise to pay in
gold coin, this Court insisted upon the entry of judgment
either for gold coin or for its equivalent in currency.
The Legal Tender Cases did not overrule Bronson v.
Rodes nor weaken its authority on this question, because
those cases referred only to contracts payable in money,
simply. Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457, 459; Juilliard v.
Greenman, 110 U. S.421, 449; Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12
Wall. 687.
Preliminary to a discussion of the Joint Resolution of
June 5, 1933, and its validity, we remind the Court "that
a legislative declaration of facts that are material only as to
the.ground for enacting a rule of law . . . may not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

294 U.S.

held conclusive by the courts." Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S.
135, 154; that provisions of Bills of Right are limitations

upon all the powers of Government, Hurtado v. California,
110 U. S. 516, 531-532; that" It is the duty of courts to be
watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizen, and
against any stealthy encroachments thereon," Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 325;
that" The good of society as a whole cannot be better
served than by the preservation against arbitrary restraint
of the liberties of its constituent members." Adkins v.
Children'sHospital, 261 U. S. 525, 561.
The Joint Resolution directly involves two constitutional grants of power,-(1) the power to " coin money,
regulate the value thereof," and (2) the power to "borrow money on the credit of the United States "; and one
limitation of power, namely, the limitation imposed by
the Fifth Amendment. It also directly involves an encroachment by the Federal Government on the sovereign
power of the States.
No one constitutional power can be construed to override another. The power to borrow money is as important
as the power to coin money and regulate the value thereof.
Hence what Congress has done in the exercise of the one
power it cannot undo in the exercise of the other power.
When, during the war and at other times, Congress borrowed money on the credit of the United States and promised to pay it back in dollars " of the present standard of
value," it was exercising a power which the Constitution
gave it; therefore how could Congress afterwards say the
contracts it then made in the exercise of its power to borrow money are now contrary to public policy?,
If it were true that such contracts, so made under the
borrowing power, really interfered with the power of Congress to coin money and regulate the value thereof-that
the two powers conflicted and that the coinage power limited the borrowing power-this would mean that no Con-

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

283.

Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

gress ever had, or could have, the power to issue bonds
containing a promise to repay the money borrowed in coin
or dollars of any agreed standard of value. If this were
true, then the Congress of 1863 and 1864 had no power
to finance the last campaigns of the Civil War by issuing
bonds payable "in gold coin of the present standard of
value "; and every Congress which has issued bonds since
February 4, 1910, has made a promise it had no power to
make (c. 25, 36 Stat. 192; 31 U. S. C., § 768), and neither
the present Congress nor any future Congress can ever
issue bonds containing a binding obligation to repay the
debt measured by the standard of value which prevailed
when the debt was contracted.
. Thus the wholly unwarranted scope which the Congress
gives to the power to "coin money, regulate the value
thereof," would, if it were the true scope of that power,
make the borrowing power of Congress, which is at least
equally important, an ineffective thing.
Similarly, the power to regulate the value of money cannot be used in direct violation of the limitations imposed
upon Congress by the Fifth Amendment. If by this Resolution Congress were really exercising the power to regulate the value of money, and the legitimate exercise of that
power indirectly or incidentally impaired the obligations
of gold clause contracts, a different question-would be presented. But the Resolution is not, and does not purport
to be, a regulation of the value of money, nor is its effect
on these contracts indirect or incidental. On the contrary,
its sole purpose and its effect are, not to regulate the value
of money, but directly and immediately, not indirectly nor
incidentally, to change these contracts by destroying their
most valued obligation. Thus the Resolution not only
undertakes to restrict the expressed and vastly important
power of Congress to borrow money on the credit of the
United States, but it directly violates the limitation of
power imposed by the Fifth Amendment.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

294 U. S.

Moreover, by this Resolution the Federal Government
directly encroaches upon the sovereign power of the States
by interfering with their power to borrow money on whatever terms they choose to make; by changing the terms
of the contracts which they have made in borrowing
money; by impairing their credit; and by interfering with
and hindering their future financing. States, and municipalities under the authority of the States, have made gold
clause contracts in vast sums. They have done this in the
exercise of their sovereign power to borrow money for state
and municipal purposes on whatever terms they chose to
make. The Federal Government has no authority to interfere with them in this exercise of their sovereign power.
Pollock v. FarmersLoan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 585.
This Resolution is not, and does not purport to be, an
emergency measure. Besides, if this were an emergency
measure, it would end with the emergency, and then the
Railway Company Would have to pay these bondholders
what it agreed to pay. But it purports to be legislation
for all time..
This Resolution says these gold clause contracts "obstruct the power of Congress to regulate the value of
money." Gold clause contracts have been in common use
since before the adoption of the Constitution. During all
this time Congress has regulated the value of money.
It is obvious that the act of regulating the value of money
is not obstructed by the existence of gold clause contracts.
A medium of exchange can be abandoned and. a new medium substituted, irrespective of the existence or amount
of outstanding gold clause contracts. The substitution of
a new medium may change the number of units payable
on the contracts, but that is merely one effect of the change
in medium, not an obstruction to the change. There has
been merely a nominal increase in the units of currency
payable,-an increase in the number of units but not an
increase in the value to be paid when measured by the

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

standard agreed upon in the bonds. See Brazilian Loans
Case, supra, p. 117.
When Congress authorized the devaluation of the dollar
in 1933, its declared purpose was to increase nominal prices,
which was the same thing as reducing the real value of currency and of fixed obligations to pay a fixed number of
dollars, simply. The devaluation was expected to increase
the nominal prices of wheat, cotton, and other farm products, and, we assume, also of silver, land, and other forms
of property. And it was certain to have the automatic
effect of increasing the nominal value of gold exactly in
proportion to the devaluation.
Congress, proceeding on the theory that a devaluation
of the dollar would increase prices correspondingly, saw
that the nominal value of gold clause contracts would rise
in proportion to the devaluation, thus preserving the real
value of those obligations. What Congress wanted to do
was to devalue the dollar for the purpose of correspondingly raising prices and reducing the real value of all
debts. The gold clause in contracts prevented Congress
from reducing the real value of those obligations. The
gold clause did not obstruct the power of Congress to devalue the dollar; it merely limited the effect as to contracts which contained the gold clause.
Congress has no power to regulate the nominal, or even
the real, effects of an exercise of one of its powers, either
before or after. It may consider before it exercises a
power what the results of its exercise of power may be,
but it cannot change the situation before it acts, in order
to prevent results of its action which it considers undesirable. If it could do this, it could change or regulate
everything, including both debts and prices.
Nor are gold clause contracts "inconsistent with the
declared policy of Congress to maintain at all times the
equal power of every dollar, coined or issued by the United
States, in the markets and in the payment of debts."

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1934..
Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

294 U. S.

This policy is the policy of having every dollar, which is
authorized by law, and is in circulation, on a parity with
every other dollar that is authorized by law and is in circulation at the same time. Parity in the payment of
debts is established by legal tender laws. Parity in the
markets is maintained by, redemption, convertibility, and
acceptance of the circulating money by the Government
in payment of duties and imposts. But parity means
equality between dollars circulating at the same time.
Since the establishment of the new gold dollar, Congress has maintained all circulating dollars on a parity
with the new gold dollar. Gold clause contracts have
not obstructed this in any way. All the dollars now circulating have an equal power to pay gold clause contracts. The same number of new dollars is required to
pay a gold bond today, no matter what kind of new
dollars may be used. A law which provides for paying
,a bond with a less number of the new dollars than the
bond itself requires, simply impairs the obligation of the
bond.
The policy of maintaining the equal power of every
dollar in the markets and in the payment of debts does'
not mean that the policy of Congress is to control the
"purchasing power of the dollar "; the policy involves
only the relation of circulating dollars to each other.
Whatever the dollar, its purchasing power varies, and
must vary. If Congress had authority to regulate the
purchasing power of money, it could fix all prices and all
wages without limit.
The making of agreements to pay in gold coin of the
standard established by the United States, or its equivalent in value, could not have been against public policy
when these contracts were made; nor was the existence
of those contracts against public policy on June 5, 1933,
when the Joint Resolution was passed. No change in

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

conditions, no emergency, could make existing contracts,
which use the standard of value provided by law as their
basis, against public policy.
No conditions could ever arise which would make it
public policy for a great nation to deny the binding force
of its own obligations, lawfully issued under a paramount
power and validly outstanding. Conditions might arise
which would compel an honorable nation to admit, after
every possible effort to meet its obligations, that it could
not do so. But what conditions could justify an announcement by a sovereign nation that its promise to
pay back the equivalent of what it had borrowed was a
promise it would not keep and that it would not do what
it had agreed to do?
Under our dual system of government, no conditions
could ever arise which would make it federal public policy
to change the contracts, impair the credit and restrict the
borrowing power of the States.
Nor can conditions ever arise which will make it a
matter of public policy to impair a whole class of valid
private money obligations, by whomsoever owed.
All these inconsistencies in the Joint Resolution are due
to distorting the scope of the "power to coin money, regulate the value thereof." The true scope of that power is
to establish a " suitable medium of exchange" and a
"sound and uniform currency," which neither requires
nor permits -the impairment of a particular class of
contracts.
Although Congress does have the power to issue paper
money as well and to make it legal tender, it does not
derive that authority from the coinage power. Juilliard
v. Greenman, 110 U. S. 421, 448. "Regulate" means to
"fix" and change from time to time. "Value " means
"monetary value," not purchasing power in a particular
transaction or power to discharge a particular class of
debts. Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410, 433.

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Bankers Trust Co:

294 U. S.

The full scope of the so-called money power was stated
in Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 549, in which Chief
Justice Chase said that the Congress could "satisfy the
wants of the community in respect of a circulating medium" and "secure a sound and uniform currency."
The power to issue paper money and to make it legal
tender is primarily an incident of the borrowing power.
Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457; Juilliard v. Greenman, 110

U. S. 421.
The impairment of the real value of money contracts
does not have any tendency whatever to provide such a
"sound and uniform currency."
The power to " coin money, regulate the value thereof"
is a very different thing from a power to regulate money
contracts. Money is a medium of exchange, a mere instrument for use in commerce. Money contracts are property created through the use of the medium. The devaluation of the dollar is authorized because Congress has
control over the medium itself. One result of a devaluation is that it impairs all outstanding contracts made in a
fixed number of dollars, simply. But that does not mean
that all contracts must be made in a fixed number of dollars, simply; nor does it mean that Congress has the power
to eliminate from money contracts any clause providing
a standard of value. The scope of the power is over the
medium of exchange, not over contracts made in the
medium.
If the Joint Resolution is sustained, it means, and must
mean, that no one, neither the Government itself, States,
municipalities, nor private persons, can make a money
contract according to any fixed standard of value, even if
established by law, and lawfully provide therein that the
contract shall be performed in the same fixed standard of
value in which it was made; it means, and must mean, that
Congress has power at all times to impair or destroy at
will all money contracts.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

This is not only contrary to this Court's decisions in
Bronson v. Rodes, supra,and in the long line of gold clause
cases that followed it, but it is inconsistent with the whole
idea of any fixed standard at all. It is an appropriate
function of government to provide a standard of value as
an aid to commerce; for a standard of value is indispensable to business prosperity and to the maintenance of
regular and profitable trade and commerce. United States
v. Marigold, 9 How. 559, 566.
Obviously, the object, purpose and effect of this Joint
Resolution are not to coin money or regulate the value
thereof, nor to do anything which the Constitution authorizes Congress to do. On the contrary, it is a plain,
unqualified and direct attempt to violate the obligations
of contracts which the Government itself made with authority of Congress in the exercise of its borrowing power;
to encroach upon the sovereign power of the States by interfering with their power to borrow money on whatever
terms they choose to make, by changing the terms of the
contracts which they have made in borrowing money, by
impairing their credit, and by interfering with and hindering their future financing; and to take the property of one
class of persons and give it to another class without compensation and without due process of law. It is not a case
where legislation passed by Congress within its constitutional powers incidentally affects private rights. It is a
case where Congress undertakes directly and solely to legislate about contracts, to change their terms and impair
their value. See Osborn v. Nicholson, 13 Wall. 654, 662.
To provide that these bonds can be discharged upon payment of the nominal amount in any kind of dollars, whatever their gold value, is to take the property of one private
person and give it to another private person.
The Fifth Amendment protects the integrity of every
contract, "whether the obligor be a private individual, a
municipality, a State, or the United States." Lynch v.
United States, 292 U. S. 571, 579.

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Bankers Trust Co.

294 U. S.

We have said nothing about Congress having no powers
except the powers the people expressly gave it in the Constitution and the powers implied from the powers expressly
granted. We have said little or nothing about the reluctance of the people, because of their jealousy for their personal liberty and their apprehensions for the security of
their private property, to grant to Congress the limited
powers they finally did grant, and then only upon conditions which brought about the prompt adoption of the
first ten Amendments. These and other kindred facts,
such as the Tenth Amendment, which are fundamental
and are at the threshold of every discussion relating to
constitutional power, are so familiar to this Court that
we do not know of anything we could say on any one of
them that might help a decision of this case.
The security of private property is one of the chief concerns of the Constitution. No person shall be deprived
of his property without due process of law, nor shall private property be taken for public use without just compensation. And yet our opponents here ask the Court to
sustain the validity of a Resolution of Congress, the sole
object, purpose and direct effect of which is to deprive
persons of their property without due process of law and
to take private property for private, not public, use without any compensation. Surely this cannot be done if the
Government is a government of limited powers and the
language of the Constitution means what it so plainly says.
Mr. Edwin S. S. Sunderland filed a brief on behalf of
the Guaranty Trust Co. et al., Trustees under the First
and Refunding Mortgage of Missouri Pacific R. Co.,
interveners.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. H. W. O'Melveny, Walter K. Tuller, and Louis
W. Myers, and by Mr. Paul Bakewell, Jr., in support of
the proposition that the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933,
is unconstitutional and void.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

MR. CHMF

291

Opinion of the Couw,
JUSTIC.

HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These cases present the question of the validity of the
Joint Resolution of the Congress, of June 5, 1933, with
respect to the "gold clauses" of private contracts for the
payment of money. 48 Stat. 112.
This Resolution, the text of which is set forth in the
margin,' declares that " every provision contained in or
"'JOINT RESOLUTION.

"To assure uniform value to the coins and currencies of the United
States.
"Whereas the holding of or dealing in gold affect the public interest, and are therefore subject to proper regulation and restriction;
and
"Whereas the existing emergency has disclosed that provisions of
obligations which purport to give the obligee a right to require payment in gold or a particular kind of coin or currency of the United
States, or in an amount in money of the United States measured
thereby, obstruct the power of the Congress to regulate the value of
the money of the United Stateb, and are inconsistent with the declared policy of the Congress to maintain at all times the equal power
of every dollar, coined or issued by the United States, in the markets
and in the payment of debts. Now, therefore, be it
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That (a) every
provision contained in or made with respect to any obligation which
purports to give the obligee a right to require payment in gold or a
particular kind of coin or currency, or in an amount in money of the
United States measured thereby, is declared to be against public
policy; and no such provision shall be contained in or made with
respect to any obligation hereafter incurred. Every obligation, heretofore or hereafter incurred, whether or not any such provision is
contained therein or made with respect thereto, shall be discharged
upon payment, dollar for dollar, in any coin or currency which at the
time of payment is legal tender for public and private debts. Any
such provision contained in any law authorizing obligations to be
issued by or under authority of the United States, is hereby repealed,
but the repeal of any such provision shall not invalidate any other
provision or authority contained in such law.

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

made with respect to any obligation which purports to
give the obligee a right to require payment in gold or a
particular kind of coin or currency, or in an amount in
money of the United States measured thereby" is "against
public policy." Such provisions in obligations thereafter
incurred are prohibited. The Resolution provides that
"Every obligation, heretofore or hereafter incurred,
whether or not any such provision is contained therein
or made with respect thereto, shall be discharged upon
payment, dollar for dollar, in any coin or currency which
at the time of payment is legal tender for public and
private debts."
In No. 270, the suit was brought upon a coupon of a
bond made by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
under date of February 1, 1930, for the payment of $1,000
on February 1, 1960, and interest from date at the rate
"(b) As used in this resolution, the term 'obligation' means an
obligation (including every obligation of and to the United States,
excepting currency) payable in money of the United States; and the
term ' coin or currency' means coin or currency of the United States,
including Federal Reserve notes and circulating notes of Federal
Reserve banks and national banking associations.
"Sec. 2. The last sentence of paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of
section 43 of the Act entitled 'An Act to relieve the existing national
economic emergency by increasing agricultural purchasing power, to
raise revenue for extraordinary expenses incurred by reason of such
emergency, to provide emergency relief with respect to agricultural
indebtedness, to provide for the orderly liquidation of joint-stock land
banks, and for other purposes,' approved May 12, 1933, is amended
to read as follows:
"'All coins and currencies of the United States (including Federal
Reserve notes and circulating notes of Federal Reserve banks and
national banking associations) heretofore or hereafter coined or issued,
shall be legal tender for all debts, public and private, public charges,
taxes, duties, and dues, except that gold coins, when below the standard weight and limit of tolerance provided by law for the single piece,
shall be legal tender only at valuation in proportion to their actual
weight.'
"Approved, June 5, 1933, 4:40 p. m."

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Opinion of the Court.

of 4Y2 per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually. The
bond provided that the payment of principal and interest
"will be made . . . in gold coin of the United States of
America of or equal to the standard of weight and fineness
existing on February 1, 1930." The coupon in suit, for
$22.50 was payable on February 1, 1934. The complaint
alleged that on February 1, 1930, the standard weight and
fineness of a gold dollar of the United States as a unit of
value "was fixed to consist of twenty-five and eight-tenths
grains of gold, nine-tenths fine," pursuant to the Act of
Congress of March 14, 1900 (31 Stat. 45); and that by
the Act of Congress known as the "Gold Reserve Act of
1934" (January 30, 1934, 48 Stat. 337), and by the order
of the President under that Act, the standard unit of value
of a gold dollar of the United States "was fixed to consist
of fifteen and five-twenty-firsts grains of gold, nine-tenths
fine," from and after January 31, 1934. On presentation
of the coupon, defendant refused to pay the amount in
gold, or the equivalent of gold in legal tender of the
United States which was alleged to be, on February 1,
1934, according to the standard of weight and fineness
existing on February 1, 1930, the sum of $38.10, and plaintiff demanded judgment for that amount.
Defendant answered that by Acts of Congress, and, in
particular, by the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, defendant had been prevented from making payment in gold
coin "or otherwise than dollar for dollar, in coin or currency of the United States (other than gold coin and gold
certificates)" which at the time of payment constituted
legal tender. Plaintiff, challenging, the validity of the
Joint Resolution under the Fifth and Tenth Amendments,
and Article I, § 1, of the Constitution of the United States,
moved to strike the defense. The motion was denied.
Judgment was entered for plaintiff for $22.50, the face of
the coupon, and was affirmed upon appeal. The Court of
Appeals of the State considered the federal question and

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

decided that the Joint Resolution was valid. 265 N. Y.
37; 191 N. E. 726. This Court granted a writ of certiorari, October 8, 1934.
In Nos. 471 and 472, the question arose with respect to
an issue of bonds, dated May 1, 1903, of the St. Louis,
Iron Mountain & Southern Railway Company, payable
May 1, 1933. The bonds severally provided for the paymient of "One Thousand Dollars gold coin of the United
States of the present standard of weight and fineness,"
with interest from date at the rate of four per cent. per
annum, payable "in like gold coin semi-annually." In
1917, Missouri Pacific Railroad Company acquired the
property of the obligor subject to the mortgage securing
the bonds. In March, 1933, the United States District
Court, Eastern District of Missouri, approved a petition
filed by the latter company under § 77 of the Bankruptcy
Act. In the following December, the trustees under the
mortgage asked leave to intervene, seeking to have the
income of the property applied against the mortgage debt
and alleging that the debt was payable " in gold coin of
the United States of the standard of weight and fineness
prevailing on May 1, 1903." Later, the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation and the United States, as creditors
of the debtor, filed a joint petition for leave to intervene,
in which they denied the validity of the gold clause contained in the mortgage and bonds. Leave to intervene
specially was granted to each applicant on April 5, 1934,
and answers were filed. On the hearing, the District
Court decided that the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933,
was constitutional and that the trustees were entitled, in
payment of the principal of each bond, to $1,000 in money
constituting legal tender. Decree was entered accordingly and the trustees (respondents here) took two appeals to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals.2
'One appeal was allowed by the District Judge and the other by
the Circuit Court of Appeals.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Opinion of the Court.

While these appeals were pending, this Court granted
writs of certiorari, November 5, 1934.
The Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, was one of a
series of measures relating to the currency. These measures disclose not only the purposes of the Congress but
also the situations which existed at the time the Joint
Resolution was adopted and when the payments under
the "gold clauses" were sought. On March 6, 1933, the
President, stating that there had been "heavy and unwarranted withdrawals of gold and currency from our
banking institutions for the purpose of hoarding" and
"extensive speculative activity abroad in foreign exchange" which had resulted "in severe drains on the
Nation's stocks of gold," and reciting the authority conferred by § 5 (b) of the Act of October 6, 1917 (40 Stat.
411), declared "a bank holiday" until March 9, 1933.
On the same date, the Secretary of the Treasury, with the
President's approval, issued instructions to the Treasurer
of the United States to make payments in gold in any
form only under license issued by the Secretary.
On March 9, 1933, the. Congress passed the Emergency
Banking Act. 48 Stat. 1. All orders issued by the President or the Secretary of the Treasury since March 4, 1933,
under the authority conferred by § 5 "(b) of the Act of
October 6, 1917, were confirmed. That section was
amended so as to provide that during any period of national emergency declared by the President, he might
"investigate, regulate or prohibit," by means of licenses
or otherwise, " any transactions in foreign exchange,
transfers of credit between or payments by banking institutions as defined by the President, and export, hoarding,
melting, or earmarking of gold or silver coin .or bullion
or currency, by any person within the United States or
any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof." The Act
also amended § 11 of the Federal Reserve Act (39 Stat.
752) so as to authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

require all persons to deliver to the Treasurer of the
United States" any or all gold coin, gold bullion, and gold

certificates"

owned by them, and that the Secretary

should pay therefor "an equivalent amount of any other
form of coin or currency coined or issued under the laws
of the United States." By Executive Order of March
10, 1933, the President authorized banks to be reopened,
as stated, but prohibited the removal from the United
States, or any place subject to its jurisdiction, of "any
gold coin, gold bullion, or gold certificates, except in accordance with regulations prescribed by or under license
issued by the Secretary of the Treasury." By further
Executive Order of April 5, 1933, forbidding hoarding,
all persons were required to deliver, on or before NIy
1, 1933, to stated banks "all gold coin, gold bullion and
gold certificates," with uertain exceptions, the holder -to
receive "an equivalent amount of any other form of
coin or currency coined or issued under the laws of the
United States." Another Order of April 20, 1933, contained further requirements with respect to the acquisition and export of gold and to transactions in foreign
exchange.
By § 43 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of May 12,
1933 (48 Stat. 51), it was provided that the President
should have authorify, upon the making of prescribed
findings and in the circumstances stated, "to fix the
weight of the gold dollar in grains nine tenths fine and
also to fix the weight of the silver dollar in grains nine
tenths fine at -a definite fixed ratio in relation to the gold
dollar at such amounts as he finds necessary from his investigation to stabilize domestic prices or to protect the
foreign commerce against the adverse effect of depreciated
foreign currencies," and it was further provided that the
"gold dollar, the weight of which is so fixed, shall be the
standard unit of value," and that "all forms of money
shall be maintained at a parity with this standard," but

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Opinion of the Court.

that "in no event shall the weight of the gold dollar be
fixed so as to reduce its present weight by more than 50
per centum."
Then followed the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933.
There were further Executive Orders of August 28 and 29,
1933, October 25, 1933, and January 12 and 15, 1934,
relating to the hoarding and export of gold coin, gold
bullion and gold certificates, to the sale and export of
gold recovered from natural deposits, and to transactions
in foreign exchange, and orders of the Secretary of the
Treasury, approved by the President, on December 28,
1933, and January 15, 1934, for the delivery of gold coin,
gold bullion and gold certificates to the United States
Treasury.
On January 30, 1934, the Congress passed the "Gold
Reserve Act of 1934" (48 Stat. 337) which, by.§ 13, ratified and confirmed all the actions, regulations and orders
taken or made by the President and the Secretary of the
Treasury under the Act of March 9, 1933, or under § 43
of the Act of May 12, 1933, and, by § 12, with respect to
the authority of the President to fix the weight of the
gold dollar, provided that it should not be fixed "in any
event at more than 60 per centum of its present weight."
On January 31, 1934, the President issued his proclamation declaring that he fixed "the weight of the gold dollar to be 15 5/21 grains nine tenths fine," from and after
that date.
We have not attempted to summarize all the provisions
of these measures. We are not concerned with their wisdom. The question before the Court is one of power, not
of policy. And that question touches the validity of these
measures at but a single point, that is, in relation to the
Joint Resolution denying effect to "gold clauses" in existing contracts. The Resolution must, however, be considered in its legislative setting and in the light of other
measures in pari materia.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

First. The interpretationof the gold clausesin suit. In
the case of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,
the obligor considers the obligation to be one" for the payment of money and n9t for the delivery of a specified number of grains or ounces of gold"; that it is an obligation
payable in money of the United States and not less so
because payment is to be made "in a particular kind of
money "; that it is not a " commodity contract" which
could be discharged by "tender of bullion. ' At the same
time, the obligor contends that, while the Joint Resolution is constitutional in either event, the clause is a
"gold coin " and not a "gold value" clause; that is, it
does not imply "a payment in the 'equivalent' of gold
in case performance by payment in gold coin is impossible." The parties, runs the argument, intended that the
instrument should be negotiable and hence it should not
be regarded as one " for the payment of an indeterminate
sum ascertainable only at date of payment." And in
the reference to the standard of weight and fineness, the
words "equal to " are said to be synonymous with "of."
In the case of the bonds of the St. Louis, Iron Mountain
& Southern Railway Company, the Government urges
that by providing for payment in gold coin the parties
showed an intention "to protect against depreciation of
one kind of money as compared with another, as for example, paper money compared with gold, or silver compared with gold "; and, by providing that the gold coin
should be of a particular standard, they attempted "to
assure against payment in coin of lesser gold content."
The clause, it is said, "does not reveal an intention to
protect against a situation where gold coin no longer
circulates and all forms of money are maintained in the
United States at a parity with each other"; apparently,
"the parties did not anticipate the existence of conditions
making it impossible and illegal to procure gold coin with
which to -meet the obligations." In view of that impossibility, asserted to exist both in fact and in law, the

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Opinion of/the Court.

Government contends that," the present debtor would
be excused, in an action on the bonds, from the obligation
to pay in gold coin," but, "as only one term of the promise in the gold clause is impossible to perform and illegal,"
the remainder of the obligation should stand and thus
the obligation "becomes one to pay the stated number of
dollars."
The bondholder in the first case., and the trustees of
the mortgage in the second case, oppose such an interpretation of the gold clauses as inadequate and unreasonable.
Against the contention that the agreement was to pay in
gold coin if that were possible, and not otherwise, they
insist that it is beyond dispute that the gold clauses were
used for the very purpose of guarding against a depreciated currency. It is pointed out that the words "gold
coin of the present standard" show that the parties contemplated that when the time came to pay there might be
gold dollars of a new standard, and, if so, that "gold
coin of the present standard" would pass from circulation; and it is taken to be admitted, by the Government's
argument, that if gold coins of a lesser standard were
tendered, they would not have to be accepted unless they
were tendered in sufficient amount to make up the "gold
value" for which, it is said, the contract called. It is
insisted that the words of the gold clause clearly show
an intent "to establish a measure or standard of value
of the money to be paid if the particular kind of money
specified in the clause should not be in circulation at
the time of payment." To deny the right of the bondholders to the equivalent of the gold coin promised is
said to be not a construction of the gold clause but its
nullification.'
'As illustrating the use of such clauses as affording a standard or
measure of value, counsel refer to Article 262 of the Treaty of Versailles with respect to the monetary obligations of Germany, which
were made payable in gold coins of several countries, with the stated

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

The decisions of this Court relating to clauses for payment in gold did not deal with situations corresponding
to those now presented. Bronson v. Rodes, 7 Wall. 229;
Butler v. Horwitz, 7 Wall. 258; Dewing v. Sears, 11 Wall.
3/9; Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wall. 687; Thompson v.
Butler, 95 U. S. 694; Gregory v. Morris, 96 U. S. 619.
See, also, The Vaughan and Telegraph, 14 Wall. 258;
The Emily Souder, 17 Wall. 666. The rulings, upholding
gold clauses and determining their effect, were made when
gold was still in circulation and no act of. the Congress
prohibiting the enforcement of such clauses had been
passed. In Bronson v. Rodes, supra, p. 251, the Court
held that the legal tender acts of 1862 and 1863, apart
from any question of their constitutionality, had not
repealed or modified the laws for the coinage of gold and
silver or the statutory provisions which made those coins
a legal tender in all payments. It followed, said the Court,
that "there were two descriptions of money in use at
the time the tender under consideration was made, both
authorized by law, and both made legal tender in payments. The statute denomination of both descriptions
was dollars; but they were essentially unlike in nature."
Accordingly, the contract of the parties for payment in
one sort of dollars, which was still in lawful circulation,
was sustained. The case of Trebilcock v. Wilson, supra,
was decided shortly after the legal tender acts had been
held valid. The Court again concluded (pp. 695, 696)
that those acts applied only to debts which were payable
purpose that the gold coins mentioned "shall be defined as being of
the weight and fineness of gold as enacted by law on January 1,
1914." Reference is also made to the construction of the gold clause
in the bonds before the House of Lords in Feist, appellant, and
Sociftg Intercommunale Belge d'Electricit, respondents, L. R. (1934)
A. C. 161, 173, and to the decisions of the Permanent Cdurt of International Justice in the cases of the Serbian and Brazilian loans (Publications of 'the Permanent Court of International Justice, Series A,
Nos. 120/21) where the bonds provided for payment in gold francs.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Opinion of the Court.

that the exercise of the powers of Congress may affect
"apparent obligations" of contracts in many ways. The
Congress may pass bankruptcy acts. The Congress may
declare war, or, even in peace, pass non-intercourse acts,
or direct an embargo, which may operate seriously upon
existing contracts. And the Court reasoned that if the
legal tender acts "were justly chargeable with impairing
contract obligations, they would not, for that reason, be
forbidden, unless a different rule is to be applied to them
from that which has hitherto prevailed in the construction of other powers granted by the fundamental law."
The conclusion was that contracts must be understood as
having been made in reference to the possible exercise of
the rightful' authority 'of the Government, and that no
obligation of a contract "can extend to the defeat" of
that authority. Knox v. Lee, supra, pp. 549-551.
On similar grounds, the Court dismissed the contention
under the Fifth Amendment forbidding the taking of
private property for public use without just compensation
or the deprivation of it without due process of law. That
provision, said the Court, referred only to a direct appropriation. A new tariff, an embargo, or a war, might
bring upon individuals great losses; might, indeed, render
valuable property almost valueless,-might destroy the
worth of contracts. "But whoever supposed" asked the
Court, "that, because of this, a tariff could not be changed
or a non-intercourse act,' or embargo be enacted, or a war
be declared." The Court referred to the Act of June 28,
1834, by which a new regulation of the weight and value
of gold coin was adopted, and about six per cent. was taken
from the weight of each dollar.' The effect of the measure
was that all creditors were subjected to a corresponding
loss, as the debts then due "became solvable with six per
cent. less gold thah was required to pay them before."
But it had never been imagined that there was & taking
of private property without compensation or without due

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

process of law. The harshness of such legislation, or the
hardship it may cause, afforded no reason for considering
it to be unconstitutional. Id., pp. 551, 552.
The question of the validity of the Joint Resolution of
June 5, 1933, must be determined in the light of these
settled principles.
Third. The power of the Congress to invalidate the provisions of existing contracts which interfere with the exercise of its constitutional authority. The instant cases
involve contracts between private parties, but the question
necessarily relates as well to the contracts or obligations of
States and municipalities, or of their political subdivisions,
that is, to such engagements as. are within the reach of the
applicable national power. The Government's own contracts-the obligations of the United States-are in a distinct category and demand separate consideration. See
Perry v. United States, decided this day, post, p. 330.
The contention is that the power of the Congress,
broadly sustained by the decisions we have cited in relation to private contracts for the payment of money generally, does not extend to the striking down of express
contracts for gold payments. The acts before the Court
in the legal tender cases, as we have seen, were not
deemed to go so far. Those acts left in circulation two
kinds of money, both lawful and available, and contracts
for payments in gold, one of these kinds, were not disturbed. The Court did not decide that the Congress
did not have the constitutional power to invalidate existing contracts of that sort, if they stood in the way of the
execution of the policy of the Congress in relation to the
currency. Mr. Justice Bradley, in his concurring opinion,
expressed the view that the Congress had that power and
had exercised it. Knox v. Lee, supra, pp. 566, 567. And,
upon that ground, he dissented from the opinion of the
Court in Trebilcock v. Wilson, supra, p. 699, as to the

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Opinion of the Court.

in money generally, and that there were "according to
that decision, two kinds of money, essentially different
in their nature, but equally lawful." In that view, said
the Court, " contracts payable in either, or for the possession of either, must be equally lawful, and, if lawful,
must be equally capable of enforcement."
With respect to the interpretation of the clauses then
under consideration, the Court observed, in Bronson v.
Rodes, supra, p. 250, that a contract to pay a certain
number of dollars in gold or silver coins was, in legal
import, nothing else than an agreement to deliver a certain weight of standard gold, to be ascertained by a count
of coins, each of which is certified to contain a definite
proportion of that weight." The Court thought that it
was not distinguishable, in principle, "from a contract
to deliver an equal weight of bullion of equal fineness."
That observation was not necessary to the final conclusion. The decision went upon the assumption "that
engagements to pay coined dollars may be regarded as
ordinary contracts to pay money rather than as contracts
to deliver certain weights of standard gold." Id. p. 251.
In Trebilcock v. Wilson, supra, where a note was payable "in specie," the Court said (pp. 694, 695) that the
provision did not" assimilate the note to an instrument in
which the amount stated is payable in chattels; as, for
example, to a contract to pay a specified sum in lumber,
or in fruit, or grain "; that the words "in specie" were
"merely descriptive of the kind of dollars in which the
note is payable, there being different kinds in circulation, recognized by law "; that they meant "that the
designated number of dollars in the note shall be paid in
so many gold or silver dollars of the coinage of the United
States." And in Thompson v. Butler, supra, pp. 696,
697, the Court adverted to the statement made in Bronson v. Rodes, and concluded that "notwithstanding this,
it is a contract to pay money, and none the less so because

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

it designates for payment one of -the two kinds of money
which the law has made a legal tender in discharge of
money obligations."
Compare Gregory v. Morris,
supra.
We are of the opinion that the gold clauses now before
us were pnot contracts for payment in gold coin as a commodity, or in bullion, but were contracts for the payment,
of money. The bonds were severally for the payment of
one thousand dollars. We also think that, fairly construed, these clauses were intended to afford a definite
standard or measure of value, and thus to protect against
a depreciation of the currency and against the discharge
of the obligation by a payment of lesser value than that
prescribed. When these contracts were made they were
not repugnant to any action of the Congress. In order
to determine whether -effect may now be given to the
intention of 'the parties in the face of the action taken
by the Congress, or the contracts may be satisfied by the
payment dollar for dollar, in legal tender, as the Congress
has now prescribed, it is necessary to consider (1) the
power of. the Congress to establish a monetary system and
the necessary implications of that power; (2) the power
of the Congress to invalidate the provisions of existing
contracts which interfere with the exercise of its constitutional authority; and (3) whether the clauses in question do constitute 'such an interference as to bring them
within the range of that power.
,Second. The power of the Congress to establisha monetary system. It is unnecessary to review the historic
controversy as to the extent of this power, or again to go
over the ground traversed by the Court in reaching the
conclusion that the Congress may make treasury notes
legal tender in payment of debts previously contracted,
as well as of those subsequently contracted, whether that
authority be exercised in course of war or. in time of

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Opinion of the Court.

peace. Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457; Juilliardv. Greenman,
110 U. S. 421. We need only consider certain postulates
upon which that conclusion rested.
The Constitution grants to the Congress power "To
coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign
coin." Art. I, § 8, par. 5. But the Court in the legal
tender cases did not derive from that express grant alope
the full authority of the Congress in relation to the currency. The Court found the source of that authority in
all the related powers conferred upon the Congress and
appropriate to achieve "the great objects for which the
government was framed,"-" a national government, with
sovereign powers?' McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 404-407; Knox v. Lee, supra, pp. 532, 536; Juilliard
v. -Greenman, supra, p. 438. The broad and comprehensive national authority over the subjects of revenue,
finance and currency is derived from the aggregate of the
powers granted to the Congress, embracing the powers to
lay and collect taxes, to borrow money, to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,
to coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign
coin, and fix the standards of weights and measures,
and the added express power "to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution"
the other enumerated powers. Juilliard v. Greenman,
supra, pp. 439, 440.
The Constitution "was designed to provide the same
currency, having a uniform legal value in all the States."
It was for that reason that the power to regulate the value
of money was conferred upon the Federal government,
while the same power, as well as the power to emit bills
of credit, was withdrawn from the States. The States
cannot declare what shall be money, or regulate its value.
Whatever power there is over the currency is vested in the
Congress. Knox v. Lee, supra, p. 545. Another postulate of the decision in that case is that the Congress has

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

power "to enact that the government's promises to pay
money shall be, for the time being, equivalent in value
to the representative of value determined by the coinage
acts, or to multiples thereof." Id., p. 553. Or, as was
stated in the Juilliardcase, supra, p. 447, the Congress is
empowered "to issue the obligations of the United States
in such form, and to impress upon them such qualities as
currency for the purchase of merchandise and the payment of debts, as accord with the usage of sovereign governments." The authority to impose requirements of
uniformity and parity is an essential feature of this control of the currency. The Congress. is authorized to provide "a sound and uniform currency for the country,"
and to "secure the benefit of it to the people by appropriate legislation." Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533,
549.
Moreover, by virtue of this national power, there attach to the ownership of gold and silver those limitations which public policy may require by reason of their
quality, as legal tender and as a medium of exchange.
Ling Su Fan v. United States, 218 U. S. 302, 310. Those
limitations arise from the fact that the law "gives to such
coinage a value which does not attach as a mere consequence of*intrinsic value." Their quality as legal tender
is attributed by the law, aside from their bullion value.
Hence the power to coin money includes the power to forbid mutilation, melting and exportation of gold and silver
coin,-" to prevent its outflow from the country of its
origin." Id., p. 311.
Dealing with the specific question as to the effect of the
legal tender acts upon contracts made before their passage, that is, those for the payment of money generally,
the Court, in the legal tender cases, recognized the possible consequences of such enactments in frustrating the
expected performance of contracts,-in rendering them
"-fruitless or partially fruitless." The Court pointed out

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

.307

Opinion of the Court.

It is
validity of contracts for payment "in specie."
difto
this
referring
Bradley,
Justice
significant that Mr.
ference of opinion in the legal tender cases, remarked (in
his concurring opinion) that "of course" the difference
arose "from the different construction given to the legal
tender acts." "I do not understand," he said, "the majority of 'the court to decide that an act so drawn as to
embrace, in terms, contracts payable in specie, would not
be constitutional. Such a decision would completely nullify the power claimed for the government. For it would
be very easy, by the use of one or two additional words,
to make all contracts payable in specie."
Here, the Congress has enacted an express interdiction.
The argument against it does not rest upon the mere fact
that the legislation may cause hardship or loss. Creditors who have not stipulated for gold payments may
suffer equal hardship or loss with creditors who have so
stipulated. The former, admittedly, have no constitutional grievance. And, while the latter may not suffer
more, the point is pressed that their express stipulations
for gold payments constitute property, and that creditors
who have not such stipulations are without that property
right. And the contestants urge that the Congress is
seeking not to regulate the currency, but to regulate
contracts, and thus has stepped beyond the power
cbnferred.
This argument is in the teeth of another established
principle. Contracts, however express, cannot fetter the
constitutional authority of the Congress. Contracts may
create rights of property, but when contracts deal with a
subject matter which lies within the control of the Con'Mr. Justice Miller also dissented in Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wall.,
pp. 699, 700, upon the ground "that a contract for gold dollars, in
terms, was in no respect different, in legal effect, from a contract for
dollars without the qualifying words, specie, or gold- and that the
legal tender statutes had, therefore, the same effect in both cases."

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

gress, they have a congenital infirmity. Parties cannot
remove their transactions from the reach of dominant
constitutional power by making contracts about them.
See Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349,
357.
This principle has familiar illustration in the exercise
of the power to regulate commerce. If shippers and carriers stipulate for specified rates, although the rates may
be lawful when the
are made, if Congress
through the Interstate Commerce Commission exercises
its authority and prescribes different rates, the latter control and override inconsistent stipulations in contracts
previously made. This is so, even if the contract be a
charter granted by a State and limiting rates, or a contract between municipalities and carriers. New York v.
United States, 257 U. S.591, 600, 601; United States v.
Village of Hubbard, 266 U. S.474, 477, note. See, also,
Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S.56, 80-82;
Union Dry Goods. Co. v. Georgia Public Service Corp.,
248 U. S.372, 375.
In Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U.
S.211, 229, 230, the Court raised the pertinent question,if certain kinds of private contracts directly limit or restrain, and hence regulate, interstate commerce, why
should not the power of Congress reach such contracts
equally with legislation of a State to the same effect?
"What sound reason," said the Court, "can be given why
Congress should have the power to interfere in the case
of the State, and yet have none in the case of the individual? Commerce is the important subject of consideration, and anything which directly obstructs and thus regulates that commerce which is carried on among the
States, whether it is state legislation or private contracts
between individuals or corporations, should be subject to
the power of Congress in the regulation of that commere-"
-contracts

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

309

Opinion of the Court.

Applying that principle, the Court held that a contract, valid when made (in 1871) for the giving of a free
pass by an interstate carrier, in consideration of a release
of a claim for damages, could not be enforced after the
Congress had passed the Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat.
584. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S.
467.1 Quoting the statement of the general principle
in the legal tender cases, the Court decided that the
agreement must necessarily be regarded as having been
made subject to the possibility that, at some future time,
the Congress "might so exert its whole constitutional
power in regulating interstate commerce as to render that
agreement unenforceable or to impair its value." The
-Court considered it inconceivable that the exercise of such
power " may be hampered or restricted to any extent by
contracts previously made between individuals or corporations." " The framers of the Constitution never intended any such state of things to exist." Id., p. 482.
Accordingly, it has been "authoritatively settled " by
decisions of this Court that nio previous contracts or
combinations can prevent the application of the AntiTrust Acts to compel the discontinuance of combinations
declared to be illegal. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v.
United States, supra; United States v. Southern Pacific
Co., 259 U. S. 214, 234, 235. See, also, Calhoun v. Massie,
253 U. S. 170, 176; Omnia Commercial Co. v. United
States, 261 U. S. 502, 509; Stephenson v. Binford, 287
U. S. 251, 276.
The principle is not limited to the incidental effect of
the exercise by the Congress of its constitutional authority.
There is no constitutional ground for denying to the Congress the power expressly to prohibit and invalidate contracts although previously made, and valid when made,
'Compare New York Central & Hudson R. R. Co. v. Gray, 239
U. S. 583; Calhoun v. Massie, 253 U. S. 170, 176.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

when they interfere with the carrying out of the policy it
is free to adopt. The exercise of this power is illustrated
by the provision of § 5 of the Employers' Liability Act
of 1908 (35 Stat. 65, 66) relating to any contract the
purpose of which was to enable a common carrier to exempt itself from the liability which the Act created. Such
a stipulation the Act explicitly declared to be void. In
the Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 52, the
Court decided that as the Congress possessed the power
to impose the liability, it also possessed the power "to
insure its efficacy by prohibiting any contract, rule, regulation or device in evasion of it." And this prohibition
the Court has held to be applicable to contracts made before the Act was passed. Philadelphia,B. & W. R. Co. v.
Schubert, 224 U. S. 603. In that case, the employee,
suing under the Act, was a member of the "Relief Fund"
of the railroad company under a contract of membership,
made in 1905, for the purpose of securing certain benefits.
The contract provided that an acceptance of those benefits
should operate as a release of claims, and the company
pleaded that acceptance as a bar to the action. The Court
held that the Employers' Liability Act supplied the governing rule and that the defense could not be sustained.
The power of the Congress in regulating interstate commerce was not fettered by the necessity of maintaining
existing atrangements and stipulations which would conflict with the execution of its policy. The reason is manifest. To subordinate the exercise of the Federal authority
to the continuing operation of previous contracts would
be to place to this extent the regulation of interstate commerce in the hands of private individuals and to withdraw
from the control of the Congress so much of the field as
they might choose by "prophetic discernment" to bring
within the range of their agreements. The Constitution
recognizes no such limitation. Id., pp. 613, 614. See,

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Opinion of the Court.

also, United States v. Southern Pacific Co., supra;Sproles
v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374, 390, 391; Radio Commission v.
Nelson Brothers Co. 289 U. S. 266, 282.
The same reasoning applies to the constitutional au-,
thority of the Congress to regulate the currency and to
establish the monetary system of the country. If the
gold clauses now before us interfere with the policy of the
Congress in the exercise of that authority they cannot
stand.
Fourth. The effect of the gold clauses in suit in relation to the monetary policy adopted by the Congress.
Despite the wide range of the discussion at the bar and
the earnestness with which the arguments against the
validity of the Joint Resolution have been pressed, these
contentions necessarily are brought, under the dominant
principles to which we have referred, to a single and
narrow point. That point is whether the gold clauses
do constitute an actual interference with the monetary
policy of the Congress in the light of its broad power to
determine that policy. Whether they may be deemed to
be such an interference depends upon an appraisement of
economic conditions and upon determinations of questions of fact. With respect to those conditions and determinations, the Congress is entitled to its own judgment.
We may inquire whether its action is arbitrary or capricious, that is, whether it has reasonable relation to a
legitimate end. If it is an appropriate means to such
an end; the decisions of the Congress as to the degree of
the necessity for the adoption of that means, is final.
McCulloch v. Maryland, supra, pp. 421, 423; Juilliardv.
Greenman, supra, p. 450; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S.
495, 521; Everard's Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S. 545, 559,
562.
The Committee on Banking and Currency of the House
of Representatives stated in its report recommending

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

favorable action upon the Joint Resolution (H. R. Rep.
No. 169, 73d Cong., 1st Sess.):
"The occasion for the declaration in the resolution that,
the gold clauses are contrary to public policy arises out
of the experiences of the present emergency. These gold
clauses render ineffective the power of the Government
to create a currency and determine the value thereof. If
the gold clause applied to a very limited number of contracts and security issues, it would be a matter of no
particular consequence, but in this country virtually all
obligations, almost as a matter of routine, contain the
gold clause. In the light of this situation two phenomena
which have developed during the present emergency make
the enforcement of the gold clauses incompatible with
the public interest. The first is the tendency which has
developed internally to hoard gold; the second is the
tendency for capital to leave the country. Under these
circumstances no currency system, whether based upon
gold or upon any other foundation, can meet the requirements of a situation in which many billions of dollars of
securities are expressed in a particular form of the circulating medium, particularly when it is the medium
upon which the entire credit and currency structure
rests."
And the Joint Resolution itself recites the determination of the Congress in these words: '
"Whereas the existing emergency has disclosed that
provisions of obligations which purport to give. the obligee
a right to require payment in gold or a particular kind
of coin or currency of the United States, or in an amount
in money of the United States measured thereby, obstruct
the power of the Congress to regulate the value of the
money of the United States, and are inconsistent with the
'See Note 1.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

Opinion of the Court.

declared policy of the Congress to maintain at all times
the equal power of every dollar, coined or issued by the
United States, in the markets and in the payment of
debts."
Can we say that this determination is. so destitute of
basis that the interdiction of the gold clauses must be
deemed to be without any reasonable relation to the monetary policy adopted by the Congress?
The Congress in the exercise of its discretion was entitled to consider the volume of obligations with gold
clauses, as that fact, as the report of the House Committee
observed, obviously had a bearing upon the question
whether their existence constituted a substantial obstruction to the congressional policy. The estimates submitted at the bar indicate that when the Joint Resolution
was adopted there were outstanding seventy-five billion
dollars or more of such obligations, the annual interest
charges on which probably amounted to between three
and four billion dollars. It is apparent that if these
promises were to be taken literally, as calling for actual
payment in gold coin, they would be directly opposed to
the policy of Congress, as they would be calculated to
increase the demand for gold, to encourage hoarding, and
to stimulate attempts at exportation of gold coin. If
there were no outstanding obligations with gold clauses,
we suppose that no one would question the power of the
Congress, in its control of the monetary system, to endeavor to conserve the gold resources of the Treasury, to
insure its command of gold in order to protect and increase
its reserves, and to prohibit the exportation of gold coin
or its use for any purpose inconsistent with the needs of
the Treasury. See Ling Su Fan v. United States, supra.
And if the Congress would have that power in the absence
of gold clauses, principles beyond dispute .compe, the
conclusion that~private parties, or States or municipa1ties

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

by making such contracts could not prevent or embarrass
its exercise. In that view of the import of the gold,
clauses, their obstructive character is clear.
But, if the clauses are treated as "gold value" clauses,
that is, as intended to set up a measure or standard of
value if gold coin is not available, we think they are still
hostile to the policy of the Congress and hence subject to
prohibition. It is true that when the Joint Resolution
was adopted on June 5, 1933, while gold coin had largely
been withdrawn from circulation and the Treasury had
declared that "gold is not now paid, nor" is it available
for payment, upon public or private debts," the dollar
had not yet been devalued. But devaluation was in prospect and a uniform currency was intended.' Section 43
of the Act of May 12, 1933 (48 Stat. 51), provided that
the President should have authority, on certain conditions, to fix the weight of the gold dollar as stated, and
that its weight as so fixed should be "the standard unit
of value" with which all forms of money should be maintained "at a parity." The .weight of the gold dollar was
not to be reduced by more than 50 per centum. The Gold
Reserve Act of 1934 (January 30, 1934, 48 Stat. 337),
provided that the President should not fix the weight of
Treasury Statement of May 2e, 1933.
'The Senate Committee on Banking and Currency, in its Report
of May 27, 1933, stated: "By the Emergency Banking Act and the
existing Executive Orders gold is not now paid, or obtainable for
payment, on obligations public or private. By the Thomas amendment currency was intended to be made legal tender for all debts.
However, due to the language used doubt has arisen whether it has
been made iegal tender for payments on gold clause obligations, publie and private. This doubt should be removed. These gold clauses
interfere with the power of Congress to regulate the value of the
money of the United States and the enforcement of them would be
inconsistent with existing legislative policy." Sen. Rep. No. 99, 73d
Cong., 1st sess.

NORMAN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
240

315

Opinion of the Court.

the gold dollar at more than 60 per cent. of its present
weight. The order of the President of January 31, 1934,
fixed the weight of the gold dollar at 15 5/21 grains ninetenths fine as against the former standard of 25 8/10
grains nine-tenths fine. If the gold clauses interfered
with the congressional policy and hence could be invalidated, there appears to be no constitutional objection to
that action by the Congress in anticipation of the determination of the value of the currency. And the questions
now before us must be determined in the light of that
action.
The devaluation of the dollar placed the domestic economy upon a new basis. In the currency as thus provided,
States and municipalities must receive their taxes; railroads, their rates and fares; public utilities, their charges
for services. The income out of which they must meet
their obligations is determined by the new standard. Yet,
according to the contentions before us, while that income
is thus controlled by law, their indebtedness on their
"gold bonds" must be met by an amount of currency
determined by the former gold standard. Their receipts,
in this view, would be fixed on one basis; their interest
charges, and the principal of their obligations, on another.
It is common knowledge that the bonds issued by these
obligors have generally contained gold clauses, and presum~ably they account for a large part of the outstanding
obligations of that sort. It is also common knowledge
that a similar situation exists with respect to numerous
industrial corporations that have issued their "gold
bonds" and must now receive payments for their products
in the existing currency. It requires no acute analysis
or profound economic inquiry to disclose the dislocation
of the domestic economy which would be caused by such
a disparity of conditions in which, it is insisted, those
debtors under gold clauses should be required to pay one

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

dollar and sixty-nine cents in currency while respectively
receiving their taxes, rates, charges and prices on the
basis of one dollar of that currency.
We are not concerned with consequences, in the sense
that consequences, however serious, may excuse an invasion of constitutional right. We are concerned with the
constitutional power of the Congress over the monetary
system of the country and its attempted frustration. Exercising that power, the Congress has undertaken to establish a uniform currency, and parity between kinds of
currency, and to make that currency, dollar for dollar,
legal tender for the payment of debts. In the light of
abundant experience, the Congress was entitled to choose
such a uniform monetary system, and to reject a dual
system, with respect to all obligations within the range
of the exercise of its constitutional authority. The contention that these gold clauses are valid contracts and
cannot be struck down proceeds upon the assumption that
private parties, and States and municipalities, may make
and enforce contracts which may limit that authority.
Dismissing that untenable assumption, the facts must
be faced. We think that it is clearly shown that
these clauses interefere with the exertion of the power
granted to the Congress and certainly it is not established
that the Congress arbitrarily or capriciously decided that
such an interference existed.
The judgment and decree, severally under review, are
affirmed.
No. 270. Judgment affirmed.
Nos. 471 and 472. Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE VAN DiVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR. JUsTIcE BUTLER

dissent.

See post, p. 361.

