648

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

294 U. S.

CONTINENTAL ILLINOIS NATIONAL BANK &
TRUST CO. v. CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND &
PACIFIC RY. CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.-

Nos. 479 and 480.

Argued February 12, 13, 1935.-Decided April 1,
1935.

1. Section 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, added by Act of March 3,
1933, which provides a method whereby any railroad engaged in
interstate commerce and which is insolvent, or "unable to pay
its debts as they mature," may be reorganized through proceedings
taken on its application in the bankruptcy court, during the pendency of which that court is given exclusive jurisdiction of such
"debtor" and its property wherever located, is,. in its general
scope and aim, within the power of Congress "to establish uniform
laws on the subject of bankruptcies." Constitution, Art. I, § 8,
cl. 4. Pp. 667, 675.
2. The bankruptcy power is not limited to the rules on the subject
which prevailed in England and the Colonies at the time of the
adoption of the Constitution. P. 668.
3. The bankruptcy power is adaptable to new conditions; its nature
and extent are to be fixed by the gradual processes of historical
and judicial inclusion and exclusion. The tendency of interpretation has been progressively liberal. Pp. 668, 671.
4. The expression "unable to meet its debts as they mature," used
in § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act as an alternative to "insolvent,"
means something less than "bankruptcy" or "insolvency," and
may be construed to include a debtor who, although unable to
pay promptly, may.do so if given time. P. 672.
* Together with Nos. 481 and 482, Chase NationalBank v. Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry.Co.; Nos. 483 and 484, Mississippi Valley Trust Co. v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.; Nos. 485 and 486, Harris Trust & Savings Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.; Nos, 487 and 488, New
York Trust Co. v. Chicago, R. 1.& P. Ry. Co.; and Nos. 489 and
490, Reconstruction Finance Corp. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
all on certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit.

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 649
648

Syllabus.

5. Section 77 is none the less a law on the subject of bankruptcies
although the reorganization proceeding does not involve an adjudication of bankruptcy. P. 672.
6. In a reorganization proceeding under § 77, the bankruptcy court
has jurisdiction to enjoin cr9ditors who hold collateral notes of
the debtor railroad secured by its bonds and bonds of its subsidiaries, from selling the collateral under power of sale in the notes,
where such sale would so hinder, obstruct and delay the preparation and consummation of a plan of reorganization as probably
to prevent it. P. 675.
7. This power is to be deduced:
(a) As a power inherent in the court of bankruptcy as a court
of equity, to protect its jurisdiction. P. 675.
(b) From Jud. Code, § 262, which authorizes courts of the
United States to issue all writs necessary for the exercise of their
respective jurisdictions. Id.
(c) From § 2 (15) of the Bankruptcy Act, investing courts of
bankruptcy with authority in equity and power to make orders
necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of that Act. P. 676.
8. Such an injunction does not infringe § .67 (d) of the Bankruptcy
Act, since it does not impair the liens of the pledgees but merely
suspends enforcement by sale of the collateral pending further
action. P. 676.
9. Such an injunction, applied to threatened sales of collateral under
contracts made before the enactment of § 77, is not such an impairment of contract obligations as violates the due process clause of
the Fifth Amendment. P. 680.
10. Such an injunction may be granted in a summary proceeding.
P. 681.
11. The contention that the note-holding creditors were not given
sufficient notice or a full opportunity to be heard in the present
case is without merit. P. 682.
12. A district court having jurisdiction of a reorganization proceeding under § 77, supra, may issue process for service outside of its
district. P. 682.
13. The power given the Redonstruction Finance Corporation, by
§ 5 of the Act creating it, to take. over and liquidate collateral
accepted by it as security, does not render it more immune than
other lenders to the control of the bankruptcy court, over the sale
of bonds pledged by railroads, in proceedings under § 77 of the
Bankruptcy Act. P. 684.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the Banks.

294 U. S.

14. Reorganization proceedings under § 77 must be diligently pursued; creditors must not be subjected to irreparable injury by
unreasonable suspension of their remedies. P. 684.
72 F. (2d) 443, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 550, to review decrees affirming
an interlocutory decree of the District Court, in bankruptcy, enjoining the sale of bonds held by five banks and
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation as security for
collateral notes of the above-named railway company.
Each of the parties enjoined, petitioners here, took two
appeals to the court below-one allowed by that court,
the other by the District Court.
Mr. Herbert A. Friedlich, of counsel for, Continental
Illinois National Bank & Trust Co., and Mr. Paul D.
Miller, of counsel for the Chase National Bank, argued
the cause for all five of the banks and trust companies.
These petitioners all united in one brief, from which the
following summary of points is taken. The appearances
on the brief were: Messrs. Isaac H. Mayer, Carl Meyer,
David F. Rosenthal, and Herbert A. Friedlich for the
Continental Illinois National Bank & Trust Co.; Messrs.
Henry Root Stern and Paul D. Miller for the Chase National Bank; Messrs. T. M. Pierce and S. Mayner Wallace
for the Mississippi Valley Trust Co.; Mr. Hal C. Bangs
for Harris Trust & Savings Bank; and Messrs. Edwin W.
Sims, Franklin J. Stransky, and James P. Carey, Jr., for
the New York Trust Co.
By § 77 (n), the jurisdiction of a bankruptcy court in a
proceeding under § 77 is the same as that of the court in
an ordinary bankruptcy proceeding, unless such jurisdiction is inconsistent with § 77.
A bankruptcy court is without jurisdiction in an ordinary
bankruptcy proceeding to restrain a pledgee from exercising his contract right to sell collateral validly pledged to
him by the bar.krupt, even though the pledged collateral

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 651
648

Argument for the Banks.

consists of secured obligations of the bankrupt. This
want of jurisdiction exists because (a) the Bankruptcy
Act expressly preserves the rights of the pledgee, and (b)
a bankrtiptcy court has no jurisdiction (save in specified
cases not here material) to deal with property not in the
actual or constructive possession of the bankrupt.
Section 77 does not confer upon a bankruptcy court
proceeding under that section jurisdiction to issue such a
restraining order, since there is nothing in that section
which negatives either of the two bases of the rule that a
bankruptcy court is without authority to issue such a
restraining order in an ordinary bankruptcy proceeding.
In fact, various provisions of § 77, as well as its legislative
history, show clearly that Congress intended that the
court should not possess authority to issue such a restraining order.
Section 2 (15) of the Bankruptcy Act, which provides
generally that the court may issue such orders as may
be necessary for enforcing the Act, is in no sense a source
of jurisdiction, and confers no greater powers in the
matter of enjoining sales of pledged collateral upon a
court proceeding under § 77 than it has in the past been
construed to confer upon a bankruptcy court in an ordinary *voluntaryproceeding.
If, as petitioners contend, the District Court was without jurisdiction to issue the injunction, a consideration
of the effect, if any, of a sale of the pledged collateral
upon a plan of reorganization is irrelevant. Petitioners
contend, however, that there was no evidence before the
District Court which sustains its conclusion that the injunction was "necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of § 77."
As construed and applied by th'e courts below, § 77 violates the Fifth Amendment by depriving petitioners of a
substantial and preexisting vested right, i. e., the right
to sell the pledged collateral, upon default, at such time

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the R. F. C.

294 U.S.

as they may select. Even if the injunction be held to
affect merely petitioners' remedy, it was an unreasonable
and arbitrary modification and postponement of such
remedy, in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
The decision of the court below (which is predicated
on a theory applicable to § 77-B of the Bankruptcy Act;
as well as to § 77) overturns a rule of bankruptcy law
upon the basis-of which, in part at least, literally hundreds of millions of dollars of now outstanding short-term
collateral loans were made. The hazard of having shortterm liquid loans converted into frozen loans for an indefinite period will inevitably tend sharply to restrict
credit, contrary to one of the underlying purposes of § 77,
and at a time when Congress and the Administration are
endeavoring to accomplish the opposite result.
The territorial limits imposed by Congress upon District Courts apply to courts of-bankruptcy. An injunction, operating in personam, can be supported only by
jurisdiction over the persons enjoined, and the District
Court had no jurisdiction over those petitioners which
were not parties to the proceeding and which were neither
residents of nor present within the Northern District of
Illinois. The "exclusive jurisdiction" over the "debtor
and its property wherever located" conferred upon the
court by § 77 (a) is the samre as that possessed by a bankruptcy court in an ordinary bankruptcy proceeding. Section 77 does not extend either the territorial limits of the
court or the court's jurisdiction in personam over nonresidents.
Messrs. A. A. Berle, Jr., and Cassius M. Clay, with
whom Solicitor General Biggs and Mr. Stanley Reed were
on the brief, for the Reconstruction Finance Corp., petitioner in Nos. 489 and 490.
The express provisions of § 77 negative the implication
of the power to grant the order either in a summary or a

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 653
648

Argument for the R. F. C.

plenary proceeding, where the sale of the collateral (as
here) is permitted by the terms of the pledge agreement
and does not require judicial proceedings. The petition on
which the order was granted is insufficient as a bill in a
plenary suit. If a summary proceeding would lie, the affidavit filed with the petition does not properly allege anything in support thereof.
In ordinary bankruptcy proceedings, the law has been
well settled for many years that the court may not, under
any provision of the Bankruptcy Act here applicable, enjoin the sale, either of the obligations of other companies,
which constitute the bulk of the collateral held by this
petitioner, or of the $7,575,000 face amount of the debtor's
own obligations, likewise comprised in its collateral.
The common-law right involved, recognized both in
bankruptcy and in equity receiverships, is not impaired
by the enactment of § 77, subdivision (n) of which provides that, in proceedings thereunder and consistent with
the provisions thereof, the rights and liabilities of creditors shall be the same as in ordinary bankruptcy proceedings. Furthermore, subdivision (1) of § 77, which authorizes the court to stay" the commencement or continuance of any judicial proceeding to enforce any lien upon
the estate" of the debtor, by expressly authorizing the
court to stay only judicial proceedings, negatives the intent that the tale of collateral may be enjoined, when sold
under a power of sale contained in the pledge agrement
and without the aid of judicial proceedings. This construction alone gives effect to the words "commencement
or continuance of any judicial proceeding." There is no
other provision of § -77 which in any way confers upon
the court the power to issue injunctions. It should also
be noted that subdivision (1) of § 77' is applicable only
to judicial proceedings to enforce "any lien." A pledgee
of negotiable securities has a greater interest therein than
a mere lien. That the rule in ordinary bankruptcy has

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for the R. F. C.

294 U. S.

not been changed by the enactment of § 77 is strengthened
by the construction which several courts have placed upon
a similar provision of § 74 and by the legislative history
of both enactments. Authority for the injunction is not
granted by subclause 15 of § 2 of the Bankruptcy Act, the
so-called "omnibus clause," for, as this Court has held,
subclause 15 of § 2 must be construed with regard for the
express provisions of the Bankruptcy Act which are applicable to this case. Subclause 15 of § 2 has never in the
past been construed to authorize a bankruptcy court to
enjoin the sale of pledged collateral.
Regardless of these considerations, § 77 must be construed with § 5 of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act (under the authority of which the loans from
this petitioner involved in this case were made), which
expressly empowers the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to take over and liquidate collateral accepted by it as
security for such loans. The express provisions of § 5 of
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act are controlling in this case, if they are to be given any practical
effect, consistent with the underlying purposes of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
Patently, this is not a case of a reconciliation of an
earlier statute with a later enactment containing inconsistent provisions. This Court should not permit a derivation of power from subclause 15 of § 2 of the Bankruptcy Act, couched in general language, to prevail over
a power expressly granted by Congress under § 5 of the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act.
The economic policy of financing railroads by shortterm loans secured by pledge was recognized by the Congress in the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act, and
given specialized administrative control by the Interstate
Commerce Commission; that policy should not be called
into question as is done by the construction placed upon
§ 77 by the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals.

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 655
648

Argument for the R. F. C.

Affirmance of that decision would endanger normal commercial processes. Uneconomic corporate holdings will
tend to be perpetuated.
The supposed distinction between interruption of a
remedy and. impairment of a right is meaningless in this
case. Since the injunction is based upon the assumption
.that it is necessary until a plan of reorganization for the
debtor can be effected, the contractual right is invaded
without substituting an equally efficient and adequate
remedy.
The Congress, through the Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act, elected to follow the policy during the existing emergency of financing railroads by short-term collateral loans from this petitioner. Each transaction is
controlled by the Interstate Commerce Commission as
guardian of the soundness of the financial policy involved.
This amounts to a congressional determination of policy
which should not be overriden by a strained statutory
construction.
The findings of the District Court that sale of the collateral would in effect prevent the debtor's reorganization
and that "it is necessary to the enforcement of the provisions of § 77" that the sale of said collateral be enjoined
"pending the preparation and consummation of a reorganization plan" are mere assumptions and nothing more.
Under- the express provisions of § 77, the noteholder is
entitled both to vote on his note and in the various classes
of creditors in which the collateral falls; hence, there can
be no such shifting of classes of creditors or changes in the
size of the various classes of creditors as will prevent the
preparation and effectuation of a plan. In any reorganization of the debtor the secured obligations of other companies comprised in this petitioner's collateral must be
treated as outstanding, as they would have to be if they
were still held in the treasury of the debtor. The validity
of the pledge in this case is not questioned. To deny to

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

the pledgee holding collateral the benefit of his contract
-is to give other creditors of the debtor, and the debtor
himself, an advantage for which they have not bargained.
The assumption that the injunction is necessary for the
effectuation of a plan is entirely unsupported. No necessity has been shown.
On the contrary, the power to sell collateral, instead of
tending to prevent the consummation of a plan, will in
practice expedite it.
The present injunction purports to be a final disposition
of the issue until a plan of reorganization under § 77 can
be effected. As a matter of fact, there is no plan proposed
by any of the interested parties. Unless this Court now
affords the relief to which this petitioner is entitled, the
latter can have no assurance that it will not suffer irreparable injury.
Mr. Elihu Root, Jr., with whom Messrs. George W.
Wickersham, Edward C. Bailly, Wilkie Bushby, Joseph
Schreiber, W. Lloyd Kitchel, and Eugene J. Conroy were
on the brief, for the Bondholders Protective Committees,
respondents.
Mr. Edward W. Bourne, with whom Messrs. James H.
McIntosh and Clifton P. Williamson were on the brief,
for the Protective Committee for the Chicago, R. I. & P.
Ry. Co. General Mortgage Bonds, respondent.
Mr. Marcus L. Bell, with whom Messrs. W. F. Dickinson
and W. F. Peter were on the brief, for the Trustees in
Bankruptcy, respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On June 7, 1933,, The Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Railway Co. filed a petition seeking a reorganization under

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 657
648

Opinion of the Court.

§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, in the federal District Court
for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division,
alleging that it was "unable to meet its debts as they
mature." Nine of the debtor's subsidiaries thereafter
joined in the proceedings as permitted by subdivision (a)
of the section. On September 26, 1933, the debtor filed a
petition for instructions which alleged that it had outstanding collateral notes secured by mortgage bonds, part
of which were issued by it, part by corporations forming a
part of the system; that it had been unable to pay interest
on its funded debt secured by mortgage liens on various
portions of its property; that it would be obliged to default on interest about to become due on other mortgage
bonds of the system; that the value of the collateral securing each of the outstanding notes is substantially in
excess of the loan thereby secured; that if holders of the
notes should sell the collateral it would cause a substantial
and irreparable loss to the trust estate; and that a forced
sale of the collateral at the present time might result in a
substantial deficiency judgment against the debtor and
the depletion of the respective interests in the trust estate
of all creditors in proportion to the rank and lien of
the obligations by which their claims or interests therein
are evidenced. The petition prayed that the court determine whether it should enjoin the holders of the collateral
notes, in the event of a default, from selling any of the
collateral.
Practically all of the collateral held by the banks and
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation consists of bonds
of the debtor and its subsidiaries.- These bonds are secured by mortgages on the property of the system; and
the collateral, therefore, constitutes fractional interests
in the liens created thereby. The collateral pledged to
the banks consists of bonds of the Rock Island or of bonds
(guaranteed by the debtor) of one of the subsidiary corporations, wholly owned and operated under lease by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

debtor. Six of the collateral notes, aggregating $13,659,
877.58, are held by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and are secured by collateral of the face value of
$41,702,465.85.1 The remaining notes, aggregating $4,125,000 in amount, and secured by collateral of the face
'The collateral pledged with the notes held by the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation consists of the following securities:
Listed Collateral:
The Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway
Company First and Refunding 4% Gold
Bonds ...................................
$7, 575,000.00
St. Paul and Kansas City Short Line Railroad
Company First Mortgage 4Y2% Gold Bonds..
9, 374, 500.00
Rock Island, Arkansas and Louisiana Railroad
. Company First Mortgage 4 % Gold Bonds..
3,862,000.00
Total .................................. $20,811,500.00

Unlisted Collateral:
The Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway
Company Extension First Mortgage 5%
Bonds ...................................
The Chicago, Rock Island and Gulf Railway
Company Carrollton Branch 6% Bonds ......
Kankakee & Senaca Railroad Company 4 %
Bonds ...................................
Rock Island and Dardanelle Railway Company
First Mortgage 5% Bonds .................
Rock Island Memphis Terminal Depot First
Mortgage 5% Bonds .......................
Rock Island Memphis Terminal First Mortgage
5% Bonds ..............................
Rock Island Omaha Terminal First Mortgage
.5% Bonds ...... I..........................
Rock Island Improvement Company:
Blue -Island Shops Bonds ..................
Cedar Rapids Terminal Bonds ..............
Little Rock Mortgage Bonds ...............
Peoria Terminal Mortgage Bonds ...........
First and Collateral 5% Bonds ...............

$6,927,000.00
331,000.00
352, 000.00
100,000.00
900,000.00
400, 000.00
906,000.00
199,000.00
369,732.99
278,492.49
.290, 247.86
3,310,000.00

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 659
Opinion of the Court.

value of $14,409,000,2 are held severally by five banksThe Chase National Bank and the New York Trust Company, of New York City, the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company and Harris Trust and
Unlisted Collateral-Continued.
Trinity & Brazos Valley Receiver's Certificates.
Trinity & Brazos Valley First Mortgage Bonds
(now pledged under Colorado & Southern
Mortgage; C. R. I. & P. has agreed to
pledge them with Reconstruction Finance
Corporation upon release from that Mortgage May 1, 1935) ........................
Total ..................................

$747,492.51

4,380,000.00
$19, 490,965.85

Assignment of Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Railway Company's distributive share in assets of Railroad Credit Corporation, approximately ...................................

1,400, 000.00

'The notes held by the five banks and the collateral securing the
same are as follows:
Collateral
Amount
of loan

Chase National Bank --------------------------$2, 000,000
Continental Illinois Bank and Trust Co -------1,20, 000
New York Trust Co. -------------------------5 000
Harris Trust & Savings Bank -------------------250,000
Mississippi Valley Trust Company --------------125,00.
4,125,000

St. Paul &
C. R. 1.& P. Kansas City
Refunding
Short Line
4%bonds
4 % Gold
Bonds
$3,25, 0O0
1,307,000
800, 000
405, 00
190,000

$3,956,000
, 75K 000
1,010,00
490,000
240,000

5,955,000

8,454, 000

The $4,125,000 was reduced to $3,866,923.34 by application of
Debtors' deposits in the Continental and Mississippi Valley banks.
The St. Paul and Kansas City Short Line 42%. Gold Bonds are
mortgage bonds of a corporation whose capital stock is owned by
the Debtor; and they are guaranteed principal and interest by it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Savings Bank, of Chicago, and Mississippi Valley Trust
Company, of St. Louis. Each of the collateral notes contains a provision that it shall become due in case of,
among other events, (1) non-payment of interest, (2) insolvency of the debtor, (3) appointment of a receiver for
the debtor. Each note held by a bank provides also that
it shall become due in case of non-payment of interest on
any of the notes held by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. And all the outstanding notes provide that:
"Upon default of any kind hereunder, the payee may
sell in... New York City, or elsewhere... all or any of
the security held for the payment of this note, at any
'broker's board or at public or private sale, without . . .
notice... And the payee may be the purchaser of any
or all property, rights and/or interests so sold. . ....
None of the noteholders was a party to the proceeding.
No noteholder was ever served with process; and only
the two Chicago banks were residents of the district.
But notice of the intention to present the petition for instructions had been sent by registered mail to each of the
noteholders, and also to the five protective committees
representing security holders of the system. All of these
parties were represented at the hearing. The holders of
the collateral notes appeared specially, and objected to
the jurisdiction of the court on the ground that (1) it had
no jurisdiction of the person; (2) no jurisdiction over, or
possession of, the property, the sale of which was about to
'Protective Committee for The Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific
Railway General Mortgage 4% Bonds; Protective Committee for
The Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway First and Refunding
4% Gold Bonds and Secured 4%% Gold Bonds Series A; Protective
Committee for the St. Paul & Kansas City Short Line 4 % Gold
Bonds and Rock Island, Arkansas and Louisiana 4%A,% Gold Bonds;
Prbtective Committee of the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern
Consolidated 5% Gold Bonds; Protective Committee for the Chicago,
Rock Island & Pacific Railway, 30-year 4 % Convertible Bonds.

CONTINENTAL BANK v: ROCK ISLAND RY. 661
648

Opinion of the Court.

be restrained; and (3) no jurisdiction to grant in a summary proceeding the injunction suggested; but it was
stipulated that the noteholders might present argument
and file briefs on the merits without waiving their-special
appearances. The Chairman of the Protective Committee of the First and Refunding Bonds of the Debtor, set
forth the facts relied upon as showing that unless the sale
of the collateral was enjoined, it would be impossible to
prepare; and secure approval of, a plan of reorganization.
All of the appellants contend that the injunction entered,
as hereinafter stated, was without legal justification.
Only the banks renew here the challenge to the jurisdiction of the court to make the order in this proceeding.
The Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific system comprises
over 8,000 miles of line, extending into more than onefourth of the states of the Union, and into 20 federal
judicial districts. At the commencement of this reorganization proceeding, its capitalization outstanding in the
hands of the public was $459,059,808. Of this, $128,909,211 was in-preferred and common stocks; $312,365,720
in bonded indebtedness; and $17,784,877 in the collateral
notes here in question. In addition to the. above, there
were pledged as security for some issues of its funded debt
bonds and stocks of the system aggregating $145,749,050;
and as security for the. collateral notes, the bonds and
stocks above mentioned, aggregating $54,711,465. If,
pending the reorganization, trustees for the bondholders
and these noteholders should sell the pledged securities,
the capitalization outstanding in the hands of the public
would to that extent be expanded; and the aggregate
capitalization might thereby become as much as
$659,520,323.
. By the Act of March 3, 1933, c. 204, 47 Stat. 1467,
original jurisdiction, in addition to that theretofore exercised in voluntary and involuntary proceedings to adjudge
persons bankript,. was conferred upon courts of bank-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

ruptcy "in proceedings for the relief of debtors," as provided in §§ 74, 75 and 77 of the act. We are here concerned only with § 77. That section contains provisions
for. the reorganization of railroads engaged in interstate
commerce. It permits any railroad corporation which is
insolvent or unable to meet its debts as they mature to
effect a plan of reorganization.
It provides for the filing of a petition by the railroad
corporation in a court designated by the act. If the petition be approved, the court, during the pendency of the
proceedings, is given exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor
and its property wherever located. The act requires that
the railroad corporation shall be referred to in the proceedings as a "debtor,". and permits any corporation, the
majority of the capital stock of which is owned, or substantially all of whose properties are operated, by the
debtor under lease or operating agreement, also to file
a petition in the same proceeding stating that it is insolvent 'or unable to meet its debts as they mature and that
it desires to effect a plan of reorganization' in connection
with the plan of the original debtor.
Other provisions of the section direct that a plan of
reorganization shall include a proposal to modify or, alter
the rights of creditors generally or of any class of them,
secured or unsecured, either through the issuance of -new
securities or otherwise; that it shall provide adequate
means for its execution; that the term "creditor" includes "all holders of claims, interests, or securities of
whatever character against the debtor or its property ";
and that, if the plan is not proposed or accepted or confirmed within a reasonable time to be fixed by the judge,
he may dismiss the proceeding.
Before acceptance of any plan, the Interstate Commerce Commission is directed to hold a public hearing,
following which it shall render a report recommending a
plan which "will, in its opinion, be equitable, will not

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 663
648

Opinion of the Court.

discriminate unfairly in favor of any class of creditors or
stockholders, will be financially advisable . . .and will
be compatible with the public interest." The commission
is required to state fully the reasons for its conclusions.
The plan is then to be submitted to the creditors and
stockholders of the debtor for acceptance or rejection.
No plan may be finally approved by the commission until
it has been accepted in writing by or on behalf of creditors holding two-thirds in amount of the claims, of each
class affected by the plan, and by or on behalf of stockholders holding two-thirds of the stock of each class.
Upon approval by the commission, the judge, after
hearing, shall confirm the plan if satisfied, among other
things, that the plan affords adequate protection for the
realization by creditors of the value of their securities,
liens and claims in one of the ways pointed out by the
section. Upon confirmation of the plan, it is to be binding
not only upon corporation and all stockholders and creditors generally, but upon all secured creditors of each class
of which two-thirds in amount shall have accepted the
plan. For convenient reference, various pertinent excerpts from § 77 are reproduced in the margin.4
4

(a) Any railroad corporation may file a petition stating that the
railroad corporation is insolvent or unable to meet its debts as they
mature and that it desires to effect a plan of reorganization. The
petition shall be filed with the court in whose territorial jurisdiction the railroad corporation, during the preceding six months or the
greater portion thereof, has had its principal executive or operating
office, and a copy of the petition shall at the same time be filed with
the Interstate Commerce Commission hereinafter called the commission: . . . If the petition is so approved, the court in which such
order approving the petition is entered slaill, during the pendency
of the proceedings under this section anl for the purposes thereof,
have exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its property wherever
located. The. railroad corporation slmll he referred to in the proceedings as a " debtor." Any corporation, the majority of the capital
stock of which hving power to vote for the election of directors is
owned, either directly or indirectly through an intervening medimn,

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

On November 22, 1933, the district court, after a hearing, entered an order reciting that each of the collateral
notes contained provisions that, in case of the insolvency
by any railroad corporation filing a petition as a debtor under this
section, or substantially all of whose properties are operated by such
a debtor under lease or operating agreement may file, with the court
in which such other debtor had filed such a petition, and in the proceeding upon such petition under this section, a petition stating that
it is insolvent or unable to meet its debts as they mature and that
it desires to effect a plan of reorganization in connection with, or as
a part of, the plan of reorganization of such other debtor; and thereupon such court shall have the same jurisdiction with respect to it,
its property and its creditors and stockholders as the court has with
respect to such other debtor ...
(b) A plan of reorganization within the meaning of this section
(1) shall include a proposal to modify or alter the rights of creditors
generally, or of any class of them, secured or unsecured, either through
the issuance of new securities of any character or otherwise; . . .
(3) shall provide adequate means for the execution of the plan,
which may, so far as may be consistent with the provisions of sections 1 and 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended, include
the transfer or conveyance of all or any part of the property of the
debtor to another corporation or to other corporations or the consolidation of the properties of the debtor with those of another railroad corporation, or the merger of the debtor with any other railroad
corporation and the issuance of securities of either the debtor or any
such corporation or corporations, for cash, or in exchange for existing securities, or in satisfaction of claims or rights, or for other
appropriate purposes; . . . The term "creditors " shall, except as
otherwise specifically provided in this section, iiclude, for all purposes of this section and of the reorganization plan, its acceptance
and confirmation, all holders of claims, interests, or securities of
whatever character against the debtor or its property, . . .
(c) Upon approving the petition as properly filed the judge . . .
(7) if a plan of reorganization is not proposed or accepted, or, if
proposed and accepted, is not confirmed, within such reasonable time
as the judge may, upon cause shown and after considering any
recommendation which has been filed by the commission, allow, may
dismiss the proceeding; . . .
(d) Before creditors and stoclholders of the debtor are asked
finally to accept any plan of reorganization, the Interstate Corn-

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 665
648

Opinion of the Court.

of the railway company or the appointment of a receiver
or the non-payment of interest when due, the holder thereof might sell and dispose of the collateral; that there was
merce Commission shall after due notice hold a public hearing at
which the debtor shall present its plan of reorganization and at
which, also, such a plan may be presented by the trustee or trustees,
or by or on behalf of creditors of the debtor, being not less than
10 per centum in amount of any class of creditors. Following such
hearing, the commission shall render a report in which it shall recommend a plan of reorganization (which may be different from any
which has been proposed) that will, in its opinion, be equitable, will
not discriminate unfairly in favor of any class of creditors or stockholders, will be financially advisable, will meet with the requirements
of subdivision (g) of this section, and will be compatible with the
public interest. In such report the commission shall state fully the
reasons for its conclusions, . . . Thereafter the plan of reorganization recommended by the commission shall be submitted in such manner as the commission may direct to the creditors and stockholders
of the debtor for acceptance or rejection, together with the report
or report, of the commission thereon; . . .
(e) A plan of reorganization shall not be finally approved by the
commission until it has been accepted in writing and such acceptance
has been filed in the proceeding by or on behalf of creditors holding
two-thirds in amount of the claims of each 'class whose claims or
interests would be affected by the plan, and by or on behalf of stockholders of the debtor holding two-thirds of the stock of each class:
Provided, however, That if adequate provision is made in the plan
for the protection of the interests, claims, and liens of any class of
creditors or stockholders in the manner provided in clauses (5) and
(6) of subdivision (g) of this section, then the acceptance of the plan
by such class of creditors or stockholders shall not be requisite to the
approval of the plan; . . .
(g) Upon such approval by the commission, and after hearing such
objections as may be made to the approved plan, the judge shall confirm the plan if satisfied that . . . (6) the plan provides with respect
to any class of creditors the acceptance of which is requisite to the
confirmation of the plan, and who would not become bound Lj the
plan under the provisions of subdivision (h) of this section, adequate
protection for the realization by them of the value of their securities,
liens, and claims, either (a) by the sale of such property subject to
their liens, if any, or (b by the sale free ol such liens at not less than

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

danger that the holders would claim that one or more of
the events entitling them to sell such collateral had occurred; that a sale of the collateral or any part thereof
by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation or by the
banks would be inconsistent with the purposes of § 77
and would hinder, impede, obstruct, delay, and, in effect,
prevent the orderly preparation and consummation of a
plan of reorganization; that the district court, under § 77,
had exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its property
wherever located; that under paragraph 15 of § 2 of the
Bankruptcy Act, the court had power to make such orders,
issue such process and enter such judgments as might be
necessary for the enforcement of the act; and that it was
a fair upset price, and the transfer of such liens to the proceeds of
such sale, or (c) by appraisal and payment in cash of either the value
of such liens and claims or, at the objecting creditors' election, the
value of the securities allotted to such liens and claims under the plan.
Section 57, clause (h), of this Act shall be applicable to the appraisal
of securities under this section, and the value of the unpaid balance
shall be appraised as an unsecured claim; . . .
(h) Upon such confirmation the provisions of the plan shall be
binding upon . . . (7) all secured creditors of each class of which twothirds in amount shall have accepted the plan ...
(1) In addition to the provisions of section 11 of this Act for the
staying of pending suits against the debtor, such suits shall be further
stayed until after final decree [and] the judge may, upon notice and
for cause shown, enjoin or stay the commencement or continuance of
any judicial proceeding to enforce any lien upon the estate until after
final decree.
(n) In proceedings under this section and consistent with the provisions thereof, the jurisdiction and powers of the court, the duties of
the debtor and the rights and liabilities of creditors, and of all persons with respect to the debtor and his property, shall be the same as
if a voluntary petition for adjudication had been filed and a decree of
adjudication had been entered on the day when the debtor's petition
was filed.

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 667
648

Opinion of the Court.

necessary for the enforcement of § 77 that the holders of
the collateral be enjoined and restrained from selling or
disposing of the same pending the preparation and consummation of a reorganization plan. Following these
recitals, the Reconstruction Finance Corporation: and -the
banks were restrained and enjoined from converting, selling or otherwise disposing of the collateral or any part
thereof until further order of the court.
An appeal followed to the circuit court of appeals where.
upon full consideration, the decree of the district court
was affirmed. 72 F. (2d) 443. The case was brought
here on certiorari.
The questions which we are called upon to determine
relate to the construction of § 77 in certain particulars; to
its constitutionality; and to the powers of the district
court which were here asserted and exercised.
First. The constitutional validity of the section in its
general scope and application is not assailed, the subject
being passed without discussion by any of the parties.
Nevertheless, grave doubt has been expressed in respect
of that question; and since the question is inherently
fundamental, we deem it necessary to consider and dispose of it in limine-postponing, however, for later consideration the limited contention of the banks, in which
the Reconstruction' Finance Corporation seems not to
join, that the due process clause of the Constitution is
infringed by the special application made of § 77 in respect
of the injunction.
Article I, § 8, cl. 4, of the Federal Constitution vests
Congress with the power "to establish . . . uniform laws
on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United
States "; and the simple question is-does § 77 constitute
a law on the subject of bankruptcies? While attempts
have been made to formulate a distinction between bankruptcy and insolvency, it long has been settled that,

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

within the meaning of the constitutional provision, the
terms are convertible. As early as 1833, Mr. Justice Story
said that whatever might have been the rule of the English law on the subject, Congress might pass a xt authorizing a commission of bankruptcy at the petition of
the debtor; and that no distinction, practically or even
theoretically, could be made between bankruptcies and
insolvencies. 2 Story on the Constitution, 4th ed., § 1111.
From the beginning, the tendency of legislation and of
judicial interpretation has been uniformly in the direction
of progressive liberalization in respect of the operation of
the bankruptcy power.
The English law of bankruptcy, as it existed at the
time of the adoption of the Constitution, was conceived
wholly in the interest of the creditor and proceeded upon
the assumption that the debtor was necessarily to be dealt
with as an offender. Anything in the nature of voluntary bankruptcy was unknown to that system. The persons who were permitted to fall within the term "bankrupt" were limited to traders. But the notion that the
framers of the Constitution, by the bankruptcy clause,
intended to limit the power of Congress to the then-existing English law and practice upon the subject long since
has been dispelled.
In Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, this court held that
the grant extending the judicial power to all cases of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction was not limited to,
and was not to be interpreted by, what were cases of admiralty jurisdiction in England when the Constitution
was adopted.. Nor is the implied power of Congress over
the subject arising from that jurisdictional clause and the
general coefficient clause (Art. I, § 8, par. 18) of the
Constitution to be thus confined. Detroit Trust Co. v.
The Baelum, 293 U. S. 21, 42-43; PanamaR. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 385-387.

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 669
648

Opinion of the Court.

The same, it was said in the Waring case, is true in
respect of other grants of power; and the bankruptcy
clause was cited, p. 458, as an example. In the Matter of
Edward Klein, decided by Mr. Justice Catron sitting or
circuit, and-printed in 1 How. 277, it was definitely decided
that the extent of the power of Congress was not limited
to the principle upon which the English bankruptcy sys'tem was founded; and that decision was cited with approval by this court in Hanover National Bank v. Moyses,
186 U. S. 181, 186. Whether a clause in the Constitution
is to be restricted by the rules of the English law as they
existed when the Constitution was adopted depends upon
the terms or the nature of the particular clause in question. Certainly, these rules have no such restrictive effect
in respect of any constitutional grant of governmental
power (Waring v. Clarke, supra), though they do, at least
in some instances, operate restrictively in respect of
clauses of the Constitution which guarantee and safeguard
the fundamental rights and liberties of the individual, the
best examples of which, perhaps, are the Sixth and
Seventh Amendments, which guarantee 'heright of trial
by jury. That guaranty has always been construed to
mean a trial in the mode and according to the settled rules
of the common law, including all the essential elements
recognized in this country and England when the Constitution was adopted. Patton v. United States, 281 U. S.
276, 288, and cases cited. See, also, Callan v. Wilson, 127
U. S.540, 549; Dimick v. Schiedt, 293 U. S.474, 476, 487;
West v. Gammon, 98 Fed. 426.
But, while it is true that the power of Congress under
the bankruptcy clause is not to be limited by the English
or Colonial law in force when the Constitution was
adopted, it does not follow that the power has no limitations. Those limitations have never been explicitly defined, and any attempt to do so now would result in little

670

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

more than a paraphrase of the language of the Constitution without advancing far toward its full meaning.
Judge Cowen, in Kunzler v. Kohaus, 5 Hill 317, 321, a
decision which was approved by this court in Hanover
National Bank v. Moyses, supra, said that the power was
the same as though Congress had been authorized "to
establish uniform laws on the subject of any person's general inability to pay his debts ..." Probably the most
satisfactory approach to the problem of interpretation
here involved is to examine it in the light of the acts, and
the history of the acts, of Congress which have from time
to time been passed on the subject; for, like many other
provisions of the Constitution, the nature of this power
and the extent of it can best be fixed by the gradual process of historical and judicial "inclusion and exclusion."
Compare Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104;
Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., 283 U. S. 643, 648.
The first act, that. of 1800, so far ignored the English
law, which was confined to traders, as to include bankers,
brokers and underwriters as well. The act of 1841 added
merchants; and other additions have been made by later
acts until now practically all classes of persons and corporations are included. See Friday v. Hall & Kaul Co.,
216 U. S. 449, 454. The act of 1g0 0 was one exclusively
in the interest of the creditor. But the act of 1841 took
what then must have been regarded as a radical step forward by conferring upon the debtor the right by voluntary
petition to surrender his property, with some- exceptions,
and relieve himself of all future liability in respect of past
debts. The act of 1800, like the English law, was conceived in the view that the bankrupt was dishonest; while
the act of 1841 and the later acts proceeded upon the -assumption that he might be honest but unfortunate. One
of the primary purposes of these acts was to "relieve the
honest debtor from the weight of oppressive indebtedness
and permit him to start afresh free from the obligations

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 671
648

Opinion of the Court.

and responsibilities consequent upon business misfortunes," and to give him "a new opportunity in life and a
clear field for future effort, unhampered by the pressure
and discouragement of preexisting debt." Local Loan
Co. v. Hunt, 292 U. S. 234, 244.
By the act of 1867, as amended by the act of 1874, c.
390, § 17, 18 Stat. 178, 182, the debtor for the first time
was permitted either before or after an adjudication in
bankruptcy, to propose terms of composition to his creditors to become binding upon their acceptance by a designated majority and confirmation by the judge.
The fundamental and radically progressive nature of
these extensions becomes apparent upon their mere statement; but all have been judicially approved or accepted
as falling within the power conferred by the bankruptcy
clause of the Constitution. Taken altogether, they demonstrate in a very striking way the capacity of the bankruptcy clause to meet new conditions as they have been
disclosed as a result of the tremendous growth of business
and development of human activities from 1800 to the
present day. And these acts, far-reaching though they
be, have not gone beyond the limit of congressional
power; but rather have constituted extensions into a field
whose boundaries may not yet be fully revealed.
Section 77 advances another step in the direction of
liberalizing the law on the subject of bankruptcies. Railway corporations had been definitely excluded from the
operation of the law in 1910 (c. 412, § 4, 36 Stat. 838, 839),
probably because such corporations could not be liquidated in the ordinary way or by a distribution of assets.
A railway is a unit; it can not be divided up and disposed
of piecemeal like a stock of goods. It must be sold, if
sold at all, as a unit and as a going concern. Its activities can not be halted because its continuous, uninterrupted operation is necessary in the public interest; and,
for the preservation of that interest, as well as for the pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

tection of the various private interests involved, reorganization was evidently regarded as the most feasible solution
whenever the corporation had become "insolvent or unable to meet its debts as they mature."
Equity receiverships, resorted to for that purpose, have
never been satisfactory, for many reasons. Partly, no
doubt, in recognition of that situation, Congress, by § 77,
added railroad corporations to the category of those who
might have relief by legislation passed in virtue of the
bankruptcy clause of the Constitution; and determined,
after consideration, that such relief to be effectual should
take the form of a reorganization, and should extend to
cases where the corporation is" unable to meet its debts as
they mature." The last phrase, since it is used as an
alternative for the word " insolvent," obviously means
something less than a condition of " bankruptcy" or
" insolvency" as those words are employed in the law.
Sec Bankruptcy Act, § 1 (15), which defines an "insolvent " as one whose assets, at a fair valuation, are not
sufficient to pay his debts. It may be construed to in-elude a debtor who, although unable to pay promptly,
may be abler to pay if time to do so be sufficiently
extended. Obviously, § 77 does no more than follow
the line of historical-and progressive development projected by previous acts.
As outlined by that section, a plan of reorganization,
when confirmed, cannot be distinguished in principle from
the composition with creditors authorized by the act of
1867, as amended by the act of 1874. It is not necessary
to the validity of either that the proceeding should result
in an adjudication of bankruptcy. The constitutionality
of the old provision for a composition is not open to
doubt. In re Reiman, 20 Fed. Cas. 490, 496-497, cited
with approval in Hanover National Bank v. Moyses,
supra. That provision was there sustained upon the
broad ground that the "subject of bankruptcies" was

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 673
648

Opinion of the Court.

nothing less than "the subject of the relations between
an insolvent or non-paying or fraudulent debtor, and his
creditors, extending to his and their relief." That it was
not necessary for the proceedings to be carried through in
bankruptcy was held not to warrant the objection that
the provision did not constitute a law on the subject of
bankruptcies. The same view sustains the validity of
§ 77. Both contemplate an adjustment of a failing debtor's obligations; and although actual bankruptcy may not
supervene in either, they are none the less laws on the
subject of bankruptcies. With due regard for consistency,
the constitutional validity of the one cannot well be sustained and that of the other denied, as this court quite
evidently recognized in CanadaSouthern Ry. Co. v. Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527.
That case involved an act of the Canadian Parliament
by which railway companies unable to meet their engagements might unite with their creditors in the preparation of "schemes of arrangement" to be filed in the
court of chancery. A scheme was deemed agreed to by
the holders of mortgages, bonds, stocks, rent charges and
preferred shares when assented to in writing by a designated majority of the holders of each class of security.
The scheme when confirmed by the court became binding
upon the non-assenting minority and this court held it to
be thus binding upon bondholders who were citizens of
the United States and who sued in courts of the United
States to recover on their bonds. The "scheme" of the
Canadian law was not unlike the "plan" of § 77. The
significant part of the court's opinion, so far as the question now under discussion is concerned, is the following,
which appears at p. 536:
"The confirmation and legalization of 'a scheme of
arrangement' under such circumstances is no more than is
done in bankruptcy when a' composition' agreement with
the bankrupt debtor, if assented to by the required ma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

jority of the creditors, is made binding on the non-assenting minority. In no just sense do such governmental
regulations deprive a person of his property without due
process of law. They simply require each individual to
so conduct himself for the general good as not unnecessarily to injure another. Bankrupt laws have been in
force in England for more than three centuries, and they
had their origin in the Roman law. The Constitution
expressly empowers the Congress of the United States to
establish such laws. Every member of a political community must necessarily part with some of the rights
which, as an individual not affected by his relation to
others, he might have retained. Such concessions make
up the consideration he gives for the obligation of the
body politic to protect him in life, liberty, and property.
Bankrupt laws, whatever may be the form they assume,
are of that character."
After pointing out that the Canadian law was in accordance with the policy of the English and Canadian
governments in dealing with embarrassed and insolvent
railway companies; that it took the place in England and
Canada of foreclosure sales in the United States " which
in general accomplish substantially the same result with
more expense and greater delay," the court added (p.
539):
".... It is in entire harmony with the spirit of bankrupt laws, the binding force of which, upon those who
are subject to the jurisdiction, is recognized by all civilized
nations. It is not in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States, which, although prohibiting States from
passing laws impairing the obligation of contracts, allows
Congress 'to establish . . . uniform laws on the subject
of bankruptcy throughout the United States.' Unless all
parties in interest, wherever they reside, can be bound by
the arrangement which it is sought to have legalized, the
scheme may fail."

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 675
648

Opinion of the Court.

It is unnecessary to consider the criticism, sometimes
made, that these excerpts are dicta merely, since we are
of opinion that they are sound in principle.
It follows, from what has now been said, that § 77, in
its general scope and aim, is within the power conferred
by the bankruptcy clause of the Constitution; and we so
hold.
Second. Under § 77 does the bankruptcy court have
authority to enjoin the sale'of the collateral here in question if a sale would so hinder, obstruct and delay the
preparation and consummation of a plan of reorganization as probably to prevent it? By § 2 of the Bankruptcy Act (U. S. C. Title 11, § 11), courts of bankruptcy
are invested "with such jurisdiction at law and in equity
as will enable them to exercise original jurisdiction in
bankruptcy proceedings." They are essentially courts of
equity, and their proceedings inherently proceedings in
equity, the words" at law" probably having been inserted
only with regard to clause (4) of § 2, which confers authority to arraign, try, and punish bankrupts and others
for violations of the act. Local Loan Co. v. Hunt, 292 U.
S.234, 240. Their adjudications and orders constitute in
all essential particulars decrees in equity. Idem, 241. The
power to issue an injunction when necessary to prevent
the defeat or impairment of its jurisdiction is, therefore,
inherent in a court of bankruptcy, as it is in a duly established court of equity. Section 262 of the Judicial Code,
which authorizes the United States courts " to issue all
writs not specifically provided for by statute, which may
be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions" recognizes and declares the principle. An example
of its application is found in Kline v. Burke Construction
Co., 260 U. S. 226, 229, where we held that a federal
court, having first acquired jurisdiction of the subject
matter, could enjoin the parties from proceeding in a state
court of concurrent jurisdiction "where the effect of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

action would be to defeat or impair the jurisdiction of the
federal court." An injunction may be issued in such circumstances for the purpose of protecting and preserving
the jurisdiction of the court " until the object of the
suit is accomplished and complete justice done between
the parties." Looney v. Eastern Texas R. Co., 247 U. S.
214, 221.
Moreover, by § 2 (15) of the Bankruptcy Act (U. S. C.,
Title 11, § 11), courts of bankruptcy are invested with
such authority in equity as will enable them to exercise
original jurisdiction in bankruptcy proceedings, including
the power to "make such orders, issue such process, and
enter such judgments in addition to those specifically r)rovided for as may be necessary for the enforcement of the
provisions of this act." It may be that in an ordinary
bankruptcy proceeding the issue of an injunction in the
circumstances here presented would not be sustained.
As to that it is not necessary to express an opinion. But
a proceeding under § 77 is not an ordinary proceeding in
bankruptcy. It is a special proceeding which seeks only
to bring about a reorganization, if a satisfactory plan to
that end can be devised. And to prevent the attainment
of that object is to defeat the very end the accomplishment of which was the sole aim of the section, and thereby
to render its provisions futile.
The bankruptcy court, in granting the injunction, was
well within its power, either as a virtual court of equity,
or under the broad provisions of § 2 (15) of the Bankruptcy Act or of § 262 of the Judicial Code.
The injunction does not infringe § 67 (d), U. S. C.
Title 11, § 107 (d). The substance of that provision is
that bona fide liens shall not be affected by anything contained in the Bankruptcy Act. The injunction here in
no way impairs the lien, or disturbs the preferred rank
of the pledgees. It does no more than suspend the enforcement of the lien by a sale of the collateral pending

CONTINENTAL BANK v. IOCK ISLAND RY. 677
648

Opinion of the, Court.

further action. It may be, as suggested, that during the
period of restraint the collateral will decline in value; but
the same may be said in respect of an injunction against
the sale of real estate upon foreclosure of a mortgage; and
such an injunction may issue in an ordinary proceeding in
bankruptcy. Straton v. New, 283 U. S. 318, 321, and
cases cited. A claim that injurious consequences will result to the pledgee or the mortgagee may not, of course,
be disregarded by the district court; but it presents a
question addressed not to the power of the court but to
its discretion-a matter not subject to the interference of
an appellate court unless such discretion be improvidently
exercised. So far as constitutional power is concerned,
there is no difference between an injunction restraining
the enforcement of a real-estate mortgage and one restraining the enforcement of a pledge by the sale of collateral security. Such differences as exist affect not the
power but the propriety of iis exercise-that is to say, the
discretion of the court. Such an injunction, as just indi-'
cated, is within the contemplation of § 77, and we need
not inquire whether it would be admissible under the act
in force prior to the adoption of that section. Compare
Straton v. New, supra. Nor does § 57 (h.), 11 U. S. C.
§ 93 (h), also invoked by petitioners, have any pertinent
application to the question under discussion in the light
of the provisions, purpose and aim of § 77.
Petitioners urge that the injunction is precluded by a
consideration of subdivision (1) of § 77, which confers
authority upon the court to enjoin or stay the commencement or continuance of any judicial proceeding to enforce
any lien upon the estate until after final decree. The
point made is that the granting of this express power to
enjoin judicial proceedings brought to enforce liens negatives the authority to stay the enforcement of liens by
non-judicial proceedings, in accordance with the maxim
expressio unius est exclusio alterius. But clause (15) of

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

§ 2 is still in the act; and it would be an unwarranted use
of the maxim, which is only an aid to construction, to
apply it in such a way as to work a destruction, pro tanto,
not only of that clause, but of § 262, Judicial Code, and of
the general principle upon which both are based.
Third. It is evident that the effect here wrought by the
menace of impending sales of the collateral would seriously embarrass and probably prevent the formulation
and consummation of a plan of reorganization. Both
courts below so found. The findings of the district court
are in the form of recitals in the order, but are nevertheless in substance and in effect findings of fact. The circuit
court of appeals approved these findings, and added that
without some control over the disposition of the collateral,
" the presentation of a satisfactory plan of reorganization
might as well be abandoned." These concurrent findings
of the two courts, as this court has often held, should be
accepted as conclusive unless clearly erroneous. United
States v. Commercial Credit Co., 286 U. S. 63, 67; Stuart
v. Hayden, 169 U. S. 1, 14; Dun v. Lumbermen's Credit
Assn., 209 U. S. 20, 23-24.
We are not impressed with the attempt of petitioners
to show that the record entirely fails to justify the conclusion of the courts below in that regard. It must be
borne in mind that, in addition to the collateral aggregating more than $54,000,000, held by petitioners, there was
outstanding additional collateral pledged as security in
the sum of over $145,000,000, bringing the total up to
approximately $200,000,000, a sum equal to nearly half of
the capital then issued and in the hands of the public.
At the time the injunction was applied for, there was
danger that the noteholders would claim that the right of
sale under the terms of the collateral notes had been
brought into existence; and with the pendency of the
reorganization proceedings and the suspension of the payment of interest, it well cannot be doubted that there also
was danger that the noteholders would proceed to exercise

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 679
648

Opinion of the Court.

their rights of sale under the collateral notes. Such action
on the part of these noteholders might well precipitate
similar action by other holders of pledged collateral.
It is necessary, under § 77, first to prepare a plan and
then to submit it, perhaps with other suggested plans,
to the Interstate Commerce Commission for consideration
and recommendation. The plan having been assented to
by two-thirds of each class of the stockholders and creditors and approved by the commission, must then,
and only then, be submitted for approval to the district
court. In the reorganization of a great railroad system
like that here concerned, these various steps call for a
degree of consideration and an. extent of detailed work
almost beyond the power of appreciation. The sale of
the collateral securities from time to time during the
progress of this consideration and work well might require
such changes of detail in the plan, entailing new and perhaps difficult reconcilements of views among many and
conflicting interests, as to force an abandonment of the
proceeding.
It must be apparent, if we consider only the impressive
facts set forth in the forepart of this opinion in respect
of the extensive operations of the railway company and
its subsidiaries, the extent, multiplicity and variety of
their obligations, the complicated nature of their capital
structure, the great volume of their securities held as collateral by many and widely-separated creditors, and other
circumstances, that without the maintenance of the status
quo for a reasonable length of time no satisfactory plan
could be worked out. The preparation of any plan the
important details of which could survive the changes in,
and the consequent fluctuation and disturbance of, the
financial structure, brought about by recurring sales of
collateral, would seem to be a practical impossibility.
Under all the circumstances, we are of opinion that the district court properly exercised its discretion in favor of
respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

Fourth. We find no substance in the contention of the
petitioning banks that § 77, as applied by the court below
to permit an injunction restraining the sale of the collateral, violates the Fifth Amendment. The basis of the
contention is that since, by the terms of the pledge, the
pledgors are empowered on default to sell the collateral
at such times as they may select, § 77, as thus applied,
deprives them of their property-that is to say, impairs
or destroys their contractual rights-without due process
of law.
The Constitution, as it many times has been pointed
out, does not in terms prohibit Congress from impairing
the obligation of contracts as it does the states. But as
far back as Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 388, it was said
that among other acts which Congress could not pass
without exceeding its authority was " a law that destroys
or impairs the lawful private contracts of citizens." The
broad reach of that statement has been restricted (Legal
Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457, 549-550); but the principle
which it includes has never been repudiated, although the
extent to which it may be carried has not been definitely
fixed. Speaking generally, it may be said that Congress,
while without power to impair the obligation of contracts
by laws acting directly and independently to that end,
undeniably, has authority to pass legislation pertinent to
any of the powers conferred by the Constitution, however
it may operate collaterally or incidentally to impair or
destroy the obligation of private contracts. Legal Tender
Cases, supra; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. 2. ottley,
219 U. S. 467, 480-482, 484; Highland v. Russell Car Co.,
279 U. S. 253, 261. And under the express power to pass
uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies, the legislation is valid though drawn with the direct aim and effect
of relieving insolvent persons in whole or in part from
the payment of their debts. See Hanover National Bank
v. Moyses, supra, at p. 188. So much necessarily results

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 681
648

Opinion of the Court.

from the nature of the power, and this must have been
within the contemplation of the framers of the Constitution when the power was granted.
The injunction here goes no further than to delay the
enforcement of the contract. It affects only the remedy.
As already appears, this court has upheld the power of a
court of bankruptcy to stay the enforcement of the remedy under a real-estate mortgage; and the remedy under
a pledge, so far as constitutional power is here concerned,
presents a situation strictly analogous in character.
Fifth. It is next contended that the court was without
power to issue the injunction in a summary proceeding.
Obviously, an application for an injunction against the
immediate enforcement of a remedy is not the assertion
of an adverse claim. The bonds deposited as collateral
were not in the hands of purchasers, but in the hands of
creditors as security. That the equity which the debtor
retained was a property interest, was not and could not
be disputed by the creditors; nor was the claim of the
creditors in respect of their rights in the collateral security
or the rank of their liens questioned by the debtor. In
short, no adverse claim was brought forward by either of
the parties to the controversy. The only question was
in respect of the creditors' remedy; and the sole point is as
to the authority of the bankruptcy court to delay for a
reasonable time an interference with the reorganization
proceeding which would result from an immediate sale of
the collateral. The court below dealt adequately with
the situation, and its conclusions find ample support in
the decisions. See, for example, In re Purkett, Douglas &
Co., 50 F. (2d) 435, 438; John Matthews, Inc. v. Knickerbocker Trust Co., 192 Fed. 557; Allebach v. Thomas, 16
F. (2d) 853.
The Reconstruction Finance Corporation raised the
question in the district court by a demurrer, asserting that
the allegations of the debtor's petition were insufficient.

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

But in a summary proceeding, as the term itself implies,
the merits of the controversy are determined without the
formality in respect of pleadings which is required in actions at law or suits in equity. In such a proceeding we
see no reason why the allegations of the petition may not
be helped out by timely affidavits. Doubt has been expressed by lower-federal courts as to the propriety of a
demurrer in such a proceeding. In the Matter of Snelling,
202 Fed. 258, Judge Morton aptly said, "Summary proat
cedure implies, I think, a single hearing . .
which the merits of the controversy are investigated and
decided, without much regard to the formal pleadings."
See, also, In re Rockford Produce & Sales Co., 275 Fed.
811, 813. In any event, we think, as against demurrer,
conceding its propriety, the petition is sufficient. Pertinent allegations are epitomized in the early part of this
opinion.
The contention of the petitioners that they were not
given sufficient notice or a full opportunity to be heard
is quite evidently without merit. They had ten days'
previous notice by registered mail of the application for
the injunction. All appeared specially and participated
in the hearings, for which ample time was allowed. Briefs
were filed on both sides, and additional memoranda were
presented to the court by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and one of the banks.
Sixth. The territorial jurisdiction of the district court
is.assailed by three of the banks on the ground that they
were located outside the Northern District of Illinois.
The contention is that the district court was without
power to issue its process for service outside the district.
Section 77 (a) provides that after the petition of the
railroad company is approved, "the court in which such
order approving the petition is entered shall, during the
pendency of the proceedings under this section and for
the purposes thereof, have exclusive jurisdiction of the

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 683
648

Opinion of the Court.

debtor and its property wherever located." Congress may
authorize the civil process of a federal district court to be
served upon persons in any other district. Toland v.
Sprague, 12 Pet. 300, 328; United States v. Congress Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199, 203-204; First Nat. Bank v.
Williams, 252 U. S.504, 510. There are other cases to the
same effect, but it is unnecessary to cite them. Section 77
deals with railway corporations whose lines and activities
are not confined to a single district or a single state, but
in numerous instances reach into many districts 4nd many
states. The lines of the Rock Island system extend into
20 districts and 14 States. Jurisdiction over reorganization proceedings, however extensive the railway lines may
be, is conferred upon a single district court. The usefulness of the section would be greatly minimized and in
some instances destroyed if that court were powerless to
send its process into any State when necessary to effectuate the purposes of the law. As has already been shown,
the equity in the collateral remaining in the railroad
company is property; and over this property, wherever
located, the federal district court is given exclusive jurisdiction by the precise language of § 77, just quoted. As
a necessary consequence of that jurisdiction, the court
must have the power to preserve and safeguard the prop.erty for the benefit of the trust estate so far as that is
compatible with the rights of the pledgees. Jurisdiction
over the property wherever located carries with it jurisdiction to enjoin, in a proper case, interferences with the
property, and this includes, by necessary inference, the
power to send process to that end for service upon the
persons to be enjoined wherever they may be found within
the United States.
It is said that the words "wherever located" mean
wherever located within the district. But considering
the nature of the property involved, the number of districts and states over which it is distributed,* and the

684

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

manifest policy of avoiding ancillary administration as
far as possible, a construction so narrow must be rejected
as at war with the whole spirit and purpose of the law.
Seventh. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation
contends that §§ 77 and 2 (15) of the Bankruptcy Act
must be limited by the provisions of § 5 of the Reconstruction Finance Corporaticn Act (c. 8, 47 Stat. 5),
which empowers the corporation to take over and liquidate collateral accepted by it as security. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation Act creates a corporation
and vests it with designated powers. Its entire stock is
subscribed by the government, but it is none the les, a
corporation, limited by its charter and by the general law.
The act does not give it greater rights as to the enforcement of its outstanding credits than are enjoyed by other
persons or corporations in the event of proceedings under
the Bankruptcy Act. The provisions and principles of
enforcement of the Bankruptcy Act, including § 77, are
binding upon the Reconstruction Finance Corporation,
in the absence of some pertinent statutory exception, as
they are upon other corporations. We are unable to find
such an exception in the authority to liquidate collateral
held as security-an authority enjoyed in common with
any other lender of money who has taken the trouble to
provide for it in his contract with the borrower. What
is given to the lender in either event is a remedy which,
when subject to the control of the bankruptcy court under
given circumstances in the one case, is equally so in the
other.
Finally. Petitioners insist, with much force, that the
injunction, granted in November, 1933, and still operative,
is likely, if continued, to result in irreparable injury. We
do not interpret the order, as suggested by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, as continuing the injunction in force until a plan of reorganization is effected or
the proceeding under § 77 dismissed. On the contrary,

CONTINENTAL BANK v. ROCK ISLAND RY. 685
648

Opinion of the Court.,

we understand that the injunction may at any time be
dissolved upon application and proper notice and showing. It contemplates, as we have already suggested, only
reasonable delay.
It is true that no plan has yet been consummated; and,
so far as the record shows, none has been prepared or is
in the course of preparation. If this long delay were
without adequate excuse, the retention of the injunction
for the long period which has intervened since it was
granted could not be justified. But the delay is obviously
due to the many doubts and uncertainties arising from
the present litigation. Until they are finally resolved,
the consummation, or even the preparation, of any definite plan is plainly impracticable. With those doubts
and uncertainties now removed, the proceeding should go
forward to completion without further delay, or be dismissed.
The delay and expense incident to railroad receiverships
and foreclosure sales constituted, probably, the chief reasons which induced the passage of § 77; and to permit
the perpetuation of either of these evils under this new
legislation would be subversive of the spirit in which it
was conceived and adopted. Not only are those who
institute the proceeding and those who carry it forward
bound to exercise the highest degree of diligence, but it is.
the duty of the court and of the Interstate Commerce
Commission to see that they do. Proceedings of this
character, involving public and private interests of such
magnitude, should, so far as practicable) be given the right
of way both'by the court and by the commission, to the
end that they may be speedily determined.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS took no part in the decision of
this case.

