CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
SMITH v. SNOW ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 102.

Argued December 3, 4, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. Claim 1 of the Smith Patent, No. 1,262,860, for a method for the
incubation of eggs, held valid, and infringed. P. 7.
2. Claim 1 covers broadly the essential elements of the Smith invention, viz., (a) the arrangement of the eggs at different levels in
staged incubation in a closed chamber, having restricted openings of
sufficient capacity for the escape of foul air without undue loss of
moisture; (b) the application to the eggs of heated air in a current
created by means other than variation of temperature; and (c), as
marking the boundaries of the claim, a sufficient velocity in the current to circulate and diffuse the air and maintain it throughout the
chamber at substantially the same temperature, whereby the air
will be vitalized, moisture conserved, and the units of heat carried
from the eggs in the more advanced stage of incubation to those in
a less advanced stage. Held:
(1) The claim is not limited by the particular mode of use described in the specifications, since the claims of the patent, not its
specifications, measure the invention. P. 11.
(2) Examination of the claim in the light both of scientific fact
and of the particular form in which the inventor reduced it to practice as described in the specifications, makes it plain that the claim
does not require any particular order or arrangement of the eggs in
staged incubation in the incubator, or that the propelled air current
°

112536 -35----1

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

294 U. S.

should reach them in any particular order, or that it should be
guided, controlled or directed by any particular means, or in any
particular manner other than that it should be of sufficient velocity
to produce the results prescribed by the claim. Pp. 9, 13.
(3) There is nothing in the file wrapper to suggest that any addition was made to Claim 1 to restrict the patent to any particular
order of arrangement of the eggs or any particular direction or
means of control of the current of air, other than its velocity, and
nothing to estop the patentee from asserting that the claim is not
restricted by such features. P. 14.
(4) The claim is not limited by the prior art. P. 16.
(5) The invention as claimed was infringed by respondents'
apparatus in this case. P. 18.
3. The fact that a claim broadly covering the esentials of an invention omits particular means of application which are called for by
other claims is evidence that the broader claim was not intended to
be so restricted. P. 13.
4. The inventor of a novel method of artificial incubation of eggs,
which solved the major problems of that art in a highly efficient
manner and was attended by great practical and commercial success, is entitled to broad claims in his patent, and to a liberal construction of them tending to secure to the patentee the benefit of his
invention rather than to defeat the grant. P. 14.
5. A broad claim is not to be given a restricted construction because
its allowance in the Patent Office followed the rejection of narrow
claims. P. 16.
6. The invention of a combination is not anticipated by earlier and
impracticable experiments, for the same end, with isolated elements
of the combination. P. 17.
70 F. (2d) 564, reversed.

to review a decree reversing a decree of
the District Court and holding valid, but not infringed,
CERTIORARI *

a claim of a patent for an improved apparatus and method
for the incubation of eggs.
Messrs. Newton D. Baker and Albert L. Ely argued the
cause, and Messrs. Charles Neave, Albert L. Ely, Amasa
C. Paul, and Maurice M. Moore filed a brief, for peti-

tioner.
* See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

SMITH v. SNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Ralph E. Williamson, with whom Mr. James F.
Williamson was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Certiorari was granted to review a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, 70 F. (2d) 564,
which reversed the decree of the district court and held
valid, but not infringed, the first claim of the Smith Patent, No. 1,262,860, of April 16, 1918, for an improved apparatus and method for the incubation of eggs.' The
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held the same
claim valid and infringed in Waxham v. Smith 70 F. (2d)
457, in which case certiorari was also granted. The question thus presented is one of the scope of the claim.
Only so much of the patent as relates to a method for
incubation is now involved. Correct appreciation of the
contentions made requires a brief exposition of the wellknown phenomena which attend the incubation of eggs
under natural conditions.
The period for hatching eggs of the domestic hen is
twenty-one days. The eggs are cold at the beginning
of the period of incubation, although at that time generation has already progressed slightly. Continuation of
this process and successful incubation depend upon the
'The patent has been extensively litigated. Claim 1 has been held
valid and infringed in Buckeye Incubator Co. v. Wolf, 291 Fed. 253,
aff'd 296 Fed. 680 (C. C. A. 6th); Buckeye Incubator Co. v. Cooley,
17 F. (2d) 453 (C. C. A. 3rd); Miller Hatcheries v. Buckeye Incubator Co., 41 F. (2d) 619 (C. C. A. 8th); Smith v. Jensma, 1 F.
Supp. 999 (D. C.); Waxham v. Smith, 70 F. (2d) 457 (C. C. A. 9th).
It has been held valid, but not infringed, in Buckeye Incubator Co.
v. Blum, 17 F. (2d) 456, aff'd 27 F. (2d) 333 (C. C: A. 6th);
Buckeye Incubator Co. v. Petersime, 19 F. (2d) 721 (C. . A. 6th);
Buckeye Incubator Co. v. Hillpot, 22 F. (2d) 855, aff'd 24 F. (2d)
341 (C. C. A. 3d); Boling v. Buckeye Incubator Co., 33 F. (2d) 347,
reversed on other grounds, 46 F. (2d) 965 (C. C. A. 6th); Snow v.
Smith, 70 F. (2d).564 (C. C. A. 8th).

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

application of heat to the eggs, and the maintenance of
their temperature at not less than body heat, about 100'
F., and not more than 1050 F. Any substantial divergence from this range of temperature results in deterioration or death of the embryo, and consequent failure of
the hatching process. If the temperature is maintained
within this range, the eggs during the first ten days of
the period absorb heat required to generate and maintain
the life of the embryo. The eggs are then said to be
endothermic or heat absorbing. From the eleventh day
until the end of the period the embryo has developed to
a point at which the egg generates more heat than is
needed to keep the embryo alive. They are then said to
be exothermic. From that time on the excess heat is
given off to the surrounding air or to objects in contact
with the eggs, if at a lower temperature than the eggs.
The development of heat accompanies the oxidation
of food elements within the egg, in consequence of which
it gives off carbon dioxide during the period of incubation and absorbs oxygen from the external air, both of
which pass through the shell of the egg and its lining
membrane. During the period of incubation there is also
gradual evaporation of moisture from the egg, which
tends to reduce its temperature slightly. The best results are obtained if the total evaporation during incubation does not exceed about 15%. Evaporation in excess of that amount affects the embryo adversely, the
chick when hatched being undeveloped and lacking
normal strength.
Successful artificial incubation therefore involves conformity to three principal requisites: the maintenance of
proper temperature during the period of incubation, the
prevention of excessive evaporation of moisture, and the
supply of an adequate amount of oxygen, which involves
also the removal from the incubator of the carbon dioxide
which results from oxidation of the contents of the egg.

SMITH v. SNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

The artificial incubation of eggs is an ancient art. It
appears to have been known to the Egyptians two thousand years ago, and for a comparable period to the Chinese.
Until Smith, the patentee, carried on his experiments, the
effort had been generally to reproduce as nearly as practicable the natural conditions of incubation. In practice,
eggs, in relatively small number, seldom more than three
hundred and usually less, were placed, on the same level,
in a cabinet with heating means above the eggs, so that
the temperature above the eggs was maintained at a
higher point, about 103' F., than that below. To secure
the requisite exposure of the eggs to the higher temperature, it was necessary, in the course of incubation, to turn
the eggs frequently, as is done by the hen in nature. Provision was made for supplying fresh air to the cabinet and
for humidifying the air within the cabinet. All incubators
were of the still air type; that is to say, the only movement of air within the incubator was that caused by variations of temperature at different points within the cabinet, resulting in some transmission of heat by radiation or
convection. The opinion seems to have prevailed that
the presence of currents of air either within or surrounding the cabinet was harmful. Successful operation of this
method required nice adjustments of the heating means
so as to avoid overheating as the eggs passed into the more
advanced stages of incubation, reaching their highest
temperature about the seventeenth day.
Smith conceived the idea, embodied in his patent, of
setting the eggs in staged incubation within the cabinet
and applying to them, in convenient arrangement for
that purpose, a current of heated air, propelled by means
other than convection. Staged incubation is the successive setting of eggs in the same cabinet at brief intervals,
of about three days. At the twenty-first day there would
thus be several settings of eggs in the incubator, each at
a different stage of incubation, part in the endothermic

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

stage and part in the exothermic. Smith arranged the egg
trays or racks in tiers, so that air could be freely circulated among the eggs. He subjected them to a continuous
current of air of the requisite constant temperature of
about 1000 F., propelled by a fan so that it would circulate freely and repeatedly throughout the cabinet. The
heat of the eggs in the later stages of incubation waw
thus carried by the circulating ait of lower temperature
to the cooler eggs, in the earlier stages, so that there was
a continuous tendency to equalize the temperature
throughout the cabinet at approximately the temperature of the introduced current of air.
Before Smith there had been efforts to set eggs in
staged incubation, but without practical success, because
of the difficulties of securing adequate heat distribution
within the incubator. He was the first to apply mechanically circulated currents of air to eggs so arranged.
He followed this procedure in conjunction with the use
of a restricted opening for the elimination of foul air.
By this combination the difference in temperature of the
eggs was equalized within the desired range throughout
the incubator during the period of incubation, the air
within the incubator was gradually replaced by fresh air,
and the moisture of the eggs was conserved. His method
thus solved the major problems of artificial incubation in
a highly efficient manner. It was novel and involved invention. See Barbed Wire Patent Case, 143 U. S. 275,
283; Krementz v. S. Cottle Co., 148 U. S. 556, 559, 560.
That it was invention is not seriously disputed here,
and of the many courts which have passed on the patent
none has denied its validity. The new method had certain marked advantages over earlier ones. It was possible to carry on the process of incubation continuously.
by placing fresh eggs in the incubator at intervals, as
those of the most advanced stage hatched and the new
born chicks were removed. It was possible to apply

SMITH v. SNOW.

I

Opinion of the Court.

heated air to the eggs at a constant temperature, thus
avoiding the ,necessity of varying by nice adjustments the
temperature of the applied air, so as to conform to the
varying temperatures of the eggs as they passed through
successive stages of incubation. As the egg racks or trays
could be placed in tiers, instead of on a single level, it was
possible to arrange them more compactly and greatly increase the number of eggs in a single incubator. Before
staged incubation, as developed by Smith, it had not been
practicable to operate incubators of a capacity of more
than about three hundred eggs. By use of the new method
it is possible to operate successfully an incubator containing as many as 52,000 eggs, and the percenitage of eggs
successfully hatched by artificial incubation has been materially raised.
The commercial success of the new method was immediate and striking. At first the inventor devoted himself
to developing his own hatchery for the use of the new
method; it was the largest in existence; with a capacity
of over 1,000,000 eggs. In 1922 he began the manufacture and sale of the new incubator. In ten years he,
and a corporation which he had organized for the purpose,
had made sales of incubators aggregating about $24,000,000, having a total egg capacity of over 188,000,000.
The old type of incubator, with eggs arranged at a single
.level, all in a single stage of incubation, has thus become
obsolete.
That the method employed in the Smith type of incubator was novel and revolutionary in the industry is not
challenged. The question presented, here is what scope
may rightly be given to Claim 1 of the patent; whether
the petitioner has drafted it in such form as to secure the
fruits of his invention. Claim 1 reads as follows:
" 1. The method of hatching a plurality of eggs by arranging them at different levels in a closed chamber having restricted openings of sufficient capacity for the escape

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

of foul air without undue loss of moisture and applying a
current of heated air, said current being created by means
other than variations of temperature and of sufficient velocity to circulate, diffuse and maintain the air throughout the chamber at substantially the same temperature,
whereby the air will be vitalized, the moisture conserved
and the units of heat will be carried from the eggs in the
more advanced stage of incubation to those in a less advanced stage for the purpose specified."
It will be observed that the claim, standing by itself,
asserts the essential elements of the method of incubation
to be: (a) the arrangement of the eggs at different levels
in staged incubation in a closed chamber, having restricted openings of sufficient capacity for the escape of
foul air without undue loss of moisture; (b) the application to the eggs of heated air in a current created by means
other than variation of temperature; and (c), as marking
the boundaries of the claim, the current of air is to be of
sufficient velocity to circulate, diffuse and maintain the
air throughout the chamber at substantially the same
temperature whereby the air will be vitalized, moisture
conserved, and the units of heat carried from the eggs in
the more advanced stage to those in the less advanced.
To avoid petitioner's charge of infringement two main
contentions are pressed by respondents. First, that Claim
1 is restricted to an arrangement of the eggs in such order
with respect to the direction of the propelled current of
heated air that it will first come in contact with the more
advanced eggs. Thus construed, respondents do not infringe, as concededly the movement of air within their
incubator does not pass to the eggs in staged incubation
in any particular order. Second, that the movement of
air in respondents' incubator, produced by the agitating
action of fans or propellers, does not result in "a current
of air" traveling in a constant predestined path within
the meaning of Claim 1. In passing upon these conten-

SMITH v. SNOW.
1

Opinion of the Court.

tions it is necessary to ascertain the proper scope of Claim
1, and to determine whether the characteristic features of
respondents' incubator come within its scope. Respondents maintain that the claim is restricted in its scope in
the manner indicated above (a) by the disclosures of the
patent itself, (b) by the prior art, including the patentee
Smith's own prior public usage, and (c) by estoppels arising from the file wrapper record of the patent.
1. The court below rested its decision on its interpretation of Claim 1, read in the light of the disclosures
of the patent, as restricting the patented method to a
particular arrangement of the eggs, whereby the current
of heated air, after being introduced into the cabinet,
first comes in contact with the eggs in the most advanced
stage of incubation. It reached this conclusion by comparison of that part of the claim, which speaks of the
units of heat as being "carried from the eggs in the more
advanced stage of incubation to those in a less advanced
stage," with the specifications, which disclose an arrangement of the eggs such that the introduced current of
heated air first passes to the more advanced eggs. As
respondents' incubators have no such arrangement of the
eggs, and as in consequence the forced draft of heated air
does not reach the eggs in any particular order, the court
held that the respondents do not infringe Claim 1.
The patentee, obedient to the command of the statute
(R. S. § 4888), gave such description of the manner of
using his discovery as would enable others skilled in the
art to use it. The specifications first describe generally
the method by which the eggs in staged incubation are
arranged in tiers and subjected to forced circulation of
heated air through the incubating chamber. The patent
states: "The temperature of circulating air should be
such as will prevent the eggs in the early stage of incubation from falling below 100 ° and the speed or velocity
of the circulating air should be such as to carry the heat

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U.S.

away from -the eggs in the later stage of incubation and
thereby hold the temperature of those eggs at 1050 or
slightly below that. It is manifest that the temperature
will remain practically the same throughout the column
of eggs, but the air is impelled with sufficient velocity to
carry the heat away from the eggs which happen to be in
the advanced stage of incubation." The drawings and
specifications show the eggs arranged in tiers on either
side of the chamber, with an open space or corridor between, at the top of which a revolving fan forces the air
downward in the opren space of the corridor. Above the
fan is a valve-controlled air intake for the introduction
of fresh air and above the trays of eggs on either side
are shown "outlets for the release of foul air . . . of such
restricted capacity as to prevent the undue escape of
moisture."
It is true that drawings and specifications indicate a
particular arrangement of the eggs from the top to the
bottom of the tiers of trays, according to the stage of
the incubating process, the eggs being arranged progressively from the least advanced, placed at the top, to the
most advanced, placed at the bottom of the tiers. They
indicate also that as the eggs most advanced are hatched,
they are to be replaced by moving downward the trays
containing the several successive settings of eggs which
are in earlier stages of incubation. They also speak of a
"column" of air of such speed as to keep the temperature
substantially uniform, and show curtains hanging from the
top of the chamber covering the ends of the trays on either
side of the corridor and extending to a point a short distance above the floor.
With this arrangement the air would be propelled downward to the floor of the chamber, gaining access to the
eggs by passing beneath the ends of the curtains to the
trays of eggs at the bottom of the tiers. So much of the
air as was introduced through the intake would thus reach

SMITH v. SNOW.
1

Opinion of the Court.

the more advanced eggs first. It would then be deflected
upward through the egg trays to the top of the chamber,
and so much of it as did not pass out through the restricted capacity outlets located at the top of the tiers of
trays would be returned to the fan to be propelled again
through the described circuit.
We may take it that, as the statute requires, the specifications just detailed show a way of using the inventor's
method, and that he conceived that particular way described was the best one. But he is not confined to that
particular mode of use since the claims of the patent, not
its specifications, measure the invention. Paper Bag Patent Case, 210 U. S. 405, 419; McCarty v. Lehigh Valley
R. Co., 160 U. S. 110, 116; Winans v. Denmead, 15 How.
330, 343. While the claims of a patent may incorporate
the specifications or drawings by reference, see Snow v.
Lake Shore R. Co., 121 U. S. 617, 630, and thus limit
the patent to the form described in the specifications, it
is not necessary to embrace in the claims or describe in
the specifications all possible forms in which the claimed
principle may be reduced to practice. It is enough that
the principle claimed is exemplified by a written description of it and of the manner of using it "in such full,
clear, concise, and exact terms" as will enable one "skilled
in the art to make, construct, compound and use the
same.",
Here the specifications showed an arrangement of the
eggs and a means of guiding the current of air so that
it would reach the most advanced eggs first. But neither
the arrangement nor the means of guiding the current
of air are requisite to the application of the principle
which Smith discovered and claimed. Without either,
the heated air may be given, as Claim 1 prescribes, "sufficient velocity to circulate, diffuse and maintain the air
throughout the chamber at substantially the same temperature whereby . . . the units of heat will be carried

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

from the eggs in the more advanced stage of incubation
to those in a less advanced stage." Claim 1 made no
mention of curtains or any column of air or means of
guiding the current of air, and the inventor made no
claim for any particular arrangement of the eggs, except
that they should be at different levels. Moreover, while
the specifications and drawings show a particular arrangement of the eggs and a particular direction of the current,
nowhere, in specifications or claim, is it stated either that
the direction of the current is material or, what is the
equivalent, that the order in which it reaches the eggs
is material.
Only by resort to the assumption that heat units could
not be carried from the more advanced to the cooler and
less advanced eggs, unless the initially introduced air first
came in contact with the more advanced, is it possible to
support the conclusion of the court below and read the
claim as calling for a particular arrangement which would
enable the air current to reach the advanced eggs first.
Such, of course, would be the case only if the current of
air were to make a single circuit, and either remain at its
end incontact with the cooler eggs or pass out of the incubator altogether. Neither occurs in petitioner's machine, and there is no reason to suppose that either would
produce the desired equalization of temperature. The
specifications and clainj both contemplate a continuous
circulation of the current of heated air through the chamber, which, regardless of its direction, would continuously
operate, by repeated contacts with the eggs in all stages,
to equalize the temperature throughout the chamber by
carrying heat units from the warmer to The cooler eggs.
The claim conforms to the spetifications in prescribing "restricted openings of sufficient capacity for the escape of foul air without undue loss of moisture." The
amount of foul air allowed to escape through the outlet
of restricted capacity necessarjily controls the amount of

SMITH v. SNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

air taken in. In petitioner's commercial machines, regulated to produce the prescribed result in air vitalization
and conservation of moisture, the interchange of foul air
for fresh is from 1/, of 1% to 3% of the air content for
each complete circuit of the chamber. This means that
the air content of the chamber must make the circuit
many times, theoretically from 33 to 200, before an equal
volume of fresh air would be drawn in through the intake.
Such continuous circulation of the air at constant temperature, lower than that of the more advanced eggs and
higher than that of the less advanced, tends to produce
the equalization of the temperature of the eggs by flow
of heat units from the warmer eggs to the cooler, regardless of the direction of the current in the circuit, and regardless of the particular stage of the eggs which it reaches
first. With other factors constant, the efficiency of-this
equalization process would depend upon the velocity of
the current. The statement of Claim 1 is that the current of air is to be " of sufficient velocity to circulate, diffuse and maintain the air throughout the chamber at substantially the same temperature." The specifications
state: "It is obvious that the fans can be so arranged and
can be operated at such speed as to cause the hot air to
circulate fast enough to keep the temperature throughout the chamber between the limits of 1000 and 105'."'
It is evident that Claim 1 does not prescribe that the
current of air shall be propelled by any particular means,
except that it shall be by means other than variation of
temperature, nor does it prescribe that the means of propulsion shall be given any particular location, or that the
current of air shall be guided by any particular means.
or given any particular direction. The omission of these
requirements from Claim 1 is the more pointed as the
other claims of the patent speak in particular of a powerdriven fan, of the location of the fan, of curtains and a
partition obviously intended to give direction to the cur-

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U.S.

rent of air, of a vertically directed current of air, and of air
circulating from the bottom of the chamber into the parts
of it occupied by the tiers of egg trays. Thus by striking
and obviously intended contrast with other claims, Claim
1 covers broadly the essential elements of the Smith invention as we have already described it. Symington Co.
v. National Malleable Castings Co., 250 U. S. 383, 385;
Lamson Consolidated Store Service Co. v. Hillman, 123
Fed. 416, 419 (C. C. A. 7th); Wm.B. Scaife & Sons Co. v.
Falls City Woolen Mills, 209 Fed. 210, 214 (C. C. A. 6th).
Examination of the claim, in the light both of scientific
fact and of the particular form in which the petitioner reduced the claim to practice as described in the specifications, makes it plain that the claim does not call for a
particular order or arrangement of the eggs in staged incubation in the incubator, or that the propelled current
should reach them in any particular order, or that it
should be guided, controlled or.directed by any particular
means, or in any particular manner other than that it
should be of sufficient velocity to produce the results prescribed by the 'claim. If the matter were doubtful, it is
plain from what has been said that the character of the
patent and its commercial and practical success are such
as to entitle the inventor to broad claims and to a liberal
construction of those which he has made. Moreley Machine Co. v. Lancaster, 129 U. S.263, 273-277; Eibel Co.
v. Paper Co., 261 U. S. 45, 63; Winans v. Denmead, supra,
341. In such circumstances, if the claim were fairly susceptible of two constructions, that should be adopted
which will secure to the jpatentee his actual invention,
rather than to adopt a construction fatal to the grant,
Keystone Manufacturing Co. v. Adams, 151 U. S. 139,
144, 145; McClain v. Ortmayer, 141.U. S. 419, 425.
2. We find nothing in the file wrapper defense to disturb our conclusion as to the correct interpretation of
Claim 1. It is a familiar rule that a patentee cannot

SMITH v. SNOW.

15

Opinion of the Court.

broaden his claim by dropping from it an element which
he was compelled to add in order to secure his patent.
I. T. S. Rubber Co. v. Essex Rubber Co., 272 U. S.429,
443; Smith v. Magic City Club, 282 U. S.784, 789, 790.
But the file wrappe& lends no support for the application
of this rule to petitioner's Claim 1.
The history of Smith's application in the Patent Office
is a long one. Four groups of method claims were successively presented to the Patent Office and three were
successively rejected. The fourth group ultimately matured into Claims 1, 2, and 3 of the patent. It suffices
to say that Claims 1 and 25 of the first group claimed
broadly, "The method of hatching eggs by arranging the
eggs in a column and applying heated air forced about the
eggs, the heated air beingadapted to the eggs in various
stages of incubation," and " the method of hatching eggs
by arranging the eggs in a column one above the other
and forcing heated air through said column." In due
course the broad claims thus asserted were modified and
narrowed by the inclusion of new elements, until they
appeared in the form of Claim 1 of the patent. But, as
we have seen, none of these additions involves any particular order of arrangement of the eggs or any particular
direction or control of the air current, except that the
current is to be "of sufficient velocity to circulate, diffuse
and maintain the air throughout the chamber at substantially the same temperature."
It is an illuminating fact that the entire written argument filed in support of Claim 1, as it was finally presented to the Patent Office and allowed, makes no reference to any order or arrangement of the eggs, or to
shifting the location of the eggs in the incubator, no reference to the location of the fan, the direction of the air
current, or to curtains or partitions. The features emphasized were'the superiority, over drafts caused by variations of temperature, of " current produced by mechanical

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
IOpinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

means" applied to eggs in staged incubation arranged
at different levels, the conservation of moisture, and the
elimination of foul air by the restricted air outlets, all
features of Claim 1 which are characteristic of both petitioner's and respondents' incubators. We find nothing in
the file wrapper to suggest that any addition was made
to Claim 1 to restrict the patent to any particular order
of arrangement of the eggs or any particular direction or
means of control of the current of air, other than its
velocity, and nothing to estop the patentee from asserting
that the claim is not restricted by such features. See
Baltzley v. Spengler Loomis Mfg. Co., 262 Fed. 423, 426
(C. C. A. 2d); National Hollow B. B. Co. v. Interchangeable B. B. Co., 106 Fed. 693, 714 (C. C. A. 8th). It is
of no moment that in the course of the proceedings in the
Patent Office the rejection of narrow claims was followed
by the allowance of the broader Claim 1. Westinghouse
Electric & Mfg. Co. v. Condit Electrical Mfg. Co., 194
Fed. 427, 430 (C. C. A. 2d).
3. Claim 1 is not limited by the prior art. It is urged
that there was disclosure by Smith by public use more
than two years before his application for the patent. At
the time indicated he used commercially an incubator
arranged in three completely separated compartments in
each of which there was circulation of the air by a fan.
But there was no staged incubation in any single compartment.
The German patent, Stulik, No. 155,917, issued in 1901,
disclosed the arrangement of trays of eggs in staged incubation in an enclosed column or stack, with the endothermic eggs at the bottom. The eggs were subjected to
a rising column of heated air, which was allowed to escape
at the top of the chimney. There was no forced draft of
air, no circulation or re-circulation of air, and in consequence no carrying of heat units from the more advanced
eggs at the top to the less advanced0 ezs at the bottom.

SMITH v. SNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

Other patents named, as Winkler, No. 286,756, of 1883,
and Zimmer, No.. 1,075,747, of 1913, show types of staged
incubation, but made no use of a current of air propelled
by means other than variations of temperature, and in
other respects were so plainly impractical as to call for
no extended discussion. This is true also of the description in the 1867 edition of Ure's Dictionary, 652-3, said
to represent a method of incubation devised in 1777 by
Bonnemain, a Frenchman, and not used since the French
revolution, by which eggs in staged incubation were placed
in a closed room heated by hot water pipes, but without
other means of producing currents of air. Such rudimentary experiments with isolated elements of Smith's
combination did not anticipate his invention. See Smith
& Griggs Mfg. Co. v. Sprague, 123 U.. S.249, 255.
Other patents are cited showing varying types of incubators in which the eggs were placed at different levels,
but in which the circulation of air through the incubating
chamber by means other than variations in temperature
is wanting.2
The Proctor & Knowles Patent, No. 426,321 of 1890,
and the Schwartz Patent, No. 535,175 of 1895, for methods
and apparatus for conditioning tobacco and other materials, as well as other procedures for ventilation, are so
remote from the problems and procedure for hatching eggs
as to call for no comment.
This history of the prior art serves to emphasize rather
than to discredit the striking advance made by Smith in
effecting the combination defiried in Claim 1. -More than
the skill of the art was involved iacombining and adjusting its elements in such fashion as to solve the major prob'Guerin,

U. S. Patent, No. 3,019, March 30, 1843; Bassini &

fleyden, U. S. Patent, No. 330,457, November 17, 1885; Van Keuren,
U. S. Psttent, No. 1,160,793, November 16, 1915; Bell, U. S. Patent,
No. 691837, January 28, 1902; Koons, U. S. Patent, No. 916,454,

.March 30. 109.
1125369

3f.--M-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

lems of artificial incubation. The prior art discloses no
application of a continuously circulating current of air to
eggs in staged incubation which would restrict Claim 1
with respect either to the arrangement of the eggs or the
direction or control of the current of air.
4. There remains the question of infringement. The
respondents' machine exhibits a closed chamber, with restricted outlet for the escape of foul air and an intake for
fresh air, with eggs arranged at different levels in staged
incubation, with a fan-impelled movement of air which
circulates and recirculates throughout the chamber. The
air moves over and about the eggs, carrying the units
of heat from the-warmer to the cooler eggs, maintains a
substantially uniform temperature throughout the chamber, vitalizes the air and conserves moisture.
As Claim 1 of petitioner's patent is not restricted to any
particular order in which the current of air reaches the
eggs, respondents do not avoid infringement by interspersing indiscriminately, as they do, the trays of eggs
in different stages of incubation. Respondents' claim of
non-infringement is thus reduced to the contention that
their incubators do not employ circulating currents of air
called for by Claim 1. Their emphasis is on the agitation
of air in respondents' machine in such a manner that its
movement does not follow defined paths through the
chamber so as to answer to the description "current of
air."
In respondents' machine fans or air propellers are located at either side of the chamber, about mid-way of its
height, near the wall and between the wall and tiers of
egg trays. They are constructed and operated in such
fashion that the air is "drawn" by their action from the
central corridor through the tiers of eggs toward the center of the propellers. There, by the centrifugal action of
the propellers, it is thrown off the ends of the propeller
blades toward the top, bottom and adjacent ends of the
chamber. There it is deflected by ceiling, floor and ends

SMITH v. SNOW.
1

Opinion of the Court.

of the chamber into the corridor, from whence it is, in
due course, again drawn through the tiers of eggs to the
propellers. The propellers are operated, and the air
moves, continuously. Since the main movement of the
air at the top and bottom of the tiers is toward the center
corridor, and since the fans draw in air through the middle of the tiers, there are points in the space occupied by
the tiers where the movement of the air is toward the
corridor until it joins and is turned back by the current
moving toward the propellers.
Claim 1, as already stated, does not call for a current of
air moving in any particular direction. Assuming, without deciding, that it calls for a current of air so constant
in its movement and direction as not to depart substantially from a well defined path, one would expect that a
fan operating, as in respondents' machine, within a uosed
chamber under substantially constant conditions, would
produce currents of air without substantial variations of
path. No valid scientific reason or explanation is advanced for any different result. Extensive testimony and
elaborate arguments are presented to support the contention that notwithstanding the application of force to
the air within the closed chamber by the action of respondents' propellers, under practically constant conditions, the results produced are so variable that " the air
goes where it 'listeth '; " they are not, convincing. The
conclusion is abundantly supported by evidence that
there is a continuous movement of air from the blades
of respondents' propellers toward the top and bottom
and sides of the chamber, thence to the corridor and
thence through the tiers of egg trays back to the propellers, and that this movement achieves the purpose declared in Claim 1, "to circulate, diffuse and maintain
the air throughout the chamber at substantially the same
temperature." The trial judge so found.
That there is a mixture of the air and some confusion
of its movement in the corridor, and that at different

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
294 U.S.

Syllabus.

levels within the space occupied by the tiers of trays the
movement is not in the same direction, is immaterial.
It is enough that there is a movement of air in current
form following substantially defined paths through the
tiers of egg trays, sufficient to effect the desired transfer
of heat units. Claim 1 does not prescribe that a current
of air is to be maintained throughout the chamber. It
calls for the application to the eggs of a current of air
"of sufficient velocity to circulate, diffuse and maintain
the air throughout the chamber at substantially the
same temperature." This respondents accomplish by the
currents of air set in motion either directly or indirectly
by the movement of the blades of the propellers. The
.method is that of Smith. Respondents do not avoid infringement of the method by varying the details of the
apparatus by which they make use of it. Cochrane v.
Deener, 94 U. S. 780, 788; Tilghman v. Proctor, 102 U. S.
707, 730, 731.
Reversed.

WAXHAM v. SMITH

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 208.

Argued December 4, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1.Claim 1 of Patent No. 1,262,860, to Smith for a method of incubating eggs, held valid and infringed. See Smith v. Snow, ante,
p. 1. P. 21.
2. The claim is for a method or process and not for a machine or the
function of- a machine. P. 21.
3. A method, otherwise patentable, is not to be rejected as "functional" merely because the specifications show a machine capable
of using it. P. 22.
4. Infringement of the Smith method is not avoided by use of it,
whether more or less efficiently, in an incubator of different structure than Smith's. P. 23.
70 F. (2d) 457, affirmed.

