SEABURY v. GREEN.
158

Syllabus.

§ 5918] against the distributees to recover of them the
amount of the liability, not exceeding the amount of the
distributive share received by each." On the second appeal, the court overruled the contention that the liability
of each distributee was limited to the amount of the bank
stock he received from the estate. And this court, following and interpreting these decisions and affirming the
judgment, held that, although the property had been allotted and delivered to the persons thereunto entitled under the decree of the probate court, the estate had not
been extinguished but continued to exist subject to the
liability defined in § 66. As by Minnesota law-contrary to that of Utah--decedent's estate after distribution continued to be subject to the enforcement of
claims, that case does not support respondent's contention here.
The judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is reversed and that of the
District Court is affirmed.

SEABURY, RECEIVER, v. GREEN, ADMINISTRATRIX, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS FOR SUMTER
COUNTY, SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 434. Argued December 11, 12, 1934.-Decided February 4, 1935.
1. The liability of a decedent's estate to be assessed as stockholder of
a national bank for the debts of the bank, depends upon the federal
law, Title 12 U. S. C., §§ 64, 66; and a ruling of a state court
against such liability necessarily depends upon a construction of
that law and is reviewable under § 237 (b) of the Judicial Code.
P. 168.
2. For want of capacity, a minor is not subject to assessment on national bank shares sought to be distributed to him as part of a
decedent's estate, though in form they were transferred to his name
on the books of the bank. The estate continues to be liable as
stockholder under Title 12- U. S. C., § 66. P. 168.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

3. Under Title 12 U. S. C., § 66, a decedent's estate is liable for assessments on national bank shares left by the decedent and which
have not been validly assigned by final distribution or otherwise,
including assessments made after the stockholder's death; and the
liability is not limited to property actually in the hands of the personal representative when the bank became insolvent and when the
assessment was made, but may be enforced against property which
has been distributed and is held by distributees. P. 168.
4. Discharge of the executor did not, in this case, extinguish the
estate. P. 169.
5. The enforcement of liability imposed by § 66, supra, may not be
thwarted or impeded by state law. P. 169.
173 S. C. 235; 175 S. E. 639, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 549, to review the reversal of
a judgment recovered by the Receiver of a national
bank on an assessment made by the Comptroller of the
Currency.
Messrs. Raymon Schwartz and George P. Barse, with
whom Mr. F. G. Awalt was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel Want for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
March 17, 1927, Moses Green, of Sumter County, South
Carolina, died testate. He left three sons, a daughter and
a deceased son's three minor children. His will was established in probate court; the execytor qualified and entered
upon his duties. The residuary estate contained 20 shares
of stock of the City National Bank of Sumter, which were
distributed by the executor and tr/ansferred on the books
of the bank: four shares to each of testator's children and
four to the three minors. The executor was discharged.
The bank continued for several years thereafter to carry
on as a going concern. Then it closed because of insolvency and was put in the hands of a receiver, the petitioner. The Comptroller made an assessment of $100 a
share. No payment having been made on account of the

SEABURY v. GREEN.
165

Opinion of the Court.

four shares in the names of the minors, an administratrix
de bonis non with the will annexed was appointed. She
refused to pay the assessment. The undivided interest
in real estate received by the distributees under the testator's will is worth more than $2,000, the par value of
the 20 shares, and the minors' interest is worth more than"
$400.
Claiming under Title 12, U. S. C., §§ 64 and 66, jetitioner brought this suit in the common pleas court of
Sumter County against the administratrix, the sons and
daughter, the minors and their guardian. He made no
demand and asserted no claim against the executor.
The complaint prayed judgment against the administratrix for $400 with interest and that the property
taken under the will. and held by the other defendants
be subjected .to. the claim. The trial court, following
Rutledge v. Stackley, 162S. C. 170; 160 S.E. 429, held
the minors not personally liable because legally incapable
of assuming the obligation; that if living the testator
would be, and therefore his estate is, liable and that petitioner is entitled to judgment against the administratrix;
that the property taken by the minors under the will
should be subjected to the payment of the debt and, if
not sufficient, the property distributed to and held by the
testator's sons and daughter. It gave judgment for petitioner in accordance with these rulings. The administratrix and minors appealed. The supreme court reversed.
173 S. C. 235; 175 S. E. 639. It held the will did not
direct distribution of bank stock to the minors, but the
executor allotted it to them in what he considered an
orlderly and authorized division of the estate; that, as they
could not assume the obligation, their property is not
liable, and that, as the transfer to them was not directed
by the will and the executor had no power to bind the
estate, it was not liable. In support of its conclusion the
court suggested that during administration there existed

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

294 U. S.

against testator's estate no claim in favor of the bank's
creditors; that all debts of the estate were paid and that
the executor was discharged without objection. And it
said "we can see no reason why a claim which did not
exist during the orderly administration of the estate
should now be brought up years after the estate closed.
. . . It does not seem that either the act of Congress or
the State Statute imposing liability on stockholders in
banks is sufficient to cover the very peculiar facts existing
in this case."
Respondent maintains that no federal question is involved. To the extent the opinion implies that liability
of stockholders of national banks is a creature of or depends upon a statute of South Carolina, the assumption
is so plainly without foundation as to suggest that it
must have been inadvertently made. The court's ruling
that the estate is not liable for the assessment necessarily
depends upon its construction of § 66. The judgment is
reviewable here under § 237 (b), Judicial Code.
For the want of capacity the minors are not subject
to the assessment. The shares, though in form transferred to their names on the books of the bank, actually
continued to be and still are a part of the testator's estate.
Early v. Richardson, 280 U. S. 496, 499. Cf. McNair v.
Darragh,31 F. (2d) 906. And the estate continued to be
liable as a stockholder under § 66. The liability was not
by the Congress intended to be limited to property, actually in the hands of the personal representative when the
bank became insolvent or when the comptroller's assessment was made. Section 64 imposes liability upon the
stockholder while living., Section 66 lays the same burden
upon his estate. The purpose of the latter is to make the
estate liable for the comptroller's assessment, made after
the stockholder's death, just as it is liable for decedent's
indebtedness arising before he died. Zimmerman v. Carpenter, 84 Fed. 747, 751. Cf. Matteson v. Dent, 176 U. S.

WILOIL CORP. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
165

Syllabus.

521. The obligation continues unimpaired until valid
assignment of the shares by final distribution of the estate, if not by an earlier trafnsfer. Forrest v. Jack, decided this day, ante, p. 158. Our attention has not been
called to any South Carolina statute purporting to, and
the state supreme court did not hold that any law of the
State does, bar the enforcement of the assessment on the
ground it was not made before the discharge of the executor. The decree of the court by which he was discharged,
while having the effect of vacating the office, did not
operate to extinguish the estate, and so the administratrix
de bonis non with the will annexed became the personal
representative of the testator and is liable as the testator
would be if he were living and owned the stock. As suggested in Forrest v. Jack, supra, the enforcement of liability imposed by § 66 may not be thwarted or impeded
by state law. The state court failed to enforce that
liability. It should have held that petitioner is entitled
to judgment against the administratrix for the indebted.iess owing by the estate on account of the four shares
standing in the names of the minors, and that the judgment be enforced against property owned by testator
when he died and now held by his children'and grandchildren. Matteson v. Dent, supra. McNair v. Howle,
123 S. C. 252, 268; 116 S. E. 279. Columbia Theological
Seminary v. Arnette, 168 S. C. 272, 277, et seq.; 167 S. E.
465.
Reversed.
WILOIL CORPORATION v. PENNSYLVANIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 439.

Argued January 14, 1935.-Decided February 4, 1935.

1. If goods carried from one State have reached their destination in
another and there are held in original packages for sale, the latter
State has power to tax them, without discrimination, as it does

