MAYO v. UNITED STATES.
436

Counsel for Parties.

issues as does the question of identity previously discussed. Burnet v. Commonwealth Improvement Co.,
supra, 418, 419-20.
___________Affirmed.

MAYO

r AL. v. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 726.

Argued April 16, 1943.-Decided June 1, 1943.

1. The United States owned the fertilizer which it shipped into Florida
for distribution pursuant to the Soil Conservation and Domestic
Allotment Act, and in respect of such distribution was acting in a
governmental capacity. P. 444.
2. A State is without Constitutional power to exact an inspection
fee-although the design of the inspection service was to protect
consumers from fraud-in respect of fertilizer which the United
States owns and is distributing within the State pursuant to provisions of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act. Const.,
Art. VI. P. 447.
3. The instrumentalities and property of the United States used by it
in governmental activities are immune from state taxation or regulation, unless Congress affirmatively provides otherwise. P. 448.
47 F. Supp. 552, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of a District Court of three
judges enjoining state officers from enforcing against the
United States the provisions of the Florida Commercial
Fertilizer Law.

Messrs. Win. C. Pierce and James H. Millican, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of Florida, with whom Messrs.
J. Tom Watson, Attorney General of Florida, and H. E.
Carterwere on the brief, for appellants.
Assistant Attorney General Shea, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. Sidney J. Kaplan,Martin Norr
and Richard S. Salant were on the brief, for the United
States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Messrs. William N. McQueen, Acting Attorney General
of Alabama, Eugene Stanley, Attorney General of Louisiana, Harry McMullan, Attorney General of North
Carolina, and Thomas J. Herbert, Attorney General of
Ohio, on behalf of their respective States, as amici curiae,
adopted the brief of appellants.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This record presents for review the action of a specially
constituted district court in enjoining, on final hearing, the
Commissioner of Agriculture of the State of Florida and
his agents from enforcing against the United States the
provisions of the Florida Commercial Fertilizer Law.
Judicial Code, § § 266 and 238.
By this Florida act the sale or distribution of commercial fertilizer is comprehensively regulated. There is included a requirement of a label or stamp on each bag
evidencing the payment of an inspection fee. Unless so
identified, the bags may be seized and sold by the sheriff
of the county. The purpose of the legislation is to assure
the consumers that they will obtain the quality of fertilizer
for which they pay and that substances deleterious to the
land will be excluded from the material sold. Florida
Statutes, 1941, c. 576.
The United States, under the direction of the Secretary
of Agriculture, acting under the provisions of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act,1 purchased commercial fertilizer outside of Florida and undertook its distribution to consumers within that state during the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1943, without state inspection and
without paying for or affixing to the bags the inspection
stamps required by the Florida act. This distribution was
a part of the national soil conservation program.2 Through
149 Stat. 163, 1148; 50 Stat. 329; 55 Stat. 257, 860; 56 Stat. 664.
2 §§

7 and 8 of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act,

as amended.

MAYO v. UNITED STATES.
441

Opinion of the Court.

the use of fertilizers with a high content of superphosphate
on winter legumes the plan sought, by plowing under the
legumes, to obtain scarce nitrogen for the commercial crops
which were to follow. To secure a heavy'growth of the
legumes before plowing time, the fertilizer should be applied and the legumes planted prior to October 15th.
Farmers who desire to participate in the conservation program follow the required practices under the supervision of
county committees or associations which are federal instrumentalities for carrying out the plans. § 8 (b).
The soil-building and soil-conserving practices, when
carried out by a participating farmer, entitle him to a
grant or benefit payment. § 8. In order that the farmer
may earn this grant, phosphate fertilizers are furnished
to him in advance by the Government through the county
committee. The cost is deducted from the grant. For
the purpose of carrying out the program, the United
States caused fertilizers purchased by its agents to be
shipped into Florida to the local agricultural associations
for such distribution. As the sacks were without stamps,
the Florida Commissioner of Agriculture on September 10,
1942, gave a "stop sale" notice to the county agricultural
association to cease distribution.
The Attorney General of the United States'directed the
filing of a complaint against the Florida officials who are
charged with the enforcement of the Florida law. The
complaint set out the "stop sale" notice, the refusal of
numerous persons utilized by the United States in its work
to proceed with the distribution of the fertilizer without
the protection of an injunction, the frustration of the conservation program of the Secretary of Agriculture, the imminency of irreparable damage because of the necessity of
prompt distribution of the fertilizer and the lack of any
efficient remedy other than a temporary and permanent
injunction. Florida objected to the complaint for failure
to state a cause of action and set up numerous defenses
531559--44----32

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

which have now been reduced by the specification of errors
and the brief to the fundamental one that the United
States as to'fertilizer to be used upon Florida soil is not
exempt by Constitution or statute from compliance with
reasonable state regulation or the payment of reasonable
inspection fees. At any rate, it is urged, inspection fees
may be collected under the facts heretofore stated as the
Government is merely a conduit or service agent for the
fertilizer manufacturer or the Florida farmer.
The District Court disposed, we think, of the conduit
or service agent argument by its finding that the Government "became the owner" of the fertilizer at the'manufacturing plants which are outside the state and was
engaged in distributing it in Florida as a part of the national soil conservation program. In promoting soil conservation by precept and demonstration through the Department of Agriculture, the United States, as in its other
authorized activities, acts in a governmental capacity."
Prior to the Soil Conservation Act, Congress had, as a
matter of custom, put money and responsibility in the
hands of the executive to promote agriculture in the most
general sense. It is commonplace for appropriations to
be made for loans to farmers." The distribution of fertilizer owned by the United States as a charge against
grants to aid soil conservation is of the same character.
§ 8 (b). Cf. United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, 65, 68.
No inference of fact or conclusion of law, we think, can be
properly drawn from the circumstances of this fertilizer
3Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, 477; Pittman
v. Home Owners' Loan Corp., 308 U. S.21, 32; FederalLand Bank v.
Bismarck Co., 314 U. S.95, 102.
' Establishment of the Department of Agriculture, 12 Stat. 387; of
colleges of agriculture, 26 Stat. 417; Federal Farm Loan Act, 39 Stat.
360, 40 Stat. 431; Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, 42 Stat. 1454;
Federal Farm Board, 46 Stat. 11; boll weevil grant, 45 Stat. 539, 565.

MAYO v. UNITED STATES.
441

Opinion of the Court.

distribution other than that the United States was the
owner of the fertilizer in Florida awaiting distribution.
The other findings are substantially in accord with the
allegations of the complaint and are not contested. The
District Court, one judge dissenting, enjoined the application of Florida law to the above described acts of
the United States on the ground of federal immunity
from state regulation.
Since the United States is a government of delegated
powers, none of which may be exercised throughout the
Nation by any one state, it is necessary for uniformity
that the laws of the United States be dominant over
those of any state. Such dominancy is required also to
avoid a breakdown of administration through possible
conflicts arising from inconsistent requirements. The
supremacy clause of the Constitution states this essential principle. Article VI. A corollary to this principle
is that the activities of the Federal Government are free
from regulation by any state.' No other adjustment of
competing enActments or legal principles is possible.
Appellants' argument in support of the inspection fee
is that neither the Constitution nor any federal statute
exempts the United States from paying reasonable state
inspection fees to support permissible regulation of commercial fertilizer. Such inspections are allowable where
the United States is not the owner. Patapsco Guano Co.
v. North Carolina,171 U. S. 345; Red "C" Oil Co. v. North
Carolina,222 U. S. 380, 392. Appellants urge that since
they are allowable to protect the farmers against the
imposition of fertilizers of quality possibly inferior to the
manufacturers' representations, the inspection fee should
5 McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 427; Ohio v. Thomas, 173
U. S. 276, 283; Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U.. S.
664, 667; Johnson v. Maryland, 254 U. S. 51; Arizona v. California,283
U. S. 423, 451.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

be paid on fertilizers distributed by the United States,
where the federal law is silent as to any exemption on the
ground of sovereignty. Reliance is placed upon Graves
v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466.
It lies within Congressional power to authorize regulation, including taxation, by the state of federal instrumentalities.6 No such permission is granted here. Compare
56 Stat. 664. Congress may protect its agencies from
the burdens of local taxation.! There are matters of
local concern within the scope of federal power which in
the silence of Congress may be regulated in such manner
as does not impair national uniformity. There are federal activities which in the absence of specific Congressional consent may be affected by state regulation."
Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, supra, upon which
appellants rely so strongly, is in this latter group. In
that case, an employee of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, a Federal agency which was assumed to have
the same immunity from state taxation as the United
States itself, sought exemption from New York's income
tax on the ground that a tax upon the employee's salary
imposed an unconstitutional burden upon the Federal
Government. This position was not without precedent."
Upon full rebxamination of the authorities and the reasoning upon which the earlier cases had allowed the em6 Owensboro NationalBank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664, 667; Baltimore NationalBank v. Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 209; Pacific Coast Dairy
v. Dept. of Agriculture,318 U. S. 285, 296.
T
Pittman v. Home Owners' Loan Corp., 308 U. S. 21, and cases
cited.
8 Standard Dredging Corp. v. Murphy, ante, p. 306; California v.
Thompson, 313 U. S. 109.

9Alabama v. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1, 9, and cases cited.

10 Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall.
113; New York ex tel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401; Brush v. Commissioner, 300 U. S.352.

MAYO v. UNITED STATES.
441

Opinion of the Court.

ployees of one sovereignty freedom from the exactions
of the other, this Court declared that in the absence of a
federal declaration of immunity from state taxation, no
such "tangible or certain economic burden is imposed on
the [United States] as would justify a court's declaring
that the [employee] is clothed with the implied constitutional tax immunity of the government by which he is
employed." Page 486.
These inspection fees are laid directly upon the United
States. They are money exactions the payment of which,
if they are enforceable, would be required before executing a function of government. Such a requirement is
prohibited by the supremacy clause. We are not dealing
as in Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, supra,with a tax
upon the salary of an employee, or as in Alabama v. King
& Boozer, 314 U. S. 1, with a tax upon the purchases of a
supplier, or as in Penn Dairies v. Milk Control Comm'n,
318 U. S.261, with price control exercised over a contractor with the United States. In these cases the exactions
directly affected persons who were acting for themselves
and not for the United States. These fees are like a tax
upon the right to carry on the business of the post office
or upon the privilege of selling United States bonds
through federal officials. Admittedly the state inspection service is to protect consumers from fraud but in carrying out such protection, the federal function must be
left free. 1 This freedom is inherent in sovereignty. The
silence of Congress as to the subjection of its instrumentalities, other than the United States, to local taxation or
regulation is to be interpreted in the setting of the appli11Similar conclusions have been reached in adjacent fields. The state
is powerleps to punish its citizens for acts done in exclusively federal
territory. Pacific Coast Dairy v. Dept. of Agriculture, 318 U. S. 285.
A state cannot tax land of the United States situated within the state
even though the state has not ceded sovereignty to the United States.
Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S.151, 177.

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Statement of the Caw.

cable legislation and the particular exaction.

319 U. S.

Shaw v.

Gibson-Zahniser Oil Corp., 276 U. S. 575, 578. But
where, as here, the governmental action is carried on by
the United States itself and Congress does not affirmatively declare its instrumentalities or property subject to
regulation or taxation, the inherent freedom continues.

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the result.

FREEMAN v. BEE MACHINE CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 707. Argued May 4, 5, 1943.-Decided June 1, 1943.
1. A federal court having jurisdiction of a cause removed from a
state court may allow such an amendment of the complaint as
could have been made had the suit originated in the federal court,
even though the amendment could not have been made had the
suit remained in the state court. P. 451.
2. After removal to the federal District Court of an action for breach
of contract, begun in a state court against a nonresident defendant
upon whom process was personally served within the State, the
defendant entered a general appearance, defended on the merits,
and filed a counterclaim. Held that the defendant was "found"
within the district so as to give the District Court power to allow
the complaint to be amended by adding a cause of action under
§ 4 of the Clayton Act. P. 453.
3. The Rules of Civil Procedure, which permit joinder of claims,
Rule 18, and provide for amendment of pleadings, Rule 15, are
applicable to removed cases and "govern all procedure after removal," Rule 81 (c). P. 454.
4. Rule 5 of the Rules of Civil Procedure permits service of an
amended complaint to be made upon the attorney for the defendant. P. 455.
131 F. 2d 190, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 752, to review a judgment vacat-

ing a judgment of the District Court which granted a mo-

