COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 239
Counsel for Parties.

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION v.
NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO., INC. (KOA)
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 585. Argued April 8, 9, 1943.--Decided May 17, 1943.
1. The proprietor of a broadcasting station whose license from the
Federal Communications Commission entitles him to employ a
specified frequency and a specified power and assigns to him a clear
channel at night free from electrical interference is entitled under
§ 312 (b) of the Federal Communications Commission Act to be
made a party to a proceeding before the Commission looking to the
granting of an application of another station opefating upon the
same frequency for an increase of power and for the right to operate
at night, the effect of which may be by electrical interference to
deprive the first licensee of his clear channel, thus modifying his
license. P. 243.
2. Error of the Federal Communications Commission in denying the
first licensee the right to intervene in such proceedings was not
cured by permission to file a brief and present oral argument. P. 246.
3. In the situation above stated, the first licensee was entitled by
§ 402 (b) (2) of the Act to appeal to the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia from the action of the Commission in denying
to him the right to intervene and from the order of the Commission
granting the application to the other licensee. P. 246.
132 F. 2d 545, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

317 U. S. 624, to review a judgment of the

United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia reversing an order of the Federal Communications
Commission.
Mr. PaulA. Freund, with whom Solicitor General Fahy

and Mr. HarryM. Plotkin were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. PhilipJ. Hennessey, Jr., with whom Messrs. Karl A.
Smith and A. L. Ashby were on the brief, for respondents.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

Mu.

JUSTICE

319 U. S.

ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents important questions of procedure
arising under Title III of the Communications Act of
1934.1

The respondent is licensed to operate station KOA at
Denver, Colorado, on a frequency of 850 kilocycles. Station WHDH, of Boston, Massachusetts, had a license to
operate, daytime only, on the same frequency. October
25,1938, WHDH applied to the Communications Commission for an increase in power and for operation unlimited
in time. The Commission set down the application and
designated certain issues for hearing, of which the following are pertinent: To determine whether the interests of
any other stations may be adversely affected by reason of
interference, particularly KOA and other named stations;
to determine whether public interest, convenience or
necessity would be served by modifying the rules governing standard broadcast stations to authorize the proposed
operation of WHDH.
The Commission's rules precluded the operation of a
second station at night on KOA's frequency; 2 provided
that an application not filed in accordance with its regulations would be deemed defective, would not be considered,
and would be returned to the applicant; "and also that if
an applicant desired to challenge the validity or wisdom
of any rule or regulation he must submit a petition setting
forth the desired change and the reasons in support
thereof."
The respondent petitioned to intervene. Its petition
was denied. It then moved to dismiss WHDH's applicaI Act of June 19, 1934, c. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 1081; 47 U. S. C. § 301 ff.
§§ 3.22 and 3.25.
a§1.72.
§ 1.71.
2

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 241
239

Opinion of the Court.

tion for failure to conform to the rules and regulations.
The motion was denied. Meantime the Commission evidently believing that, in view of the possible alteration of
the rules concerning standard broadcast stations, questions of policy might be involved and that, consequently,
under § 409 (a), the hearing would have to be conducted
by a member of the Commission,' designated Commissioner Case to conduct the hearing.
No hearing was held under the original notice. A new
notice was issued which indicated that the Commission
did not then contemplate modification of its substantive
rules but intended merely to afford the applicant an opportunity to urge that they be construed in the applicant's favor. Issues specified in the second notice were "to
determine whether or not the Commission's Rules Governing Standard Broadcast Stations, particularly Sections
3.22 and 3.25 (Part III) properly interpreted and applied
preclude the granting of the application" and to determine
the nature, extent, and effect of any interference which
would result from a grant of the application, particularly
with station KOA and others named. The inquiry thus
limited could be heard before an examiner under § 409 (a)
and, accordingly, the Commission withdrew. the designation of Commissioner Case and assigned an examiner.
A hearing was held January 29 and 30, 1940, but the respondent was not permitted to appear or participate.
December 9, 1940, the Commission promulgated proposed
findings of fact and conclusions. Two commissioners dissented. All agreed that §§ 3.22 and 3.25 of the regulations precluded a grant of WHDH's application. Three
voted to modify those regulations and. to grant the
SSec. 409 (a), 47 U. S. C. § 409 (a) provides that, in the administration of Tit. III, an examiner may not hold bearings with respect to
a matter involving a change of policy by the Commission or a new kind
of use of frequencies.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

application. Respondent then filed its second petition
to intervene, which was denied. The Commission subsequently, on its own-motion, permitted respondent to file
briefs and present an oral argument amicus curiae. April
7, 1941, the Commission adopted a final order amending
§ 3.25 of the rules and granting the WHDH application,
two commissioners dissenting.
Respondent filed a petition for rehearing pursuant to
§405 of the Act.' This was denied. Thereupon respondent gave notice of appeal to the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia, ' which concluded that the Commission's action effected a modification of respondent's
license and consequently the statute entitled the respondent to be made a party and to participate in the hearing.
The court below therefore reversed the Commission's
order and remanded the case for further proceedings.'
. The respondent contends that it was entitled, as a matter of right, to participate in the hearing before the Commission on the question of the granting of WHDH's
application and that its rights in this respect were not
satisfied by permitting it to file a brief and present argument. It further insists that the Commission's proceeding was invalid due to the provisions of § 409 (a) of the
statute, the failure to comply with the rules then in force,
and the arbitrary and capricious action taken. Finally,
the respondent asserts §405 entitled it to a rehearing and
§ 402 (b) (2) granted it an appeal.
The petitioner urges that the grant of WHDH's application did not amount to a substantial modification of
KOA's license or so affect KOA's rights as to require that
KOA be permitted to intervene, and that, in any event,
KOA was not denied any substantial right of participation in the proceeding.
047

U. S. C. § 405.

7 Pursuant to § 402 (b) (2); 47 U. S. C. § 402 (b) (2).
s 132 F. 2d 545.

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 243
239

Opinion of the Court.

First. We are of opinion that respondent was entitled
to be made a party.

Section 312 (b) of the Act provides:
"Any station license hereafter granted . . . may be
modified by the Commission . .. , if in the judgment of

the Commission such action will promote the public interest, convenience, and necessity ...

Provided, however,

That no such order of modification shall become final until
the holder of such outstanding license

....

shall have

been notified in writing of the proposed action and the
grounds or reasons therefor and shall have been given
reasonable opportunity to show cause why such an order
of modification should not issue."
The Commission found that there would be interference
with KOA's broadcast in the*eastern part of the United
States if WHDH's application were granted. The Commission's own reports to Congress show that at night a
small proportion of the urban population and a much
larger proportion of the rural population of the country
enjoy only such broadcasting service as is afforded by clear
channel stations. KOA, one of the stations upon which
this service depends, has operated continuously at Denver
since 1924 and has used a clear channel upon which only
one station is permitted to operate during the night.
Under the Commission's regulations (§§ 3.22 and 3.25)
KOA had, therefore, little or no channel interference from
any station located within the United States. In addition,
its signals throughout the United States were free, and
entitled to remain free, of channel interference from any
station in Canada, Mexico or Cuba, pursuant to the provisions of the North American Regional Broadcasting
Agreement. 9 The Commission's order deprives KOA of
freedom from interference in its night service over a large
area lying east of the Mississippi -River. . Furthermore,
the order opens the way for Canada, Mexico, and Cuba,
955 Stat., Part 2, 1005.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

signatories to the broadcasting agreement, to acquire the
right to operate stations which may cause channel interference at night on KOA's frequency within the United
States.
The respondent urges that it can be shown that the
service of WHDH, while interfering at night with that of
KOA, would not be a service equally useful, and that the
grant to WHDH adds a new primary service to an area
already heavily supplied with such service. In its petitions to intervene, the respondent called attention to the
terms of its existing license, asserting that the grant of
WHDH's application would cause interference in areas
where KOA's signal was interference free; that respondent would be aggrieved and its interests adversely affected
by a grant of the application and that the operation proposed by WHDH would not be in the interest of public
convenience and necessity; that a grant of the application would result in a modification of respondent's license
in violation of § 312 (b) and would result in a modification
of the Commission's regulations without such a hearing as
is required by § 303 (f) of the Act. In its petition for
rehearing, the respondent elaborated and reiterated the
reasons embodied in its motions for dismissal of the petition and in its petitions to intervene.
The Commission says that the section has no application to this case. It asserts that the proceeding was an
application by WHDH for modification of its station
license and that, under § 309 (a) of the Act, the Commission might have acted on the application without any hearing. So much may be conceded, if nothing more were
involved. But the grant of WHDH's application, in the
circumstances, necessarily involved the modification of
KOA's outstanding license. This petitioner denies, saying KOA's license granted no more than the privilege of
operating its station in a prescribed manner and that the
grant of WHDH's application in nowise altered the terms

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 245
239

Opinion of the Court.

of KOA's license. This contention stems from the circumstance that KOA's license authorizes it to operate a transmitter of 50 kilowatts on the frequency 850 kilocycles at
Denver. The petitioner says that the grant of WHDH's
application affects none of these terms. But we think this
too narrow a view. When KOA's license was granted the
Commission's rules §§ 3.21 and 3.25 embodied these
provisions:
"A 'clear channel' is one on which the dominant station
or stations render service over wide areas and which are
cleared of objectionable interference within their primary
service areas and over all or a substantial portion of their
secondary service areas."
"The frequencies in the following tabulation are designated as clear channels and assigned for use by the classes
of stations are given:
"(a) To each of the channels below there will be assigned one class I station and there may be assigned one or
more class II stations operating limited time or daytime
only: . . . The power of the class I stations on these channels shall not be less than 50 kilowatts."
850 kilocycles was one of the frequencies appearing on
the schedule forming part of the rule.
These rules were incorporated into the terms of KOA's
license which granted it a frequency of 850 kilocycles and
a power of 50 kilowatts. To alter the rules so as to deprive KOA of what had been assigned to it, and to grant
an application which would create interference on the
channel given it, was in fact and in substance to modify
KOA's license. This being so, § 312 (b) requires that it
be made a party to the proceeding. We can accord no
other meaning to the language of the proviso which requires that the holder of the license which is to be modified must have notice in writing of the proposed action
and the grounds therefor and must be given a reasonable

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

opportunity to show cause why an order of modification
should not issue. Certainly one who is to be notified of
a hearing and to have the right to show cause is'not to be
considered a stranger to the proceeding but is, by the very
provisions of the statute, to be made a party. The very
notices issued by the Commission show that that body
knew there would probably be an interference with KOA's
signals if the pending application of WHDH were
granted; and that the Commission also realized there was
a serious question whether the application could be
granted under its existing rules. It is not necessary to
discuss at any length the sufficiency of the petitions to
intervene if, as we have held, the Act itself provided that,
in such an instance as the present, KOA was entitled to be
brought inas a party. A licensee cannot show cause unless it is afforded opportunity to participate in the hearing, to offer evidence, and to exercise the other rights of
a party.
Much is said to the effect that KOA was not in fact injured, because the Commission permitted it to file a brief
amicus curiae and to present oral argument. It is beside
the point to discuss the Commission's rules as to intervention and the privileges accorded by the Commission to one
denied intervention, since we are of opinion, as already
stated, that, under the terms of the Act, the respondent
was entitled to participate in the proceedings.
Second. While the Commission did not urge before the
court below, and did not advance as a reason for the grant
of certiorari, that respondent was not entitled to appeal
to the Court of Appeals, this matter was argued here and,
as it raises a question of jurisdiction, we shall consider it.
It would be anomalous if one entitled to be heard before
the Commission should be denied the right of appeal from
an order made without hearing. We think the Act does
not preclude such an appeal. Section 402 (b) (2) permits
an appeal to the Court of Appeals for the District of Co-

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 247
239

Opinion of the Court.

lumbia by "any... person aggrieved or whose interests
are adversely affected by any decision of the Commission
granting or refusing" any application for modification
of an existing station license. If, within the intent of
the statute, the interests of KOA would be adversely
affected, or if KOA would be aggrieved by granting the
application of WHDH, then the statute grants KOA a
right of appeal.
In Federal Communications Commission v. Sanders
Bros. Radio Station, 309 U. S. 470, we dealt with a similar
situation. There the question was whether a rival station, which would suffer economic injury by the grant of
a license to another station, had standing to appeal under
the terms of the Act. We held that it had. We pointed
out that while a station license was not a property right,
and while the Commission was not bound to give controlling weight to economic injury to an existing station consequent upon the issuance of a license to another station,
yet economic injury gave the existing station standing to
present questions of public interest and 'convenience by
appeal from the order of the Commission. Here KOA,
while not alleging economic injury, does allege that its
license ought not to be modified because such action would
cause electrical interference which would be detrimental
to the public interest.
In view of the fact that § 312 (b) grants KOA the right
to become a party to the proceedings, we think it plain
that it is a party aggrieved, or a party whose interests will
be adversely affected by the grant of WHDH's application,
as indeed the Commission seems to have thought when it
first noticed WHDH's application for hearing. We, therefore, hold KOA was entitled to appeal from the Commission's action in excluding it from participation in the
proceeding and from the order made by the Commission.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR.
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting:

Unlike courts, which are concerned primarily with the
enforcement of private rights although public interests
may thereby be implicated, administrative agencies are
predominantly concerned with enforcing public rights although private interests may thereby be affected. To no
small degree administrative agencies for the enforcement
of public rights were established by Congress because
more flexible and less traditional procedures were called
for than those evolved by the courts. It is therefore essential to the vitality of the administrative process that
the procedural powers given to these administrative ageincies not be confined within the conventional modes by
which business is done in courts.
In my judgment the decision of the Court in this case
imposes a hampering restriction upon the functioning of
the administrative process. This is the aspect that lends
this case importance and leads me to express the reasons
for my dissent.
The Communications Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, 47
U. S. C. § 151 et seq., directs the Federal Communications
Commission to "classify radio stations," "prescribe the nature of the service to be rendered by each class of licensed
stations and each station within any class," and "assign
bands of frequencies to the various classes of stations, and
assign frequencies for each individual station and determine the power which each station shall use and the time
during which it may operate." § 303 (a) (b) (c). Accordingly, the Commission has established a plan for allocating
the available radio facilities among the stations of the
country.. Under its Rules there are three classes of standard broadcast channels: "clear channels," on which domi-

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 249
239

FRANKFUnmT,

J., dissenting.

nant stations render service over extensive areas and which
are cleared of objectionable interference within their primary service areas and over all or a substantial part of
their secondary service areas; "regional channels," on
which several stations serving smaller areas operate simultaneously with powers not in excess of 5 kilowatts; and
"local channels," on which many stations serving local
areas operate simultaneously with powers not in excess
of 250 watts. § 3.21. Similarly, standard broadcast
stations are classified into four groups: "class I stations"dominant stations operating on clear channels and designed to render primary and secondary service over large
areas and at relatively long distances; "class II stations"-operating on clear channels and designed to
render service over a primary service area which is limited
by and subject to such interference as may be received
from class I stations; "class III stations"-operating on
regional channels and designed to render service primarily
to metropolitan districts and the rural areas contiguous
thereto; and "class IV stations"-operating on local channels and designed to render service primarily to cities or
towns and the suburban and rural areas contiguous
thereto. § 3.22. Section 3.25 divides clear channels into
two further groups: I-A channels, to which only one class
I station is assigned, with one or more class II stations
operating limited time or daytime only, and I-B channels,
to which both class I and class II stations may be assigned,
with more than one station operating at night.
On October 25, 1938, Station WHDH in Boston, Massachusetts, a class II station licensed to operate during
the daytime only on the frequency 830 kilocycles (a class
I-A channel) with power of 1 kilowatt, applied to the
Commission for modification of its license so that it could
operate both night and day on that frequency with increased power of 5 kilowatts. At that time Station KOA
in Denver, Colorado, was the dominant class I station

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

on the frequency 830 kilocycles, operating unlimited time
with power of 50 kilowatts. Since the Commission's Rules
provided for the assignment of only one station to operate
at night on the frequency 830 kilocycles, the WHDH application could not be granted without amendment of
§ 3.25.
Section 309 (a) of the Act specifies the procedure which
the Commission must follow in passing upon applications
for modification of licenses, such as that of WHDH: "If
upon examination of any application for . . . modification of a station license the Commission shall determine
that public interest, convenience, or necessity would be
served by the granting thereof, it shall authorize . . .
modification thereof in accordance with said finding. In
the event the Commission upon examination of any such
application does not reach such decision with respect
thereto, it shall notify the applicant thereof, shall fix and
give notice of a time and place for hearing thereon, and
shall afford such applicant an opportunity to be heard
under such rules and regulations as it may prescribe."
The Commission, upon its examination of the WHDH
application, was unable to find that a grant would serve
the public interest, convenience, or necessity. The application was therefore, on September 2, 1939, designated
for hearing. Three weeks later, on September 23, 1939,
KOA filed a petition to intervene. Its petition, in substance, alleged only that the proposed operation of WHDH
would."cause interference to station KOA in areas where
KOA's signal is now interference free," that KOA "would
be aggrieved and its interests adversely affected" by the
proposed operation, and that a grant of the WHDH application would not be in the public interest, convenience,
or necessity.
The Court holds that the Commission was required as
a matter of law to grant KOA's petition to intervene in
the hearing upon the WHDH application. In my judg-

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 251
239

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

ment the Act precludes such a construction.

Section

4 (j) provides that the Commission "may conduct its proceedings in such manner as will best conduce to the proper
dispatch of business and to the ends of justice"; § 303 (r)
authorizes it to make "such rules and regulations and prescribe such restrictions and conditions, not inconsistent
.with law, as may be necessary to carry out the provisions
of this Act." We have held that by force of these provisions "the -ubordinate questions of procedure in ascertaining the public interest, when the Commission's licensing
authority is invoked-the scope of the inquiry, whether
applications should be heard contemporaneously or successively, whether parties should be allowed to intervene
in one another's proceedings, and similar questions-were
explicitly and by implication left to the Commission's own
devising, so long, of course, as it observes the basic requirements designed for the protection of private as well as
public interest." Federal Communications Comm'n v.
Pottsville BroadcastingCo., 309 U. S. 134, 138.
The breadth of discretion entrusted to the Commission
is limited, however, by §§ 303 (f) and 312 (b). The
former provides that "changes in the frequencies, authorized power, or in the times of operation of any station,
shall not be made without the consent of the station
licensee unless, after a public hearing, the Commission
shall determine that such changes will promote public
convenience or interest or will serve public necessity, or the
provisions of this Act will be more fully complied with."
Section 312 (b) authorizes the Commission to modify
outstanding station licenses "if in the judgment of the
Commission such action will promote the public interest,
convenience, and necessity, or the provisions of this Act
or of any treaty ratified by the United States will be more
fully complied with: Provided, however, That no such
order of modification shall become final until the holder of
such outstanding license or permit shall have been notified
531559-44-2o

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FrtANKFURm, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

in writing of the proposed action and the grounds or
reasons therefor and shall have been given reasonable
opportunity to show cause why such an order of modification should not issue."
The procedural scheme established by the statute is thus
clear: if application is made for a station license, or for
modification or renewal of a license, the Commission may
grant such application without a hearing if it finds, upon
examination of the application, that a grant would be in
the public interest. If it is unable to reach such a determination from its study of the application, it must afford
the applicant a "hearing." § 309 (a). If a Commission
order involves a change in the frequency, authorized
power, or hours of operation of an existing station without
its consent, such licensee is entitled to a "public hearing."
§ 303 (f). If a Commission order involves "modification"
of an outstanding license, presumably something other
than a change in frequency, power, or hours of operation,
the modification order cannot become effective until the
licensee is given notice in writing and a "reasonable opportunity to show cause why such an order of modification
should not issue." § 312 (b). It is relevant here, also,
that under § 312 (a) a Commission order revoking a station license cannot take effect "until fifteen days' notice
in writing thereof, stating the cause for the proposed revocation, has been given to the licensee. Such licensee may
make written application to the Commission at any time
within said fifteen days for a hearing upon such order, and
upon the filing of such written application said order of
revocation shall stand suspended until the conclusion of
the hearing conducted under such rules as the Commission may prescribe. Upon the conclusion of said hearing
the Commission may affirm, modify, or revoke said order
of revocation." The Act explicitly provides for a "hearing," therefore, when the Commission proposes to deny
an application for a license, or to revoke a license, or to

COMMUNICATIONS CO-\'I'N v. N. B. C.
239

FRANKFURTEIR,

253

J., disseniting.

change the frequency, power, or hours of operation of a
station licensee. But when a Commission order merely
involves "modification" of the license of an existing station, the latter is entitled only to notice in writing and a
,'reasonable opportunity to show cause" why the order
should not issue.
The Commission has exercised the authority given it by
Congress to formulate its administrative procedure. Section 1.102 of its Rules, relating to intervention in Commission proceedings by interested parties, provides as
follows:
"Petitions for intervention must set forth the grounds
of the proposed intervention, the position and interest of
the petitioner in the proceeding; the facts on which the
petitioner bases his claim that his intervention will be in
the public interest, and must be subscribed or verified in
accordance with section 1.122. The granting of a petition to intervene shall have the effect of permitting intervention before the Commission but shall not be considered
as any recognition of any legal or equitable right or interest in the proceeding. The granting of such petition shall
not have the effect of changing or enlarging the issues
which shall be those specified in the Commission's notice
of hearing unless on motion the Commission shall amend
the same."
Under-an earlier rule any person could intervene in a
Commission proceeding if his petition disclosed "a substantial interest in the subject matter." § 105.19, Commission's Rules and-Regulations (1935). The reasons for
the change in the Commission's intervention rule were
thus stated by the Attorney General's Committee on Administrative Procedure, Sen. Doc. No. 186, 76th Cong., 3d
Sess., Pt. 3, pp. 16-17: "The effects of this complete freedom of intervention [available under the old rule] upon
the Commission's activities were very marked. Not only
was the record unnecessarily prolonged by the discussion

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FP4iwKFuRTER, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

of noncontroversial issues, but the evidence relevant to
each issue was increased manyfold by virtue of the extended cross-examination of witnesses by each intervener.
More often than not the interveners presented no affirmative evidence on the issues at hand. The major functions served by them were apparently to impede the progress of the hearing, to increase the size of the record, and
to obfuscate the issues by prolonged and confusing crossexamination. Nor were these dilatory and destructive
tactics restricted to the hearing itself. Each intervener
would customarily avail himself of his rights to take exceptions to the examiner's report, to oral argument before the Commission, and, in many cases, to appeal from
the Commission's order to the District of Columbia Court
of Appeals. . . . If this [new] provision is enforced intelligently and forcefully, an important step will have
been taken both toward the protection of applicants and
the increase of the Commission's prestige." Compare In
re Hazelwood, Inc., 7 F. C. C. 443.
KOA's petition for intervention was denied, presumably because the showing required by § 1.102 had not
been made. And on January 29 and 30, 1940, a hearing
upon the WHDH application was held before an examiner
of the Commission. Although KOA was denied the right
to intervene, it could, under § 1.195 of the Commission's
Rules, have appeared and given evidence. That rule provides that the Secretary of the Commission shall maintain
"a record of all communications received by the Commission relating to the merits of any application pending before the Commission," and if the application is designated
for hearing, the Secretary must notify all persons who
have communicated with the Commission regarding the
application "in order that such persons will have an opportunity to appear and give evidence at such hearing."
Under this rule if KOA had appeared at the hearing upon
the WHDH application, it would have been entitled to

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C.
239

FRANKFUaTER,

255

J., dissenting.

present evidence relating to the matters raised in its petition for intervention. But, so far as the record before us
shows, it made no effort to take advantage of the right
of participation afforded it by § 1.195.
On December 9, 1940, the Commission issued proposed
findings and conclusions. Under these the Commission
found that the proposed operation of WHDH, with use of
a directional antenna, "would not cause any interference
to the primary service of Station KOA, Denver, Colorado,
and that such interference as the proposed operation of
WHDH might reasonably be expected to cause to reception of KOA would be limited to receivers in the eastern
half of the United States"; that the operation of WHDH
as proposed in its application would "enable it to deliver
service of primary signal quality to an area having a
population of 3,093,000 or to 621,000 more people than
are now included within the primary service area of the
station"; that by extending WHDH's hours of operation
"a new primary service to 94.9% of the Boston metropolitan area, including a population of 2,185,000," would be
provided; that, in addition to the improved service to
listeners in the Boston area, there would be "an improvement and extension of service which applicant station
[WHDH] now endeavors to render over the fishing banks
situated off the New England coast"; and that the public
interest would be served by amending § 3.25 of the Rules
so as to make the frequency 830 kilocycles a I-B channel, upon which more than one station could operate at
night, thereby permitting "more efficient use of the
frequency."
On December 16, 1940, KOA again petitioned to intervene. Its petition alleged only that the proposed action,
if adopted, would result in "interference to Station KOA
in areas where KOA's signals are now interference free,"
would constitute a modification of KOA's license without
affording it an opportunity to be heard, and would result in

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

"a degradation of service on 830 kc which will be prejudicial to the priority rights in the United States on this
channel, will discriminate against service to rural listeners
in order to furnish additional service to the City of Boston
which is already well served." KOA made no offer to
contradict or add to the evidence adduced at the hearing,
nor did it dispute the Commission's conclusions as to the
extent of the interference which KOA would suffer from
the proposed operation of WHDI-I. Accordingly, on
January 7, 1941, the Commission denied KOA's second
petition to intervene, but it permitted KOA, as well as
other "clear channel" stations interested in the proceeding, to participate in the oral argument before the Commission, and to file briefs amicus, in order to determine
whether the proposed findings should be made final.
Meanwhile, on January 23, 1941, the President proclaimed the North American Regional Broadcasting
Agreement, 55 Stat. 1005. The purpose of this Agreement, which was concluded at Havana on December 13,
1937, among Canada, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti,
Mexico, and the United States, was to "regulate and
establish principles covering the use of the standard
broadcast band in the North American Region so that
each country may make the most~effective use thereof
with the minimum technical interference between broadcast stations." The signatory Governments recognized
that "until technical developments reach a state permitting the elimination of radio interference of international
character, a regional arrangement between them is necessary in order to promote standardization and to minimize
interference." The Agreement established priorities in
the use of specified clear channels, sixty-three of which
were assigned to the United States, and provided that
each such channel "shall be used in a manner conforming
to the best engineering practice with due regard to the

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 257
239

FAiNKrURTE, J., dissenting.

service to be rendered by the dominant stations operating thereon."
In order to carry out the provisions of the Agreement,
the United States was obliged to make extensive adjustments in the assignments of its existing stations. As
part of the accommodations required, stations assigned
to the frequency 830 kilocycles were to be moved to 850
kilocycles. This change affected both WHDH and KOA.
The license of KOA, like that of all other standard broadcast stations, would have expired on August 1, 1940, while
the WHDH application was pending. The licenses of all
stations, including KOA and WHDH, were successively
extended by the Commission, first to October 1, 1940, and
then to March 29, 1941, the effective date of the Agreement. KOA had filed an application for renewal of its
license to operate on 830 kilocycles, 50 kilowatts, unlimited
time. On February 4, 1941, the Commission advised all
applicants for renewals, including KOA, that under the
Agreement, their operating assignments were to be
changed and that their applications for renewals would
be regarded as applications to operate upon the new frequencies, unless the applicant wished to operate upon
some other frequeftcy, in which event its application would
be designated for hearing. So far as appears, KOA did
not notify the Commission that it had any objection to its
renewal application being regarded as an application to
operate on the frequency 850 kilocycles. Accordingly,
when its license to operate on 830 kilocycles expired on
March 29, 1941, its license was renewed on the frequency
850 kilocycles. In no sense, therefore, did the action of
the Commission changing KOA's frequency assignment
pursuant to the North American Regional Broadcasting
Agreement constitute a modification of KOA's license.
And, indeed, KOA makes no such contention here, for
review of Commission orders modifying station licenses,

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANiKcNuam,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

upon the Commission's own motion, can be reviewed only
in a suit brought in a district court under § 402 (a).
See Scripps-Howard Radio v. Federal Communications
Comm'n, 316 U. S. 4, 8-9, note 3.
On March 26, 1941, three days before the Agreement was
to become effective, the Commission issued an order adopting the proposed findings and conclusions upon the WHDH
application, granting WHDH authority to operate on 850
kilocycles, with power of 5 kilowatts, day and night, and
amending § 3.25 of its Rules so as to make the frequency
850 kilocycles a I-B channel upon which more than one
station could operate at night. This order was made
effective April 7, 1941.
On April 25, 1941, KOA filed a petition for rehearing
before the Commission, repeating in substance the allegations contained in its earlier petitions to intervene. And
on May 20, 1941, the Commission, in an opinion that considered in detail each of the allegations in the petition
for rehearing, denied the petition. The Commission stated
that "in view of the importance of the matters involved
in this proceeding, we shall re-examine our findings and
conclusions and the record upon which, they are based."
In summary, it found that a grant of the WHDH application "would not result in interference to the primary service of Station KOA, Denver, Colorado, and that such interference to the reception of Station KOA as might reasonably be expected to result from a grant of the Matheson
[WHDH] application would occur in its secondary service
area and would be limited to receivers in the eastern half
of the United States, remote from the KOA transmitter;
that such secondary service as KOA could render in this
area would be of uncertain character because of its dependence upon the characteristics of the individual receiver,
the signal intensity and the signal to interference ratio involved in each individual case"; and "that although petitioner [KOA] contends it is entitled to serve the rural

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C.
239

FRANKFURTR, J.,

259

dissenting.

areas in which it is claimed interference will occur, it fails
to allege either that it has been providing a useful service
in such areas or point out, in terms of population, the
nature and extent of the claimed interference."
On June 7,1941, KOA filed an appeal from the Commission's order in the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia under § 402 (b) (2) of the Communications
Act of 1934. Section 402 (b) provides for appeals to the
Court from decisions of the Commission "in any of the
following cases: (1) By any applicant for a construction
permit for a radio station, or for a radio station license, or
for renewal of an _existing radio station license, or for
modification of an existing radio station license, whose application is refused by the Commission. (2) By any other
person aggrieved or whose interests are adversely affected
by any decision of the Commission granting or refusing
any such application."
The court below could not take jurisdiction of the suit
unless KOA had a right to appeal under § 402 (b) (2); in
other words, unless it was "aggrieved" or its "interests were
adversely affected" by the granting of the WHDH application. Since the Commission in exercising its licensing
function must be governed by the public interest and not
the private interest of existing licensees, an appellant
under § 402 (b) (2) appears only to vindicate the public
interest and not his own. Federal Communications
Comm'n v. Sanders Radio Station, 309 U. S. 470; ScrippsHoward Radio v. Federal Communications Comm'n, 316
U. S.4. That the Commission's order may impair the
value of an existing station's license is in itself no ground
for invalidating the order; it merely may create standing
to attack the validity of the order on other grounds. Whatever doubts may have existed as to whether the ingredients
of "case" or "controversy," as defined, for example, in
Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346, are present in
this situation were dispelled by our ruling in the Sanders

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
F ANKUmRR,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

case that the legality of a Commission order can be challenged by one "aggrieved" or "whose interests are adversely affected" thereby, even though the source of his
grievance is not what is claimed to make the order unlawful. But from this it must not be concluded that anyone
who claims to be "aggrieved" or who is in any way adversely affected by Commission action has a right to appeal. As the prevailing opinion in the Court of Appeals
pointed out: "In the present stage of radio, very few
changes, either in frequency or in power, can be made
without creating some degree of electrical interference.
This may range from minute and practically harmless interruption with remote and very occasional listeners in
secondary service areas to total obliteration in the primary field. . . . It seems not unreasonable to read the
[Sanders] opinion as requiring by implication that there
be probable injury of a substantial character. So much by
way of limitation seems necessary to prevent vindication
of the public interest from turning into mass appeals by
the industry at large, with resulting hopeless clogging of
the administrative process by judicial review. Likewise,
with electrical interference, it is hardly necessary to secure
appellate championship by every broadcaster who may
be affected in only a remote and insubstantial manner."
132 F. 2d'545, 548.
In order to establish its right to appeal, therefore, KOA
had to make a showing that its interests were substantially
impaired by a grant of the WHDH application. This,
the record makes clear, it failed to do. In its notice of
appeal to the court below, KOA made only a general allegation, what courts normally regard -as aconclusion of
law, that the Commission's action resulted in a "substantial modification" of its license. No supporting allegations of fact were tendered. There was no claim that
KOA's economic position was in any way impaired, or that
the proposed operation of WHDH would cause substan-

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 261
239

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

tial interference with KOA, or that such operation would
result in a substantial loss of listeners to KOA, or that
any areas of substantial size would no longer be able to
receive satisfactory service from KOA. Neither in its
petitions for intervention, nor in its petition for rehearing before the Commission, nor in its notice of appeal to
the court below, did KOA specifically challenge the correctness of the Commission's findings.
The record affords no basis, therefore, for finding that
KOA had standing to appeal from the grant of the
WHDH application. But even if it had, I do not believe that KOA was afforded less opportunity to participate in the proceedings before the Commission than the
statute requires. Assuming that the grant of the WHDH
application constituted a "modification" of KOA's license
in the sense that the scope of the operations authorized by
KOA's license was thereby limited, only § 312 (b) would
come into operation. Section 303 (f) is inapplicable because the grant of the WHDH application unquestionably did not change KOA's frequency, power, or hours of
operation. Both before and after the Commission's action, KOA's operating assignment was precisely the same:
850 kilocycles, 50 kilowatts, unlimited time. And so the
only question on this phase of the case is-was KOA afforded such opportunity of participation in the WHDH
proceeding as § 312 (b) requires? That section provides
that no order modifying the license of any existing station "shall become final until the holder of such outstanding license or permit shall have been notified in writing
of the proposed action and the grounds or reasons therefor and shall have been given reasonable opportunity to
show cause why such an order of modification should not
issue."
KOA does not claim that it did not have sufficient notice, formal and otherwise, of the proceedings upon the

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
F

uwRm,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

WHDII application. Nor can there be any doubt that it
had ample and "reasonable opportunity to show cause"
why WHDH's application should not-be granted. Under
§ 1.195 of the Commission's Rules it could have appeared
and given evidence at the hearing upon-the WHDH application. That it did not take advantage of such an
opportunity is certainly no reason for saying that it had
none. KOA was permitted to argue before the Commission that the proposed grant of- the WHDH application
should not be made final. It submitted a petition for rehearing which the Commission considered on its merits
and which the Commission denied only after a detailed
review of all the contentions made by KOA.
The Court holds, nevertheless, that the Commission was
required to afford KOA more than all these opportunities
to show cause. Section 312 (b) is construed to require a
hearing in which the licensee whose interests may be affected is entitled to intervene as a formal party. Such a
construction. appears to me to disregard the structure and
language of the legislative scheme. Congress might have
been explicit and provided in §312 (b) that every licensee
whose interests may be affected by Commission action
shall be entitled to a hearing as an intervenor in the proceeding. As has been noted, the draftsmen of the Communications Act of 1934 knew how to use apt words when
they wished to afford parties before the Commission the
right of "hearing." Section 309 (a) requires the Commission to afford an applicant for a license a "hearing," not
notice and an opportunity to show cause, before the application can be denied. Section 312 (a) gives a licensee
a "hearing," not notice and an opportunity to show cause,
before its license can be revoked. Section 303 (f) provides that the Commission cannot change the frequency,
authorized power, or times of operation of a licensee unless it affords such licensee a "public hearing," not merely
notice and an opportunity to show cause. But, for rea-

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 263
239

FRANKFmuT,

J., dissenting.

sons which it deemed sufficient, Congress did not choose
to make this technical requirement of a "hearing" in specifying the procedure for the protection of licensees who
might be affected by Commission action. Congress may
well have desired to avoid the litigious waste so abundantly established by the voluminous cases to which the
claim of intervention in courts has given rise. The requirement of notice and an opportunity to show cause is
not the equivalent of the requirement of a "hearing." By
imposing this requirement for the adequate protection of
substantial interests, Congress charged the .Commission
with the duty of devising appropriate procedure which
would "best conduce to the proper dispatch of business and
to'the ends of justice." § 4 (j).. The Commission's response was §§ 1.102 and 1.195 of its Rules.
Can it seriously be claimed that the Commission acted
beyond its authority in providing that before a licensee can
intervene in another proceeding he must indicate some
solid ground by setting forth "the facts on which the petitioner bases his claim that his intervention will be in the
public interest"? Otherwise anyone who asserts generally
that the grant of another's application will affect his license may become a party to a proceeding before the Commission and may, to the extent to which a party can shape
and distort the direction of a proceeding, gain all the opportunities that a party has to affect a litigation although
he has'not made even a preliminary showing. that his intervention will be in the public interest. I cannot read
the requirement for "reasonable opportunity to show
cause why such an order of modification should not issue"
as a denial to the Commission of power to make such a reasonable rule for sifting the responsibility of potential intervenors. And if the Commission's rule for intervention
was within its discretionary authority in formulating appropriate rules of procedure for the conduct of its proceedings, it is equally clear that the Commission, in the'

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DouGLAs,

J., dissenting.

319 U.S.

circumstances of this particular case, was justified in find-

ing that KOA made no substantial claim that the grant of
the WHDH application would impair KOA's economic
interests or entail a substantial loss of listeners or make any
appreciable inroads upon any areas served by KOA or
otherwise substantially affect its interest or that of the
public.
To deny to the Commission the right to require a preliminary showing, such as was found wanting here, before
admitting a petitioner to the full rights of a party litigant
is to fasten upon the Commission's administrative process
the technical requirements evolved by courts for the adjudication of controversies over private interests. See
FederalCommunications Comm'n v. Pottsville Broadcasting Co., 309 U. S. 134, 142-44. It is to assume that the
modes familiar to courts for the protection of substantial
interests are the only permissible modes, regardless of the
nature of the subject matter and the tribunals charged
with administration of the law. This is to read the discretion given to the Federal Communications Commission
to fashion a procedure relevant to the interests for the adjustment of which the Commission was established
through the distorting spectacles of what has been found
appropriate for courts. We must assume that an agency
which Congress has trusted is worthy of the trust. And
especially when sitting in judgment upon procedure devised by the Commission for the fair protection of both
public and private interests, we must view what the Commission has done with a generous and not a jealous eye.
MR.

JUSTICE

DOUGLAS,

dissenting:

While I am in substantial agreement with the views
expressed by MR. JUsTIcE FRANKFURTER, there are a few
words I desire to add on one phase of the case.
I agree with the Court that if, as we held in the Sanders case (309 U. S. 470), a person financially injured by

COMMUNICATIONS COMM'N v. N. B. C. 265
239

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

the grant of a license has a standing to appeal, so does one
whose station will suffer from electrical interference if the
license is issued. I expressed my doubts, however, in
Scripps-Howard Radio v. Federal Communications
Commission, 316 U. S. 4, 20-21, whether Congress
endowed private litigants with the power to vindicate the public interest when it gave the right to appeal
under § 402 (b) to a person "aggrieved or whose interests
are adversely affected" by a decision of the Commission.
I also expressed my concern in that case with the constitutionality of a statutory scheme which allowed one
who showed no invasion of a private right to call on the
courts to review an order of the Commission. See Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S. 346. But if we accept as
constitutionally valid a system of judicial review invoked
by a private person who has no individual substantive
right to protect but who has standing only as a representative of the public interest,' then I think we must be exceedingly scrupulous to see to it that his interest in the
matter is substantial and immediate. Otherwise we will
not only permit the administrative process to be clogged
by judicial review; we Will most assuredly run afoul of
the constitutional requirement of case or controversy.
Federal Radio Commission v. General Electric Co., 281
U. S. 464.
Any actual controversy which may now be present in
this case is between KOA and the Commission. Any controversy which existed between WHDH and the Commission has come to an end. United States v. Alaska S. S.
Co., 253 U. S. 113, 116. The interest, if any, of the appellant KOA is the interest of a private person and accordingly must be measured in terms of private injury.
to as a sort of King's proctor by Edgerton, J., in Colorado
Radio Corp. v. Federal Communications Commission, 73 App. D. C.
225, 118 F. 2d 24, 28; and as "private Attorney Generals" by Frank,
J., in Associated Industriesv. Ickes, 134 F. 2d 694.
1 Referred

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

319 U. S.

That interest must be substantial and immediate if the
standard of the statute and if the constitutional requirements of case or controversy, as interpreted by the Sanders and the Scripps-Howard cases, are to be satisfied.
It is necessary to show in effect that KOA has sustained
or is about to sustain some direct and substantial injury (see Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 488)an injury which for the purpose of this case must result
from electrical interference. The Sanders case and the
Scripps-Howard case do not dispense with that requirement. They merely hold that an appellant has his case
decided in light of the standards of the public interest,
not by the criteria which give him a standing to appeal.
I do not understand that the opinion of the Court takes
a contrary view. It only holds on this phase of the case
that KOA made an adequate showing under § 402 (b).
I disagree with that conclusion.

UNITED STATES

EX REL.

TENNESSEE VALLEY

AUTHORITY v. POWELSON, ASSIGNEE AND
SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST OF SOUTHERN

STATES POWER COMPANY

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 3.

Argued March 12, 13, 1942.

Reargued March 1, 2, 1943.-

Decided May 17, 1943.
1. Upon this appeal under § 25 of the Tennessee Valley Authority
Act, the Circuit Court of Appeals complied with the requirement
that it dispose of the matter "upon the record, without regard to

the awards or findings theretofore made," and. fix the value.

P. 272.

2. In a proceeding to condemn lands under § 25 of the Tennessee
Valley Authority Act, the burden of establishing their value rests
upon the respondent landowner. P. 273.
3. In a proceedirg under § 25 of the Tennessee Valley Authority Act,
the owner sought to establish a special value for the lands con-

