OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

319 U. S.

ride the rights of others to what has before been regarded
as religious liberty. In so doing it needlessly creates a
risk of discrediting a wise provision of our Constitution
which protects all-those in homes as well as those out of
them-in the peaceful, orderly practice of the religion of
their choice but which gives no right to force it upon
others.
Civil liberties had their origin and must find their ulti-.
mate guaranty in the faith of the people. If that faith
should be lost, five or nine men in Washington could not
long supply its want. Therefore we must do our utmost
to make clear and easily understandable the reasons for
deciding these cases as we do. Forthright observance of
rights presupposes their forthright definition.
I think that the majority- has failed in this duty. I
therefore dissent in Murdock and Struthers and concur
in the result in Douglas.
I join in the opinions of MR. JUSTICE REED in Murdock
and Struthers, and in that of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER
in Murdock.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER joins in these views.
LOCKERTY

ET AL.

v. PHILLIPS, UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 934.

Argued May 3, 1943.-Decided May 10, 1943.

1. The Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 sets up a procedure
whereby any person subject to any regulation or order promulgated under the Act may on "protest" of the regulation or order
secure its review by the Administrator; and, if the protest is denied,
the Act confers on the Emergency Court (and on the Supreme Court
upon review of decisions of the Emergency Court) equity jurisdic-

-

LOCKERTY v. PHILLIPS.
182

Counsel for Parties.

tion to restrain the enforcement of regulations or price orders
under that Act, and withdraws that jurisdiction from every other
court, state or federal. P. 186.
2. The Constitution does not require Congress to confer equity jurisdiction on any particular inferior federal court. P. 187.
3. Congress had power to restrict the equity jurisdiction to restrain
enforcement of the Emergency Price Control Act, or of regulations under it, to the Emergency Court, and, upon review of its
decisions, to this Court, and to require that a plaintiff seeking such
equitable relief resort to the Emergency Court only after pursuing
the prescribed administrative procedure. P. 188.
4. The Emergency Price Control Act, § 204 (d), in providing that
"no court, Federal, State, or Territorial, shall have jurisdiction or
power to . . . restrain, enjoin, or set aside . . . any provision, of

this Act," is not open to the objection that it withholds from all
courts authority to pass upon the constitutionality of any provision
of the Act or of any order or regulation under it. The Act itself,
§ 204, saves to the Emergency Court, and, upon review of its decisions, to this Court, authority to determine whether any regulation,
order, or price schedule promulgated under it is "not in accordance
with law," and this permits that the constitutional validity of the
Act, and of orders and regulations under it, be so determined. P. 188.
5. Assuming that review in the Emergency Court is inadequate to
protect constitutional rights because § 204 (c) prohibits all iiterlocutory relief by that court, the separability clause of § 303
would require that effect be given to the other provisions of § 204,
including that which withholds from the district courts authority to enjoin enforcement of the Act. P. 189.
49 F. Supp. 513, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges which dismissed for want of jurisdiction an appeal
seeking an injunction against enforcement of price regulations .prescribed under the Emergency Price Control
Act.
Mr. Arthur T. Vanderbilt, with whom Mr. Harold
Simandl was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Thomas I. Emerson, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, and Mr.
Paul A. Freund were on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question for our decision is whether the jurisdiction of the district court below to enjoin the enforcement
of price regulations prescribed by the Administrator under the Emergency Price Control Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 23,
was-validly withdrawn by § 204 (d) of the Act. Appellants brought this suit in the district court for the District
of New Jersey for an injunction restraining appellee, the
United States Attorney for that district, from the prosecution of pending and prospective criminal proceedings
against appellants for violation of §§ 4 (a) and 205 (b) of
the Act, and of Maximum Price Regulation No. 169. In
view of the provisions of § 204 (d) of the Act, the district
court of three judges, 28 U. S. C. § 380a, dismissed the suit
for want of jurisdiction to entertain it.
The amended bill of complaint alleges that appellants
are established merchants owning valuable,wholesale meat
businesses, in the course of which they purchase meat from
packers and sell it at wholesale to retail dealers; that Maximum Price Regulation No. 169, promulgated by the Price
Administrator under the purported authority of § 2 (a) of
the Act, as originally issued and as revised, fixed maximum wholesale prices for specified cuts of beef; that in fixing such prices the Administrator had failed to give due
consideration to the various factors affecting the cost of
production and distribution of meat in the industry as a
whole; that the Administrator had failed to fix or regulate
the price of livestock; that the conditions in the industryincluding the quantity of meat available to packers for distribution to wholesalers, the packers' expectation of profit,
and the effect of these conditions upon the prices of meat
sold by packers to wholesalers-are such that appellants
are and will be unable to obtain a supply of meat from
packers which they can resell to retail dealers within the

LOCKERTY v. PHILLIPS.
182

Opinion of the Court.

prices fixed by Regulation No. 169; that enforcement of
the Regulation will preclude appellants' continuance in
business as meat wholesalers; that the Act as thus applied
to appellants is a denial of due process in violation of the
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, and involves an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power to the Administrator; that appellee threatens to prosecute appellants for each sale of meat at a price greater than that
fixed by the Regulation, and to subject them to the fine
and imprisonment prescribed by §§ 4 and 205 (b) of the
Act for violations of the Act or of price regulations prescribed by the Administrator under the Act; and that such
enforcement by repeated prosecutions of appellants will
irreparably injure them in their business and property.
Section 203 (a) sets up a procedure whereby any person
subject to any provision of any regulation, order or price
schedule promulgated under the Act may within, sixty
days "file a protest specifically setting forth objections to
any such provision and affidavits or other written evidence in support of such objections." He may also protest later on grounds arising after the expiration of the
original sixty days. The subsection directs that within
a specified time "the Administrator shall either grant or
deny such protest in whole or in part, notice such protest
for hearing, or provide an opportunity to present further
evidence in connection therewith. In the event that the
Administrator denies any such protest in whole or in part,
he shall inform the protestant of the grounds upon which
such decision is based, and of any economic data and
other facts of which the Administrator has taken official
notice."
By § 204 (a), "Any person who is aggrieved by the denial or partial denial of his protest may, within thirty days
after such denial, file a complaint with the Emergency
Court of Appeals, created pursuant to subsection (c), spec-

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

ifying his objections and praying that the regulation,
order, or price schedule protested be enjoined or set aside
in whole or in part." Subsection (b) provides that no regulation, order, or price schedule, shall be enjoined "unless
the complainant establishes to the satisfaction of the court
that the regulation, order, or price schedule is not in accordance with law, or is arbitrary or capricious." Under
subsections (b) and (d), decisions of the Emergency Court
may, by writ of certiorari; be brought for review to the
Supreme Court, which is required to advance the cause on
its docket and to expedite the disposition of it.
Although by following the procedure prescribed by these
provisions of the Act appellants could have raised and obtained review of the questions presented by their bill of
complaint, they did not protest the price regulation which
they challenge and they took no proceedings for review of
it by the Emergency Court. Appellants are thus seeking
the aid of the district court to restrain the enforcement of
an administrative order without pursuing the administrative remedy provided by the statute (cf. Illinois Commerce Commission v. Thomson, 318 U. S. 675, 686) and
without recourse to the judicial review by the Emergency
Court of Appeals and by this Court which the statute
affords.
Moreover the statute vests jurisdiction to grant equitable relief exclusively in the Emergency Court and in this
Court. Section 204 (d) declares: "The Emergency Court
of Appeals, and the Supreme Court upon review of judgments and orders of the Emergency Court of Appeals, shall
have exclusive jurisdiction to determine the validity of any
regulation or order issued under section 2, of any price
schedule effective in accordance with the provisions of section 206, and of any provision of any such regulation, order,
or price schedule. Except as provided in this section, no
court, Federal, State, or Territorial, shall have jurisdiction or power to consider the validity of any such regula-

LOCKERTY v. PHILLIPS.
182

Opinion of the Court.

tion, order, or price schedule, or to stay, restrain, enjoin,
or set aside, in whole or in part, any provision-of this Act
authorizing the issuance of such regulations or orders, or
making effective any such price schedule, or any provision
of any such regulation, order, or price schedule, or to restrain or enjoin the enforcement of any such provision."
By this statute Congress has seen fit to confer on the
Emergency Court (and on the Supreme Court upon review
of decisions of the Emergency Court) equity jurisdiction
to restrain the enforcement of price orders under the Emergency Price Control Act. At the same time it has withdrawn that jurisdiction from every other federal and state
court. There is nothing in the Constitution which requires Congress to confer equity jurisdiction on any particular inferior federal court. All federal courts, other
than the Supreme.Court, derive their jurisdiction wholly
from the exercise of the authority to "ordain and establish"
inferior courts, conferred on Congress by Article III, § 1,
of the Constitution. Article III left Congress free to establish inferior federal courts or not as it thought appropriate. It could have declined to create any such courts,
leaving suitors to the remedies afforded by state courts,
with such appellate review by this Court as Congress
might prescribe. Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260
U. S. 226,234, and cases cited; McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch
504, 506. The Congressional power to ordain and establish inferior courts includes the power "of investing them
with jurisdiction either limited, concurrent, or exclusive,
and of withholding jurisdiction from them in theexact degrees and character which to Congress may seem proper
for the public good." Cary v. Curtis, 3 How. 236, 245;
Lauf v. E. G. Shinner & Co., 303 U. S.323, 330; Hallowell
v. Commons, 239 U. S.506, 509; Smallwood v. Gallardo,
275 U. S.56; Toucey v. New York Life Ins. Co., 314 U. S.
118, 129. See also United States v. Hudson and Goodwin, 7 Cranch 32, 33; Mayor v. Cooper, 6 Wall. 247, 252;
531559-44----16

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Stevenson v. Fain, 195 U. S. 165, 167; Kentucky v' Powers, 201 U. S. 1, 24; Chicot County Dist. v. Baxter Bank,
308 U. S. 371, 376. In the light of the explicit language of
the Constitution and our decisions, it is plain that Congress
has power to provide that the equity jurisdiction to restrain enforcement of the Act, or of regulations promulgated under it, be restricted to the Emergency Court, and,
upon. review of its decisions, to this Court. Nor can we
doubt the authority of Congress to require that a plaintiff
seeking such equitable relief resort to the Emergency
Court only after pursuing the prescribed administrative
procedure.
Appellants argue that the command of § 204 (d) that
"no court, Federal, State, or Territorial, shall have jurisdiction or power to . . . restrain, enjoin, or set aside
• . . any provision- of this Act" extends beyond the mere
denial of equitable relief by way of injunction, and withholds from all courts authority to pass upon the constitutionality of any provision of the Act or of any order
or regulation under it. They insist that the phrase "set
aside" is to be read broadly, as meaning that no court can
declare unconstitutional any such provision, and that
consequently the effect of the statute is to deny to those
aggrieved, by statute or regulation, their day in court to
challenge its constitutionality. But the statute expressly
excepts from this command those remedies afforded by
§ 204, including that of subsection (b), which gives to
complainants a right to an injunction whenever they establish to the satisfaction of the Emergency Court that the
regulation, order, or price schedule is "not in accordance
with law, or is arbitrary or capricious." A construction
of the statute which would deny all opportunity for judicial determination of an asserted constitutional right is
not to be favored. The present Act has at least saved to
the Emergency Court, and, upon review of its decisions,

LOCKERTY v. PHILLIPS.
182

Opinion of the Court.

to this Court, authority to determine whether any regulation, order, or price schedule promulgated under the Act is
"not in accordance with law, or is arbitrary or capricious."
We think it plain that orders and regulations involving
an unconstitutional application of the statute are "not in
accordance with law" within the meaning of this clause,
and that the constitutional validity of the Act, and of
orders and regulations under it, may be determined upon
the prescribed review in the Emergency Court.
Appellants also contend that the review in the Emergency Court is inadequate to protect their constitutional
rights, and that § 204 is therefore unconstitutional, because § 204 (c) prohibits all interlocutory relief by that
court. We need not pass upon the constitutionality of
this restriction. For in any event, the separability clause
of § 303 of the Act would require us to give effect to the
other provisions of § 204, including that withholding from
the district courts authority to enjoin enforcement of the
Act-a provision which as we have seen is subject to no
unconstitutional infirmity.
Since appellants seek only an injunction which the district court is without authority to give, their bill of complaint was rightly dismissed. We have no occasion to
determine now whether, or to what extent, appellants may
challenge the constitutionality of the Act or the Regulation in courts other than the Emergency Court, either by
way of defense to a criminal prosecution or in a civil suit
brought for some other purpose than to restrain enforcement of the Act or regulations issued under it.
Affirmed.

