OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.S.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, substantially agreeing with these

views, is of opinion that the petitions should be dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR.JUSTICE JACKSON took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
KOREMATSU v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 912. Argued May 11, 1943.-Decided June 1, 1943.
An order of the District Court placing a convicted defendant on probation without imposing sentence of imprisonment or fine is a final
decision reviewable by the Circuit Court of Appeals under Jud.
Code § 239. Pp. 433, 436.
RESPONSE to a question certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in a criminal case.

Mr. A. L. Wirin argued the cause, and Mr. Jackson H.
Ralston was on the brief, for Korematsu.
Mr. JohnL. Burling, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Messrs. Edward J. Ennis and W. Marvin Smith were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR.JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Korematsu was found guilty by the District Court for
the Northern District of California of remaining in the
City of San Leandro, California, in violation of 18 U. S.
C. § 97 (A) and the orders issued thereunder.1 The District Court's order was that he "be placed on probation
for the period of five (5) years, the terms and conditions
IThe relevant orders are Executive Order 9066, Feb. 19, 1942, 7 Fed.
Reg. 1407, and General DeWitt's Public Proclamation No. 1, March
2, 1942, and Civilian Exclusion Order No. 34, May 3, 1942, issued under
authority of the Executive Order.

KOREMATSU v. UNITED STATES.
432

Opinion of the Court.

of the probation to be stated to said defendant by the
Probation Officer of this Court. Further ordered that
the bond heretofore given for the appearance of the
defendant be exonerated. Ordered pronouncing of
judgment be suspended."
The defendant appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which under 28 U. S. C. § 225
has "jurisdiction to review by appeal final decisions."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, doubting whether it had
jurisdiction to hear an appeal from an order placing the
defendant on probation without first formally sentencing him, has certified to us the following question under
§239 of the Judicial Code:
"After a finding of guilt in such a criminal proceeding as the instant case, in which neither imprisonment
in a jail or penitentiary nor a fine is imposed, is an order
by the district court, that the convicted man 'be placed
on probation for the period of five (5) years' a final decision reviewable on appeal by this circuit court of appeals?"
The federal probation law authorizes a district judge
"after conviction or after a plea of guilty or nolo contendere . . . to suspend the imposition or execution of

sentence and to place the defendant upon probation for
such period and upon such terms" as seem wise. 18 U. S.
C. § 724. In Berman v. United States, 302 U. S. 211, we

held that when a court had imposed a sentence and then
suspended its execution, the judgment was final and
would support an appeal. The question here is whether
the judgment is equally final when the imposition of
sentence itself is suspended and the defendant subjected
to probation.' The government concedes that this question should be answered in the affirmative.
2 For the background of the probation legislation, see Ex parte United

States, 242 U. S. 27; United States v. Murray, 275 U. S. 347. Cases on
the instant problem are collected at 126 A. L. RI. 1207.

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

It has often been said that there can be no "final judgment" in a criminal case prior to actual sentence, Miller
v. Aderhold, 288 U. S. 206, 210; Hill v. Wampler, 298
U. S. 460, 464, and this proposition was restated in Berman v. United States, 302 U. S. 211, 212.1 In applying
this general principle to a situation like that of the instant case, the Second and Fourth Circuit Courts of
Appeals have concluded that they lacked jurisdiction to
hear an appeal from an order placing a defendant on
probation without first imposing sentence. United
States v. Lecato, 29 F. 2d 694, 695; Birnbaum v. United
States, 107 F. 2d 885. The Fifth Circuit appears to take
the opposite view. Nix v. United States, 131 F. 2d 857.
The "sentence is judgment" phrase has been used by
this Court in dealing with cases in which the action of
the trial court did not in fact subject the defendant to
any form of judicial control. Thus in Miller v. Aderhold,
supra, imposition of sentence was suspended and the defendant was put under no obligation at all. Hence the
Court held that there was no jurisdiction to hear the
appeal. But certainly when discipline has been imposed,
the defendant is entitled to review.
In the Berman case, supra, we held that the appeal
was proper where the sentence was imposed and suspended, and the defendant was placed on probation. The
probationary surveillance is the same whether or not
sentence is imposed. In either case, the probation
order follows a finding of guilt or a plea of nolo contendere. Thereafter, the defendant must abide by the
orders of the court. He must obey the terms and conditions imposed upon him, or subject himself to a possible revocation or modification of his probation; and
under some circumstances he may, during the probationary period, be required to pay a fine, or make repara8 "Final judgment in a criminal case means sentence.

is the judgment."

The sentence

KOREMATSU v. UNITED STATES.
432

435

Opinion of the Court.

tion to aggrieved parties, or provide for the support of
persons for whom he is legally responsible. 18 U. S. C.
§ 724. He is under the "supervision" of the probation officer whose duty it is to make reports to the court
concerning his activities, 18 U. S. C. § 727, and at "any
time within the probation period the probation officer
may arrest the probationer wherever found, without a
warrant, or the court which has granted the probation
may issue a warrant for his arrest." 18 U. S. C. § 725.
These and other incidents of probation emphasize that
a probation order is "an authorized mode of mild and
ambulatory punishment, the probation being intended
as a reforming discipline." Cooper v. United States, 91
F. 2d 195, 199.
The difference to the probationer between imposition
of sentence followed by probation, as in the Berman case,
and suspension of the imposition of sentence, as in the
instant case, is one of trifling degree. Probation, like
parole, "is intended to be a means of restoring offenders
who are good social risks to society; to afford the unfortunate another opportunity by clemency," Zerb8t v.
Kidwell, 304 U. S. 359, 363, and this end is served in
the same fashion whether or not probation is preceded
by imposition of sentence. In either case, the liberty of
an individual judicially determined to have committed
an offense is abridged in the public interest. "In criminal cases, as well as civil, the judgment.is final for the
purpose of appeal 'when it terminates the litigation
. . . on the merits' and 'leaves nothing to be done but
to enforce by execution what has been determined.'"
Berman v. United States, supra, 212, 213. Here litigation "on the merits" of the charge against the defendant
has not only ended in a determination of guilt, but it
has been followed by the institution of the disciplinary
measures which the court has determined to be necessary
for the protection of the public.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

These considerations lead us to conclude that the order
is final and appealable. Our answer to the question is
Yes.
MOLINE PROPERTIES, INC. v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 660. Argued April 16, 19, 1943.-Decided June 1, 1943.
1. Upon the facts of this case, held that, for the purpose of the federal
income tax, gains from sales (in 1935 and 1936) by a corporation
of its property, although the corporation was owned wholly by an
individual stockholder, could not be treated as income taxable to
the individual rather than to the corporation. P. 440.
2. The corporation in this case was not a mere agent of the stockholder. P. 440.
131 F. 2d 388, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 751, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 45 B. T. A. 647, that
there were no deficiencies in the corporate taxpayer's income and excess-profits taxes.

Mr. Nelson Trottman,with whom Messrs. Bart A. Riley
and Thomas H. Anderson were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
and Mr. Sewall Key were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

Rzm delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner seeks to have the gain on sales of its real
property treated as the gain of its sole stockholder and
its corporate existence ignored as merely fictitious. Certiorari was granted because of the volume of similar
litigation in the lower courts and because of alleged con-

