ALTVATER v. FREEMAN.
350

Counsel for Parties.

ary power to afford a second appellate review of the state
court judgment by writ of certiorari. But as we have
adhered to our long standing practice of granting certiorari upon the affirmative vote of four Justices, the
case is properly here for decision and is, I think, correctly
decided.

ALTVATER

ET AL.

v. FREEMAN

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 696. Argued April 19, 1943.-Decided May 24, 1943.
1. The issue of validity may be raised by a counterclaim in a suit
.for infringement of a patent. P. 363.
2. The requirements as to the existence of a case or controversy in
suits in the federal coarts are no less strict in suits under the
Declaratory Judgments Act than in others. P. 363.
3. The requirements as to the existence of a case or controversy are
met where payment of a claim is demanded as of right and payment is made, but where a right to recover the amount paid or to
challenge the legality of the claim is preserved by the coercive nature
of the exaction. P. 365.
4. Although the decision of non-infringement of the patent disposed
of the bill and answer in this suit, it did not dispose of the counterclaim, which raised the question of the validity of the patent; and
the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in treating the issues raised by
the counterclaim as moot. Pp. 363, 365.
130 F. 2d 763, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 750, to review a decree which
modified and affirmed a decree dismissing the bill and
granting the prayer of a counterclaim in a patent case.

Messrs. Edmund C. Rogers and Lawrence C. Kingsland for petitioners.
Mr. Marston Allen for respondents.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit, lodged in the federal District Court by reason
of diversity of citizenship, was brought by respondents for
specific performance of a license agreement under reissue
patent No. 20,202 issued to Freeman in 1936 for a cutout machine for shoe uppers, it being alleged that the
reissue patent was substituted under the agreement for
the original patent--No. 1,681,033.1 The bill alleged that
contrary to the provisions of the license agreement petitioners were manufacturing and selling certain devices
which infringed the reissue patent and that they had not
confined themselves to the territory in which the license
agreement permitted them to make sales of the patented
article. The bill asked for specific performance, for an
injunction, and for an accounting. Petitioners answered
denying generally the allegations of the bill and setting up
various defenses. They charged among other things that
the two reissue patents obtained on the surrender of the
original patent were invalid; and they asserted that while
they had made payments of royalties under the reissue
patents, they did so in protest and that those payments did
not substitute the reissue patents for the original patent
under the license agreement. Petitioners also filed a
counterclaim praying for a declaratory judgment. They
alleged in the counterclaim that the license agreement did
not cover the reissue patents; that they were willing to pay
royalties if the agreement covered the reissues and if they
1Two reissue patents-No. 20,202 and No. 20,203-were obtained
for Patent No. 1,681,033 which was surrendered. The contract was
based upon the latter patent. It licensed petitioners to make certain
dies coming within the original patent, within a limited territory and
for use with certain machines, upon payment of royalties. Petitioners
likewise agreed not to make any machines coming within the original
patent; and they waived the right to contest the validityof the patent
during its life,

ALTVATER v. FREEMAN.
359

Opinion of the Court.

were valid; that the reissues were not valid, but that if
petitioners cancelled the license agreement and refused to
pay any royalties under it, they would be subject to infringement suits. They accordingly alleged that in order
to protect the business built up in good faith under the
license, an adjudication of the controversy and dispute
between the parties was necessary. They prayed that
the reissue patents be declared invalid, but that, if they
were held to be valid, the license agreement be extended
to them. In a reply to the counterclaim, respondents denied its essential allegations and alleged among other
things that there was no justiciable controversy between the parties as set forth in the counterclaim and
therefore that petitioners had no right to the declaratory
judgment.
A brief summary of earlier litigation between the parties
will help sharpen the outlines of the present controversy.
The license under the original patent was executed in 1929.
Shortly thereafter petitioners marketed a machine known
as Model T, which respondents claimed violated the agreement. They accordingly brought a suit for specific performance of the agreement, charging violation of its
covenants and infringement. The court held in Freeman
v. Altvater, 66 F. 2d 506, that the validity of the patent
was not in issue, since petitioners, being licensees, were
estopped to assert its invalidity. The court concluded,
however, that the machine did infringe. An accounting
was ordered. Respondents endeavored later on to have
the accounting cover the accused devices involved in the
present suit. That effort was not successful. Meanwhile
Premier Machine Co. v. Freeman, 84 F. 2d 425, was decided. It was a suit for infringement of the original
patent, the defense being invalidity. Of the 94 claims
of the patent, 26 were involved in that suit. The court
held that only three of that group were valid. That was
in June 1936. In November 1936 Freeman filed a dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

claimer covering all claims held invalid in the Premier
Machine case. Later in 1936 he surrendered his original
patent and obtained reissue patents. The invalidity of
the reissue patents was asserted in the present suit on the
grounds, among others, that the disclaimer was improper
and that the reissue patents were devoid of patentable
subject matter.
The District Court after a hearing found that the
accused devices did not infringe respondents' reissue patents; that the decision in the PremierMachine case, 84 F.
2d 425, holding only three of the twenty-six claims of the
original patent valid, constituted an eviction under the
license agreement; that the license agreement terminated
with the surrender of the original patent in 1936; that
petitioners did not make the reissue patents the basis for
a new license contract; that while petitioners since the
date of the reissue patents paid certain royalties they did
so under protest and pursuant to the injunction which
was entered in the first Altvater case, 66 F. 2d 506; and
that the reissue patents were invalid. The District Court
accordingly dismissed the bill of complaint and granted
the prayer of the counterclaim. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed (129 F. 2d 494), holding that the District
Court was warranted in concluding that the original license
agreement was at an end and that the continuance of royalty payments did not indicate an acceptance of the reissue
patents to form a new contract; that the issue of infringement involved only claim 6 of reissue patent No. 20,202,
the charges that other claims were infringed having been
abandoned; and that the accused devices did not infringe.
On a petition for rehearing and motion to modify the
opinion and revise the decree, the Circuit Court of Appeals
ruled that when the District Court found no contract of
license and no infringement, the other issues became moot
and there was no longer a justiciable controversy between
the parties. 130 F. 2d 763. It accordingly modified the

ALTVATER v. FREEMAN.
359

Opinion of the Court.

decree by striking from it the provisions which held that
Freeman was evicted from his monopoly by the decision
in the PremierMachine case and that the reissue patents
were invalid, and the further provision which resolved the
issues on the counterclaim in favor of petitioners, saying
that it expressed no opinion on those questions. The case
is here on a petition for writ of certiorari which we granted
because of the apparent misinterpretation by the Circuit
Court of Appeals of our decision in Electrical Fittings
Corp.v. Thomas & Betts Co., 307 U. S. 241.
That case was tried only on bill and answer. The District Court adjudged a claim of a patent valid although it
dismissed the bill for failure to prove infringement. We
held that the finding of validity was immaterial to the disposition of the cause and that the winning party might appeal to obtain a reformation of the decree. To hold a
patent valid if it is not infringed is to decide a hypothetical case.2 But the situation in the present case is quite
different. We have here not only bill and answer but a
counterclaim. Though the decision of non-infringement
disposes of the bill and answer, it does not dispose of the
counterclaim which raises the question of validity. Sola
Electric Co. v. Jefferson Electric Co., 317 U. S. 173, is authority for the proposition that the issue of validity may
be raised by a counterclaim in an infringement suit.8 The
requirements of case or controversy are of course no less
strict under the Declaratory Judgments Act (48 Stat. 955,
28 U. S. C. § 400) than in case of other suits. United
States v. West Virginia, 295 U. S. 463, 475; Ashwander v.
Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S. 288, 325; Aetna
Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth, 300 U. S. 227; Maryland Casualty Co. v. Pacific Coal Co., 312 U. S. 270. But we are
of the view that the issues raised by the present counterSee Cover v. Schwartz, 133 F. 2d 541.
8And see Leach v. Ross Heater & MIg. Co., 104 F. 2d 88; Borchard,

2

Declaratory Judgments (2d ed.) pp. 812--814.
531 559-44-27

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

claim were justiciable and that the controversy between
the parties did not come to an end (United States v.
Alaska S. S. Co., 253 U. S. 113, 116) on the dismissal of the
bill for non-infringement, since their dispute went beyond
the single claim and the particular accused devices involved in that suit.
It is said that so long as petitioners are paying royalties
they are in no position to raise the issue of invaliditythe theory being that as licensees they are estopped to
deny the validity of the patents and that, so long as they
continue to pay royalties, there is only an academic, not
a real controversy, between the parties. We can put to
one side the questions reserved in the Sola Electric Co.
case-whether, as held in United States v. Harvey Steel
Co., 196 U. S. 310, a licensee is estopped to challenge the
validity' of a patent and, if so, whether that rule of estoppel is one of local law or of federal law. In the present
case both the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals have found that the license agreement was terminated on the surrender of the original patent and was not
renewed and extended to cover the reissue patents. The
fact that royalties were being paid did not make this a
"difference or dispute of a hypothetical or abstract character.' Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth, supra, p. 240.
A controversy was raging; even apart from the continued
existence of the. license agreement. That controversy
was "definite and concrete, touching the legal relations of
parties having adverse legal interests." Aetna Life Ins.
Co. v. Haworth, supra, pp. 240-241. That controversy
concerned the validity of the reissue patents.' Those
patents had many claims in addition to the single one involved in the issue of infringement. And petitioners were
4Shortly after the grant of the reissue patents, petitioners filed a
suit for declaration of their invalidity. The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained a dismissal of the bill on the ground that all of the
matters placed at issue in that suit could be settled in the present
one. Western Supplies Co. v. Freeman, 109 F. 2d 693.

ALTVATER v. FREEMAN.
359

Opinion of the Court.

manufacturing and selling additional articles claimed to
fall under the patents. Royalties were being demanded
and royalties were being paid. But they were being paid
under protest and under the compulsion of an injunction
decree. It was to lift the heavy hand of that tribute from
the business that the counterclaim was filed. Unless the
injunction decree were modified,' the only other course
was to defy it, and to risk not only actual but treble damages in infringement suits. Rev. Stat. § 4919, 35 U. S. C.
§ 67. It was the function of the Declaratory Judgments
Act to afford relief against such peril and insecurity.
S. Rep. No. 1005, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 2-3. And see
Borchard, Declaratory Judgments (2d ed.) pp. 927 et seq.
And certainly the requirements of case or controversy are
met where payment of a claim is demanded as of right and
where 'payment is made, but where the involuntary or
coercive nature of the exaction preserves the right to recover the sums paid or to challenge the legality of the
claim. See Maxwell v. Griswold, 10 How. 242, 255-256;
United States v. Lawson, 101 U. S. 164, 169; Swift &
Co. v. United States, 111 U. S. 22, 28-30; Atchison, T. &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280, 286; Gaar,Scott
& Co. v. Shannon, 223 U. S. 468, 471; Union Pacific R.
Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 248 U. S. 67, 70; Woodward, The Law of Quasi Contracts (1913) § 218.
Our conclusionis that it was error for the Circuit Court
of Appeals to have treated the issues raised by the counter6

On April 15, 1943, while this case was pending here, the Circuit

Court of Appeals granted petitioners leave to apply to the District
Court to vacate the decree in the first Altvater suit, 66 F. 2d 506.
The basis of that motion appears to be substantially the same as the
counterclaim in the present suit. This underlines and gives added emphasis to the claim that there is a controversy between the parties

with respect to the validity of the patents growing out of events subsequent to the first Altvater case. It further serves to demonstrate

that the required payment of royalties under that decree does not
establish the absence of a controversy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of FRANKYRTR, J.

319 U. S.

claim as moot. They were not moot; and the District
Court had passed on them. Accordingly, the Circuit Court
of Appeals should have reviewed that adjudication.' The
judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to the Circuit Courit of Appeals for that purpose.
Reversed.
MR. JusTicE FRANKFURnE:

We ar'e cdncerned here with a problem in judicial administration, not a question in algebra as to which there is a
demonstiably right or wrong answer. The case before
us presents only one phase of an extensive, complicated
patent litigation involving numerous technical and interdependent issues. The question which we must now
decide is this-in View of the present posture of the controversy, shall one of these issues be adjudicated in the manner indicated by the Circuit Court of Appeals, or shall this
Court direct that it be adjudicated upon the defendants'
counterclaim for a declaratory judgment? We are all
agreed that while a district court may have jurisdiction of
a suit or claim under the Federal Declaratory Judgments
Act, 28 U. S. C. § 400, it is under no compulsion to exercise
such jurisdiction. If another proceeding is pending in
which the claim in controversy may be satisfactorily adjudicated, a declaratory judgment is not a mandatory rem6The proposal that the cause should be remanded to the District
Court so that it might pass on those issues once more before the Circuit
Court of Appeals reviews them does not emanate from the Circuit Court
of Appeals. Its refusal to review that adjudication rests on a misinterpretation of Electrical Fittings Corp. v. Thomas & Betts Co.,
aupra,not on any inadequacy or insufficiency of the findings of the District Court. If the standards of good judicial administration be considered, we fail to see why petitioners should be put to two trials of
the same issues before a review by the Circuit Court of Appeals may be
had. Nor would it comport with sound judicial administration to
uphold a denial of appellate review where the controversy between the
parties still rages and where the a)peal was dismissed because of a
mistaken view of the law.

ALTVATER v. FREEMAN.
359

Opinion of FaNRi'uwrv

, J.

edy. Sound judicial administration requires, in my view,
that we decline to interfere with the procedure which the
court below has provided for the adjudication of the claims
for which the defendants sought a declaratory judgment.
This litigation is wrapt in confusion, but from it I extract
the following history of its course through the courts. In
the early 1930's a suit for infringement of a shoe machine
patent was brought by the patentee, Freeman, against
Altvater, a licensee. This resulted in a ruling in 1933 by
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in
Freemanv. Altvater, 66 F. 2d 506, that the patent had been
infringed and that the licensee was estopped to assert its
invalidity. Pursuant to this decision a decree was entered
requiring Altvater to pay royalties under the license agreement. Freeman thereafter brought suit against another
alleged infringer. In this proceeding the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the First Circuit held, in Premier Machine
Co. v. Freeman,84 F. 2d 425, that 23 of the 94 claims of
Freeman's patent were invalid. Accordingly, Freeman
subsequently filed a disclaimer covering the 23 claims thus
held invalid, surrendered his patent, and obtained reissue
patents on the remaining claims as well as some other
claims not involved in the Premier suit.
Shortly thereafter Freeman brought a second suit
against Altvater and another company. In this suitwhich resulted in the action of.the Circuit Court of Appeals
now under review-Freeman alleged that the defendants
were violating the terms of the license agreement and
prayed for specific performance of the agreement. The
defendants denied this allegation, and, by way of counterclaim, asked for a declaration that (1) the license contract
and the original patent "be interpreted in the light of the
decision" in the Premier case.; (2) the license contract "be
interpreted by this Court to readjust the relationship between its parties in the light of the facts transpiring since
it was entered into"; (3) the license agreement be declared

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of

FRANK FVMER, J.

319

U. S.

terminated as of the date of the surrender of the original
patent; (4) the reissue patents be declared invalid, "but,
if either is valid, then to interpret it or them into its or
their proper "cope in the light of the facts occurred";
(5) in the event that the reissue patents be found valid,
the plaintiffs be directed "to grant to the defendants a
license under them of a scope to permit their business to be
continued to the extent it cbuld operate under the original
contract, and at a royalty commensurate with the protection afforded by the patents"; and (6) the injunction
against violation of the license agreement be declared
terminated because of the expiration of such agreement.
The district court found that the license agreement
ended with the surrender of the original patent in 1936,
that the reissue patents had not been made the basis of a
new contract between the parties, and that, in any event,
the reissue patents included claims "not definitely distinguishable from claims disclaimed" and hence were "inherently invalid for improper disclaimer." Accordingly,
the bill was dismissed. The decree recited also that "The
issues on the counterclaim are found in favor of defendants
and the counterclaim is granted."
Upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals this ruling
of the district court was affirmed, 129 F. 2d 494, but upon
rehearing the court held that once it was found that the
license agreement had terminated and that the reissue
patents were not infringed, the remaining issues in the
case, i. e., those relating to the validity of the reissue
patents, were "moot" in the sense that there was no longer
a justiciable controversy for the solution of which a declaration was needed. 130 F. 2d 763. While the appeal was
pending before the Circuit Court of Appeals, however, the
defendants petitioned the district court to vacate the decree entered under the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals in Freeman v. Altvater, 66 F. 2d 506. This motion was based upon two grounds: (1) that the license

ALTVATER v. FREEMAN.
359

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

agreement ended when Freeman surrendered the original
patent after the decision in the Premier case, and (2) that
there had been no valid reissue of the patent claims. Accordingly, the defendants asked that the injunction be
lifted and that they be relieved of their continuing obligation to pay royalties under the license agreement. The
plaintiffs objected to the jurisdiction of the district court
to entertain such a motion while the appeal was pending
in the Circuit Court of Appeals. The district court sustained this objection, and the defendants appealed. On
April 15, 1943, after the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon rehearing and while the case was pending
here on certiorari, the Circuit Court of Appeals granted
the defendants, the petitioners in this Court, leave to proceed in the district court to vacate the 1933 decree. In
its opinion the court below expressly stated that "Whether
the reissue patents are wholly invalid, as defendants contend, or, if not, whether the claims as reissued are within
the protective scope of the existing injunction is a matter
which the district court will have to determine." 135 F. 2d
212, 213.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has thus committed to
the district court substantially the same questions as those
raised by the defendants' counterclaim, i. e., those relating to the validity of the reissue patents. By this action
the Circuit Court of Appeals had effectively recalled its
previous ruling that these questions were "moot." Whatever might be said, therefore, as to the correctness of its
ruling that the validity of the reissue patents presented
"non-justiciable" questions, the inescapable fact remains
that there is now before the district court for determination a proceeding initiated by the petitioners involving
the very questions raised ty the counterclaim. By putting the whole case in the charge of the district court, the
Circuit Court of Appeals has made it academic for us to
consider the correctness of its earlier ruling that there re-

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of FRAN mima, J.

319 U. S.

mained no justiciable issues in the controversy between
the parties. Review of the grant or denial of a declaratory judgment, like an appeal in equity, calls for disposition of the case on the basis of the circumstances found
to exist when the appeal is decided. The Circuit Court
of Appeals may have been in error in holding that the
questions relating to the validity of the reissue patents
could not be passed upon because there was no longer a
"justiciable" controversy once non-infringement was
found. But its subsequent action, directing the district
court to pass upon these questions, is a timely correction,
if such was called for, of its earlier ruling.
Therefore, it seems to me that good judicial administration should stay our interference with the Circuit Court
of Appeals' exercise of its discretion in adjusting the manner by which the issues as to the validity of the reissue
patents should be adjudicated. It is the Circuit Court
of Appeals which, by its action of April 15, 1943, ,has in
effect remanded the cause to the district court for determination of these issues. No valid reason appears for
disturbing the disposition it has made of the litigation.
The lower federal courts ought not to be narrowly confined in determining whether a declaratory judgment is
an appropriate remedy under all the circumstances. We
need not speculate too far as to the reasons which may
have prompted the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case
to remand the issues as to the validity of the patents to
the district court. It may have been of the opinion, for
example, that the findings of the district court lacked sufficient clarity, especially in view of the cloudiness of the
pleadings. In any event, however, this seems to me to be
the kind of a case in which this Court should be most reluctant to interfere with the procedure determined upon
by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
If we are to consider the correctness of the ruling that
the issues relating to the validity of the reissue patents are

ALTVATER v. FREEMAN.
359

Opinion of Fiu1

mimv,

J.

not "justiciable," I find it too difficult to accept the reasoning of my Brethren. The Court's conclusion that the

Circuit Court of Appeals erred in finding "mootness" as
to the questions raised by the counterclaim rests substantially upon the notion that a controversy still exists because the defendants are laboring under the "heavy" obligation of paying royalties under the license agreement.
But we have held that the controversy must be "definite
and concrete," "real and substantial," in order that a declaratory judgment may be given. Aetna Life Ins. Co. v.
Haworth, 300 U. S. 227, 240-41; and see Maryland Casualty Co. v. Pacific Co., 312 U. S. 270, 273. The defendants' obligation to pay royalties under the license
agreement cannot be very substantial at the present time,
since both the district court and the Circuit Court of
Appeals have held that the license agreement terminated
in 1936 with the surrender of the original patent. In view
of these rulings the defendants' need for "relief" is practically infinitesimal, since all that remains to be done is
the entry of a formal order vacating the 1933 decree. The
"insecurity" and "peril" from which litigants can be saved
only by a declaratory judgment are conspicuous by their
absence from this case at this time. It may very well be
that one who infringes a patent should be entitled to obtain
a declaration as to its validity even though he is under
no contractual obligation to pay royalties as a licensee.
The existence of an invalid patent may substantially impair the economic position of those who market articles
which infringe such a patent, even though no infringement
suits may be immediately threatened. Potential purchasers may naturally be reluctant to establish business
relations upon so insecure a basis. But the Court has not
chosen to sustain the propriety of a declaratory judgment
here upon this ground, and it is theg'efore idle to consider."
its merits.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

joins in this opinion.

