KELLEY v. EVERGLADES DISTRICT.
412

415

Syllabus.

application filed after the time limit has expired even
though it be allowed.
The purpose of statutes limiting the period for appeal
is to set a definite point of time when litigation shall be
at an end, unless within that time the prescribed application has been made; and if it has not, to advise prospective appellees that they are freed of the appellant's
demands. Any other construction of the statute would
defeat its purpose. Would-be appellants could prolong
indefinitely the appeal period, by making application to
one judge within the three months and upon its denial
by applying successively to other judges even after the
prescribed time for appeal had ended. Moreover, in such
cases extension of the period for appeal could be limited
only by recourse to the doctrine of laches applied in the
particular circumstances of each case.
We conclude that appellants' applications for allowance of the appeals, after the expiration of the three
months period, were too late, and that this Court is
without jurisdiction to entertain the appeals, Which are
accordingly
Dismissed.
KELLEY ET AL. v. EVERGLADES DRAINAGE
DISTRICT.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 935. Decided June 1, 1943.
1. The record in this case lacks the findings of fact which § 83 (e)
of the Bankruptcy Act and No. 37 of the General Orders in Bankruptcy require and which are necessary to enable this Court to
determine whether the plan under Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy
Act for composition of the debts of a Florida drainage district
discriminates unfairly in favor of a particular class of creditors.

P. 417.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Counsel for Parties.

319 U. S.

2. That only a very small minority of creditors have objected to the
plan does not relieve the courts of the duty of appraising its
fairness, and of making the findings necessary to support such an
appraisal. P. 418.
3. The nature and degree of exactness of the findings required in
proceedings under Ch. IX depends on the circumstances of the
particular case. P. 419.
4. Where future tax revenues of a drainage district are the only source
to which creditors can look for payment of their claims, considered
estimates of those revenues constitute the only available basis for appraising the respective interests of different classes of creditors.
P. 419.
5. In order that a court may determine the fairness of the total amount
of cash or securities offered to creditors by the plan, the court must
have before it data which will permit a reasonable, and hence an
informed, estimate of the probable future revenues available for the
satisfaction of creditors. P. 420.
6. Where different classes of creditors assert prior claims to different
sources of revenue, there must be a determination of the extent to
which each class is entitled to share in a particular source, and of
the fairness of the allotment to each class in the light of the probable
revenues to be anticipated from each source. P. 420.
To support such determinations, there must be findings, in such
detail and exactness as the nature of the case permits, of subsidiary
facts on which the ultimate conclusion of fairness can rationally
be predicated.
7. In a Ch. IX proceeding it is not the function of this Court to
analyze the evidence in order to supply findings which the trial court
failed to make; there must be findings, stated either in the trial
court's opinion or separately, which are sufficient to indicate the
factual basis for its ultimate conclusion. P. 421.
132 F. 2d 742, vacated.
PETITION

for writ of certiorari to review the affirmance

of a decree confirming a plan under Chapter IX of the

Bankruptcy Act for the composition of indebtedness of the
drainage district.

The writ was granted and the judgment

below was vacated.
Mr. Miller Walton was on the'brief for petitioners.
Messrs. M. Lewis Hall, Alfred E. Sapp and John D.
McCall were on the brief for respondenc.

KELLEY v. EVERGLADES DISTRICT.
415

417

Opinion of the Court.

PER CURIAM.

In this case we are asked to review a plan for composition of the debts of respondent, a drainage district organized under the laws of Florida. The courts below have
confirmed the plan under § 83 (e) of the Bankruptcy Act,
50 Stat. 653, 658, 11 U. S. C. § 403 (e), as amended, upon
the'finding of the District Court, prerequisite to the adoption of the plan, that it is "fair,.equitable, and for the
best interests of the creditors and does not discriminate
unfairly in favor of any creditor or class of creditors."
132 F. 2d 742.
Petitioners are holders of interest coupons, detached
from bonds issued by respondent, on which they have
recovered judgments. According to recitals in the plan
of composition, the debtor's bonds and the interest coupons, designated by the plan as Class I indebtedness,
"constitute a first charge against taxes levied...
against lands in the District, and have preference over
Class II Indebtedness"; the Class II indebtedness, consisting of various miscellaneous claims against the District, "is payable from an ad valorem tax of one
mill . ..,does not constitute a first charge against any
fixed revenues of the District, and is not secured by any
lien or pledge." Under the plan the bondholders are to
receive 56.918 cents in cash for each dollar of principal
amount; holders of detached interest coupons, including
coupons on which judgments have been recovered, are
to receive 36.77 cents, and holders of Class II indebtedness 26.14 cents. The plan is to be financed by a loan
from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, evidenced
and secured by the issuance to it of new 4% bonds of the
District.
Petitioners contend here, as they did in both courts
below, that the plan discriminates unfairly in favor of
the Class II creditors. But we are unable to reach that

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

question since we agree with petitioners that the record
lacks the findings of fact which the statute and the General Orders in Bankruptcy require, and which are necessary to the determination of that question.
Section 83 (e) of the Act requires that "At the conclusion of the hearing, the judge shall make written findings
of fact and his conclusions of law thereon." And Rule
52 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure, made applicable
to bankruptcy cases by General Order in Bankruptcy No.
37, requires the court to "find the facts specially." In
ConsolidatedRock Products Co. v. DuBois, 312 U. S. 510,
520-525, this Court held that in the absence of findings as
to the value of the assets subject to the payment of the
respective claims of each class of bondholders, the courts
were in no position to exercise the "informed, independent
judgment" necessary to the discharge of their statutory
duty to determine the fairness of a plan of corporate reorganization under the old § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act. In
Ecker v. Western Pacific R. Corp., 318 U. S. 448, and in
Group of InstitutionalInvestors v. Chicago, M., St. P. &
P. R. Co., 318 U. S. 523, we held the requirement of adequate findings applicable to railroad reorganizations under
§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act.
It applies with no less force to cases of municipal bankruptcy. And, as stated in the ConsolidatedRock Products
case, supra, the fact that only a very small minority of
creditors have objected to the plan does not relieve the
courts of the duty of appraising its fairness, and of making
the findings necessary to support such an appraisal. As
we said in the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. ?aul & Pacific
case, p. 571, minorities under the various reorganization
sections of the Bankruptcy Act "cannot be deprived of the
benefits of the statute by reason of a waiver, acquiescence
or approval by the other members of the class." The applicability of that rule to proceedings under Ch. IX is
plain. We stated in American Ins. Co. v. Avon Park, 311

KELLEY v. EVERGLADES DISTRICT.
415

419

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 138, 148, "the fact that the vast majority of security holders may have approved a plan is not the test
of whether that plan satisfies the statutory standard.
The former is not a substitute for the latter. They are
independent."
The nature and degree of exactness of the findings required depends on the circumstances of the particular
case. In the Western Pacific and Chicago, Milwaukee,
St. Paul & Pacific cases, we pointed out that in cases of
railroad reorganization, the duty of making basic evidentiary findings does not require a determination in
terms of dollars and cents of the value of the assets subject to the respective liens. We held that it was sufficient if the Commission's report set forth its conclusion
as to the prospective earning power of the reorganized
road, with findings supporting its apportionment of future earnings among creditors and stockholders so as to
preserve their relative priorities, together with reasons
for its conclusions and essential supporting data. Once
the priority of liens has been determined, considered estimates of future earning power afford a substantial basis
for appraising the interests of the respective lienors. As
such estimates involve an element of prophecy, the reorganization of properties which cannot readily be liquidated requires resort to "practical adjustments, rather
than a rigid formula," Consolidated Rock Products Co. v.
DuBois, supra, 529. Hence we concluded that findings
of the future earnings of the reorganized railroad distributable to each class of security holders and creditors
were an adequate substitute for findings of asset value
in terms of dollars and cents, which we held could be dispensed with as affording no more than a delusive appearance of a certainty which the subject matter did not
warrant.
Delusive exactness of findings is likewise not demanded
in cases of municipal bankruptcy. But where future

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

tax revenues are the only source to which creditors can
look for payment of their claims, considered estimates of
those revenues constitute the only available basis for appraising the respective interests of different classes of
creditors. In order that a court may determine the fairness of the total amount of cash or securities offered to
creditors by the plan, the court must have before it data
which will permit a reasonable, and hence an informed,
estimate of the probable future revenues available for the
satisfaction of creditors.
And where, as here, different classes of creditors assert
prior claims to different spurces of revenue, there must be
a determination of the extent to which each class is entitled to share in a particular source, and of the fairness
of the allotment to each class in the light of the probable
revenues to be anticipated from each source. To support
such determinations, there must be findings, in such detail and exactness as the nature of the case permits, of
subsidiary facts on which the ultimate conclusion of fairness can rationally be predicated.
The findings in the present case fall short or tnat requirement.1 Appropriate facts which might have been
1 The master,

whose findings were adopted pro forma by the District
Court, approved the classification of debts proposed in the plan, and
made findings as to the amount of indebtedness of each class. He substantially paraphrased the recitals of the plan as to the sources to
which each class of creditors could look for payment, and found that
the acreage tax, out of which Class I debts were payable, was "the
main source of revenue of the District." He stated:
"Some of the objecting creditors have taken the position that the

Plan of Composition, as amended, provides for the use of acreage
tax funds for purposes other than the payment of bonds and interest
coupons, and one might get that impression from simply reading isolated parts of the Plan, but, taking it as a whole, it does not so provide."
And, in answer to the contention that the plan violated the so-called
"rule of absolute priority" (see Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Co., 308

U. S. 106), he said:

KELLEY v. EVERGLADES DISTRICT.
415

421

Opinion of the Court.

considered, but which are nowhere referred to in the opinions or findings below, are the revenues which have in
the past been received from each source of taxation, the
present assessed value of property subject to each tax,
the tax rates currently prescribed, the probable effect
on future revenues of a revision in the tax structure
adopted in 1941, the extent of past tax delinquencies,
and any general economic conditions of the District which
may reasonably be expected to affect the percentage of
future delinquencies. It may be that adequate evidence
as to these matters is in the present record. On that we
do not pass, for it is not the function of this Court to search
the record and analyze the evidence in order to supply
"A superficial reading of the Plan might so indicate, but a careful
analysis of the entire Plan, the provisions of the loan, the conditions
of payment of two classes of debts, and a practical application of the
Plan to the District debts, resolves that question against such theory."
These were the only two findings made by the master relative to the
rights of the two classes of creditors inter se or to the amount of
revenues likely to be available for service of the debt. Without further
findings on these vital matters the master concluded that: "The Proposed Plan of Composition, as amended, is fair, equitable and for the
beat interests of the creditors and does not discriminate unfairly in favor
of any creditor or class of creditors."
The Circuit Court of Appeals clarified the master's findings as to the
respective rights of each class of creditors by expressly stating that the
Class II indebtedness was a first charge on the receipts from the ad
valorem tax. It pointed out that in order that the District might
exercise its maximum borrowing power it must extinguish all existing
claims against the acreage and ad valorem taxes, and that in 1941 the
tax structure had been revised so as to make all possible taxing resources available for payment of the new bonds issued to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. From this it concluded without further
discussion that "Provision for payment of 26.140 on the dollar to
discharge Class II debts was fully authorized by the facts, and was
not inequitable, unfair, or discriminatory."
Beyond this none of the findings or opinions below present any discussion of facts relating to the fairness of. the respective treatment
accorded the two classes of creditorsby the plan.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

findings which the trial court failed to make. Nor do we
intimate that findings must be made on all of the enumerated matters or need be made on no others; the nature of
the evidentiary findings sufficient and appropriate to support the court's decision as to fairness or unfairness is for
the trial court to determine in the first instance in the
light of the circumstances of the particular case. We
hold only that there must be findings, stated either in the
court's opinion or separately, which are sufficient to indicate the factual basis for the ultimate conclusion.
Since the state of the record is such that a proper determination of the questions of law raised by petitioners'
contentions as to the treatment of Class II creditors cannot be made in the absence of suitable findings, the petition for writ of certiorari is granted, the judgment is
vacated, and the cause remanded to the District Court
for appropriate action in conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting:

I cannot agree that this case should be summarily
remanded. In June, 1941, the District filed an application for composition of its debts. The petitioners here
filed a motion to dismiss, which was overruled. They
appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, making contentions which that court found to be "technical in the
extreme." Kelley v. EvergladesDrainageDistrict,127 F.
2d 808, 809. When the case came back before the Circuit Court of Appeals in the instant proceedings, that
court found from the entire record that these petitioners
had by "unfounded and extremely technical contentions
. . . sought to obstruct the plan." 132 F. 2d 742, 744,
745.
Reversal for more findings means still further delay
in bringing about what is undoubtedly a much needed
financial reorganization. While I am certain that the

STEPHAN v. UNITED STATES.
415

Counsel for Parties.

courts below could couch their findings in different and
more words, I am by no means sure they could set
out with greater clarity their conclusion that the evidence shows both groups of bondholders to- have been
accorded fair and equitable treatment. The decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals was made with full appreciation and after full consideration of the issues, the evidence, and the District Court's findings. Under these circumstances, I-should prefer to deny certiorari, but since the
Court has determined to grant review, I think we should not
dispose of the case without first giving the parties an opportunity to argue the issues. On the record as I now see
it, the findings were abundantly adequate, and the conclusion of the Circuit Court of Appeals was correct.
STEPHAN v. UNITED STATES.
ON APPLICATION FOR ALLOWANCE OF APPEAL FROM THE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. -.

Decided June 1, 1943.

1. A conviction in a capital case in the District Court is not appealable directly to this Court. Judicial Code (1911), 36 Stat. 1087.

P. 426.
2. Where the United States Code and the Statutes at Large are inconsistent, the latter prevail. P. 426.
Application denied.
APPLICATION for allowance of a direct appeal from a

conviction in the District Court in, a capital case.
49 F. Supp. 897.

See

Messrs. Nicholas Salowich and James E. McCabe were
on the brief for the applicant.
Solicitor General Fahy was on the brief for the United
States.

