JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N.

61

Syllabus.
JERSEY CENTRAL POWER & LIGHT CO. v. FEDERAL POWER COMMISSION.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 299. Argued January 4, 5, 1943. Reargued March 4, 5, 1943.Decided May 3, 1943.
1. The conclusion of the Federal Power Commission in this case that
facilities owned and operated by a power company within a Statewhich connected with facilities of a second company, also within
the State, whose facilities connected with those of a third company,
in another State-were utilized for the transmission of electric energy
across state lines, held supported by substantial evidence. P. 67.
2. Federal regulation of the transmission of electric energy in interstate
commerce, under the Federal Power Act of 1935, is not limited to
energy at the instant it crosses the state line, nor to companies which
own the facilities which cross the line. P. 71.
3. The jurisdiction of the Federal Power Commission does not extend
to all connecting transmission facilities but only to those which
transmit energy actually moving in interstate commerce. P. 72.
4. Since the power company here in question owns and operates a
transmission line which is a facility within the jurisdiction of the
Federal Power Commission under § 201 (b), it is a "public utility"
under § 201 (e). P. 73.
5. The purchase by a company which is a public utility under the
Federal Power Act, of the stock of another company which also
is a public utility under the Act, requires the approval of the Federal Power Commission, notwithstanding that the purchase could
be, and the transfer is, regulated by the State. P. 74.
6. The limitation of § 201 (a) of the Federal Power Act--"such federal regulation, however, to extend only to those matters which are
not subject to regulation by the States"-is inapplicable to regulation
under § 203 (a) of the acquisition of securities. P. 76.
129 F. 2d 183, affirmed.
*Together with No. 329, New Jersey Power & Light Co. v. Federal
Power Commission, also on writ of certiorari, 317 U. S. 610, to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 610, to review the affirmance of an
order of the Federal Power Commission, 30 P. U. R.
(N. S.) 33.

Mr. John W. MacDonaldfor petitioner in No. 299, and
Messrs. Frederic P. Glick and Allen E. Throop for petitioner in No. 329. Mr. Reynier J. Wortendyke, Jr. was
with them on a joint brief.
Assistant Attorney General Shea argued the cause on
the reargument and Mr. Lester P. Schoene on the original
argument, and Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs. Paul
A. Sweeney, CharlesV. Shannon, Lambert McAllister, and
Howard E. Wahrenbrock were with them on the brief, for
respondent.
Mr. FrankH. Sommer filed a brief on behalf of the State
of New Jersey, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
delivered the opinion of the Court.
These two cases bring here for review the construction
of §§ 201 and 203 (a) of the Federal Power Act, as
amended by the Public Utility Act of 1935.1 These sections are included in Title II, Part II, of the latter act,
which Part relates to federal regulation of the business of
the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce
and the sale of such energy at wholesale. By these sections, the public utilities subject to the Federal Power
Commission are defined and the acquisition of securities
of such utilities by any other utility subject to the act is
MR. JUSTICE REED

forbidden without authorization of the Commission.

I. After the enactment of the above amendments to the
Federal Power Act, and without seeking Commission authorization, the New Jersey Power & Light Company purchased from others than the issuer certain securities of
the Jersey Central Power & Light Company. The Fed149

Stat. 803, 847, 849, 16 U. S. C. §§ 824, 824 (b).

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
61

63

Opinion of the Court.

eral Power Conmnission, being of the opinion that both
the purchaser and the issuer were public utilities within
the definition of the Federal Power Act and that therefore the acquisition of the stock was illegal, on June 7,
1938, entered an order that the purchaser submit information concerning the acquisition of the stock and show
cause why the Commission should not proceed to enforce
the requirements of the act. To this order, the purchaser
answered that the Jersey Central was not a public utility
within the definition of the act and that the approval by
the Federal Power Commission to the acquisition was
therefore not required by law. By permission of the Commission, the Jersey Central intervened and made the
same contention as to its status. Thus there were presented for determination two questions: first, whether
Jersey Central was a public utility under the act; and
second, whether if it was a public utility, this acquisition
of its stock was permissible in view of the declaration of
§ 201 (a) that federal regulation should "extend only to
those matters which are not subject to regulation by the
States." This purchase is subject to regulation by New
Jersey.
It is admitted that the purchaser, Jersey Power, is a
public utility under the ac4. The Commission after. investigation and hearing held that Jersey Central also was
a public utility under the act. 30 P. U, R. (N. S.) 33.
This holding was based on findings that Jersey Central
owns and operates transmission facilities (an electric line)
extending from its substation adjacent to its generating
plant in South Amboy, New Jersey, to the south bank
of the Raritan River in the same state where the line
joins the transmission facilities of another company, not
here involved, the Public Service Electric & Gas Company. This latter company transmits the energy from
the point of junction on the Raritan to a common bus

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

bar 2 in one of its substations, located also in New Jersey
, t Mechanic Street, Perth Amboy. From the bus bar,
-Public Service has transmission facilities extending to the
,inid-channel of Kill van Kull, a body of water between
-New Jersey and Staten Island, New York. At mid-chan'-nel, Staten Island Edison Corporation, another utility,
connects with its transmission facilities which extend to
its own Atlantic substation on Staten Island. The Commission further found, in the words quoted below, that
energy generated in New Jersey by Jersey Central was
consumed in New York and energy generated in New
York was consumed in New Jersey.'
The evidence upon which these findings were based
showed that the energy was deliveretd from Jersey Central
2 A bus conductor, or group of conductors, is a switchgear assembly which serves as a common connection for three or more circuits,
American StandardDefinitions of Electric Terms, published by American Institute of Electrical Engineers, p. 97.
330 P. U. R. (N. S.) 33, 36: "that the transmission facilities described provide a direct and interconnected line for the flow of electric energy between the substation of Jersey Central Power & Light
Company located adjacent to. its generating plant in South Amboy
and Atlantic substation of Staten Island Edison Corporation on
Staten Island in the state of New York, via Mechanic street substation, and electric energy was transmitted over such transmission facilities between such points via Mechanic street substation on numerous occasions during certain days and almost daily throughout
1936, 1937, and to Scptember, 1938; that there is no evidence or testimony of any change in such operations during this period or subsequent thereto; that electric energy transmitted over facilities extending from the substation adjacent to the generating plant of Jersey
Central Power & Light Company in South Amboy, New Jersey to
Atlantic substation, on Staten Island, in the state of New York, via
Mechanic street substation, is generated in the state of New Jersey
and consumed in the state of New York; that electric energy transmitted from Atlantic Street substation to the substation of Jersey
Central Power & Light Company in South Amboy, New Jersey, via
Mechanic street substation, is generated in the state of New York and
onsumed in the state of New Jersey; .

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
61

65

Opinion of the Court.

to and from Public Service under contract and that Public
Service likewise delivered and received energy under contract to and from Staten Island Edison. Jersey Central
had no control over the destination of its energy after it
made delivery to Public Service at the Raritan but it did,
of course, control the distribution of energy received from
Public Service. The deliveries from Jersey Central to
Public Service were substantial, above fifty-five million
kilowatt hours in each year of the period 1934 to 1937,
inclusive. Those from Public Service to Staten Island
were smaller for the same period, amounting to three to
four million k. w. h. annually and the flow from Staten
Island to Public Service aggregated about the same
amount. Although, as will appear hereafter, the evidence
shows some Jersey Central energy is consumed in New
York, the amount is unknown.
The connection between Public Service and Staten
Island is maintained primarily to guard the Staten Island
distribution against breakdown. It is used for emergencies a few times per year on an average. Surplus energy
is occasionally sold. The rest of the time the line is maintained "in balance." This is to avoid a delay of transmission in an emergency. If the connection were not maintained, an appreciable time would be lost in communicating and reestablishing the connection. Any oscillation of
the balance, created by increased demand in New York or
New Jersey, carries energy in one direction or in another
to be consumed on one side or the other of the line between
the states. This is called "slop-over" energy. These bulk
deliveries were the subject of the sale agreements between
Public Service and Staten Island.
Since the bus bar into which the Jersey Central energy
is fed also receives large amounts of energy from other
sources, the facts heretofore detailed do not prove conclusively that energy generated by Jersey Central passes to
and is consumed in New York. This further evidence

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

appears from testimony presented by investigators of the
Commission. Their examination of Public Service records discloses that there were moments of time between
January 26, 1937, and September 6, 1938, when all the
energy flowing into the bus bar at Mechanic Street came
from Jersey Central and at the same moments energy
flowed from Mechanic Street in New Jersey to the Atlantic
substation in New York. As no pools of energy exist from
which the flow to New York could have been drawn, it
necessarily follows that Jersey Central production was
instantaneously transmitted to New York. Cf. Utah
Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S.165. The amount
of energy transmitted was small. The evidence was
developed from 184 log readings selected from 25,000.
Of the 184 log readings, 12 showed this flow of energy from
Jersey Central to New York between August 26, 1935, the
-effective date of the Federal Power Act, and March 14,
1938, the date of the present purchase of stock.' Twelve
showed such flow shortly after the purchase.

'There is dispute as to whether the 184 instances selected for examination were typical. In view of the evidence just detailed as to the
serlice arrangements between Jersey Central and Public Service, and
Public Service and Staten Island Edison, this seems of no importance.
There is no contention that the energy actually transmitted interstate
shall be treated as accidental or that it falls under the de minimis rule.
The method of selection is explained as follows:
"Q ....
Then you have taken some 150* readings out of approximately 25,000 readings. Just why did you take these particular 150,
Mr. Grimsley? A. At times when considerable power was going over
from Jersey Central and for the same period it was going to Staten
Island. That was necessary to make my determination. Now we
might get 15,000, I don't know, to compare with those, but the point
was to establish certain conditions at time of flow and at times when
there was no energy flowing to Staten Island there was no point in
taking those readings.
"Q. These are hand:-picked readings where you worked toward a
particular result and you selected those that would best show what you
desired to establish? A. I was trying to get a condition when the

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 67
61

Opinion of the Court

This evidence, we think, furnishes substantial basis'
for the conclusion of the Commission that facilities of
Jersey Central are utilized for the transmission of electric
energy across state lines.
Petitions for rehearing were denied. An appeal was
taken to the Circuit Court of Ai)peals under the provisions of § 313 of the act.0 The determination of the
Commission was affirmed, 129 F. 2d 183, and in view of
the important questions of federal law raised by the petitions for certiorari, we granted review. 317 U. S. 610.
The primary purpose of Title H, Part II, of the 1935
amendments to the Federal Power Act, supra note'l, was
to give a federal agency power to regulate the sale of
electric energy across state lines. Regulation of such
sales had been denied to the states by Public Utilities
energy was coming over from Jersey Central and flowing to Staten
Island and over a period that might be considered typical.
"Q. Just a moment-A. (interposing) I don't know unless we go
through all of them and compare them with these.
"Q. I suppose it would be pretty easy to pick out 150 other examples
when power is flowing from Metuchen substation to Staten Island
supplying the Mechanic Street load, would it not? A. Oh, I think so,
yes. Maybe more."
I
*The Commission's witness Grimsley spoke of 150 instances, but
actual count discloses 184.
5
"The finding of the Commission as to the facts, if supported by
substantial evidence, shall be conclusive." § 313 (b), 49 Stat. 860,
16 U. S. C. § 8251 (b).
6The order entered determined that Jersey Central Power & Light
Company is a public utility and that the acquisition of its stock by
New Jersey Power & Light Company was a violation of § 203 (a) of
the Federal Power Act. 30 P. U. R. (N. S.) 33, 36. This order
fixed the status of Jersey Central as a utility amenable to the provisions of the Act: e. g., rates, § 205 (a); ascertainment of cost of
property, § 209 (a); accounts, §0201. Rochester Telephone Corp. v.
United States, 307 U. . 125; Federal Power Commission v. Pacific
Co., 307 U. S. 156; Columbia Broadcasting System v. United States,
316 U. S. 407.

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319

U. S.

Commission v. Attleboro Steam Co., 273 U. S. 83. On
account of the development of interstate sales of electric energy, it was deemed desirable by Congress to enter
this field of regulation
II. Petitioners concede that some energy generated by
Jersey Central and sol and delivered by it to Public
Service passes thereafter to New York. Their contention is that the arrangements by which this energy 'passes
to New York does not make Jersey Central a public utility,
S. Rep. No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 17:
"i, recent years the growth of giant holding companies has been
paralleled by the rapid development of the electric industry along
lines that transcend State boundaries. To a great extent through the
agency of the holding company, local operating units have been tied
together into vast interstate systems. As a result the proportion of electric energy that crosses State lines has steadily increased. While
in 1928, 10.7 percent of the.power generated in the United States
was transmitted across State lines, the percentage had increased
by 1933 to 17.8. The amount of energy which flowed in interstate
commerce in 1933 exceeded the entire amount generated in the
country in 1913.
"The new part 2 of the Federal Water Power Act would constitute
the first assertion of Federal jurisdiction over this major interstate
public utility. The decision of the Supreme Court in Public Utilities
Commission v. Attleboro Steam Co. (273 U. S. 83) placed the interstate wholesale transactions of the electric utilities entirely beyond the
reach of the States. Other features of this interstate utility business are
equally immune from State control either legally or practically.
. "The necessity for Federal leadership in securing planned coordination of the facilities of the industry which alone can produce an abundance of electricity at the lowest possible cost has be6n clearly revealed
in the recent reports of the Federal Power Commission, the Mississippi
Valley Committee, and the National Resources Board. Assertion
of the power of the Federal Government in.this direction becomes
the more important at the time when the Federal Government is
compelling the reorganization of holding companies along regional
lines. The new part 2 of the Federal Water Power Act seeks to
bring about the regional coordination of the operating facilities of
the interstate utilities along the same lines within which the financial
and managerial control is limited by Title I of the bill."

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
61

69

Opinion of the Court.

within the definition of the act, because it "does not own
or operate facilities for the transmission of ele*ctric energy,
or sale of electric energy at wholesale, in interstate commerce." "A person owning or operating facilities . . .
must own the facilities which transmit--send across--the
energy, and this connotes voluntary, intentional action."
From the asserted fact that Jersey Central has no control
over the energy produced by it after its delivery to Public
Service, petitioners conclude that this short transmission
and sale, wholly in New Jersey, is an intrastate transaction. Without this separation from the movement across
the New Jersey-New York line, the transmission by Jersey
Central would fall within the definition of commerce
declared by two former decisions of this Court.
In Public Utilities Commission v. Attleboro Steam Co.,
273 U. S. 83, 86, this Court held in interstate commerce
the sale of locally produced electric current at the state
boundary with knowledge that the buyer would utilize
the energy extrastate. The passage of custody and title
at the line was held immaterial. We see no distinction
between a sale at or before reaching- the state line.
The other case is Illinois Gas Co. v. Public Service Co.,
314 U. S. 498. In this case, a wholly-owned subsidiary
bought gas in Illinois from its parent corporation. The
parent had transported the gas across the state line and
delivered it at a reduced pressure to the subsidiary in Illinois. The subsidiary transported the gas wholly intrastate and sold and, on again reducing pressure, delivered
it to an Illinois distributing company. The intrastate
movement by the subsidiary was held by us to be a part
of interstate commerce. We said that the point at which
title and custody passed, without arresting movement,
did not affect the essential interstate movement of the
business.
But we need not decide whether the intervention of
Public Service between Jersey Central and Staten Island

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Edison and the consequent loss of actual control of the
energy by Jersey Central is significant to distinguish the

two cases just cited. Petitioners, as we understand their
briefs, concede, and rightly so, that power rests in Congress to regulate such a flow of energy from Jersey Central

as here occurs. Such a flow affects commerce. Cf. Wickard v. Filburn,317 U. S. 111, and cases cited." But petitioners say that Congress did not intend to exercise its
full power over interstate transmission and directed only

that transmission "in interstate commerce" should be regulated. As contrasted with "affecting commerce" in the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, 49 Stat.
803, § 1 (c), or the "current of commerce" in the Commodity Exchange Act, 42 Stat. 998, or the broad language
of the Bituminous Coal Act, 50 Stat. 83, or the Agricultural Adjustment Act, 50 Stat. 246, the words "in interstate commerce" are said, by petitioners, to be the "strictest test of jurisdiction available to Congress." But the
argument, we think, gives no effect to the definition of
"transmitted in interstate commerce" as used in this act.
In the note below there is set out the pertinent provisions
of § 201 which indicate the meaning given the phrase,
which provisions are italicized for quick reference.' Subsections (a) and (b) show the intent to regulate such
transactions as are beyond state power under the Attle8 Cf. Peoples Natural Gas Co. v. FederalPower Comm'n, 127 F. 2d
153, 157; Hartford Electric Light Co. v. FederalPower Comm'n, 131
F. 2d 953, 958.
9
The Federal Power Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 847:
"Section 201. (a) It is hereby declared that the business of transmitting and selling electric energy for ultimate distribution to the
public is affected with a public interest, and that Federal regulation
of matters relating to generation to the extent provided in this Part
and the Part next following and of that part of such business which
consists of the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce
and the sale of such energy at wholesale in interstate commerce is
necessary in the public interest, such Federal regulation, however, to

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 71
61

Opinion of the Court.

boro case, supra. Subsection (c) defines the electric energy in commerce as that "transmitted from a State and
consumed at any point outside thereof." There was no
change in this definition in the various drafts of the bill.
The definition was used to "lend precision to the scope
of the bill." 10 It is impossible for us to conclude that this
definition means less than it says and applies only to the
energy at the instant it crosses the state line and so only
to the facilities which cross the line and only to the company which owns the facilities which cross the line. The
purpose of this act was primarily to regulate the rates
and charges of the interstate energy. If intervening companies might purchase from producers in the state of
production, free of federal control, cost would be fixed
extend only to those matters which are not subject to regulation by
the States.
"(b) The provisions of this Part shall apply to the transmission of
electric energy in interstatecommerce and to the sale of electric energy
at wholesale in interstate commerce, but shall not apply to any other
sale of electric energy or deprive a State or State commission of its
lawful authority now exercised over the exportation of hydroelectric
energy which is transmitted across a State line. The Commission
shall have jurisdiction over all facilities for such transmission or sale
of electric energy, but shall not have jurisdiction, except as secifically provided in this Part and the Part next following, over facilities
used for the generation of electric energy or over facilities used in local
distribution or only for the transmission of electric energy in intrastate
commerce, or over facilities for the transmission of electric energy
consumed wholly by the transmitter.
. "(c) For the purpose of this Part, electric energy shall be held
to be transmitted in interstate commerce if transmitted'from a State
and consumed at any point outside thereof; but only insofar as such
transmission takes place within the United States.
"(e) The term 'public utility' when used in this Part or in the Part
next following means any person who owns or operates facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under this Part."
10 S.Rep. No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 49.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

72

Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

prior to the incidence of federal regulation and federal rate
control would be substantially impaired, if not rendered
futile.
Petitioners make the point, however, that this interpretation subjects connected facilities to the Commission's
jurisdiction which facilities were deliberately eliminated
by Congress. As an illustration they cite the provisions
of § 201 (a) as they appeared in a predecessor bill."' We
do not think that the result which the petitioners apprehend follows from our interpretation. The language of
§ 201 (a) and (b) indicates a distinction between the
facilities for generation or production and those for transmission. Also, it is sales at wholesale only which are
regulated and, finally, Commission power does not extend
over all connecting transmitting facilities but only over
those which transmit energy actually moving in interstate
commerce. Mere connection determines nothing.
Further, we think the definition in subsection (e) of
"public utility" covers Jersey Central, since that company
owns and operates the transmission line to the Raritan
and that line, as a result of the interpretation of interstate
commerce in the preceding paragraph, is a facility under
Commission jurisdiction by the terms of subsection (b).
Subsection (b) declares that the provisions of this part
apply "to the transmission of electric energy at wholesale
in interstate commerce." This subsection gives jurisdiction over facilities used for such transmission. The
business of transmitting and selling electric energy is said
S. 1725, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., February 6, 1935:
"The provisions of this title shall apply to the transmission and sale
of electric energy in interstate commerce and to the production of
energy for such transmission and sale, but shall not apply to the retail
sale of energy in local distribution. The Commission shall have jurisdiction over all facilities for such transmission, sale, and/or production
of energy by any means and over all facilities connected therewith as
11

parts of a system of power transmission situated in more than one
State. ..."

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 73
Opinion of the Court.

61

to be affected with a public interest and federal regulation
of a portion of that business is declared necessary. § 201
(a). The fact that a company is engaged in this business
is not determinative of its inclusion in this act. The
determinative fact is the ownership of facilities used in
transmission. Such use makes the owner or operator of
such facilities a public utility under the act (e). We conclude, therefore, that Jersey Central is a public utility
under this.a&ct: It is quite clear, however, from § 201 that
althoughla company may be a public utility under subsection (6), all of its transactions do not thereby fall under
the regulatory, power of the Commission. In the next
section of this opinion, we consider whether this purchase
of stock is subject to Commission regulation.
III. Although only the facilities of a public utility used
in the transmission or sale at wholesale of electric energy
in interstate commerce or the rates and charges for such
energy are subjected by Parts II and III of the act to
regulation by the Federal Power Commission, that Commission has general power over the issue of all securities or
assumption of all obligations by such a public utility.':
This generality of control is in turn limited by an exception
in the case of utilities organized and operating in a state
where its security issues are regulated' by a state
commission."
"See. 204. (a) No public utility shall issue any security, or assume
any obligation or liability as guarantor, indorser, surety, or otherwise
in respect of any security of another person, unless and until, and then
only to the extent that, upon application by the public utility, the
Commission by order authorizes such issue or assumption of
12

liability. ..."

There is the same extent of control over records and accounts.
§ 301 (a).
13 Sec. 204. "(f) The provisions of this section shall not extend to
a public utility organized and operating in a State under the laws of
which its security issues are regulated by a State commission."

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

In the section of Part II in question here, however,
which prohibits the purchase of the security of any other
public utility, without authorization of the Commission,
there is no exception of any kind." Consequently the
action of Jersey Power, admittedly a public utility under
Part II, in purchasing the stock of Jersey Central, hereinbefore held to be a public utility under the act, requires
Commission approval, unless some other provision of law
exempts the transaction from this control. Petitioners
find this exemption in the concluding words of § 201 (a),
"such Federal regulation, however, to extend only to those
matters which are not subject to regulation by the
States." 1 The Commission denies that this limitation is
to be read into § 203 (a). If the limitation is to be read as
applying to § 203 (a), the limitation exempts this transaction and the purchase here involved is beyond the reach
of Commission power for the reason that the purchase
could be and the transfer is regulated by the State of New
Jersey."0
It will be observed that § 201 (a) is a declaration of the
end sought by the enactment of this Part, that is, federal
regulation of the generation, transmission and sale of electric energy in commerce. The sounder conclusion, it seems
to us, is that this limitation is directed at generation,
transmission and sale rather than the corporate financial
arrangements of the utilities engaged in such production
1""Sec. 203. (a) No public utility shall sell, lease, or otherwise
dispose of the whole of its facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the
Commission, or any part thereof of a value in excess of $50,000, or by
any means whatsoever, directly or indirectly, merge or consolidate such
facilities or any part thereof with those of any other person, or
purchase, acquire, or take any security of any other public utility,
without first having secured an order. of the Commission authorizing it
to do so. .. ."
15See Note 9, supra.
16 § 19 of the Act of April 21, 1911, as amended. New Jersey Stat.
Ann. 48: 3-10.

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
61

75

Opinion of the Court.

and distribution. This conclusion finds strong support in
the fact that not only § 203 (a), here under discussion,
but §§ 204 (a)," 208 and 301 (a)'" regulate matters
obviously subject to state regulation. If the scope of the
limitation was as broad as petitioners contend, none of
these sections just referred to would be effective. Section 203 (a) would be a nullity as of course the disposition
and acquisition of facilities, merger, consolidation or purchase of securities by their utilities may be regulated by
the states. But this does not follow where a specific limitation is placed on the issue of securities by § 204. Section 204 is not rendered' useless by subsection (f) since
it is applicable to states without state commissions authorized to regulate security issues. See notes 12 and 13,
supra. In view of the contemporaneous legislation as to
See Note 12, supra.
18 "Sec. 208. (a) The Commission may investigate and ascertain
the actual legitimate cost of the property of every public utility, the
depreciation therein, and, when found necessary for rate-making purposes, other facts which bear on the determination of such cost or
depreciation, and the fair value of such property.
"(b) Every public utility upon request shall file with the Commission an inventory of all or any part of its property and a statement
of the original cost thereof, and shall keep the Commission informed
regarding the cost of all additions, betterments, extensions, and new
construction." 49 Stat. 853, 16 _U.S. C. § 824 (g).
19 "Section 301. (a) Every licensee and public utility shall make,
keep, and preserve for such periods, such accounts, records or costaccounting procedures, correspondence, memoranda, papers, books,
and other records ag the Commission may by rules and regulations
prescribe as necessary or appropriate for purposes of the administration of this Act, including accounts, records, and memoranda of the
generation, transmission, distribution, delivery, or sale of electric energy, the furnishing of services or facilities in connection therewith, and
receipts and expenditures with respect to any of the foregoing: Provided, however, That nothing in this Act shall relieve any public
utility from keeping any accounts, memoranda, or records which such
public utility may be required to. keep by or under authority of the
17

laws of any State. . .
531559-44-9

."

Id. 854, 16 U.S.C. § 825.

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

holding companies (Title I, Public Utility Act of 1935, 49
Stat. 803) which left independent operating companies
or subsidiaries of unregistered holding companies free to
acquire securities in other operating companies, ° it is
difficult to conclude that by § 201 (a) Congress limited
the regulation of the acquisition of securities by § 203
(a).21

The legislative history points to this result. When S.
2796, containing the progenitor of the disputed section,
was reported by the Committee on Interstate Commerce
of the Seriate,22 § 201 (a) concluded:
"It is further declared to be the policy of Congress to
-extend Federal regulation to those matters which cannot
be regulated by the States, and'also to exert Federal authority to strengthen and assist the States 'in the exercise
of their regulatory powers and not to impair or diminish
the powers of any State commission."
The same bill had §§ 208 (a) and 301 (a), just referred
to, which did regulate matters which could be regulated
by the states. After its passage through- the Senate in
this form, the bill went to the House and 201 (a) was
there amended by the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce (H. Rep. No. 1318, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.,
June 24, 1935) to conelude, as it now does, "such Federal
regulation, however, to extend only to those matters
which are not subject to regulation by the States." The
report, although it commented on the section, did not
mention- this change as one of substance from the conclusion of the Senate bill. H. Rep. No. 1318, 74th Cong.,
§ 9 (a) and (b), 49 Stat. 817.
Rep. No. 621, 74th Cong., Ist Seas., p. 50, in referring to what is
now § 203 (a), said: "In this way the Commission would have authority to keep the same kind of check upon the creation of spheres of influence among operating companies that the Securities and Exchange
Commission has over holding companies under title I."
20

21 S.

n Id.

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 77
Opinion of the Court.

61

1st Sess., p. 26. Sections 208 and 301, with their regulation of matters subject to state regulation, remained
unchanged. More significant even than these indicia
of the scope of the concluding words of § 201 (a) is the
fact that the Committee which adopted the new concluding words, adopted also § 204, subsection (f), withdrawing federal regulation from security issues where such
issues are "regulated by a state commission." While, of
course, this may have been done to make certain that
state power would not be infringed, such meticulous care
was entirely unnecessary, if the wording of § 201 (a),
simultaneously added, had the effect now urged." One
might deduce from the language of the report in the House
that the precise question at issue here was in the mind
of the House Committee and was resolved in accord with
our conclusion.24 From this record of the pains taken by
the Congress to make clear the respective responsibilities
The language added to § 201 (a) and § 204 (f) is practically
identical with the suggestions made by the National Association of
Railroad and Utility Commissioners. Senate Hearings, Committee
on Interstate Commerce, Public Utility Holding Company Act of
23

1935, pp. 748-51.

2#Public Utility Act of 1935, H. Rep. No. 1318, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., General Purpose of Title. "Part 11 gives control over security issues of interstate operating companies in cases where no
State commission has control and over the consolidation, purchase,
and sale of interstate operating properties." Page 8.
Sectional Analysis of Bill:
"Section 203. Disposition of Property; Consolidations; Purchase
of Securities
"Under the provisions of this section, approval must be secured
for the sale, lease, or other disposition by a public utility of all of its
facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission, or any part of
the facilities in excess of a value of $100,000, and for mergers or consolidations of such facilities or for the purchase by a public utility
of the securities of any other public-utility company. Commission
approval of an acquisition, consolidation, or control would remove

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

of federal and state authorities, we conclude that power
was given the Federal Power Commission by § 203 to regulate the present transaction.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

The sole question is whether Jersey Central Power &
Light Company is a public utility within the meaning of
subchapter II of the Federal Power Act.
The company's business is the generation of electricity
within New Jersey, and distribution of it in the State,
principally by retail sale to the public. Its physical property is within New Jersey. It neither owns nor operates
any facility which crosses a state line.
Jersey Central exchanges electric energy with another
utility, Public Service. The physical hook-up by which
this exchange is effected is such that Jersey Central at
times transmits electricity to Public Service and at times
receives electricity from Public Service. Jersey Central
owns and operates a transmission line seven-eighths of
a mile long extending from its power plant to another
point in the State where the line connects to a cable owned
by Public Service running to a station owned by the latter
at Perth Amboy, New Jersey. Over these connecting facilities exchanges of two sorts are made. One is of,emer4
gency service whereby, in case of a breakdown in either
company's system, energy is drawn from that of the other.
such transaction from the prohibitory provisions of any other law."
Page 28.
Section 204:
"The requirement of subsection (f) of the Senate bill that applicable State laws must be complied with before Commission approval
may. be given, has been changed to authorize security issues without
Federal approval where such issues are regulated by a State commission in which the public utility is organized and operating."
Page 28.

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
61

ROBERTS,

79

J., dissenting.

The second is of economy flow energy, delivery of which
takes place to either company when the other is able to
generate at less cost than the receiving company could
with its own facilities. The savings effected by the latter
exchange are divided between the companies.
Any flow of electric energy from Jersey Central to Public Service is carried from the point'of connection over
Public Service cable to a so-called bus bar, a facility of
Public Service located in New Jersey having a number
of connections, one of which is with a transmission line
connecting the Public Service system with that of Staten
Island Edison in the State of New York. Over this line
Public Service and Staten Island exchange from time to
time emergency service. To accomplish this the lines of
the two companies are always connected so that, whenever there is demand for additional energy by either company, the current flowing from the plant of the other supplies the deficiency until a spe~d up of the generators
of the receiving company takes care of the lbad and stops
the draught upon the energy supply of the other.
The lines of Jersey Central and Public Service are likewise always connected so that, in case of emergency, some
of.the energy generated by Jersey Central may pass over
the lines of Public Service or vice versa. Thus energy
generated by any of the three systems at times reaches
that of one of the others in case of a deficiency of generation on the line of that other. This current, passing for
short periods from time to time, due to an imbalance of
potential between the interconnected systems, is called
slop-over current.
Jersey Central has no contractual relations with Staten
Island and does not sell it any energy. Jersey Central's
relations with Public Service are independent of any contractual relations between the latter and Staten Island.
At times when energy is flowing from Jersey Central to
.Public Service it is also flowing from Public Service to

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
RommTS, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

Staten Island and, in fact, at such times, some of the
energy sold by Jersey Central to Public Service passes
from Public Service to Staten Island under Public Service's contractual arrangements with Staten Island.
On the basis of these facts, the Commission held that
Jersey Central owned and operated transmission facilities
utilized for the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce, and was, therefore, a public utility within
the meaning of the Act, although the company sells no
electricity directly in interstate commerce.
I am of opinion that the provisions of the Act require
the contrary conclusion, and this reading of the statute
is powerfully reinforced when the mischief intended to
be remedied and the legislative history of the Act are
considered.
There is no dispute concerning the exigency Which
moved Congress to adopt the statute. It had been settled
that the transmission and sale of a commodity, such as
electricity or-gas, produced in one state, transported and
furnished directly to consumers in another state, in interstate commerce, did not preclude regulation of the rates to
the consumer by the state of delivery.' In 1927, however,
this court held that where a company generated electric
energy and transmitted it, under contract, to another
public utility in an adjoining state, at the state line,
whence the purchasing company transmitted and sold the
energy to its consumers, the rate at which the first company sold to the second was not subject to regulation by
the authorities of the state of origination.' The court
stated: "The rate is therefore not subject to regulation by
either of the two States in the guise of protection to their
respective local interests; but, if such regulation is required it can only be attained by the exercise of the power
vested in Congress." It is clear that the mischief to be
1

Pennylvana Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission, 252 U. S. 23.

'Public Utilities Commission v. Attleboro Steam Co., 273 U. S. 83.

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 81
ROBRTS, J., dissenting.

61

remedied was the incompetence of the states to regulate
rates for the sale by the producer of electricity at wholesale
to be transmitted and delivered to an extrastate utility at
or across a state line. This was the problem and the only
problem which confronted the Congress. The legislation
itself discloses that, in enacting Part II of the Act,
Congress did not go beyond the needs of the situation.
Jersey Central's security issues are not subject to regulation under § 203 unless it is a public utility within the
definition of the Act. To determine whether it is, we must
turn to § 201. Subsection (e) defines a public utility as
"any person who owns or operates facilities subject to the
jurisdiction of the Commission under this Part." We
must look to other provisions of the section to ascertain what facilities are subject to the Commission's
jurisdiction.
Subsection (a) reads: "It is hereby declared that the
business-of transmitting and selling• electric energy for
ultimate distribution to the public is affected with a public
interest, and that Federal regulation of matters relating.t
generation to the extent provided in this Part . . . and of

that part of such business which consists of the transmissiQn of electric energy in interstate commerce and the sale
of such energy at wholesale in interstate commerce is
necessary'in the public interest, such Federal regulation,
however, to extend only to those -matterswhich are not
subject to regulation by the States." (Italics supplied.)
It is conceded that Jersey Central, as respects generation and sale of the energy in question, and as respects
also its security issues, was, at the date of adoption of the
federal Act, and still is, subject, to regulation under the
law of New Jersey, and that law does regulate these
matters."
8

N. J. Rev. Stats., 1937, Title 48, chaps. I to 3; N. J.Stats. Ann
48: 1-1 to 48: 3-20.

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

The nature of Jersey Central's dealing with Public Service certainly does not fairly fall within the scope of the
statutory description of the "business" of transmitting
and selling electric energy in interstate commerce. But,
out of abundance of caution, Congress added that the
federal regulation should extend only "to those matters
which are not subject to regulation by the States." Language could not be plainer, nor more clearly exclude the
present case. Congress desired to fill the gap left by the
inability of the states to regulate certain forms of interstate transmission and sale. Congress made clear that it
intended to go no further. The opinion of the court
ignores this fundamental declaration of purpose and policy
and reads as an independent mandate in vacuo the words
of subsection (e). This I think is not a fair construction.
Subsection (b) provides: "The provisions of this Part
shall apply to the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and to the sale of electric energy at
wholesale in interstate commerce, but shall not apply to
any other sale of electric energy. .. ." (Italics supplied.) Here again Congress is at pains to restrict the
federal regulation to a commercial transaction in interstate commerce to which the company to be regulated is
a party.
The electric current which sometimes reaches Staten
Island is, nodoubt, "propelled" in some measure by Jersey Central's dynamos, but whether the current shall go
to Staten Island or be used within the State is a matter
wholly beyond Jersey Central's control in point either
of law or of fact. Public Service may or may not choose
to transmit and sell the energy interstate as a part of the
interstate business which is subject to regulation by the
Commission. The current flows beyond the State line
only because Public Service maintains wires for that purpose and turns the current into them. What § 201 authorizes the Commission to regulate is "that part of such

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 83
61

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

business which consists of the transmission of electric
energy in interstate commerce." Jersey Central is not
engaged in the business of transmitting electric energy
beyond the point of connection with Public Service's system, certainly not beyond the bus bar where Public Service alone determines its destination. Nor is Jersey Central
engaged in interstate commerce because, after the current
reaches the bus bar Of Public Service, that company diverts
it to Staten Island.
The construction now given to the Act makes the Commission's power to regulate Jersey Central depend, not
on the nature of its own business, as § 201 (a) and (b)
plainly require,, but on the interstate character of the
business of Public Service, over which Jersey Central has
no control and which is subject to regulation by the Commission. § 201 (b) and (e). I can find no support in
the language, history or avowed purposes of the Act for
such a construction. Moreover, it is in flat contradiction to the words of § 201 (a), (b), and (e), which, when
read together, explicitly exclude from the jurisdiction of
the Commission a "person" who "owns or operates facilities" otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission by providing, in § 201 (a), that the federal regulation is "to extend only to those matters which are not'
subject to regulation by the States." Jersey Central is
engaged in generating electricity which it sells and delivers
to Public Service, all within the State. When the present
Act was adopted it was not doubted, and in the light of
our decisions it could not be, that the seller's business
was intrastate and subject to state regulation. The manufacture and sale of a product wholly within a state is
not interstate commerce even though the product is destined by the buyer to be shipped out of the state in interstate commerce.' That this is equally the case where
' See Chassaniol v.. Greenwood, 291 U. S. 584; Parker v. Brown.
317 U. S. 341, 360, 361, and cases cited.

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
RonmRTs, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

the product produced and sold within the state is gas or
electricity is implicit in our decisions." As will presently appear more in detail, while it was the purpose
of Congress, in enacting the Federal Power Act to extend
the national control over the interstate transmission and
sale of electrical energy, which had been held to be beyond
the control of the states, the purpose was equally to preserve unimpaired the existing state power of regulation
over intrastate production and sale. The provisions of
§ 201 to which I have referred were introduced into the
legislation which became the Federal Power Act in the
course of its progress through Congress with the repeatedly
declared object of accomplishing that precise purpose.
I submit that to argue that, as Jersey Central's seveneighths' mile intrastate line which connects with the
lines of its intrastate customer, Public Service, is a facility over which flows energy which sometimes ultimately
finds its way from Public Service's system into New York,
and, hence, a facility for transmission of electric energy
interstate, ownership of which subjects the owner to the
Commission's jurisdiction, is to tie together two phrases
found in separate provisions of the Act and to ignore the
statute's provisions viewed in their integrity and entirety. By this process any desired result may readily
be reached.
I conclude that the provisions of § 203" relating to
regulation of security issues should not be considered since
'Union Dry Goods Co. v. Public Service Corp., 248 U. S. 372;
Public Utilities Commission v. Landon, 249 U. S. 236, 245; Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission, 252 U. S. 23; Missouri
v. Kansas Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298, 308; East Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax
Commission, 283 U. S. 465, 471; cf. Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost,
286 U. S. 165; Coverdale v. Pipe Line Co., 303 U. S. 604, 611.
6Itis to be noted that, even if Jersey Central were a utility within
the Act, the proviso in § 201 (a) limits the jurisdiction of the Commission under § 203 respecting the company's acquisition and disposition of facilities and issue of securities, just as it limits the Com-

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N. 85
61

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

§ 201 wholly excludes Jersey Central from -the scheme of
control established by the Act. But if this conclusion
were less obvious from the face of the Act, the legislative
history is convincing.
When a proposed bill first came before a conmittee of
the House of Representatives, the chairman of the Federal Power Commission,. its sponsor, said: I
"The new title II of the act is designed to secure
coordination on a regional scale of the Nation's power
resources and to fill the gap in the present State regulation of electric utilities. It is conceived entirely as a
supplement to, and not a substitute for, State regulation."
(Italics supplied.)
Section 201 (a) of the bill as presented granted the
Commission control of the "production" of electric energy,
and "over all facilities" for its transmission and sale in
interstate commerce, "and over all facilities connected
therewith as parts of a system of power transmission situated in more than one State....
The National Association of Railroad and Utility Commissioners, while recognizing the need of federal legislation to fill the "gap" created by decisions of this court,
urged that the bill, as introduced, would overlap and
break down state regulation and submitted amendments
designed to avoid this result.8
The spokesman for the Association said of these proposed changes:' "We have, accordingly, sought to make
it as clear as language will that Congress does not in this
case intend to regulate anything except interstate power,
sold at wholesale." With alterations of expression not
mission's authority over other phases of the business,, since these
matters are subject to regulation, and are, in fact, regulated by
New Jersey.
7Hearings on H. R. 5423 before House Committee on Interstate
and Foreign Commerce, 74th Congress, 1st Session, p. 384.
8
Hearings, supra, pp. 1620, 1622.
9
Id., p. 1638.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
ROBERTS, J.,

dissenting.

319 U. S.

affecting their sense, the proposed amendments of § 201
(a) were embodied in the section as enacted.
I need not follow in detail the changes which were made
in the bill in both branches of Congress. Suffice it to say
that they progressively emphasized the purpose to regulate only those matters which thestates could not regulate.
In reporting the revised bill to the Senate, the Committee said: 10
"Subsection (a) . . . declares the policy of Congress to
extend that regulation to those matters which cannot be
regulatedby the States and to assist the States in the exercise of their regulatory powers, but not to impair or
diminish the powers of any State tommission." (Italics
supplied.)
"Subsection (b) defines the scope of this part of the act
and the jurisdiction of the Commission. . . . This subsection leaves to the States the authority to fix local rates
even in cases where the energy is brought in from another
State. In Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission (252 U. S. 23), the Supreme Court held that such
rates may be regulated by the States in the absence of
Federal legislation. The present bill carefully refrains
from asserting Federal jurisdiction over these rates. The
rate-making powers of the Commission are confined to
those wholesale transactions which the Supreme Court
held in Public Utilities Commission v. Attleboro Steam &
Electric Co. (273 U. S.83), to be beyond the reach of the
States."
Notwithstanding the statement in the Senate Committee's report on the Senate bill that "The revision has also
removed every encroachment upon the authority of the
States," the House, not satisfied that State power had been
adequately protected, struck out the entire Senate bill
by amendment and substituted a new draft. In pre10Senate

Report No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 48.

JERSEY CENTRAL CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
61

ROBERTS,

87

J., dissenting.

senting the amended bill to the House, the Committee
reported:
"The new Parts [II and III] are designed to meet the
situation which has been created by the recent rapid
growth of electric utilities along interstate lines ...
Under the decision of the Supreme Court of the United
States in Public Utilities Commission v. Attleboro Steam
& E. Co. (273 U. S. 83), the rates charged in interstate
wholesale transactions may not be regulated by the States.
Part II gives the Federal Power Commission jurisdiction
to regulate these rates. A 'wholesale' transaction is defined to mean the sale of electric energy for resale and the
Commission is given no jurisdiction over local rates even
where the electric energy moves in interstate commerce.
"Part II gives control over security issues of interstate
operating companies in cases where no State commission
has control and over the consolidation, purchase, and sale
of interstate operating properties ...
"The bill takes no authorityfrom State commissions and
contains provisions authorizing the Federal Commission
to aid the State commissions in their efforts to ascertain
and fix reasonable charges. . . . Probably, no bill in
recent years has so recognized the responsibilitiesof State
regulatory commissions as does title II of this bill."
(Italics supplied.)
In Conference Committee § 201 (a) (b) took its present
form, which is the language of the House bill in all particulars here material. In the light of this history it is evident
the Congress specifically refrained from the regulation of
the business of any utility whose business transactions,
especially as respects transmission and sale of energy,
state authority could regulate. Such is the instant case.
Both the language of the Act and the legislative history
show that Congress did not intend to regulate matters
1' House Report No. 1318, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 7.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

319 U. S.

affecting commerce, as well as commerce itself. It is
interesting to compare, in this connection, other statutes
enacted by the same Congress. Three adopted in July
and August 1935 covered activities "affecting" commerce; 12 three, including the Federal Power Act in question, adopted in August 1935 did not cover activities
"affecting" commerce.13 Thus the legislature's discriminating use of language argues strongly for denial of the
jurisdiction the Commission asserts.
I think the judgment should be reversed.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and Ma.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

concur in this opinion.

NOBLE,

NOBLE TRANSIT CO., v.
UNITED STATES ET AL.

DOING BUSINESS AS

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 511.

Argued April 6, 7, 1943.-Decided May 3, 1943.

In a permit to operate as a contract carrier under the "grandfather"
clause of § 209 (a) of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935, it is within
the authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission-under
§ 209 (b), requiring that the Commission specify in such permit
"the business of the carrier covered thereby and the scope thereof"to specify the shippers or types of shippers for whom the carrier
may haul designated commodities. P. 91.
45 F. Supp. 793, affirmed.
12 See National Labor Relations Act, § 2 (7), 49 Stat. 449, 450, 29
U. S. C. § 152 (7); Public Utility Holding Company Act, § 1 (c),
49 Stat. 803, 804, 15 U. S. C. § 79 (c) ; Bituminous Coal Conservation
Act, § 1, 49 Stat. 991, 992.
18See Federal Power Act, § 201 (b), 49 Stat. 838, 847, 16 U. S. C.
§ 824 (b); Motor Carrier Act, § 202 (b), 49 Stat. 543, 49 U. S. C.
§ 302 (b); Federal Alcohol Administration Act, § 3, 49 Stat. 977, 978,
27 U. S. C. § 203.

