OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

atory judgment should have been denied without consideration of the merits.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES

ET AL.

v. JOHNSON.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 840. Argued May 11, 12, 1943.-Decided May 24, 1943.
Upon the facts of this case, the District Court should have granted
the Government's motion to dismiss the suit as collusive. P. 305.
48 F. Supp. 833, vacated.
APPEAL from the dismissal of a complaint in a suit in
which the United States had intervened and in which the
District Court held unconstitutional the Emergency Price
Control Act of 1942.

Mr. PaulA. Freund,with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, and Messrs.
Kenneth L. Kimble, Robert L. Wright, Richard S. Salant,
and Thomas I. Emerson were on the brief, for the United
States,
Mr. Vernon M. Welsh, with whom Mr. Weymouth
Kirkland was on the brief, for appellee.
PER CURIAM.

One Roach, a tenant of residential property belonging
to appellee, brought this suit in the district court alleging
that the property was within a "defense rental area"
established by the Price Administrator pursuant to §§ 2
(b) and 302 (d) of the Emergency Price Control Act of
1942, 56 Stat. 23; that the Administrator had promulgated
Maximum Rent Regulation No. 8 for the area; and that
the rent paid by Roach and collected by appellee was in

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
302

Opinion of the Court.

excess of the maximum fixed by the regulation. The complaint demanded judgment for treble damages and reasonable attorney's fees, as prescribed by § 205 (e) of the Act.
The United States, intervening pursuant to 28 U. S. C.
§ 401, filed a brief in support of the constitutionality of
the Act, which appellee had challenged by motion to dismiss. The district court dismissed the complaint on the
ground-as appears from its opinion (48 F. Supp. 833) and
judgment-that the Act and the promulgation of the
regulation under it were unconstitutional because Congress by the Act had unconstitutionally delegated legislative power to the Administrator.
Before entry of the order dismissing the complaint, the
Government moved to reopen the case on the ground that
it was collusive and did not involve a real case or controversy. This motion was denied. The Government brings
the case here on appeal under § 2 of the Act of August 24,
1937, 50 Stat. 752, 28 U. S. C. § 349a, and assigns as error
both the ruling of the district court on the constitutionality
of the Act, and its refusal to reopen and dismiss the case
as collusive.
The appeal of the plaintiff Roach to this Court was
also
allowed by the district court and is now pending. But
this appeal has not been docketed here because of his
neglect to comply with the Rules of this Court. As the
record is now before us on the Government's appeal, we
have directed that the two appeals be consolidated and
heard as one case. We accordingly find it unnecessary to
consider the question which we requested counsel to discuss, "whether any case or controversy exists reviewable
in this Court, in the absence of an appeal by. the party
plaintiff in the district court."
The affidavit of the plaintiff, submitted by the Govern-,
ment on its motion to dismiss the suit as collusive, shov s
without contradiction that he brought the present p.o-

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

ceeding in a fictitious name; that it was instituted as a
"friendly suit" at appellee's request; that the plaintiff did
not employ, pay, or even meet, the attorney who appeared
of record in his behalf; that he had no knowledge who
paid the $15 filing fee in the district court, but was assured by appellee that as plaintiff he would incur no expense in bringing the suit; that he did not read the complaint which was filed in his name as plaintiff; that in his
conferences with the appellee and appellee's attorney of
record, nothing was said concerning treble damages and
he had no knowledge- of the amount of the judgment
prayed until he read of it in a local newspaper.
Appellee's counter-affidavit did not deny these allegations. It admitted that appellee's attorney had undertaken to procure an attorney to represent the plaintiff and
had assured the plaintiff that his presence in court during
the trial of the cause would not be necessary. It appears
from the district court's opinion that no brief was filed on
the plaintiff's behalf in that court.
The Government does not contend that, as a result of
this coiperation of the two original parties to the litigation, any false or fictitious state of facts was submitted
to the court. But it does insist that the affidavits disclose
the absence of a genuine adversary issue between the
parties, without which a court may not safely proceed to
judgment, especially when it assumes the grave responsibility of passing upon the constitutional validity of
legislative action. Even in a litigation where only private
rights are involved, the judgment will not be allowed to
stand where one of the parties has dominated the conduct
of the suit by payment of the fees of both. Gardnerv.
Goodyear Dental Vulcanite Co., 131 U. S. Appendix,
cll.
Here an important public interest is at stake-the validity of an Act of Congress having far-reaching effects

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
302

Opinion of the Court.

on the public welfare in one of the most critical periods
in the history of the country. That interest has been adjudicated in a proceeding in which the plaintiff has had
no active participation, over which he has exercised no
control, and the expense of which he has not borne. He
has been only nominally represented by counsel who was
.selected by appellee's counsel and whom he has never
seen. Such a suit is collusive because it is not in any real
sense adversary. It does not assume the "honest and actual antagonistic assertion of rights" to be adjudicated-a
safeguard essential to the integrity of the judicial process,
and one which we have held to be indispensable to adjudication of constitutional questions by this Court. Chicago
& Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S.339, 345;
and see Lord v. Veazie, 8 How. 251; Cleveland v. Chamberlain, 1 Black 419; Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129,
134-35; Atherton Mills v.- Johnston, 259 U. S. 13, 15.
Whenever in the course of litigation such a defect in the
proceedings is brought to the court's attention, it may set
aside any adjudication thus procured and dismiss the
cause without entering judgment on the merits. It is the
court's duty to do so where, as here, the public interest has
been placed at hazard by the amenities of parties to a
suit conducted under the domination of only one of them.
The district court should have granted the Government's
motion to dismiss the suit as collusive. We accordingly
vacate the judgment below with instructions to the district court to dismiss the cause on that ground alone.
Under the statute, 28 U. S. C. § 401, the Government is
liable for costs which may be taxed as in a suit between
private litigants; costs in this Court will be taxed against
appellee.
So ordered.

