I. C. C. v. COLUMBUS & GREENVILLE RY.

551

Counsel for Parties.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION

ET AL.

v. COLUMBUS & GREENVILLE RAILWAY CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 628. Argued April 7, 8, 1943. Reargued May 13, 1943.-Decided
June 7, 1943.
One of several railroads whose lines connected at points where cottonseed was milled, and whose respective tariffs allowed "cut-backs" on
rates on inbound hauls of cottonseed the milled products of which
were hauled outbound by the same carrier that hauled in the seed
from which they were produced, filed a tariff allowing shippers the
benefit of the cut-backs on shipments outbound over its line, whether
the corresponding inbound haul was over that line or one of the
connecting lines. The Interstate Commerce Commission ordered the
tariff canceled upon the ground that, in violation of § 6 (4) of the
Interstate Commerce Act, it operated to reduce established outbound joint rates to points beyond that carrier's line without the
concurrence of participating carriers, and upon the ground that its
operation entailed violations also of §§ 1 (6) and 6 (7). Held that
the order of the Commission should not have been enjoined. P.
555.
46 F. Supp. 204, reversed.
APPEAL

from a decree of a District Court of three

judges which enjoined the enforcement of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Mr. Daniel H.
Kunkel was on the bref, for the Interstate Commerce
Commission; and Mr. John E. McCullough argued the
cause on the original argument and Mr. Elmer A. Smith
on the reargument (Messrs. Erle J. Zoll, Jr., and M. G.
Roberts were with them on the brief) for J. M. Kurn
et al.,-appellants.
Messrs. Robert C. Stovall and Forrest B. Jackson for
appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

MR.JusTicE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case is here on direct appeal from a decree of a
specially constituted District Court of three judges' enjoining the enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission cancelling certain "cut-backs" on cottonseed and its products contained in appellee's I. C. C.
Tariff No. 81.2

The appellee operates 168 miles of railway extending
east and west within the State of Mississippi. Cottonseed and its products, to which the tariff in question relates, are important items of traffic in the region, and there
are cottonseed mills at a number of points on appellee's
line. Appellee originates abbut 15 or 20 per cent of the
cottonseed milled there; trucks originate about 50 per
cent; and the balance comes to the mills on other lines
with which the appellee connects at these points, including the Illinois Central Railroad Company, the Mobile
& Ohio Railroad Company, the St. Louis-San Francisco
Railroad Company, and the Yazoo & Mississippi Valley
Railway Company.
Since 1931, these railroads and appellee have maintained a system of cut-backs originally designed, and successively revised, for the purpose of meeting the competition of truck lines. Speaking generally, the system permitted one who shipped cottonseed into the mill point and
paid the full local rate for that inbound haul to receive
back part of the amount so paid if he later shipped the
product outbound by the*same carrier. If the outbound
haul was not by the carrier that had made the inbound
haul, he was not entitled to the cut-back.
IUrgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913, 38 Stat. 208, 220, 28
U.S. C. §§ 47,47a; § 238 of the Judicial Code as amended, 28 U. S. C.
§345.

2248 L C. C. 441; 46 F. Supp. 204.

I. C. C. v. COLUMBUS & GREENVILLE RY.
551

553

Opinion of the Court.

To better its position with respect to the outbound hauls
of cottonseed originated by other lines, appellee took measures which it calls "self-help to meet competition." It
sought by its I. C. C. Tariff No. 81 to establish schedules
of payments to shippers which would give them the benefit
of the cut-backs on cottonseed and its products shipped
outbound over its line, whether the inbound haul was over
its own line or over a connecting line. This tariff was
neither protested nor suspended, and became effective October 16, 1938. After the Commission's Bureau of Traffic had criticized this tariff and requested its correction,
appellee filed its I. C. C. Tariff No. 83, differing in immaterial particulars from its Tariff No. 81. The Commission ordered No. 83 suspended and entered upon an investigation of its lawfulness.'
In its report,' Division 3 of the Commission held: The
suspended tariff was an effort to reduce the outbound joint
rates, established to points beyond appellee's line with
the concurrence of the participating carriers, without obtaining their concurrence in such reduction, and therefore
it violated § 6 (4) of the Act.' The suspended schedules
did not "lawfully name or provide any legal rates whatsoever, "P and were in violation of § 6 (7), since the con8 § 15 (7) Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 15 (7).
* '238 1. C. C. 309.
"The names of the several carriers which are parties to any joint
tariff shall be specified therein, and each of the parties thereto, other
than the one filing the same, shall file with the commission such evidence
of concurrence therein or acceptance thereof as may be required or
apptoved by the commission, and where such evidence of concurrence

or acceptance is filed it shall not be necessary for the carriers filing the
same to also file copies of the tariffs in which they are named as parties."
49 U.S. C.§ 6 (4).
a 238 I. C. C. at 315.
T

"No carrier, unless otherwise provided by this chapter, shall engage
or participate in the transportation of passengers or property, as defined
in this chapter, unless the rates, fares, and charges upon which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

templated "refund would be, essentially, a rebate, whereby
the property would be transported from the mill point to
the destination on another line at a lower rate than that
named in the joint tariff published and filed by the several
carriers participating in the movement and lawfully in
effect..

.

. Respondent's suspended tariff, granting an

alleged allowance to the shipper notwithstanding that he
performs no part of the transportation service, as the result
of which he would obtain the out-bound transportation at
less than the rates lawfully in effect would constitute an
unreasonable practice, in violation of section 1 (6)8 and
other provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act." Although not shown to be unlawful as applied to traffic originated and carried to the mills by appellee over its line,
the tariff was defective in the proposed form, and should
be cancelled.
The Commission then of its own motion entered upon an
investigation of the lawfulness of appellee's I. C. C. Tariff
No. 81, which had remained in effect as the result of the
suspension of No. 83.
same are transported by said carrier have been filed and published in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter; nor shall any carrier
charge or demand or collect or receive a greater or less or different
compensation for such transportation of passengers or property, or for
any service in connection therewith, between the points named in such
tariffs than the rates, fares, and charges which are specified in the tariff
filed and in effect at the time; nor shall any carrier refund or remit in
any manner or by any device any portion of the rates, fares, and
charges so specified, nor extend to any shipper or person any privileges
or facilities in the transportation of passengers or property, except such
as are specified in such tariffs." 49 U. S. C.§ 6 (7).
s "It is made the duty of all common carriers subject to the provisions of this chapter to establish, observe, and enforce... just and reasonable regulations and practices affecting classifications, rates, or
tariffs, . . .and every unjust and unreasonable classification, regula-

tion, and practice is prohibited and declared to be unlawful."
u.S.C.§ 1 (6).
9238 1. C.C. at 317-318.

49

I. C. C. v. COLUMBUS & GREENVILLE RY.
551

555

Opinion of the Court.

The brief and not altogether clear opinion of the full
Commission concluded with the statement that "We find
that, to the extent respondent's tariff I. C. C. No. 81 provides for refund, or cut-back, to the shipper on traffic
originated and hauled to the mill points by other rail carriers, it is unlawful in violation of section 1 (6), section 6
(4), and section 6 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act.""
From this and other statements contained in the opinion

of the full Commission it appears that the Commission
shared the views of Division 3 as to the effect of the
schedule upon the outbound joint rates and the unlawfulness of that effect. The Commission's view that the tariff
operated to reduce such outbound rates without the concurrence of the participating carriers is at least a tenable
one, and one we are not disposed to gainsay. When that
view is taken, violation of § 6 (4)11 is clear. With the impropriety of the tariff under § 6 (4) established, the Commission could reasonably conclude that its operation entailed violations also of §§ 1 (6) and 6 (7). 1
Disregard of the statutory requirements for the establishment of joint tariffs may have important substantive
consequences. The Interstate Commerce Act contemplates that joint railroad rates shall be established only by
cohcurrence of the participating carriers or by the Commission in proceedings under § 15.18 In the exercise of its
power under § 15 to fix joint rates without the concurrence
of the participating carriers, the Commission is required.by
§ 15 (4) to protect, in stated circumstances, the long hauls
of participating carriers, and to give reasonable preference
to originating carriers." The appellant railroad carriers
10248 I. C. C. at 446. For the texts of §§ 1 (6), 6 (4) and (7), see
footnotes 8,.5 and 7, supra.
"For the text, see footnote 5, supra.
12For the texts, see footnotes 8 and 7. supra.
§ 15 (3), 49 U. S. C. § 15 (3).
""In establishing any such through route the Commission shall not
(except as provided in section 3 of this title, and except where one of the
531559-44-

39

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

claim, with what foundation we do not decide, to be en-

titled to protection in both regards, and that to deny them
such protection may force the abandonment of branch
lines which Congress sought by amendment to § 15 (4) to
avoid. It is said that in recent years the Illinois Central
System has already abandoned branch lines in Mississippi
having greater mileage than the whole of appellee's line."
Division 3 found that the existing cut-back rates were."extremely low, averaging only about 8.5 percent of the firstclass rates, whereas in the general cottonseed proceeding
the Commission prescribed 18.5 percent of first class as
reasonable, and that these low cut-back rates can be justified only in consideration of the in-bound carrier's obtaining the out-bound movement." 1 The full Commission
reiterated Division 3's further finding that "Instead of
carriers is a water line) require any carrier by railroad, without its consent, to embrace in such route substantially less than the entire length
of its railroad and of any intermediate railroad operated in conjunction
and under a common management or control therewith, which lies
between the termini of tuch proposed through route, (A) unless such
inclusion of lines would make the through route unreasonably long as
compared with another practicable through route which could otherwise
be established, tor(b) unless the Commission finds that the through
route proposed to be established is needed in order to provide adequate,
and more efficient or more economic, transportation: Provided, however, That in prescribing through routes the Commission shall, so far
as is consistent with the public interest, and subject to the foregoing
limitations in clauses (a) and (b), give reasonable preference to the
carrier by railroad which originates the traffic. No through route and
joint rates applicable thereto shall be established by the Commission
for the purpose of assisting any carrier that would participate therein
to meet its financial needs. .. ." 49 U. S. C. § 15 (4).
. ".See, e. g., Abandonment of Line By Mississippi Valley Co. and
Iffinoie Central R. Co., 145 I. C. C. 289;. Abandonment of Branch Line
By Y. & M. V. R. Co., 145 I. C. C. 393; Helm and Northwestern Railroad Co. Abandonment, 170 I. C. C. 33; Gulf & Ship Island R. Co.
Abandonment, 193 I. C. C. 749; .Y. & M. V. R. Co. Abandonment, 249
I. C. C. 561; Y. & M. V. R. Co. Abandonment, 249 I. C. C. 613.
l'238 I. C. C. at 314.

I C. C. v. COLUMBUS & GREENVILLE RY.
551

557

Opinion of the Court.

placing itself on an equal basis with its competitors, respondent's present effective and suspended tariffs place it
in a more favorable position than any of them, since the
tariffs of none of them go so far as to grant a refund to the
shipper on traffic1 moving into the mill over the line of
another carrier."
Although it appears that by far the greatest part of the
outbound traffic over the appellee's line moves beyond
on the lines of connecting carriers at jointly established
rates, it appears that some traffic does reach its Ultimate
destination at points along appellee's line. It was apparently with reference to this traffic that the Ctmmis-.
sion stated that "the form and manner in which respondent's tariff is published clearly does not conform to the
requirements of section 6 (1)," 18 which provides, inter
alia, that "If no joint rate over the through route hap been
established, the several carriers in such through route
shall file, print, and keep open to public inspection . . .
the separately established rates, fares, and charges applied
to the through transportation." " The challenged tariff
provided that upon shipment outbound over appellee's
line "the freight charges . . . to the manufacturing -or
mill point will be reduced" in stated amounts, although
such charges had been made by 'other carriers in accordance with their own tariffs for transportation over their
own lines. That the Commission may hold that a Carrier
in "separately establishing" its rates for a portion -of a
through haul must not purport to alter the rates established by connecting lines, surely is a permissible construction of § 6 (1).
Whether cut-backs even as applied to previous transportation over the carrier's own lines are ever permissible
under the Act, we do not decide; and, like the Commission,
238 I. C. C. at 313; 248 I. C.C. at 445.

18

248 I. C. C. at 445.

1949 U.

C. § 6 (1).

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DouGLAs, J., concurring.

319 U. S.

we express no opinion whether the particular cut-backs
employed by appellee's competitors are valid. We simply
hold that, whatever may be the appellee's rights in appropriate proceedings, cf. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
United States, 279 U. S. 768, the appellee may not realize
upon them by means which the Commission has properly
found to be unlawful.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

concurring:

Commissioner Splawn dissented from the report of the
Commission in this case. 248 I. C. C. 441, 446-447. He
noted that respondent's tariff "in no wise affects the
amount of the rates paid for the inbound service to the
mill point," its only effect being to "reduce the outbound
rate and thus make applicable the same rate as applies
when the outbound haul is performed entirely by the
trunk lines." In his view, the outbound traffic is "free"
traffic, as that term was used in Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. United States, 279 U. S. 768. That is to say, "it
is traffic which has previously moved in on local or joint
rates to the milling point and has there come to rest."
Hence the fact that respondent is not a party to the inbound rates is "without legal significance." Commissioner Splawn concluded that the decision of the Commission violated "all principles of justness and fairness
as it precludes respondent from participating in the outbound movement or in the through movement of the
traffic from common origins on an equality of rates with
the trunk lines." The fact that no other carrier is a party
to respondent's tariff containing the cut-back provision
and that respondent absorbs the allowances out of its
proportion of the joint outbound rate was unimportant
in his view. As he stated, "The identical facts are true
of the tariffs and practice of at least one of the intervening trunk lines"-tariffs which concededly constituted

L C. C. v. COLUMBUS & GREENVILLE RY.
551

559

DOUGLAS, J., concurring.

the necessity for respondent's tariff. Moreover, as he
observed, "there can be no doubt that the provision is
lawful as to outbound traffic to points reached by respondent over its line." That traffic would seem to be
as "local" as the transit privilege which this Court held
in Central R. Co. of New Jersey v. United States, 257
U. S. 247, a carrier might establish for its individual tariff, even though there was a joint through route with joint
rates. So I would be inclined to support the judgment of
the court below in setting aside the order of the Commission at least to the extent that the court allowed the tariff to apply on outbound traffic to points on respondent's
own line.
But I am voting for a reversal of the judgment of the
court below in the view that the case should be returned
to the Commission for adequate findings.
Although there are two reports on this problem-one
by the full Commission and one by a division of the Commission-they have an obscurity and vagueness which two
full arguments before this Court have not dispelled. Commissioner Splawn complained without success of the lack
of findings under § 1 (6), § 6 (1), and § 6 (4). But if we
pass by those deficiencies and cut and sew the meager
materials at hand into the pattern which we guess the
Commission had in mind, there are still important questions left unanswered. (1) The tariffs containing the
joint outbound rates specifically authorize "privileges,
charges and rules" to be covered by separate tariffs even
though the joint or through rate is affected, provided the
carrier granting the privilege does so upon its own responsibility and at its own cost. We are not informed why
that provision does not authorize appellee's proposed tariff
at least to the extent that it applies to outbound traffic
to points on appellee's line. (2) If concurrence of the
other carriers to appellee's tariff is necessary, we are not
told why the foregoing provision of the joint tariff is not

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DoUGas, J., concurring.

319 U. S.

adequate. (3) In case that provision of the tariff covering joint rates is not applicable, there is another phase of
the problemi which is in the dark. The Commission does
not seem to deny that this traffic was "free" traffic within
the rule of Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States,
supra. It was merely concerned with the "form and manner" of the tariff. But we are not told why appellee's
tariff is not within the rule of CentralR. Co. of New Jersey
v. UnitedStates, supra,so far as the tariff specifies the rate
from milling points to destinations on appellee's line.
The rule governing the right of carriers to initiate rates has
not changed. United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P.
R. Co., 294 U. S. 499, 506.
Mr. Justice Cardozo speaking for the Court stated in
'that case, "We must know what a decision means before
the duty becomes ours to say whether it is right or wrong."
294 U. S. p. 511. That was said about another obscure
and vague report of the Interstate Commerce Commission. We should say the same thing about the present
report. The questions left unanswered by this report may
be simple ones to experts. But we should have those
answers before we put the imprimatur of this Court on the
Commission's order.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, and MR.
JUSTICE RUTLEGE join in this opinion.

