DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
141

157

Syllabus.

Changing conditions have begotten modification by law
of many practices once deemed a part of the individual's
liberty.
The First Amendment does notcompMa pedestrian
to pause on the street to listen to the argument supporting another's views of religion or politics. Once the door
is opened, the visitor may not insert a foot and insist on
a hearing. He certainly may not enter the home. To
knock or ring, however, comes close to such invasions.
To prohibit such a call leaves open distribution of the
notice on the street or at the home without signal to announce its deposit. Such assurance of privacy falls far
short of an abridgment of freedom of the press. The
ordinance seems a fair adjustment of the privilege of distributors and the rights of householders.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join

in this dissent.
See also opinion of MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, po8t, p. 166.

DOUGLAS

ET AL.

v. CITY OF JEANNETTE ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF AIPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT..

No. 450. Argued March 10, 11, 1943.-Decided May 3, 1943.
1. Members of Jehovah's Witnesses, in their own behalf and in behalf
of all other Jehovah's Witnesses in the State and in adjoining States,
broughtsuit in a federal District Court to restrain a city and its
mayor from enforcing against them an ordinance prohibiting the
solicitation of orders for merchandise without first procuring a
license from the city authorities and paying a license tax. The complaint, prayihg equitable relief, alleged, in substance, that the
defendants, by arrest, detention and criminal prosecution of the complainants and other Jehovah's Witnesses, had subjected them to
deprivation of their rights of freedom of speech, press and religion;
and that the defendants threaten to continue to enforce the ordinance
by arrests and prosecutions.. The suit was not based nor maintainable
on the ground of diversity of citizenship, but was alleged to arise

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

319 U. S.

under the Constitution and laws of the United States, including
the Civil Rights Act of 1871. Held:
(1) The suit was within the jurisdiction of the District Court
under 28 U. S. C. § 41 (14) irrespective of the amount in controversy.
P. 161.
(2) The federal District Court in the exercise of 'its discretion
should have refused to enjoin the threatened criminal prosecutions
in the state courts'" P. 165.
2. The guaranties of'tlib Fis.t Amendnent are protected by the Fourteenth Amendment against encroachment by the States. P. 162.
3. Allegations of fact sufficient to show deprivation of the right of free
speech under the First Amendment are sufficient to establish deprivation of a constitutional right guaranteed by the Fourteenth, and to
state a cause of action under the Civil Rights Act, whenever it appears that the abridgment of the right is effected under color of a
state statute or ordinance. P. 162.
4. Though a federal court have power as such to decide the cause, it
should raise sua sponte the question of want of equity jurisdiction
where its powers are invoked to interfere by injunction with threatened criminal prosecutions in a state court. P. 162.
5. It is the policy of Congress generally to leave to the state courts the
trial of criminal cases arising under state laws, subject to review
by this Court of any federal questions involved, and the federal
courts should conform to this policy by refusing to interfere with
or embarrass threatened pioceedings in state courts save in those
exceptional cases which call for the interposition of a court of equity
to prevent irreparable injury which is clear and imminent; and
equitable remedies infringing this independence of the States--.
though they might otherwise be given-should be withheld if sought
on slight or inconsequential grounds. P. 163.
6. It does not appear from the record that petitioners have been
threatened with any injury other than that incidental to any criminal
prosecution brought lawfully and in good faith; or that a federal
court of equity could rightly afford petitioners any protection which
they could not secure by prompt trial in the state courts and appeal
pursued to this Court; or that, in view of the decision in Murdock v.
Pennsylvania, ante, p. 105, there is ground for supposing that, in
order to secure for the future the complainants' constitutional rights,
the intervention of a federal court will be either necessary or
appropriate. P. 164.
130 F. 2d 652, affirmed.

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 749, to review the reversal of a
decree, 39 F. Supp. 32, enjoining the enforcement against
petitioners of a municipal ordinance.

Mr. Hayden C. Covington for petitioners.
Mr. FredB. Trescher for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioners brought this suit in the United States District Court for Western Pennsylvania to restrain threatened criminal prosecution of them in the state courts by
respondents, the City of Jeannette (a Pennsylvania municipal corporation) and its Mayor, for violation of a city
ordinance which prohibits the solicitation of orders for
merchandise without first procuring a license from the city'
authorities and paying a license tax. The ordinance as
applied is held to be an unconstitutional abridgment of
free speech, press and religion in Murdock v. Pennsylvania, ante, p. 105. The questions decisive of the present
case are whether the district court has statutory jurisdiction as a federal court to entertain the suit, and whether
petitioners have by their pleadings and proof established
a cause of action in equity.
The case is not one of diversity of citizenship, -since
some of the petitioners, like respondents, are citizens of
Pennsylvania. The bill of complaint alleges that the
named plaintiffs are Jehovah's Witnesses, persons who
entertain religious beliefs and engage in religious practices which it describes; that the suit is a class suit
brought in petitioners' own behalf and in behalf of all
other Jehovah's Witnesses in Pennsylvania and adjoining
states to restrain respondents from -enforcing ordinance
No. 60 of the City of Jeannette against petitioners and all
other Jehovah's Witnesses because, as applied to them,
the ordinance abridges the guaranties of freedom of
speech, press, and religion of the First Amendment made
applicable to the states by the Fourteenth.

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

The suit is alleged to arise under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, including the Civil Rights Act
of 1871. The complaint sets up that in the practice of
their religion and in conformity to the teachings of the
Bible, Jehovah's Witnesses make, and for many years
have made, house to house distribution, among the people
of the City of Jeannette, of certain printed books and
pamphlets setting forth the. Jehovah's Witnesses' interpretations of the teachings of the Bible. Municipal Ordinance No. 60 provides: "That all persons canvassing for
or soliciting within said Borough (now City of Jeannette),
orders for goods

. ..

wares or merchandise of any

kind, or persons delivering such articles under orders so
obtained or solicited" without first procuring a license and
paying prescribed license taxes, shall be punished by fine
not exceeding $100 and costs, or if the fine is not paid, by
imprisonment from five to thirty days. It is alleged that
in April, 1939, respondents arrested and prosecuted petitioners and other Jehovah's Witnesses for violation of the
ordinance because of their described activities in distributing religious literature, without the permits required by
the ordinance, and that respondents threaten to continue
to enforce the ordinance by arrests, and prosecutionsall in violation of petitioners' civil rights.
No preliminary or interlocutory injunction was granted
but the district court, after a trial, held the ordinance invalid, 39 F. Supp. 32, on the authority of Reid v. Borough
of Brookville, 39 F. Supp. 30, in that it deprived petitioners of the rights of freedom of press. and religion guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth Amendments. The
court enjoined respondents from enforcing the ordinance
against petitioners and other Jehovah's Witnesses.
The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit sustained
the jurisdiction of the district court, but reversed on the
merits, 130 F. 2d 652, on the authority of Jones v. Opelika, 316 U. S. 584. One judge dissented on the ground
that the complaint did not sufficiently allege, a violation

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of the Court.

of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
so as to entitle petitioners to relief under the Civil Rights
Act. We granted certiorari, 318 U. S. 749, and set the case
for argument with Murdock v. Pennsylvania,supra.
We think it plain that the district court had jurisdiction
as a federal court to hear and decide the question of the
constitutional validity of the ordinance, although there
was no allegation or proof that the matter in controversy
exceeded $3,000. By 8 U. S. C. § 43 (derived from § 1
of the Civil Rights Act of April 20, 1871, 17 Stat. 13,
continued without substantial change as R. S. § 1979)
it is provided that "every person who, under color of any
statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any
State or Territory, subjects, or causes to be subjected,
any citizen of the United States or other person within the
jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws,
shall be liable to the party injured in an action at law, suit
in equity, or other proper proceeding for redress."
As we held in Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496, 507-14,
527-32, the district courts of the United States are given
jurisdiction by 28 U. S. C. §41 (14) over suits brought
under the Civil Rights Act without the allegation or proof
of any jurisdictional amount. Not only do petitioners
allege that the present suit was brought under the Civil
Rights Act, but their allegations plainly set out an infringement of its provisions. In substance, the complaint
alleges that respondents, proceeding under the challenged
ordinance, by arrest, detention and by criminal prosecutions of petitioners and other Jehovah's Witnesses, had
subjected them to deprivation of their rights of freedom
of speech, press and religion secured by the Constitution,
and the complaint seeks equitable relief from such deprivation in the future.
The particular provision of the Constitution on which
petitioners rely is the Due Process Clause of the Four-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

teenth Amendment, violation of which the dissenting
judge below thought was not sufficiently alleged to establish a basis for relief under the Civil Rights Act. But
we think this overlooks the special relationship of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the rights of freedom of speech,
press, and religion guaranteed by the First. We have repeatedly held that the Fourteenth Amendment has made
applicable to the states the guaranties of the First.
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 160, n. 8 and cases cited;
Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S. 413. Allegations of fact sufficient to show deprivation of the right of free speech under
the First Amendment are sufficient to establish deprivation of a constitutional right guaranteed by the Fourteenth, and to state a cause of action under the Civil
Rights Act, whenever it appears that the abridgment of
the right is effected under color of a state statute or ordinance. It follows that the bill, which amply alleges the
facts relied on to show the abridgment by criminal proceedings under the ordinance, sets out a case or controversy which is within the adjudicatory power of the
district court.
Notwithstanding the authority of the district court, as
a federal court, to hear and dispose of the case, petitioners
are entitled to the relief prayed only if they establish
a cause of action in equity. Want of equity jurisdiction,
while not going to the power of the court to decide the
cause, Di Giovanni v. Camden Ins. Assn., 296 U. S. 64, 69;
Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176, 181-82, may
nevertheless, in the discretion of the court, be objected to
on its own motion. Twist v. PrairieOil Co., 274 U. S. 684,
690; Pennsylvania v. Williams, supra, 185. Especially
should it do so where its powers are invoked to interfere
by injunction with threatened criminal prosecutions in
a state court.
The power reserved to the states under the Constitution to provide for the determination of controversies in

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of the Court.

their courts may be restricted by federal district courts
only in obedience to Congressional legislation in conformity to the judiciary Article of the Constitutibn. Congress, by its legislation, has adopted the policy, with certain well defined statutory exceptions, of leaving generally
to the state courts the trial of criminal cases arising under
state laws, subject to review by this Court of any federal
questions involved. Hence, courts of equity in the exercise of their discretionary powers should conform to this
policy by refusing to interfere with or embarrass threatened proceedings'in state courts save in those exceptional
cases which call for the interposition of a court of equity
to prevent irreparable injury which is clear and imminent;
and equitable remedies infringing this independence of
the states-though they might otherwise be givenshould be withheld if sought on slight or inconsequential
grounds. Di Giovanni v. Camden Ins. Assn., supra, 73;
Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521, 525-26; cf. United
States ex rel. Kennedy v. Tyler, 269 U. S. 13; Massachusetts State Grange v. Benton, 272 U. S. 525.
It is a familiar rule that courts of equity do not ordi-

narily restrain criminal prosecutions. No person is immune from prosecution in good faith for his alleged criminal acts. Its imminence, even though alleged to be in
violation of constitutional guaranties, is not a ground
for equity relief since the lawfulness or constitutionality
of the statute or ordinance on which the prosecution is
based may be determined as readily in the criminal case as
in a suit for an injunction. Davis & Farnum Mfg. Co. v.
Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207; Fenner v. Boykin, 271 U. S.
240. Where the threatened prosecution is by state officers for alleged violations of a state law, the state courts
are the final arbiters of its meaning and application, subject only to review by this Court on federal grounds appropriately asserted. Hence th6 arrest by the federal
courts of the processes of the criminal law within the

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

states, and the determination of questions of criminal
liability under state law by a federal court of equity, are
to be supported only on a showing of danger of irreparable injury "both great and immediate." Spielman Motor Co. v. Dodge, 295 U. S. 89, 95, and cases cited; Beal v.
Missouri Pacific R. Corp., 312 U. S. 45, 49, and cases
cited; Wation v. Buck, 313 U. S. 387; Williams v. Miller,
317 U. S. 599.
The trial court found that respondents had prosecuted
certain of petitioners and other Jehovah's Witnesses for
distributing the literature described in the complaint
without having obtained the license required by the ordinance, and had declared their intention further to enforce
the ordinance against petitioners and other Jehovah's
Witnesses. But the court made no finding of threatened
irreparable injury to petitioners or others, and we cannot
say that the declared intention to institute other prosecutions is sufficient to establish irreparable injury in the
circumstances of this case.
Before the present suit was begun, convictions had been
obtained in the state courts in cases Nos. 480-487, Murdock et al. v. Pennsylvania,supra, which were then pending on appeal and which were brought to this Court for
review by certiorari entemporaneously with the present
case. It does not appear from the record that petitioners
have been threatened with any injury other than that incidental to every criminal proceeding brought lawfully
and in good faith, or that a federal court of equity by
withdrawing the determination of guilt from the state
courts could rightly afford petitioners any protection
which they could not secure by prompt trial and appeal
pursued to this Court. In these respects the case differs
from Hague v. C. 1. 0., supra,501-02, where local officials
forcibly broke up meetings of the complainants and in
many instances forcibly deported them from the state
without trial.

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of the Court.

There is no allegation here and no proof that respondents would not, nor can we assume that they will not, acquiesce in the decision of this Court holding the challenged ordinance unconstitutional as applied to petitioners. If the ordinance had been held constitutional,
petitioners could not complain of penalties which would
have been but the consequence of their violation of a valid
state law.
Nor is it enough to justify the exercise of the equity
jurisdiction in the circumstances of this case that there
are numerous members of a class threatened with prosecution for violation of the ordinance. In general the jurisdiction of equity to avoid multiplicity of civil suits at
law is restricted to those cases where there would otherwise be some necessity for the maintenance of numerous
suits between the same parties involving the same issues
of law or fact. It does not ordinarily extend to cases
where there are numerous parties and the issues between
them and the adverse party-here the state---are not necessarily identical. Matthews v. Rodgers, supra, 529-30,
and cases cited. Far less should a federal court of equity
attempt to envisage in advance all the diverse issues
which could engage the attention of state courts in prosecutions of Jehovah's Witnesses for violations of the present ordinance, or assume to draw to a federal -court the
determination of those issues in advance, by a decree saying in what circumstances and conditions the application
of the city ordinance will be deemed to abridge freedom
of speech and religion.
In any event, an injuction looks to the future. Texas
Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466, 474; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 283 U. S. 163, 182. And in view of the decision rendered today in Murdock V. Pennsylvania,supra,
we find no ground for supposing that the intervention of
a federal court, in order to secure petitioners' constitutional rights, will be either necessary or appropriate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of

JACKSON, J.

319 U. S.

For these reasons, establishing the want of equity in
the cause, we affirm the judgment of the circuit court of
appeals directing that the bill be dismissed.
Affirmed.
MRA.JUSTICE JACKSON, concurring in the result in this
case and dissenting in Nos. 480-487, Murdock v. Pennsylvania, ante, p. 105, and No. 238, Martin v. Struthers,
ante, p. 141:
Except the case of Douglas et al. v. Jeannette, all of
these cases are decided upon the record of isolated prosecutions in which information is confined to a particular
act of offense and to the behavior of an individual offender.
Only the Douglas record gives a comprehensive story of
the broad plan of campaign employed by Jehovah's Witnesses and its full impact on a living community. But the
facts of this case are passed over as irrelevant to the
theory on which the Court.would decide its particular
issue. Unless we are to reach judgments as did Plato's
men who were chained in a cave so that they saw nothing
but shadows, we should consider the facts of the Douglas
case at least as an hypothesis to test the validity of the
conclusions in the other cases. This record shows us something of the strings as well as the marionettes. It reveals
the problem of those in local authority when the right
to proselyte comes in contact with what many people
have an idea is their right to be let alone. The Chief Justice says for the Court in Douglas that "in view of the
decision rendered today in Murdock v. Pennsylvania,
supra, we find no ground for supposing that the intervention of a federal court, in order to secute petitioners' constitutional rights, will be either necessary or appropriate,"
which could hardly be said if the constitutional issues
presented by the facts of this case are not settled by the
Murdock case. The facts of record in the Douglas case
and their relation to the facts of the other cases seem to

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion

of JACKsON, J.

me worth recital and consideration if we are realistically
to weigh the conflicting claims of rights in the related cases
today decided.
From the record in Douglas we learn:
In 1939, a "Watch Tower Campaign" was instituted
by Jehovah's Witnesses in Jeannette, Pennsylvania, an industrial city of some 16,000 inhabitants.' Each home was
visited, a bell was rung or the door knocked upon, and
the householder advised that the Witness had important
information. If the householder would listen, a record was
played on the phonograph. Its subject was "Snare and
Racket." The following words are representative of its
contents: "Religion is wrong and a snare because it deceives the people, but that does not mean that all who
follow religion are willingly bad. Religion is a racket
because it has long been used and is still used to extract
money from the people upon the theory and promise that
the paying over of money to a priest will serve to relieve
the party paying from punishment after death and further insure his salvation." This line of attack is taken
by the Witnesses generally upon all denominations, especially the Roman Catholic. The householder was asked to
buy a variety of literature for a price or contribution. The
'Sixteenth Annual Census of the United States (1940), Population,
Volumie I (Census-Bureau of the United States Department of Commerce) p. 922. The City of Jeannette is included in Westmoreland
County, shown by the 1940 Census to have a population of 303,411,
an increase over 1930 and 1920. Ibid. The 1936 Census of Religious
Bodies shows that of the people in Westmoreland County 168,608
were affiliated with some religious body, 80,276 of them with the Roman
Catholic Church. Census of Religious Bodies (1936), Volume I (Census Bureau of the United States Department of Commerce) pp. 809-.
814. According to unpublished information in the files of the Census
Bureau, the 1936 Census of Religious Bodies shows that there were
in the City of Jeannette 5,520 Roman Catholics. Thus it appears
that the percentage of Catholics in the City is somewhat higher than

in the County as a whole.

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of

JACKSON,

J.

319 U. S.

price would be twenty-five cents for the books and smaller
sums for the pamphlets. Oftentimes, if he was unwilling
io purchase, the book or pamphlet was given to him
anyway.
When this campaign began, many complaints from offended householders were received, and three or four of
the Witnesses 'were arrested. Thereafter, the "zone seryant" in charge of the campaign conferred with the Mayor.
He told the Mayor it was their right to carry on the campaign and showed him a decision of the United States
Supreme Court, said to have that effecet. as proof of it.
The Mayor told him that they were at liberty to distribute
their-literature in the streets of the city and that he would
have no objection if they distributed -the literature free
of charge at the houses, but that the people objected to
their attempt to force these sales, and particularly on Sunday. The Mayor asked whether it would not be possible
to come on some other day and to distribute the literature
without selling it. The zone servant replied that that was
contrary to their method of "doing business" and refused,
He also told the Mayor that he would bring enough Witnesses into the City of Jeannette to get the job done
whether the Mayor liked it or not. The Mayor urged
them to await the outcome of an appeal which was then
pending in the other cases and let the matter take its course
through the courts. This, too, was refused, and the threat
to bring more people than the Mayor's police force could
cope with was repeated.
On Palm Sunday of 1939, the threat was made good.
Over 100 of the Witnesses appeared. They were strangers
to the city and arrived in upwards of. twenty-five automobiles. : The automobiles were parked outside the city
limits, and headquarters were set up in a gasoline station
with telephone facilities through which the director of the
campaign could be notified when trouble occurred. He
furnished bonds for the Witnesses as they were arrested.

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of

169.

JACKSON, J.

As they began their work, around 9:00 o'clock in the morning, telephone calls began to come in to the Police Headquarters, and complaints in large volume were made all
during the day. They exceeded the number that the police could handle, and the Fire Department was called out
to assist. The Witnesses called at homes singly and in
groups, and some of the homes complained that they were
called upon several times. Twenty-one Witnesses were
arrested. Only those were arrested where definite proof
was obtainable that the literature had been offered for
sale or a sale had been made for a price. Three were later
discharged for inadequacies in this proof, and eighteen
were convicted. The zone servant furnished appeal
bonds.
Theinational structure of the.Jehovah'sWitness movement is also somewhat revealed in this testimony. At the
head of the movement in this country is the WatchTower
Bible & Tract Society, a corporation organized under the
laws of Pennsylvania, but having its principal place of
business in Brooklyn, N. Y. It prints all pamphlets,
manufactures all books, supplies all phonographs and rec-'
ords, and provides other materials for the Witnesses. It
"ordains" these Witnesses by furnishing each, on a basis
which does not clearly appear, a certificate that he is a
minister of the Gospel. Its output is large and its revenues *must be considerable. Little is revealed of its
affairs. One of its "zone servants" testified that its correspondence is signed only with the name of the corporation
and anonymity as to its personnel is its policy. The assumption that it is a "non-profit charitable" corporation
may be true, but it is without support beyond mere
assertion. In none of these cases has the assertion been
supported by such usual evidence as a balance sheet or an
income statement. What its manufacturing costs and
revenues are, what salaries or bonuses it pays, what contracts it has for supplies or services we simply do not

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of JACKSON, J.

319 U. S.

know. The effort of counsel for Jeannette to obtain information, books and records of the local "companies" of
Witnesses engaged in the Jeannette campaign in the trial
was met by contradictory statements as to the methods
and meaning of such meager accounts as were produced.
The publishing output of the Watch Tower corporation
is disposed of through converts, some of whom are fulltime and some part-time ministers. These are organized
into groups or companies under the direction of "zone
servants." It is their purpose to carry on in a thorough
manner so that every home in the communities in which
they work may be regularly visited three or-.four times a
year. The full-time Witnesses acquire their literature
from the Watch Tower Bible & Tract Society at a figure
which enables' them to distribute it at the prices printed
thereon with a substantial differential. Some of the books
they acquire for 5¢ and dispose of for a contribution of
25 . On others, the margin is less. Part-time ministers
have a differential between the 200 which they remit to
the Watch Tower Society and the 250 which is the contribution they ask for the books. We are told that many
of the Witnesses give away a substantial quantity of the
literature to people who make no contributions. Apart
from the fact that this differential exists and that it
enables the distributors to meet in whole or in part their
living expenses, it has proven impossible in these cases
to learn the exact results of the campaigns from a financial
point of view. There is evidence that the group accumulated a substantial amount from the differentials, but the
tracing of the money was not possible because of the failure tO obtain records and the failure, apparently, to keep
them.
The literature thus distributed is voluminous and repetitious. Characterization is risky, but a few quotations
will indicate something of its temper.
Taking as representative the book "Enemies," of which
J. F. Rutherford, the lawyer who long headed this group,

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of

JAcxsoN,

J.

is the author, we find the following: "The greatest racket
ever invented and practiced is that of religion. The most
cruel and seductive public enemy is that which employs
religion to carry on the racket, and by which means the
people are deceived and the name of Almighty God is
reproached. There are numerous systems of religion, but
the most subtle, fraudulent and injurious to humankind is
that which is generally labeled the 'Christian religion,'
because it has the appearance of a worshipful devotion
to the Supreme Being, and thereby easily misleads many
honest and sincere persons." Id. at 144-145. It analyzes
the income of the Roman Catholic hierarchy and announces that it is "the great racket, a racket that is greater
than all other rackets combined." Id. at 178. It also
says under the chapter heading "Song of the Harlot,"
"Referring now to the foregoing Scriptural definition of
harlot: What religious system exactly fits the prophecies
recorded in God's Word? There is but one answer, and
that is, The Roman Catholic Church organization." Id.
at 204-205. "Those close or nearby and dependent upon
the main organization- being of the same stripe, picture
the Jewish and Protestant clergy and other allies of the
Hierarchy who tag along behind the Hierarchy at the
present time to do the bidding of the old 'whore'." Id. at
222. "Says the prophet of Jehovah: 'It shall come to
pass in that day, that Tyre (modern Tyre, the Roman
Catholic Hierarchy organization) shall be forgotten.'
Forgotten by whom? By her former illicit paramours who
have committed fornication with her." 1d. at 264.
Throughout the literature, statements of this kind appear
amidst scriptural comment and prophecy, denunciation
of demonology, which is used to characterize the Roman
Catholic religion, criticism. of government and those in
authority, advocacy of obedience to the law of God instead
of the law of man, and an interpretation of the law of
God as they see it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of

JACKSON, J.

319 U. S.

The spirit and temper of this campaign is most fairly
stated perhaps in the words, again of Rutherford, in his
book "Religion," pp. 196-198:
"God's faithful servants go from house to house to bring
the message of the kingdom to those who reside there,
omitting none, not even the houses of the Roman Catholic Hierarchy, and there they give witness to the kingdom because they are commanded by the Most High to do
so. 'They shall enter in at the windows like a thief.'
They do not loot nor break into the houses, but they set
up their phonographs before the doors and windows and
send the message of the kingdom right into the houses
into the ears of those who might wish to hear; and while
those desiring to hear are hearing, some of the 'sourpusses' are compelled to hear. Locusts invade the homes
of the people and even eat the varnish off the wood and
eat the wood .to some extent. Likewise God's faithful
witnesses, likened unto locusts, get the kingdom message
right into the house and they take the veneer off the
religious things that are in that house, including candles
and 'holy water', remove the superstition from the
minds of the people, and show them that the doctrines
that have been taught to them are wvood, hay and stubble,
destructible by fire, and they cannot withstand the heat.
The people are enabled to learn that 'purgatory' is a bogeyman, set up by the agents of Satan to frighten the
people into the religious organizations, where they may be
fleeced of their hard-earned money. Thus the kingdom
message plagues the religionists, anti the clergy find that
they are unable to prevent it. Therefore, as described by
the prophet, the message comes to them like a thief that
enters in at the windows, and this message is a warning
to those who are on the inside that Jesus Christ has come,
and they remember his warning words, to wit: 'Behold,
i come as a thief.' (Revelation 16: 15.) The day of

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of

JACKSON, J.

Armageddon is very close, and that day comes upon the
world in general like a thief in the night."
The day of Armageddon, to which all of this is prelude,
is to be a violent and bloody one, for then shall be slain
all "demonologists," including most of those who reject
the teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses.
In the Murdock case, on another Sunday morning of
the following Lent, we again find the Witnesses in Jeannette, travelling by twos and threes and carrying cases for
the books and phonographs. This time eight were arrested, as against the 21 arrested on the preceding Palm
Sunday involved in the Douglascase.
In the Struthers case, we find the Witness knocking on
.the door of a total stranger at 4:00 on Sunday afternoon,
July 7th. The householder's fourteen year old son answered, and, at the Witness's request, called his mother
from the- kitchen. His mother had previously become
"very much disgusted about going to the door" to receive
leaflets, particularly since another person had on a previous occasion called her to the door and told her, as she
testified, "that I was doomed to go to hell because I would
not let this literature in my home for my children to
read." She testified that the Witness "shoved in the
door" the circular being distributed, - and that she
2

This reads as follows:

"RELIGION as a WORLD REMEDY, The Evidence in Support Thereof.
Hear JUDGE RUTHERFORD, Sunday, July 28, 4 P. M., E. S. T. FREE,
All Persons of Goodwill Welcome, FREE. Columbus Coliseum, Ohio
State Fair Grounds." [On one side.]
"1940's Event of Paramount Importance To You! What is it?
The THEOCRATIC CONVENTION of JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES. Five
Days-July 24-28-Thirty Cities. All Lovers of RighteousnessWelcome! The strange fate threatening all 'Christendom' makes it
imperative that YOU COME and HEAR the public address on RELIGION
As A WORLD REMEDY, The Evidence in Support Thereof, by Judge
Rutherford at the COLISEUM of the OHIO STATE FAIR GROUNDS, Co-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of

JACKSON, J.

319 U. S.

"couldn't do much more than take" it, and she promptly
tore it up in the presence of the Witness, for while she believed "in the worship of God," she did not "care to talk
to everybody" and did not "believe that anyone needs to
be sent from door to door to tell us how to worship."
Therecord in the Strutheri case is even more sparse than
that in the Murdock case, but the householder did testify
that at the time she was given the circular the Witness
"told me that a number of them were in jail and would
I call the Chief of Police and ask that their workers might
be released."
Such is the activity which it is claimed no public authority can either regulate or tax. This claim is substantially, if not quite, sustained today. I dissent--a disagreement induced in no small part by the facts recited.
As individuals many of us would not find this activity
seriously objectionable. The subject of the disputes involved may be a matter of ijidifference to our personal
creeds. Moreover, we work in offices affording ample
shelter from such importunities and live in homes where
we do not personally answer such calls and bear the burden of turning away the unwelcome. But these observations do not hold true for all. The stubborn persistence
of the officials of smaller communities in their efforts to
regulate this conduct indicates a strongly held conviction
that the Court's many decisions in this field are at odds
with the realities of life in those communities where the
householder himself drops whatever he may be doing to
lumbus, Ohio, Sunday, July 28, at 4 p. m., E. S. T. 'He that hath an
ear to hear' will come to one of the auditoriums of the convention
cities listed below, tied in with Columbus by direct wire. Some of
the 30 cities are ...[21 are listed]. For detailed information concerning these conventions write WATCHTOWER CONVENTION COMMITTEE,
117 Adams St., Brooklyn, N. Y." [On the other side.]

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of

JACKSON,

J.

answer the summons to the door and is apt to have positive religious convictions of his own.8
Three subjects discussed in the opinions in Murdock v.
Pennsylvania and Martin v. Struthers tend to obscure
the effect of the decisions. The first of these relates to the
form of the ordinances in question. One cannot determine whether this is mere makeweight or whether it is an
argument addressed to the constitutionality of the ordinances; and whatever it is, I cannot reconcile the treatment of the subject by the two opinions. In Murdock
the Court says "the present ordinance is not narrowly
drawn to safeguard the people of the community in their
homes against the evils of solicitations," and again "the
ordinance is not narrowly drawn to prevent or control
abuses or evils arising from" solicitation from house to
house. It follows the recent tendency to invalidate
ordinances in this general field that are not "narrowly
drawn."
But in Struthers the ordinance is certainly narrowly
drawn. Yet the Court denies the householder the narrow protection it gives. The city points out that this ordinance was narrowly drawn to meet a particular evil in
that community where many men must work nights and
rest by day. I had supposed that our question, except
in respect to ordinances invalid on their face, is always
whether the ordinance as applied denies constitutional
rights. Nothing in the Constitution says or implies that
real rights are more vulnerable to a narrow ordinance
Compare Chafee, Freedom of Speech in the United States (1941)
p. 407: "I cannot help wondering whether the Justices of the Supreme Court are quite aware of the effect of organized front-door
intrusions upon people who are not sheltered from zealots and impostors by a staff of servants or the locked entrance of an apartment house."

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of

JACKSON, J.

319 U. S.

than to a broad one. I think our function is to take municipal ordinances as they are construed by the state

courts and applied by local authorities and to decide their
constitutionality accordingly, rather than to undertake
censoring their draftsmanship.
Secondly, in neither opinion does the Court give clearcut consideration to the particular activities claimed to
be entitled to constitutional immunity, but in one case
blends with them conduct of others not in question, and
in the other confuses with the rights in question here certain alleged rights of others which these petitioners are
in no position to assert as their own.
In the Murdock case, the Court decides to "restore to
their high, constitutional position the liberties of itinerant
evangelists." That it does without stating what those
privileges are, beyond declaring that "This form of religious activity occupies the same high estate under the
First Amendment as do worship in the churches and
preaching from the pulpits." How can we dispose of the
questions in this case merely by citing the unquestioned
right to minister to congregations voluntarily attending
services?
Similarly, in the Struthers case the Court fails to deal
with the behavior of the Witnesses on its own merits. It
reaches its decision by weighing against the ordinance
there in question not only the rights of the Witness but
also "the right of the individual householder to determine
whether he is willing to receive her message"; concludes
that the ordinance "substitutes the judgment of the community for the judgment of the individual householder";
and decides the case on the basis that "it submits the distributer to criminal punishment for annoying the person
on whom he calls, even though the recipient of the literature distributed is in fact glad to receive it." But the
hospitable householder thus thrown in the balance with
the Witness to make weight against the city ordinance is
wholly hypothetical and the assumption is contrary to

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of

JACKSON, J.

the evidence we have recited. Doubtless there exist fellow spirits who welcome these callers, but the issue here
is what are the rights ofthose who do not and what is the
right of the community to protect them in the exercise
of.their own faith in peace. That issue-the real issueseems not to be dealt with.
Third, both opinions suggest that there are evils in this
conduct that a municipality may do something about.
But neither identifies it, nor lays down any workable
guide in so doing. In Murdock the Court says that "the
ordinance is not narrowly drawn to prevent or control
abuses or evils arising" from house-to-house solicitation.
What evils or abuses? It is also said in Murdock that
we "have something very different from a registration
system under which those going from house to house are
required to give their names, addresses and other marks
of identification to the authorities." What more? The
fee of course. But we are told the fee is not "a nominal fee
imposed as a regulatory measure to defray the expenses
of policing the activities in question." Is it implied
that such a registration for such a fee would be valid?
Wherein does the suggestion differ from the ordinance
we are striking down? This ordinance did nothing more,
it did not give discretion to refuse the license nor to censor the literature. The fee ranged from $1.50 a day for
one day to less than a dollar a day for two weeks. There
is not a syllable of evidence that this amount exceeds the
cost to the community of policing this activity. If this
suggestion A new devices is not illusory, why is the present ordinance invalid? The City of Struthers decided
merely that one with no more business at a home than the
delivery of advertising matter should not obtrude himself farther by announcing the fact of delivery. He was
free to make the distribution if he left the householder
undisturbed, to take it in in his own time. The Court
says the City has not even this much leeway in ordering

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of JAcKsoN, J.

319 U. S.

its affairs, however complicated they may be as the result of, round-the-clock industrial activity. If the local
authorities must draw closer aim at evils than they did
in these cases I doubt that they ever can hit them. What
narrow area of regulation exists under these decisions?
The Struthers opinion says, "the dangers of distribution
can so easily be controlled by traditional legal methods."
It suggests that the City may "by identification devices
control the abuse of the privilege by criminals posing as
canvassers." Of course to require registration and license
is one of the few practical "identification devices."
Merely giving one's name and his address to the authorities would afford them basis for investigating who the
strange callers are and what their record has been. And
that is what Murdock prohibits the city from asking. If
the entire course of concerted conduct revealed to us is
immune, I should think it neither fair nor wise to throw
,out to the cities encouragement to try new restraints. If
some part of it passes the boundary of immunity, I think
we should say what part and why in these cases we are
denying the right to regulate it. The suggestion in
Struthers that "the problem must be worked out by each
community for itself" is somewhat ironical in view of the
fate of the ordinances here involved.
Our difference of opinion cannot fairly be given the color
of a disagreement as to whether the constitutional rights
of Jehovah's Witnesses should be protected in so far as*
they are rights. These Witnesses, in common with all
others, have extensive rights to proselyte and propagandize. These of course include the right to oppose and
criticize the Roman Catholic Church or any other denomination. These rights are, and should be held to be, as
extensive as any orderly society can tolerate in religious
disputation. The real question is where their rights end
and the rights of others begin. The real task of determining the extent of their rights on balance with the rights

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of JAcxsoN, J.

of others is not met by pronouncement of general propositions with which there is no disagreement.
If we should strip these cases to the underlying
questions, I find them too difficult as constitutional
problems to be disposed of. by a vague but fervent
transcendentalism.
In my view,,the First Amendment assures the broadest
tolerable exercise of free speech, free press, and free assembly, not merely for religious purposes, but for political,
economic, scientific, news, or informational ends as well.
When limits are reached which such communications must
observe, can one go farther under the cloak of religious
evangelism? Does what is obscene, or commercial, or
abusive, or inciting become less so if employed to promote
a religious ideology? I had not supposed that the rights
of secular and non-religious communications were more
narrow or in any way inferior to those of avowed religious
groups.
It may be asked why then does the First Amendment
separately mention free exercise of religion? The history
of religious persecution gives the answer. Religion
needed specific protection because it was subject to attack
from a separate quarter. It was often claimed that one
was an heretic and guilty of blasphemy because he failed to
conform in mere belief or in support of prevailing institutions and theology. It was to assure religious teaching as
much freedom as secular discussion, rather than to assure
it greater license, that led to its separate statement.
The First Amendment grew out of an experience which
taught that society cannot trust the conscience of a
majority to keep its religious zeal within the limits that
a free society can tolerate. I do not think it any more
intended to leave the conscience of a minority to fix its
limits. Civil government can not let any group ride
rough-shod over others simply because their "consciences",
tell them to do so.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of JACKSON, J.

319 U. S.

A common-sense test as to whether the Court has
struck a proper balance of these rights is to ask what the
effect would be if the right given to these Witnesses should
be exercised by all sects and denominations. If each competing sect in the United States went after the householder
by the same methods, I should think it intolerable. If a
minority can put on this kind of drive in a community,
what' 6an a majority resorting to the same tactics do to
individuals and minorities? Can we give to one sect a
privilege that we could not give to all, merely in the hope
that most of them will not resort to it? Religious freedom in the long run does not come from this kind of
license to each sect to fix its own limits, but comes of hardheaded fixing of those limits by neutral authority with
an eye to the'widest freedom to proselyte compatible with
the freedom of those subject to proselyting pressures.
I cannot accept the holding in the Murdock case that the
behavior revealed here "occupies the same high estate
under the First Amendment as do worship in the churches
and preaching from the pulpits." To put them on the
same constitutional plane seems to me to have a dangerous
tendency towards discrediting religious freedom.
Neither can I think it an essential part of freedom that
religious differences be aired in language that is obscene,
abusive, or inciting to retaliation. We have held that a
Jehovah's Witness may not call a public officer a "God
damned racketeer" and a "damned Fascist," because that
is to use "fighting words," and such are not privileged.
Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568. How then
can the Court today hold it a "high constitutional privilege" to go to homes, including those of devout Catholics
on Palm Sunday morning, and thrust upon them literature calling their church a "whore" and their faith a
li'racket"
?

4 Compare Valentine v. Chrestensen, 316 U. S. 52, permitting a ban
on distribution of a handbill containing a civic appeal on one side and
a

commercial advertisement on the other.

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
157

Opinion of

JACKsoN, J.

Nor am I convinced that we can have freedom of religion
only by denying the American's deep-seated. conviction
that his home is a refuge from the pulling and hauling of
the market place and the street. For a stranger to corner
a man in his home, summon him to the door and put him
in the position either of arguing his religion or of ordering
one of unknown disposition to leave is a questionable use
of religious freedom.'
I find it impossible to believe that the Struthers case
can be solved by reference to the statement that "The
authors of the First Amendment knew that novel and unconventional ideas might disturb the complacent, but they
chose to encourage a freedom which they believed essential if vigorous enlightenment was ever to triumph over
slothful ignorance." I doubt if only the slothfully ignorant wish repose in their homes, or that the forefathers
intended to open the door to such forced "enlightenment"
as we have here.
In these cases, local authorities caught between the
offended householders and the drive of the Witnesses, have
been hard put to keep the peace of their communities.
They have invoked old ordinances that are crude and
clumsy for the purpose. I should think that the singular
persistence of the turmoil about Jehovah's Witnesses, one
which seems to result from the work of no other sect,
would suggest to this Court a thorough examination of
their methods to see if they impinge unduly on the rights
of others. Instead of that the Court has, in one way after
another, tied the hands of all local authority and made the
aggressive methods of this group the law of the land.
This Court.is forever adding new stories to the temples
of constitutional law, and the temples have a way of
collapsing when one story too many is added. So it was
with liberty of contract, whichwas discredited by being
overdone. The Court is adding a new privilege to overSee Chafee, supra footnote 3, pp. 400-407.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

319 U. S.

ride the rights of others to what has before been regarded
as religious liberty. In so doing it needlessly creates a
risk of discrediting a wise provision of our Constitution
which protects all-those in homes as well as those out of
them-in the peaceful, orderly practice of the religion of
their choice but which gives no right to force it upon
others.
Civil liberties had their origin and must find their ulti-.
mate guaranty in the faith of the people. If that faith
should be lost, five or nine men in Washington could not
long supply its want. Therefore we must do our utmost
to make clear and easily understandable the reasons for
deciding these cases as we do. Forthright observance of
rights presupposes their forthright definition.
I think that the majority- has failed in this duty. I
therefore dissent in Murdock and Struthers and concur
in the result in Douglas.
I join in the opinions of MR. JUSTICE REED in Murdock
and Struthers, and in that of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER
in Murdock.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER joins in these views.
LOCKERTY

ET AL.

v. PHILLIPS, UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 934.

Argued May 3, 1943.-Decided May 10, 1943.

1. The Emergency Price Control Act of 1942 sets up a procedure
whereby any person subject to any regulation or order promulgated under the Act may on "protest" of the regulation or order
secure its review by the Administrator; and, if the protest is denied,
the Act confers on the Emergency Court (and on the Supreme Court
upon review of decisions of the Emergency Court) equity jurisdic-

-

