OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

50

Syllabus.

319 U. S.

contrary Congressional purpose toward private carrier
employees to lead us to accept the argument advanced
here by the employees. No such evidence appears."
No. 581, reversed.
No. 725, affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. SOUTHERN BELL TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 460. Argued March 5, 8, 1943.-Decided May 3, 1943.
The conclusion of the National Labor Relations Board in this case,
that an association of employees which prior to the passage of the
National Labor Relations Act in 1935 was a company-dominated and
supported union had not ceased to be such, notwithstanding the
reorganization of the association and efforts to dissipate the effect
of such early domination, was supported by substantial evidence;
and the order directing the company to disestablish completely the
association as bargaining representative, and to cease and desist
7

District Courts which have interpreted § 13 (b) (1) have reached
the same conclusion as we do. Faulknpr v. Little Rock FurnitureMfg.
Co., 32 F. Supp. 590; Bechtel v. Stillwater Milling Co., 33 F. Supp.
1010; Fitzgerald v. Kroger Grocery & Baking Co., 45 F. Supp. 812;
9604; Derer v.
Gibson v. Wilson & Co., 2 Federal Carriers Cases
Snow Ice, Inc., 3 Federal Carriers Cases 80,029. The Wage and Hour
Division of the Department of Labor has taken the position that the
Fair Labor Standards Act applies to drivers of private carriers until
May 1, 1940, the date the Interstate Commerce Commission determined
that need existed for their regulation. Interpretative Bull. No. 9,
5 Wage & Hour Rep. 233, 235, March 30, 1942.
*Together with No. 461, National Labor Relations Board v. Southern
Association of Bell Telephone Employees, also on writ of certiorari, 317
U. S. 618, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

LABOR BOARD v. SOUTHERN BELL CO.

51

Opinion of the Court.

50

from giving effect to the contractual arrangements resulting from
the association's former representation of the employees, was within
the authority of the Board. P. 60.

129 F. 2d 410, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 618, to review judgments setting

aside an order of the National Labor Relations Board,
35 N. L. R. B. 621, and denying the Board's petition for
enforcement.

Mr.Robert B. Watts, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Messrs. Robert L. Stern and Ernest A. Gross and Miss
Ruth Weyand were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. MarionSmith, with whom Mr. John A. Boykin, Jr.
was on the brief, for respondent in No. 460; and Mr. James
A. Branch, with whom Mr. Frank A. Hooper, Jr. was on
the brief, for respondent in No. 461.
MR. JUSTIcE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
On this certiorari the question is whether the order of
the Board herein is supported by substantial evidence.
Upon charges filed by the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, A. F. of L., the Board issued a complaint on February 17, 1941, against respondent Southern
Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, charging inter
alia that respondent company was dominating and supporting respondent Southern Association of Bell Telephone Employees, hereafter referred to as the Association,
as a labor organization of its employees in violation of
§ 8 (2) of the act, and that in other ways respondent company had interfered with the rights of its employees in
the exercise of rights guaranteed them by § 7 in violation
of § 8 (1) of the act.' After hearing, the Board made findThe pertinent provisions of the National Labor Relations Act, 49
Stat. 449, 29 U. S. C. § 151 et seq., are as follows:

"SEc. 7. Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form,

join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through

representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in concerted

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319U. S.

ings and conclusions in support of the stated charges and
ordered that respondent cease and desist from dominating
or interfering with the Association, from contributing
financial and other support, recognizing it as the collective
bargaining agency of its employees and giving effect to or
entering into any collective bargaining contract with the
Association and further that itcease and desist from interfering with its employees in the exercise of their rights,
including the right to organize and bargain collectively, as
guaranteed by § 7 of the act. Affirmative action ordered
was that respondent withdraw all recognition from the
Association and post appropriate notices to its employees.
Separate petitions were filed in the court below by respondent and the Association to review this order and
activities, for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid
or protection.
"SEC. 8. It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employer"(1) To interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees in the exercise
of the rights guaranteed in section 7.
"(2) To dominate or interfere with the formation or administration
of any labor organization or contribute financial or other support to it:
Provided, That subject to rules and regulations made and published
by the Board pursuant to section 6 (a), an employer shall not be prohibited from permitting employees to confer with him during working
hours without loss of time or pay.
"SEc. 10.

"(c) ... If upon all the testimony taken the Board shall be of
the opinion that any person named in the complaint has engaged in or
is engaging in any such unfair labor practice, then the Board shall
state its findings of fact and shall issue and cause to be served on
such person an order requiring such person to cease and desist from
such unfair labor practice, and to take such affirmative action, including reinstatement of employees with or without back pay, as wili
effectuate the policies of this Act .
"(f) ... the findings of the Board as to the facts, if supported
by evidence, shall . . . be conclusive."

LABOR BOARD v. SOUTHERN BELL CO.
50

5

Opinion of the Court.

the Board answered, requesting enforcement. The court
below held that the Board's findings were without support in the evidence and that the Board's order requiring the respondent *to withdraw recognition from and
to disestablish the Association as the collective bargaining agency of its employees was an abuse of discretion and
contrary to the policy of the act. It accordingly vacated
the order of the Board and denied the Board's petition for
enforcement. We turn immediately to the facts of the
case and the Board's findings.
Respondent does a general telephone business in nine
southeastern states, furnishing local and long distance
communication facilities, both interstate and intrastate.
It has 23,000 employees and 1,375,000 subscribers.
The Association was organized in 1919 by respondent
Company to represent its employees as a labor organization and admittedly until July 5, 1935, the date of the
passage of the National Labor Relations Act, respondent liberally contributed support to the Association. The
factual center of controversy here, resolved by the Board
against the respondent, is whether this domination and
interference came to an end with the reorganization of
the Association in .the spring and summer of 1935 or at
any later date before the complaint. Another act of
disassociation is alleged by respondent to have taken place
on February 14, 1941.
There is testimony that in April and May, 1935, just
before the passage of the National Labor Relations Act,
the Association's president., Askew, in anticipation of the
passage of the act, successfully canvassed the membership for fifty cent contributions so that the Association
would have its own funds and be able to operate after
the bill became a law. The Company aided the solicitation with advice, automobile transportation and expenses
for the solicitors. Over five thousand dollars was raised.
Three Association officials actively engaged in the fund

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

raising. Askew, the President, Weil, the vice-president
and soon to be president, and Wilkes, the acting treasurer, were employees having close touch with the company management. Askew was a state cashier, Wilkes
was secretary to key officials and Weil, plant practice supervisor, a position described by him as covering the distribution and explanation to the proper employees of
printed routine job instructions.
On July 16, 1935, immediately after the passage of
the Labor Act, Warren, respondent's vice-president in
charge of operations, called a meeting of his chief supervisory employees, attended by Askew and Wilkes as Association officers. At this meeting the Wagner Act was
discussed and a "hands-off" policy announced by the Company as to the organization of its workers. The supervisory employees were instructed to and did transmit these
views down to the ranks by word of mouth, superior
supervisors speaking to their inferiors. No mention was
made at this meeting of the disestablishment or dissolution of the Association. A few days later a memorandum
on the "Wagner Bill Interpretations" was issued by the
Company and called to its employees' attention. It read
as follows:
"The Company can continue to pay salaries of Association officers who are filling their regular jobs and doing
Association work incidental to their regular duties.
"The Company can continue to pay the salaries of Association officers while engaged in conferring with Management and while they are meeting among themselves
before or after these conferences to discuss their presentation or disposition of the matters involved. Salaries
cannot be paid when Association officers are devoting their
'time solely to internal affairs of the Association.
"The Company cannot pay traveling expenses. However, all Management Representatives are anxious to cooperate and will endeavor to meet Association officers

LABOR BOARD v. SOUTHERN BELL CO.
50

55

Opinion of the Court.

at such times and places as will be most convenient and
economical.
"The Association may continue to use Company premises for their meetings without charge. Space for the
exclusive full time use of the Association could not be
provided without proper charge.
"Association Local meetings cannot be held on Company time.
"The Association may use Company typewriters and
other office facilities when such is incidental to the regular Company use of these facilities. Out-of-pocket expenses such as stamps, stationery and supplies cannot be
borne by the Company.
"Association Representatives may make limited use of
toll lines upon the same basis as is effective for employees
generally.
"The expense of preparation and distribution of the
Minutes of Joint Conferences will be borne by the
Company."
This memorandum was revised in accordance with the
Company's views of developments in the interpretation
of the National Labor Relations Act. The most significant changes occurred in the revision of April 1937 when
the paragraph as to salaries was changed to read:
"1. The Company can pay salaries of association officers while engaged in conferring with Management. The
Company cannot pay salaries of association officers under
the following conditions:
"(a) While they are meeting among themselves before
and after joint conferences to discuss their presentation
or disposition of the matters involved.
"(b) While association officers are devoting their time
solely to internal affairs of the association."
In that issue, it was made clear that the Association
must pay for services rendered by the Company, such as

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

space, long distance calls and collection of dues. The
memorandum concluded:
"The provisions of this Act make it illegal for an employer to dominate or interfere with the formation or administration of any labor organization, and the Management of this Company should conscientiously observe
these provisions."
No disestablishment of the Association as the representative of the employees in their negotiations with the management appears from this evidence and the Board found
none.
Respondents urge that the historical continuity between the Company organized and financed employee
association of 1919 to 1936 and the reorganized association of 1936 to date is not controlling in determining
whether the Association was dominated by the Company
in 1941. There was certainly sufficient evidence of continuity to form a basis for the Board's conclusion that
the reorganization did not so completely displace the
original association as to amount at that time to the creation of a "free and uninspired" employee agency. The
reorganization was guided by the principal officers of the
existing association. The vice-president of the old became the president of the new. Two of these active
reorganizers continued in the higher offices of the Association through 1939. A new agreement with the Company,
which for the first time provided for a check-off for association dues, was negotiated. before the ratification of the
changes in the association constitution, which were made
in an attempt to conform to the National Labor Relations
Act. The reorganization proceeded by revision rather
than by original creation. Members were ineligible for
election to offices in locals until a year from their admission
and to the presidency until five years. In asking for new
applications for membership, it was explained by the
Association that it would provide a complete record of

LABOR BOARD v. SOUTHERN BELL CO.
50

57

Opinion of the Court.

membership "and it is not to be considered as a new
application for membership." Until the March 1940
meeting, the preamble of the revised constitution referred,
to the formation of the Association in 1919. At that date,
the preamble was changed so that it recited the date of
the formation to be August 30, 1935.
The revision of the constitution was important from
the standpoint of the Labor Act. The Company could
no longer properly pay the expenses of the Association.
Consequently the membership had to pay dues to meet
the expenses. These changes were made.
Even though this continuity of the employee organization as a matter of law may not be controlling as to
the continuance of dominance by the Company, it is at
least evidence of such dominance, entitled to consideration by the Board. The effects of long practice persist.
Notwithstanding freedom from labor difficulties, the
disestablishment of an employee organization may be
necessary to give untrammelled freedom for the creation
of a bargaining unit. Labor Board v. Greyhound Lines,
303 U. S. 261, 271; Labor Board v. Newport News Co.,
308 U. S. 241, 250; Westinghouse Electric & MI g. Co. v.
Labor Board, 112 F. 2d 657, 660, affirmed 312 U. S. 660.
So much the respondents concede, or at least assume.
They agree that a cleavage is necessary but they deny
that the Board may decide that all that happened between the passage of the Act in 1935 and the issuance of
the complaint in 1941 does not overcome the lawful domination prior to the enactment of the Act. Formal disestablishment is not, the Company says, the only act
which will comply with the law and the evidence after
the passage of the Labor Act shows without contradiction, so the respondents contend, that the Company
was neutral and the Association the choice of the
employees.
The Board called attention to minor favors shown the
Association after 1935 by the Company. The use of a

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Company bulletin board to post association notices, .the
limited use of employer space or facilities, the deduction
of dues without charge, all without discrimination between employee organizations and prior to administrative
and judicial clarification of the Labor Act, may be of little importance but they are a part of the circumstances
from which the Board is to draw conclusions.
There is also evidence that in 1940 a long distance supervisor at Shreveport, Louisiana, at a superior's suggestion, undertook to influence two subordinates to favor the
Association against the efforts of an outside union to secure members. While only a single incident, it is entitled
to consideration.by the Board.
The respondents' evidence shows further that when an
outside union sought members among the Company employees and while the Labor Board was investigating
charges of Association dominance by the Company, the
Association wrote the Company in part as follows:
"Because such a charge clouds this Association's right
to represent the employees of the Company and that under such circumstances the best interests of the employees
may not adequately be served, the Association will not
undertake to act as their collective bargaining agent pending a canvass of its membership by signed ballot."
Immediately the Company on February 14, 1941, posted
notice to its employees which quoted §§ 7 and 8 of the
Labor Act and then added:
"The Company Recognizes Its Employees' Right to
Join, Form or Affiliate With Any Labor Organization of
Their Own Choice and Freely to Exercise All Rights
Secured to Them by This Act.
"The Company Guarantees Its Strict Compliance With
All the Provisions of This Act and That No Employee
Will Be Discriminated Against or Suffer Any Other Penalty Because of His or Her Exercise of Any Right Secured
by This Act.

LABOR BOARD v. SOUTHERN BELL CO.
50

59

Opinion of the Court.

"The Company Is Not Interested in Whether Its Employees Join or Do Not Join Any Labor Organization."
Thereafter, by means of a signed ballot poll, a majority
of the employees indicated their desire to continue their
membership in the Association and their choice of the
Association as their representative for collective bargaining. Pending the poll, the Company continued in effect
its 1940 agreement with the Association. After the poll
and subsequent to a certification to it of the manner of
voting and the result, the Company on March 6, 1941,
recognized the Association as the "authorized collective
bargaining agent of the employees of this company." The
same agreement continued-to govern the relations between
the Company and the Association until the present
hearing.
The respondents' evidence shows also that in the years
1936 to 1940, 'inclusive, the Association represented the
employees in bargaining conferences over wages, hours
and working conditions. Out of these conferences came
substantial concessions to the employees, estimated by
witnesses as worth more than three million dollars annually to the employees.
From the group of circumstances heretofore detailed
in this opinion, the Board concluded that the Company
had continued to countenance the Association. It held
that:
"The effect of the domination and support of the Association by the respondent prior to and during the years
since 1935, could not, under the circumstances, be dissipated except by an explicit announcement to the employees that the respondent would no longer recognize
or deal with the Association. In the absence of such action by the respondent, its employees were not afforded
the -opportunity to start afresh in organizing for the
adjustment of their relations with the employer which
they must have if the policies of the Act are to be
effectuated."
531559-4-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

We are of the opinion that there was substantial evidence to justify this conclusion. Since the Association
prior to the passage of the National Labor Relations Act
in 1035 was obviously a company-dominated and supported union, the question of the weight to be given the
passage of time or subsequent efforts to dissipate the effect
of this early domination is for the Board.
Its conclusion is an inference of fact which may not be set aside
upon judicial review because the courts would have drawn
a different inference. Labor Board v. Greyhound Lines,
303 U. S,261, 270; Labor Board v. Falk Corp., 308 U. S.
453, 461.
iTalagement control over company-sponsored employee
organizations runs the entire scale of intensity. It may
be slight or complete. A genuinely free union composed
of employees of one corporation alone may satisfy the requirements of § 7 but where, as here, evidence exists of
original employer interference, the Board may appraise
the situation and even forbid the appearance of such a
union on the ballot to select bargaining representatives
where in the Board's judgment the evidence does not
establish the union's present freedom from employer control. Labor Board v. Falk Corp., supra, 461, 462. In the
present case the Board ordered the Company to completely
disestablish the Association as bargaining representative
and to cease and desist from giving effect to the contractual arrangements resulting from the Association's
former representation of the employees. For the reasons
given this order was, in our opinion, within the discretion
of the Board.
The order of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the cause is remanded to that Court with instructions
to enforce the order of the Board.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE ROBERTS

or decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

