590

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
319 U. S.

Syllabus.

tions or our Government.!

What these appellants com-

municated were their beliefs and opinions

S

concerning

domestic measures and trends in national and world
affairs.
Under our decisions criminal sanctions cannot be imposed for such communication.
The judgments are

Reversed.
INTERSTATE TRANSIT LINES v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 552. Argued April 19, 1943.--Decided June 14, 1943.
1. A corporation, operating a bus line interstate and intrastate, finding
that in a particular State it could not lawfully engage in the local
,business because it had not been there incorporated, organized, pursuant to the laws of that State, a wholly-owned subsidiary which took
over the parent company's traffic from the state line and operated
intrastate as well. Pursuant to the contract between them, the
parent corporation kept the accounts of the subsidiary, managed its
finances, paid its bills, and absorbed all of its profits and deficits.
Held:
(1) That a payment made by the parent company to cover an
operating deficit of the subsidiary during a tax year was not deductible by the parent company under § 23 (a) of the Revenue Act
of 1936 from gross income as an ordinary and necessary business
expense of that company. P. 593.
(2) In the absence of proof allocating the deficit as between the
intrastate and interstate business of the subsidiary, the entire deficit
must be attributed to the intrastate business. P. 594.
. (3) The mere fact that the expense was incurred under
contractual obligation did not sustain the deduction. P. 594.
See De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353; Herndon v. Lowry, 301
U. S. 242.
See Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359; Thornhill v. Alabama
310 U. S. 88.
7

INTERSTATE TRANSIT LINES v. COMM'R. 591
590

Opinion of the Court.

2. An income tax deduction is by legislative grace; and the burden of

showing his right to the deduction is on the taxpayer. P. 593.
130 F. 2d 136, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 751, to review the affirmance of a
ruling (44 B. T. A. 957) sustaining a deficiency assessment
of income tax.

Mr. Nelson Trottman, with whom Mr. Joseph F. Mann
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
and Mr. Sewall Key were on the brief, for respondent.
MAR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case involves a claim by the taxpayer to treatment
of itself and a subsidiary as a single taxable person. The
writ of certiorari was granted because of uncertainties in
this area of important federal tax law. See Moline Propertiesv. Commissioner,ante, p. 436, n. 1. Petitioner, Interstate Transit Lines, sought to deduct $28,100.66 as an ordi-

nary and necessary business expense for the year 1936.
§ 23 (a), Revenue Act of 1936.' This sum represented a
credit to its subsidiary, Union Pacific Stages of California,
pursuant to a contract by which petitioner was to be liable
for all operating deficits of the subsidiary. The claimed
deduction was disallowed and a deficiency determined.
The Board of Tax Appeals sustained the Commissioner
and the Circuit Court of Appealsihas affirmed the Board.
Interstate TransitLines v. Commissioner,44 B. T. A. 957;
130 F. 2d 136.
149 Stat.

1648:

"See. 23. Deductions from Gross Income.
"In computing net income there shall be allowed as deductions:
"(a) Expenses.-All the ordinary and necessary expenses paid or
incurred during the taxable year in carrying on any trade or business . .

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. B.

Petitioner, a Nebraska corporation, operated an interstate bus transportation line between Illinois and California, and Missouri and Wyoming, and did an intrastate
business in most of the states en route. Because of its
foreign incorporation, petitioner was barred, under the
California Railroad Commission's interpretation of California law, from obtaining a certificate of public convenience to do intrastate business in California. To avoid
this situation, petitioner in 1930 organized Stages in California as its wholly-owned subsidiary to do the business it
was unable to do. It contracted with Stages that Stages
was to operate solely for petitioner's benefit and under
petitioner's direction; all profits were to be paid to petitioner and it was to reimburse Stages for any operating
deficit. In addition to its own intrastate business, Stages
was to carry on all of petitioner's interstate business in
California, the agreement providing that as each party's
buses crossed the state line, the other became its lessee.
The lessee was to pay the lessor five cents per mile operated by the bus in the lessee's custody. All this resulted
in no change and no added expense in the business formerly
done in respects other than accounting except for the addition to the gross revenues of the enterprise of the proceeds
of intrastate California business. Petitioner kept Stages'
accounts, managed its finances and paid its bills and payroll. Each month petitioner apportioned between the
two companies the revenues and expenses on the basis of
passenger and traffic mileage. On the books of each a
"clearing account" with the other showed the absorption
by petitioner of Stages' annual deficit or profit. It is the
1936 operating deficit of Stages, entered on the books of
both on December 31 of that year, which petitioner now
seeks to deduct as its business expense. Some years after
1936, by reason of a change in California law or its interpretation, petitioner became able to conduct intrastate

INTERSTATE TRANSIT LINES v. COMM'R. 593
590

Opinion of the Court.

business in California. Consequently Stages was dissolved and its assets and franchises transferred to petitioner. In 1932 and 1933, consolidated income tax returns were filed by petitioner pursuant to § 141 of the
Revenue Act of 1932, 47 Stat. 169, 213.
Whether phrased as the payment of an expense in a business conducted for a principal by an agent or as a case
where equity and reality require that the separate corporate identities be ignored or as the incurring under contract of a necessary expense, petitioner's argument for
its success depends on the contention that Stages' operating deficit is an expense of petitioner's business. Without this keystone the entire argument must fall. And
we examine the argument in the light of the now familiar
rule that an income tax deduction is a matter of legislative grace and that the burden of clearly showing the
right to the claimed deduction is on the taxpayer. New
Colonial Ice Co. v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 435, 440; Deputy
v. du Pont, 308 U. S. 488, 493. The decision of the two
courts below is that this burden has not been met.
This is not the case of a mere branch or division of a
business conducted solely for convenience' sake under a
separate corporate form. Petitioner did an interstate bus
business and was a corporation foreign to California. On
the other hand, the business of Stages in the tax year in
question was both interstate and intrastate. For petitioner to engage in intrastate business in California was,
on the findings, illegal. Thus, the businesses of the two
companies were distinct. Cf. Edwards v. Chile Copper
Co., 270 U. S. 452, 454, 456; Texas-Empire Pipe Line Co.
v. Commissioner, 127 F. 2d 220. Even assuming that the
interstate business of Stages could be the business of the
petitioner, it follows that at most only that part of
2 Cf. Moline Propertiesv. Commissioner, ante, p. 436; Higgins v.
Smith, 308 U. S. 473, 477, n. 8-10.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.S.

the deficit attributable to Stages' interstate business could
be an expense of petitioner's business and petitioner could
not conceivably deduct as a business expense the cost of
Stages' intrastate business. There was no showing below
as to the allocation of the deductions sought as between
Stages' intrastate and interstate business. There is thus
no record requiring a further examination of petitioner's
argument since in the absence of affirmative proof to
the contrary we must assume that the entire deficiency
was found correctly by the Commissioner and that the
deficit is attributable to Stages' intrastate business.
It is no answer to this defect of proof that petitioner
was obligated by contract to assume Stages' deficit. The
mere fact that the expense was incurred under contractual
obligation does not of course make it the equivalent of a
rightful deduction under § 23 (a). That subsection limits
permitted deductions to those paid or incurred "in carrying on any trade, or business." The origin and nature,
and not the legal form, of the expense sought to be deducted determines the applicability of the words of § 23
(a). Deputy v. du Pont, supra, 494. It was not the
business of the taxpayer to pay the costs of operating an
intrastate bus line in California. The carriage of intrastate passengers did not increase the business of the taxpayer. The profit earned on their carriage increased the
taxpayer's profit but so would any other profitable activity wholly disconnected from the taxpayer's own business. As the Circuit Court pointed out, the assumption
of the deficit was not dependent upon a corresponding
service or benefit rendered to the petitioner by Stages
in connection with petitioner's business. 130 F. 2d 136,
139.
In view of these conclusions, it is unnecessary to characterize the payment by petitioner as a capital expenditure or otherwise, or to decide whether if the record were
complete petitioner and Stages should be treated as a

INTERSTATE TRANSIT LINES v. COMM'R. 595
590

JAcsoN,

J., dissenting.

taxable entity for the claimed purpose. Cf. Moline Properties v. Commissioner,ante, p. 436.

Affirmed.
MR. JusTICE JACKSON, dissenting:
This taxpayer operated a bus system between Chicago
and Los Angeles. It could not pick up intrastate passengers in California, as it did elsewhere, because the State
denied foreign corporations permission to do so. In order
to obtain local traffic to help carry the cost of operating
the interstate buses, taxpayer organized a wholly-owned
and dominated California subsidiary. This contented 'the
local authorities, and it was granted permission to carry
local business. It took over buses arriving at the state
line, operated them in California, thus performing a part
of the taxpayer's agreements of through carriage and benefiting from local traffic to reduce the cost. It was a common-sense business arrangement, for the purpose of
making its business profitable.
The taxpayer made a contract with the subsidiary, by
which the subsidiary undertook the service; the parent
company became entitled to the profits and assumed the
losses. The taxpayer agreed to reimburse the subsidiary
for any operating deficit. This, too, was a common-sense
business arrangement. To pay its wholly-owned su'-"
sidiary more would be pointless, for it would only comb
back. To pay it less would result in its bankruptcy to
the injury of creditors. So the taxpayer agreed that the
operating deficits should be the measure of itscontractual
obligation to the subsidiary.
There is no suggestion that this arrangement was for tax
avoidance, or for that matter that it did not actually reduce taxpayer's costs and thus increase. its tax liability.
The Commissioner ruled, however, that the amount of
operating deficit paid by the taxpayer was not a business
expense.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

319 U.S.

To require the Commissioner in all cases to allow a deduction so fixed might be turned by the unscrupulous to
tax-evasion ends. It could then, through its controlled
subsidiary, make expenditures not properly allowalle as
business expense, but get them allowed as part of the deficit
assumed by contract. Of course the Commissioner is not
obliged to-allow this, or any other arrangement, when it is
used as a cover for tax skullduggery. Examination of the
items is open to the Commissioner. But this deduction has
been denied, not for such reasons, but upon a legal theory
which I think is erroneous.
The taxpayer took inconsistent positions: first, that the
corporate entity of the subsidiary should be disregarded
and the two companies taxed on a consolidated basis; second, that the amount was a proper deduction under the contract, which of course implies existence of two parties to
contract. The Government, not to be outdone in the matter of inconsistency, denied the separate entity theory and
also disregarded the contract, and argues to us "the contract
of the taxpayer to make good Stages' operating deficits
is one pervaded by the stockholder-corporation relation.
Any contribution to Stages under this contract must therefore be regarded as incident to the taxpayer's stockholder
status." So the Government says the payment was not a
compensation for services which the contract provides that
it Was, but was a "capital contribution" which the contract
says it was not.
I think there is no merit in the taxpayer's theory that the
Commissioner must disregard the corporate entity of the
subsidiary. If a taxpayer itself creates and uses a corporation, he cannot require the Commissioner to say it
isn't there.
But on the other hand, if the Commissioner says there
are two entities, it would seem that they would be able to
-contract with each other, one to perform a service and the
other to pay a price. The service may be, and often is,

INTERSTATE TRANSIT LINES v. COMM'R. 597
590

JACKSON, J.,

dissenting.

one that the taxpayer could not perform for .itself, but if
it is hired to build up its business, I see no reason why its
proper cost is not a business expense deduction. The
price need not be a fixed one, but may be determinable by
costs or other contingencies; but when fixed, its amount
(barring use as a device to evade) is the amount of the deduction. Cost or "cost plus" is one of the Government's
own methods of contracting. It is not an illicit method for
a taxpayer to employ.
But it is urged that since the taxpayer could not itself
pick up local business under California law, it cannot be the
business of the taxpayer in a legal sense to have a subsidiary do so, and disbursements to have local business
brought in are legally foreign to its business, although for
its benefit. I do not suppose the taxpayer corporation
can itself legally practice law or medicine, but I would
suppose if it needed legal service for its business or
thought it good business to supply medical attention to
injured or ailing employees, the cost would be a business
deduction, even though the agent was doing what the
taxpayer could not legally do for itself. The taxpayer
may not be authorized to run a newspaper or put up billboards, but if it contracted for services of those who are, in
order to fill vacant seats in its buses, I do not suppose its
cost would be disallowed for that reason.
This company has not violated the law, even of California. Indeed, it went to this trouble to comply with it.
The fact that it used a subsidiary to benefit its business in
areas where its own competence was lacking can hardly invalidate the arrangement, particularly since it is insisted
that the subsidiary had separate legal and tax existence.
If states create dummies, business men may utilize them
so long as they keep within the law, and the function of
the revenue laws is not to tell them how they shall manage business, but to see that what they do has proper tax
conseauences.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

319 U. S.

Since the decision of this case the Tax Court has held in
a very similar case that where a wholly-owned subsidiary
exclusively performs services essential to the business of
the parent corporation, advances made by the parent to
meet the subsidiary's operating deficit are deductible as a
business expense. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Commissioner, No. 105730, March 25, 1943. I think this is a correct rule. Judge Harron there avoids the force of this case
only upon the ground that the parent corporation here
could not itself engage in the business done in its behalf by
the subsidiary. That distinction is good enough to get
the Tax Court away from a bad rule, but I see no reason
why such a deduction should be available in case of an
unnecessary subsidiary and be refused in the case of one
needed to comply with state laws in making a profitable
enterprise. I would reverse.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join in
this dissent.
OKLAHOMA TAX COMMISSION v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 623, 624, and 625.

Argued April 9, 1943.-Decided June 14, 1943.

1. The statutes of Oklahoma taxing transfers of estates of decedents
apply to Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes. P. 600.
2. The doctrine of implied constitutional immunity of "restricted"
Indian lands from state estate taxation, based on the federal instrumentality theory, has in effect been overruled by Helvering v. Moun-

tain Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376. P. 603.
3. The Act of January 27, 1933, by declaring that all funds and securities under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior belonging

to Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes in Oklahoma of one-half or
more Indian blood are "restricted," did not intend to exempt transfers
of such property from estate taxes imposed by the State.

P. 604.

