ST. PIERRE v. UNITED STATES.
38

Statement of the Case.

United States, supra. The statute authorizes the suit,
including the appeal, to be prosecuted in forma pauperis
upon order of the court in which the proceeding is commenced. The right to appeal in forma pauperis from the
district court to the circuit court of appeals is not conditioned upon the consent of the circuit court of appeals,
even though it be assumed that that court could grant
such permission.
It follows that petitioner's application for appeal in
forma pauperis should have been entertained by the district court and that opportunity should now be given to
that court to act on the application before the consideration of other questions which the petitioner seeks to raise
here by his application for certiorari. We accordingly
grant the motion to proceed in forma pauperis in this
Court. We also grant the petition for certiorari, and remand the cause to the district court for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
So ordered.
ST. PIERRE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 687. Argued April 15, 1943-Decided May 3, 1943.
1. The sentence which this Court granted certiorari to review having
been fully served, and petitioner not having shown that under either
state or federal law further penalties or disabilities can be imposed on
him as a result of the judgment, the cause is moot and the writ of
certiorari is dismissed. P. 42.
2. The moralstigma of a judgment which no longer affects legal rights
does not present a case or controversy for appellate review. P. 43.

Dismissed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 751, to review the affirmance (132
F. 2d 837) of a sentence to imprisonment for contempt of
court.

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Mr. Edward V. Broderick, with whom Messrs. S. Bertram
Friedman and Joseph H. Broderick were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Berge, and Messrs. Robert L. Stern and Oscar A. Provost
and Misses Melva M. Graney and Beatrice Rosenberg
were on the brief, for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner, who it is alleged had in his testimony before
a federal grand jury confessed to the commission of the
crime of embezzlement, refused to divulge the name of
the person whose money he had embezzled. For the refusal the district court sentenced him to five months' imprisonment for contempt of court, and the circuit court
of appeals affirmed the judgment. 132 F. 2d 837. We
granted certiorari, 318 U. S. 751, on a petition which
raised important questions with respect to petitioner's
.constitutional immunity from self-incrimination. In the
order allowing the writ we requested counsel to discuss
the question whether the case had become moot.
On the argument it was conceded that petitioner had
fully served his sentence before certiorari was granted. We
are of opinion that the case is moot because, after petitioner's service of his sentence and its expiration, there
was no longer a subject matter on which the judgment
of this Court could operate. A federal court is without
power to decide moot questions or to give advisory opinions
which cannot affect the rights of the litigants in the case
before it. United States v. Alaska S. S. Co., 253 U. S.
113, 115-16, and cases cited; United States v. HamburgAmerican Co., 239 U. S. 466,475-77. The sentence cannot
be enlarged by this Court's judgment, and reversal of
the judgment below cannot operate to undo what has
been done or restore to petitioner the penally of the term

ST. PIERRE v. UNITED STATES.
41

Opinion of the Court.

of imprisonment which he has served. Nor has petitioner shown that under either state or federal law further
penalties or disabilities can be imposed on him as a result of the judgment which has now been satisfied. In
these respects the case differs from that of an injunction
whose command continues to operate in futuro even
though obeyed. FederalTrade Comm'n v. Goodyear Co.,
304 U. S. 257, 260, and cases cited.
It does not'appear that petitioner could not have
brought his case to this Court for review before the expiration of his sentence, and although it is said he applied for bail to the district court and to the circuit court
of appeals, he did not apply to this Court for a stay or
a supersedeas. The Government admits that petitioner
will be required to testify again before the grand jury
and that in the event of his refusal it will ask that he be
committed until he answers. In that case, there will
be ample opportunity to review such a judgment; and
even though he be sentenced to a fixed term, the questions which he seeks to raise here may be preserved by his
admission to bail, or by the grant of a stay or a supersedeas, for which he may apply to this Court if necessary.
In. all these respects the case differs from Southern Pacific
Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219
U. S. 498, which we do not regard as controlling here.
Petitioner also suggests that the judgment may impair
his credibility as witness in any future legal proceeding.
But the moral stigma of a judgment which no longer affects legal rights does not present a case or controversy
for appellate review. Since the cause is moot, the writ
will be
Dismissed.
531559-44--7

