312

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

ADAMS ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM

v.

319 U. S.

UNITED STATES ET AL.

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 889. Argued May 10, 1943.-Decided May 24, 1943.
1. Under the Act of October 9, 1940, the Government of the United
States acquired no jurisdiction to prosecute and punish for rape
committed on land acquired by the United States within a State
after the date of the Act, where jurisdiction "exclusive or partial"
over the area has not been accepted by the United States in the
manner which the Act prescribes. P. 313.
2. The term "partial jurisdiction" as used in the Act includes concurrent jurisdiction. P. 314.

RESPONSE to questions submitted by the Circuit Court
of Appeals with respect to an appeal from a sentence imposed by the District Court in a prosecution for rape at a
military camp.
Mr. Thurgood Marshall, with whom Mr. W. Robert
Ming, Jr., was on the brief, for Richard P. Adams et al.
Mr. Robert L. Stern, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Messrs.
Oscar A. Provost and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief,
for the United States et al.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has
certified to us two questions of law pursuant to § 239 of
the Judicial Code. The certificate shows that the three
defendants were soldiers and were convicted under 18
U. S. C. §§ 451, 457, in the federal District Court for the
Western District of Louisiana, for the rape of- a civilian
woman. The alleged offense occurred within the confines of Camp Claiborne, Louisiana, a government military
camp, on land to which the government had acquired title
at the time of the crime. The ultimate question is

ADAMS v. UNITED STATES.
312

Opinion of the Court.

whether the camp was, at the time of the crime, within
-the federal criminal jurisdiction.
The Act of October 9, 1940, 40 U. S. C. § 255, passed
prior to the acquisition of the land on which Camp Claiborne is located, provides that United States agencies and
authorities may accept exclusive or partial jurisdiction
over lands acquired by the United States by filing a notice
with the Governor of the state in which the land is located
or by taking other similar appropriate action. The Act
provides further: "Unless and until the United States has
accepted jurisdiction over lands hereafter to be acquired
as aforesaid, it shall be conclusively presumed that no
such jurisdiction has been accepted." The government
had not given notice of acceptance of jurisdiction at the
time of the alleged offense.1
The questions certified are as follows:
"1. Is the effect of the Act of Oct. 9, 1940, above quoted,
to provide that, as to lands within a State thereafter acquired by the United States, no jurisdiction exists in the
United States to enforce the criminal laws embraced in
United States Code Title 18, Chapter 11, and especially
Section 457 relating to rape, by virtue of Section 451,
Third, as amended June 11, 1940, unless and until a consent to accept jurisdiction over such lands is filed in behalf
of the United States as provided in said Act?
"2. Had the District Court of the Western District of
Louisiana jurisdiction, on the facts above set out, to try
and sentence the appellants for the offense of rape committed within the bounds of Camp Claiborne on May 10,
1942?"
Since the government had not given the notice required
by the 1940 Act, it clearly did not have either "exclusive or
partial" jurisdiction over the camp area. The only pos1Exclusive jurisdiction over the lands on which the Camp is located
was accepted for the federal government by the Secretary of War
in a letter to the Governor of Louisiana, effective January 15, 1943.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.S

sible reason suggested as to why the 1940 Act is inapplicable is that it does not require the government to give
notice of acceptance of "concurrent jurisdiction." This
suggestion rests on the assumption that the term "partial
jurisdiction" as used in the Act does not include "concurrent jurisdiction."
The legislation followed our decisions in James v. Dravo
ContractingCo., 302 U. S. 134; Mason Co. v. Tax Commission, 302 U. S. 186; and Collins v. Yosemite Park Co.,
304 U. S. 518. These cases arose from controversies concerning the relation of federal and state powers over government property and had pointed the way to practical
adjustments. The bill resulted from a co6perative study
by government officials, and was aimed at giving broad
discretion to the various agencies in order that they might
obtain only the necessary jurisdiction. ' The Act created
a definite method of acceptance of jurisdiction so that all
persohs could know whether the government had obtained
"no jurisdiction at all, or partial jurisdiction, or exclusive
jurisdiction." 8
Both the Judge Advocate General of the Army 4 and the
Solicitor of the Department of Agriculture 5 have construed the 1940 Act as requiring that notice of acceptance
be filed if the government is to obtain concurrent jurisdiction. The Department of Justice has abandoned the view
of jurisdiction which prompted the institution of this pro2
In the words of a sponsor of the bill, the object of the act was flexibility, so "that the head of the acquiring agency or department of the
Government could at any time designate what type of jurisdiction is
necessary; that is, either exclusive or partial. In other words, it
definitely contemplates leaving the question of extent of jurisdiction
necessary to the head of the land-acquiring agency." Hearings, House
Committee on Buildings and Grounds, H. R. 7293, 76th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 5.
8Ibid., 7.
' Ops. J. A. G. 680.2.
Opinion No. 4311, Solicitor, Department of Agriculture.

BURFORD v. SUN OIL CO.
312

Syllabus.

ceeding, and now advises us of its view that concurrent
jurisdiction can be acquired only by the formal acceptance
prescribed in the Act. These agencies co~perated in developing the Act, and their views are entitled to great
weight in its interpretation. Cf. Bowen v. Johnston, 306
U.S. 19,29-30. Besides, we can think of no other rational
meaning for the phrase "jurisdiction, exclusive or partial"
than that which the administrative construction gives it.
Since the government had not accepted jurisdiction in
the manner required by the Act, the federal court had no
jurisdiction of this proceeding. In this view it is immaterial that Louisiana statutes authorized the government
to take jurisdiction, since at the critical time the jurisdiction had not been taken.'
Our answer to certified question No. 1 is Yes and to
question No. 2 is No.
It is so ordered.
BURFORD ET AL. v. SUN OIL CO. ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 495. Argued February 8, 9, 1943. Reargued April 14, 15, 1943Decided May 24, 1943.
1. Jurisdiction by appeal from a state administrative body can' not
be conferred on the federal District Court by a state statute. P. 317.
2. A federal court having jurisdiction, whether by diversity of citizenship or by federal question, of a suit to enjoin enforcement of an
" Dart's Louisiana Stat. (Supp.) 2898. In view of the general applicability of the 1940 Act, it is unnecessary to consider the effect of the
Weeks Forestry Act, 16 U. S. C. 480, and the Louisiana statute dealing
with jurisdiction in national forests, Dart's Louisiana Stat. 3329, even
though the land involved here was originally acquired for forestry
purposes.
*Together with No. 496, Sun Oil Co. et al. v. Burford ct al., also
on writ of certiorari, 317 U. S. 623, to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit.
531559-44-24

