TOT v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Parties.

TOT v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 569. Argued April 5, 1943.-Decided June 7, 1943.
1. Sec. 2 (f) of the Federal Firearms Act, where it provides that it
shall be unlawful for any person who has been convicted of a crime
of violence or is a fugitive from justice to receive any firearm or
ammunition "which has been shipped or transported in interstate
or foreign commerce," is confined to the receipt of firearms or ammunition as a part of interstate transportation and does not extend
to the receipt, in an intrastate transaction, of such articles which, at
some prior time, have been transported interstate. P. 466.
2. Congress was without power to create the presumptions sought to
be created by § 2 (f) of the Federal Firearms Act, to wit: That, from
the prisoner's prior conviction of a crime of violence and his present
possession of a firearm or ammunition, it shall be presumed (1) that
the article was received by him in interstate or foreign commerce,
and (2) that such receipt occurred after July 30, 1938, the effective
date of the statute. P. 466.
3. A statutory presumption can not be sustained if there be no rational
connection in common experience between the fact proved and the
ultimate fact presumed. P. 467.
131 F. 2d 261, reversed.
13i F. 2d 614, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 623 (No. 569), to review the affirmance of a conviction under the Federal Firearms Act, and
certiorari, 318 U. S. 748 (No. 636), to review a judgment
reversing a like conviction.

Mr. George R. Sommer, with whom Mr. FredericM. P.
Pearsewas on the brief, for petitioner in No. 569. Messrs.
Jack N. Tucker and Morton A. Eden for respondent in
No. 636.
*Together with No. 636, United States v. Dtlia, on writ of certiorari
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit,-argued April
5, 6, 1943.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.S.

Assistant Attorney General Berge, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. Irwin L. Langbein and Valentine Brookes were on the briefs, for the United States.
Mr. HaroldH. Armstrong filed a brief, in No. 636, on behalf of William Minski, as amicus curiae,urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These cases involve the construction and validity of
§ 2 (f) of the Federal Firearms Act,' which is:
"It shall be unlawful for any person who has been convicted of a crime of violence or is a fugitive from justice
to receive any firearm or ammunition which has been
shipped or transported in interstate or foreign commerce,
and the possession of a firearm or ammunition by any such
person shall be presumptive evidence that such firearm or
ammunitioA was shipped or transported or received, as
the casemay be, by such person in violation of this Act."
In No. 569, Tot, the petitioner, was convicted I upon an
indictment which charged that he, having been previously
convicted of two crimes of violence, a burglary and an
assault and battery, with intent to beat, wound, and illtreat,' on or about September 20, 1938, at Newark, New
Jersey, knowingly, unlawfully, and feloniously received a
described firearm which "had been shipped and transported in interstate commerce to the said City of Newark."
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment.'
The Government's evidence was that Tot had been
convicted of assault and battery in 1925, and had pleaded
non vult to a charge of burglary in 1932 in state courts,
and that, on September 22, 1938, he was found in possession of a loaded automatic pistol.
c. 850, 52 Stat. 1250, 1251; 15 U. S. C. § 902 (f).
See 42 F. Supp. 252.
8These are crimes of violence according to the definition contained
in § 1 (6) of the Act, 15 U. S. C. § 901 (6).
• 13i F. 2d 261.
2

TOT v. UNITED STATES.
463

Opinion of the Court.

After denial of a motion for a directed verdict, Tot took
the stand and testified that he purchased the pistol in
1933 or 1934. He admitted the criminal record charged
in the indictment and other convictions. His sister and
his wife testified in corroboration of his evidence, but
their testimony was shaken on cross-examination. In
rebuttal the Government produced a representative of
the manufacturer who testified that the pistol had been
made in Connecticut in 1919 and shipped by the maker
to Chicago, Illinois. At the close of the case petitioner
renewed his motion for a directed verdict, which was
denied.
In No. 636, Delia, the respondent, was convicted upon
two counts. The first alleged that, on September 25,
1941, he was a person previously convicted of a crime of
violence-robbery while armed -and that he received
and possessed a firearm, described in the indictment,
"which firearm had theretofore been shipped and transported in interstate commerce." The second repeated
the allegation of previous conviction and charged that,
on September 25, 1941, he received and possessed certain cartridges which "had been theretofore shipped and
transported in interstate commerce." The Government's proof was that Delia had been convicted
of armed robbery and, on September 25, 1941, had in his
possession a loaded revolver which had been manufactured in Massachusetts prior to 1920; that some of the
cartridges in the pistol had been manufactured in Ohio
and some in Germany, the former after 1934 and the latter at an unknown date. The respondent testified that
he had, at about the time of his arrest, picked up the
revolver when it was dropped by a person who attacked
him, but there was testimony which tended to contradict
5Armed robbery is a crime of violence as defined in § 1 (6) of the
Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

this defense. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the
conviction on each count."
Both courts below held that the offense created by the
Act is confined to the receipt of firearms or ammunition
as a part of interstate transportation and does not extend
to the receipt, in an intrastate transaction, of such articles which, at some prior time, have been transported interstate. The Government agrees that this construction
is correct. There remains for decision the question of
the power of Congress to create the presumption which
§ 2 (f) declares, namely, that, from the prisoner's prior
conviction of a crime of violence and his present possession of a firearm or ammunition, it shall be presumed
(1) that the article was received by him in interstate or
foreign commerce, and (2) that such receipt occurred
subsequent to July 30, 1938, the effective date of the
statute.
The Government argues that the presumption created
by the; statute meets the tests of due process heretofore
laid down by this court. The defendants assert that it
fails to meet them because there is no rational connection
between the facts proved and the ultimate fact presumed,
that the statute is more than a regulation of the order of
proof based upon the relative accessibility of evidence
to prosecution and defense, and casts an unfair and
practically impossible burden of persuasion upon the
defendant.
An indictment charges the defendant with action
or
failure to act contrary to the law's command. It does not
constitute proof of the commission of the offense. Proof
of some sort on the part of the prosecutor is requisite to
a finding of guilt; it may consist of testimony of those
who witnessed the defendant's conduct. Although the
Government may be unable to produce testimony of eye
"131 F. 2d 614.

TOT v. UNITED STATES.
463

Opinion of the Court.

witnesses to the conduct on which guilt depends, this does
not mean that it cannot produce proof sufficient to support
a verdict. The jury is permitted to infer from one fact
the existence of another essential to guilt, if reason and
experience support the inference. In many circumstances
courts hold that proof of the first fact furnishes a basis
for inference of the existence of the second.!
The rules of evidence, however, are established not
alone by the courts but by the legislature. The Congress
has power to prescribe what evidence is to be received in
the courts of the United States.$ The section under consideration is such legislation. But the due process clauses
of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments set limits upoI4
the power of Congress or that of a state legislature to%
make the proof of one fact or group of facts evidence of
the existence of the ultimate fact on which guilt is predicated. The question is whether, in this instance, the Act
transgresses those limits.
The Government seems to argue that there are two
alternative tests of the validity of a presumption created
by statute. The first is that there be a rational connection
between the facts proved and the fact presumed; the second that of comparative convenience of producing evidence
of the ultimate fact. We are of opinion that these are
not independent tests but that the first is controlling and
the second but a corollary. Under our decisions, a statutory presumption cannot be sustained if there be no
rational connection between the fact proved and the ultimate fact presumed, if the inference of the one from proof
of the other is arbitrary because of lack of connection
Wilson v. United States, 162 U. S. 613, 619.
Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713, 721; Adams v. New York, 192 U. S.
585, 599; Mobile, J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 42;
Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219, 238; Luria v. United States, 231
U. S. 9; Hawes v. Georgia, 258 U. S. 1, 4.
8

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

between the two in common experience.' This is not to
say that a valid presumption may not be created upon a
view of relation broader than that a jury might take in a
specific case."0 But where the inference is so strained as
not to have a reasonable relation to the circumstances of
life as we know them, it is not competent for the legislature
to create it as a rule governing the procedure of courts.
The Government seeks to support the presumption by a
showing that, in most states, laws forbid the acquisition of
firearms without a record of the transaction or require registration of ownership. From these circumstances it is
argued that mere possession tends strongly to indicate that
acquisition must have been in an interstate transaction.
But we think the conclusion does not rationally follow.
Aside from the fact that a number of states have no such
laws, there is no presumption that a firearm must have
been lawfully acquired or that it was not transferred interstate prior to the adoption of state regulation. Even less
basis exists for the inference from mere possession that
acquisition occurred subsequent to the effective date of
the statute,-July 30, 1938. And, as no state laws or
regulations are cited with respect to the acquisition of
ammunition, there seems no reasonable ground for a
presumption that its purchase or procurement was in
interstate rather than in intrastate commerce.11 It is not
too much to say that the presumptions created by the law
are violent, and inconsistent with any argument drawn
from experience.
*Mobile, J. & K. C. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, supra, p. 43; Bailey vi
Alabama, supra, 239; Lindsley v.. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S.
61, 81; Luria v. United States, supra, 25; McFarland v. American
Sugar Rfg. Co., 241 U. S. 79, 86; Manley v. Georgia, 279 U. S. 1;
Western & Atlantic R. Co. v. Henderson,279 U. S. 639, 642; Morrison
v. California,291 U. S. 82, 90.
20 Bailey v. Alabama, supra, 235.
21 Delia was convicted upon an indictment which charged, inter alia,
receipt of ammunition.

TOT v. UNITED STATES.
463

Opinion of the Court.

Nor can the fact that the defendant has the better
means of information, standing alone, justify the creation
of such a presumption. In every criminal case the defendant has at least an equal familiarity with the facts and
in most a greater familiarity with them than the prosecution. It might, therefore, be argued that to place upon all
defendants in criminal cases the burden of going forward
with the evidence would be proper. But the argument
proves too much. If it were sound, the legislature might
validly command that the finding of an indictment, or
mere proof of the identity of the accused, should create a
presumption of the existence of all the facts essential to
guilt. This is not permissible.12
Whether the statute in question be treated as expressing the normal balance of probability, or as laying down
a rule of comparative convenience in the production of
evidence, it leaves the jury free to act on the presumption
alone once the specified facts are proved, unless the defendant comes forward with opposing evidence. And
this we think enough to vitiate the statutory provision.
Doubtless the defendants in these cases knew better
than anyone else whether they acquired the firearms or
ammunition in interstate commerce. It would, therefore, be a convenience to the Government to rely upon
the presumption and cast on the defendants the burden
of coming forward with evidence to rebut it. But, as we
have shown, it is not permissible thus to shift the burden
by arbitrarily making one fact, which has no relevanceto guilt of the offense, the occasion of casting on the defendant the obligation of exculpation. The argument
from' convenience is admissible only where the inference
is a permissible one, where the defendant has more convenient access to the proof, and where requiring him to
go forward with proof will not subject him to unfairness
1

2McFarlandv.

American Sugar Rfg. Co., supra, 86.

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

or hardship.18 Even if the presumption in question were
in itself reasonable, we think that the nature of the offense,
and the elements which go to constitute it, render it impossible to sustain the statute, for the reason that one element of the offense is the prior conviction of a crime of
violence. If the presumption warrants conviction unless
the defendant comes forward with evidence in explanation and if, as is necessarily true, such evidence must be
credited by the jury if the presumption is to be rebutted,
the defendant is under the handicap, if he takes the witness stand, of admitting prior convictions of violent
crimes. His evidence as to acquisition of the firearm or
ammunition is thus discredited in the eyes of the jury
before it is given.
Although the Government recognizes that the authorities cited in Note 9 announce the rule by which the validity of the Act is to be tested, it relies on certain other
decisions as supporting the legislation. We think that
what was decided in those cases was not a departure from
the rule and that they are distinguishable from the instant
cases.
In Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585, a state statute
made it an -offense "knowingly" to possess policy slips and
provided that possession should be presumptive evidence
"of possession thereof knowingly." The statutory presumption was sustained. Accidental and innocent possession of such a paper would be extraordinary and unusual
and the statutory presumption was hardly needed to
justify a jury in inferring knowledge of the character of
the policy slip by one found in possession of it.
In Hawes v. Georgia, 258 U. S. 1, the statutory offense
was that of knowingly permitting a still upon the defendant's premises. The statute provided that when distilling
apparatus was found on the premises this should be
13

Morrison v. California, supra, 94, 96.

TOT v. UNITED STATES.
463

Opinion of the Court.

prima facie evidence that the person in actual possession
had knowledge of its existence. The defendant's premises
were a farm on which a still was found. This court sustained the presumption. The inference so accorded with
common experience that a statutory provision scarcely.
was necessary to shift the burden of proof.
In Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, an Act
of Congress was involved which required every Chinese
alien within one year to procure from the Collector of Internal Revenue a certificate of residence and made it the
duty of such alien to produce the certificate on request.
Any officer was authorized to arrest a Chinese alien failing
to produce the certificate on request and to hold him for
deportation. The Act placed on the alien the burden of
proving at the deportation hearing his residence and of
excusing his failure to procure a certificate. Failure to
have in his possession the certificate the law required him
to have gave rise to a-natural inference of intentional
failure to procure it or unlawful residence in the country
which precluded his procuring it. In such a situation
the shifting to the alien of the burden of explanation
imposed no unreasonable hardship upon him.
In Yee Hem v. United States, 268 U. S. 178, it appeared
that an Act of Congress prohibited importation of opium
except under Treasury regulations and the latter forbade
importation of smoking opium. The statute made it an
offense knowingly to conceal opium illegally imported and
threw upon a defendant found in possession of smoking
opium the burden of showing that he had not acquired it
through illegal importation. This court sustained the
presumption on the ground that no lawful purchase of
smoking opium could occur in this country and that,
therefore, possession gave rise to sinister implications.
It concluded it was not unreasonable to create a presumption of unlawful importation as the source of the commodity the possession of which the defendant concealed.

472

OCTOBER TERM, i942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

In Casey v. United States, 276 U. S. 413, the offenses
created by Act of Congress were the purchase or sale of
morphine from packages not stamped with an Internal
Revenue tax stamp. The defendant was charged with a
purchase from such a package. The evidence showed
that he dispensed the drug in clandestine fashion and not
from a stamped package. In these circumstances, this
court held that the presumption created by the statute that
a sale of morphine from an unstamped package should be
prima facie evidence of a similar purchase was not unreasonable or beyond the realm of common experience.
The Government seeks to sustain the statute on an alternative ground. It urges that Congress, in view of the
interstate commerce in firearms, might, in order to regulate it, have prohibited the possession of all firearms by
persons heretofore convicted of crimes of violence; that, as
the power of Congress extends so far, the presumption
that acquisition was in interstate commerce is the lesser
exertion of legislative power and may be upheld' Two
considerations render the argument inadmissible. First,
it will not serve to sustain the presumption of acquisition
after the effective date of the Act, and secondly, it is plain
that Congress, for whatever reason, did not seek to pronounce general prohibition of possession by certain residents of the various states of firearms in order to protect
interstate commerce, but dealt only with their future acquisition in interstate commerce. The judgment in No.
569 is reversed and that in No. 636 is affirmed.
No. 569, reversed.
No. 636, affirmed.
MR. JusTIm MuRPHY

took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.
1, See Ferry v. Ramsey,

277 U. S. 88.

TOT v. UNITED STATES.
463

BLmcx, J., concurring.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

concurs, concurring:
I agree that the mere possession of a pistol coupled
with conviction of a prior crime is no evidence at all that
the possessor of the pistol has acquired it in interstate
commerce or obtained it since the effective date of the
Act under consideration. The Act authorizes, and in
effect constrains, juries to convict defendants charged
with violation of this statute even though no evidence
whatever has been offered which tends to prove an essential ingredient of the offense. The procedural safeguards
found in the Constitution and in the Bill of Rights,
Chambersv. Florida,309 U. S. 227, 237, stand as a constitutional barrier against thus obtaining a conviction, ibid.,
235-238. These constitutional provisions contemplate
that a jury must determine guilt or innocence in a public
trial in which the defendant is confronted with the witnesses against him and in which he enjoys the assistance
of counsel; and where guilt is in issue, a verdict against
a defendant must be preceded by the introduction of some
evidence which tends to prove the elements of the crime
charged. Compliance with these constitutional provisions, which of course constitute the supreme law of the
land, is essential to due process of law, and a conviction
obtained without their observance cannot be sustained.
It is unnecessary to consider whether this statute, which
puts the defendant against whom no evidence of guilt has
been offered in a procedural situation from which he can
escape conviction only by testifying, compels him to give
evidence against himself in violation of the Fifth
Amendment.

