OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

BAILEY, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. CENTRAL VERMONT RAILWAY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF VERMONT.

No. 640.

Argued April 13, 1943.-Decided May 24, 1943.

In this suit under the Federal Employers Liability Act, brought in
a state court against a carrier to recover damages for the death
of an employee, the evidence was sufficient to go to the jury on
the question whether, as alleged in the complaint, the defendant
was negligent in failing to use reasonable care to furnish the employee a safe place to work. P. 354.
113 Vt. 8, 28 A. 2d 639, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 751, to review the reversal of a
judgment upon a verdict for the plaintiff in a suit under
the Federal Employers Liability Act.

Mr. Joseph A. McNamara, with whom Messrs. Robert
W. Larrow and T. Tracy Lawson were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Horace H. Powers for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought under the Federal Employers
Liability Act (45 U. S. C. ยง 51) in the state courts of Vermont to recover damages for the death of Bernard E.
Bailey, one of respondent's employees. At the close of all
the evidence respondent moved for a directed verdict.
The court denied the motion and submitted the case to
the jury which returned a verdict for petitioner. On
appeal the Supreme Court of Vermont reversed, by a
divided vote, holding that the motion for a directed verdict
should have been granted because negligence was not
shown. 113 Vt. 8, 28 A. 2d 639. The case is here on
certiorari.

BAILEY v. CENTRAL VERMONT RY.
350

351.

Opinion of the Court.

Bailey had worked for respondent as a sectionman for
about five years. On the day in question-May 14,
1940-he went to work on a work train to a point on the
road in Williston, Vt., where he and other members 6f the
crew unloaded track material to be used on the roadbed.
Instructions were then received to ufiload a car filled with
cinders. The evidence of the accident viewed in a light
favorable to petitioner was as follows:
The car was pulled onto a bridge over a cattle pass so
that the cinders could be dumped through the ties in the
bridge floor onto the roadway below. The floor of the
bridge was about 18 feet above the ground. The only
available footing at the side of the car was about 12 inches
wide. Of this space 8 or 9 inches were taken up by a
raised stringer, i. e., a timber which lay across the ties
and was set in 3 or 4 inches from their ends. There was
no guard rail. The cinders to be unloaded were in a hopper car. That type of car has doors in the floor which are
closed by a chain which winds up on a shaft running crossways of the car. The doors are opened from the side by
one man turning a nut on the end of the shaft while another disengages from a ratchet a dog which holds the
shaft. A wrench is applied to the nut at the end of the
shaft, the operator pulls its handle back to relieve the tension on the dog, the other person releases the dog, the operator of the wrench pushes back on it to open the hopper,
and the weight of the material in the car opens the
doors. When the hopper starts to open, the shaft spins,
and the operator must disengage the wrench or let go of
it, lest he be thrown off balance or knocked down. The
wrench used by Bailey was a heavy frog wrench--open
jaws and a handle about three feet long. It had been used
for many years for that purpose and no one had been
injured by it. Bailey certainly was unskilled and perhaps
unfamiliar in the opening of hopper cars. No one had
ever seen him open one. Such an operation was usually

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

performed by men older in point of service. Bailey had
been present on a few occasions when hopper cars were
unloaded but usually he was on top of the car at the time.
Cinders were dumped at this bridge about once a year. As
Bailey walked out on the stringer on the bridge and put
the wrench on the nut, the section foreman said, "Be careful the wrench doesn't catch you." Bailey at once pushed
on the wrench but the hopper did not open; he gave another push on the wrench, the hopper opened, the nut
spun, and Bailey was thrown by the wrench into the roadway below. The hopper car could have been opened
before it was moved onto the bridge and any cinders which
spilled on the roadbed shoveled onto the roadway beneath
the bridge. Or after the cinders had been dumped upon
the roadbed a railroad tie could have been utilized as a
drag to push cinders from the roadbed to the ground
below the bridge.
Bailey died frG-m the injuries resulting from the fall.
There was in our view sufficient evidence to go to the
jury on the question whether, as alleged in the complaint,
respondent was negligent in failing to use reasonable care
in furnishing Bailey with a safe place to do the work.
Sec. 1 of the Act makes the carrier liable in damages for
any injury or death "resulting in whole or in part from the
negligence" of any of its "officers, agents, or employees."
The rights which the Act creates are federal rights protected by federal rather than local rules of law. Second
Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; SeaboardAir Line
Ry. v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v.
Kuhn, 284 U. S. 44. And those federal rules have been
largely fashioned from the common law (Seaboard Air
Line Ry. v. Horton,supra) except as Congress has written
into the Act different standards. Tiller v. Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co., 318 U. S. 54. At common law the duty of the
employer to use reasonable care in furnishing his employees with a safe place to work was plain. 3 Labatt,

BAILEY v. CENTRAL VERMONT RY.
350

353

Opinion of the Court.

Master & Servant (2d ed.) ยง 917. That rule is deeply engrained in federal jurisprudence. Pattonv. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 179 U. S. 658, 664, and cases cited; Kreigh v.
Westinghouse & Co., 214 U. S. 249, 256, 257; Kenmont
Coal Co. v. Patton, 268 F. 334, 336. As stated by this
Court in the Pattoncase, it is a duty which becomes "more
imperative" as the risk increases. "Reasonable care becomes then a demand of higher supremacy, and yet in all
cases it is a question of the reasonableness of the carereasonableness depending upon the danger attending the
place or the machinery." 179 U. S. p. 664. It is that rule
which obtains under the Employers Liability Act. See
Coal & Coke Ry. Co. v. Deal, 231 F. 604; Northwestern
Pacific R. Co. v. Fiedler, 52 F. 2d 400; Thomson'v. Boles,
123 F. 2d 487; 2 Roberts, Federal Liabilities of Carriers
(2d ed.) ยง 807. That duty of the carrier is a "continuing
one" (Kreigh v. Westinghouse & Co., supra,p. 256) from
which the carrier is not relieved by the fact that the employee's work at the place in question is fleeting or infrequent.
The nature of the task which Bailey undertook, the
hazards which it entailed, the effort which it required, the
kind of footing he had, the space in which he could stand,
the absence of a guard rail, the height of the bridge above
the ground, the fact that the car could have been opened or
unloaded near the bridge on level ground-all these were
facts and circumstances for the jury to weigh and appraise
in determining whether respondent in furnishing Bailey
with that particular place in which to perform the task was
negligent. The debatable quality of that issue, the fact
that fair-minded men might reach different conclusions,
emphasize the appropriateness of leaving the question to
the jury. The jury is the tribunal under our legal system
to decide that type of issue (Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line
R. Co., supra) as well as issues involving controverted evidence. Jones v. East Tennessee, V. & G. R. Co., 128 U. S.

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of Rozars, J.

319 U. S.

443, 445; Washington & Georgetown R. Co. v. McDade,
135 U. S. 554, 572. To withdraw such a question from
the jury is to usurp its functions.
The right to trial by jury is "a basic and fundamental
feature of our system of federal jurisprudence." Jacob v.
New York City, 315 U. S. 752. It is part and parcel of the
remedy afforded railroad workers under the Employers
Liability Act. Reasonable care and cause and effect are as
elusive here as in other fields. But the jury has been
chosen as the appropriate tribunal to apply those standards to the facts of these personal injuries. That method
of determining the liability of the carriers and of placing
on them the cost of these industrial accidents may be
crude, archaic, and expensive as compared with the more
modern systems of workmen's compensation. But however inefficient and backward it may be, it is the system
which Congress has provided. To deprive these workers
of the benefit of a jury trial in close or doubtful cases is to
take away a goodly portion of the relief which Congress
has afforded them.
Since the evidence of respondent's negligence in failing
to provide Bailey with a safe place to work is sufficieht to
support the verdict of the jury and the judgment of the
trial court, we do not reach the other issues which have
been presented by petitioner.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I am of opinion that this case is one of a type not intended by Congress to be brought to this court for review.
Actions under the Federal Employers Liability Act constitute but one category of the great total of actions triable in
federal district courts and in the courts of the forty-eight
states which may come to this court. While the legal
principles binding alike on court and jury in such actions
are, for the most part, settled, the complexes of fact to

BAILEY v. CENTRAL VERMONT RY.
350

355

Opinion of RoBirrs, J.

which these principles are applicable rarely are identical
in any two litigations. If, in every case where, peradventure, this court might differ from a lower court in
appraising the legal effect of the proofs adduced by plaintiff or defendant, we independently review the facts to
determine whether there was evidence for a jury's consideration, we shall reverse a course founded in over fifty
years of history.
While a litigant has no constitutional right of.appellate
review, Congress has seen fit to grant it. And, until 1891,
this court was, with negligible exceptions, the only instrument of such review. The increasing volume of our appellate work bade fair to render the court incompetent to
give needed consideration to important cases which the
public interest required that it decide. To preserve the
privilege of appellate review, and to provide an appellate
tribunal where most federal litigation should end without
resort of this court, Congress created the Circuit Courts
of Appeals.' The relief thus afforded this court prevented
the substantial break-down of our appellate function.
But the relief proved insufficient, and Congress continued
to adopt means to render it possible for us to do the indispensable work of the court. In 1915 it made the judgments of Circuit Courts of Appeals final in certain classes
of cases arising in Puerto Rico and Hawaii, and also in
bankruptcy cases, subject, as to the latter, to our discretionary power to take cases involving important questions.! The House Committee in its report said as to
the objects of the-bill:'
"Relieving the Supreme Court of the United States from
the necessity of reviewing such cases from the Supreme
Courts of Porto Rico and Hawaii as involve no Federal
question, but depend entirely upon the local or general
I Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826.
2Act of January 28, 1915, 38 Stat. 803.
3 H. Rep. No. 1182, 63d Cong., 2d Sess.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of

RoBERTs,

J.

319 U.S.

law. Under the law as it now stands the decisions of the
Supreme Courts of Porto Rico and Hawaii are reviewable
by the Supreme Court of the United States not only when
some Federal right is in controversy, but also in all cases
which involve more than $5,000, without respect to the
character of the questions involved. This section as
amended includes Porto Rico with Hawaii and continues
the existing right to review in the Supreme Court when
Federal rights are in controversy, but leaves all other cases
to be dealt with upon a petition for a writ of certiorari, as
is now the law with respect to most of the cases in the circuit court of appeals."
The great mass of litigation in state and federal courts
arising under the Employers Liability Act and railway
safety appliance legislation still could be brought to this
court as of right under existing law.' In 1916 Congress
abolished the right and made the judgments of state appellate courts and Circuit Courts of Appeals final in this
class of cases, subject to our discretionary review,' The
Senate Committee report on the bill was entitled "Relief
of the Supreme Court," and to it was appended a memorandum prepared by the clerk of this court exhibiting the
congested state of our docket." Finally, in1925, Congress
dealt in the same fashion with all litigation sought to be
brought here for review from state and federal tribunals,
save for certain narrowly restricted classes.7
Without the benefit of this restriction of its obligatory
jurisdiction this court could not have attained the end and
aim of its creation. But there remains the constant
danger that, by taking cases lying outside defined areas
Southern Ry.Co. v. Crockett, 234 1J.
S. 725.
Act of Sept. 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, ยง 3. See Andrews v. Virginian Ry. Co., 248 U. S.272.
6*S. Rep. No. 775, 64th Cong., 1st Sess. See also the House Report
No. 794, 64th Cong., 1st Sess.
7Act of February 13, 1925, 43 Stat. 936.
8

BAILEY v. CENTRAL VERMONT RY.
350

357

Opinion of Ronmrs, J.

ofU importance, the court will limit its ability adequately to deal with those which all will agree it must
adjudicate.
And so the policy of the court has been to abstain from
taking a case even though it thought it erroneously decided below, whether on an issue of law or fact, if the
decision did not involve an important question of law,
did not create a diversity of decision in lower courts, or
would not seriously affect the administration of the law
in other cases. And this has been especially so where a
decision below recognized the controlling legal principles
but was claimed to have applied them improperly to the
specific facts disclosed. The instant case plainly belongs
in the class last mentioned. All members of the Supreme
Court of Vermont agreed upon the controllifig legal rule.
They sharply and almost evenly divided on the question
whether the plaintiff's evidence brought her case within
that rule. What they decided, and what we decide, can
add nothing to the body of jurisprudence. And it is irrelevant to the question of our exercise of the power of
review that if we had been charged with the responsibility
of a trial judge or a member of the court below, we might
have held the case one for submission to a jury.
In almost every litigation, the parties are afforded hearings in at least two courts. This was true here, the appellate court being the supreme court of the state of the parties' residence. If, in such a case, we accord a third hearing, whenever we should have applied the law differently,
we shall have little time or opportunity to do aught else
than examine the claims of plaintiffs and defendants that,
in the special circumstances disclosed, prejudicial errors
have been committed in the admission of evidence, in rulings of law, and in charges to juries.
There is no reason why a preference should be given, in
these respects, to actions instituted under the Federal
Employers Liability Act, over others founded on other

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of SToNE, C. J.

319 U. S.

federal statutes, over contract cases, or admiralty cases,
where a failure properly to rule on the facts is asserted to
have wrought injury to one of the parties.'
It seems to be thought, however, that any ruling which
takes a case from the jury, albeit it will not serve as a precedent, is of such paramount importance as to require review here. I merely state my conviction that the Seventh Amendment envisages trial not by jury, but by court
and jury, according to the view of the common law, and
that federal and state courts have not usurped power denied them by the fundamental law in directing verdicts
where a party failed to adduce proof to support his contention, or in entering judgment notwithstanding a verdict for like reason. But this I do say, that this court does
not sit to redress every apparent error committed by competent and responsible courts whose judgments we are empowered to review. And, if we undertake any such task,
we shall disenable the court to fulfill its high office in the
scheme of our government.
Finally, I cannot concur in the intimation, which I
think the opinion gives, that, as Congress has seen fit not
to enact a workmen's compensation law, this court will
strain the law of negligence to accord compensation where
the employer is without fault. I yield to none in my belief in the wisdom and equity of workmen's compensation
laws, but I do not conceive it to be within our judicial
function to write the policy which underlies compensation laws into acts of Congress when Congress has not
chosen that policy but, instead, has adopted the common
law doctrine of negligence.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

joins in this opinion.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE:

I agree with MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS that the present case
is not an appropriate one for the exercise of our discretion8 See the dissent in Deputy v. Du Pont, 308 U. S. 488, 499.

ALTVATER v. FREEMAN.
350

Counsel for Parties.

ary power to afford a second appellate review of the state
court judgment by writ of certiorari. But as we have
adhered to our long standing practice of granting certiorari upon the affirmative vote of four Justices, the
case is properly here for decision and is, I think, correctly
decided.

ALTVATER

ET AL.

v. FREEMAN

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 696. Argued April 19, 1943.-Decided May 24, 1943.
1. The issue of validity may be raised by a counterclaim in a suit
.for infringement of a patent. P. 363.
2. The requirements as to the existence of a case or controversy in
suits in the federal coarts are no less strict in suits under the
Declaratory Judgments Act than in others. P. 363.
3. The requirements as to the existence of a case or controversy are
met where payment of a claim is demanded as of right and payment is made, but where a right to recover the amount paid or to
challenge the legality of the claim is preserved by the coercive nature
of the exaction. P. 365.
4. Although the decision of non-infringement of the patent disposed
of the bill and answer in this suit, it did not dispose of the counterclaim, which raised the question of the validity of the patent; and
the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in treating the issues raised by
the counterclaim as moot. Pp. 363, 365.
130 F. 2d 763, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 750, to review a decree which
modified and affirmed a decree dismissing the bill and
granting the prayer of a counterclaim in a patent case.

Messrs. Edmund C. Rogers and Lawrence C. Kingsland for petitioners.
Mr. Marston Allen for respondents.

