MARTIN v. STRUTHERS.
Opinion of the Court.

MARTIN v. CITY OF STRUTHERS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 238. Argued March 11, 1943.-Decided May 3, 1943.
A municipal ordinance forbidding any person to knock on doors, ring
doorbells, or otherwise summon to the door the occupants of any
residence for the purpose of distributing to them handbills or circulars, held-as applied to a person distributing advertisements for a
religious meeting-invalid under the Federal Constitution as a denial
of freedom of speech and press. Pp. 142, 149.
139 Ohio St. 372, 40 N. E. 2d 154, reversed.
APPEAL from the dismissal of an appeal from a judgment affirming.a conviction for violation of a municipal
r
ordinance.

Mr. Hayden C. Covington, with whom Mr. Victor F.
Schmidt was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. David C. Haynes and T. T. Macejko for appellee.
Miss Dorothy Kenyon filed a brief on behalf of the
American Civil Liberties Union, as amicus curiae, urging
reversal.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

For centuries it has been a common practice in this and
other countries for persons not specifically invited to go
from home to home and knock on doors or ring doorbells to communicate ideas to the occupants or to invite
them to political, religious, or other kinds of public meetings. Whether such visiting shall be permitted has in
general been deemed to depend upon the will of the individual master of each household, and not upon the determination of the community. In the instant case, the
City of Struthers, Ohio, has attempted to make this decision for all its inhabitants. The question to be decided
is whether the City, consistently with the federal Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

stitution's guarantee of free speech and press, possesses
this power."
The appellant, espousing a religious cause in which she
was interested-that of the Jehovah's Witnesses-went
to the homes of strangers, knocking on doors and ringing
doorbells in order to distribute to the inmates of the
homes leaflets advertising a religious meeting. In doing
so, she proceeded in a conventional and orderly fashion.
For delivering a leaflet to the inmate of a home, she was
convicted in the Mayor's Court and was fined $10.00 on
a charge of violating the following City ordinance:
"It is unlawful for any person distributing handbills,
circulars or other advertisements to ring the door bell,
sound the door knocker, or otherwise summon the inmate
or inmates of any residence to the door for the purpose of
receiving such handbills, circulars or other advertisements
they or any person with them may be distributing."
The appellant admitted knocking at the door for the
purpose of delivering the invitation, but seasonably urged
in the lower Ohio state court that the ordinance as construed. and applied was beyond the power of the State
because in violation of the right of freedom of press and
religion as guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth
Amendments.'
'This ordinance was not directed solely at commercial advertisingCf. Valentine v. Chrestensen, 316 U. S. 52; Green River v. Fq4lit
Brush Co., 65 F. 2d 112. Compare for possible different results under
state constitutions Prior v. White, 132 Fla. 1, 180 So. 347; Orangeburg v. Farmer,181 S. C. 143, 186 S. E. 783.
2The appellant's judgment of conviction was appealed to the Su.
preme Court of Ohio which dismissed the appeal on the stated ground
that: "No debatable constitutional question is involved." 139 Ohio

St. 372, 40 N. E. 2d 154. We at first dismissed the appeal, thinking

that the Supreme Court of Ohio meant that no constitutional question
had been properly raised in accordance with Ohio procedure. Upon
reconsideration we concluded that, since a constitutional question had
been presented in the lower state court, the language of the Order of

MARTIN v. STRUTHERS.
141

Opinion of the Court.

The right of freedom of speech and press has broad
scope. The authors of the First Amendment knew that
novel and unconventional ideas might disturb the complacent, but they chose to encourage a freedom which
they believed essential if vigorous enlightenment was ever
to triumph over slothful ignorance.8 This freedom embraces the right to distribute literature, Lovell v. Griffin,
30a U. S. 444, 452, and necessarily protects the right to
receive it. The privilege may not be withdrawn evein
if it creates the minor nuisance for a community of cleaning litter from its streets. Schneider v. State, 308 U. S.
147, 162. Yet the peace, good order, and comfort of the
community may imperatively require regulation of the
time, place and mariner of distribution. Cantwell v.
Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 304. No one supposes, for
example, that a city need permit a man with a communicable disease to distribute leaflets on the street or to
homes, or that the First Amendment prohibits a state
from preventing the distribution of leaflets in a church
against the will of the church authorities.
We are faced in the instant case with the necessity of
weighing the conflicting interests of the appellant in the
civil rights she claims, as well as the right of the individual, householder to determine whether he is willing to receive her message, against the interest of the community
which by this ordinance offers to protect the interests of
all of its citizens, whether particular citizens want that
protection or not. The ordinance does not control anything but the distribution of literature, and in that rethe Supreme Court of Ohio should be construed as a decision upon the
constitutional
question.
8
"The only security of all is in a free press. The force of public
opinion cannot be resisted, when permitted freely to be expressed.

The agitation it produces must be submitted to. It is necessary
to keep the waters pure." Jefferson to Lafayette, Writings of Thomas
Jefferson, Washington ed., v. 7, p. 325.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

spect it substitutes the judgment of the community for
the judgment of the individual householder. It submits
the distributer to criminal punishment for annoying the
person on whom he calls, even though the recipient of the
literature distributed is in fact glad to receive it. In considering legislation which thus limits the dissemination'
of knowledge, we must "be astute to examine the effect
of the challenged legislation" and must "weigh the circumstances and . . . appraise the substantiality of the

reasons advanced in support of the regulation." Schneider
v. State, supra, 161.
Ordinances of the sort now before us may be aimed at
the protection of the householders from annoyance, including intrusion upon the hours of rest, and at the prevention of crime. Constant callers, whether selling pots
or 'distributing leaflets, may lessen the peaceful enjoyment of a home as much as a neighborhood glue factory
or railroad yard which zoning ordinances may prohibit.
In the instant case, for example, it is clear from the record that the householder to whom the appellant gave the
leaflet which led to her arrest was more irritated than
pleased with her visitor. The City, which is an industrial community most of whose residents are engaged
in the iron and steel industry," has vigorously argued that
its inhabitants frequently work on swing shifts, working
nights and sleeping days so that casual bell pushers might
seriously interfere with the hours of sleep although they
call at high noon. In addition, burglars frequently pose
as canvassers, either in order that they may have a pretense to discover whether a house is empty and hence ripe
for burglary, or for the purpose of spying out the premises in order that they may return later.' Crime prevention may thus be the purpose of regulatory ordinances.
'16th Census, "Population-2d Series-Ohio," 133, 151.
5 For a discussion of such practices, see Soderman and O'Connell,
Modern.Criminal Investigation, chap. 13 and chap. 20; Federal Bu-

MARTIN v. STRUTHERS.
141

Opinion of the Court.

While door to door distributers of literature may be
either a nuisance or a blind for criminal activities, they
may also be useful members of society engaged in the
dissemination of ideas in accordance with the best tradition of free discussion. The widespread use of this method
of communication by many groups espousing various
causes attests its major importance. "Pamphlets have
proved most effective instruments in the dissemination
of opinion. And perhaps the most effective way of bringing them to the notice of individuals is their distribution
at the homes of the people." Schneider v. State, supra,
164. Many of our most widely established religious organizations have used this method of disseminating their
doctrines,' and laboring groups have used it in recruiting
reau of Investigation Law Enforcement Bulletin, July, 1938; 20 Public Management 83 (an analysis of the criminal records of a group
of canvassers in Winnetka, Illinois). Sacramento, California, has
rested a canvassing ordinance on crime prevention, In re Hartmann,
25 Cal. App. 2d 55, 76 P. 2d 709, and courts have been aware of this
aspect of the problem.in dealing with such ordinances. Allen v. McGovern, 12 N. J. Misc. 12, 13, 169 A. 345; Dziatkiewicz v. Maplewood,
115 N. J. L. 37, 178 A. 205.
6 Representatives of the American Tract Society, an interdenominatiohal organization engaged in colpor aVe since 1841, have visited over
twenty-five million families. Article on "American Tract Society," 1
Encyclopedia Americana (1932 ed.) 566; Annual Reports of the American Tract Society (e. g., the 116th Report, 1941, 37-38; 117th Report,
1942, pp. 37-38); Baird, Religion in America (1856), 334-340.
See also the activities of the American Bible Society. Jones, Colportage Sketches (1883); Dwight, The Centennial History of the American Bible Society (1916), 177-81, 293-95, 460; Annual Reports of
the American Bible Society (e. g., 126th Report, 1942, passim).
For the world-wide colportage activities of the British and Foreign
Bible Society, see the Society's 137th Report, 1941, passim; For Wayfaring Men (1939), 31-78; Ritson, TheWorld Is Our Parish (1939),
116-18.
This practice has been followed by many religious groups. See,
e. g., Barnes, Barnes and Stephenson, Pioneers of Light (1924), 81-

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

their members." The federal government, in its current
war bond selling campaign, encourages groups of citizens
to distribute advertisements and circulars from house to
house.8 Of course, as every person acquainted with political life knows, door to door campaigning is one of the
most accepted techniques of seeking popular support, while
the circulation of nominating papers would be greatly
handicapped if they could not be taken to the citizens in
their homes.9 Door to door distribution of circulars is
essential to the poorly financed causes of little people.
Freedom to distribute information to every citizen
wherever he desires to receive it is so clearly vital to the
104; Stevens, The First Hundred Years of the American Baptist
:Publication Society (1925), 30-32. During the fiscal year 1939-1940,
representatives of the American Baptist Publication Society visited
52,832 families. More than six million families have been visited over
a one hundred year period. Annual of Northern Baptist Convention,
1940, 671, 673; Year Book of the Northern Baptist Convention, 1942,
332-335. See for the practice of other religions, Stewart, Sheldon
Jackson (1908), 32; Goodykoontz, Home Missions on the American
Frontier (1939), 120-122; Keller, The Second Great Awakening in
Connecticut (1942), 117-121.
T
Lorwin and Flexner, The American Federation of Labor, 352;
International Ladies Garment Workers Union, Handbook of Trade
Union Methods, 10; Brooks, When Labor Organizes, chap. 1 ("Organizing a Union").
8"Women's Handbook," pp. 22 and 63, a publication of the Women's Section of the War Savings Staff of the Department of the Treasury; The Home Front Journal, April, 1943, p. 1, a publication of the
same group; "A Program of Action for Clubs," p. 3, a publication of
the Department of the Treasury. Presumably a citizen of Struthers
distributing to homes the pamphlets recommended in "A Program
of Action" would violate the City's ordinance.
0Merriam and Gosnell, The American Party System, 317 (The
Canvass); Bruce, American Parties and Politics, 407; Ostogoskii,
Democracy, 153-155, 453; Pierson, In the Brush, 142 (politics in the
old Southwest); Barnes, The Antislavery Impulse, 137-143 (circulation of antislavery petitions). The American Politician, ed. by J. T.
Salter, 19, 235, 310, 339, and The American Political Scene, ed. by

MARTIN v. STRUTHERS.
141

Opinion of the Court.

preservation of a free society that, putting aside reasonable police and health regulations of time and manner
of distribution, it must be fully preserved. The dangers
of distribution can so easily be controlled by traditional
legal methods, leaving to each householder the full right
to decide whether he will receive strangers as visitors,
that stringent prohibition can serve no purpose but that
forbidden by the Constitution, the naked restriction of
the dissemination of ideas.
Traditionally the American law punishes persons who
enter onto the property of another after having been
warned by the owner to keep off. General trespass after
warning statutes exist in at least twenty states," while
similar statutes of narrower scope are on the books of at
least twelve states more.'
We know of no state which,
Edward Logan, 64, 150, indicate by passing references to practices in
many states the extent to which the door to door canvass is a staple of
political life.
For encouragement of this practice, see Handbook of Club Organization, National Federation of.Women's Republican Clubs (1942),
21; and Precinct Organization in War Time, a recent publication of the
Democratic National Committee.
20 Alabama Code (1940), Tit. 14, § 426; Connecticut Gen. Stat.
(1930), § 6119; Florida Stat. (1941), § 821.01; Georgia Code Ann.
(1938), § 26-3002; Illinois Ann. Stat. (Smith-Hurd, 1935), Ch. 38,
§ 565; Indiana Stat. (Burns, 1934), § 10-4506; Maryland Ann. Code
(Flack, 1939), Art. 27, §§ 24, 286; Massachusetts Ann. Laws (1933),'
v. 9, Ch. 266, § 120; Mississippi Code Ann. (1930), § 1168; Nebraska
Comp. Stat. (1929), §§ 76-807, 8; Nevada Comp. Laws (1929),
§ 10447; North Carolina Code (1943), § 14-134; Ohio Code Ann.
(Throckmorton, 1940), § 12522; Oklahoma Stat. (1937), Tit. 21,
§ 1835; Oregon Conip. Laws Ann. (1940), §§ 23-593, 4; Pennsylvania Ann. Stat. (Purdon, 1942 Supp.), v. 18, § 4954; South Carolina Code (1942), § 1190; Virginia Code (1936), § 4480a; Washington
Rev. Stat. (Remington, 1932), § 2665; Wyoming Rev. Stat. (1931),

§ 32-337.
11

Arkansas Stat. (Pope, 1937), § 3181; California Penal Code
(Deering, 1941), §§ 602, 627; Colorado Stat. Ann. (1935), v. 3, Ch.
73, § 118; Kentucky Rev. Staf. (Baldwin, 1942), §§ 433.720, 433.490;

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

as does the Struthers ordinance in effect, makes a person
a criminal trespasser if he enters the property of another
for an innocent purpose without an explicit command
from the owners to stay away.' The National Institute
of Municipal Law Officers has proposed a form of regulation to its member cities'" which would make it an offense
for any person to ring the bell of a householder who
has appropriately indicated that he is unwilling to be
disturbed. This or any similar regulation leaves the
decision as to whether distributers of literature may lawfully call at a home where it belongs--with the homeowner himself. A city can punish those who call at a
home in defiance of the previously expressed will of the
occupant and, in addition, can by identification devices
control the abuse of the privilege by criminals posing as
canvassers." In any case, the problem must be worked
Louisiana Gen. Stat. (Dart, 1939), § 9463; Maine Rev. Stat. (1930),
Ch. 139, § 22; Minnesota Stat. (1941), § 621.57; Montana Rev. Code
Ann. (1935), § 11482; New Hampshire Public Laws (1926), Ch. 380,
§ 11; New Jersey Rev. Stat. (1937), Tit. 4, § 17-2; New York Consol.
Laws Ann. (McKinney, 1941), Conservation Law, §§ 361-364; Texas
.Stat. (Vernon, 1936), P. C. Art. 1377.
12Municipalities have occasionally made canvassers trespassers
without requiring that the householder give an explicit notice, as the
instant ordinance testifies. See e. g. People v. Bohnke, 287 N. Y. 154,
38 N. E. 2d 478.
13 Municipalities and the Law in Action (1943), National Institute
of Municipal Law Officers, 373. We do not, by this reference, mean
to express any opinion on, the wisdom or validity of the particular
proposals of the Institute.
14"Nothing we have said is intended even remotely to imply that,
under the cloak of religion, persons may, with impunity, commit
frauds upon the public. Certainly penal laws are available to punish
such conduct. Even the exercise of religion may be at some slight
inconvenience in order that the State may protect its citizens from
injury. Without doubt a State may protect its citizens from fraudulent solicitation by requiring a stranger in the community, before
permitting him publicly to solicit funds for any purpose, to establish
his identity and his authority to act for the cause which he purports
to represent." Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S.296, 306.

MARTIN v. STRUTHERS.
141

MURPHY, J.,

concurring.

out by each community for itself with due respect for
the constitutional rights of those desiring to distribute
literature ind those desiring to receive it, as well as.those
who choose to exclude such distributers from the home.
The Struthers ordinance does not safeguard these constitutional rights. For this reason, and wholly aside from
any other possible defects, on which we do not pass but
which are suggested in other opinions filed in this case,
we conclude that the ordinance is invalid because in conflict with the freedom of speech and press.
The judgment below is reversed for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

concurring:

I join in the opinion of the Court, but the importance
of this and the other cases involving Jehovah's Witnesses
decided today, moves me to add this brief statement.
I believe that nothing enjoys a higher estate in our
society than the right given by the First and Fourteenth
Amendments freely to practice and proclaim one's religious convictions. Cf. Jones'v. Opelika, 316 U. S. 584 at
621. The right extends to the aggressive and disputatious
as well as to the meek and acquiescent. The lesson of
experience is that-with the passage of time and the interchange of ideas-organizations, once turbulent, perfervid and intolerant in their origin, mellow into tolerance
and acceptance by the community, or else sink into oblivion. Religious differences are often sharp and pleaders at timesresort "to exaggeration, to vilification of men
who have been, or are, prominent in church or state, and
even to false statement. But the people of this nation
have ordained in the light of history, that, in spite of the
probability of excesses and abuses, these liberties are, in.
the long view, essential to enlightened opinion and right
conduct on the part of the citizens of a democracy." Cantwell v. Con necticut, 310 U. S. 296, 310. If a religious be-

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MuRPHy, J., concurring.

319 U. S.

lief has substance, it can survive criticism, heated and
abusive though it may be, with the aid of truth and reason alone. By the same method, those who follow false
prophets are exposed. Repression has no place in this
country. It is our proud achievement to have demonstrated that unity and strength are best accomplished,
not by enforced orthodoxy of views, but by diversity of
opinion through the fullest possible measure of freedom
of conscience and thought.
Also, few, if any, believe more strongly in the maxim,
"a man's home is his castle," than I. Cf. Goldman v.
United States, 316 U. S. 129 at 136. If this principle
approaches a collision with religious freedom, there should
be an accommodation, if at all possible, which gives appropriate recognition to both. That is, if regulation
should be necessary to protect the safety and privacy of
the home, an effort should be made at the same time to
preserve the substance of religious freedom.
There can be no question but that appellant was engaged in a religious activity when she was going from
house to house in the City of Struthers distributing circulars advertising a meeting of those of her belief. Distribution of such circulars on the streets cannot be prohibited. Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S. 413. Nor can their
distribution on the streets or from house to house be conditioned upon obtaining a license which is subject to the
uncontrolled discretion of municipal officials, LovelI v.
Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147;
Largent v. Texas, 318 U. S. 418, or upon payment of a
license tax for the privilege of so doing. Murdock v.
Pennsylvania,ante, p. 105; Jones v. Opelika, ante, p. 103.
Preaching from house to house is an age-old method of
proselyting, and it must be remembered that "one is not
to have the exercise of his liberty of expression in appropriate places abridged on the plea that it may be exercised in some other place." Schneider v. State, supra,
p. 163.

MARTIN v. STRUTHERS.
141

MuRPHY, J., concurring.

No doubt there may be relevant considerations which
justify considerable regulation of door to door canvassing, even for religious purposes,--regulation as to time,
number and identification of canvassers, etc., which will
protect the privacy and safety of the home and yet preserve the substance of religious freedom. And, if a
householder does not desire visits from religious canvassers, he can make his wishes known in a suitable fashion. The fact that some regulation may be permissible,
however, does not mean that the First Amendment may
be abrogated. We are not dealing here with a statute
"narrowly drawn to cover the precise situation" that calls
for remedial action, Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88,
105; Cantwell v. Connecticut, supra, at 311. As construed by the state courts and applied to the case at bar,
the Struthers ordinance prohibits door to door canvassing
of any kind, no matter what its character and purpose
may be, if attended by the distribution of written or
printed matter in the form of a circular or pamphlet. I
do not believe that this outright prohibition is warranted.
As I understand it, the distribution of circulars and pamphlets is a relatively minor aspect of the problem. The
primary concern is with the act of canvassing as a source
of inconvenience and annoyance to householders. But
if the city can prohibit canvassing for the purpose of distributing religious pamphlets, it can also outlaw the door
to door solicitations of religious charities, or the activities
of the holy mendicant who begs alms from house to house
to serve the material wants of his fellowmen and thus obtain spiritual comfort for his own soul.
Prohibition may be more convenient to the law maker,
and easier to fashion than a regulatory measure which
adequately protects the peace and privacy of the home
without suppressing legitimate religious activities. But
that does not justify a repressive enactment like the one
now before us. Cf. Schneider v. State, supra, p. 164.
Freedom of religion has a higher dignity under the Con-

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

dissenting.

319 U. S.

stitution than municipal or personal convenience. In
these days, free men have no loftier responsibility than the
preservation of that freedom. A nation dedicated to that
ideal will not suffer but will prosper in its observance.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join
in this opinion.
MR. JUSTIcE FRANKFURTER:

From generation to generation, fresh vindication is
given to the prophetic wisdom of the framers of the Constitution in casting it in terms so broad that it has adaptable vitality for the drastic changes in our society which
they knew to be inevitable, even though they could not
foresee them. Thus it has come to be that the transforminkconsequences resulting from the pervasive industrialization of life find the Commerce Clause appropriate, for
instance for national regulation of an aircraft flight wholly
within a single state. Such exertion of power by the national government over what might seem a purely local
transaction would, as a matter of abstract law, have been
as unimaginable to Marshall as to Jefferson, precisely because neither could have foreseen the present conquest of
the air by man. -But law, whether derived from acts of
Congress or the Constitution, is not an abstraction. The
Constitution cannot be applied in disregard of the external circumstances in which men live and move and have
their being. Therefore, neither the First nor the Fourteenth Amendment is to be treated by judges as though it
were a mathematical abstraction, an absolute having no
relation to the lives of men.
The habits and security of life in sparsely settled rural
communities, or even in those few cities which a hundred
and fifty years ago had a population of a few thousand,
cannot be made the basis of judgment for determining the
area of allowable self-protection by present-day industrial communities. The lack of privacy and the hazards

MARTIN v. STRUTHERS.
141

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

to peace of mind and body caused by people living not in
individual houses but crowded together in large human
beehives, as they so widely do, are facts of modern living
which cannot be ignored.
Concededly, the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment did not abrogate the power of the states to
recognize that homes are sAnctuaries from intrusions upon
privacy and of opportunities for leading lives of health
and safety. Door-knocking and bell-ringing by professed
peddlers of things or ideas may therefore be confined
within specified hours and otherwise circumscribed so as
not to sanctify the rights of these peddlers in disregard of
the rights of those within doors. Acknowledgement is
also made that the City of Struthers, the particular ordinance of which presents the immediate issue before us, is
one of those industrial communities the residents of which
have a working day consisting of twenty-four hours, so
that for some portions of the city's inhabitants opportunities for sleep and refreshment require during day as well
as night whatever peace and quiet is obtainable in a
modern industrial town. It is further recognized that
the modern multiple residences give opportunities for
pseudo-canvassers to ply evil trades-dangers to the community pursued by the few but far-reaching in their success and in the fears they arouse.
The Court's opinion apparently recognizes these factors
as legitimate concerns for regulation by those whose business it is to legislate. But it finds, if I interpret correctly
what is wanting in explicitness, that instead of aiming at
the protection of householders from intrusion upon needed
hours of rest or from those plying evil trades, whether
pretending the sale of pots and pans or the distribution
of leaflets, the ordinance before us merely penalizes the
distribution of "literature." To be sure, the prohibition
of this ordinance is within a small circle. But it is not
our business to require legislatures to extend the area

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
REED, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

of prohibition or regulation beyond the demands of revealed abuses. And the greatest leeway must be given
to the legislative judgment of what those demands are.
The right to legislate implies the right to classify. We
should not, however unwittingly, slip into the judgment
seat of legislatures. I myself cannot say that those in
whose keeping is the peace of the City of Struthers and
the right of privacy of its home dwellers could not single
out, in circumstances of which they may have knowledge
and I certainly have not, this class of canvassers as
the particular source of mischief. The Court's opinion
leaves one in doubt whether prohibition of all bell-ringing
and door-knocking would be deemed an infringement
of the constitutional protection of speech. It would be
fantastic to suggest that a city has power, in the circumstances of modern urban life, to forbid house-to-house
canvassing generally, but that the Constitution prohibits
the inclusion in such prohibition of door-to-door vending
of phylacteries or rosaries or of any printed matter. If
the scope of the Court's opinion, apart from some of its
general observations, is that this ordinance is an invidious
discrimination against distributors of what is politely
called literature, and therefore is deemed an unjustifiable
prohibition of freedom of utterance, the decision leaves
untouched what are in my view controlling constitutional
principles, if I am correct in my understanding of what is
held, and I would not be disposed to disagree with such a
construction of the ordinance.
MR. JUSTICE REED,

dissenting:

While I appreciate the necessity of watchfulness to
avoid abridgments of our freedom of expression, it is impossible for me to discover in this trivial town police regulation a violation of the First Amendment. No ideas
are being suppressed. No censorship is involved. The
freedom to teach or preach by word or book is unabridged,
save only the right to call a householder to the door of

MARTIN v. STRUTHERS.
141

155.

REED, J., dissenting.

his house to receive the summoner's message. I cannot
expand this regulation to a violation of the First
Amendment.
Freedom to distribute publications.is obviously a part
of the general freedom guaranteed the expression of ideas
by the First Amendment. It is trite to say that this freedom of expression is not unlimited.' Obscenity, disloyalty and provocatives do not come within its protection.
Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 712, 716; Schenck v.
United States, 249 U. S. 47, 51; Chaplinsky v. New
Hampshire,315 U. S. 568, 572, 574. All agree that there
may be reasonable regulation of the freedom of expression. Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 304. One
cannot throw dodgers "broadcast in the streets."
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 161.
The ordinance forbids "any person distributing handbills, circulars or other advertisements to ring the door
bell, sound the door knocker, or otherwise summon the
inmate or inmates . . . to the door" to receive the advertisement. The Court's opinion speaks of prohibitions against the distribution of "literature." The. precise matter distributed appears in the footnote.1 I do not
"RELIGION as

Hear

a WoRm REME-Y, The Evidence in Support Thereof.
Sunday, July 28, 4 P. M., E. S. T. FREE.

JUDGE RUTHERFORD,

All Persons of Goodwill Welcome, FREE. Columbus Coliseum, Ohio
State Fair Grounds." [On one side.]
"1940's Event of Paramount Importance To You! What is it?

The THEOCRATIC

CONVENTION OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES.

Five Days-

July 24-28--Thirty Cities. All Lovers of Righteousness-Welcomel
The strange fate threatening all 'Christendom' makes it imperative
that you CoME and HEAR the public address on RELIGION As A WORLD
R.EMEDY, The Evidence in Support Thereof, by Judge Rutherford at

the COLiSEUM of the OHIO STATE FAIR GROUNDS, Columbus, Ohio,
Sunday, July 28, at 4 p. m., E. S. T. 'He that hath an ear to hear'
will come to one of the auditoriums of the convention cities listed
below, tied in with Columbus by direct wire. Some of the 30 cities
For detailed information concerning these con-

are [21 are listed].

ventions write

WATCHTOWER CONVENTION

St., Brooklyn, N. Y."
531559-44-

14

[On the other side.]

COfMIrEE,

117 Adams

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
REED, J.,

dissenting.

319 U. S.

read the ordinance as prohibiting the distribution of literature nor can I appraise the dodger distributed as falling into that classification.

If the ordinance, in my view,

did prohibit the distribution of literature, while permitting all other canvassing, I should believe such an ordinance discriminatory. This ordinance is different. The
most, it seems to me, that can be or has been read into the
ordinance is a prohibition of free distribution of printed
matter by summoning inmates to their doors. There are
excellent reasons to support a determination of the city
council that such distributors may not disturb householders while permitting salesmen and others to call them to
the door. Practical experience may well convince the
council that irritations arise frequently from this
method of advertising. The classification is certainly not
discriminatory 2
If the citizens of Struthers desire to be protected from
the annoyance of being called to their doors to receive
printed matter, there is to my mind no constitutional provision which forbids their municipal council from modifying the rule that anyone may sound a call for the householder to attend his door. It is the council which is entrusted by the citizens with the power to declare and
abate the myriad nuisances which develop in a community. Its determination should not be set aside by this
Court unless clearly and patently unconstitutional.
The antiquity and prevalence of colportage are relied
on to support the Court's decision. But the practice has
persisted because the householder was acquiescent. It
can hardly be thought, however, that long indulgence of
a practice which many or all citizens have welcomed or
tolerated creates a constitutional right to its continuance.
2Keokee Coke Co.

v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224; German Alliance In-

surance Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389; Hall v. Geiger-Jones Co., 242
U. S. 539; Minnesota v. Probate Court, 309 U. S. 270; Labar Board
v. Jones & Laughlin Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 46; Carmichael v. Southern
Coal Co., 301 U.S. 495, 509, 512.

DOUGLAS v. JEANNETTE.
141

157

Syllabus.

Changing conditions have begotten modification by law
of many practices once deemed a part of the individual's
liberty.
The First Amendment does notcompMa pedestrian
to pause on the street to listen to the argument supporting another's views of religion or politics. Once the door
is opened, the visitor may not insert a foot and insist on
a hearing. He certainly may not enter the home. To
knock or ring, however, comes close to such invasions.
To prohibit such a call leaves open distribution of the
notice on the street or at the home without signal to announce its deposit. Such assurance of privacy falls far
short of an abridgment of freedom of the press. The
ordinance seems a fair adjustment of the privilege of distributors and the rights of householders.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join

in this dissent.
See also opinion of MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, po8t, p. 166.

DOUGLAS

ET AL.

v. CITY OF JEANNETTE ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF AIPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT..

No. 450. Argued March 10, 11, 1943.-Decided May 3, 1943.
1. Members of Jehovah's Witnesses, in their own behalf and in behalf
of all other Jehovah's Witnesses in the State and in adjoining States,
broughtsuit in a federal District Court to restrain a city and its
mayor from enforcing against them an ordinance prohibiting the
solicitation of orders for merchandise without first procuring a
license from the city authorities and paying a license tax. The complaint, prayihg equitable relief, alleged, in substance, that the
defendants, by arrest, detention and criminal prosecution of the complainants and other Jehovah's Witnesses, had subjected them to
deprivation of their rights of freedom of speech, press and religion;
and that the defendants threaten to continue to enforce the ordinance
by arrests and prosecutions.. The suit was not based nor maintainable
on the ground of diversity of citizenship, but was alleged to arise

