MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Syllabus.

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA (CITY OF
JEANNETTE) .*
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 480. Argued March 10, 11, 1943.-Decided May 3, 1943.
1. A municipal ordinance which, as construed and applied, requires
religious colporteurs to pay a license tax as a condition to the pursuit of their activities, is invalid under the Federal Constitution as
a denial of freedom of speech, press and religion. Pp. 108-110.
2. The mere fact that the religious literature is "sold" rather than
"donated" does not transform the activities of the colporteur into
a commercial enterprise. P. 111.
3. Upon 'the record in these cases, it can not be said that "Jehovah's
Witnesses" were engaged in a commercial rather than in a religious
yenture. P. 111.
4. A State may not impose a charge for the enjoyment of a right
granted by the Federal Constitution. P. 113.
5. The flat license tax here involved restrains in advance the Constitutional liberties of press and religion and inevitably' tends to suppress their exercise. P. 114.
6. That the ordinance is "nondiscriminatory," in that it applies also
to peddlers of wares and merchandise, is immaterial. The liberties
guaranteed by the First Amendment are in a preferred position.
P. 115.
7. Since the privilege in question is guaranteed by the Federal Constitution and exists independently of state authority, the inquiry
as to whether the State has given something for which it can ask
a return-is irrelevant. P. 115.
8. A community may not suppress, or the State tax, the dissemination
of views because they are unpopular, annoying, or distasteful.
P. 116.
*Together with No. 481, Perisich v. Pennsylvania (City of Jeannette), No. 482, Mowder v. Pennsylvania (City of Jeannette), No. 483,
Seders v. Pennsylvania (City of Jeannette), No. 484, Lamborn v.
Pennsylvania (City of Jeannette), No. 485, Maltezos v. Pennsylvania
(City of Jeannette), No. 486, Anastasia Tzanes v. Pennsylvania (City
of Jeannette), and No. 487, Ellaine Tzanes v. Pennsylvania (City of
Jeannette), also on writs of certiorari, 318 U. S. 748, to the Superior
Court of Pennsylvania.

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

9. The assumption that the ordinance has been construed to apply
only to solicitation from house to house can not sustain it, since
nt is not narrowly drawn to prevent or control abuses or evils arising
from that particular type of activity. P. 117.
149 Pa. Super. 175, 27 A. 2d 666, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 748, to review affirmances of orders
in eight cases refusing to allow appeals from judgments
and sentences for violations of a municipal ordinance.
Mr. Hayden C. Covington for petitioners.
Mr. FredB. Trescher for respondent.

MR. JusrICE DOUcLAS delivered the opinion- of the
Court.
The City of Jeannette, Pennsylvania, has an ordinance,
some forty years old, which provides in part:
"That all persons canvassing for or soliciting within
said Borough, orders for goods, paintings, pictures, wares,
,or merchandise of any kind, or persons delivering such
articles under orders so obtained or solicited, shall be required to procure from the Burgess a license to transact
said business and shall pay to the Treasurer of said Borough therefore the following sums according to the time
for which said license shall be granted.
"For one day $1.50, for one week seven dollars ($7.00),
for two weeks twelve dollars ($12.00), for three weeks
twenty dollars ($20.00), provided that the provisions of
this ordinance shall not apply to persons selling by sample
to manufacturers or licensed merchants or dealers doing
business in said Borough of Jeannette."
Petitioners are "Jehovah's Witnesses." They went
about from door to door in the City of Jeannette distributing literature and soliciting people to "purchase" certain religious books and pamphlets, all published by the

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

Opinion of the Court.

Watch Tower Bible & Tract Society.' The "price" of the
books was twenty-five cents each, the "price" of the pamphlets five cents each.2 In connection with these activities, petitioners used a phonograph ' on which they played
a record expounding certain of their views on religion.
None of them obtained a license under the ordinance.
Before they were arrested each had made "sales" of books.
There was evidence that it was their practice in making
these solicitations to request a "contribution" of twentyfive cents each for the. books and five cents each for the
pamphlets, but to accept lesser sums or even to donate
the volumes in case an interested person Was without
funds. In the present case, some donations of pamphlets
were made when books were purchased. Petitioners were
convicted and fined for violation of the ordinance. Their
judgments of conviction were sustained by the $uperior
Court of Pennsylvania, 149 Pa. Super. Ct. 175, 27 A. 2d
666, against their contention that the ordinance deprived
them of the freedom of speech, press, and religion guaranteed by the First Amendment. Petitions for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania were denied.
The cases are here on petitions for writs of certiorari which
we granted along with the petitions for rehearing of Jones
v. Opelika, 316 U. S. 584, and its companion cases.
religious books--Salvation and Creation-were sold. Others
Were offered in addition to the Bible.. The Watch Tower Bible &Tract
Society is alleged to be a non-profit charitable corporation.
2 Petitioners paid three cents each for the pamphlets and, if they
devoted only their spdre time to the work, twenty cents each for the
books. Those devoting full time to the work acouired the books for
five cents each. There was evidence that some of the petitioners paid
the difference between the sales price and the cost of the books to
their local congregations which distributed the literature.
3Purchased along with the record from the Watch Tower Bible
& Tract Society.
1Two

"531559-4t:---11

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.. S.

The First Amendment, which the Fourteenth makes
applicable to the states, declares that "Congress shall
make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the
freedom of speech, or of the press

. . ."

It could hardly

be denied that a tax laid specifically on the exercise
of those freedoms would be unconstitutional. Yet the
license tax imposed by this ordinance is, in substance.
just that.
Petitioners spread their interpretations of the Bible and
their religious beliefs largely through the hand distribution
of literature by full or part time workers.' They claim to
follow the example of Paul, teaching "publickly, and from
house to house." Acts 20:20. They take literally the
mandate of the Scriptures, "Go ye into all the world, and
preach the gospel to every creature." -Mark 16:15. In
doing so they believe that they are obeying a commandment of God.
The hand distribution of religious tracts is an age-old
form of missionary evangelism-as old as the history of
printing presses.5 It has been a potent force in various
religious movements down through the years.' This form
of evangelism is utilized today on a large scale by various
religious sects whose colporteurs carry the Gospel to thou'The nature and extent of their activities throughout the world
during the years 1939 and 1940 are to be found in the 1941 Yearbook of
Jehovah's Witnesses, pp. 62-243.
5 Palmer,
The Printing Press and the Gospel (1912).
6
White, The Colporteur Evangelist (1930); Home Evangelization
(1850); Edwards, The Romance of the Book (1932) c. V; 12 Biblical
Repository (1844) Art. VIII; 16 The Sunday Magazine (1887)
pp. 43-47; 3 Meliora (1861) pp. 311-319; Felice, Protestants of France
(1853) pp. 53, 513; 3 D'Aubigne, History of The Reformation (1849)
pp. 103, 152, 436-437; Report of Colportagein Virginia, North Carolina & South Carolina, American Tract Society (1855). An early type
of colporteur was depicted by John Greenleaf Whittier in his legendary
poem, The Vaudois Teacher. And see, Wylie, History of the
Waldenses.

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

Opinion of the Court.

sands upon thousands of homes" and seek through personal visitations to win adherents to their faith.7 It is
more than preaching; it is more than distribution of religious literature. It is a combination of both. Its purpose is as evangelical as the revival meeting. This form
of religious activity occupies the same high estate under
the First Amendment as do worship in the churches and
preaching from the pulpits. It has the same claim to
protection as the more orthodox and conventional exercises of religion. It also has the same claim as the others
to the guarantees of freedom of speech and freedom of
the press.
The integrity of this conduct or behavior as a religious
piactice has not been challenged. Nor do we have presented any question as to the sincerity of petitioners in
their religious beliefs and practices, however misguided
they may be thought to be. Moreover, we do not intimate
or suggest in respecting their sincerity that any conduct
can be made a religious rite and by the zeal of the practitioners swept into the First Amendment. Reynolds v.
7 The

General Conference of Seventh-Day Adventists, who filed a

brief amicus curiaeon the reargument of Jones v. Opelika, has given us

the following data concerning their literature ministry: This denominatioji has 83 publishing houses throughout the world, issuing publications
in over 200 languages. Some 9,256 separate publications were issued
in .1941. By printed and spoken word, the Gospel is carried into 412
countries in 824 languages. 1942 Yearbook, p. 287. During December 1941, a total of 1,018 colporteurs operated in North America. They
delivered during that month $97,997.19 worth of gospel literature, and
for the whole year of 1941 a total of $790,61036-an average per person
of about $65 per month. Some of these were students and temporary
workers. Colporteurs of this denomination receive half of their
collections, from which they must pay their traveling and living expenses. Colporteurs are specially trained and their qualifications equal
those of preachers. In the field, each worker is under the supervision
of a field missionary secretary to whom a weekly report is made. After
fifteen years of continuous service, each colporteur is entitled to the
same pension as retired ministers. And see Howell, The Great Advent
Movement (1935), pp. 72-75.

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

United States, 98 U. S. 145, 161-167, and Davis v. Beason,
133 U. S. 333 denied any such claim to the practice of
polygamy and bigamy. Other claims may well arise
'which deserve the same fate. We only hold that spreading one's religious beliefs or preaching the Gospel through
distribution ' of religious literature and through personal
visitations is an age-old type of evangelism with as high a
claim to constitutional protection as the more orthodox
types. The manner in which it is practiced at times gives
rise to special problems with which the police power of the
states is competent to deal. See for example Cox v. New
1Hampshire, 312 U. S.569, and Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568. But that merely illustrates that the
rights with which we are dealing are not absolutes.
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 160-161. We are concerned, however, in these cases merely with one narrox
issue. There is presented for decision no question whatsoever concerning punishment for any alleged unlawful
acts during the solicitation. Nor is there involved here
any question as to the validity of a registration system for
colporteurs and other solicitors. The cases present a
single issue-the constitutionality of an ordinance which
as construed and applied requires religious colporteurs to
pay a license tax as a condition to the pursuit of their
activities.
The alleged justification for the exaction of this license
tax is the fact that the religious literature is distributed
with a solicitation of funds. Thus it was stated, in Jones
v. Opelika, supra, p. 597, that when a religious sect uses
"ordinary commercial methods of sales, of articles to raise
propaganda funds," it is proper for the state to charge
"reasonable fees for the privilege of canvassing." Situations will arise where it will be difficult to determine
whether a particular activity is religious or purely commercial. The distinction at times is vital. As we stated
only the other day, in Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S.413,
417, "The states can prohibit the use of the streets for

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

Opinion of the Court.

the distribution of purely commercial leaflets, even
though such leaflets may have 'a civic appeal, or a moral
platitude' appended. Valentine v. Chrestensen,316 U. S.
52, 55. They may not prohibit the distribution of handbills in the pursuit of a clearly religious activity merely
because the handbills invite the purchase of books for
the improved understanding of the religion or because
the handbills seek in a lawful fashion to promote the raising of funds for religious purposes." But the mere fact
that the religious literature is "sold" by itinerant preachers rather than "donated" does not transform evangelism into a commercial enterprise. If it did, then the passing of the collection plate in church would make the
church service a commercial project. The constitutional
rights of those spreading their religious beliefs through
the spoken and printed word are not to be gauged by
standards governing retailers, or wholesalers of books.
The right to use the press for expressing one's views is
not to be measured by the protection afforded commercial handbills. It should be remembered that the pamphlets of Thomas Paine were not distributed free of
charge. It is plain that a religious organization needs
funds to remain a going concern. But an itinerant evangelist, however misguided or intolerant he may be, does
not become a mere book agent by selling the Bible or religious tracts to help defray his expenses' or to sustain
him. Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom
of religion are available to all, not merely to those who
can pay their own way. As we have said, the problem
of drawing' the line between a purely commercial activity
and a religious one will at times be difficult. On this record it plainly cannot be said that petitioners were engaged in a commercial rather than a religious venture.
It is a distortion of the facts of record to describe their
activities as the occupation of selling books and pamphlets. And the Pennsylvania court did not rest the
judgments of conviction on that basis, though it did find

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

that petitioners "sold" the literature. The Supreme
Court of Iowa in State v. Mead, 230 Iowa 1217, 300 N. W.
523, 524, described the selling activities of members of this
same sect as "merely incidental and collateral" to their'
"main object which was to preach and publicize the doctrines of their order." And see State v. Meredith, 197
S. C. 351, 15 S. E. 2d 678; People v. Barber,289 N. Y. 378,
.385-386, 46 N. E. 2d 329. That accurately summarizes
the present record.
We do not mean to say that religious groups and the
press are free from all financial burdens of government.
See Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 250.
We have here something quite different, for example,
from a tax on the income of one who engages in religious
activities or a tax on property used or employed in connection with those activities. It is one thing to impose
a tax on the income or property of a preacher. It is quite
another thing to exact a tax from him for the privilege of
delivering a sermon. The tax imposed by the City of
Jeannette is a flat license tax, the payment of which is a
condition of the exercise of these constitutional privileges. The power to tax the exercise of a privilege is the
power to control or suppress its. enjoyment. Magnano
Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40, 44-45, and cases cited.
Those who can tax the exercise of this religious practice
can make its exercise so costly as to deprive it of the resources necessary for its maintenance. Those who can
tax the privilege of engaging in this form of missionary
evangelism can close its doors to all tl.ose who do not have
a full purse. Spreading religious beliefs -in this ancient
and honorable manner would thus be denied the needy.
Those who can deprive religious groups of their colporteurs can take from them a part of the vital power of the
press which has survived from the Reformation.
It is 'contended, however, that the fact that the license
tax can suppreds' or control this activity is unim-

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
1,

Opinion of the Court.

portant if it does not do so. But that is to disregard
the nature of this tax. It is a license tax-a flat tax
imposed on the exercise of a privilege granted by the
Bill of Rights. A state may not impose a charge for
the enjoyment of a right granted by the Federal Constitution. Thus, it may not exact a license tax for the
privilege of carrying on interstate commerce (McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S. 33, 56-58), although it may tax the property used in, or the income
derived from, that commerce, so long as those taxes
are not discriminatory. Id., p. 47 and cases cited. A
license tax applied to activities guaranteed by the First
Amendment would have the same destructive effect. It
is true that the First Amendment, like the commerce
clause, draws no distinction between license taxes, fixed
sum taxes, and other kinds of taxes. But that is no
reason why we should shut our eyes to the nature of the
tax and its destructive influence. The power to impose
a license tax on the exercise of these freedoms is indeed
as potent as the power of censorship which this Court
has repeatedly struck down. Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S.
444; Schneider v. State, supra; Cantwcll v. Connecticut,
310 U. S. 296, 306; Largent v. Texas, 318 U. S. 418; Jamison v. Texas, supra. It was for that reason that the dissenting opinions in Jones v. Opelika, supra, stressed the
nature of this type of tax. 316 U. S. pp. 607-609, 620,-623.
.In that case, as in the present ones, we have something
very different from a registration system under which
those going from house to house are required to give their
names, addresses and other marks of identification to
the authorities. In all of these cases the issuance of
the permit or license is dependent on the payment of a
license tax. And the license tax is fixed in amount and
unrelated to the scope of the activities of petitioners
or to their realized revenues. It is not a nominal fee

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.,
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

imposed as a regulatory measure to defray the expenses
of policing the activities in question.' It is in no way
apportioned. It is a flat license tax levied and collected
as a condition to the pursuit of activities whose enjoyment
is guaranteed by the First Amendment. Accordingly, it
restrains in advance those constitutional liberties of press
and religion and inevitably tends to suppress their exercise. That is almost uniformly recognized as the inherent
vice and evil of this flat license tax. As stated by the
Supreme Court of Illinois in a case involving this same
sect and an ordinance similar to the present one, a person
cannot be compelled "to purchase, through a license fee
or a license tax, the privilege freely granted by the constitution." 9 Blue Island v. Kozul, 379 Ill. 511, 519, 41
N. E. 2d 515. So, it may not be said that proof is lacking that these license taxes either separately or cumulatively have restricted or are likely to restrict petitioners'
religious activities. On their face they are a restriction
of the free exercise of those freedoms which are protected
by the First Amendment.
The taxes imposed by this ordinance can hardly help
but be as severe and telling in their impact on the freedom
8The

constitutional difference between such a regulatory measure
and a tax on the exercise of a federal right has long been recognized.
While a state may not exact a license tax for the privilege of carrying on interstate commerce (McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., supra,
pp. 56-58), it may, for example, exact a fee to defray the cost of
purely local regulations in spite of the fact that those regulations incidentally affect commerce. "So long as they do not impede the
free flow of commerce and are not made the subject of regulation
by Congress they are not forbidden. Clyde Mallory Lines v. Alabama, 296 U. S. 261, 267, and cases cited. And see South Carolina
Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 185-188.
0That is the view of most state courts which have passed on the
question. McConkey v. Fredericksburg, 179 Va. 556, 19 S. E. 2d
682; State v. Greaves, 112 Vt. 222, 22 A. 2d 497; People v. Banks,
168 Misc. 515, 6 N. Y. S. 2d 41. Contra: Cook v. Harrison, 180 Ark.
546, 21 S. W. 2d 966.

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

Opinion of the Court.

of the press and religion as the "taxes on knowledge" at
which the First Amendment was partly aimed. Grosjean
v. American Press Co., supra, pp. 244-249. They may indeed operate even more subtly. Itinerant evangelists
moving throughout a state or from state to state would
feel immediately the cumulative effect of such ordinances
as they become fashionable. The way of the religious
dissenter has long been hard. But if the formula of this
type of ordinance is approved, a new device for the suppression of religious minorities will have been found.
This method of. disseminating religious beliefs can be
crushed and closed out by the sheer weight of the toll or
tribute which is exacted town by town, village by village.
The spread of religious ideas through personal visitations
by the literature ministry of numerous religious groups
would be stopped.
The fact that the ordinance is "nondiscriminatory" is
immaterial. The protection afforded by the First Amendment is not so restricted. A license tax certainly does not
acquire constitutional validity because it classifies the
privileges protected by the First Amendment along with
the wares and merchandise of hucksters and peddlers and
treats them all alike. Such equality in treatment does not
save the ordinance. Freedom of press, freedom of speech,
freedom of religion are in a preferred position.
It is claimed, however, that the ultimate question in de.
termining the constitutionality of this license tax is
whether the state has given something for which it can
ask a return. That principle has wide applicability.
State Tax Commission v. Aldrich, 316 U. S. 174, and cases
cited. But it is quite irrelevant here. This tax is not
a charge for the enjoyment of a privilege or benefit bestowed by the state. The privilege in question exists
apart from state authority.. It is guaranteed the people
by the Federal Constitution.
Considerable emphasis is placed on the kindf literature
which petitioners were distributing-its provocative,

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court

319 U. S.

abusive, and ill-mannered character and the assault which
it makes on our established churches and the cherished
faiths of many of us. See Douglas v. Jeannette, concurring opinion, post, p. 166. But those considerations are
no justification for the license tax which the ordinance
imposes. Plainly a community may not suppress, or the
state tax, the dissemination of views because they are unpopular, annoying or distasteful. If that device wiere
ever sanctioned, there wduld have been forged a ready
instrument for the suppression of the faith which any minority cherishes but which does not happen to be in favor.
That would be a complete repudiation of the philosophy
of the Bill of Rights.
Jehovah's Witnesses are not "above the law." But the
present ordinance is not directed to the problems with
which the police power of the state is free to deal. It does
not cover, and petitioners are not charged with, breaches
of the peace. They are pursuing their solicitations peacefully and quietly. Petitioners, moreover, are not charged
with or prosecuted for the use of language which is obscene, abusive, or which incites retaliation. Cf. Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire,supra. Nor do we have here,
as we did in Cox v. New Hampshire, supra, and Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire,supra, state regulation of the
streets to protect and insure the safety, comfort, or convenience of the public. Furthermore, the present ordinance is not narrowly drawn to safeguard the people of
the community in their homes against the evils of solicitations. See Cantwell v. Connecticut, supra, 306. As we
have said, it is not merely a registration ordinance calling
for an identification of the solicitors so as to give the authorities some basis for investigating strangers coming
into the community. And the fee is not a nominal one,
imposed as a regulatory measure and calculated to defray
the expense of protecting those on the streets and at home
against the abuses of solicitors. See Cox v. New Hamp-

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

Run, J., dissenting.

shire, supra,pp. 576-577. Nor can the present ordinance
survive if we assume that it has been construed to apply.
only to solicitation from house to house. 10 The ordinance
is not narrowly drawn to prevent or control abuses or
evils arising from that activity. Rather, it sets aside the
residential areas as a prohibited zone, entry of which is
denied petitioners unless the tax is paid. That restraint
and one which is city-wide in scope (Jones v. Opelika) are
different only in degree. Each is an abridgment of freedom of press'and a restraint on the free exercise of
religion. They stand or fall together.
The judgment in Jones v. Opelika has this day been
vacated. Freed from that controlling precedent, we can
restore to their high, constitutional position the liberties
of itinerant evangelists who disseminate their religious
beliefs and the tenets of their faith through distribution
of literature. The judgments are reversed and the causes
are remanded to the Pennsylvania Superior Court for
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
The following dissenting opinions are applicble to Nos.
280, 314, and 966 (October Term, 1941), Jones v. Opelika,
ante, p. 103; and to Nos. 480-487, Murdock v. Pennsylvania, ante, p. 105. See also opinion of MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, post, p. 166.
MR.JUSTICE REED,

dissenting:

These cases present for solution the problem of the
constitutionality of certain, municipal ordinances levying
a tax for the production of revenue on the sale of books
20 The Pennsylvania Superior Court stated that the ordinance has
been "enforced" only to prevent petitioners from canvassing "from
door to door and house to house" without a license and not to prevent
them from distributing their literature on the streets. 149 Pa. Super.
Ct., p. 184, 27 A. 2d 670.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Rzm, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

and pamphlets in the streets or from door to door. Decisions sustaining the particular ordinances were entered in
the three cases first listed at the last term of this Court.
In that opinion the ordinances were set out and the facts
and issues stated. Jones v. Opelika, 316 U. S. 584. A
rehearing has been granted. The present judgments
vacate the old and invalidate the ordinances. The eight
cases of this term involve canvassing from door to door
only under similar ordinances, which are in the form stated
in the Court's opinion. By a per curiam opinion of this
day, the Court affirms its acceptance of the arguments
presented by the dissent of last term in Jones v. Opelika.
The Court states its position anew in the Jeannette
cases.
This dissent does not deal with an objection which theoretically could be made in each case, to wit, that the
licenses are so excessive in amount as to be prohibitory.
This matter is not considered because that defense is not
relied upon in the pleadings, the briefs or at the bar. No
evidence is offered to show the amount is oppressive. An
unequal tax, levied on the activities of distributors of informatory publications, would be a phase of discrimination against the freedom of speech, press or religion. Nor
do we deal with discrimination against the petitioners, as
individuals or as members of the group, calling themselves
Jehovah's Witnesses. There is no contention in any of
these cases that such discrimination is practiced in the
application of the ordinances. Obviously, an improper
application by a city, which resulted in the arrest of
Witnesses and failure to .enforce the ordinance against
other groups, such as the Adventists,. would raise entirely
distinct issues.
A further and important disclaimer must be made in
order .to focus atteption sharply upon the constitutional
issue. This dissent does not express, directly or by inference, any conclusion as to the constitutional rights of state
or federal governments to place a privilege tax upon the

MURDOCK v., PENNSYLVANIA.
105

RFuD, J., dissenting.

soliciting of a free-will contribution for religious purposes.
Petitioners suggest that their books and pamphlets are not
sold but are given either without price or in appreciation
of the recipient's gift for the furtherance of the work of
the Witnesses. The pittance sought, as well as the practice
of leaving books with poor people without cost, gives
strength to this argument. In our judgment, however,
the plan of national distribution by the Watch Tower Bible
& Tract Society, with its wholesale prices of five or twenty
cents per copy for books, delivered to the public by the
Witnesses at twenty-five cents per copy, justifies the characteyization of the transaction as a sale by all the state
courts. The evidence is conclusive that the Witnesses
normally approach a prospect with an offer of a book for
twenty-five cents. Sometimes, apparently rarely, a book
is left with a prospect without payment. The quid pro
quo is demanded. If the profit was greater, twenty cents
or even one dollar, no difference in principle would emerge.
The Witness sells books to raise money for propagandizing
his faith, just as other religious groups might sponsor
bazaars, or peddle tickets to'church suppers, or sell Bibles
or prayer books for the same. object. However high the
purpose or noble the aims of the Witness, the transaction
has been found by the state courts to be a sale under their
ordinances and, though our doubt was greater than it is,
the state's conclusion would influence us to follow its
determination.'
The Court in the Murdock case analyzes the contention that the
sales technique partakes of commercialism and says: "It is a distortion
of the facts of record to describe their activities as the occupation of
selling books and pamphlets. And the Pennsylvania court did not rest
the judgments of conviction on that basf1, though it did find that
petitioners 'sold' the literature." The state court, in its opinion,
149 Pa. Super. Ct. 175, 27 A. 2d 666, 667, stated the applicable ordinance as forbidding sales of merchandise by canvassing *ithout a
license, and said that the evidence established its violation by selling
"two books entitled 'Salvation' and 'Creation' respectively, and certain

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
RFnD, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

In the opinion in Jones v. Opelika, 316 U. S. 584, on the
former hearing, attention was called to the differentiation between these cases of taxation and those of forbidden censorship, prohibition or discrimination. There
is no occasion to repeat what has been written so recently
as to the constitutional right to tax the money-raising
activities of religious or didactic groups. There are, however, other reasons, not fully developed in that opinion,
that add to our conviction that the Constitution does not
prohibit these general occupational taxes.
The real contention of the Witnesses is that there can
be no taxation of the occupation of selling books and
pamphlets because to do so would be contrary to the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, which
now is held to have drawn the contents of the First Amendment into the category of individual rights protected
leaflets or pamphlets, all published by the Watch Tower Bible and
Tract Society of Brooklyn, N. Y., for which the society fixed twentyfive cents each as the price for the books and five cents each as the price
of the leaflets. Defendants paid twenty cents each for the books,
unless they devoted their whole time to the work, in which case they
paid five cents each for the books they sold at twenty-five cents. Some
of the witnesses spoke of 'contributions' but the evidence justified a
finding that they sold the books and pamphlets."
The state court then repeated with approval from one of its former
decisions the statements: "The constitutional right of freedom of worship does not guarantee anybody the right to sell
anything from house
to house or in buildings, belonging to, or in the occupancy of, other
persons." ". . . we do not accede to his contention on the oral
argument that the federal decisions relied upon by him go so far as to
rule that the constitutional guaranty of a free press forbids dealers in
books and printed matter being subjected to our State mercantile
license tax or the federal income tax as to such sales, along with dealers
in other merchandise." Pittsburghv. Rufflner, 134 Pa. Super. Ct. 192,
199, 202, 4 A. 2d 224. And after further discussion of selling, the
conviction of the Witnesses was affirmed. It can hardly be said, we
think, that the state court did not treat the Jeannette canvassers as
engaged in a commercial activity or occupation at the time of their
arrests.

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

RED, J., dissenting.

from state deprivation. Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S.
652, 666; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 707; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 303. Since the publications teach a religion which conforms to our standards
of legality, it is urged that these ordinances prohibit the
free exercise of religion and abridge the freedom of speech
and of the press.
The First Amendment reads as follows:
"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof;
or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or
the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to
petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
It was one of twelve proposed on September 25, 1789,
to the States by the First Congress after the adoption
of the Constitution. Ten were ratified. They were intended to be and have become our Bill of Rights. By
their terms, our people have a guarantee that so long as
law as we know it shall prevail, they shall live protected
from the tyranny of the despot or the mob. None of the
provisions of our Constitution is more venerated by the
people or respected by legislatures and the courts than
those which proclaim for our country the freedom of
religion and expression. While the interpreters of the
Constitution find the purpose was to allow the widest
practical scope for the exercise of religion and the dissemination of information, no jurist has ever conceived that
the prohibition of interference is absolute.2 Is subjection to nondiscriminatory, nonexcessive taxation in the
distribution of religious literature, a prohibition of the
exercise of religion or an abridgment of the freedom of the
press?
2 Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357, 371, and the concurring
opinion, 373; Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, 166; Cantwell

v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 303; Cox v. New Hampshire, 312 U. S
569, 574, 576.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
REED, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

Nothing has been brought to our attention which would
lead to the conclusion that the contemporary advocates
of the adoption of a Bill of Rights intended such an exemption. The words of the Amendment do not support
such a construction. "Free" cannot be held to be without cost but rather its meaning must accord with the
freedom guaranteed. "Free" means a privilege to print
or pray without permission and without accounting to
authority for one's actions. In the Constitutional Convention the proposal for a Bill of Rights of any kind received scant attention.' In the course of the ratification
of the Constitution, however, the absence of a Bill of
Rights was used vigorously by the opponents of the new
government. A number of the states suggested amendments. Where these suggestions have any bearing at all
upon religion or free speech, they indicate nothing as to
any feeling concerning taxation either of religious bodies
or their evangelism.' This was not because freedom of
8

Journal of the Convention, 369; II Farrand, The Records of the
Federal Convention, 611, 616-8, 620. Cf. McMaster & Stone, Pennsylvania and the Federal Constitution, 251-3.
4I Elliot's Debates on the Federal Constitution (1876) 319 et seq.
In ratifying the Constitution the following declarations were made:
New Hampshire, p. 326, "XI. Congress shall make no laws touching
religion, or to infringe the rights of conscience.". Virginia, p. 327,
"... no right, of any denomination, can be cancelled, abridged, restrained, or modified, by the Congress, by the Senate or House of
Representatives, acting in any capacity, by the President, or any
department or officer of the United States, except in those instances
in which power is given by the Constitution for those purposes;,
and that, among other essential rights, the liberty of conscience, and
of the press, cannot be cancelled, abridged, restrained, or modified,
by any authority of the United States." New York, p. 328, "That
the freedom of the press ought not to be violated or restrained."
After the submission of the amendments, Rhode Island ratified and
declared, pp. 334, 335, "IV' That religion, or the duty which we owe
to our Creator, and the manner of discharging it, can be directed
only by reason and conviction, and not by force and violence; and
therefore all men have a natural, equal, and unalienable right to the

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

-

123

Rzw, J., dissenting.

religion or free speech was not understood. It was because
the subjects were looked upon from standpoints entirely
distinct from taxation.5
The available evidence of Congressional action shows
clearly that the draftsmen of the amendments had in mind
the practice of religion and the right to be heard, rather
than any abridgment or interference with either by taxaexercise of religion according to the dictates of conscience; and that
no particular religious sect or society ought to be favored or established, by law, in preference to others..... XVI. That the people
have a right to freedom of speech, and of writing and publishing
their sentiments. That freedom of the press is one of the greatest
bulwarks of liberty, and ought not to be violated."
5The Articles of Confederation had references to religion and free
speech:
"Article III. The said States hereby severally enter into a firm league
of friendship with each other, for their common defence, the security
of their liberties, and their mutual and general welfare, binding themselves to assist each other, against all force offered-to, or attacks made
upon them, or any of them, on account of religion, sovereignty, trade,
or any other pretence whatever."
"Article V. ... Freedom of speech and debate in Congress shall

not be impeached or questioned in any court, or place out of Congress, and the members of Congress shall be protected in their persons from arrests and imprisonments, during the time of their going
to and from, and attendance on Congress, except for treason, felony,
or breach of the peace."
The Statute of Religious Freedom was passed in Virginia in 1785.
The substance was in paragraph II: "Be it enacted by the General
Assembly, That no man shall be compelled to frequent or support
any religious worship, place, or ministry whatsoever, nor shall be
enforced, restrained, molested, or burthened in his body or goods, nor
shall otherwise suffer on account of his religious opinions or belief; but
that all men shall be free to profess, and by argument to maintain,
their opinion in matters of religion, and that the same shall in no wise
diminish, enlarge, or affect their civil capacities." 12 Hening Statutes
of Va. 86.
A number of the states' constitutions at the time of the adoption
of the Bill of Rights contained provisions as to a free press:
Georgia, Constitution of 1777, Art. LXI. "Freedom of the press
, 531559--44----12

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
R w, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

tion in any form." The amendments were proposed by
and trial by jury to remain inviolate forever." I Poore, Federal and
State Constitutions 383.
Maryland, Constitution of 1776, Declaration of Rights, Art.
XXXVIII. "That the liberty of the press ought to be inviolably preserved." Id. 820.
Massachusetts, Coustitution of 1780, Part First, Art. XVI. "The
liberty of the press is essential to the security of freedom in a State;
it ought not, therefore, to be restrained in this commonwealth." Id.,
959.
New Hampshire, Constitution of 1784, Part 1, Art. XXII. "The
Liberty of the Press is essential to the security of freedom in a state;
it ought, therefore, to be inviolably preserved." II Poore, id., 1282.
North Carolina, Constitution of 1776, Declaration of Rights, Art.
XV. "That the freedom of the press is one of the great bulwarks of
liberty, and therefore ought never to be restrained." Id., 1410.
Pennsylvania, Constitution of 1776, Declaration of Rights, Art. XII.
"That the people have a right to freedom of speech, and of writing,
and publishing their sentiments; therefore the freedom of the press
ought not to be restrained." Id., 1542.
Virginia, Bill of Rights, 1776, § 12. "That the freedom of the press is
one, of the great bulwarks. of liberty, and can never be restrained but
by despotic governments." Id., 1909.
6 For example, the first amendment as it passed the House of Representatives on Monday, August 24, 1789, read as follows:
"Congress shall make no law establishing religion or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof, nor shall the rights of Conscience be infringed.
"The Freedom of Speech, and of the Press, and the right of the
People peaceably to assemble, and consult for their common good, and
to apply to the Government for a redress of grievances, shall not be
infringed." Records of the United States Senate, 1A-C2 (U. S. Nat.
Archives).
Apparently when the proposed amendments were passed by the
Senate on September 9, 1789, what is now the first amendment read as

follows:
"Congress shall make no law establishing articles of faith, or a mode
of worship, or prohibiting the free exercise of religion, or abridging the
freedom of speech, or of the press, or the right of the people peaceably to
assemble, and to petition to the government for a redress of grievances."

Id.

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

Rian, J., dissenting.

Mr. Madison. He was careful to explain to the Congress
the meaning of the amendment on religion. The draft
was commented upon by Mr. Madison when it read:
"no religion shall be established by law, nor shall the
equal rights of conscience be infringed." 1 Annals of
Congress 729,
He said that he apprehended the meaning of the words
on religion to be that Congress should not establish a
religion and enforce the legal observation of it by law, nor
compel men to worship God in any manner contrary to
their conscience. Id., 730. No such specific interpretation
of the amendment on freedom of expression has been
found in the debates. The clearest is probably from Mr.
Benson,' who said that
"The committee who framed this report proceeded on
the principle that these rights belonged to the people; they
conceived them to be inherent; and all that they meant
to provide against was their being infringed by the Government." Id., 731-32.
There have been suggestions that the English taxes on
newspapers, springing from the tax act of 10 Anne, c. 19,
§ CI," influenced the adoption of the First Amendment."
TEgbert

Benson was the first attorney general of New York, a member of the Continental Congress and of the New York Convention for
ratification of the Constitution. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 694.
8"And be it enacted by the Authority aforesaid, That there shall
be raised, levied, collected and paid, to and for the Use of her Majesty,

her Heirs and Successors, for and upon all Books and Papers commonly
called Pamphlets, and for and upon all News Papers, or Papers containing publick News, Intelligence or Occurrences, which shall, at any
Time or Times within or during the Term last. mentioned, be printed
in Great Britain, to be dispersed and made publick, and for and upon
such Advertisements as are herein after mentioned, the respective
Duties following; that is to say,

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
REED, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

These taxes were obnoxious but an examination of the
sources of the suggestion is convincing that there is nothing
to support it except the fact that the tax on newspapers
was in existence in England and was disliked. 10 The simple
answer is that, if there had been any purpose of Congress
to prohibit any kind of taxes on the press, its knowledge
of the abominated English taxes would have led it to ban
them unequivocally.
It is only in recent years that the freedoms of the First
Amendment have been recognized as among the fundamental personal rights protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment from impairment by the states." Until then
these liberties were not deemed to be guarded from state
action by the Federal Constitution. 2 The states placed
"For every such Pamphlet or Paper contained in Half a Sheet, or
any lesser Piece of Paper, so printed, the Sum of one Half-penny
Sterling.
"For every such Pamphlet or Paper (being larger than Half a Sheet,
and not exceeding one whole Sheet) so printed, a Duty after the Rate
of one Penny Sterling for every printed Copy thereof.
"And for every such Pamphlet or Paper, being larger than one
whole Sheet, and not exceeding six Sheets in Octavo, or in a lesser
Page, or not exceeding twelve Sheets in Quarto, or twenty Sheets in
Folio, so printed, a Duty after the Rate of two Shillings'Sterling for
every Sheet of any kind of Paper which shall be contained in one printed
Copy thereof.
"And for every Advertisement to be contained in the London Gazette,
or any other printed Paper, such Paper being dispersed or made
publick weekly, or oftner, the Sum of twelve Pence Sterling."
0 Stevens, Sources of the Constitution, 221, note 2; Stewart, Lennox
and the Taxes on Knowledge, 15 Scottish Hist. Rev. 322, 326; McMaster
& Stone, Pennsylvania and the Federal Constitution, 181; Grosjean
v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 248.
10 Cf. Collet, Taxes ol Knowledge; Chafee, Free Speech in the
United States, 17, n. 33.
11Gitlow v. New York (1925), 268 U. S. 652, 666; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 707; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 307.
12 Permoli v. First Municipality, 3 How. 589, 609; Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, 247.

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

Rms,

J., dissenting.

restraints upon themselves in their own constitutions in
order to protect their people in the exercise of the freedoms
of speech and of religion.' Pennsylvania may be taken
as a fair example. Its constitution reads:
"All men have a natural and indefeasible right to worship
Almighty God according to the dictates of their own
consciences;
no man can of right be compelled to attend,
erect or support any place of worship, or to maintain any
ministry against his consent; no human authority can, in
any case whatever, control or interfere with the rights of
conscience and no preference shall ever be given by law
to any religious establishments or modes of worship."
Purdon's Penna. Stat., Const., Art. I, § 3.
"No person who acknowledges the being of a God, and a
future state of rewards and punishments shall, on account
of his religious sentiments, be disqualified to hold any office or place of trust or profit under this Commonwealth."
Id., Art. I, § 4.
"The printing press shall be free to every person who
may undertake to examine the proceedings of the Legislature or any branch of government, and no law shall ever
be made to restrain the right thereof. The free communication of thoughts and opinions is one of the-invaluable
rights of man, and every citizen may freely speak, write
and print on any subject, being responsible for the abuse
of that liberty. . . ." Id., Art. I, § 7.
It will be observed that there is no suggestion of freedom
from taxation, and this statement is equally true of the
other state constitutional provisions. It may be concluded
that neither in the state or the federal constitutions was
general taxation of church or press interdicted.
Is there anything in the decisions of this Court which
indicates that church or press is free from the financial
,For the state provisions on expression and religion, see 2 Cooley.
Constitutional Limitations (8th Ed.) 876, 965; I1 Constitutions of
the States, New York State Const. Conv.. Committee 1938.

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
IbF,'J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

burdens of government? We find nothing. Religious
societies depend for their exemptions from taxation upon
state constitutions or general statutes, not upon the Federal Constitution. Gibbons v. District of Columbia, 116
U. S. 404. This Court has held that the chief purpose of
the free press guarantee was to prevent previous restraints upon publication. Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S.
697, 713.1" In Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S.
233, 250, it was said that the predominant purpose was to
preserve "an untrammeled press as a vital source of.public information." In that case, a gross receipts tax on advertisements in papers with a circulation of more than
twenty thousand copies per week was held invalid because "a deliberate and calculated device in the guise of
a tax to limit the circulation. . .

."

There was this further

comment:
"It is not intended by anything we have said to suggest
that the owners of newspapers are immune from any of
the ordinary forms of taxation for support of the government. But this is not an ordinary form of tax, but one
single in kind, with a long history of hostile misuse
against the freedom of the press." Id., 250.
It may be said, however, that ours is a too narrow,
technical and legalistic approach to the problem of state
taxation of the activities of church and press; that we
should look not to the expressed or historical meaning
of the First Amendment but to the broad principles of
free speech and free exercise of religion which pervade
our national way of life. It may be that the Fourteenth
Amendment guarantees these principles rather than the
more definite concept expressed in the First Amendment.
This would mean that as a Court , we should determine
what sort of liberty it is that the due process clause of
1,To this Professor Chafee adds the right to criticize the Government. Free Speech in the United States (1941) 18 et seq. Cf. 2
Cooley's Constitutional Limitations (8th Ed.) 886.

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

RED, J., dissenting.

the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees against state
restrictions on speech and church.
But whether we give content to the literal words of the
First Amendment or to principles of the liberty of the
press and the church, we conclude that cities or states
may levy reasonable, non-discriminatory taxes on such
activities as occurred in these cases. Whatever exemptions exist from taxation arise from the prevailing law
of the various states. The constitutions of Alabama and
Pennsylvania, with substantial similarity to the exemption provisions of other constitutions, forbid the taxation
of lots and buildings used exclusively for religious worship. Alabama (1901), § 91; Pennsylvania (1874), Art.
IX, § 1. These are the only exemptions of the press or
church from taxation. We find nothing more, applicable
to our problem in the other constitutions. Surely this
unanimity of specific state action on exemptions of religious bodies from taxes would not have occurred throughout our history, if it had been conceived that the genius
of our institutions, as expressed ii the First Amendment,
was incompatible with the taxation of church or press.
Nor do .we understand that the Court now maintains
that the Federal Constitution frees press or religion of
any tax except such occupational taxes as those here
levied. Income taxes, ad valorem taxes, even occupational taxes are presumably valid, save only a license tax
on sales of religious books. Can it be that the Constitution permits a tax on the printing presses and the gross
inc9me of a metropolitan newspaper " but denies the
right to lay an occupational tax on the distributors of the
same papers? Does the exemption apply to booksellers
or distributors of magazines or only to religious publications? And, if the latter, to what distributors? Or to
what books? Or is this Court saying that a religious
15 Giragi v. Moore, 301 U. S. 670; 48 Ariz. 33; 49 Ariz. 74.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
REED, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

practice of book distribution is free from taxation because
a state cannot prohibit the "free exercise thereof" and
a newspaper is subject to the same tax even though the
same Constitutional Amendment says the state cannot
abridge the freedom of the press? It has never been
thought before that freedom from taxation was a perquisite attaching to the privileges of the First Amendment.
The National Government grants exemptions to ministers and churches because it wishes to do so, not because
the Constitution compels. Internal Revenue Code,
§§ 22 (b) (6), 101 (6), 812 (d), 1004 (a) (2) (B). Where
camp meetings or revivals charge admissions, a federal
tax would apply, if Congress had not granted freedom
from the exaction. Id., § 1701.
It is urged that such a tax as this may be used readily
to restrict the dissemination of ideas. This must be conceded but the possibility of misuse does not make a tax
unconstitutional. No abuse is claimed here. The ordinances in some of these cases are the general occupation
license type covering many' businesses. In the Jeannette
prosecutions, the ordinance involved lays the usual tax on
canvassing or soliciting sales of goods, wares and inerchandise. It was passed in 1898. Every power of taxation
or regulation is capable of abuse. Each one, to some extent, prohibits the free exercise of religion and abridges
the freedom of the press, but that is hardly a reason for
denying the power. If the tax is used oppressively, the
law will protect the victims of such action.
This decision forces a tax subsidy notwithstanding our
accepted belief in the separation of church and state.
Instead of all bearing equally the burdens of government,
this Court now fastens upon the communities the entire
cost of policing' the sales of religious literature. That the
burden may be heavy is shown by the record in the Jeannette cases. There are only eight prosecutions, but one
hundred and four Witnesses solicited in Jeannette the day

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

RE,

J., dissenting.

of the arrests. They had been requested by the authorities to await the outcome of a test case before continuing
their canvassing. The distributors of religious literature,
possibly of all informatory publications, become today
privileged to carry on their occupations without contributing their share to the support of the government which
provides the opportunity for the exercise of their
liberties.
Nor do we think it can be said, properly, that these sales
of religious books are religious exercises. The opinion
of the Court in the Jeannette cases emphasizes for the first
time the argument that the sale of books and pamphlets
is in itself a religious practice. The Court says the Witnesses "spread their interpretations of the Bible and
their religious beliefs largely through the hand distribution of literature by full or part time workers." "The
hand distribution Of religious tracts is an age-old form
of missionary evangelism-as old as the history of printing presses." "It is more than preaching; it is more than
distribution of religious literature. It is a combination
of both. Its purpose is as evangelical as the revival meeting. This form of religious activity occupies the same
high estate under the First Amendment as do worship in
the churches and preaching from the pulpits." "Those
who can tax the exercise of this religious practice can make
its exercise so costly as to deprive it of the resources necessary for its maintenance." "The judgment in Jones v.
Opelika has this day been vacated. Freed from that controlling precedent, we can restore to their high, constitutional position the liberties of itinerant evangelists
who disseminate their religious beliefs and the tenets of
their faith through distribution of literature." The record shows that books entitled "Creation" and "Salvation,"
as well as Bibles, were offered for sale. We shall assume
the first two publications, also, are religious books. Certainly there can be no dissent from the statement that

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
REED,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

selling religious books is an age-old practice, or that it is
evangelism in the sense that the distributors hope the
readers will be spiritually benefited. That does not carry
us to the conviction, however, that when distribution of
religious books is made at a price, the itinerant colporteur
is performing a religious rite, is worshipping his Creator
in his way. Many sects practice healing the sick as an
evidence of their religious faith or' maintain orphanages
or homes for the aged or teach the young. These are, of
course, in a sense, religious practices but hardly such examples of religious rites as are encompassed by the prohibition against the free exercise of religion.
And even if the distribution of religious books was a
religious practice protected from regulation by the First
Amendment, certainly the affixation of a price for the
articles would destroy the sacred character of the transaction. The evangelist becomes also a book agent.
The rites which are protected by the First Amendment
are in essence spiritual-prayer, mass, sermons, sacrament-not sales of religious goods. The card furnished
each Witness to identify him as an ordained minister does
not go so far as to say the sale is a rite. It states only that
the Witnesses worship by exhibiting to people "the message of said gospel in printed form, such as the Bible,
books, booklets and magazines, and thus afford the people
the opportunity of learning of God's gracious -provision
for them." On the back of the card appears: "You may
contribute twenty-five cents to the Lord's work and receive a copy of this beautiful book." The sale of these
religious books has, we think, relation to their religious
exercises, similar to the "information march," said by
the Witnesses to be one of their "ways of worship" and
by this Court to'be subject to regulation by license in
Cox v. New Hampshire,312 U. S. 569, 572, 573, 576.
The attempted analogy in the dissenting opinion in
Jones v. Opelika, 316 U3. S. 584, 609, 611, which now be-

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

Rz~D, J., dissenting.

comes the decision of this Court, between the forbidden
burden of a state tax for the privilege of engaging in interstate commerce and a state tax on the privilege of engaging in the distribution of religious literature is wholly
irrelevant. A state tax on the privilege of engaging in
interstate commerce is held invalid because the regulation of commerce between the states has been delegated
to the Federal Government. This grant includes the
necessary means to carry the grant into effect and forbids
state burdens without Congressional consent.' It is not
the power to tax interstate commerce which is interdicted, but-the exercise of that power by an unauthorized
sovereign, the individual state. Although the fostering
of commerce was one of the chief purposes for organizing the present Government, that commerce may be burdened with a tax by the United States. Internal Revenue Code, § 3469. Commerce must pay its way. It is
not exempt from any type of taxation if imposed by an
authorized authority. The Court now holds that the
First Amendment wholly exempts the church and press
from a privilege tax, presumably by the national as well
as the state government.
The limitations of the Constitution are not maxims of
social wisdom but definite controls on the legislative process. We are dealing with power, not its abuse. This
late withdrawal of the power of taxation over the distribution activities of those covered by the First Amendment fixes what seems to us an unfortunate principle of
tax exemption, capable of indefinite extension. We had
thought that such an exemption required a clear and certain grant. This we do not find in the language of the
First and Fourteenth Amendments. We are therefore of
the opinion the judgments below should be affirmed.
16 Broun v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 445, 448; Kentucky Whip &
Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 299 U. S. 334, 350; Gwin, White
& Prince, Inc. v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 438; Puget Sound Co. v.
Tax Commission, 302 U. S. 90.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

join

in this dissent. MR.

and

JUSTICE

JACKSON has stated additional reasons for dissent in his

concurrence in Douglas v. Jeannette, post, p. 166.
M

. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting:

While I wholly agree with the views expressed by MR.
the controversy is of such a nature as to
lead me to add a few words.
A tax can be a means for raising revenue, or a device
for regulating conduct, or both. Challenge to the constitutional validity of a tax measure requires that it be
analyzed and judged in all its aspects. We must therefore distinguish between the questions that are before
us in these cases and those that are not. .It is altogether
incorrect to say that the question here is whether a state
can limit the free exercise of religion by imposing burdensome taxes. As the opinion of my Brother REED demonstrates, we have not here the question whether the taxes
imposed in these cases are in practical operation an unjustifiable curtailment up'on the petitioners' undoubted
right to communicate their views to others. No claim is
made that the effect of these taxes, either separately or
cumulatively, has been, or is likely to be, to restrict the
petitioners' religious propaganda activities in any degree.
Counsel expressly disclaim any such contention. They
insist on absolute immunity from any kind of monetary
exaction for their occupation. Their claim is that: no
tax, no matter how trifling, can constitutionally be laid
upon the activity of distributing religious literature, regardless of the actual effect of the tax upon such activity.
That is the only ground upon which these ordinances have
been attacked; that is the only question raised in or decided by the state courts; and that is the only question
presented to us. No complaint is made against the size
of.the taxes. If an appropriate claim, indicating that
the taxes were oppressive in their effect upon the petitionJUSTICE REED,

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

FRANKUmRTR,

J., dissenting.

ers) activities, had been made, the issues here would be
very different. No such claim has been made, and it
would be gratuitous to consider its merits.
Nor have we occasion to consider whether these measures are invalid on the ground that they unjustly or unreasonably discriminate against the petitioners; Counsel
do not claim, as indeed they could not, that these ordinances were intended to or have been applied to discriminate against religious groups generally or Jehovah's
Witnesses particularly. No claim is made that the effect
of the taxes is to hinder or restrict the activities of Jehovah's Witnesses while other religious groups, perhaps
older or more prosperous, can carry on theirs. This question, too, is not before us.
It cannot be said that the petitioners are constitutionally exempt from taxation merely because they may be
engaged in religious activities or because such activities
may constitute an exercise of a constitutional right. It
will hardly be contended, for example, that a tax upon
the income of a clergyman would violate the Bill of Rights,
even though the tax is ultimately borne by the members
of his church. A clergyman, no less than a judge, is a
citizen. And not only in time of war would neither willingly enjoy immunity from the obligations of citizenship. It is only fair that he also who preaches the word
of God should share in the costs of the benefits provided
by government to him as well as to the other members of the community. And so, no one would suggest
that a clergyman who uses an automobile or the telephone
in connection with his work thereby gains a constitutional
exemption from taxes levied upon the use of automobiles
or upon telephone calls. Equally alien is it to our constitutional system to suggest that the Constitution of the
United States exempts church-held lands from state taxation. Plainly, a tax measure is not invalid under the federal Constitution merely because it falls upon persons
engaged in activities of. a religious nature.

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANxFUTER, J.,

dissenting.

319 U. S.

Nor can a tax be invalidated merely because it falls upon
activities which constitute an exercise of a constitutional
right. The First Amendment of course protects the right
to publish a newspaper or a magazine or a book. But the
crucial question is-how much protection does the Amendment give, and against what is the right protected? It
is certainly true that the protection afforded the freedom
of the press by the First Amendment does not include
exemption from all taxation. A tax upon newspaper
publishing is not invalid simply because it falls upon the
exercise of a constitutional right. Such a tax might be
invalid if it invidiously singled out newspaper publishing for bearing the burdens of taxation or imposed upon
them in such ways as to encroach on the essential scope
of a free press. If the Court could justifiably hold that
the tax measures in these cases were vulnerable on that
ground, I would unreservedly agree. But the Court
has not done so, and indeed could not.
The vice of the ordinances before us, the Court holds,
is that they impose a special kind of tax, a "flat license
tax, the payment of which is a condition of the exercise
of these constitutional privileges [to engage in religious
activities]." But the fact that an occupation tax is a
"flat" tax certainly is not enough to condemn it. A legislature undoubtedly can tax all those who engage in an
activity upon an equal basis. The Constitution certainly
does not require that differentiations must be made among
taxpayers upon the basis of the size of their incomes or
the scope of their activities. Occupation taxes normally
are flat taxes, and the Court surely does not mean to hold
that a tax is bad merely because all taxpayers pursuing
the very same activities and thereby demanding the same
governmental services are treated alike. Nor, as I have
indicated, can a tax be invalidated because the exercise
of a constitutional privilege is-conditioned upon its payment. It depends upon the nature of the condition that

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

FRANKF URTE,

J., dissenting.

is imposed, its justification, and the extent to which it
hinders or restricts the exercise of the privilege.
As I read the Court's opinion, it does not hold that the
taxes in the cases before us in fact do hinder or restrict
the petitioners in exercising their constitutional rights.
It holds that "The power to tax the exercise of a privilege
is the power to control or suppress its enjoyment." This
assumes that because the taxing power exerted in Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40, the well-known oleomargarine tax case, may have had the effect of "controlling" or "suppressing" the .enjoyment of a privilege and
still was ustained by this Court, and because all exertions
of the taxing power may have that effect, if perchance a
particular exercise of the taxing power does have that
effect, it would have to be sustained under our ruling in
the Magnano case.
The power to tax, like all powers of government, legislative, executive and judicial alike, can be abused or perverted. The power to tax is the power to destroy only
in the sense that those who have power can misuse it.
Mr. Justice Holmes disposed of this smooth phrase as a
constitutional basis for invalidating taxes when he wrote
"The power to tax is not the power to destroy while this
Court sits." Panhandle Oil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S. 218,
223. The fact that a power can be perverted does not
mean that every exercise of the power is a perversion of
the power. Thus, if a tax indirectly suppresses or controls the enjoyment of a constitutional privilege which a
legislature cannot directly suppress or control, of course
it is bad. But it is irrelevant that a tax can suppress or
control if it does not. The Court holds that "Those who
can tax the exercise of this religious practice can make
its exercise so costly as to deprive it of resources necessary
for its maintenance." But this is not the same as saying
that "Those who do tax the exercise of this religious practice have made its exercise so costly as to deprive it of the
resources necessary for its maintenance."

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKmUTER, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

The Court could not plausibly make such an assertion
because the petitioners themselves disavow any claim that
the taxes imposed in these cases impair their ability to
exercise their constitutional rights. We cannot invalidate the tax measures before us simply because there may
be others, not now before us, which are oppressive in their
effect. The Court's opinion does not deny that the ordinances involved in these cases have in no way disabled the
petitioners to engage in their religious activities. It holds
only that "Those who can tax the privilege of engaging in
this form of missionary evangelism can close its doors to
all those who do not have a full purse." I quite agree
with this statement as an abstract proposition. Those
who possess the power to tax might wield it in tyrannical
fashion. It does not follow, however, that every exercise
of the power is an act of tyranny, or that government
should be impotent because it might become tyrannical.
The question before us now is whether these ordinances
have deprived the petitioners of their constitutional rights,
not whether some other ordinances not now before us
might be enacted which might deprive them of such rights.
To deny constitutional power to secular authority merely
because of the possibility of its abuse is as valid as to deny
the basis of spiritual authority because those in whom it
is temporarily vested may misuse it.
The petitioners say they are immune as much from a
flat occupation tax as from a licensing fee purporting
explicitly to cover only the costs of regulation. They
rightly reject any distinction between this occupation
tax and such a licensing fee. There is no constitutional
difference between a so-called regulatory fee and an imposition for purposes of revenue. The state exacts revenue to maintain the costs of government as an entirety.
For certain purposes and at certain times a legislature
may earmark exactions to cover the costs of specific governmental services. In most instances the revenues of
the state are tapped from multitudinous sources for a

MURDOCK v. PENNSYLVANIA.
105

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

common fund out of which the costs of government are
paid. As a matter of public finance, it is often impossible
to determine with nicety the governmental expenditures
attributable to particular activities. But, in any event,
whether government collects revenue for the costs of its
services through an earmarked fund, or whether an approximation of the cost of regulation goes into the general
revenues of government out of which all expenses are
borne, is a matter of legislative discretion and not of constitutional distinction. Just so long as an occupation
tax is not used as a cover for discrimination against a
constitutionally protected right or as an unjustifiable
burden upon it, from the point of view of the Constitution
of the United States it can make no difference whether
such a money exaction for governmental benefits is labeled
a regulatory fee or a revenue measure.
It is strenuously urged that the Constitution denies a
city the right to control the expression of men's minds and
the right of men to win others to their views. But the
Court is not divided on this proposition. No one disputes
it. All members of the Court are equally familiar with
the history that led to the adoption of the Bill of Rights
and are equally zealous to enforce the constitutional protection of the free play of the human spirit. Escape from
the real issue before us cannot be found in such generalities. The real issue here is not whether a city may charge
for the dissemination of ideas but whether the states have
power to require those who need additional facilities to
help bear the cost of furnishing such facilities. Street
hawkers make demands upon municipalities that involve
the expenditure of dollars and cents, whether they hawk
printed matter or other things. As the facts in these cases
show, the cost of maintaining the peace, the additional
demands upon governmental facilities for assuring security, involve outlays which have to be met. To say that
the Constitution forbids the states to obtain the necessary
revenue from the whole of a class that enjoys these benefits
531559-44-13

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FSANxFURTFm,

J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

and facilities, when in fact no discrimination is suggested
as between purveyors of printed matter and purveyors
of other things, and the exaction is not claimed to be actually burdensome, is to say that the Constitution requires
not that the dissemination of ideas in the interest of religion shall be free but that it shall be subsidized by the
state. Such a claim offends the most important of all
aspects of religious freedom in this country, namely, that
of the separation of church and state.
. The ultimate question in determining the constitutionality of a tax measure is-has the state given something
for which it can ask a return? There can be no doubt that
these petitioners, like all who use the streets, have received the benefits of government. Peace is maintained,
traffic is regulated, health is safeguarded-these are only
some of the many incidents of municipal administration.
To secure them costs money, and a state's source of money
is its taxing power. There is nothing in the Constitution
which exempts persons engaged in religious activities
from sharing equally in the costs of benefits to all, including themselves, provided by government.
I cannot say, therefore, that in these cases the community has demanded a return for that which it did not
give. Nor am I called upon to say that the state has demanded unjustifiably more than the value of what it gave,
nor that its demand in fact cramps activities pursued to
promote religious beliefs. No such claim was made at
the bar, and there is no evidence in the records to substantiate any such claim if it had been made. Under these
circumstances, therefore, I am of opiniop that the ordinances in these cases must stand.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

joins in this dissent.

