UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.

.503

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 4.

Argued April 10, 13, 1942. Reargued October 12, 1942.1Decided June 7, 1943.

1. Under Jud. Code § 284, a grand jury can be authorized to sit beyond the term of court at which it was organized only to finish investigations begun during that term. P. 510.
2. Where a grand jury sat to the end of the term at which it was
organized and, by authority of an order of court, through the term
next following, a further order authorizing it to continue to sit during
the term next succeeding "to finish investigations begun but not
finished" by it during the original and intermediate terms is to be
read, not as attempting to authorize the finishing of investigations
begun contrary to Jud. Code § 284 in the intermediate term, but as
authorizing only the finishing of investigations begun during the
original term. P. 509.
3. A grand jury is invested with broad investigatorial powers into
what may be found to be offenses against federal crimina law. Its
work is not circumscribed by the technical requirements governing
the ascertainment of guilt once it has made the charges that culminate its inquiries. P. 510.
4. That for which a grand jury may be authorized to continue its sitting
after the term during which it was organized is the general subject
matter on which it originally began to investigate in that term. And
where its sessions have been extended by order to a following term,
it is not forbidden to inquire into new matters within the general
scope of its original investigation. P. 511.
5. A grand jury, which began its investigation of systematic income
tax evasions during a December 1939 Term in which it was organized, and which was allowed to continue its sitting during the next
two terms (February and March) for the purpose of finishing the
investigation, properly included in its indictment for an attempted
evasion of taxes for the year 1939 the filing of a false return in
March 1940 which was a part of the systematic, fraudulent practice
investigated. P. 511.
*Together with No. 5, United States v. Sommers et al., also on
writ of certiorari, 315 U. S. 790, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

319 U. S.

6. Where an indictment alleged that the grand jury's investigation of
the matters charged was begun but not finished at the term of
court at which the jury was organized, and that the jury, pursuant
to orders of court, had continued to sit during the two following terms
for the purpose of finishing such investigation; and pleas and motions were filed seeking to put these allegations in issue and to have
the indictment quashed upon the ground that it resulted from an
investigation begun after the original term, beyond the competency
of the grand jury, held that the Government was not required to
answer or to assume the burden of supporting with proof the allegations of the indictment; and that the motion to quash was properly stricken on a preliminary motion by the Government. P. 512.
7. Where one person was charged in several counts with attempts to
defeat and evade the payment of his income taxes for each of several
years (made a felony by § 145 (b) of the Internal Revenue Code),
and with filing false returns on March 15th of each of the years
in the process of such attempts and not merely with the offense of
filing false returns, which is made a misdemeanor by § 145 (a) of
that Code; and others were joined as aiders and abettors (who under § 332 of the Criminal Code are principals) charged with assisting him by their conduct during the years in question both before and
after the returns were filed, 1ut not as participating in the acts of
filing, held that the counts, as against the aiders and abettors, were
neither inconsistent nor duplicitous, nor objectionable as charging
them in the same count as accessories both before and after the
fact. P. 514.
8. The evidence concerning the connection of the defendant Johnson
with a network of gambling houses, his winnings, and his private
expenditures during the years in question was sufficient to warrant
leaving the case to the jury. P. 515.
9. In a prosecution for attempts to avoid payment of income taxes,
the fact that the defendant's private expenditures during the years
in question exceeded his available declared resources held competent
as evidence that he had some unreported income. P. 517.
10. One may aid and abet another in attempts to evade income taxes,
without participating in the making of the other's false returns, by
falsely pretending to be the proprietor of establishments from which
the other's income was derived. P. 518.
Evidence of the conduct, acts and admissions of persons charged
as aiders and abettors amply warranted sending their cases to the
jury. P. 518.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
503

Opinion of the Court.

11. Admission of testimony of an expert witness regarding income aid
expenditures of one of the accused in this case, although consisting
of computations based on substantially the entire evidence in the
record, held not an invasion of the province of the jury, where, in the
light of the judge's charge, all issues are left to the independent, unforeclosed determination of the jury. P. 519.
123 F. 2d 111, 142, reversed.

CERTiORAu, 315 U. S. 790, to review the reversal of
sentences imposed by the District Court in a prosecution
of Johnson and others for alleged violations of penal provisions of the Revenue Acts of 1936 and 1938 and for
conspiracy.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr., and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Ellis N. Slack, Earl C. Crouter, J.
Louis Monarch, and Gordon B. Tweedy were on the briefs,
for the United States.
Mr. Floyd E. Thompson argued the cause on the original
argument for respondents. Mr. William J. Dempsey was
with him on the reargument, and Mr. Conrad H. Poppenhusen was with them on the briefs, for respondent in
No. 4.
Messrs. Harold R. Schradzke and Edward J. Hess submitted on the reargument for respondents in No. 5. Mr.
John Elliott Byrne was with Mr. Hess on the brief on the
original argument.
MR. JUSTIcE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of theCourt.
This is an indictment in five counts. Four charge Johnson with attempts to defraud the income tax for each of
the years from 1936 to 1939; inclusive, and charge a dozen
others with aiding and abetting Johnson's efforts. The
fifth count charges Johnson and the others with conspir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

acy to defraud the income tax during those years. The
substantive counts charge violations of the penal provisions of the Revenue Acts of 1936 and 1938, now embodied
in general form in § 145 (b) of the Internal Revenue Code,
53 Stat. 63, 26 U. S. C. § 145 (b). The conspiracy count
is based on the old § 5440 of the Revised Statutes, which
later became § 37 of the Criminal Code, 35 Stat. 1096, 18

U. S. C. § 88.
As to four of the defendants, the cause was dismissed
upon motion of the United States Attorney; three others
were acquitted by the jury. Of the six remaining defendants, the jury brought in a verdict of guilty on all five
counts against Johnson, Sommers, Hartigan, Flanagan,
and Kelly, and against Brown on counts three and four,
the substantive counts for the years 1938 and 1939, and on
the conspiracy count. The district court imposed on
Johnson a sentence of five years on each of the first four
counts and of two years on the conspiracy count, as well as
a fine of $10,000 on each of the five counts. The terms of
imprisonment were to run concurrently and the payment
of $10,000 would discharge all fines. Lesser concurrent
sentences and fines were imposed on the other defendants.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgments.
Its holding undermined the entire prosecution in that it
found the indictment void because it was returned by an
illegally constituted grand jury. But it went beyond that
major ruling. It found the four substantive counts of the
indictment, in. so far as they charged defendants as aiders
and abettors, fatally defective. Proceeding to the merits,
the court held that the case properly went to the jury
against Johnson on the last four counts and that the evidence sustained the verdict against all the defendants on
the conspiracy count, but that a verdict should have been
directed for Johnson on the first count and for the other
defendants on all but the conspiracy count. Finally, it
found that the testimony of an expert accountant for the

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
503

Opinion of the Court.

government invaded the jury's province and that its admission was prejudicial error. 123 F. 2d 111. Judge Evans
dissented on all points. He found no infirmities in the
indictment or in the rulings by the trial judge, and thought
that the case was properly committed to the jury. Id.,
128. On rehearing, the Circuit Court of Appeals adhered
to its views, but withdrew an erroneous part of its grounds
for deeming admission of the expert accountant's testimony to be prejudicial. 123 F. 2d 142. We brought the
case here because it concerns serious aspects of federal
criminal justice. 315 U. S. 790.
Inasmuch as the initiation of prosecution through grand
juries forms a vital feature of the federal system of criminal
justice, the law governing its procedures and the appropriate considerations for determining the legality of its
actions are matters of first importance. Therefore, in deciding that the defendants were held to answer for an
infamous crime on what was merely a scrap of paper and
not "the indictment of the Grand Jury" as required by the
Fifth Amendment, the lower court went beyond that which
relates to the special circumstances of a particular case.
Unlike most of the other rulings below, the court here
dealt with a matter of deep concern to the administration
of federal criminal law. At the root of the court's decision
is its finding that an order extending the life of the grand
jury was void, and that the indictment was therefore returned by a body not lawfully empowered to act. A brief
history of the proceedings which led to the filing of this
indictment in open court on March 29, 1940, is therefore
essential.
Terms of court of the District Court for the Eastern
Division of the Northern District of Illinois are, by statute, fixed for the first Monday in February, March, April,
May, June, July, September, October, and November,
and on the third Monday in December. 28 U. S. C.
§ 152. This grand jury was impaneled at the December
531559-44-

36

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

1939 term of the district court, and was therefore empowered to sit through January 1940. By an order, the
validity of which is undisputed, its life was continued
into the February term. And on February 28, 1940, the
district court authorized a further continuance of this
grand jury during the March 1940 term. This is the order
which gives rise to the controversy, for upon its legality
depends the validity of the indictment thereafter returned by the grand jury. The disputed order reads as
follows:
"Now comes the Second December Term 1939 Grand
Jury for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, by Dorothy W. Binder, Forewoman, and in open
Court requests that an order be entered authorizing them,
the said Second December, 1939 Grand Jury, heretofore
authorized to sit during the February 1940 Term of this
Court, to continue to sit during the Term of Court succeeding the said February Term of Court, to-wit, the
March 1940 Term of Court, to finish investigations begun
but not finished by said Grand Jury during the said December 1939 and the said February 1940 Terms of this
Court, and which said investigations cannot be finished
during the said February 1940 Term of Court; and the
Court being fully advised in the premises,
"It Is Therefore Ordered That the Second December
1939 Grand Jury, now sitting in this Division and District,
be, and it is hereby authorized to continue to sit during the
March 1940 Term of Court for the purpose of finishing
said investigations."
The court below construed this order as authorizing the
grand jury to sit during March to enable it to finish investigations begun in February, while under the governing
statute, § 284 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 421,
it could be authorized only "to finish investigations begun
but not finished by such grand jury" during its original
term, i. e., the December 1939 term. So to read the order,
however, is to dissociate language from its appropriate
function and to disregard the historic r6le of the grand

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
503

Opinion of the Court.

jury in our federal judicial system. Since the law permits
a continuance of the grand jury "to finish investigations"
begun during its original term, the most elementary requirement of attributing legality to judicial action should,
unless violence is done to English speech, lead to a reading of the order of February 28 so as to restrict the grand
jury to that which it legally could do instead of to an
expansive reading making for illegality.
The foundation for the holding that the order extending
the grand jury into the March term purported to give
authority in defiance of the statute is the phrase in the
order reciting the grand jury's request'that it be authorized to continue its sitting during the March term "to finish investigations begun but not finished by said grand
jury during the said December 1939 and the said February
1940 Terms of this Court, and which said investigations
cannot be finished during the said February 1940 Term of
Court." The Circuit Court of Appeals read this to mean
that the grand jury requested a continuance into the
March term to finish investigations begun in the February as well as in the original December term. But surely
the recital "to finish investigations begun but not finished
by said grand jury during the said December 1939 and the
said February 1940 Terms," is, at the worst, dubious as to
what was begun and what was finished. Judge Evans
rightly resolved the ambiguity by reading the disputed
language "during the said December 1939 and the said
February 1940 Terms" as qualifying "finished" rather than
"begun," and therefore meaning that the grand jury was
unable to finish during the December and February terms
that which it had begun when it first came into being in
the December term. Such a rendering makes good English as well as good sense. To read it as the court below
read it is to go out of one's way in finding that the judge
who granted the order of extension either wilfully or irresponsibly did a legally forbidden act, namely, to allow

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

a grand jury to sit beyond the term and take up new instead of finishing old business. For the legal limitations
governing extension of the life of a grand jury do not lie
in a recondite field of law in which a federal district judge
may easily slip. Certainly every district judge in a great
metropolitan center like Chicago knows that in authorizing a grand jury to continue to sit "for the purpose of finishing" their "investigations," the "investigations" must
have been begun during the grand jury's original term and
that new domains of inquiry may not thereafter be entered
by the grand jury.
The failure of the court below to recognize the essential
function of the grand jury in our system of criminal justice is revealed by its subsidiary argument in regard to
the fourth count. Since that charges an attempted evasion
of Johnson's taxes for the year 1939, and since such an
attempt could not have become manifest prior to the filing
of hiq return on March 15, 1940, the court reasoned that
the "investigation" into this charge necessarily could not
have been begun prior to the March term and that it therefore constituted a "new" investigation. Such a view misconceives the duties and workings of a grand jury. It is
invested with broad investigatorial powers into what may
be found to be offenses against federal criminal law. Its
work is not circumscribed by the t~chnical requirements
governing the ascertainment of guilt once it has made the
charges that culminate its inquiries. A grand jury that
begins the investigation of what may be found to be
obstructions to justice or passport frauds or tax evasions
opens up all the ramifications of the particular field of
inquiry. Its investigation in such cases may be into a
course of conduct continuing during, and perhaps even
after, its inquiry. And Congress certainly did not restrict
a grand jury in dealing with all crimes disclosed by its
investigation. The very purpose of the Act of February
25, 1931, 46 Stat. 1417, 28 U. S. C. '§ 421, allowing grand

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
503

Opinion of the Court.

juries to continue investigations beyond the arbitrary
periods that constitute terms of court in the various federal districts, was to make the grand jury a more continuous and therefore more competent instrument of what
have become increasingly more complicated inquiries into
violations of the enlarged domain of federal criminal law.
That Congress did not have a restrictive view of the "investigations" which a grand jury was authorized to pursue
to completion beyond its original term is emphasized by
the Act of April 17, 1940, 54 Stat. 110, amending the Act
of 1931, supra. Under the original Act a grand jury was
not permitted to sit "during more than three terms." But
since the terms of court are of varying duration, a fact to
which the attention of Congress was directed by the experience particularly in the Southern District of New York,
Congress extended the potential life of a grand jury from
"three terms," which in some districts might be only three
months, to "eighteen months." The considerations which
induced Congress to enlarge still further the already ample
scope of grand jury investigations and the manner in which
the House committee report spoke of a grand jury's work,
see H. Rep. No. 1747, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., are but confirmation that that for which a grand jury may continue
its sitting is the general subject-matter on which it originally began its labors. It is not forbidden to inquire into
new matters within the general scope of its inquiry but
only into a truly new, in the sense of dissociated, subjectmatter.
One can hardly conceive of a clearer case of a continuing investigation of an old subject-matter than that presented here. The grand jury in December 1939 began
investigation into alleged tax evasions by Johnson. It
was allowed to continue its sitting during the February
term, and its authority was further extended to permit
it to sit during March. The grand jury found a systematic practice of tax evasion over a course of years, and

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

yet, so we are urged, it could not continue to ferret out
one more phase of this continuous course of fraudulent
conduct because that did not ripen into a separate offense
until the last term of the grand jury's sitting. So to hold
is to make of the grand jury a pawn in a technical game
instead of respecting it as a great historic instrument of
lay inquiry into criminal wrongdoing. See Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 65; Blair v. United States, 250 U. S. 273,
282; Cobbledick v. United States, 309 U. S. 323, 327.
By way of reinsurance of its main basis for invalidating
the indictment, the Circuit Court of Appeals relied on a
wholly different line of argument from that which we
have just rejected. It held that the preliminary motions,
by which the defendants sought to quash the indictment
because of the grand jury's illegality, raised issues of fact.
It therefore found that the district court, instead of granting the government's motion to strike the pleas in abatement, should have put the government to answer. The
indictment itself alleged that the grand jury "having begun but not finished during said December Term . . .
an investigation of the matters charged in this indictment,
and having continued to sit by order of this Court . . .
during the February and March Terms . . . for the purpose of finishing investigations begun but not finished
during said December Term. . . ." The court below
was apparently of the view that a mere denial of such a
solemn allegation by the grand jury puts its truth in issue,
that the burden is upon the government "to support it
with proof," and that failure to vindicate the authority
of the grand jury is "fatal." Assuming that under any
circumstances a grand jury's allegation that the indictment which it returns was the outcome of an investigation "begun" during its original term and was not a forbidden new investigation "begun" during an extended
term, within the meaning of § 284 of the Judicial Code,
28 U. S. C. § 421, presented a traversable issue, the cir-

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
503

Opinion of the Court.

cumstances that could raise such an issue would indeed
have to be extraordinary and the burden of establishing
it would rest heavily on defendants. Compare Roche v.
EvaporatedMilk Assn., ante, p. 21.
Were the ruling of the court below allowed to stand, the
mere challenge, in effect, of the regularity of a grand
jury's proceedings would cast upon the government the
affirmative duty of proving such regularity. Nothing
could be more destructive of the workings of our grand
jury system or more hostile to its historic status. That
institution, unlike the situation in many states, is part of
the federal constitutional system. To allow the intrusion,
implied by the lower court's attitude, into the indispensable secrecy of grand jury proceedings-as important
for the protection of .the innocent as for the pursuit of the
guilty-would subvert the functions of federal grand
juries by all sorts of devices which some states have seen
fit to permit in their local procedure, such as ready resort
to inspection of grand jury minutes. The district court
was quite within its right in striking the preliminary motions which challenged the legality of the grand jury that
returned the indictment. To construe these pleadings as
the court below did would be to resuscitate seventeenth
century notions of interpreting pleadings and to do so in
an aggravated form by applying them to the administration of the criminal law in the twentieth century. Protections of substance which now safeguard the rights of the
accused do not require the invention of such new refinements of criminal pleading.
Another ruling of general importance in the law of
criminal pleading was made by the Circuit Court of Appeals. It will be recalled that the first four counts charge
Johnson with attempts to defraud the revenue, and that
the other defendants are in the same counts charged as
aiders and abettors of Johnson. The court below ruled
that a demurrer of the defendants other than Johnson to

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.S.

those four counts should have been sustained. It found
that these counts were, as to the co-defendants, both inconsistent and duplicitous. They were deemed inconsistent in that the offenses against Johnson were charged
as of March 15th of each year, whereas the co-defendants
"as aiders and abettors are charged with an offense which
extended over a period of years." They were deemed
duplicitous in that the co-defendants were in each count
charged with conduct that aided and abetted Johnson
both before and after March 15th of the relevant year,
and were therefore, in the court's view, charged in the same
count as accessories both before and after the fact.
We are constrained to say that the court was led into
error by a misreading of the statutes which underlie these
counts and the allegations which laid the offenses. The
basis of each of the four counts, we have noted, is a penal
sanction in successive revenue laws, now generalized by
the provision in the Internal Revenue Code, 53 Stat. 63,
26 U. S. C. § 145 (b), which makes it a felony for any
person who, being subject to the income tax, "willfully
attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by this chapter or the payment thereof." Section
332 of the Criminal Code (18 U. S. C. § 550) makes every
person who "directly commits any act constituting an offense defined in any law of the United States, or aids,
abets, counsels, commands, induces, or procures its commission" a "principal." The vice of the lower court's
ruling is its misconception of the nature of the offense
defined by § 145 (b) with which Johnson is charged, as
well as that of the relation of aiders and abettors, made
principals by § 332 of the Criminal Code to such an offense.
In short, the Circuit Court of Appeals read the substantive
counts as though they charged Johnson merely with the
filing of false returns on March 15th. That may only be
a misdemeanor under § 145 (a) of the Internal Revenue
Code, but that is not the offense with which Johnson was

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
503

Opinion of the Court.

charged. He was charged with a felony made so by
§ 145 (b), the much more comprehensive violation of attempting "in any manner to defeat and evade" the payment of an income tax. The false return filed on March
15th was only one aspect of what was a process of tax
evasion. And all who contributed consciously to furthering that illicit enterprise aided and abetted its commission
and thereby, under § 332 of the Criminal Code, became
principals in the common enterprise. Therefore, nonparticipation in merely one phase of Johnson's attempted
evasion, namely, the filing of a false return on March
15th, is in itself irrelevant, and'it is equally irrelevant that
the aid which the co-defendants gave Johnson continued
after March 15th as well as preceded it. The crime of
each of the first four counts is the wilful attempt to evade
the payment of what was due to the revenue. All who
participated in that attempt were contributors -to the
illicit enterprise. There was only one offense in each
count, and all who shared in its execution have equal responsibility before the law, whatever may have been the
different r6les of leadership and subordination among
themselves. There is neither inconsistency nor duplicity
in these four counts and the demurrers to them were properly overruled.
There remain only questions pertinent to this case, and
more particularly whether the evidence warranted leaving
the case to the jury. This was a six weeks' trial of which
the record, even in the abbreviated form used on appeal,
runs over a thousand printed pages. We have painstakingly examined it all, but it would be unprofitable to give
more than the barest outline of what went to the jury.
The details sufficiently appear from the two opinions
below.
Johnson was a gambler on a magnificent scale. The
income which he himself reported from winnings for one
of the years in question exceeded a quarter of a million

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U.8.

dollars. The lowest annual income so reported for the
period is more than $100,000. His co-defendants were
plainly smaller fry in Chicago's gambling world. Their
reported annual gambling income during the same period
ranged from $3,600 to $19,000. Concededly Johnson
frequented some half-dozen gambling houses, ostensibly
separately owned by the others found guilty, excepting
only Brown who was the nominal owner of a so-called
currency exchange which furnished private banking facilities for these gambling houses. Indisputably, also, Johnson had a continuous and close relation to these gambling
houses. The decisive issue' of fact was whether Johnson's
relation to these resorts was that of a patron or of a proprietor. The testimony both for the government and for
the defendants focussed on that question. During the
course of his extensive testimony, Johnson himself put
simply and completely the only real problem before the
jury when he swore that he "never had any financial
interest in any gambling Club operated by any of the
defendants."
The jury decided this central issue against Johnson.
And the argument that there was not enough evidence on
which a jury was entitled to make such a finding does not
call for extended discussion. In making this ultimate
finding the jury must have found that the string of gambling houses with which Johnson was associated over a
period of years, while ostensibly conducted as separate
enterprises by his co-defendants in separate ownership,
was in fact a single unified gambling enterprise. A voluminous body of lurid and tedious testimony, often through
obviously unwilling witnesses, amply justified the jury
in finding that these pretended separate houses were under
a single domination. The testimony also amply justified
the conclusion that Johnson owned a proprietary interest
in this network of gambling houses and was not merely a
patron or an occasional accommodating dealer when other

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
503

Opinion of the Court.

patrons desired to play for stakes beyond the conventional
limit. Having been justified in finding that the individual
defendants were screens behind which Johnson operated,
the jury was also justified in finding that there were winnings from these houses on which Johnson attempted to
evade income tax payments. Even such records as were
kept in these houses were destroyed. But that these gambling transactions were on an enormous scale was overwhelmingly established. It is not to be expected that the
actual financial transactions of such a vast illicit business
would appear by direct proof. Compare United States v.
Wexler, 79 F. 2d 526. The long duration of this gambling
business, the substantial evidence of the operation of the
law of probability in favor of the houses, such records as
there were pertaining to the private banking facilities and
currency exchanges which were at the service of these
houses, made it not a matter of tenuous speculation but of
solid proof that there were winnings of a substantial
amount which Johnson did not report.
That he had large, unreported income was reinforced by
proof which warranted the jury in finding that certainly
for the years 1937, 1938, and 1939, the private expenditures
of Johnson exceeded his available declared resources. It is
on this latter ground-namely, that presumably Johnson's
expenditures justified the finding that he had some unreported income which was properly attributable to his earnings from the gambling hoUses-that the court below
thought that the evidence on three of the substantive
counts, those for 1937, 1938, and 1939, was sufficient to go
to the jury. That is enough to sustain the judgment
against Johnson, for the sentences on all the counts were
imposed to run concurrently.
Of course the government did not have to prove the
exact amounts of unreported income by Johnson. To
require more or more meticulous proof than this record
discloses that there were unreported profits from an elab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

orately concealed illegal business, would be tantamount
to holding that skilful concealment is an invincible barrier
to proof. ". . the probative sufficiency of the testimony has the support of the District Court (in which is
included the verdict of the jury) and of the Circuit Court
of Appeals. It would take something more than ingenious criticism to bring even into question that concurrence or to detract from its assuripg strength-something
more than this record presents." Delaney v. United
States, 263 U. S. 586, 589-90. And this considerationthe concurrence of both courts below in the sufficiency of
the jury's verdict-renders unnecessary further discussion of the verdict against all the defendants, including
Brown, on the conspiracy count. For while Brown was
also convicted on two substantive counts, the conspiracy
charge is sufficient to absorb his sentence.
Not many words are needed to dispose of the question
of the sufficiency of the evidence to warrant submission
to the jury of the substantive counts against the other
aiders and abettors, Sommers, Hartigan, Flanagan, and
Kelly.- In holding that the motion for directed verdicts
on the counts charging aiding and abetting should have
been granted, the court below was largely misled by its
erroneous conception, with which we have already dealt,
of the crime of aiding and abetting in the circumstances
of this case. In other words, as a matter of evidence as
well as a matter of pleading, the court was dominated by
the notion that the co-defendants did not aid and abet
Johnson if they actually did not share in the making of
his false return on each March 15th. The nub of the
matter is that they aided and abetted if they consciously
were parties to the concealment of his interest in these
gambling clubs of which they themselves pretended to be
proprietors. Evidence of conduct, acts and admissions,
amply warranted the trial court to send the substantive
counts against the aiders and abettors to the jury.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSON.
503

Opinion of the Court.

A ruling on evidence, much pressed upon us, must
finally be noticed. The court below held that the admission of the testimony of an expert witness regarding
Johnson's income and expenditures during the disputed
period invaded the jury's province. The witness gave
computations based on substantially the entire evidence
in the record as to Johnson's income. The Circuit Court
of Appeals held that while undoubtedly "a proper hypothetical question could have been framed and propounded," in fact the witness was not giving answers
on the basis of any assumption or hypothesis but as testimony on the "controverted issue" in the case. 123 F.
2d at 128. We do not so read the meaning of this testimony. No issue was withdrawn from the jury. The
correctness or credibility of no materials underlying the
expert's answers was even remotely foreclosed by the expert's testimony or withdrawn from proper independent
determination by the jury. The judge's charge was so
clear and correct that no objection was made, though,
of course, there were exceptions to the refusal to grant
the usual requests for charges that were either redundant
or unduly particularized items of testimony. The worth
of our jury system is constantly and properly extolled, but
an argument such as that which we are rejecting tacitly
assumes that juries are too stupid to see the drift of evidence. The jury in this case could not possibly have
been misled into the notion that they must accept the
calculations of the government expert any more than
that they were bound by the calculations made by the
defense's expert based on the defendants' assumptions of
the case. So long as proper guidance by a trial court
leaves the jury free to exercise its untrammeled judgment
upon the worth and weight of testimony, and nothing
is done to impair its freedom to bring in its verdict and
not someone else's we ought not be too finicky or fearful in allowing some discretion to trial judges in the con-

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of ROBERTS, J.

319 U. S.

duct of a trial and in the appropriate submission of
evidence within the general framework of familiar exclusionary rules.
The decision below must therefore be reversed and the
cause remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for proper
disposition in accordance with this opinion.'
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concurs in that portion of the

opinion which deals with the validity of the indictment.
He is of opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals should be affirmed because, in the case of
Johnson, substantial trial errors in the admission Of evidence operated to his prejudice, and, in the case of the
other defendants, because there was no evidence whatever to prove that they aided or abetted Johnson in any
effort to commit a fraud upon the revenue and none to
prove that they were parties to a conspiracy with him
having the same object.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, MR. JUSTICE JACKSON
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

and MR.

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

After the case came here, the Government asked that the petition
as to Flanagan, who had died, be dismissed. Accordingly, we dismiss
the writ as to Flanagan and leave the disposition of the fine that was
imposed on him to the Circuit Court of Appeals. See United States
v. Pomeroy, 152 F. 279, reversed in 164 F. 324.
I

