GREAT LAKES CO. v. HUFFMAN.
26

Syllabus.

ernment at any time. The Court sustained credit for the
benefits, pointing out that "there was nothing in the evidence indicating any probability that the Government
would at any time abrogate or curtail this right in any
respect." Id. at 420.
We think the same rule should apply against as for the
Government, and that the property in question was entitled to the benefits at the time being extended by State
authority in the absence of evidence of probability that
they would be abrogated or curtailed. We do not think
that because the power of eminent domain may have
been revocable by the State it follows as matter of law
that it must be treated as nonexistent, and we dissent
from a reversal based on such grounds.

GREAT LAKES DREDGE & DOCK CO.

ET AL. V.

HUFFMAN, ADMINISTRATOR, DIVISION OF
EMPLOYMENT SECURITY, LOUISIANA DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 849. Argued May 5, 6, 1943.-Decided May 24, 1943.
1. In the light of its opinion, findings, and conclusions of law, the
District Court's dismissal of the suit rests wholly upon its declaration that as applied to the plaintiffs the state statute is constitutional; and its judgment is, in effect, a declaratory judgment. P.295.
2. Where federal courts in the exercise of their jurisdiction to render
declaratory judgments are called on to adjudicate what are essentially equitable causes of action, they are free upon equitable grounds
to grant or withhold the relief prayed; and considerations which
have led federal courts of equity to refuse to enjoin the collection
of state taxes, save in exceptional cases, require a like restraint in
the use of the declaratory judgment procedure. P. 300.
3. It is in the public interest that federal courts of equity should exercise their discretionary power to grant or withhold relief so as to
avoid needless obstruction of the domestic policy of the States, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

when asked to enjoin an unconstitutional state tax it is their duty
to withhold relief when state law with the right of appeal to this
Court affords adequate protection. P. 300.
4. In a suit in the federal district court against a state officer charged
with the administration and enforcement of the Louisiana Unemployment Compensation Law, brought by plaintiffs engaged in
navigation and operation of vessels used in improving navigable
waters of the State, and praying a declaratory judgment that the
state law as applied to them and their employees is unconstitutional, it was the duty of the court to withhold such relief, it appearing that under the state law a taxpayer who pays a challenged
tax to the appropriate state officer may maintain a suit for
reimbursement. P. 300.
5. The Acts of August 21, 1937 and August 30, 1935 do not require
a result different from that here reached. P. 301.
134 F. 2d 213, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 318 U. S. 754, to review the affirmance of
a judgment, 43 F. Supp. 981, dismissing a suit for a declaratory judgment.

Mr. R. Emmett Kerrigan, with whom Mr. James J.
Morrison was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. W. C. Perrault,Assistant Attorney General of Louisiana, with whom Mr. Eugene Stanley, Attorney General, was on the brief, forrespondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners br6ught this suit in the district court against
respondent, a state officer charged with the administration
and enforcement of the Louisiana Unemployment Compensation Law (Act 97 of 1936, as amended by Act 164
of 1938, Act 16 of the First Extraordinary Session of 1940,
and Acts 10 and 11 of 1940). The complaint alleges that
petitioners have numerous classes of employees engaged in
the navigation and operation of dredges and pile drivers
and in the operation of quarter boats, tugs, launches,

GREAT LAKES CO. v. HUFFMAN.
293

Opinion of the Court.

barges and other vessels, all used in deepening, dredging,
extending and otherwise improving channels underlying
the navigable waters of the state; and that the tax or contribution to the state unemployment insurance fund which
the state law would exact from each of petitioners exceeded, when the suit was brought, the sum of $3,000. The
relief prayed is a declaratory judgment that the state
law as applied to petitioners and their employees is unconstitutional and void.
After a trial the district court held the statute applicable to petitioners and their employees and, as applied
to them, a valid exercise of state power. 43 F. Supp. 981.
The formal judgment ordered dismissal of the suit, but it
is to be interpreted in the light of the court's opinion, findings, and conclusions of law. Metropolitan Co. v. Kaw
Valley District, 223 U. S. 519, 523; Gulf Refining Co. v.
United States, 269 U. S. 125, 135; Clark v. Williard, 292
U. S. 112, 118; American PropellerCo. v. United States,
300 U. S. 475, 479-80. So interpreted it rests wholly on
the court's declaration that the statute applied to petitioners is constitutional; it is thus in effect a declaratory
judgment.
The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed, 134
F. 2d 213, holding that the statute, in exacting from employers contributions to the state unemployment compensation fund, is a valid exercise of the state taxing power
(see Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S.548; Carmichael v. Southern Coal Co., 301 U. S.495); that the application of the Act to petitioners would not interfere with
any characteristic feature of the general maritime law in
its interstate and international aspects so as to fall under
the ban of Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S.205
and cases following it; and that the Federal Social Security
Act, 26 U. S. C. § 1607 (c) (4), by exempting from its operation officers and crews of vessels, has not "preempted the

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

field" or otherwise precluded the state from applying its
law with respect to the employees in question.
Because of the public importance of the questions decided, we granted certiorari, 318 U. S. 754, and set the case
for argument with Standard Dredging Corp. v. Murphy
and InternationalElevating Co. v. Murphy, post, p. 306.
In our order granting the writ, we requested counsel "to
discuss in their briefs and on oral argument the question
whether the declaratory judgment procedure can be appropriately used in this case where the complaint seeks a
judgment against a state officer to prevent enforcement of
a state statute."
The state act, as the court below held, exacts of employers payments into the state unemployment insurance
fund, in the nature of an excise tax upon the exercise of the
right or privilege of employing individuals and measured
by a percentage of the wages paid. See Carmichael v.
Southern Coal & Coke Co., supra. Petitioners have challenged the state's right to collect the tax, and have interposed, as a barrier to the collection, the present suit in the
federal court for a declaratory judgment. The district
court, as we have indicated, has in substance given a
declaratory judgment, which the Circuit Court of Appeals
has sustained. Save for that purpose those courts had
no occasion to entertain the suit, or pronounce any judgment in it. Neither court, nor any of the parties, has questioned the sufficiency of the pleadings to present a case for
a declaratory judgment. Without raising that issue here
we pass at once to the question, submitted to counsel,
whether the declaratory judgment procedure may be appropriately resorted to in the circumstances of this case.
In answering it the nature of the remedy afforded to taxpayers by state law for the illegal exaction of the tax is
of importance. Section 18 of Article 10 of the Constitution of Louisiana of 1921 directs that: "The Legislature
shall provide against the issuance of process to restrain

GREAT LAKES CO. v. HUIFMAN.
293

Opinion of the Court.

the collection of any tax and for a complete and adequate
remedy for the prompt recovery by every taxpayer of any
illegal tax paid by him." And Act 330 of 1938 sets up
a complete statutory scheme to carry into effect the constitutional provision. By it the courts of the state are
forbidden to restrain the collection of any state tax; and
any person aggrieved and "resisting the payment of any
amount found due, or the enforcement of any provision of
such laws in relation thereto" shall pay the tax to the appropriate state officer and file suit for its recovery in either
the state or federal courts. Pending the suit the amount
collected is required to be segregated and held subject to
any judgment rendered in the suit. If the taxpayer prevails in the suit, interest at two per cent per annum is added
to the amount of taxes refunded.
. This Court has recognized that the federal courts, in the
exercise of the sound discretion which has traditionally
guided courts of equity in granting or withholding the extraordinary relief which they may afford, will not ordinarily restrain state officers from collecting state taxes
where state law affords an adequate remedy to the taxpayer. Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521. This withholding of extraordinary relief by courts having authority
to give it is not a denial of the jurisdiction which Congress
has conferred on the federal courts, or of the settled rule
that the measure of inadequacy of .the plaintiff's legal
remedy is the legal remedy afforded by the federal not the
state courts. Stratton v. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co., 284 U. S.
530, 533-34; Di Giovanniv. Camden Ins. Assn., 296 U. S.
64, 69. On the contrary, it is but a recognition that the
jurisdiction conferred on the federal courts embraces suits
in equity as well as at law, and that a federal court of
equity, which may in an appropriate case refuse to give
its special protection to private rights when the exercise of
its jurisdiction would be prejudicial to the public interest
(United States v. Dern, 289 U. S.352, 359-360; Virginian

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Ry. Co. v. Federation,300 U. S. 515, 549-53), should stay
its hand in the public interest when it reasonably appears
that private interests will not suffer. See Pennsylvaniav.
Williams, 294 U. S. 176, 185, and cases cited.
It is in the public interest that federal courts of equity
should exercise their discretionary power to grant or withhold relief so as to avoid needless obstruction of the domestic policy of the states.
"The scrupulous regard for the rightful independence of
state governments which should at all times actuate the
federal courts, and a proper reluctance to interfere by
injunction with their fiscal operations, require that such
relief should be denied in every case where the asserted
federal right may be preserved without it. Whenever the
question has been presented, this Court has uniformly held
that the mere illegality or unconstitutionality of a state or
municipal tax is not in itself a ground for equitable relief
in the courts of the United States. If the remedy at law
is plain, adequate, and complete, the aggrieved party is
left to that remedy in the state courts, from which the
cause may be brought to this Court for review if any federal question be involved." Matthews v. Rodgers, supra,
525-26.
Interference with state internal economy and administration is inseparable from assaults in the federkl courts on
the validity of state taxation, and necessarily attends injunctions, -interlocutory or final, restraining collection of
state taxes. These are the considerations of moment
which have persuaded federal courts of equity to deny
relief to the taxpayer-especially when the state, acting
within its constitutional authority, h.is set up its own
adequate procedure for securing to the taxpayer the recovery of an illegally exacted tax.
Congress recognized and gave sanction to this practice
of federal equity courts by the Act of August 21, 1937, 50

GREAT LAKES CO. v. HUFFMAN.
293

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 738, enacted' as an amendment to § 24 of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. §41 (1). This provides that "no district court shall have jurisdiction of any suit to enjoin,
suspend, or restrain the assessment, levy, or collection of
any tax imposed by or pursuant to the laws of any State
where a plain, speedy, and efficient remedy may be had at
law or in equity in the courts of such state." The earlier
refusal of federal courts of equity to interfere with the
collection of state taxes unless the threatened injury to
the taxpayer is one for which the state courts afford no
adequate remedy, and the confirmation of that practice
by Congress, have an important bearing upon the appropriate use of the declaratory judgment procedure by the
federal courts as a means of adjudicating the validity of
state taxes.
It is true that the Act of Congress speaks only of suits
"to enjoin, suspend, or restrain the assessment, levy, or
collection of any tax" imposed by state law, and that the
declaratory judgment procedure may be, and in this case
was, used only to procure a determination of the rights of
the parties, without an injunction or other coercive relief.
It is also true that that procedure may in every practical
sense operate to suspend collection of the state taxes until
the litigation is ended. But we find it unnecessary to inquire whether the words of the statute may be so construed
as to prohibit a declaration by federal courts concerning
the invalidity of a state tax. For we are of the opinion
that those considerations. which have led federal courts of
equity to refuse to enjoin the collection of state taxes, save
in exceptional cases, require a like restraint in the use of
the declaratory judgment procedure.
The statutory authority to render declaratory judgments permits federal courts by a new form of procedure
to exercise the jurisdiction to decide cases or controversies,
both at law and in equity, which the Judiciary Acts had
already conferred. Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth, 300
531559-44---23

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

U. S. 227. Thus the Federal Declaratory Judgments Act
(Act of June 14, 1934,48 Stat. 955, as amended, 28 U. S. C.
§ 400) provides in § 1 that a declaration of rights may be
awarded although no further relief be asked, and in § 2
that "further relief based on a declaratory judgment or
decree may be granted whenever necessary or proper."
The jurisdiction of the district court in the present suit,
praying an adjudication of rights in anticipation of their
threatened infringement, is analogous to the equity jurisdiction in suits quia timet or for a decree quieting title.
See Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.-Wallace, 288 U. S.
249, 263. Called upon to adjudicate what is essentially
an equitable cause of action, the district court was as free
as in any other suit in equity to grant or withhold the
relief prayed, upon equitable grounds. The Declaratory
Judgments Act was not devised to deprive courts of their
equity powers or of their freedom to withhold relief upon
established equitable principles. It only provided a new
form of procedure for the adjudication of rights in conformity to those principles. The Senate committee report
on the bill pointed out that this Court could, in the exercise
of its equity power, make rules governing the declaratory
judgment procedure. S. Rep. No. 1005, 73d Cong., 2d
Sess., p. 6. And the House report declared that "large
discretion is conferred upon the courts as to whether or
not they will administer justice by this procedure." H. R.
Rep. No. 1264, 73d Cong., 2d Seas., p. 2; and see Brillhart
v. Excess Ins. Co., 316 U. S. 491, 494; Borchard, Declaratory Judgments (2d ed.) p. 312.
The considerations which persuaded federal courts of
equity not to grant relief against an allegedly unlawful
state tax, and which led to the enactment of the Act of
August 21, 1937, are persuasive that relief by way of
declaratory judgment may likewise be withheld in the
sound discretion of the court. With due regard for these
considerations, it is the court's duty to withhold such relief

GREAT LAKES CO. v. HUFFMAN.
293

Opinion of the Court.

when, as in the present case, it appears that the state legislature has provided that on payment of any challenged tax
to the appropriate state officer, the taxpayer may maintain a suit to recover it back. In such a suit he may assert
his federal rights and secure a review of them by this
Court. This affords an adequate remedy to the taxpayer,
and at the same time leaves undisturbed the state's administration of its taxes.
The Act of August 21, 1937, was predicated upon the
desirability of freeing, from interference by the federal
courts, state procedures which authorize litigation challenging a tax only after the tax has been paid. See S. Rep.
No. 1035, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. R. Rep. No. 1503, 75th
Cong., 1st Sess. Even though the statutory command
be deemed restricted to prohibition of injunctions restraining collection of state taxes, its enactment is hardly
an indication of disapproval of the policy of federal equity
courts, or a mandatory withdrawal from them of their
traditional power to decline jurisdiction in the exercise of
their discretion.
For like reasons, we think it plain also that the enactment of the Act of August 30, 1935, 49 Stat. 1027, 28
U, S. C. § 400 (1), which excluded from the operation of
the Declaratory Judgments Act all cases involving federal
taxes, cannot be taken to deprive the courts of their discretionary authority to withhold declaratory relief in other
appropriate cases. This amendment was passed merely
for the purpose of "making-it clear" that the Declaratory
Judgments Act would not permit "a radical departure
from the long-continued policy of Congress" to require
prompt payment of federal taxes. See S. Rep. No. 1240,
74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 11; H. R. Rep. No. 1885, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 13.
The judgment of dismissal below must therefore be
affirmed, but solely on the ground that, in the appropriate
exercise of the court's discretion, relief by way of a declar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

atory judgment should have been denied without consideration of the merits.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES

ET AL.

v. JOHNSON.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 840. Argued May 11, 12, 1943.-Decided May 24, 1943.
Upon the facts of this case, the District Court should have granted
the Government's motion to dismiss the suit as collusive. P. 305.
48 F. Supp. 833, vacated.
APPEAL from the dismissal of a complaint in a suit in
which the United States had intervened and in which the
District Court held unconstitutional the Emergency Price
Control Act of 1942.

Mr. PaulA. Freund,with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, and Messrs.
Kenneth L. Kimble, Robert L. Wright, Richard S. Salant,
and Thomas I. Emerson were on the brief, for the United
States,
Mr. Vernon M. Welsh, with whom Mr. Weymouth
Kirkland was on the brief, for appellee.
PER CURIAM.

One Roach, a tenant of residential property belonging
to appellee, brought this suit in the district court alleging
that the property was within a "defense rental area"
established by the Price Administrator pursuant to §§ 2
(b) and 302 (d) of the Emergency Price Control Act of
1942, 56 Stat. 23; that the Administrator had promulgated
Maximum Rent Regulation No. 8 for the area; and that
the rent paid by Roach and collected by appellee was in

