CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
L. T. BARRINGER & CO. v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 520. Argued March 3, 1943.1-Decided May 3, 1943.
Section 2 of the Interstate Commerce Act forbids as an "unjust
discrimination" that any carrier, "directly or indirectly, by any special
rate, rebate, drawback, or other device," charge any person more
or less than another for "a like and contemporaneous service in the
transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions." Tariffs here under consideration,
approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission, eliminate the
loading charge on cotton moving from points in Oklahoma to certain
ports on the Gulf of Mexico, while retaining it on cotton moving to
the Southeast. Held:
1. Loading is Atransportation service to which § 2 applies. P. 6.
2. In determining whether the difference in the loading charge.
resulted in unjust discrimination, the Commission was entitled to
consider relevant differences in the "circumstances and conditions"
relating to the through line-haul rates. P. 7.
3. Considering the truck competition to the Gulf ports and the
relative rate structures, the determination of the Commission that
the reduction in the line-haul cost to the shipper, effected by rcmission of the loading charge, did not result in an unjust discrimination
was not lacking in rational basis. P. 10.
4. That the total through cost of the transportation service, of
which the loading charge is a component, may be open to attack
in a proceeding under § 13 (1) bringing the through rate into question

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

does not require a determination that the difference in the loading
charge constitutes an unjust discrimination. P. 10.
5. Section 6 (1) does not preclude the Commission from considering the validity of the imposition or elimination of a separately stated
loading charge in the light of its relationship to the through rate.
P. 12.
6. The facts which justify the Commission's finding that the
elimination of the loading charge does not result in an unjust discrimination, also justify its finding that the elimination of that charge
does not create an undue preference in violation of § 3 (1). P. 13.
7. The Commission's findings are adequately supported by substantial evidence of record. P. 14.
49 F. Supp. 637, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of a District Court of three judges

dismissing the complaint in a suit to enjoin and set aside
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Nuel D. Belnap, with whom Messrs. Luther M.
Walter and John S. Burchmore were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Robert L. Pierce, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Daniel W. Knowlton and J. Stanley Payne were on the
brief, for the United States et al.; and Mr. Roland J. Lehman, with whom Messrs. R. S. Outlaw, C. S. Burg, and
Clinton H. McKay were on the brief, for the Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co. et al.,- appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit by appellant, a shipper of cotton over the
lines of appellee railroads, brought under 28 U. S. C.
§ 41 (28), to enjoin and set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. The District Court of three
judges dismissed the complaint, and the case comes here
on direct appeal pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 47. The question is whether the Commission erred in refusing to set

BARRINGER & CO. v. U. S.
I

Opinion of the Court.

aside tariffs on cotton, filed by the five appellee railroads,
as unjustly discriminatory and unduly prejudicial to shippers in violation of §§ 2 and 3 (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act, 24 Stat. 379, 380; 49 U. S. C. §§ 2, 3 (1).
From the report of the Commission, on which its order
was based, 248 I. C. C. 643, the following facts appear.
Appellees carry cotton from points in Oklahoma to ports
on the Gulf of Mexico. Their lines also form relatively
short parts of the through routes over which cotton moves
from Oklahoma to points in the southeastern United
States. During recent years carriers of cotton to the Gulf
ports have been faced with serious truck competition. To
meet it, successive rate reductions have been made.
Until about ten years ago the only rates available on cotton
were less-than-carload rates, since individual shipments of
cotton are seldom, if ever, in carload quantities. As is
customary on less-than-carload shipments, the cotton. was
loaded at the expense of the carrier.'
• During 1932 and 1933 the carriers, in an effort to reduce rates and achieve operating economies, put in effect
so-called carload rates for cotton which the Commission,
after investigation, approved in Cotton From and to
Points in Southwest and Memphis, 208 I. C. C. 677. Under these rates the cotton was typically collected in lessthan-carload quantities at the ginning points, carried by
rail for short distances to compressors, and after compression assembled in carload quantities for shipment
'Loading is customarily performed at the carrier's expense on lessthan-carload freight, Loading Cotton in Oklahoma, 248 I. C. C. 643,
644, and at the shipper's expense on carload freight, Merchants Warehouse Co. w.United States, 283 U. S. 501, 506; PennsylvaniaR. Co. v.
Kittaning Co., 253 U. S. 319, 323; Loading and Unloading Carload
Freight, 101 I. C. C. 394, 396; McCormick Warehouse Co. v. Pennsylvania.R. Co., 148 I. C. C. 299, 300.

For discussions of loading practices on cotton in the Southwest, see
Cotton Loading Provisions in the Southwest, 220 I. C. C. 702; Cotton
Loading and Unloading in the Southwest, 229 I. C. C. 649.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

to destination. The shipper paid the local, less-than-carload rate to the compress point, and the local rate from
compress point to destination, but on the cotton's arrival
at destination the carrier refunded the difference between
the freight paid and the through, carload, rate from point
of origin to destination. On these rates loading was at
the shipper's expense; if the carrier performed the loading service a charge of 51/ cents a square bale was made,
which was paid by a deduction from the refund allowed
by the carrier on the transit settlement just referred to.

This loading charge was stated separately in appellees'
tariffs filed with the Commission, pursuant to § 6 (1).
Despite the reduction in cost to shippers produced by
the adoption of these schedules, truck competition continued to be a serious problem. In 1939 carriers of cotton from Texas points effected a further rate reduction by
eliminating the loading charge. The tariffs here under
consideration, filed by appellees to be effective on June 11,
1941, similarly eliminate the loading charge for cotton
moving from compress points in Oklahoma to certain
ports on the Gulf of Mexico,2 while retaining it on cotton
moving to the Southeast.
Appellant buys cotton in Oklahoma for resale to mills
in the Southeast. Under the proposed tariffs it must continue to pay the loading charge on cotton which it ships

to the Southeast, while merchants who ship to the Gulf
ports, and who compete with appellant in the purchase
of cotton, are relieved of that charge. Contending that
this situation would create an unjust discrimination under
§ 2, and would be unduly prejudicial under § 3 (1), appellant filed -apetition with the Commission under § 15
(7) to suspend the proposed tariffs.
Division 3 of the Commission, after a hearing in which
appellant participated, issued its report and order, refus2

Beaumont, Corpus Christi, Galveston, Houston, Orange, Port

Arthur, and Texas City, Texas, and Lake Charles, Louisiana.

BARRINGER & CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to set aside the proposed rates. It found that truck
competition had continued to increase during 1940, so as
to justify appropriate efforts by the carriers to meet such
competition; 3 that the loading charge caused annoyance
to shippers; that the cost of performing the loading service
was in most cases nominal and its performance by the carrier would result in loading to maximum capacity, so that
elimination of the charge was a suitable method of achieving a needed reduction in rates which were already low;
that carriers in states farther East opposed the extension
into their territory of the practice of free loading, and the
elimination by appellees of the loading charge on cotton
moving into that territory; that the "rates to the Southeast are already lower 'relatively than they are to the
Texas ports"; and that "there is no trucking of cotton
from Oklahoma . . . to the Southeast." Accordingly it
found that the proposed elimination of the loading
charge "is just and reasonable and not shown to be otherwise unlawful." Appellant's petition for reconsideration
was denied by the full Commission, and the proposed
rates, which had been suspended while under consideration by the Commission, became effective.
Appellant's principal contention is that, in considering
the validity of the proposed tariffs under § 2, the Commission could look only at the charge for the loading
service and was not entitled to consider conditions relating to the through line-haul rates. Section 2 of the Act
declares it to be an "unjust" and prohibited discrimination for any carrier "directly or indirectly, by'any special
rate, rebate, drawback, or other device," to charge one
person more or less than another for "a like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of
traffic under substantially similar circumstances and con3The Commission pointed out that carriers were free to adopt free
loading or not as they chose, and in the same proceeding approved an.
application of certain Texas carriers to re~stablish the loading charge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

ditions."

319 U. S.

It is undoubted that the loading service'here

involved is a transportation service to which § 2 applies.
§ 1 (3) (a); Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States,
283 U. S. 501, 511.
Section 2 is aimed at the prevention of favoritism
among shippers. See Sharfman, Interstate Commerce
Commission, vol. III-B, pp. 360-61. Where the transportation services are rendered under substantially similar conditions the section has been. thought to prohibit
any differentiation between shippers on the basis of their
identity, Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co., 225 U. S. 326, 342; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Delaware,L. & W. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235,
252, or on the basis of competitive conditions which may
induce a carrier to offer a reduction in rate to one shipper
while denying it to another similarly situated. Wight v.
UnitedStates, 167 U. S. 512,516-18; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168 U. S. 144,
166. Compare Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. United
States, 254 U. S. 57, 62. But differences in rates as between
shippers are prohibited only where the "circumstances
and conditions" attending the transportation service are "substantially similar." Whether those circumstances and conditions are sufficiently dissimilar to justify
a difference in rates, or whether, on the other hand, the
difference in rates constitutes an unjust discrimination
because based primarily on considerations relating to the
identity or competitive position of the particular shipper
rather than to circumstances attending the transportation
service, is a question of fact for the Commission's determination. Hence its conclusion that in view of all the.
relevant facts and circumstances a rate or practice either
is or is not unjustly discriminatory within the meaning
of § 2 of the Act will not be disturbed here unless we
can say that its finding is unsupported by evidence or
without rational basis, or rests on an erroneous construe-

BARRINGER & CO. v. U. S.
1

Opinion o: .he Court.

tion of the statute. SeaboardAir Line Ry. Co. v. United
States, supra, 62; Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Delaware,L. & W. R. Co., supra,251-2; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 740, 758; Merchants
Warehouse Co. v. United States, supra, 508; Baltimore
& Ohio,R. Co. v. United States, 305 U. S. 507, 524.
In considering the circumstances and conditions attending the transportation service, the Commission was
not required to ignore the fact that the loading charges,
although separately stated in the tariffs, are in each case
a component part of the total line-haul cost to the shipper
and inseparable from it. All the carrier loading costs not
compensated for by the loading charges, if any, to shippers, are necessarily absorbed by the carrier out of the
line-haul charges which shippers* pay. The loading
charge is not paid until the line haul is completed and the
ultimate destination known, and then only by a reduction
of the refund payable by the carrier on the transit settlement prescribed by the tariffs. And where cotton moves
on less-than-carload rates, the cost of loading is absorbed
by the carrier, although the loading services performed by
the carrier are the same. In these circumstances the net
effect, on the shipper's line-haul cost, of the remission
by the tariff of any part of the loading charge is precisely
the same as though the like reduction were made in the
line-haul tariff.
It has long been established by our decisions that differences in competitive conditions may justify a relativelylower line-haul charge over one line than another, and that
it is for the Commission, not the courts, to say whether
those differences are sufficient to show that a difference in
rates established to meet those conditions is not an unjust
discrimination or otherwise unlawful. Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. United States, 289 U. S. 627, 636-7, and cases
cited; Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S.
457, 481; United States v. Chicago Heights Trucking Co.,

8

OCTOBER, TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

310 U. S. 344, 352-53; Board of Trade v. United States,
314 U. S. 534, 546. It follows that competitive conditions
which would justify and render non-discriminatory a reduction in the line-haul tariff on a particular class of traffic,
would likewise justify the reduction and render it non-discriminatory if made in the loading charge instead.
Whether made in the one charge or the other, it enters
into the total cost of the line haul to the shipper, regardless
of whether the loading charge be separately stated or included in the line-haul tariff. Since the only effect on
the shipper is in the difference in the line-haul charge and
he is harmed no more by one method of effecting that
difference than the other, any conditions attending the
line haul which justify the one as non-discriminatory
equally justify the other.
. This Court has held that the Commission may
consider
the through line-haul rate in determining whether a related accessorial charge is just and reasonable under § 1
(5) (a). Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States,
232 U. S. 199, 219-220. We And nothing in § 2 or in our
decisions that precludes the Commission from similarly
looking at the whole. of the services rendered to different
shippers to determine whether the conditions are such as
to justify a difference in charges made for one component
part of that whole. Nor has the Commission found such a
limitation in the statute. Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.
v. Alton R. Co., 246 I. C. C. 421, 428, 430; Minneapolis
Traffic Assn. v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 241 I. C. C. 207,
220, 224; Railroad Comm'n of Wisconsin v. Ann Arbor
R. Co., 177 I. C. C. 588, 592; State Docks Commission v.
Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 167 I. C. C. 112, 115-116;
Tide Water Oil Co. v. Director General, 62 1. C. C. 226,
227; Richmond Chamber of Commerce v..Seaboard Air
Line Ry., 44 1. C. C. 455, 466.'
Insofar as Birkett Mills v. Delaware, L. &W. R. Co., 123 I. C. C
is to the contrary, it appears to rest on a misinterpretation a.

63, 65,

BARRINGER & CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

Obviously there is nothing in this construction of § 2
which would preclude the Commission from setting aside a
difference in a separately stated service charge which in
fact operates to discriminate unjustly among shippers.
We have repeatedly sustained a finding of the Commission that such a difference, based on a difference in identity
of shippers or the ownership of the goods shipped, or on
other circumstances irrelevant to the carrier service rendered, is an unjust discrimination to shippers. Wight v.
UnitedStates, supra;InterstateCommerce Commission v.
Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., supra; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., supra;Seaboard
Air Line Ry. Co. v. United States, supra; Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. United States, supra;Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, supra. The distinction between those cases and this is that here the difference in
the service charge is made between through shippers over
different routes, and is based on relevant differences in
the "circumstances and conditions" of the total transportation services rendered by the carriers. It was within
the competence of the Commission to find that this involved no unjust discrimination.
This is not to say that in every case where the differences in total transportation services rendered are ruch as
would justify a greater charge to one than to another
shipper, the difference in charge can at the carrier's option
be made in the charge for an accessorial service such as the
loading service here involved. But the decision whether
the circumstances and conditions are such as to justify a
difference in the accessorial charge, or rather to require
that any adjustment be made in the line-haul charge, is
one which the statute has left to the determination of the
the effect of our decision in Central R. Co. v. United States, 257 U. S.

247, 255. Moreover it does not appear that there were present in that
case any circumstances justifying a difference in the charges for the
total transportation services rendered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

Commission, which Congress has entrusted with the power
and duty of guarding against the prohibited favoritism.
In the circumstances of this case, we cannot set aside,
as lacking in rational basis, the Commission's determination that the reduction in the line-haul cost to the shipper
effected by remission of the loading charge did not result
in an unjust discrimination.
It is no answer to this determination of the Commission
to say that the rates here approved as non-discriminatory
may be open to attack in a proceeding under § 13 (1) to
adjust the line-haul rates in which all connecting carriers
who participate in the tariff are required to be parties by
Rule II (c) of the Commission's 1936 Rules of Practice, or
in a proceeding under § 15 (3) to establish divisions of the
through rates among the connecting carriers, "a matter
which in no way concerns the shipper," Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Sloss-Sheffield Co., 269 U. S.:217,234. Here
the difference in loading charge is assailed by a shipper
only, and on the grounds alone that it is unjustly discriminatory or unduly preferential. The discrimination or
preference, if any, is caused by the carriers who perform in
part the line-haul transportation service. The Commission has not undertaken to pass upon the validity of the
line-haul rates, and it does not appear that appellant has
asked it to do so. It has passed only on the question of
discrimination or preference resulting from the remission
of the loading charge. In doing so it has, as § 2 contemplates, looked at all the relevant circumstances and conditions, including the respective line-haul conditions, in
order to ascertain whether the loading service and line
hauls are made under substantially similar circumstances
and conditions with respect to the particular discrimination charged. The Commission has found that they are
not and that the difference in service charge is not unjustly
discriminatory as to shippers.
Section 2 gives us no mandate, and none is to be implied
from the statutory scheme, to reverse that finding and to

BARRINGER & CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

declare that the difference in service charge constitutes an
unjust discrimination merely because the total through
cost, of which that charge is a component, may be open to
attack in a proceeding bringing the through rate into

question.

See Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States,

supra, 479, 481. But unless we are to say that § 2 precludes the Commission from considering facts which are
relevant to the issue of discrimination which it must
decide, we perceive no other ground upon which their
consideration can be deemed forbidden.' In the present
5 The Commission has not interpreted its Rule II (c) as precluding it
from looking at relevant conditions and circumstances relating to the
through rate although only part of that rate is brought in issue in the
proceeding before it and other carriers participating in the through rate
have not been joined as parties. Where the attack is on a component
part of the through haul cost on grounds other than its effect on the
through rate structure, there is no occasion for joining the other carriers
participating in the through rate.
The Commission has frequently held that a complainant who attacks
a component part of a through rate as unreasonable or prejudicial
because of its effect on the through rate structure, must join all carriers
participating in the through rate. Stevens Grocer Co. v. St. Louis,
I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 42 I. C. C. 396, 397-8; cf. Cairo Association of
Commerce v. Angelina & N. R. R. Co., 160 I. C. C. 604, 608-9; Switching- at Minneapolis, 235 1 C. C. 405, 410. But it has also held that a
shipper who attacks the validity of a component part of a through rate,
viewed separately, and does not put in issue the validity of the through
rate as a whole, may do so without joining any carrier other than the
one responsible for the particular component under attack' Cairo
Board of Trade v. Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 46 I. C. C. 343,
350-51; Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce v. Cleveland, C., C. &
St. L. Ry. Co., 46 I..C. C. 546, 556; Phoenix Utility Co. v. Southern Ry.
Co., 173 I. C. C. 500, 501-2, and cases cited; see Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S. 768, 776-7. In the latter type of
ease, where the complaint puts in issue only the validity of one part of
a through rate, the Commission has held that the carrier is not precluded from introducing evidence to show that the rate attacked should
not be set aside as unlawful, in view of its relationship to the whole
through rate. Nebraska-Colorado Grain Producers Assn. v. C., B. &
Q. R. Co., 243 I. C. C. 309, 311-13; Fraser-Smith Co. v. Grand Trunk
531559-44-

5.

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

319 U. S.

proceeding the only question in issue is whether the proposed elimination of the loading charge is unjustly discriminatory or unduly prejudicial; nothing in the Commission's order or its Rules of Procedure forecloses attack on
the line-haul rates in an appropriate proceeding on any
ground which the statute authorizes.
Nor do we find anything in § 6 (1) which preclules the
Commission from looking at the entire through rate.
That section merely requires-carriers to file with the Commission all rates and charges established by them, and
to "state separately all terminal charges, storage charges,
icing charges, and all other charges which the Commission
may require, all privileges or facilities granted or allowed
."

Appellees have complied, with its requirement

that the loading charge, and the exceptions to it created
by the present tariffs, be separately posted. We have not
W. Ry., 185 I. C. C. 57, 62; Atkinson Milling Co. v. Chicago, M., St. P.

& P. Ry. Co., 235 I. C. C. 391, 393-4.

Nebraska-Colorado Grain Producers Assn. v. C., B. & Q. R. Co.,
supra, involved an attack on * component part of a through rate as
unreasonable and preferential. In denying complainant's motions to
exclude evidence introduced by the carrier relating to the through rate
structure of which the rate under attack was a part, the Commission
said: "The right to attack one factor of a combination through rate
without putting the through rate in issue presents an entirely-&dfferent
question from that raised by these motions. While we have consistently held, in the cases referred to by c6mplainant and supporting
interveners, that where reparation is not claimed, one factor of a com-

bination through rate may be assailed independently of the other factor
or factors or even of the through rate itself, this does not mean that we
may not look at the through situation." The Commission further
pointed out that, "Although we have authority to find separate components of through rates unlawful, we must, in doing so, give careful
consideration to the effect of such a finding on the through rates." 243
I. C. C. at 312, 313. Similarly in investigation and suspension proceedings under § 15 (7), where necessail'y the only rate in issue is that
proposed and under suspension, the Commission has deemed it proper
to consider the effect of the proposed rate on the through rate structure.
Livestock to Eastern Destinations, 156 I. C. C. 498, 509.

BARRINGER & CO. v. U. S.
t

Opinion of the Court.

construed § 6 (1), which is designed to insure publicity of
rates, Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Albers Commission
Co., 223 U. S. 573, 596-7, as precluding a carrier from performing an accessorial service free of charge provided no
violation of any other section of the Act is show'iL See
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Stickney, 215 U. S. 98,
105. Nor does it preclude the Commission from considering the validity of the imposition or elimination of such
a separately-stated charge in the light of its relationship
to the through rate. Compare Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.
Co. v. United States, supra.
What we have said of § 2 suffices also to dispose of the
objection based on § 3 (1). That section makes it unlawful to give an "undue or unreasonable preference or
advantage" to, or impose an "undue or unreasonable
prejudice or disadvantage" on, any "perion, company,
firm, corporation, association, locality, port, port district,
gateway, transit point, region, district, territory, or any
particular description of traffic." It differs from § 2 in
that it may be availed of not only by shippers but by
any other person who has been or may be injured by an
inequality of rates.
But the facts which we hold sufficient to justify the
Commission's finding that the elimination of the loading
charge does not result in an unjust discrimination, are
sufficient also to justify its finding that the elimination
of that charge does not create an undue preference. Compare Clover Splint Coal Co. v. Louisville & Nashville
R. Co., 197 I. C. C. 276, 277. We have frequently sustained the Commission's determination, in cases arising
under § 3, that differences in competitive conditions justify
lower through rates over one route than over another.
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, supra; Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
162 U. S. 197, 205-217; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
Chicago Great Western Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 108, 119,
121-2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DouGAs, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

We cannot say here, any more than under § 2, that the
Commission could not regard the truck competition to
the Southwest, and the relative rate structures, disclosed
in its report, as sufficient to warrant the difference in the
cost of the through haul which results from the elimination of the loading charge by the present tariffs.
We have considered appellant's attack on the sufficiency
of the evidence to support the Commission's findings, and
conclude, as did the court below, that they are adequately
supported by substantial evidence of record. Compare
Floridav. United States, 292 U. S. 1, 12; Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, supra, 508.
Affirmed.
MR.JusrIcE DOUGLAs, dissenting:
Sec. 2 of the Act makes it unlawful for any common
carrier "by any special rate, rebate, drawback, or other
device" to receive from any person "a greater or less compensation for any service rendered" in the "transportation" of passengers or property than it receives from any
other person for doing for him "a like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions." Loading is clearly a "service rendered" in the
"transportation" of property Iwithin the meaning of § 2.
See Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
501. The practice which is now held to be free from the
charge of unlawful discrimination under § 2 is the practice of loading cotton free for certain shippers who ship
to one destination and exacting a loading charge from
others who ship from the same points but to a different
destination. That is to say, free loading of cotton is allowed shippers who ship cotton from Oklahoma to the
1 (3) (a) defines "transportation" so as to include "all services in connection with the receipt, delivery . . .and handling of
1Sec.

property transported."

-

BARRINGER & CO. v. U. S.
Douams, J., dissenting.

Texas Gulf ports; a loading charge2 is required from those
who ship cotton from the identical places in Oklahoma to
the Southeast.
The Commission in its report justified that discrimination on the following considerations: (1) there is no
trucking of cotton between points in Oklahoma and the
Southeast, while there is considerable truck competition
in the movement of cotton from Oklahoma to the Texas
Gulf ports; (2) carload rates on cotton from Oklahoma
to the Southeast are on a relatively lower basis than carload rates from the same origins to the Texas Gulf ports;
and (3) rates from points in Oklahoma both to the Southeast and to the Texas Gulf ports are depressed. The Commission in its report made no specific reference to § 2.
It now seeks to sustain its order on the ground that the
conditions surrounding the respective line-hauls justified
the carriers in absorbing the loading charge in the line-haul
rates for one shipper but not for another. It endeavoi s
to avoid the issue of discrimination by contending that
§ 2 as a matter of law has no application to the present
situation. Its argument is that § 2 does not apply where
the line-hauls are not over the same line, for the same
distance, and to the same destination. That contention is
based on Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512, which the
Commission claims to have followed consistently."
The loading charge is 5.50 per square bale of cotton and 2.750 per
round bale. This loading rate is carried separately in the tariffs as
is required by § 6 (1) of the Act. See Tariff Circular 20 (I. C. C. 1933),
Rule 10 (a).
8Richmond Chamber of Commerce v. Seaboard Air Line Railway,
44 I. C. C. 455, 46466; Pacific Lumber Co. v. N. W. P. R. Co.,
51 1. C. C. 738, 760; Tide Water Oil Co. v. Director General, 62
I. C. C. 226, 227; Standard Oil Co. v. Director General, 87 I. C. C.
214; Bunker Hill &Sullivan M. & C. Co. v. N. P. Ry. Co., 129 I. C. C.
242, 246; Cane Sugar from Wisconsin to Minnesota, 203 I. C. C. 373,
376; Miller Waste Mills, Inc. v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 226
I. C. C. 451,453.
2

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DouaAs, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

I disagree with that construction of § 2. The Wight
case involved a rebate by one road of a part of the rate between Cincinnati and Pittsburgh and was made on account of drayage at the Pittsburgh end. The Court held
that § 2 was violated, saying that that section "prohibits
any rebate or other device by which two shippers, shipping over the same line, the same distance, under the same
circumstances of carriage, are compelled to pay different
prices therefor." 167 U. S. p. 518. It does not follow
that § 2 applies only where those identical conditions
exist. Thus in Birkett Mills v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co.,
123 I. C. C. 63, the Commission had before it a complaint
of millers, grain dealers, and elevator companies in New
York respecting different transit charges on ex-lake and
all-rail traffic, the transit charges being separately established. It held that "as the differing transit charges are
for the same transit services at the same points by the
same carriers, unjust discrimination under section 2 of
the act exists." p. 65. No reference was made to linehaul conditions, though the relation between transit privileges and rate structures is intimate. Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S- 768; Board of Trade v.
United States, 314 U. S. 534. And the principles of the
Birkett Mills case have been applied by the Commission to
other situations where the haul was not over the same line,
for the same distance, and to the same destination. Sufferb Grain Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 22 I. C. C. 178,
183-184; Washington, D. C., Store-Door Delivery, 27
I. C. C. 347.
It was stated in Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Baltimore& Ohio R. Co., 145 U. S. 263, 284, that "any fact
which produces an inequality of condition and a change
of circumstances justifies an inequality of charge."
Those inequalities of conditions may relate to the circumstances of carriage. But the fact that different rates for
carriage are warranted does not necessarily mean that dif-

BARRINGER & CO. v. U. S.
1

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

ferent rates for identical accessorial services in connection
with the carriage are justified. The Court stated in Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, supra,p. 511, that
"Section 2 forbids the carrier to discriminate by way of
allowances for transportation services given to one, in connection with the delivery of freight at his place of business, which it*denies to another in like situation." And
see Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 305 U. S.
507, 524. By the same token, there is a forbidden discrimination, in case of an accessorial service such as lo-ading, where different rates are charged different shippers
though the physical services rendered during the loading
are alike.
But it is said in reply that there is nothing in § 2 which.
limits the phrase "under substantially similar circumstances and conditions" to the circumstances surrounding
the particular accessorial service in question; and that it is
a factual issue for the informed judgment of the Commission whether line-haul conditions are to be considered
in determining the validity of separate charges for services such as loading. The answer, however, seems clear.
The service of loading, like the transit service in the Birkett Mills case, is identical whether the property is going
south or southeast, whether its journey is long or short,
whether it is transported by one carrier or another. A
carrier which is loading in Oklahoma one car of cotton
for a southeastern mill and another car of cotton for a
Gulf port is certainly performing a "like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of
traffic under substantially similar circumstances and conditions." A carrier which is loading two cars at the same
time, on the same siding, with the same commodity is
indeed performing. the same service under the same circumstances and conditions. To charge the first shipper
for loading his car and to load the other one free would
be to impair the rule of equality which § 2 was designed

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DouGL~s, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

to inaugurate. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235; Louisville & Nashville R.Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 740, 749-750. The
result in the present case is a gross discrimination against
shippers to the Southeast."
There may be cases of special charges for special services
where the validity of the rate under § 2 is dependent on
whether the line-haul conditions are the same.' Yet § 2,
though primarily related to the line-haul, is not restricted
to it. Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, supra.
At least where the service in question is purely accessorial,
§ 2 is applicable though the line-hauls are not over the
same line, for the same distance and to the same destination. Where § 2 is applicable, competitive factors
(such as those on which the Commission relied) are
no justification for the discrimination. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168
U. S. 144, 166; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 225 U. S. 326, 342; SeaboardAir Line
Ry. Co. v. United States, 254 U. S. 57, 62; Absorption
of Loading Charge, 161 I. C. C. 389, 391; Allowance for
Driving Horses, 227 1. C. C. 387, 389. The justification
under § 2 for "unequal rates must rest in the facts of carriage and not in the financial interests of the carrier."
Sharfman, The Interstate Commerce Commission, Pt. 3,
Vol. B, p. 371.
There are, of course, occasions when a consideration of
the line-haul rate in relation to the charge for an accessorial
4 None of the carriers to the Southeast serves the Gulf ports. Appellee carriers have only a short part of the line-haul on cotton from
Oklahoma to the Southeast.
5 The Commission apparently has so treated the problem of absorption of switching charges. See Tide Water Oil Co. v. Director Gen-

eral, 62 I. C. C. 226; Restriction of Kansas City Switching District,
146 I. C. C. 438, 440. And see Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. United
States, 254 U. S.57. Cf. United States v. American Tin Plate Co.,

301 U. S.402.

BARRINGER & CO. v. U. S.
DOuGLAS, J., dissenting.

service is proper. That is the case where a rate has been
challenged under § 1 (5) (a) as not being "just and reasonable." In that event it is wholly proper to determine
whether elements of cost not provided in the separate rate
are in fact included in the line-haul rate. Atchison, T.
& S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 232 U. S. 199, 219-220;
Perishable Freight Investigation, 56 I. C. C. 449,461-465;
Alton & Southern R. Co. v. United States, 49 F. 2d 414,
417-428. But the issues framed by § 1 (5) (a) are larger
than the more limited ones under §2. And though the
rate is just and reasonable under § 1, it may nevertheless
create an unjust discrimination under § 2. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 145
U. S. 263, 277; American Express Co. v. Caldwell, 244
U. S. 617, 624; United States v. Illinois Central R. Co.,
263 U. S. 515, 524.
But it is said that the loading charge is a component
part of the total line-haul charge; that competitive conditions would justify a reduction in the line-haul tariff; and
that a shipper is affected no more by an increase or decrease in one than in the other. It is therefore argued'
that changes in the charge for this accessorial service may
be treated the same as if the line-haul tariff were in issue.
That argument, however, results in this: an adjustment
in charges for accessorial services such as loading is utilized
as an indirect method of adjusting line-haul rates. That
is not permitted under this statutory system. Although
charges for services such as loading are a part of the total
line-haul charge, they must be separately stated in the
tariffs. § 6 (1); Rule 10 (a), supra, note 2. This proceeding put in issue not the line-haul tariff but the separately stated charge for loading, since the amended tariff
made no change in the former. To allow this proceeding
to be used to adjust indirectly the line-haul tariff is to
circumvent the Act. The difference between the removal
of a discrimination and the adjustment or fixing of rates

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DouGAS, J., dissenting.

319 U. S.

has long been recognized. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v.
United States,245 U. S. 136, 145. The present line-haul
rate is a through or joint rate in which carriers other than
the appellee roads participate. Those other carriers are
not parties to this proceeding; nor does it appear that
they have consented to any adjustment of the line-haul
rates. Congress has prescribed in § 15 (3) how those rates
may be adjusted. It may be done only after a "full
hearing," which means that all other carriers who are
parties to the tariff must be joined. Stevens Grocer Co.
v. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 42 I. C. C. 396, 398; McDavitt Bros. v. St. Louis, B. & M. Ry. Co., 43 I. C. C.
695; United States v. Abilene & So. Ry. Co., 265 U. S.
274, 283, note 6; Rules of Practice (I. C. C. 1936), Rule II
(c) and (d). And the Commission may then adjust the
through rates or joint rates either with or without the
consent of the carriers. St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v. United
States, supra. On the other hand, the loading charge,
like the transit privilege involved in Central R. Co. v.
United States, 257 U. S. 247, 255, 259, is.a tariff for which
other carriers participating in the through or joint rates
are not necessarily responsible. In short, Congress has
prescribed the procedure for obtaining adjustments of
line-haul rates. That method is different from the one
provided for adjusting a separate tariff of the kind we
have here. We should not allow the procedure for readjusting line-haul rates to be circumvented through the rebate route. Cf. CentralR. Co. v. United States, supra.
The determination by the Commission on the question
of discrimination under § 2 is ordinarily a question of
fact. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Tennessee, 262
U. S. 318, 322. Its findings on that issue are entitled to
great weight (SeaboardAir Line Ry. Co. v. United States,
supra) and will be given the respect which expert judgment on the intricacies of rate structures deserves. But
disregard of the statutory standards is another matter.
Central R. Co. v. United States, supra.

ROCHE v. EVAPORATED MILK ASSN.

21

Syllabus.

Since I would rest the reversal of the judgment below
on §2, it is not necessary for me to reach the issues raised
under § 3.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR.
JUSTICE REED join in this dissent.
ROCHE, U. S. DISTRICT JUDGE, ET AL. v. EVAPORATED MILK ASSOCIATION Er AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 584. Argued April 6, 1943.-Decided May 3, 1943.
1. The Circuit Court of Appeals is empowered by § 262 of theJudicial
..Code to issue all writs, not specifically provided for by statute, which
may be necessary for the exercise of its jurisdiction, agreeably to
the usages and principles of law. P. 24.
2. As the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals is exclusively
appellate, its authority to issue writs of mandamus is restricted to
those cases in which the writ is in aid of that jurisdiction. P. 25.
3. The authority of the Circuit Court of Appeals to issue writs of
mandamus is not confined to the issuance of writs in.aid of a
jurisdiction already acquired by appeal but extends to those. cases
which are within its appellate jurisdiction aithough no appeal has
been perfected. P. 25.
granted-or"
4. The common law writs, like equitable remedies, may be
withheld in the sound discretion of the court. P. 25.
5. In the circumstances of this case, issuance by theCircuit Court of
Appeals of a writ of mandamus, directing the District Court to reinstate the defendants' pleas in abatement to an indictment for viola-,
tion of the Sherman Act and to set for trial the issues raised by the
pleas and replications, was inappropriate. P. 25.
The District Court's order striking the pleas in abatement was
an exercise of its jurisdiction and involved no abuse of judicial power;
the legislation and policy of Congress by which an appellate review
of such orders may be had only on review of -a final judgment. of
conviction are not to be circumvented by resort to mandamus.
6. Where the appeal statutes establish the conditions of appellate
review, an appellate court can not rightly exercise its discretion to

