OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S

CINCINNATI, NEW ORLEANS AND TEXAS PACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY v. J. SLADE AND E. M. PLESS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 79.

Argued January 14, 1910.-Decided January 31, 1910.

Where the state court decides that, under the law of the State the
constitutionality whereof is not attacked, the action of defendant
in giving replevy bond and answering amounted to a general ap-

pearance and waiver of objection to jurisdiction based on a Federal
ground, the ruling of general appearance rests on a non-Federal
ground sufficient to sustain it and cannot be reviewed by this court.
Where plaintiff in error did not set u1) in the state court the contention
that the contract of interstate shipment should be construed according to the act of Congress regulating interstate shipments
instead of by the law of the State where made, but on the contrary,
contended that it should be construed by the law of the State of
destination and trial of the case, the record presents no Federal
question properly set up in tL.e court below that can be considered
by this court.
Writ of error to review 3 Ga. App. 400, dismissed.

THE Cincinnati, New Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway
Company-hereafter referred to as the railway company-is a
corporation organized under the laws of Ohio, and operates
lines of railroad in several States other than Georgia.
On May 14, 1907, Pless & Slade, a .partnership, asserting a
claim against the railway company, resulting from the alleged
negligent carriage of a carload of horses and mules, received at
a point in Kentucky, for through carriage to Pless &*Slade, at
Cordele, Georgia, procured an attachment to be issued from
the City Court of Cordele, under which a box car belonging
to the company was seized. The railway company gave "a
replevy bond, or a bond to release the attachment, .
and on the filing of such bond the attachment became dissolved." The railway company, specially entering its appear-

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. SLADE.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ance, moved to quash, first, upon the groiuid that it was a
foreign corporation, and had no agent, office or place of business and transacted no business in the State of Georgia, and
was not susceptible of being therein sued; and, second, because the box car came into the State under a contract of interstate shipment, and could not be attached in Georgia without imposing a direct burden upon interstate commerce, in
violation of the laws of the United States regulating that subject. On July 26, 1907, the plaintiffs demurred to the motion
to quash and filed an answer to the same, and on the same (lay
filed their declaration in attachment. On August 3, 1907, the
railway company, aplpearihlg only for that )urpose, filed a.
formal plea to the jurisdiction of the court. I this plea, with
great elaboration, the grounds pre viously asserted in the
motion to quash were reiterated. The plainitiffs demurred to
this plea, and also answered the same. Both deliu rrers, the
one to the motion to quash and the other to the l)lea to the
jurisdiction, were heard together. The demurrers were sustained, and exceptions were duly reserved. Thereupon'the
railway company both deiurred to and answered the declaration in attachment. The dernurrer challenged the sufficiency
of the declaration to show jurisdictiol in the court, because it
was not averred that the railway company was transacting
business or had an office, agent or place of business in the
county where the suit was brought or in the State of Georgia;
that it was not charged that the acts of negligence for which
recovery was sought had been committed in the State of
Georgia; and because, o)n the contrary, the contract relied upon
in the declaration was stated therein to have been made in
Kentucky. The ans~ver, after reserving the betefit of the demnurrer, traversed the declaration oii the merits, and as a
special defense again set up that the railway company had no
line of road in the State or agent therein, and transacted no
business in Georgia, and therefore was not subject to be therein
sued. Concerning the box car which had been attached it was
specially set up, that in order to save breaking bulk and re-

OCTBE1

T.ERM, 1q909.

Opinion of tie Court.

216 U. S.

loading at connecting points, the railway comllpany, had an
agreement with connecting carriers by which its cars, when
loaded on its line with freight for )oints in Georgia, should not
be unloaded at the terminus of the coipany's Poad, but should
be transferred to the comecting carrier for delivery in Georgia,
such carrier coming under an obligation to return -the cars
with all possible dispatch. It was alleged that the car in question was delivered under these circumstances, and was hence
not subject to attachment in Georgia.
The demurrer was overruled. The court also sustained'a
demurrer filed on behalf of the plaintiffs to th6. special defenses
set up by the railway company in its answer, to which we have
previously adverted. To these rulings of the court exceptions
were noted by the railway company and made palrt of the
record. The case wvent to trial upon the merits, and at the
close of the evidence the court directed a verdict for the plaintiffs. The case was taken to the Court of Appeals of Georgia,
where the judgment was affirmed. Cincinnati, N. 0. & T. P.
R. Co. v. Pless & Slade, 3 Ga. App. 400. This writ of error to
the Court of Appeals was allowed by the chief judge upon the
ground that the Court of Appeals was the highest court of the
State in which a decision in the suit could be had, and upon
the averitents made in the petition for the allowance of a writ
of error, that grounds of Federal cognizance were presented
by the record.
Mr. D. A. R. Crut., with.whom Mr. J. Gordon Jonc" wa on
the brief, for plaittiff in error.
Mr. Joseph T. Hill for defendant in error.
M-R. JUSTICE WHIrE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the, court.

In the trial on the merits it was shown that a shipment of
live stock had been made from a point in Kentucky under a

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. SLADE.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Cotirt.

contract with the railway company for delivery at Cordele,
Georgia, the contract contemplating the movement of the
shipment over the line of the railway company and the transfer
by it of the car to connecting carriers for delivery at the point
of destination. It was this contract of shipment out of which
it was alleged the claim arose which was the basis of the attachment. The railway company offered in evidence the written
contract, 'and then rested its defense. This contract of shipment contained various provisions limiting the common law
liability of the railway company. Thereupon the record recites
as follows:
"Mr. Hill offers in evidence for plaintiff section
196 of the
constitution of the State of Kentucky, as follows:
"'Transportation of fright aid passengers Iy railroad,
steamboat, or other carrier, shall be so regulated, by general
law, as to pr(vent injust diseriminatioil. No common carrier
shall be permitted to contract for relief from its common law
liability.'
"Mr. Jones [for railway, company] objects, that the regulation as provided for in this section should accompany it, and
unless it does it is irrelevant and inadmissible; that it is merely
a paragraph of the constitution of the State giving the legislature and laws. He further objects to it on the ground that
this suit is brought under the Georgia laws, and is not a suit on
a Kentucky contract.
.' ."Objection overruled.
"Plaintiff announces closed.
"Mr. Hill moves the court to direct a verdict for plaintiff
for the amount sued for.
"Mr. Jones [for railway company] insists that the contract
offered is a legal contract, anid forms an issue for the jury to
pass upon."
Concerning the questions of jurisdiction raised by the pleadings, the Court of Appeals, to which the case was taken, held
as follows: 1st. That by the requirements of ยง 4575 of the
Georgia Civil Code, and by the application of the law of the
VOL. CXVI-0

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

State as expounded in :epeated decisions of the Supreme
Court, "the giving of the replevy bond was a general appearance by the defendant, dissolving the attachment and converting it from an action in rein into an action in personarn."
2d. That under the law of the State, "Ithe filing of a general
cleinurrer or an answer not.under protestation, and without
(xpressly reserving the special appearance, waives the special
appearance.'' Applying these general propositions, it was decided that "the defendant having,, by filing a replevy bond,
a demurirer, and an answer, submitted itself personally to
the jurisdiction of the court, with the right to make only
such dfellses as it could have made if it had been personally
served with process, and the surety on the replevy bond iaking no eolnplaintagainst the judgment, it Ilecomes immaterial
whether the levy of the attachment was regular or not, or
whether the prope rty seized was subject to levy; and these
questions are therefore not for decision. King v. Randall, 95
Georgia, 449. The defendant had the right to replevy irrespective of whether the property was subject or not subject to
the levy. S'ift v. Tatner, 89 Georgia, 660, 673." In affirming
the judgment on the mierits, the contract of shipmen t out of
which the controversy arose was treated as a Kentucky contract. -Certain limitations therein were held to be void under
the laws of that State, and other provisions which were held
not to be repugnant to those laws were decided not to exempt
the railway company from liability.
The assignments of error are eleven in number, but when the
reiterations which they contain are put out of view it is apparent onltheir face that, in their broadest aspect, they embrace only two questions of a Federal nature: First, that the
trial court did not acquire jurisdiction over the railway company, as the levy upon the box car was a direct burden upon
and at all events was repugnant to the legislation of Congress
on the subject of interstate commerce; and, second, that a
right under the same legislation to the benefit of the laws of the
United States in construing the contract of shipment upon

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. SLADE.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which the cause of action arose was denied by the decision of
the state court. But as we have previously shown, on the face
of the record it is apparent that the Court of Appeals did not
pass upon the question whether the levy of the attachment was
regular or whether the property seized was subject to levy. It
held, construing the statutes of Georgia relating to attachments and the decisions of the highest court of the State that
it was unnecessary to decide those questions, because they had
been waived by the conduct of the railway company in giving
a replevy bond and answering &c., without protestation. It
follows that no .Federal question is presented as to the issue
concerning jurisdiction, since the ruling below was based exclusively upon a non-Federal ground broad enough to su8stain
it without considering or rferring to the alleged Federal question. It is besides to be observed that the plaintiff in error in
argument does not question the correctness of the deductions
drawn by the court below from the prior decisions of the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia. Indeed, there is nothing
in the record showing that any question was raised below as
to the repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States of
the statute of-Georgia concerning the giving of a bond to release attached property as construed by the Supreme Court of
Georgia. See, in this connection, the cases, of York. v. Texas,
137 U. S. 15, 20; Kauffman v. Wooters, 138 U. S. 285, and
Mexican Central R. R. Co. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194, 205.
The second proposition is, that, as the court below construed the contract of shipment upon which the cause of action
depended by the law of Kentucky where it was made instead
of by the laws of the United States regulating interstate commerce, thereby a Federal right was denied. But this contention is at once disposed of by saying that the assertion of Federal right upon which it rests finds no support in the record,
as it does not appear to have been urged below or called to the
attention of or decided by the appellate court. On the contrary, as we- have previously shown, the contention made at
the trial by the railway company was not that the contract of

OCTOIUEIR TINI.01, 1909).
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

shipment was to be(governed I)y the laws of the United States,
but that it shoukl be treated as a Georgia and not as a Kentucky contract.
From these, consideratioils it rsults that the record )resents
no Federal question, and the writ of error is therefore dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.
'Dismissed.

C(ONLEY v. BAIIANGIKH, SI'E:I'i1TAKY OF TIE INR.1
TIHAHO(
AITIKAL lF'I.)MlTH

CIE

Tll,

No. 77.

CMlNll''
',)IT
OF1 Till, IINITIDI

STATE'S FOR)

I)IC'RI('T O1" KANSAS.

Argued i.aualry 1I4, 110.-]1)ccihld ,Ianuary 31, 1910.

There is no (luestion as to the comlplete legislative power of he United
States over the land of the \\yandotte ln(dians while it remained

in their occupation, and piarcels ccxcelted from the gencral distribution under the trcaty of 1S55 continued under such legislative
control for the benefit of the trihe.
While the United States maintains and protects Indian use of land
and its occupation against others it is.hbonl itself only by honor
and not hy law, and it will not he lreIui ied to have abandoned at
any time its attitude of protection towards its wards.
Nor is its
good faith brokeni by any, change in disposition of property believed by Congress to be for the welfare of the Indians.
Even if a suit to enjoin di s position of property reserved by the treaty
of 1855 xvith the Wyandottes for cemetery use is not 6 suit against
the United tates, a descendant of an Indian buried in such cemetery
cannot maintain suiih an action to enjoin the disposition of the
reserved property in accordance with an act of Congress.
Ill view of'the .ircumstances of this case it is proper to dismiss the
bill without costs under the provisions of the act of March 3, 1875,
c. 137, ยง 5.
IDocket title originally: Lyda B. C onley, Appellant, v. James R.
('Lrfiel(,
Secretary of Interior, Appellee. ,January
14, 1910, on
suggestion -of resignation of appellee and appointment of Richard A.
Ballinger, substitution of latter ordered as party appellee.

