FRAENKL v. CERECEDO.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tained by the reasoning which the court gave for its conclusion
or that the reasoning was inherently unsound because it proceeded upon a misconception of the state constitution. In
other words, the only possible foundation for the asserted
Federal question is the conception that this court -would
usurp the functions of a state court of last resort in order to
distort, if not to destroy, for infirmity of state power, a state
law expressly upheld as valid by the state court of last resort.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

FRAENKL v. CERECEDO ItERMANOS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED sTATES FOR
PORTO RICO.

No. 411.

Submitted January 10, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

* Where a bill of review is presented for filing within the period allowed,
and the court delays passing upon the application until after that
'period has elapsed, the time between tendering the bill for filing and
permission given to file is not counted in applying the limitation.
Ensminger v. Powers, 108 U. S. 292.
Jurisdiction is dctermined as of the time of commencement of the suit,
and even though the jurisdiction of the court bc enlarged by a subsequent statute so as to include the parties, the.court cannot acquire
jurisdiction against objection.
After a ca.e has bcti dc(iidcd below without reference to any Pederal
question parties may not for purpose of review by this court inject a
Federal question by the suggestion that a I ederal right was relied on.
I Porto Rico Fed. 53, affirmed.

THIS is an appeal from a decree of the Distri't.Court of the

United States for Porto Rico, upon a bill of review, vacating
and annulling a decree entered I)y that court in an equity
cause, and dismissing the bill of complaint in said cause without prejudice.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

The bill in the equity cause referred to was filed in December, 1900. The present appellants were complainants. Some
of them were alleged in the bill to be copartners doing business
in Dundee, Scotland, as Jaffe Brothers & Company, and to.
be subjects of the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland. The
others were averred to be copartners doing business in Berlin,
Germany, as Hihne & Company, and to be subjects of the Emperor of Germany. The defendants to the bill were Demetria
Bolta and Alfredo Arnaldo y Sevilla, and various other individuals alleged to be the general and special, partners of a
firm styled J. Fernandez &,.Co. Among such were Manuel,
YEnrique, Jos6 and Francisco Cerecedo, all of whom were
members of a firm styled Cerecedo Hermanos, which firm, it
was charged, was a special partner in J. Fernandez-& Co.
All the defendants were averred to be citizens and residents
of Porto Rico..
The allegations of. the bill were thus summarized in an opinion rendered in the court-below:
"It avers, in substance, that Fernandez & Co., of which
firi Cerecedo Brothers were special partners up to the time.
when Fernandez: & Company suspended payment, were indebted to the complainants in certain sums set forth in the
bill; that fraudulently and to obtain time the last-named firm
agreed with Jaffe Brothers & Company to transfer to them
certain securities upon third parties for their debt, but thereafter proposed to turn, them over in actual payment pro tanto,
but when the .agent of Jaffe Brothers & Company obtained
authority to agree to this, said firm applied for suspension of
payments; that to get this they issued false evidences of indebtedness 'to Cerecedo Brothers and others; that after the
suspension of payments Fernandez, as liquidator, fraudu-,
lently transferred the securities complainants Jaffe Brothers
& Co. were to have to a third party without consideration,
and for half of their value, Cerecedo Brothers being in fact
the real purchasers; that Fernandez; after the suspension of
payments, turned over to Cerecedo Brothers a large amount

FRAENKL v. CERECEDO.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of property, the amount being unknown to complainants,
and disposed of a large part of the assets fraudulently.. Interrogatories were propounded in the bill to Fernandez. The
relief sought was a specific performance of the agreement
with Fernandez as to the securities; that a receiver be apppinted and the assets of Fernandez & Company be marshaled;
that Fernandez & Company be enjoined from collecting said
securities or interfering with the company's assets; that they
be delivered to the receiver, the liens be ascertained, the
property sold and distributed, among the creditors, Jaffe
Brothers & Company being allowed to participate in the distribution, said -secirities being first applied on their debt."
After the return of service of summons upon the firm,
Herbert E. Smith, signing himself "Solicitor for defendants,"
filed a "special appearance" in the case "for the purpose of
moving the court for the compliance on the part of the plaintiffs with the rule of court relative to non-residents giving -security for costs, and for the purpose of opposing the motion,
for an injunction and receiver." On January 14, 1901, a receiver was appointed, who however never qualified. It was
recited in the order appointing the receiver that after due
notice had been given of- an application foi temporary injunction, the cause-had been fully argued by counsel for the
respective parties. Subsequently, on January 31, 1901, by
written stipulation between counsel for the plaintiffs and
defendants, it was agreed "that the defendants herein may,
and shall have until the 20th day of February, 1901, for the
purpose of demurring to, pleading to or answering the bill
of complaint of said complainants herein.'' Thereafter, on
February 23, 1901, a decree pro confesso was entered against
all the defendants, and ('oinplainaflts were given leave to proceed er porte. On June , following a final decree was entered,
adjudginig the general and special partners in the firm of
J. Fernandez & Co. to be'indebted .to the complainants in
specified amounts, cancelling and annulling, as against the
rights of comlilanallt,, because faiidiijent and fictitious, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

alleged indebtedness of the firm of J. Fernandez & Co. to the
special partners, cancelling and setting aside as fraudulent
the transfers made to the defendant Bolta, and adjudging
that the defendants composing the firm of J. Fernandez &
Co. pay the amounts found due to the complainant, and that
in. default of so doing execution should issue. On January 31,
1902, an execution was issued, which was levied upon the
property. of the firm of Cerecedo Hermanos. Thereupon, on
February 6, 1902, there was filed in the court from which the'
execution issued, on behalf of the members of that firm, a
petition praying for leave to file a bill to review and set aside
the decree theretofore entered pro . confesso against them.
The petition recited the presentation of the bill of review, and
that document' was marked as "Tendered' February 6, 1902."
Both in the petition and bill of review various errors asserted to be apparent on the face of the record were set out,
which, from the view we take of the case, need not be here
detailed.
While, as stated, the petition for leive was filed on February 6, 1902, leave to file was hot granted until June 22,
1903, on which date the court filed an opinion. I Porto Rico
Fed. 53. The opening paragraph of the opinion is as follows:
"This is a petition for leave to file a bill of review, which is
also tendered. The decree asked to be set aside was entered
June 8, 1901. This petition was presented February 6, 190 .
Objection is made that it comes too late. It is claimed that
the act of Congress of March 3, 1891, relative to the-United
States Court of Appeals, applies to it. The limitation for appeal, and which, by analogy, has been applied in equity to
the time for filing bills of review, applicable, however, is the
two years provided in section 1008 of the United States Revised Statutes. Clark v. Killian, 103 U. S. 766; Allen v.
S. P. R. Co., 173 U. S.479."
The court considered two of the grounds assigned in support of the petition for leave to file. One related to the jurisdiction of the court to render the decree and was disposed"

IRAENKL v. CERECEDO.
216 U. S.

299

Statement of the Case.

of by the statement that all the complainants were, aliens.
Upon the ground, however, that the averments of the bill in
the main cause did not authorize the money decree which
had been rendered, it was held that in order to prevent injustice the "petitioners should.be allowed to file their bill of
review, appear, open the decree, and make defense," upon
payment of costs to date and the execution of a bond in the
sum of fifteen thousand dollars, conditioned to perform any

judgment that might finally be rendered against them. On
June 19, 1903, inorder was entered permitting the filing of

the bill of review, opening the decree in the original cause
antd permitting the Cerecedos to appear therein and make
defense, and ordering the return of the execution upon the
giving of bbnd. The condition as t6 payment of costs and.\
giving bond having been complied with, thereafter, on October 13, 1903, a demurrer was filed to the bill of review, and

at the same time in the main cause a plea to the jurisdiction
of the court was filed.
On October 14, 1903, an amended bill of review was filed.
Nearly four years afterwards, on June'l, 1907, an opinion was

filed, holding that thedemurrer to the bill of review and also
the plea to the jurisdiction in the main case should be overruled. On the twenty-second of the same month an answer

was filed to the bill of review, to which a reply was filed in the
following month. On the same day tihe Cerecedos also demurred to the bill of complaint in the main cause. On April 3,
1908, the court vacated, as improvidently made, the order
opening the final decree in the main cause and suspendedl
furthitr in)(ceding therein until the determination of the

questions raised by the bill of review. On October 30 ,;ollowing, however, the court consented to a reargument of the plta
to the jurisdiction in the main cause which had been theretofore adversely ruled- upon, with the result that on February 1.
1909,.the plea to the jurisdiction was sustained. A final deree was thereupon entered upon the issues made upon the
..
bill of review, and after reciting t hal, it appeared upn the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909:
Argumefit for Appellant.

216 U. S.

face of the. record in the original cause that the court was
without jurisdiction to entertain the same, it was decreed as
follows:
"It-is, therefore, hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed
that this bill to review the proceedings of this court in said
original cause be, and the same hereby is,. sustained for, the,
reason aforesaid; that the decree entered by this court on the
8th day of June, A. D. 1901, in the city of Mayaguez, in favor
of complainants in said original suit, the same being as aforesaid No. 6 on- the equity docket at Mayaguez, entitled Jaffe
Brothers & Company and Hinne & Company v. J. Fernandez
& Company and Cerecedo Brothers, be, and the same hereby is,
vacated and annulled; and that said original bill of complaint
be, and the same hereby is, dismissed without prejudice, with
costs of this bill of review in favor of the complainants herein."
The, cause was then appealed to this court.
Mr.. N. B. K. Pettingiil and Mr. George H.. Lamar for appellant:
A bill of review must be filed within the statutory period
for taking an appeal or writ of error. Thomas v. Harvie's
Heirs, 10 Wheat. 146; Central Trust Co. v. Grant Locomotive
Wks., 135 U. S. 207. From the Porto Rico court.this would
be two years. Allen v. So. Pac. Ry, Co., 173 U. S. 479; Royal
Ins. Co..v. Martin, 192 U. -S. 149; Rev. Stat., §§ 702, 1008.
The objection to the jurisdiction of the District Court of
the United States for Porto Rico. was not seasonably raised
and under the circumsthnces of this case the court properly
took'and retained jurisdiction. Kennedy -v. Bank, 8 How;
586; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193; Dowell v. Applegate, •152
U. S. 327, 340.
The lower court had jurisdiction aftei te act of March 2,
1901, 31 Stats. 953, whien the final dcree was entered and the
passage of that act Cured any defect of jurisdictioti. Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289;.Richard.ov v. (reeh, (i1
Fed. Rep. 423, 431 Firsl National Bank v. Jfudford Co., SO

FRAENKL v. CERECEDO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. Rep. 569; Hoffman v. Knox, 50 Fed. Rep..484; Masterson v. Howard, 18 Wall. 99; Pennsylvqnia v. Bridge Co., 18
How. 421.
The original bill also raised a Federal question as the construction of a statute of the United States was involved and
that gave the court jurisdiction. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat.
264, 379; Osborne v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 822; Wyman v.
Wallace, 201 U. S. 230.
Mr. Francis H. Dexter for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE

WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The assignments of error which require consideration assail
the power of the court below to permit the filing of the bill
of review, and also question the validity of its .action in vacating the decree entered in the main cause and dismissing
the, bill filed therein.
Respecting the first, the proposition is that the limit of
time within which-a bill of review might be filed had expired when leave was given, and that the court should have
required payment of the money judgment dccreed in the
main cause before granting permission to file the bill of review. These contentions are untenable. True it is that in
analogy to the time allowed by law for an appeal to this court,
from a final decree of the District Court of Porto Rico, the
bill of review; should have been filed in two years from June 8,
1901, the date when the final decree sought to be reviewed
vAs entered, and the bill of review was not actually filed until
June 22, 1903. But the bill was presented for filing on February 2, 1902, and it is plain that tile failure of the complain-.
ants in the bill of review to actually file the same until June 22,
.1903, was occasioned 1)v the action of the court in not sooner

passing upon the application for leave, to file. Under such
circumstances, we think the time which elapsed between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

tendering of the bill for filing and the permission given to
file should not be counted-in applying the two years' limitation. Ensminger v. Powers, 108 U. S. 292. As respects the
granting of permission to file the bill of review, the court was
vested with a judicial discretion to permit such filing without
a previous payment of the moneys awarded by the decree
sought to be reviewed, and there was no abuse of such discretion in giving leave to file,, conditioned upon the furnishing
of the indemnity bond which was thereafter executed.
As to the alleged error in vacating the decree entered in and.
dismissing the original cause.-In the' court below the allegation attacking the jurisdiction of the court over the original
cause was as4ollows:
"That this court did not have jurisdiction of the original
cause and bill of complaint, for the reason that, according to
the allegations" of said.bill, all the parties plaintiff were foreign
subjects, and all the parties defendant were citizens of Porto
Rico, there being no citizen of the United States or of a State
of the United States a part, defendant, and no.other or sufficient ground or reason for the jurisdiction of this court is in
the said original bill set forth sufficient to give this court
jurisdiction of the said cause."
The bill in the main cause was filed in December, 1900. At
that time the jurisdiction of the court below was fixed and
limited by § 34 of the act of Congress of April 12, 1900, commonly known as the Foraker Act, which established civil
government in Porto Rico. It was provided in the section
that the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico
"shall have, in addition to the ordinary jurisdiction of District Courts of the United States, jurisdiction of all cases
cognizant in the Circuit Courts of the United States, and shall
proceed therein in the same manner as a Circuit. Court."
That, in view of the parties to the controversy, the case would
not have been cognizable in a Circuit Court of the United
States is obvious, and hence, manifestly, the court below was
without jurisdiction under the act of 1Q00. It is urged, how-

FRAENKL v. CERECEDO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ever, that as the final decree in the main cause was entered
in June, 1901, although the court was clearly without jurisdiction to entertain the cause when the bill was filed, as no
question as to jurisdiction had been raised, the court had
power to enter the decree by virtue of the third section of the
act of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 953, chap. 812, reading as follows:
"That the jurisdiction of the District Court of the United
States for Porto Rico in civil cases shall, in addition to that
conferred by the act of April twelfth, nineteen hundred, extend to and embrace controversies where the parties, or either
-of them, are citizens of the United States, or citizens or subjects of a foreign State or States, wherein the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest or costs, the sum or value
of one thousand dollars."
Pacific R. Co. v. Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289, 298, is cited as authority for the proposition. In that case, however, not only
was no objection made by the parties in the progress of the
cause to the right of the court.to proceed, but the decree when
rendered was consented to, and the ruling was that although
"Consent cannot give the courts of the United States jurisdiction, it may bind the parties arid waive previous errors, if
when the court acts jurisdiction has been obtained." A brief
consideration, however, of the circumstances in this case demonstrates that the Ketchum case is not in point. The last appearance of the defendants in the litigation inthe main cause
was on January 31, 1901, when a stipulation was made in respect to the time for pleading to the bill, and, of course, an
exertion of jurisdiction by the court was neither invoked by
the defendants nor consented to by them after the enactment
of the amendatory statute of 1901. Under such circumstances
it cannot be held that the defendants were estopped from
availing of the objection of want of jurisdiction.
The additional contention is made that the case Qreseiited
by the bill in the nmia cause was one arising tinder the laws
of the United States, and that because thereof/ jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

existed, irrespective of the want of citizenship of the parties.
The argument is that the complainants, in their bill, made
reference to the provisions of an order of the military governor
,of Porto. Rico concerning "suspension of payments," which,
if given -proper effect, would have prevented 'the accomplishment of the fraud which it was the 'object of the bill to prevent. This order thuts referred to, it is said, was, in legal
effect, a law of the Urited States, and the reference to and reliance upon its provisions was an invoking of the jurisdiction
of the court on theFederal ground that the case was one arising under the laws oftheUnited States. In our opinion, however, there, is not even color for the proposition that the bill
presented a. controversy arising under a law of the United
States, even if the military order referred to be treated as a
law of the Uuited States. To sustain such a contention it
must appear that a controversy Of that nature was called to
the attention of the lower court in such a way as to invoke
its action thereon. In othei words, after a case has been decided below parties may not, for the purpose of a review by
this court, attempt to inject a Federal question into the cause
by suggesting that it would have been possible by a latitudinarian construction of the pleadings to'suggest that a right
under the Constitution or a law of th6 United States was relied upon. And of course in saying this we must not be understood as intimating that the assumed Federal question,. even
if it had been called to the attention of the court below, would
have had sufficient substantiality to have been the basis for
jurisdiction.
Affirmed.

