WEST. UN. TEL. CO. v. ANDREWS.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
.ANDREWS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 8.

Argued April 13, 14, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Individuals, who, as officers of the State, are clothed with some duty
in regard to the enforcement of the laws of the State, and who

threaten and are about to commence proceedings, either of a civil or
a criminal nature, to enforce against parties affected an unconstitutional act, violating the Federal Constitution, may be enjoined by
a Federal court of equity from such action; and such an action is
not prohibited by the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States. Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Rush Taggart and Mr. Henry D. Estabrook, with whom
Mr. Geo. B. Rose was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Hal L. Norwood, Attorney General of the State of Arkansas, with whom Mr. Joseph M. Hill, Mr. William F. Kirby
and Mr. Otis T. Wingo were on the brief, for the appellees.
'MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case grows out of alleged actions about to be taken to
enforce against the Western Union Telegraph Company the
penalties denounced in the act of May 13,_ 1907, of the legislature of Arkansas entitled "An Act to permit foreign corporations to do business in Arkansas, and fixing fees to be paid
by all corporations.'
As this act has just been the subject of consideration in
Ludwig, Secretary of State, v. The Western Union Telegraph.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

Company, decided to-day, ante, p. 146, it is unnecessary to
set out at large-the provisions of the statute in question.

The bill in this case was brought against the prosecuting
attorneys of the seventeen judicial circuits of the State of
Arkansas to enjoin them from instituting actionsagainst the
Western Union Telegraph Company to recover the penalties
of $1,000 for each alleged violation of the act. It was averred
in the bill that the defendant prosecuting attorneys would,
unless restrained by the order of the court, institute numerous
actions, as they had threatened to do, for the recovery of the
penalties aforesaid,. The learned District Judge sustained
the demurrer to the bill and dismissed the case upon the
ground that the action is, in effect, a suit against the State
of Arkansas, and for that reason prohibited by the Eleventh
Amendment to the Federal Constitution. The sole question
presented upon this record ,is as to the correctness of that
ruling.
Since the decision in the Circuit Court this court has de.cided the case of Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 155. In that
case the previous cases in this court concerning the application of the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution were
fully considered, and it was then said by Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for the court:
"The various authorities we have referred to furnish ample
justification for tie assertion that individuals, who, as officers of the State, are clothed with some duty in regard to the
enforcement of the laws of the State, and who threaten and
are about to commence proceedings, either of a civil or a
criminal nature, to enforce against parties affeoted an unconstitutional act, violating the Federal Constitution, may be
enjoined by a Federal court of equity from such action."
This doctrine is precisely applicable to the case at bar. The
statute specifically charges the prosecuting attorneys with the
duty of bringing actions to recover the penalties. It is averred
in the bill, and admitted by the demurrer, that they threatened
and were about to commence proceedings for that purpose.

SANCHEZ v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The unconstitutionality of the act is averred, and relief is
sought against its enforcement. As this case is ruled, upon
the question of jurisdiction, by the case of Ex parte Young,
it is unnecessary to consider the question further. Upon the
authority of that case the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction is reversed. and the
cause remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.

ALVAREZ Y SANCHEZ v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 69.

Submitted January 11, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

The rights of private individuals recognized and protected by the
Treaty of 1898 with Spain did not include the salability of official
positions, such as procurador; nor did the United States intend to
so restrict its own sovereign authority that it could not abolish the
system of perpetual and salable offices which is entirely foreign to
the conceptions of this people.
Even if Congress did not intend to modify the treaty of 1898 by the
Foraker Act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, if that act is inconsistent
with the treaty it must prevail, and be enforced despite any provision in the treaty. Hijo v. United States, 194 U. S.315.
Congress recognized the action of the military authoriti'e' in Porto
Rico in 1898 in abolishing the office of procurador and validated it
by the provision in the Foraker Act of 1900 continuing the laws
and ordinances then in force except as altered-and modified by the
military orders in force.
The abolition of a perpetual and salable office, established under the
Spanish law in Porto Rico prior to its cession to the United States,
does not violate any provision of the Constitution or infringe any
right of property which the holder of the offie can "ssert against
the United States. O'Reilly v. ,Brooke, 209 U. S. 45.
42 C. Cl. 458, affirmed.
\

Mr. S. Mallet-Prevost for appellant:

Claimant's petition alleged a good cause of action.

His

