HANNIS DISTILLING CO. v. BALTIMORE.
216 U. S.

285

Opinion of the Court.

HANNIS DISTILLING
i. MAYOR AND CITY
(COUNCILCOMPANY
OF BALTIMORIE.
ERRORTO TIIE CIR('UIT ('OURT OF TIIIE UNITED STATES lOll

TiE

DISTIncT 01' MARYLAND.

No. 75.

Argued JanuarX 12,1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Where the unsoundness of a lederal question so clearly appears from
previous decisions of this court as to foreclose the subjcct and leave

no room for controversy, the writ of error will l)e dismissed.
This co urt having decide( in Carstairs v. Cochran, 193 U. S. 10, that
the State of Maryland can, as an exertion of its taxing power, without denial of due process of law, tax tangible )roperty having a
situs within its borders, irrespective of the residence of.the owner,
and can if necessary impose the obligation to pay such tax upon the
custodian or possessor of such property, giving a lien thereon to
secure

reimbursement, the only Federal

question involved, and

'which would give this court juris(li('ti6n in this case is so foreclosed
that the writ of error is dismissed for want of jurisd'iction.
This court will not usurp the functions of a state court of last resort
in order to distort if not'destroy for infirmity of state power a state
statute expressly upheld as valid by the state court.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a taxing
law of the State of Maryland and the jurisdiction of this court

to consider the same on writ of error, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Shirley Carter for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Sylvan Haye.s Lauchheimer andi Mr. E yar Allan Poe,
with whoni Mr. Oscar Leser was ou the brief, for d(efe(Idant ill

error.
MR.

JUS'rICE'WHIrE

delivered the opinion of the court;

The city of Baltimore sued to recover from the Hannis
Distilling Company, a West Virginia corporation, $18,218.68,
of which $9,259.29 was the amount of, state and city taxes
for 1902 on an assessment of 50,996 barrels of distilled spirits,
and $8,959.49 was the sum of state and city taxes for 1903

OCTOBER TE.RM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

on an assessment of 54,514 barrels of distilled spirits. It was
alleged that the spirits assessed were 'in the ownership and
possession or custody of said defendant in the city. of Baltimore, State of Maryland

.

.

at the time each -assess-

ment was made." The declaration as amended alleged thht
the taxes sued for'had been levied by virtue 6f "chapter 704'
of the acts of general assembly of Maryland passed at the
January session of 1892, as amended by chapter 320 of the
acts of the general assembly of Maryland, passed at the
January session of 1900." The provisions thus referred to are
embraced in §§ 214-224, inclusive, of Article 81 of the Code
of Public General Laws of Maryland of 1904. Their purpose
is indicated by §§ 214 and 215, which are as follows:
"SEc. 214. There shall be levied -and collected upon all
distilled spirits in this State, as personal property, the same
rate of taxation which is imposed by the laws of the State
on other property for State and county purposes.
"SEC. 215. For the pirpose of such assessment and collection it is hereby made the duty of each distiller, and every
owner or proprietor of a-bonded or other warehouse in which
distilled spirits are stored and of every person or corporation
having custody of such spirits to make report to the state
tax commissioner, on the first day of January in each and
every year, of all the distilled spirits on hand at such date,
and the tax for the ensuing year from the said first of January
shall be levied and paid on the amount of distilled spirits so
in hand, as representing the taxable distilled spirits for such
year; provided, however, that the same distilled- spirits shall
not be taxed twice for. the same year."
By the remaining provisions of the act the machinery for
levying and collecting the taxes for which the act provided
was created. Such regulations afforded those interested an
opportunity to be heard as to the amount of any assessment,
,made it the duty of the person having the possession, control
or custody of the spirits assessed to pay the taxes levied
thereon, and gave to the persons thus made liable to make

HANNIS DISTILLING CO. v. BALTIMORE.
216"U. S,

Opinion of the Court.

payment a lien upon the spirits to secure the reimbursement
of the taxes paid.
. Because of diversity of citizenship the defendant r'moved
the case to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland. In that court two pleas to the declaration were 'filed. By the first, it was alleged that the corpora-.
"tion was not only incorporated' under the laws of West
Virginia, but had always been exclusively a citizen and resi-.
dent of that State, and of no other. The corporation, itwas
averred, was not, at the time when the taxes sued for were
levied, the owner of the distilled spirits upon which the levy
was made, or any portion thereof,. and, indeed, had never
at any. time since the assessment and levy hadl any interest,
direct or indirect, in the distilled spirits in question. Under
these circumstances it was charged "that under the provisions
of article f5 of the bill of rights of the constitution of Maryland, as the same has been construed by the .Court of Appeals of Maryland

.

.

.

the respective

taxes levied

on the assessed' value of all of the said -barrels of distilled
spirits

.

.

.

were levied on the owners of said barrels

of distilled spirits, who were and are persons other than this
defendant, and the said taxes were not and could not have
been levied on this defendant." The plea then proceeded to
aver that at all times prior to the day when the assessment
had been made and since, the spirits assessed had been stored
in the defendant's bonded warehouse subject to the acts of
Congress applicable to bonded warehouses, and that the
defendant had'at no time "any further custody or control
of the spirits than is by the acts of Congress'applicable to the
subject." The plea further charged that the corporation had
no funds in its possession or under its control, belonging to
the owners of the spirits with which to pay the taxes; that
the corporation had not agreed to pay them, that it had
never borne any other relation to the owners than that of
creditor, and therefore there was no right to recover the
taxes from the corporation or to compel it to pay them. It

288

OCTOBER, TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

was specially averred that to compel the corporation to pay
the taxes would be to deprive it of its property without due
process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States. The second plea
substantially reiterated the averments of the first, and, in
addition, specially 'alleged that all the persons who owned
the distilled spirits resided outside of the State of Maryland
and could not be taxed in personam, and that, by the construction given to the constitution of the State by the highest
court of the State, .the property, although situated in the
State, was not susceptible of being taxed, and, therefore, the
taxes were void, and there was no power to cast upon the
corporation the duty of paying them, and to compel the cor-.
poration to pay the taxes would be a violation of the due
.process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
A demurrer filed by the city to both pleas, on the ground
that they stated no defense, was sustained without an opinion.
The distilling company, electing to stand upon its pleas,
judgment was entered against it for the-amount of the taxes.
Thereupon a writ of error dir'ectly from this court was prosecuted upon the assumption that questions under the Constitution of the United States were involved which gave a
right to an immediate resort to this court for their Solution.
*Upon the correctness of such assumption our jurisdiction
depends. The assumption, however, may not be indulged in
simply because ii appears from the record that a Federal
question was averred, if such question be obviously frivolous
6r plainly unsubstantial, either because it is manifestly devoid
of merit or because.its unsoundness so clearly results from the
previous decisions of this court as to foreclose the subject and
.leave no room for the inference that the questions sought to
be: raised can be the subject of controversy. Leonard v.
Vicksburg, S. & P. R. Co., 198 U. S. 416, 421, and cases cited;
Delmar Jockey Club v. Missouri, 210 U. S. 324, 335; McGilvra
V. Ross, 2151. S. 70.
The assignments merely charge that error was committed

HANNIS DISTILLING CO. v. BALTIMORE.
216 U. S.

289

Opinion of the Court.

in sustaining the demurrer to the 'pleas, 'and consequently
in refusing to give effect to the alleged rights under the Constitution which the pleas asserted. But the, pleas based the
claim of Federal right not merely upon the inherent operation
of the law under which the taxes were levied, abstractly considered, but upon limitations which it was assumed were to
be treated as embodied in the law in consequence of restrictions on the general power -of the State to tax, based upon
the c6nstruction which it was asserted had been given to a
provision in the bill of rights in the state constitution by the
court of last resort of the State. And the argument elaborately
pressed at bar concerning the -assumed Federal question
accords with this conception of the pleas, since it does not
deny that the act under which the taxes were levied would
not be wanting, in due process if it had been enacted by a
state government possessing normal powers of local taxation,
but contends that the act under consideration must be held
to be wanting in due process, because its provisions should be
construed with reference to the assumed abnormal limitations
upon the taxing power of the State of Maryland, above referred to. By the limitation which the argument thus assumes to exist, it is urged the government of the State of
Maryland, in the exertion of its taxing power, is confined
exclusively to the levy of taxes in personam upon the owners
of property. Being thus limited by the state constitution,
the argument proceeds to insist that there was no taxing
power in the State of Maryland adequate to embrace an
assessment of taxes upon a mere custodian of distilled spirits,
and consequently that the compelling of a custodian to pay
such an imposition, not being within the taxing ,power, was
virtually an exercise of the power of eminent domain, and
hence there was such a proposed taking of the money or property of the custodian, Without full and adequate compensation, as would constitute a denial of du6 process of law. In
addition, it is elaborately insisted that as by the Constitution
of the United States a State may not extend its taxing auVOL. CCXVI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

thority over non-residents it must follow, from the limitations
on the taxing power of the State of Maryland above asserted,
that that State not having the power to tax a non-resident
owner of distilled spirits, could not, without a violation of the

Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, by indirection accomplish the same result by imposiing

the obligation to pay upon the custodian. But back of ie
abstract theoies as to the scope of the state taxing power"
upon which these propositions necessa'il y depend lies the
inquiry whether, for the purposes of this case, in view of the
previous decisions of the court of last resort of the State of
Maryland and of this court dealing with such decisions, it is
open to press such theories and to attempt to'make them the
basis of the assumed existence of rights ufider the Constitution of the United States.
In Carstairs v. Cochran, 95 Maryland, 488, 498, suit was
brought by Cochran, as treasurer and tax collector, to recover
from Caratairs and another the amount of taxes assessed and
levied in respect of distilled spirits in a warehouse of the
defendants, the assessment and levy having been. made under
the identical law by V'irtup of which the assessment and levy
here in controversy was made. The Court of Appeals of
Maryland upheld the statute and consequently sustained the
validity of the tax. In opening its opinion the court said:
"This appeal constitutes the third attick upon the validity
of the'act.of 1892, c.704, as now amended by the act of 1900,
.c. 320, being §§ 204 and 213, inclusive, of Article 81 of the
Supplement to the Public General Code of Maryland, providing -for the collection of taxes upon distilled'spirits in this
State.
"The appellants admit that all the features of the law
which are here assailed upon constitutional grounds were
considered by the court in MonticelloI
Dstilling Co.. v. City of.
Baltimore, 90 Maryland, 416; and that.while the act was there
held invalid, as it then stood, because of the failure to provide
for a hearing in respect to the valuation to be placed on the

lIANNiS DISTILLING CO. v. BALTIMORE.
216 U. S.

291

Opinion of the Court.

spirits for the purposes of-taxation, it was declared to be 'in
other respects free from constitutional objections.'
After then stating that it was contended that, as the
Monticello case had been decided on the ground that the
statute did not provide adequate notice, the declarations of
the court in that case upholding the constitutionality of the
law in other respects were obiter, the court proceeded to
consider that contention and hold that it was not well founded,
because the. reasoning in the Monticello case concerning the
constitutionality of the statute was directly responsive to the
contentions made, and therefore involved in the case as
presented. Although reaching this conclusion, in view df
the court's estimate of the importance of the suibject, it nevertheless prbceeded to reconsider all the contentions concerning
the constitutionality of the statute. As a prelude to the reinvestigation the court said (95 Maryland, 500):
"The provisions of the act, of 1892,, c. 704, were sufficiently
detailed in the opinion rendered in Monticello Distilling Co.
v. City of Baltimore, supra, and that statembntwill be adopted
for this case without repeat ing it here. That act is assailed
here as it was there, as fundamentally vicious, and. upon
precisely the same grounds, with the exception of the want
of notice of assessment, which has been ,cured by act 1900,
c. 320. These grounds are twofold: First, that it lays. a tax
upon property, and not upon the owner of the property; and,
second, that it.
compels one not the owner of. the spirits to
pay the tax due by the owner, who is usually unknown to the,
party compelled to pay."
And after an.elaborate consideration of all the contentions
the conclusions reached in the Monticello case were adhered
to and the constitutionality of the statute imposing the tax
was reaffirmed.' The case was brought to this court (Carstairs
v. Cochran, 1.93 U. S. 10) and the repugnancy of the statute
to the Constitution of the United States was elaborately
pressed. Preliminarily to a consideration of the Federal
questions which were presented for decision the court at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

outset declared (p. 16) "that the statutes in question do-not
conflict with the constitution df Maryland is settled by the
decisions of its highest court." In considering the Federal,
question it was held that the State of Maryland could, as
an exertion of its taxing power, without denial of due process
of law, tax tangible property having a situs within its borders,
irrespective of the residence of the owner,, and could impose,
if necessary, the obligatiop to pay such tax upon the custodian,
or possessor of such property, giving a lien thereon to secure
the' reimbursement of the tax so paid. It was moreover
expressly held that neither the regulations contained in the.'
laws of the. United States :concerning bonded warehouses for
'-the storage of distilled spirits nor the fact that the custodian
in whose warehouse such spirits were stored had issued
negotiable -receipts for the same, operated to prevent the
assessment of the spirits for state taxation and the imposing
of the duty to make payment of the taxupon the warehouseman.. Since 'the, decision in the Carstairs case the right of a
';State consistently with the Constitution of the United States
to tax- tangible property having a situs within its borders,
irrespective of the residence of the owner, and to impose the
duty on a warehouseman to pay a tax upon distilled spirits in
his custody, even although the warehouse in which they were
stored was bonded under the laws of the United States, has
been again upheld in Thompson v. Kentucky,, 209 U, S. 340.
'It follows that at the .time the writ of errdr'directly from
•this court was sued out, upon the assumed. theory that the
Maryland act imposing the taxes sued. for was repugnant'
to 'the due process clause of the Constitution of; the United
States, such contentionkhad been expressly decided to be
without foundation -by this court, and therefore the propositions of Federal right upon which alone the jurisdiction of
this court depended was foreclosed and. not -open to controversy, and afforded no substantial basis for the'writ of
error, unless for some of the reasons alleged by counsel the
.case is taken out of this general principle.

HANNIS I)ISTILLING CO. v. BALTIMORE.
216 U. S.

293

Opinion of the Court.

To accomplish such result the argument is that.in Carstairs
v. Cochran this court erroneously, although unwittingly, assumed that the law of the State of Maryland levying the tax
which was in question in that case, and which is the sane
law and character of tax involved in this case, had been
•upheld by the Maryland court of last resort as a valid exercise
of the state taxing power.- This alleged oversight, it is sug"
gested, arose from the fact that the court overlooked the
singular limitations" on the taxing power of the State of
Maryland, which, as we have previously seen, it is asserted, results from a p rovision in the bill of rights of the constitution of
that' State, by which it is ihsisted.the State is bereftof general
powers of taxation, and is limited strictly to taxing the owners
of property in personam. Before further noticing this theory
we briefly advert to an attempt .to support the suggestion of
oversight alleged to have occurred in th de6ision in the
Carstairs case by reference to the subsequent case of Corry
v. Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466. The Corry case did not concern
the Maryland. law here in" question, but involved the constitutionality of a tax imposed by. the State of Maryland upon
the shares of stock in a domestic corporation held by a nonresident of the State, which were assessed at the domicil of
the corporation, accompani ed-with the obligation upon the"
dorporation to pay the tax.. The principal, contention was
that the. tax was repugnant to the 'due process .clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, because, as the complainant stockholder was a non-resident of Maryland, the tax was an attempt
to extenld the'taxing power of the State over a person 'hot
subject to its jurisdiction. The -court, while recognizing that
the Maryland Court had decided that the tax in question was
not upon thestock in rem or upon the corporation, but was
upon the owner, nevertheless decid*ed that the tax was not
wanting in due-process, because the situs of the stock for the
purpose of taxation was in effect fixed by th6 act of incorporation by which the stockholder was bound, and that the right
thus to tax at the domicil of the corporation carried with it

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

as an incident the regulating power to compel the corporation
to pay. Because it was recognized that the court below had
decided that the tax there in question was in personam, and,
accepting the complexion given to the tax by the court of
last resort of Maryland,. it was held not to be repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, lends even no semblance
of support to the proposition that thereby it was in the
remotest degree intimated that the Carstairs case was mistakenly decided or that in disregard of the ruling made by
the Maryland court in the Carstairs case it was intended to
intimate .that the burden which the court in that case had
sustained as an exercise of the taxing power of the State of
Maryland was not the exertion of such authority. And this
serves to demonstrate the unsubstantial character of the contention concerning the limitation of the state taxing power
as applied to the case before, us, by which alone the semblance
of support for the existence of a Federal question necessary
to con er jurisdiction upon this court can be evolved. Beyond
dispute, in the Carstairscase the court of last resort of Maryland upheld the act here in controversy, as an exertion of the
taxing power of the State, and in so doing declared that it
but reiterated and recxpounded rulings by it previously made.
It follows that, as for the purposes of a review by this court of
alleged questions concerning the repugnancy of. the taxing
act to the Constitution of the United States, the decision of
the state court maintaining under the state constitution the
validity. of the taxing power which teact exerted was binding upon this court, it must result that contentions to the
contrary are so devold of merit as to present no substantial
Federal ques tion. Castillo v. McConvico, d68 U. S. 674.
Indeed, considered in its ultimate aspect, the entire argument
by which it is sought to evolve a supposed Federal question
'and thus to escape the controlling effect of the decision of this
court.in the Carstairscase, rests upon the assumption that the
conclusion of the state court in that case as to the validity
of the taxing act under the state constitution
was not sus-

FRAENKL v. CERECEDO.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tained by the reasoning which the court gave for its conclusion
or that the reasoning was inherently unsound because it proceeded upon a misconception of the state constitution. In
other words, the only possible foundation for the asserted
Federal question is the conception that this court -would
usurp the functions of a state court of last resort in order to
distort, if not to destroy, for infirmity of state power, a state
law expressly upheld as valid by the state court of last resort.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

FRAENKL v. CERECEDO ItERMANOS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED sTATES FOR
PORTO RICO.

No. 411.

Submitted January 10, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

* Where a bill of review is presented for filing within the period allowed,
and the court delays passing upon the application until after that
'period has elapsed, the time between tendering the bill for filing and
permission given to file is not counted in applying the limitation.
Ensminger v. Powers, 108 U. S. 292.
Jurisdiction is dctermined as of the time of commencement of the suit,
and even though the jurisdiction of the court bc enlarged by a subsequent statute so as to include the parties, the.court cannot acquire
jurisdiction against objection.
After a ca.e has bcti dc(iidcd below without reference to any Pederal
question parties may not for purpose of review by this court inject a
Federal question by the suggestion that a I ederal right was relied on.
I Porto Rico Fed. 53, affirmed.

THIS is an appeal from a decree of the Distri't.Court of the

United States for Porto Rico, upon a bill of review, vacating
and annulling a decree entered I)y that court in an equity
cause, and dismissing the bill of complaint in said cause without prejudice.

