OCTOBI R TER0M, 1909.
216 U. S.

Syllabus.

lIndial, if he desired to do so , in order that he minilit sel('ct his
(otherlands. The stitute did ot intcnd that
ill India should be (.o01pelled to take his allotiiieit on tie
land th(1 held I)y 1ii11.
Ile Could sell his ill) provenilts and
holdings to another fnilian for allotment an(d lay his own oi
other land which le imight find vacant, or whi(h he miight,
in turn, purchase from aiot'h(er h1i(iar. This method was
adopted almost iiiivers:hhy by the Indians, and it was not
utilawfiil as bhtwee lnlians. But to hold anl excess of lands
after tlie (X)il'ation of the nine mon ths was unlawful and a
allotiint, ml

(crile."

\Vhile the asserted lederal questions are not so wholly I,voil o siibst"aIlie as to )e pur(ely frivolous, they are neverthe'less without merit, and the judgmiilt ilUist

)e

aldlit is
Affirmed.

MONSEIRATE GARCIA MAYTIN v. VELA.
BEATI IZ IDE LS)8 AN(E1E.
\V II)O\VO
WI
ALOS, v.
MONSEI{H, ATE ANID DO MINGA GARI .\ ,IAYTIN
A11I'iALS FR0M

Nos. 90, 245.

IIl

SqITRENE COURT ()'

I'()IUTO nTCO.

Argued March S, 9, 1910.-Decide, larch 21, 1910.

In 0i0 lScOsc(e of summons and severance all defendants against whom

a eCree i1 :a1 cquity suit is entered must join ill the app

irdee
a.

V. I'i.J'P, 146 U. S. 179.

li : suit coming from a Territory this court is not inclined to overthrow te assumptions of the trial court in regard to matters (ontrolled Iby the local law; and so hel in affirming a judgment ii a
case coming from Porto Rico involving questions of inheritance
aiil prescription.
Quare , as to the effect of Article 811 of the Civil Code of Porto Rico,
requiring :n ascendant inheriting property under certain conditions

GARCIA v. VELA.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to reserve the property in favor of relatives belonging to the line
from which the property originally came, a s to property inherited
before the adoption of the article by one dying after its adoption
still possessed of the property.

THE facts are stated inthe op)inion.

Mr. N. B. K. Pettinqill, with whom Mr. Robert 1H. Todd
was on the brief, for appleIlait in No. 90, and allpehlee in
No. 245.
Mr. Willis Sweet for appellee in No. 90 and appellant in
No. 245, submitted.
MR.

JUSTICE

HoLAI ES

dclivered the opinion of "the court.

These are cross-appeals in a proceeding )rought by Monserrate and Dominga Garcia, two sisters of Manuel Garcia
Maytin, and by another plaintiff now dropped out, to establish their rights in property descended from the said Manuel
Garcia. The claim is founded upon Article 811 of the former
Civil Code, of which the following is the War Department
translation: "The ascendant who inherits property from his
descendant, acquired by the latter for a good consideration
from another descendant [ascendant] or from a brother or
sister, is obliged to reserve the property he may have acquired by force of law in favor of the relatives within the
third degree belonging to the line from which such property
originated."
The following is the course of the property concerned:
1. Complainants' brother, Manuel Garcia Maytin. Died
intestate in 1886, succeeded by
2. His daughter, Mrs. Beatriz Garcia de Ibarra, as sole
heir. Died intestate and without descendants 1891, succeeded by
3. Her mother, Mrs. Beatriz Al6s, widow of Manuel Garcia
Maytin, as sole heir. Died, 1904, leaving a will, devising to

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

4. Her mother, Beatriz de los Angeles, and nephews and
nieces, who with Vela, the executor of the will, and with
purchasers from Mrs. Beatriz Al6s, are the defendants.
It will be seen that (3) Mrs. Beatriz Al6s was an ascendant
who inherited from her descendant (2), Mirs. Beatriz Garcia,
propert.y accljiired by the latter from the ascendant (1), her
father. Therefore the devisees of Mrs. Beatriz Alds would
be postponed by the law just quoted in favor of the relatives
within the third degree, who are the two sisters bringing this
complaint.

The Supreme Court of Porto Rico, in a very lucid and
persuasive opinion, established the position of the plaintiffs
and answered the objections urged by the defense. It was
shown that as Mrs. Beatriz Al6s (3) inherited all-the property
of her daughter (2) as sole heir, notwithstanding the fact that
the husband of the latter had the usufruct of one-third for
life, the obligation extended to all the property so inherited,
being the same property that the daughter had inherited
from her father, she not appearing to have had any other
estate, with insignificant exceptions. 'Itwas shown further
that the obligation of Mrs. Beatriz A16s and Mrs. Beatriz
de los Angeles was not affected by the failure of the plaintiffs
and others to make it appar in the registry that the property
was subject to be reserved. Mortgage Law, Art. 199. That
section was not the source of the plaintiffs' rights, but only
a means of securing them against bona fide purchasers. It
did not extinguish their rights as against the relatives under
Art. 811 of the Civil Code, in case of neglect. Finally, a
satisfactory answer was given to the argument that the plaintiffs were barred by prescription, under an order of the
military government of Porto Rico, published on April 4,
1899, by which the Civil Code, Art. 1957, was amended so
that ownership should prescribe by possession for Zsix years
with good faith and' a proper title. The daughter died in
1891, and her mother recorded her title in the registry and
held from 1891 to her death in 1904. But it was replied that

GARCIA v. VELA.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the first place prescription had not been pleaded, and was
not open, and, secondly, that Article 1957, and therefore the
amendment, referring to prescription to acquire ownership,
coexists with Art. 1963, which fixes a term of thirty years for
the prescription by which ownership of real property is lost
through a failure to bring a real action, and that in this case
the prescription relied upon (and, we may add, probably the
only one that could have been relied upon) was that resulting
from the plaintiffs not having sued.
For these reasons the Supreme Court affirmed a judgment
of the District Court, condemning the defendants to deliver
to the plaintiffs certain specified land, or, where the same had
been sold, the value of the same, to be ascertained by appraisement, with the costs in the District Court. The defendant, Mrs. Beatriz de los Angeles, appealed, her appeal
being number 245 in this court, but as the other defendants
did not join in the appeal, and there was no summons and
severance, not to speak of other possible objections, the ap-.
peal must be dismissed. Iardee v. Wilson, 146 U. S. 179.
We therefore go no farther on this part of the case than to
give the foregoing brief summary of an argument from which
we see no reason to dissent.
The plaintiffs also appeal and this makes it necessary to
mention one or two facts not noticed thus far. On the death
of Manuel Garcia, his widow, in the course of proceedings for
the settlement of his estate, filed what seems to have been
called a petition for partition, admitting however that there
were no properties belonging to th' conjugal partnership.
An auditor was appointed and he prepared /schedules of
assets and liabilities, of the portion of assets distributedjto
the widow for the payment of such liabilities, and of the
remainder awarded to the daughter and sole heir; this last
consisting of two parcels of land and some personalty of small
value. Thereupon the partition was ciosed. The judgment
appealed from gave the plaintiffs only the land inherited by
the mother from the -daughter and included in the last-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 TT. S.

mentioned schedule. The plaintiffs set up that the partition
proceedings were void upon their face for several reasons and
that they therefore are entitled to all the property that
Manuel Garcia left.
The local courts answered this claim by saying that if
there were otherwise any foundation for it, it is barred by
the limitation of four years set to rescissory actions and
actions for nullity by Arts. 1076 and 1301 of the Civil Code.
For in the first place neither the daughter nor her husband,
Mr. Ibarra, ev(ir took any steps to set the partition aside,
and it is plausible to say that the plaintiffs claim by inheritance from her, since if she had left descendants the
property would have gone from her to them. Hence, not•withstanding the daughter's inability to cut the plaintiffs off
in the event that happened, it is questionable at least whether
they are not barred by what barred her. In the next place,
the plaintiffs took no steps after the daughter's death, during
the whole lifetime and occupation of her mother from 1891
to 1904. Even if, as the plaintiffs say, their right would have
been divested by their death during the life of the mother,
Mrs. Beatriz Al6s, (3), it seems to have vested at the death
of the daughter, Mrs. Beatriz Garcia (2). We are not prel)ared to overthrow the assumption made by the court, whose
experhrnce in such questions is entitled to much consideratioji, Armijo v. Armijo, 181 U. S. 558, 561, Albright v. Sandoval,
Feb. 21, 1910, ante, 1. 331, that the plaintiffs had a sufficient
interest to entitle them to bring an action to set aside'the
so-called partition on the daughter's death, and that on their
failing to do so the right to dispute the same was barred by
lapse of time.
If the partition stands the other questions argued, as to
purchasers from the mother, Mrs. Beatriz Albs, etc., need no
further answer. We deem it proper to add one remark.
Article 811 created the right by 'Which the plaintiffs recover.
It did not go into effect until after the death of Manuel Garcia,
so that it would seemi to have been Oieni to argument that

WITHNELLi v. BUSH CONSTRUCTION CO.
216 U. S.

603

Statement of the Case.

his daughter inherited hiis property by an absolute title which
that law should not bc construed to have. disturbed. But
as it did go into effect before the daughter's death, and as. it
has been assumed on all hands that that moment was the
decisive one, we have made the same assumption under the,
circumstances and for the purposes of this case. It seems to
us,- however, that the plaintiffs have reason to be satisfied
with retaining what they got by the judgment below.
No. 90. Judqment afirmed.
No. 245. Appeal dismissed.

WITHNELL v. WILLIAM R. BUSH CONSTRUIION
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 108.

Argued January 26, 1910.-Decided February 28, 1910.

A decree of the Circuit Court sustaining a deniurrer to a complaint
1praying that an assessment for construction of a street be declared,
void as depriving plaintiff of his property without due process of
law, affirmed by a divided court without opinion.

brief of the appellee contains the following statement:
This is a bill in equity. The Parties to the suit, plaintiff
and defendants, are all residents of Missouri and of the same
judicial district in that State. The subject-matter of the suit
is the contention on the part of the .plaintiff that the two
special tax bills described in the complaint, issued against his
property, by the public authorities of St. Louis under the
charter of that city, as a local assessment for the,construction
of a street, are void. The tax bills are claimed to be void for
one of two reasons, stated in tiol
alternative, namely, first, because the assessment district, as formed, and which incli(les
the plaintiff's l)roperty, is not in (onformity to the charter
THE

