TOXA\VAY HOTEL -CO. v. SMATHERS.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

TOXAWAY HOTEL COMPANY v. SMATHERS & CO.
CERTIFICATE

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS; FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. SS.

Submitted January 1,

1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

A. corporation engaged, )rincil)ally in running hotels is not-a corporation engaged principally in trading or mercantile pursuits within

the meanilig of -§ 4, subs. b. of the Bankruptcy Act of 1808.
Where Congress has not expressly (leclared a word to have a partic- ular meaning, it will be presumc( to have used the word, in its well,nderstood public anid judicial meaning, and cases based on a declaration made by Parliament that the word has a icertain meaning
-are not in point in determining the intent of Congress in using the
word.
An occupation that is not trading is not a mercantile pursuit.
A corporation not otherwise aftienable to the Bankruptcy Act does not
become so because it incidentally engages in mercantile pursuit;
and so held as to a hotel company which, in addition to inn-keeping
'in which it was princi)ally engaged, conducted a small store as an
incident to its hotel business.

FROM the facts certified it appears that the Toxaway Hotel
Company was, in May, 1905, duly incorporated un(ler the laws
of Georgia. Among the purposes of the company, as stated
in the a)plication for incor)oration, were these, "to conduct

hotels for the accommodation of the public, ...
to keep,
manage, conduct and carry on the business of running hotels,
cottages, ims and restaurants, with their usual and necessary
adjuncts, including -the running of billiard and pool rooms'
bowling alleys, buying aid selling liquors and tobacco in all
their forms, Conducting and leasing news _and book stands;

baths of all kinds, to conduct livery stables, operating farmand fish hatcheries, to run omnibuses and transfer lines, together with all other pursuits incident to the operation of
hotels." -The company acquired and operated six hotels,
situated in a thinly populated part of the Inountains of western

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

North Carolina, having an aggregate capacity of seven hundred and fifty guests. These were carried on from March,
1905, until October, 1906, when an assignment was made.
Withiin 'four months after such assigimcIt creditors filed a
p)etition soeking to adjudicate the corporation a bankrupt, as
having been "engaged principally" in trading and mercantile
pursuits. It contested adjudication and averred that it was
'not a corporation subject to involuntary proceedings, as it had
not been principally engaged either in "trading" or" mercantile pursuits," but was a hotel company, and, as such, was not
one of the class of corporations specified in the fourth section
of the Bankrupt Act, as amended.
-The material facts as to -the character of the business done
by this corporation are these:
"That the business done by the corporation at these hotels
during the first season, from March to October, 1905, as shown
by',the receipts, amounted to $119,171.36; and that done during the second season, from January 1st to October 1st, 1906,
as shown by the receipts, amounted to $127,136.01.
"That during 1905 and until June, 1906, -the ,said coirporation 'did no other business than conducting hotels, excepting
the, cultivation of a small farm connected with, one of the
hotels, for the -purpose -of supplying vegetables and garden
truck.
"That in June, 1906, said corporation acquired and began
conducting two country stores-one located at Toxaway Inn
And the other at Lake Sapphire, *and Fairfield Inn. In these
stdres were kept stocks of general merchandise, such as is
usually carried in country stores, to wit, dry goods, groceries,
notions, hats, caps, clothing, a small assortment of hardware,
flour, meal, meat, feed, etc., the average value of each stock
being from three to four thousand dollars.
"The said hotels were located in a thinly settled section of
the mountains of North Carolina, quite a distance from any
town; that the stores furnished the hotels from their stocks,
and, also,' with such produce and qther things necessary for

TOXAWAY IIOIEL CO. v. SMATI-ERS.
216 U.S.

Argument for the Toxaway Ihotel (o.

the hotels as came into the stores, and they, also sold goods and
merchandise to people generally;, and, also, bought and sold
some tanbark. That from two-thirds to three-fourths of the
goods handled by these stores went as supplies to the hotels
on orders from the stewards of the hotels, and the remainder
were sold generally, principally to employ6s of the corporation,
and also to the people at large. That th( business of thehotels
and the stores was kept without separation in one set of books.
The corporation, also kept a bar in the Toxaway Inn, at which
liquors were sold exclusively to the guests, and had a number
of boats and launches on the lakes at Toxaway Inn and at
Fairfield, which it hired to patrons when called for.
"That said corporation ,employed about 130 persons in and
about the hotels, and four persons in and about the stores."
Upon these facts the bankrupt court adjudicated the corporption bankrupt. An appeal was allowed to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and the question certified as to whether, upon the
facts stated, this hotel company is subject to the provisions
of the Bankrupt Act and liable to be adjudicated a bankrupt.
Mr. T. F. Davidsqn, Mr,Louis M. Bourne, Mr. Haywood
Parker, Mr. John M. Slaton, Mr. Ben Z. Phillips, for the
Toxaway Hotel Company:
The facts show that the Toxaway Hotel Company was a
corporation whose principal business was to conduct hotels,
which isneither a 'manufacturing, trading, printing, publishing, mining,, or moercantile pursuit, and therefore under §4,
subd. bis not subject to the bankruptcy law.
I The present bankruptcy law has restricted the corporations
against whom proceedings can be taken, and many corporations which were in'the purview of the law of 1.867 are not
,amenable to the present law. While in Re San Gabriel Sanitorium Co., 95 Fed. Rep. 271, a sanitorium company was held
subject to the bankruptcy law-that case has never been followed but has been disapproved. See Re Cameron Ins. Company, 96 Fed..Rep. 756; and Re N. Y. & Wetrhester Water

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
A rgument for the Toxaway Hotel Co.

216 U. S.

,Co., 3 Am. B. Rep. 508; aff'd sub. nom., Re Morris, 102 Fed.
Rep. 1004,'which are the two leading cases on the question.
Following the reasoning of these cases, and in the twentysix cases cited courts have held the corporations under consideration
not amenable to the bankruptcy law:'
Massachusetts:
Re H. .J. Quimby Freight F. Co., 10 Am.
B.
Rep. 508; Re N. Y. Building & Loan Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 471;
Re N. Y.-& N. J. Ice Lines, 14 Am. B. Rep. 61.
New Jersey: Re Tontine Surety Co., 8 Am. B. Rep. 421.
Pennsylvania: Re Oriental Society, 5 Am. B. Rep. 219; Re
Woodside Coal Co., 5 Am. 3. Rep. 186; Re Keystone Coal Co.,
6 Am. B. Rep.. 377; Re Phil & Lewes Co., 7 Am. B. Rep. 707;
First Nat. Bank v. Wyoming, 14 Am. B. Rep. 448; Gallagher v.
Delancey Stables, 19 Am. -B. Rep. 801.
Virginia: Re McNichol Const. Co., 14 Am. B.-Rep. 188.
Georgia: Re Fulton Club, 113 Fed. Rep. 997.
Alabama: McNamara v. Helena Coal Co., 5 Am. B. Rep. 48.
Texas: Re Bay City IrrigationCo., 14 Am B. Rep. 370.
Missouri: Re Cameron Town Insurance Co., 2 Am. B. Rep.
372; Re Chicago & Joplin Co., 13 Am. B.. Rep. 712.
Illinois: Re Snyder & Johnson Co., 13 Am. B. Rep. 325.
Michigan: Re Toledo Cement Co., 19 Am. B. Rep. 117.
Wisconsin: Re White Star Laundry Co., 9 Am. B. Rep. 30.
Colorado: Re Elk Park M. & Mining'Co., 4 Am. B. Rep.
131; Re"Chesapeake Fish & Oyster Co., 7 Am. B. Rep. 173.
Arizona: Re Min. & Ar. Construction Co., 60 Pac. Rep. 881.
California:' Re Pacific Warehouse Co., 10 Am. B. Rep. 474;
lerron Co. v. Superior Court, 68 Pac. Rep. 814.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in eight circuits have 'passed
on the question in the following eighteen cases, and all, with
one exception- (that for the Eighth Circuit), have given a similar interpretation to the language of the act.
First Circuit: Philpot v. O'Brien, 11 Am. B. Rep: 205; White
'MountainPaperCo. v! Morse et al., 127 Fed. Rep. 643; Burdick v. Dillon, 144 Fed. Rep. 737.
Second Circuit: Re Morris, 102 Fed. Rep. 1004; Re N. Y.

TOXAWAY HOTEL CO. v. SMATHERS.
216 U. S.

443

Argument for the Toxaway Hotel Co.

& N. J. Ice Co., 16 Am. B. Rep. 832; Re Kingston Realty Co..,
19 Am. B. Rep. 845; Altonwood Co. v. Gwynne, 20 Am. B. Rep.
31; Re Wentworth Lunch Co., 20 Am. B; Rep. ?9; Re Marine
C. & D. Dock Co., 130 Fed. Rep. 446.
• Third Circuit: Re Zugella & Int. M. Agency, 16 Am. B. Rep.
6; Hall c Kaul v. Friday, 19 Am. B. Rep. 841.
Fourth Circuit: Butt v. McNichol Const. Co., 14 Am. B.
Rep. 1.88.
Sixth Circuit-: Columbia Iron W. v. Nat. Lead Co., 62 C. C.
A. 91); United States Hotel Co. v. Niles, 13 Am. B. Rep. 403,
reversing' the District Court, and holding that conducting a
hotel is jiot'a trading pursuit.
Seventh Circuit: Re Surety Guaranty Trust Co., 9 Am. B.
Rep. 129; Re Parmlee Library, 9 Am. B. Rep. 568; Re E. T.
Hill Co., 17 Am. B. Rep. 517.
Eighth Circuit: Re First Nat. Bank of Belle Fouche, 152
Fed. Rep. 64.
Cohgress did not so amend as to include water companies,
insurance companies, theatrical companies, restaurant companies, saloon companies; social clubs, carrier Icompanies,
companies buying and selling stocks and bonds, or laundry
companies, all of which had l)een decided not to be within the
classes enumerated by the act, and therefore not amenable to
bankruptcy; and' this, too, after the- very general circulation
and discussion of the proposed amendments as shown above
by the report of the ,judiciary committee. While this eourt
may think it advisable that corporations like the one here in
-question should be brought within the seope of the bankruptcy
*act, it must be guided by what, Congress has said, and not by
its own view of public policy. Re Quimby FreiqhCCo., supra,
and for history of act in Congress, see Cong. Rec., .1897,
Vol. 30, pp. 602, 606; Cong. Rec., 1898, Vol. 31, p. 1779, and
same vol., pp. 1939, 6298, 6427, 6428.
The House of Representatives on February 6, 1909, passed
a bill,' H. R. 21,929, further amending the present law, and
*which shows that the House clearly understood that the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for J. L. Smathers & Co.

216 U. S.

tention of the original law was to restrict the classes of corpo-

rations which. could be adjudged bankrupts. Sixtieth Cong.,
2d,Sess., 1I. R. Report, 1834, 1.2.
A hotel corporation conducting hotels is not engaged in a
trading or mercantile pursuit within the meaning of the
haikriiptey act. Re Chesapeake Oyster & Fish Co., 112 Fed.
Rep. 9(60; Be Barton Hotel Co., 12 Am. B. Rep. 335; Unitd
States Hotel Co. v. Niles, 134 Fed. Rep. 225; Gallagher v. Delancey Stables, 158 Fed. Rep. 381; Re Wentworth Lunch Compafny, 159 Fed. Rep. 413.
To be subject to the bankruptcy law a corporation must not
only be engaged in one of the pursuits enumerated in § 4,
subsection b, but must be "-principally" so engaged, a mere
ineidental occupation therein will not suffice. 1 Remington on
Bankruptcy, ed. 1908, § 85; Re Mackey, 110 Fed. Rep. 355;
Re Drake, 114 Fed. Rep. 229; Woodburn v. Drake, 120 Fed.
Rep. 493; Re Quimby Co., 10 Am. B. Rep. 424; Philpot v.
O'Brien, 11 Am. B. Rep. 205; Bank v. Matney, 132 Fed. Rep.
75; Rice v. Bordner, 14-1 Fed. Rep. 566; Zugella v. Int. Mer.
Agency, 16 Am. B. Rep. 67; McNamara v. Helena Coal Co.,
,5 Am. B. Rep. 48.
Mr. Julius C. Martin for J. L. Smathers & Co.:
A hotel corporation is subject t6 bankruptcy as a corporation engaged in trading or mercantile pursuits under § 4,
subd. b of the act of 1898.
A trader is "one whose business is to buy and sell merchandise or any class of goods deriving a profit from his dealings."
Bouvier's Law Dict.; Re Smith, 2 Lowell, 69i; S. C., 22 Fed.
Cas. No. 12,981; Re Chandler, 1 Lowell, 478; S. C., 5 Fed. Cas.
No. 2,591; 4 Nat. Bankr. Reg. 213; Wakeman v. Hoyt, 28 Fed.
Cas. No. 17,051.
Among persons held to be traders under former acts are:
Bakers, Re Cocks, 5 Fed. Cas. No. 2,933; inn-ke!pers, Re Ryan,
21 Fed. Cas. No. 12,183; livery stable keepers, Re Odell, 18
Fed. Cas. No. 10,426.

TOXAWAY HOTEL CO. v. SMATIIERS.
216 U. S.

.145

Opinion of the Court.

Under the present act the following persons, among otl rs,
have been held to l)e traders: Livery stable keepers, Re Alorton, 108 Fed. Rep: 791; Sanitaritum Company, Re San Gabriel
ASanatorium Company, 95 Fed. Rep. 271; Re Barton Hotel
Company, 12 Am. 3. Rep. 405; Real Estate Company, 154 Fed.
Rep. 299; Lauiidrv (ompany, 132 Fed. Rep. 266. Constructing and repairing vessels is a mercantile pursuit, see 127
Fed. Rep. 99; Mercantile Agency, Re ilercantile Agency, 111
Fed. Rop. 152.
The Toxaway Hotel Company was both' a buyer
and a seller.
Re Odell, Fed. (,as., No. 10,42(6.
Each.case will necessarily tarn o'n its own facts. It is not
to be doubted, however, in this paiticua, that the law is to be
interpreted liberally to effectuate its purpose, that is, that all
business corporations, as distinguished from )ublic, quasipublic, money-savinig 'or lending corporations, shall be amenable to bankruptcy. , Collier on Bankruptcy, 5th ed'., p. 64.'
It does not appear in the record in this case whether the
debts of the creditors set out in the petition were debts contracted by the company as a merchant, for goods sold to its
stores,'or as a hotel keeper for provisions sold it for its hotels.
These matters are important, See Armstrong v. Fernandez,
208 U. S. 324, 330; Olive v. Armour Company, 167 Fed. Rel).
517. The language of the statute, when construed according
to the natural meaning of the words, would refer to the occupation of the alleged bankrupt as of the time of filing the petition in the case. Flickenger v. FirstNat. Bank, 145 Fed. Rap.
162. The occupation at the time of committing the alleged
act of bankruptcy is the test. At that time (November) the
Hotel Company was engaged exclusively in mercantile business, as the hotels were closed. Re Mats6n, 123 Fed. Rep. 743.
MR. JUSTies LURTON, after stating the facts as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of 1867 applied to "all moneyed business or corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

mercial corporations and joint-stock companies." The present act.applies only to such corporations as'are "principally
engaged" in certain enumerated kinds of business. That of
in-keeping, though as old'as civilization, is not specifically
enumerated. Unless, therefore, a corporation engaged in the
business of hotel keeping is embraced within one or the other
of those which are enumerated, it is not liable to an involuntary adjudication.
The contention is that this was a corporation principally
engaged in "trading" .or "mercantile pursuits."
For the present we shall only deal with the bare question as
to whether inn-keeping is within a proper definition of:" trading" or "mercantile pursuits." The keeping of a bar, cigar
and Pews stand are obviously but ordinary incidents, to the
main business when conducted within the inn, and primarily
for the convenience of guests. The maintenance of a livery
and of small pleasure boats for the accommodation of guests
may also be accepted- as merely incidental to that class of
hotels called resorts. The significance of the fact that this
company did, in addition to the ordinary business of hotel
keeping, engage to a certain extent in an outside trading or
mercantile business will later be considered.
Having thus harrowed the question, we must answer that a
corporation engaged principally in running hotels is not a
corporation engaged principally in "trading" or "mercantile
puisuits." An innkeeper is one who maintains a hotise for
the entertainment of strangers, for a reasonable compensaa: lien upon the
tion. To secure this compensation he is given
property of his guests within the inn. For this property he
is under liability much like that of a common carrier. So
long as he has room, he must receive all who may apply and
are fit persons. He may .not discriminate. To say that he
buys and sells articles of food and drink is only true in a
limited sense. Such articles are not bought to be sold, nor
are they sold again, as in ordinary 'commerce. They are
bbught to be served as food or drink, and the price includes

TOXAWAY ItOTEL CO. v. 8M.VrilEiRs.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rent, service, heat, light, etc. To say that SIu(h a busiiwNs is
that of a "trader" or a "iercaintile pursuit." is giviig I ose
words an elasticity of meaning not according to conmion

usage.
Until changed by a Parliamentary declaration in 1S25,
Act 6, George IV, c.16, defining the persols intcluded under
the term "trader," as used in the bankrupt and insolvency
acts, it was held that an innkeeper was not a tradesman.
Newton v. Trigg, I Showers, 96; Luton v. Bigg, Skinner,
276, 201; Willitt v. Thomas, 2 Chitty, 691.
In Luton v. Bigg it was said of an innkeeper: "He is in the
nature of a public personi, and his house and occupation a
thing of necessity, and his gain does not arise from the victuals
which he sells, but from his furniture and attendance."
In Newton v. Triyg, cited above, it was said: "An imkeeper cannot get his own prices, but is bound to a reasonable
price. A tradesman may sell to whom he pleases. An innkeeper cannot refuse his guest. He doth not get by buying
and selling. He gets by the price and hire of his lodging, also
by the profit on the ale of kitchen. The profits from his
stables do not arise from. hay alone,'but from the standing."
Congress having never by express legislation declared an
innkeeper a "trader," it must be presumed to have used the
word in its well-understood public and judicial meaning, and
cases based upon a Parliamentary meaning arc not in point.
See Hall v. Cooley, Fed. Case No. 5,928, and'In re Cote, Fed.
Case No. 3,267, where Judge Lowell, referring to the declaratory act giving a list of occupations which should constitute
trading, said that Congress "had not defined a tradesman and
the question was therefore addressed to the common usage of
this country and to the judge's knowledge of his own language." He defined a tradesman "as substantially the same
as shopkeeper." In the case styled In re Smith, Fed. Case
No. 12,981, the same learned judge adopted the definition of
Bouvier, Who defines a tradesman as "one who makes it his
business to buy merchandise or goods or chattels to sell again

OCTOBER.TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

for the purpose of making a profit." If the occupation of
inn-keeping is not "trading," it is not a "mercantile pursuit,'"
for little more than a broader significance can be given to that
term than to 'trading." It is, in fact, trading in the larger
sense. "Mercantile" is defined "as having to do with trade
or commerce; of or pertaining to mei'chants, or the traffic
carried on by merchants" (Century Dictionary). Te be
principally engaged in a mercantile pursuit one must be
carrying on commerce in some of its branches. See In re
Cameron Insurance Co., 96 Fed. Rep. 756; Loveland on Bankruptcy,
"4;
In re New York & W. Water Co., 98 Fed. Rep.
711. The conclusion we reach accords with that announced
by the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in In re United States
Hotel Co., 134 Fed. Rep. 225, where the matter is considered
and the cases bearing upon the subject reviewed.
But it is said that although this was a hotel company and
engaged. in -doing the business of an innkeeper, it was in fact
principally engaged in trading and mercantile pursuits. If so,
that is the end of the matter, for liability under the act is
dependent upon what it was actually doing rather than upon
what it was organized to do or professed to be doing. See Friday v. Hall & Kaul Co., just decided.
It may have been engaged in doing two' distinct kinds of
business.. But unless this corporation was "engaged principally" in mercantile pursuits, it was not amenable to the
act. "Eihgaged principally" are plain words of no ambiguous meaning. They need no construction. Amenability to
the statute must turn upon the facts of the case where, as
here, the same corporation was engaged in "mercantile pursuits" in addition to inn-keeping. There is no way to settle
whether it was "engaged principally" in the one or the other
but by a comparison of the two. When we do this it is easy
to see that the mercantilebusiness which it did was of minor
character and was largely, an incident to the location of the
hotels of the company in a thinly settled mountainous region.
The stores were country stores-that is, stores-dealing in a

FRIDAY v. HALL & KAUL CO.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

great variety of ordinary necessities.

From two-thirds to

three-fourths of the goods handled were used in the running
of the hotels, upon order of the stewards. Much of the
remainder were sold to the employ6s, and the rest to customers at large, who paid in money or bartered country
supplies for goods. The average stocks carried were from
three to four thousand dollars in value. They were in a large
sense hotel commissaries. The business was done but for one
season. If we compare the volume of that done by the innkeeping business proper with that done by the stores the
minor character of the latter is plain. The hotels employed
one hundred and thirty persons; the two stores, four. The
receipts of the hotel business plus the mercantile businessfor all were kept upon one set of books-for the year 1906
were $127,136.01. The receipts for the previous year, when
no stores were operated, were $119,171.36. The volume of
mercantile business must have been small compared to the
volume of the hotel business proper. That the company was
"engaged principally" in the hotel business proper is plain.
It was, therefore, not amenable to the act.
The answer to the interrogatory of the Circuit, Court of
Appeals must, therefore, be in the negative.

FRIDAY v. HALL AND KAUL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI

TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 68.

Argued January 10, 1910.-Decided February 21,. 1910.

"Manufacturing," as used in the Bankrupt Act of 1898, has no meaning
from adjudication as used in former laws, nor has it any technical
meaning.

In construing the act the intention of Congress to in-

clude corporations engaged in manufacturing will be regarded by
giving the term a liberal, rather than a narrow, meaning.
A corporation organized to construct railroads, buildings and other

VOL. CCxvI-29

