. 262

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus..

216 U. S.

legal right to obtain the orlder sought.. See Bates & Guild Co.
v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, 108.
"A court in such case ought n6t to interfere in the administration of a great department like that of the Post Office by
,an injuriction, which directs the department how to conduct
the business thereof, where the party asking for the injunction
has no clear right to it."
We do not deem it necessary to consider other questions
discussed by counsel, for, upon the facts presented and for
the reasons stated, we are of opinion that there is not enough
to show such clear right in the complainant as justifies the
setting' aside-of the order of the First Assistant Postmaster
General.
The deciee is, therefore,
Affirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE OF
KANSAS EX REL. RAILROAD COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 38. Argued .November 30, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

The fact that a railroad company is chartered by another State and
has projected its lines through several States does not make all of
its business interstate commerce -and render unconstitutional, as
an interference with, and burden upon interstate commerce, reasonable regulations of a State Railroad Commission applicable to a
portion of the lines wholly within, and which are valid under, the
laws of that State.
Qua.re whether on writ of error where the constitutional question is
whethdr a rate or duty prescribed by a state commission amounts
to deprivation of property without due process of law, this court is
bound by a finding of the state court that a rate or duty is not,
actually confiscatory.
There is a difference between 'the exertion of the legislative power
to establish rates in such a manner as to confiscate the property
of a public service corporation by fixing them below a remunerative

MO. PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

standar(d md one compelling tlhe corporation to render a service
which it is essentially its duty to perform; and an order directing
a railroad company to run a regular passenger train over its line
instead of a mixed passenger and freight train, is not, even if such
train is run at a loss, a deprivation of property Without due process
of law, or a taking of private property for public use without eonipensation; no, is such an order an unreasonable exercise of governmental control. Such an order if made by the railroad commission
of a State is not an interference with, or burden -upon, interstate
commerce if it relates to a portion of the line wholly within that
State.
A state statute making )rovisions for passengers riding on the caboose
of freight trains will not be construed as a declaration of the State
that there is no distinction between passenger train service and
inixed train service, especially where, as.in Kansas, the liability of
the iailroad is limited as to persons riding in cabooses.
An order cannot be said to be such an unreasonable exertion of authority as to amount to deprivation of property without due process
of law, leeC~use inade operative only to the limit of the right to do so.
While r'aily property is susceptible of private ownership and proteited 1y constitutional guarantees, these rights are not abridged
1)y being subjected to governmental power of reasonable regulation.
Where a contract is held subject to the reserved'power to alter, amend
or repeal, tie right conferred, whatever be its, extent, is subject to
such reserved power; and so held that a charter privilege to regulate
train s(rvice is subject to the reasonable and otherwise legal order
of a commission created 'ythe legislature, and such an order is not
invalid under the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
An order of the railroad commission of a State requiring a train to be
run from a point within thtt+
State to the state line is not invalid if
otherwise legal, as an interference with, or burden upon, interstate
cominere Ibecause there are no present terminal facilities at the
state line and it is more convenient to the corporation to run the
train to a fturther point intihe adjoining State.
76 1Kansas, 467. ahimed.
TE.facts ;it-(- stated in the opinion.

Mr. Ialc 1). 1I. g.ener for plaintiff in error:
TheI rer
, of the boar'd and the niandlate of the state court
were, inl sumbstalte, and effect, a regulation of commerce among
th

State',
'

atit

biyonl the jttisdiction.

L.-& N. R. R. Co.

OCTOBER TERM. 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

v. Eubanks, 184 U. S. 27; Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 480, 489.
It is not the wording of the regulation, but the necessary effect thereof, which determines its invalidity. Henderson v.
Mayor, 92 U. S. 259; State Freight Tax Cases, 15 Will. 276.
The order of the board, on its face, is manifestly unreasonable, and, in the light of the findings of fact, arbitrary, and
without the first element of due process of law, and a denial
of the equal protection of the law guaranteed by the Federal
Constitution. It is not justified under the police power.
Welch v. Swasey, 214 U. S. 105.
It amounted to a taking of property for public use without
compensation. C , B. & Q. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 241.
The power of regulation is not without limit, and is not a
power to destroy or the power to compel the doing of the
services without reward, or to take private property for pnblic use without just compensation, or without due process of
law. Reagan v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 154 U. S. 3.62; L. &
N. R. Co. v. Central Stock Yards, 212 U. S. 132; Railroad
Commission Cases, 116 U. S' 307, 331.
A corporation may not be required to use its property for
the benefit of the public without receiving just compensation
for the services rendered by it. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466, 546; ,Dow'v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Ga. R. R. Co. v.
Smith, 128 U. S. 174, 179; Railway Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S.
339; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Railway Co. v. Gill,
156 U. S. P49; Road Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578.
When, as in this case, there is a conflict between the state
law, the courts and company, who is to manage the property?
That in no proper sense is the public the manager was held
in Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Chi. G. W. Ry. Co., 209 U. S.
108, 113.
The record shows that the separate train could not be operated except at a loss.
The enforcement of the order here complained of, under
the circumstances, disclosed by the record, would not be regulation, but confiscation. Atlantic Coast Line v. N. Car. Corp.

MO. PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

Argument for 'laintiff in Error.

Comm., 206 U. S. 1; Reagan v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 154
U. S. 362; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S.517; C., B. & Q. v.
Chicago, 166 U. S. 241; McNeil v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S.
543, 559; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Stock Yards, 212 U. S. 132, 144;
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.466.
The order of the board of railroad commissioners was a
usurpation of power by the board; and the construction
placed upon the law by the state court imlaired the obligation of the contract between the State and the railway coinpany, in violation of the Constitution. of the.United States,
and deprived it of its lropoty without due process of law
aod without compensation, and denied to it the equal protection of the law.
The reserve(d power to alter or amend could be exercised
only by the hgislature and not by the commission and until
the legislature acted the company has- a contract charter
right to regulate its train service that cannot be impaired.
JFletcher v. Peck, G(Cranch, 87: Dartmouth College v. Wood
icard, .tWheat. 518; Charles Bircr Bridge v. lVarren, 11 Pet.
420. Nor ean a vestedt right be taken way by judicial constru('tiol.
Dodge v. W-oolsey, 18 How. 360.
That \Nvoul l e(liually aniomt to impairing the contract.
State Bank v. Knorp, 16 Ho V . 391 ;Bridge Proprietors v. Hoo/c, Co., I Wall. 1 (G;:
Jeffer.on Bank v. Shelley, I Black,
-1:31; ("aircersitiy v. Peopic, 99 U. S.321: New Orlea s It. W|.v:
Sigar Co., 125 U. S. 36; L. & N. H. R. Co. v. J'aliner, 109
U.S.256.
The right of the company to regulate its trains applies to
Ii a1(1'as
r
lvel
as time, and as-to effect of word "manner"
as
tised in this conne(:tion, see, Railroad Co. v. Oincinnati, 1
)hi lrob. i'.269, 278; City v. Caulkins, 85 Pa. St. 253:
Bankers' Life Co. v. Robbins, 59 Nebraska, 174; Pitcher v.
Board, 20 II. App. 326: Peol e v. Railroad. Co., 176 Illinois.
176, distinguished. There is no statute of Kansas which specifically requires the coimp any to run this train, and so mandamus will not lie, Railroad Co. v. Dii. ti n, 1-12 17. S.492, and

OCTObER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

as to lack of power of courts to enforce the order adversely to
the charter contract, see' cases supra and Georgia &c. v.
Smith, 128 U. S. 174; Chicago R. R. Co,. v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155;
Peik v. Railway Co., 94 U. S. 164; Ruggles v. Illinois, 108
U. S. 526; Salt Co. v. East Saginaw, 13 Wall. 378; Stanislaus Co.v. San Joaquin, 192 U. S. 201, 206; Tomlinson v.
Jessup, 15 Wall. 458.
Mr. Fred S. Jackson, with whom Mr. G. F. Grattan was on
the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Supreme Court
of Kansas ordering a peremptory mandamus commanding
the Missouri Pacific Railway Company to obey an order of
the state board of railroad commissioners. The order directed
the putting in operation of a passenger train service between
Madison, Kansas, and the Missouri-Kansas state line, on
what is known as the Madison branch of the Missouri Pacific
Railway Company.
The branch road in question lies between Madison, Kansas,
and Monteith Junction, Missouri. From Madisoii to the state
line is 89 miles and from the state line to Monteith Junction
is 19 miles, the total distance between the tWo terminal points
being 108 miles. At Monteith Junction the Madison branch
intersects with the Joplin line of the Missouri Pacific, by
means of which connection is made with Kansas: City and
other points. There being no terminal facilities, at Monteith
Junction, the trains operated on the Madison branch do fiot
remain over at the junction, but run as far as Butler station,
three miles distant on the Joplin line, where terminal facilities'
exist.
. There are no large towns, on the Madison branch., either-in
Kansas or Missouri, and the country which-'that branch serves
is largely agricultural, Kansas City being the nearest and

MO. PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

most natural narket 'for the products of the territory. The
greater volume of the passenger travel, however, originating
on the Madison branch does not move to Kansas City by
going to Monteith Junction, but leaves the branch at various
points between Madison and the state line, at which points
-the branch crosses various roads, which, generally speaking,
run in a northerly or northeasterly direction, affording a
means of reaching Kansas City more directly than by going
to Monteith and thence via the Joplin line to that city. Three
of these intersecting roads are operated by the Atchison and
Topeka, two by the Missouri, Kansas and Texas, one by the
St. Louis and San Francisco, one by the Kansas and Colorado
Pacific, and one by the Missouri Pacific. Pleasanton is the
last station on the branch in Kansas and is six miles distant
from the state line.
Without clearing up some confusion in the record upon the
subject, we take the fact to be as stated by the court below,
that the branch between Madison and Monteith Junction, at
least so far as it Wvas constructed withini the State of Kansas,
was built by a Kansas corporation chartered in •1885, known
as the Interstate Railroad Company, and that to aid in the
building of the road wit'hin the State of Kansas about two
hundred thousand dollars.wascontributed by counties through
which the road passed.. A constructi'on company did the
work, at the contract cost of :$1,095,000, and this sum was
paid by the railway company by delivering to the contractors An issue of $1,622,000 of six per cent mortgage bonds.
The Interstat6 Railroad Company, in July, 1890, consolidated with another Kansas corporation known as the St. Louis
aii(l Emporia Railroad Company, the consblidated company
being (lesignated as the Interstate Railway Company. Subsequently, in December, 1890, by authority of a statute of
Kansas, the Interstate Railway Company and eleven other
Kansas iail'ray corporations 'were consolidated, the consolidated- company being designated as the Kansas and Colorado
Pacific Railway Company.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

The Missouri Pacific Railway Company is a corporation
chartered in Missouri, Kansas, and Nebraska. It owns virtually all the mortgage bonds issued by the Interstate Railroad Company for the. construction of the Madison branch
and'a majority of the stock of that company. Ind6ed, it is
the owner of'a majority of the stock and mortgage bonds of
all the constituent complanies which united in forming the
ConsoU(late(I company known as the Kansas and Colorado
Pacific Railway Company, anl, as the lessee of the latter
company, operates its lines of road, including, of course, the
Madison branch. It is not questioned that substantially all
the e(luipment used in operating the roads covered by the
leases is owned by the Missouri Pacific Railway Company.
In September, 1905, residents along the Madison branch
within the State of Kansas filed a petition with the board of
railroad commissioners, alleging, in substance, that only a
mixed train was furnished for passenger service on the brancti,
that such service subjected the public to great inconvenience,
invnteil anything like a regular and timely passenger servic,, an(d, besides, was dangerous to those traveling over the
road. An <der was prayedI requiring the Missouri Pacific to
operate a regulir i)assenger train over the branch road between Malison and the state line. The evidence introduced
before the boar(l is not in the record. After a hearing, the
folh)wing fudig and order was made (76 Kansas, 490):
Now, on this seventh (lay of December, 1905, after hearing the evidence an(I argument of counsel, in the aboveentitled action, the board finds that during the years 1902
and 1903, when the respon(ent railway company operated
a passenger train on said Madison branch of its line, that the
said passenger train was operated at a loss, and there was no
testimony introduced at this hearing that the train, if put oni
as asked for by the petitioners, could be operated at a profit.
to the respondent company. The board believes that tle
people along the line of the Madison branch of said company
are entitled to better p)assenger train service than they are

MO. PAC.'RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

now receiving, and it has been represented to the board by
officers of said company that the respondent is constructing
motor cars for establishment on its branch lines that can be
operated at a much less expense than steam service.
"It is therefore ordered by the board that on or before the
first day of May, 1906, a motor pas engcr car service be put
oni and( operated on said Madison branch, from Madison,
Kansas, to the Kansas and Missouri state line, and in the
cvent said railroa(I compainy is unable at that timc to put on
a motor car passcnger service, a regular steam passenger train
service be forthwith put on and operated."
The road not having obeyed, this proceeding by mandamus
was commenced to compel compliance.
Three special defenses were set up in the return to the a]ternative writ. In the first it was insisted that the branch
road was an interstate road(land could only be oplerate(l as
such, and, therefore, was not subject to the jurisdiction of the
railroad commission or the courts of the State of Kansas, and
in the second it wqs claimed that the burden which would
be occasioned by compelling the operat ii of a l)assemnger
train service wouldl be c)fiscatory anI iii viol:itioi of rights
protectedl by the Fourteenth Amendihn(it. The court below,
in its opinion, thus, we think, accurately summarized the
elaborate avernments relating to the two d(f(,ns(,s just referred
,to (76 Kansas, 470):
'To the alternative writ an answer was filed which denies
that the company operated the A'la(lison branch as a line of
road wholly within the State of Kansas, anmd alleges that said
branch is a part of the Missouri Pacific general system; th at
dh em(int mintaine(l terminal facilities for the said branch
at Hutler, Mo., twenty mies east of the Kansas State line,
Where the branch connects with the main line of defendant's
railroad1, that the company has no terntiml facilities near the
State linae within the State of Kansas, mid that the branch
road caimot 1bec
operate(I as a road within the State of Kansas
without such terminn] faciities, to maitain which would

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

involve the company in ruinous expense. It also alleges that
the order is unreasonable and confiscatory, and that the company could not comply~with it without great financial loss;
that the entire revenue of the road within the State of Kansas,
including passenger and freight business, is insufficient to
meet the expense and cost of operating the road within the
State; that from July 1, 1903, to April 30, 1905, it maintained
separate passenger train service upon this branch, but was
obliged to abandon the same and return to the mixed passenger and freight service because the total receipts of passenger and freight business during tthat period proved wholly
insufficient to meet the expenses of operation. It lurther al]eges that compliance with theorder of the board would conipel defendants to divert its revenues f1om other lines and
parts of its system outside the State of Kansas to the maintenance of separate passenger train servicein the State, and
that the extent- of such- additional cost would amount to a
confiscation of its property."
The third defense set up that the company was diligently
endeavoring to perfect a motor car for experimental purposes,
that, the practical utility of such service on railway tracks
was problematical, and that it was the design of the company
"to test the practicability of said character of service on its
said Madison branch line as soon as the same can be clone,
and is also its design to furnish said motor car service- for separate passenger traffic if the cost of said service can be brought
within the passenger service cost of the mixed train service,
:which it now furnishes, and if said motor car service can be
successfully operated from the standpoints of utility and
safety and other considerations necessary to be taken into
account."
By stipulation a referee was appointed to take evidence
and report findings of fact and conclusions of law. The refei'ee transmitted the evidence taken and made lengthy findings of fact, upon which his conclusions of law were stated,
Those conclusions briefly were that although it might be un1-

MO. PAC. RY. CO. v. KiNSAS.
216 U. Lo

Opinion of the Court.

reasonable to order a separate passenger train service to be
operated on the branch line, viewed as an absolutely independent line, it was not unreasonable to compel the furnishing of such scrvice, viewing the line as-a part of the system
of the Missouri Pacific road, and taking into account the possible benefits which might arise to'that system. It Was, however, concluded that as the branch road was an interstate
road, and could only be operated as such, the State was without power to compel the putting in operation of the passenger
train service between Madison and the state line, and that
the relief prayed for should therefore be refused.
It was recognized by the Supreme Court of Kansas whlen it
cane to consider the report of the referee that the authority
which the commission had exerted in making the order took
its source in a section of the act of the legislature of Kansas
enacted in 1901, and now found in § 5970, General Statutes
of Kansas of 1901, the section being as follows:
"Whenever in the judgment of the railroad commissioners
it shall appear that any railroad corporation or other transportation company fails in any respect or particular to eomply with the terms of its charter or the laws of the State, or
whenever in their judgment. any repairs are necessary upon
its road, or any addition to its rolling stock, or any addition
to or change of its stations or station houses, or any change

in its rates for transporting freight, or any change in the niode
of operating its road and conducting its business, is reasonable and'expedient in order to promote the security, convenience and accommodation of the public, said commissioners
shall inform such corporation of the improvement and changes
.,hich they adjudge to be proper, by a notice thereof in
writing, to be served by leaving a copy thereof, certified by the
commissioner's secretary, with any station agent, clerk,
treasurer or any director of said corporation; and if such orders are not complied with, the said commissioners, Upon
complaint, shall proceed to enforce the same in accordance
with the provisions of this act as in other cases."

OUTO B R T ERM, .1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

Reviewing the findings ani conclusions of the referee, tile
court held that the referee was -wrong in holding that there
was a want of power in the commission to make the or(l(r,
and it was therefore decidled that the order was valI(I anid that
the duty of the railroad company was'to obey it. 76 Kansas
467.
A brief summary of the questions )asse(I on hy the court
will serve to an un1(lrstan(jillg of the assigl(nts of (iror
which we are called upon to consider:
a. The court Ilisl)os(,el of certain contentions whi.h would
secim to have been raise(I at the alrgunmit c(onc.erning the r(l)ugnal'y to the state constitution of the law crating the
commission anl confterriig a ltho(wity upon1 that body, an d
hld tile oljections untenil)lc. As these involv(d mattvis of
purely state concern we shall not further refer to them.
b. TIhe court also aIversely dlislpose(d of a contention
1) asedI
upon the assumlption that the railway "collipany haI by its
charter a contract right to regulate the tinie anI maner of
l)elorating its trains, anti hence was not sul)jct to the ord,,r
which the
uommission had iralle. Althougoih such contention
did not deny that the charter right rclicd ol, was sl)j(.t to
repeal or amend(ment by the legislature, it was urged thai,
as the legislature had not expressly amlended or repealed the
right, such a result should not be luaIc to flow from the seetion conferring Iboweis Ul1101 the coinmiision, as repeals by
implication were not fLvorTd.
Having thus cleared the way for the graver lulestiolls which
the case involveI, the court eane t(o (o(1si(ler, first, 1,hcireasolableness oil its face of the ortlcr of-the, ('(mmission, viewed in
the light of the finlin gs of that boly seconld, tile reasoiiableness of the orler tested,by the finlinigs, I he refere "Ind the
vvillence u)on which such findings were hased; and third, the
validity of the Order ill view (of the poawer of Congress to regulate interstate commer ce as applied to the nature and chara(te(,of the road to which the order of the conmmnission was
mladc applicable.

MO. PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

' 273

Opinion ot the Court.

As to the first, although the duty of the company under its
charter was referred to and authorities were cited, with evident approval, holding that the obligation to operate a separate passenger, train service rested upon a railroad company
in the fulfillment of the law ,of its being, the court did not expressly pass-upon that aspect of the case, but held that as it
did not plainly and obviously result upon the face of the findings and order made by the commission, that the service required would be rendered at a pecuniary loss, it could not in
any event be said that the order was unreasonable on its face.
As to the second, considering the inherent and prima facie
reasonable nature of the service, the performance of which
the order commanded, along with the findings of the referee
and the evidence, it was held that the unreasonableness of the
order had not been established, since, taking all the foregoing
into account) it had not been affirmatively proven that any
material pecvniary loss would be sustained from rendering the
service in question. In reaching this conclusion it was pointed
out that as a result of the state statute a prima facie presumption of reasonableness attached to the order of the commission, and therefore the burden was on the railroad company
to overcome this presumption. As to the third contention, it
was held that the exertion by the State of its authority to
regulate the operation within the State of the road chartered
by the State was bit the exercise of a lawful state police power
which did not imlpose any (lirect burden upon interstate coinInerce, attd hence (lid not conflict with the Constitution of the
United States.
whil'h th railroad complnIy (de(ms it lnay.
The grievtis
endurle by the (,tforcmeritit of the order of the commission as
(,1b)y t0Ie ourt, are expressed it iany assignments
Id
con11a11
of error. To cotnsi(h'r tieut indetail is not essential, as all the
complaints which they entbrace were emtbodied in the arguiment at bar 1by the counse'l for the railway conma'mv in the
following proposi tions :
"First. The onrder of the board arid ie in andlate of the
Vor,, CCXVt-18

OCTOBER0

TERM, 1909.

Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

State court were, in substance and effect, a regulation of coniinerce among the States, and the court was without power or
jurisdiction in the-premises.
"Second. The order of the board, on'its face, is manifestly
unreasonable, and, in the light of the findings of fact, arbitrary, and without the first clement of due process of law, and
a denial of the equal protection ofthe law guaranteed by the
Federal Constitution.
"Third. The ord(er and judgment of th Statecourt, on the
evidence and facts found, deprived the ra:ilroad company of
its property without d(ie process'of law, and without com1pen-

sation, and denied to it the equal protection of the law.
"Fodrth. The order of the board of railroad comnissioners
was an usurpation of power' by the board, and the construction placed upon the'law by the State court impaired the obligation of the contract. between the State and the railway
company, in violation of the Constitution of tle United States,
and deprived it of its property without due process of law and
without compensation, and denied to it the equal protection
of the law."
While it may be that in some of their aspects each of the
first three propositions involve considerations apparently-distinct from the others, as. in- substance the ultimate reasons
by whic i alI three are controlled, are identical, we consider
them together. Before doing so, however, we dispose of the
question concerning the alleged impairment of a contract
right, protected by the Constitution of the United States,
which is forniulatect in the fourth proposition, by pointing
out the twofold contradiction upon which the proposition is
based.. As it is n(t deniel Chat the ass'erted charter righl was
held subject to the power of the State to repeal, alter or
amend, it follows that the proposition amounts simply to
saying that an irrepealable contract right arose from a contractwhich was'repealable. Hammond Packin'g Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322, 345. Stating the cont(,ntion in a different form, the same contradiction becomes apparent. As

MO. PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
216 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the argument concedes the existence of the legislative power
to repeal, alter or amend, and as it is impossible to assume
that a legislative act has impaired a contract without by the
same token declaring that such act has either repcaled, altcred or amended, hence the proposition relied upon really
contends that the contract has been, unlawfully impaired by
the exercise of a power which it is conceded could lawfully repeal the contract. -And, of course, this reason is controlling,
irrespective of the scope of the alleged charter right, since
whatever be the extent of the right conferred it was subject
t) the reserved power.
The. court in Atlantic Coast Line v. N. Car. Corp. Com'n,
206 U. S. 1, reiterating a doctrine expounded in preceding
-cases, said (p. 19):
"The elementary proposition that railroads from the public nature of the business by them carried on and the interest
which the piblic have in their operation are subject, as to
their state business, to state regulation, which may be exerted either directly by the legislative -Authority or by administrative bodies endowed with power to that end, is not and
could not be successfully questioned in view df the long line
of authorities sustaining that doctrine."
Also in the same case, restaing a principle preyiously often
announced, it was held- (p. 20) that railway property was
susceptible of private ownership, and that rights in and to
such property securely rested under the constitutional guiarantees by which all private property was protected. Pointing out that there was no incompatibility between the two,
the truism was reannounced that the right of private ownership was not abridged by. subjecting the enjoyment of that
right to the power of reasonable regulation, and that such
governpuental power could not in truth be -said to be curtailed because it could,not be exerted arbitrarily and unreasonably without impinging on the enduring :guardhtees by
which the Constitution protected property rights.
The -Cogt Line case was concerned with the exertion of

OCTOBER TERM,

1909.

Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

state power over a matter of state concern. But the salne
doctrines had been often previously exl)(inclI in reference
with a matter
to the power of the Unit(-([ States il(j(,aliii
subject to the control of that Government. Moreover, in the
cases referred to, as the power of the two governiients opcrated in (lifferent orbits, it was always' recognized that there
was no conflict between then, although it was constantly
to be observed that, resulting from the parmioiunt operation
of the Constitution of the United *States, even the lawful
powers of a State could not be exerted so as to directly burden interstate commerce...
Coming to apply the p)rincipls just stated to the ordecr in
question, an(I considering it generically, it is obvious th:it it
exerted a lawful state power. Its colilnanis w(ere directeI
to a railroad corporation which, although chartered 1)- other
States, was also chartcr(d by Kansas, and concerned the
niovenent of a train on a )ranch r ad wholly witlii n the State
which had been built under the audi(.hrity of a Ialnsas charter,
although the road was being ol)erate(l by the Missouri Pacific
under lease. The act commanded to be done was simldy that
a passenger train service be o)pcrated(l over the bralch iille
within the State of Kansas. IlcnI, s then for somew reason, not
nianifested in the order, intrinsically consid(lerc(, it In ust be
treated as such an arl)itrary aild uiireasonlable exercise of
an
:ut
io4 a rgnlati)oi
to )(,in ih't,
power as to cause it,
infringemncuint upo)01 the right (of ownerlship, or, cosiderig
the siurroundiimgreintmes asoperatjingr a1directlauleI
In
'htill,
is clear that, wit bin the
Ulpll ilt erstatev colliliierce, it,
.PIrviolislv statedI, nto e"rror was co iiillt leilllirliiig c(lmIliall(ce with the orler. Ani this Ilings ist. (ollisierthe
severa] ionsmii relied Uipol to cstahli, hi. irst, thal the order
l
a i i:iii
\, i i .40i
)lh tiv railroad (,lliii'ijs iI
Ilii l
reasoiiatie

secodli,

as to callSe it to.he voiI

that. the order wa,'s. void

(r'iti)ii was to place a
Iji(rc.

For wait, of powcr; or,'

e(,ause its ilecessary op-

lirect, 'burii upon interstate Coln-

MO. PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1. The alleged arbitrary and 'unreasonable character of tile
order.
In its principal aspect this contention is based on the insistence that the order and findings of the commission and
the fin(lings of the referee, when elucidated by the proper iihferenees of fact to, be (ilrawn from the evidence, show the service which the order commanded coull not be rendered without a pecuniary loss. And this, it is insist(,([, is the case, not
only because of the proof that pecuniary loss would be occasioned by performing the particular service ordered, consi(lering alone the cost of that service and the return from its
performance, but also because it is atsserted the proof establishes that the earnings from all sources, not only of the
branch road, but of all the roads operated by the Missouri
Pacific in Kansas, produced no net revenue and left a deficit.
It is at once evident that this contention challenges the correctness of the inferences of fact drawn by the court below.
They thirefore assume that we are not bound by the facts as
found by the court below, but must give to the evidence an
in(lependent examination for the purpose of passing on the
constitutional question pre(sented for deision. But we (o
not think that the case here presente(I requires us to consider
the iwsus of fact relie(d upon, even if it be concedled, for the
sake of argument only., that on a writ of error to a state court,
where a particular exertion of state power is assailed as confiscatory because ordering a service to be rendere(d for an inadequate return, the proof upon which the claim of confis'cation depenIs would be open for our original consi(heration,'as
the essential and only means f)r properly performiling our duty
of indepenldently ascertaining whether there had been, as alleged, a violation of the Constitution. We say this because,
when the controversy here presente(d is properly analyzed,
the first and pivotal question arising is whether the order
complained of did anything more than comnal( I th railroad
eouuupany to perform a service which it was incumbent upon
it to perform as the necessary result of the possession and ell-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

joyment of its charter powers, and which it could not refuse
to perform as long as the charter' powers remained and the
obligation which arose from their enjoyment continued to
exist. -The difference between the exertion of the legislative
power to establish rates in such a manner as to confiscate
the prol)erty of the corporation byj fixing them below a proper
remunerative standarI and an or(ler cOmlpelling a cor)oration to render a service which it was essentially its duty to
perform, was pointed out in 'Atlantic Coast Line v. N. Car.
Corp. Com'n, supra. In that case the order to operate a train
for the purpose of making a local connection necessary for
the public convenience was upheld, despite the fact that it
was conceded that the return from the operation of such train
would not be remmiuerative. Speaking of the distinction between the two, it was said (1). 26):
"This is so (the (listinction) because as the primal duty of
a carrier is to furnish adequate facilities to the public, that
duty may'well be compelled, although by doing so as an inci(lent some pectmiary loss from rendering such service may.
result. It follows, therefore, that the mere incurring of a
loss from the 'performance of such a duty does'not in and of
itself meessarily give rise to the conclusion of unreasonablehiess, as wouhl be the case where the whole scheme of rates was
un reasoiabhle under the doctrine of Smyth v. Ames .
..
*

*'I

*'

*

*

*

*

*

"Of course, the fact that the furnishing of a necessary fa-"
cility ordere(I may occasion an incidental pecuniary loss is an
important criteria to be taken into view in determining the
mreasomiablness of the orde, but it is not the only one. As
the duty to furnish necessary facilities is coterninous with
the powers of he corporation, the obligation to discharge
that duty imust be considered in connection with the nature
and productiveness of the corporate business as a whole, the
character of the services required, and the public need for its
performance."
Indeed, the principle which was thus applied.in the Atlantic

MO. PAC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Coast Line case had previously, as pointed out in that case,
been made the basis of the ruling in Wisconsin &c. Ry. Co. y.
Jacobson, 179 U. S, 287.. The fact that the performance of
the'duty commanded by the order which is here. in question
may, as we have conceded for the purl.ose of the argument,
entail a pecuniary loss, is, of course, as declared in the Atlantic.Coast Line case as a general rule, a circumstance to be
considered in determining its reasonableness, as are the other
criteria indicated in the opinion in that case. 'But where a
.duty which a corporation is obliged to render is a necessary
consequence of the acceptafice and continued enjoyment of
ifs corporate rights, those rights not having been surrendered
by the corporation, other considerations are in the nature of
things paramount', since it cannot be said that an order compelling the performance of such duty at a pecuniary loss is
unreasonable. To conclude to the contrary would be but to
declare that a corporafe charter was purely unilateral, that
is, was binding in favor, of the corporation as to all rights conferred upon it and was devoid of obligation as to duties imposed, even although such duties were the absolute correlative of the rights conferred. Was the duty which the order
here commanded one which the corporation was under the
absolute obligation to perform as the result of the acceptance
of the charter to operate the road, is then the qttestion, to be
considered.It may not be doubted that the road by virtue of the charter under which the branch was built was obliged to carry
passengers and freight, and therefore as long as it enjoyed its
charter rights was under the inherent obligation to afford a
service for the carrying of passengers" In substance this was
all the order commanded, since it was confined to directing
that the road put on a train for passenger service. True it is
that the road was carrying passengers in a mixed train, that
is, by attaching a passenger oach to one of its freight trains.
Testing the alleged unreasonableness of the order in the light
of the inherent duty resting upon the corporation, it follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

that the contention must rest upon the assumption that the
discharge of the corporate duty to carry passengers was so
completely performed by carrying them on a mixed train as
to cause an or(lek directing the running of a passenger train
to be so arbitrary And unreasonable as to deprive of rights
protected by the Constitution of the United States. But
when the necessary result of the contention is thus defined
its want of merit is, we think, self-evident, unless it can be
said as a matter of law that there is such an identity as to
public convenience, comfort and safety between travel on a
passenger service train and travel on a mixed train-that is,
a train composed of freight cars with a passenger car attached
-as to cause any exertion of legislative authority for the public welfare based on a distinction between the two to be repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. The demonstration as to the want of foundation for such a contention
might well be left to the consensus of -opinion of mankind to
the contrary. The unsoundness of the proposition was clearly
pointed out by the Supreme Court of Illinois in People v.
St. Louis, A. & T. H. R. Co., 176 Illinois, 512, 524, where it
was said:
"Independently of the provisions of the lease, which was
a contract between the lessor and the lessee companies, the
right of the people to insist upon the running of a separate
passenger train is implied from the charter obligation to equip
and operate the road. Inasmuch as a railroad company is
bound to carry both passengers and freight, the obligation
of the appellee required it to furnish all necessary rolling
stock and equipment for the suitable and proper operation
of the railroad as a carrier of passengers, no less than as a
carrier of freight. It cannot be said that the carriage of passengers in a car attached to a freight train is a suitable and
propei operation of the railroad, so far as the carriage of passengers is concerned. The transportation of passengers on a
freight train or on a mixed train is subordinate to the transportation of freight, a mere incident to the business of carry-

MO. PAC. RY. CO. v. KANS.\S.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing freight. To furnish such cars as are necessary for the
suitable and proper carriage of passengers, involves the necessity of adopting that mode of carrying passell-gers which is
best- adapted to secure their safety and conveniece. This
can be accoml)lished better by operating a separate passenger
train than by operating a mixed trniii ;that is to say, the duty
of furnishing all necessary rolling stock and equipment for the
suitable and proper operation of a railroad carrying passengers involves and implies the duty of furnishing a train which
shall be run for the purpose of transporting passengerl: only,
and not freight and p'assengers together."
Even, however, if it be conceded that the reasoning of the
case just cited may not. be universally applicable because
conditions might exist which in some cases might cause a
different rule to apply, there is no room for such view in this
case. This is so because, as was pointed out by the court below, the statutes of Kansas in force at the time the branch
road was incorporated lend cogency to the conclusion that
the effect of the ,acceptance of the charter \vas to bring the
road under the obligation of furnishing passenger service, a
duty which could not be escaped by giving the service only
on a mixed train and thus subjecting passengers to the resulting dangers ,nd inconveniences. Nor do we think there
is any force in the argument elaborately pressed, that chapter 274, Kansas Laws of 1907, as amended by chapter 190,
Laws of 1909 (which is in the margin),' shows that the law
1 Part

of Chapter 274, Kansas Laws of 1907, as amended by Chapter 190, Laws of,. 1909.
That all freight trains to which a caboose is attached shall be obliged
to transport, upon the same terms and conditions as passenger trains,,
all passengers who desire to travel thereon, and who are above the age
of fifteen years, or who, if fnder fifteen years, are accompanied by a
parent or guardian, or other competent person, but no, freight train
shall be required to stop to receive or. discharge any passenger at any
other point other than where such freight train may stop; nor shall

it be necessary to stop the caboose of such trains at the depot to receive and discharge passengers; provided, that on such trains the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

of 'Kansas proceeds on the conception that there is no distinction between a passenger train service and the carriage
of passengers on a mixed or freight train. On- the contrary,
we think the statute 'referred to sustains the opposite inference, ,since it recognizes that persons who avail of the right
conferred to travel in the caboose of a freight train are not
entitled to ordinary passenger facilities or to the legal protection ordinarily surrounding passenger traffic. The first, because the statute provides that persons must get on or off
the caboose where the company finds it convenient to place
that car) and second, because persons riding in the caboose
are afforded redress for injury only where the company is
guilty of gross negligence.
The contention' that the order is unreasonable in and of
itself, irrespective of whether there is profit in the operation
of the train service which the orler commands to be operated,
because it directs the movement of the passenger train di rected to be run to the state line, where, it is said, there are
no terminal facilities, and no occasion for the termination' of
the transit, is disposed of by the considerations previously
stated.. We say this because its unsoundness is demonstrated
by the reasoning which has led us to conclude that there was
no merit in the contention that the fact of pecuniary loss was
of itself alone adequate to show the unreasonableness of the
order. This follows, from the principle which we have previously expounded to the effect that, the. criterion to apply in
a case like th is the nature and character of the duty ordered
railroad companies shall only be liable for their gross negligence; and
provided further, that this act shall-not be construed to apply to
freight trains on main lines, the most-of which trains shall be composed of cars loaded with live stock.

Any officer or employ6 of such railroad company who shall violate
any of the provisions or conditions of § 1 of this act shall, upon con-

viction, be 'deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined iii any
sum not less than ten nor more than one hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail for not less than five nor more than

thirty days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.

Mo. P'AC. RY. CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and not the mere burden which may result from its performance.
2. That the order was void because it operates a direct burden
upon interstate commerce.
To support this proposition it is urged that the charter of
the Interstate Railioad Company, the builder of the branch,
provided for a road not only in Kansas but to extend into
Texas and Missouri, and therefore for an interstate railroad.
This being its character, the argument proceeds to assert that
the regulation of traffic on the road, whatever be the nature
of the traffic, was interstate commerce and beyond the control of the: State of Kansas. But this simply confounds the
distinction between state control over local traffic and Federalcontrol'over interstate traffic. To sutain the proposition
would require it to be held that the local traffic of the road
was free from all gqvernmental regulation, unless at the.same
time it were held that the incorporation of the road had operated to extend the powers of the Government of the United
States to subjects which could not come within the authority
of that Government coaisistently with the Constitution of the
United States. Manifestly, the mere fact that the charter of
the'road contemplated that it should be projected into several States did not change the nature and character of our
constitutional system and therefore did not destroy the power
of Kansas over its domestic commerce or operate to bring
under the sway of the United States matters of local concern
and of course could not project the authority of Kansas beyond its own jurisdiction. The charter therefore left the
road for which it provided subject as to its purely local or
state business to the authority of the respective States into
wh~ch it was contemplated the road should go, and submitted
the road as an entirety, so far as its interstate commerce
business was soncerned, to the controlling power conferred
by the Constitution upon the Government of the United
States.
The contention that a burden was imposed upon interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

cominer'e by causing the train to stop at the state line where

fhere we're no terminal facilities, but in a disguised form reit-(,at(,. the complaint which we have already disposed of,
iit I lie order, because of the direction to stop at the state
line, was s(oarbitrary and unreasonable as to be void. The
order (cannot be said to be an unreasonable exertion of'authiority, because the power manifested was made operative
to the limit of the right to do so. Besides, the proposition
e(,rroiIosly assumes that the effect of the order is to direct
the stoppage at the state line of an interstate train, when, in
fact, lic order does not deal with an interstate train or put any
•burden upon such train, but simply requires the operating
withini the State of a local train, the duty to operate which
arises from a charter obligation. It is said-that as the state
line may be but a mere cornfield and great expense must result to the railway from establishing necessary terminal
facilities in such a place, it must follow that the road, in order
to avoid the. useless expense, must operate the passenger
service directed by the order, not only to the state line, but
twenty miles beyond to Butler, on the Joplin line, where terminal facilities exist. From these assumptions, it is insisted,
that the order must be construed according to its necessary
effect, and, therefore, must be treated as imposing a direct
burden upon interstate commerce by compelling the operation of die passenger train, not only within the State of
Kansas, but beyond its borders. But under the hypothesis
ul)on which the contentiyn rests the operation of the train to
.Butler would be at the mere election of the corporation, and,
besides, even if the performance .ofthe duty of furnishing adequate local facilities in some respects affected interstate commerce,'it does not necessarily result that thereby' a direct
burd1en on interstate commerce would be.imposed. Atlantic
Coast Line v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328.
Affirmed.

