OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

WILLIAMS

v. FIRST NATIONAL
VTALLEY.

216 U. S.

BANK OF PAULS

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 130.

Argued March 9, 1910.-Decided March 21, 1910.

A question of a Federal nature is raised by the contention, if denied
by the state court, that a right or privilege exists under a Federal
statute to remove the case into the Federal court.
The power of this court to review cases removed from the United
States courts for Indian Territ6ry to the state courts of Oklahoma
under the provisions of the Enabling Act as amended by act of
March 4, 1907, c. 2911, 34 Stat. 1287, is controlled by § 709, Rev.
Stat.
Where plaintiff's right to recover is not predicated on any Federal
right, the fact that the defense is that the transaction was prohibited by Federal law does not make the case one arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States. Arkansas v. Kansas
& Texas Coal Co., 183 U. S. 185.
Compromises of disputed claims aie favored by the courts, Hennessey
v. Baker, 137 U. S.78, and the consideration on which a compromise is based will be sustained unless there is an express or implied statutory prohibition against the transaction.
There is no statutory prohibition against a member of either the
Choctaw or Chickasaw tribe, not holding any excess of lands subject to allotment, selling his improvements upon tribal land or
abandoning his right of possession thereof to another Indian.
Thomason v. McLaughlin, 103 S.W. Rep. 595, approved.
Where the asserted Federal questions are not frivolous, but are so
devoid of substance as to be without merit the writ will not be
dismissed but the judgment will be affirmed.
20 Oklahoma, 2.74, affirmed.
THE defendant in error commenced this action in the
United States Court for the Southern District of Indian Territory. The now plaintiffs in error were named as defendants.
S. L. and S. T. Williams are brothers, -and Jennie L. Williams
is the wife of the defendant S. L. Williams. Rocovery was

\VII,\MS v. 1IRST NATIONAL BANK.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

sought by the bank, as an innocent holder for value, before
maturity, upon a note for five thousand dollars, executed by
the d(efw(lants, dated February 4, 1904, and payable to the
order of Susan . Mays, with interest. The consideration for
the execution of the note was thus alleged in an amended
com)laint:
"Plaintiff further alleges and charges the truth to be that
the said note. was executed by the said Jennie Lee Williams
for thc benefit of her separate estate; that at the time of the
execution of said note a contest was pending before the Cornmission to the Five Givilized Tribes, which said body at said
ftime had authority under law to entertain and hear the same
between the said Jennie Lee Williams, one of the makers of
said note, and Susan E. Mays, the payee therein, to determine
which of the said parties had a right to take in allotment a
certain tract of land located adjacent to the town of Maysville, Indian Territory; that said [note] was executed by the
said Jennie Lee Williams, S. L. Williams and S. T. Williams,
in consideration of the abandoning of said contest by the said
Susan E. Mays, the payee therein; that after said note was
executed the said Susan E. Mays did abandon her contest,
and permit the said Jennie Lee Williams to take the said land
in allotment, which she did, and the said land thereby became and is her separate property."
The anended complaint w.as demurred to on the following.
grounds:
"1st. Because the said amended complaint does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, and does not
entitle plaintiff to the relief prayed for.
"2d. Because the transferee of a nonnegotiable note must
aver and prove consideration for the transfer; and the note
in suit is nonnegotiable, and plaintiff fails to aver any consideration whatever for the transfer.
"3d. Because section 16 of the Atoka agreement provides
the only legal way Indian lands may be sold, and where a
statute positively declares a thing cannot be done the law

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

will not suffer its policy and purpose to be thwarted by any
subterfuge or ingenious contrivance clothed with the semblance of legality. This was a short-cut attempt to sell 40
acres of land, title to which was in the Indians.
"4th. Because the Dawes Commission had exclusive jurisdiction to determine all matters in controversy between
members of the tribes as to their right to select particular
tracts of land for allotment, and to determine the rights, if
any, of Mrs. Susan Mays in the contest for said 40 acres of
land; but the original payee of the note sued on, for a bare
promise violated the law in such case made and provided. /
"5th. Because it appears from the'allegations in said cornplaint that the note sued on herein and for the amount and accrued interest of which the plaintiff seeks a judgment against
the defendants was executed pursuant to an alleged contract
entered into by and between the defendant, Jennie Lee Williams, and Susan E. Mays, in that said complaint shows that
the sole and only consideration of said note was the agreement
of the said Susan E. Mays to abandon a certain contest which
she had instituted against the said defendant Jennie Lee
Williams, before the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes
at Tishomingo, wherein she claimed the right to select as a
part of her allotment certain premises which had been filed
on and selefted by the said Jennie Lee Williams as a member
of the tribe of Chickasaw Indians.
"6th. Said complaint upon its face shows that the said note
was executed by the defendants to the said Susan E. Mays
for an illegal consideration and was executed without any consideration whatever, and of all this the, defendants pray the
judgment of the court."
The demurrer was overruled. In an amended answer,
thereafter filed, after admitting the making of the note and
averring that it was executed by Jennie Lee Williams as principal and by the other defendants as sureties, the following
allegations were made:
"1st. The defendants admit that heretofore, to wit, on the

WILLIAMS v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

4th day of February, 1904, they executed and delivered unto
Susan E. Mays their promissory note for the principal sum
of five thousand dollars, due ninety days from date, and they
admit that said note as so executed is copied in the plaintiff's
first amended complaint, and that the same is witnessed by
James A. Cotner, and they admit that the defendant Jennie
Lee Williams is a married woman and the wife of the defendant S. L. Williams,- but they allege and charge that said note
was executed by Jennie Lee Williams as principal and S. L.
,Williams and S. T. Williams as sureties.
"These defendants deny, as alleged in the complaint, that
said note was executed by the said Jennie Lee Williams for
the benefit of her separate estate; but they admit that at the
time of the execution of the said note a contest was pending
before the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes between
Susan E. Mays, as contestant, and Jennie Lee Williams, as
contestee, and that the purpose of said contest, as instituted by
the said Susan E. Mays, was to determine whether she or the
said contestee had a right to take in allotment a certain tract
of land located adjacent to the town of Maysville, Indian Territory; but these defendants deny that said note was executed
by the said defendants Jennie Lee Williams, S. L. Williams
and S. T. Williams, in consideration of the withdrawal of the
said Mrs. Susan E. Mays from said contest, as aforesaid; and
they deny that the said Susan E. Mays did withdraw her
contest and permit the said Jennie Lee Williams to take the
said lands in allotment; and that by reason of the withdrawal
of the said Susan E. Mays from said contest that said 'lana be-:
came and was the separate property of the said -d:tferidant:'
Jetnie Lee Williams; but defendants allege and charge the
truth to be that since the execution and delivery of said note
as aforesaid that said Commission aforesaid has duly awarded
and delivered to said defendant Jennie Lee Williams certificate to said land.
I "2d. But these defendants allege and charge the truth to
be that sole and only consideration of said note, as aforesaid,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

was the pretended and illegal sale of certain lands situated
near Maysville, in the Chickasaw Nation, Indian Territory,
by the said Susan E. Mays to the said Jennie Lee Williams;
that said pretended sale was illegal, fraudulent and void; that
the same was made, executed and delivered by said Susan E.
Mays to said Jennie Lee Willifis in violation of and in contravention of the provisions of a treaty made by and between
the Ulnite(I States and the Chickasaw and ChoCtaw tribes of

Indians in the year 1902, which said treaty was ratified by a
majority vote of said tribes and by act of the Congress of the
United States, and in violation of and in contravention of the
provisions of a treaty of the United States and the said tribes
of Indians, made, concluded and ratified by said tribes and
the Congress of the United States in the year 1898, and known
as the 'Atoka. Agreement,' and that by reason thereof said
pretended conveyance from said Susan E. Mays to said Jennie Lee Williams is illegal, fraudulent and void, and of no effect, and that by reasoh of the premises aforesaid the said
note herein sued for, when executed, was and hitherto since
has been, illegal and void and without consideration. A copy
of said conveyance, is hereto annexed and marked 'Exhibit A,' and made a part hereof.
"3d. And still further answering herein, the defendants
say that the plaintiff ought not further prosecute and maintain this action against them because they allege and charge
that at the date of the exeutton of *said conveyance from
Mrs. Susan E. Mays to Jennie Lee Williams, as aforesaid,.
said Susan E. Mays did not have the possession, right or title
to the premises in sWt conveyance described, and did not
own the improvements situated thereon, and had no interest
therein which she could convey to the defendant Jennie Lee
Williams, and that the consideration of the note herein sued
on for that reason has totally failed; all of which the defendants are prepared and' willing to verify, and they put themselves upon the country and pray the judgment of the court
that they be discharged, with tleir costs."

WILLIAMS v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
216 U. S.

Exhibit "A,"
lows:

Statement of the Case.

omitting the acknowledgment, reads as fol-

"TsHOMIINGO, INDIAN TERRITORY, February 4, 1904.
"Know all men by these presents4
"That I, Susan E. Mays, of Maysville, Indian Territory,
for and in consideration of the sum of one dollar, ($1), cash in
hand to me this day paid by Samuel L. Williams, Jennie Lee
Williams, and receipt of which money is hereby acknowledged,

and the further consideration of the sum of five thousand dol-

lars, ($5,000,) to be paid me by said Samuel L. Williams, Jennie Lee Williams, on the 4th day of May, 1904, which indebtedness is evidenced by a promissory note of even date herewith,
due on the 4th day of May, 1904, bearing interest at the rate
of eight per cent per annum from date, signed by S. L. Williams, Jennie Lee Williams and S. T. Williams. I hereby bargain, sell, and convey and relinquish all my right, title or claim
which I have in any way in and to the possession of the lands
and improvements situated upon the N. I of the N. E. j of the
S. E. t of see. 16, and the N. E. f of the N. W. I of the S. E. I
see. 16, and the S. E. I of the N. E. 4 of the S. E. -of sec. 16,
all in township 4 N., range 2 W., Chickasaw Nation, Indian
Territory.
"Relinquishing unto the said Samuel L. Williams and
Jennie L. Williams all rights which I have in and to the prodeeds due or to become due, or from the sales of town property, or my interests in the said townsite, located on the above
described premises, hereby relinquishing to them any claim
that I have by any former agreements pertaining to any
townsite on said lands above described.
"Witness my hand on this the 4th day of February, 1904.
"SUSAN

E.

MAYS."

A demurrer to the amended answer was sustained and, the
defendant refusing to plead further, judgment was entered on
April 14, 1905, in favor of the bank for the full amount of the
note, with interest and costs.

A writ of error was allowed

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

216 U. S.

and the cause was taken to the United States Court of Appeals for the Indian Territory. While the cause was pending in that court Oklahoma became a State, and by virtue of
the Enabling Act the cause was transferred to the Supreme
Court of the new State. On December 24, 1907, a petition
was filed on behalf of the plaintiffs in error in the Supreme
Court of the State, -accompanied with bond, and it was
prayed that the cause be removed into the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Oklahoma,
upon the ground "that by virtue of the 'Enabling Act it was
entitled to be so removed because the suit herein is of a civil
nature at law arising under the Constitution and laws of the
Uniited States." The application was denied, and, from a
judgment of affirmance th6reafter entered (95 Pac. Rep. 457;
20 Oklahoma, 274), this writ of error is prosecuted.
The errors ,assigned in substance are that the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma erred in overruling the application to
remove, in holding that error was not committed by the trial
court in overruling the demurrer to the amended complaint,
and in deciding that error was not committed in sustaining
the demurrer to the amended answer.
Mr. W. 0. Davis, with whom Mr. L. S. Dolman and Mr.
R. E. Thomason were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
While ordinarily a compromise of a disputed right will
su)pport a promise to pay, if the consideration for the promise
is the doing of that which is immoral, forbidden by law or
against public policy, the promise will not be enforced even
though it grow out of a compromise. If Mrs. Mays did not
have the right to seil unallotted land in the CIhickasaw Nation,
and of this there can be no question, the sale which was otherwise illegal, is not made legal by a compromise. The right of
Mrs. Mays to apply for unimproved land of which she was not
in possession, was a personal privilege and not the subject of
bargain and sale. It would encourage strife, produce delay,
and seriously interfere with the public business, if members

WILLIAMS v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
216 U.'S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of the tribe were permitted to, file 'contests'in order to extort
money or to be paid not to appear. Whenever there are conflicting claims to an allotment, the Dawes Commission has
tried the case upon its merits regardless of the agreement of
the parties.
The Secretary of the Interior has decided that any agreement made by the parties to an allotment contest may be
Creek Contest,
disregarded by the Dawes Commission.
No. 491, Quaber v. (G;reenleaf, 10th Annual Report. -No
dismissal or confession of jud(gnl(lIt il allowed. Testimony
must be taken and the land must be awarded to the person
who was the owner of the iml)rovements thereon at the time
of the filing of the first application. Creek Contest, No. 267,
Sookey v. Sith; Creek Contest, No. 260, Drew v. Conrad;
Creek Cotest, No. 263, Franklin v. Franklin; Creek Contest,
No. 326, Peivman v. Haikey.
The Federal courts take judicial notice of the rules of the
Land Department in contest eases. Coha v. United States,
152 U. S. 221.
The rights of the citizen claiming to own improvements
on more land than he is entitled to take, are purely personal
and he cannot convey title to any citizen as against one who
is in possession of the land. Chickasaw Allotment Contest,
No. 104; Chickasaw Allotment Contest, No. 821.
The Curtis Act was not inteided to give'illegal holders any
vested or other right to dispose of their illegal possessions to
the exclusion of other members of the tribe who have entered
upon and selected their pro rata share prior to aily attempted
transfers by those whose possessions are in excess of their
pro rata shares. Creek Contest, No. 759; Chickasaw Contest,
No. 112.
The bill of sale after the institution of a contest is not
binding on the commissioner. Chickasaw Contest, No. 197,
Jacobs v. Townsend; see Stevens v. Cherokee Nation, 174
U. S. 445; Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 307, and
.numerous other cases in which this court has had occasion

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

216 U. S.

to investigate and pass upon unfortunate 'conditions in the
Indian Territory.
The Curtis Bill and the Atoka Agreement, 30 Stat. at L. 641,
sought to remedy these conditions, and to prepare the country
for equal distribution among the members of the tribe, and
to give to each one his rights in severalty.
Where rights are equal and each member entitled to his
pro rata without cost and without price, one member of the
tribe who had no right to sell cannot charge another member
of the tribe five thousand dollars for the privilege of taking
forty acres of common land in allotment. Cooinbs v. Miller,
103 Pac. Rep. 590; Swanger v. Mayberry, 59 California, 91;
McLaughlin v. Ardmore Trust Co., 6 Oklahoma Law Jour.,

No. 11, p. 463; Lingle v. Snyder, 160 Fed. Rep. 627; Anderson
v. Carkins, 135 U. S. 483, hold that where the contract is
against public policy it cannot be enforced.
Mr. S. T. Bledsoe, with whom Mr. J. B. Thompson was,
on the brief, for defendants in error:
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma did not err in refusing
to grant the petition for removal; the petition presented no
sufficient ground. Carson v. Dunham, 121 U. S. 421; Water
Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 190; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Ann
Arbor R. Co., 178 U. S. 239; Gold Washing Co. v. Keys, 96
U. S. 199; Blackburn v. Mining Co., 175 U. S. 571; Shreveport
v. Cole, 129 U. S. 36; Florida Central R. R. Co. v. Bell, 176
U. S. 321. See also following decisions of the Court of Appeals
for the Indian Territory: Ikard v. Minter, 4 Ind. Ter. App.
214; Hewlitt v. Hyden, 69 S. W. Rep. 839; Turner v. (illiland,
76 S. W. Rep. 253; Blocker v. McLendon, 98 S. W. Rep. 166,
Thonmason v. McLaughlin, 10:3 S. W. Rep. 595; Arkansas v.
Kansas & Texas Coal Co., 1.83 U..S. 185.
Compromises are favored in law. If a case is tried one
party must ultimately lose. If compromises could be avoided
at the instance of the party who would have been successful
if the case had been tried, no compromise would ever stand.

WILLIAMS v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
216 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

If, in a trial upon the compromise obligation, the merits of the
original controversy could be tried, compromises would be
worse than useless in the settlement of litigation. Buckner v.
McElroy, 31 Arkansas, 634; 1 Parsons on Contracts, 444;
Mason v. Wilson, 43 Arkansas, 177; Richardson v. Coinstock,
21 Arkansas, 70; Burton v. Beard, 44 Arkansas, 556; Springfield & Memphis Ry. Co. v. Allen, 46 Arkansas, 220; Hennessey
v. Baker, 137 U. S. 78; Mills County v. Burlington & Missouri
River R. R. Co., 107 U. S. 557; Knotts v. Preble, 50 Illinois,
226; A., 7. & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Starkweather, 21 Kansas,
238, by Brewer, J.; Little v. Allen, 56 Texas, 133.
Under both the homestead and prelnption laws personal
residence for a given time, as well as improving the land are
conditions pre'cedent to the right to enter the lands or preenlpt
the same. This personal occupancy of the land necessarily
cannot be the object of barter and sale.
There is not now, nor has there ever been, any prohibition
against a member of the Indian civilized tribe selling his
imlrovements and right of occupancy. This right has been
exercised from time immemorial. These transfers have been
sustained by the Court of Appeals of the Indian Territory in
numerous instances.

The four. Arkansas eases, McFarland v. Malthews, 10 Arkansas, 560; Hughes v. Sloan, 8 Arkansas, 14.9; Carr v. Allen,
5 Blatchford, 63; Carson v. Clark, 2 Seamion, 113, can be
distinguished, and see Gaines v. Rector, 26 Arkansas, 192;
Gaines v. Hale, 93 U. 8. 3; Randon v. Toby, 11 How. 493.
The defendants seem to have repented their transaction,
repentance extending to an attempted repudiation of the
burden'of the transaction, but not to surrendering the tainted
property acquired through the alleged illegal transaction.
The transactions involved were not prohibited by law.
Nothing in either agreement prohibits a member of either of
said tribes from selling his improvements upon tr;bal lands

or his right to possession thereto to another member of the
tribe. In the absence of any statute to that effect Congress

OT(O lE1

TER0M, 1909.

Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

will'not he )resumed to have intended that the mmrnbers of
these tribes shouid lot II ie
ernittell to adjtist their allotmnents by acquiring the improvecnieits of other ineilhers
upon differeut tracts of hid. See Thotasof v. McLaughlh,
103 S. W. Rep. 595; 7'u'cr v. (;ililmto, 76
\V. Rep. 253;
Blocker v. Mckendon, 19S S. \V. Rep. 1i6. Not oiily was there
nothing illegal in the transaction, but thie. defeiid'auts havi ng
accepted, appropriated, used, and entjoyel thoe benefits reetrliing by virtue of the settlenietit entered ilito anld having appropriated the l)roceeds from the sa.le of certaiii pro)erty
as provided oil the jluit-'laiflm deed are now (st,op)ed Io (ontrovert the rights of the complainants to recover upon the
iote sued on herein.
MR. .JswUSTICE WVnIr;, after makitig the foregoing stateawnt,
dlliVer((d tile Ol)iIlioi of the court.
It additioii to discussitig the merits, the defend(ait in error presses upon our attentioi a motion to disiss, in substance upon the ground that 1o (1uestion of a Federal nature
is presented.- As the plaintiffs in error had nogreater right to
prosecute the writ of error than is possessed by suitors generally when seeking the review of a fieal judgment of a state
court (§ 20, Jlnabling Act, as amended March 4, 1907, c.2911,
34 Stat. 1287), it results that our power to review is coiltrolled by Rev. Stat., § 709. Irrespective of othier contentions,
beyond peradmventure a quest*ioi of a Federal nature, however, was raised by the contention, denied by the state court,
IhaL a right or privilege existed under a statute of the United
States to remove the 6ausc into the Circuit Court of the
Uhited States, and the motion to dismiss cannot therefore
prevail.

A8 to the denial of the right to remove.-The ' claim of plaintiffs in error is that the right to'remove the cause into the
Circuit Court of the United States arose from the fact that
it was a suit arising under the Constitution and laws of the

WILLIAMS v.
216 U. S.

'I1STr NATIONAL BANKi

Opinion of the Court.

United States, and that the right existed by virtue of § 16
of the Enabling Act, as anended on March 4, 1907, c. 2911,
34 Stat. 1286, the pertinent portion of which is as follows:
"SEC. 16. That all civil causes, proceedings, and matters
pending in the Supreme or District Courts of Oklahoma Territory, or in the United States courts or United States Court
of Appeals in the Indian Territory, arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, or affecting
ambassadors, ministers, or consuls of the United States, or
of any other country or State, or of admiralty, or of maritime
jurisdiction, or in which the United States may be a party,
or between citizens of the same State claiming lands under
grants from different States; and all cases where there is a
controversy between a citizen of either of said Territories
prior to admission and a citizen of any State, or between a
citizen of any State, and a citizen or subject of any foreign
State or country, in which cases of diversity of citizenship,
there shall be more than two thousand dollars in controversy,
exclusive of interest and costs, shall be transferred to the
propel United States Circuit or District Court established
by this-act, for final disposition, and shall therein be proceeded with ii the same manner as if originally brought
therein: Provided, That said transfer shall not be male ill
any such case where the United States is not a party, except
on application of one of the parties, in the court in which the
cause is pending, at or before the second term of such' court
after the admission of said State, supported by oath, showing that the case is one which may be so transferred. The
proceedings to effect such transfer, excl)t as to time and
parties, shall be the same as are now provided by law for the
removal of causes from a State court to a Circuit Court of
the United States."
In the petition for removal it was alleged in support of the
right to remove"That the said suit involves the construction of the treaties and laws and acts of Congress concerning tie allotment
VOL. ccxv-38

OUTOIE,

TERM, 1909.

Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

of lands to the (,hq(taw and (hickasawv tribes of Indians under the acts of' Congress arl)oved April 2,9, 1898, and the
act approved Jul y I,1902, comnonly kn.)Wn as tle At oka
and the Suppleientail Agreements b('tween the Choctaw aid
Chickasaw tri)es of 1 idas in the 110 afi Territory.'
"Petitioner shows that the controversy herein arises from

the following facts:
"On February 4, 1904, appellant exectited a promissory
note.to the assignol: of al phee for five thousand ($5,000)
dollars, (hue in ninety (90) days, With interest at 8 per cent
from date.
"That the consideration for said, note was 'that the ipayee
thereof should cease to prosecute further and abandon a cerFive
tain contest then pending before the Comnnission to tlh:,
Civilized Tribes, in which the payee was coitestant and the
appellant herein was contestee.
"That the appellee took said note with full knowledge of
the facts as disclosed by its pleadings. Appellant by demurrer and ansiwer claims that the consideration is contrary
to the letter and spirit of the act of Congress of April 29,
1898, and of July 1, 1902; that it is not a legal, .valid or any
consideration for the note."
The contention that the cause of action arose under the
Constitution or -laws of the United States is plainly untenable. Recovery by the bank was in no wise, predicated upon
any right'conferred upon it or.its assignor to contract, as ,was
done, and the fact that the makers of the note relied'for their
defense upon provisions containe.d in certain statutes as establishing that the transaction upon which the right to recover was based was prohibited by law, "would only demonstrate that the suit could not be maintained at all, and not
that thie cause of action arose under the Cor'stitution or laws
of thi United States.". Arkansas v. Kansas & Texas Coal Co.,
183 U. S. 185; 190.
As to the asserted Federal questions claimed to arise upon
the. rutimgs in re pect to, the overruling of the demurrer to the

WILLIAMS v. FIRST NATIUNAL BANK.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

amended complaint and the sustatning of the demurrer to the
amended answer.-In the light of the allegations of the complaint and the admissions (either express or implied from
the failure to deny) contained in the amend(d answer, we
think the record established that Susan E. Mays and Jennie
Lee Willians were members either of the Choctaw or Chickasaw tribe of Indians; that Mrs. Williams selected for allotment and filed upon forty acres of land, upon which were
improvements, situated adjacent to the town of Maysville,
Indian Territory. The right of Mrs. Williams to select the
land being disputed by Susan E. Mays, she filed a contest
against the same before the Commission to the Five Civilized
Tribes. When this was done, Susan E. Mays was not in the
occupancy of any other land liable to allotment. Pending
the proceedings, by way of compromise, Susan E. Mays
agreed to abandon the contest instituted by her and relinquish her right to the allotment of the land in controversy
and the improvements thereon, in consideration of the execution of the note in suit; that said note was executed for
the benefit of the separate estate of ,Jennie Lee Williams and
was delivered to Susan E. Mays, who thereupon abandoned
the prosecution of her said contest before the Commission,
and the allotment of the land to Mrs. Williams followed.
Compromises of disputed claims are favored by the courts
(Hennessey y., Baker,, 137 U. S. 78); and, prestmnplltively, the
parties to the compromise in question lpS(sse(d the right to
thus: adjust their differences. We cornc then to consider
wlhetlher,_ as claimed, there was a want of consideration for
the note because of an express or impled statutory 1)rolibition against the transaction which formed the consideration
for the note,.
In the demurrer to tie amenided complaint the clailn advanced to defeat the right to recover on'the note, which was
substantially reiterated in the amended answver, was that,
intruth, the sale was of the land and was illegal l)(ause not
made according to the method for acquiring allottable tribal

OCTOBIER TERM, 1909.
Opiuion of the Court.'

216 U. S..

land provided. for in :greenents bettween the (overnment
of the United States and the Choctaw and Cliickasaw governments, and because controversies as to allotments of land
over which the Dawes Commission had jurisdiction could
alone be determined by that body. We do not pause to consider whether these general. allegations constituted such a
special setting up of a right, privilege or immunity under a law
or laws of the United States as is required by Rev.-Stat., §709.
Considering the complaint and answer in their entirety, especially when viewed in the light of the allegations of the
petition for removal, it clearly results, as stated in the petition for removal, that "the consideration for the said note was
that the payee thereof should cease to prosecute further and
abandon a certain contest then pending before the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes, in which the payee was
contestant and the appellant herein was contestee." In, the
argument at bar, while counsel has referred to statutory provisions and to various decisions which it is asserted establisi that a sale by an Indian of part of an' excessive holding
of allottable tribal land or cf improvements thereon would
not be a valid consideration for a note given to evidence the
price of such sale, we have been referred to no statute nor
cited to any treaty or agreement iade with the India4 tribes
giving rise even to the suggestion that where a bonafide contest existed between two Indians as to right to a tract, or,
tracts of land arising from a claim based upon selection on
the one hand and on the other because of occupancy and
improvements, it would be unlawful for the latter to abandon
his contention as to his preferential right for a money consideration. Nor have we been referred to 'any statutory
provision which either expressly or impliedly deprived the
parties to a contest of their right to compromise simply because of the pendency of the contest before the Commission
to the Five Civilized Tribes. An opinion of the United States
Court of Appeals of the Indian Territory, a tribunal which
was specially-competent to pass upon a question, of the kind

WILLIAMS v. FIRST NATIQNAL BANK.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

we are considering, lends sul)port to the conclusion we have
reached that a member of either the (lioctaw'or Chickasaw
tribe, when as here there is no showing that such.a member
was the holder of an excess of lands subject to allotment, was
not prohibited at any time from selliitg his iml)rovements
upou tril)al land or albandoning his 'iilht to the possession
thereof to another Indian. The opinion referred to was announced in the case of Thomason v. 11cLaughlin, 103 S. W.
Rep. 595, in which (ase, among other (uestions, the court
passed upon the validity of a sale of tribal land by one Indian
to another after the enactment of the act of .June 28, 1898,
known as the Curtis Bill (June 28, 1898, ch. 517, 30 Stat. 495),
wherein, in § 29, is embodied the so-called Atoka Agreement.
After referring to a provision in § 17 of the act, limiting the
extent of an Indian's holding before allotment to the approximate share of the lands to which he and his wife and minor
children were entitled, and making it a misdemeanor to retain
the possession of an excess of such share after the expiration
of nine months from the passage of the act, the court said
(p. 598):
"Inasmuch as the sale in this case was made within the
nine months' limit, this, of course, would not affect the validity of the sale, even though Lafon had been in possession
of more land than that to which he was entitled. It is a wellknown fact that many Indiians, at the time of the passage of
this act, were in ipossessioni of large tracts of improved lands,
in excess of that to which they were entitled; and under the
laws and customs of the (ifferent tribes at that time this land
was lawfully held. The nine monthis' l)rovision was introduced into the Curtis Bill for the l)urlporse of giving them all
opportunity of disposing of the excess and thereby to get
some remuneration for the improvements which they, by
their labor and industry, had lawfully made upon the lands.
And there is no provision'in either of th(se section- , or anywhere else, that could be construed to deprive an Iitdiai in
this Territory of the right to dispose of his holdings to another

OCTOBI R TER0M, 1909.
216 U. S.

Syllabus.

lIndial, if he desired to do so , in order that he minilit sel('ct his
(otherlands. The stitute did ot intcnd that
ill India should be (.o01pelled to take his allotiiieit on tie
land th(1 held I)y 1ii11.
Ile Could sell his ill) provenilts and
holdings to another fnilian for allotment an(d lay his own oi
other land which le imight find vacant, or whi(h he miight,
in turn, purchase from aiot'h(er h1i(iar. This method was
adopted almost iiiivers:hhy by the Indians, and it was not
utilawfiil as bhtwee lnlians. But to hold anl excess of lands
after tlie (X)il'ation of the nine mon ths was unlawful and a
allotiint, ml

(crile."

\Vhile the asserted lederal questions are not so wholly I,voil o siibst"aIlie as to )e pur(ely frivolous, they are neverthe'less without merit, and the judgmiilt ilUist

)e

aldlit is
Affirmed.

MONSEIRATE GARCIA MAYTIN v. VELA.
BEATI IZ IDE LS)8 AN(E1E.
\V II)O\VO
WI
ALOS, v.
MONSEI{H, ATE ANID DO MINGA GARI .\ ,IAYTIN
A11I'iALS FR0M

Nos. 90, 245.

IIl

SqITRENE COURT ()'

I'()IUTO nTCO.

Argued March S, 9, 1910.-Decide, larch 21, 1910.

In 0i0 lScOsc(e of summons and severance all defendants against whom

a eCree i1 :a1 cquity suit is entered must join ill the app

irdee
a.

V. I'i.J'P, 146 U. S. 179.

li : suit coming from a Territory this court is not inclined to overthrow te assumptions of the trial court in regard to matters (ontrolled Iby the local law; and so hel in affirming a judgment ii a
case coming from Porto Rico involving questions of inheritance
aiil prescription.
Quare , as to the effect of Article 811 of the Civil Code of Porto Rico,
requiring :n ascendant inheriting property under certain conditions

