OCTOBElR TERM, 190,.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

tion complaints by shippers than by others. The argument
that. slippers were Ientioned to insure their rights ill case
of a refusal to connect with a lateral line is excluded by the
form of the statute, whicth obviotusly is providing the only

renedy that ('ogress has in mind. It may or may not he
true that the distinction is not very effective, but it stanls
in the law and m1st, le accepted as 1he, limit. of the Commission's power.
Decree afli rmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. NORTHERN
PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM TlHiE CIRCUIT COURT OF THfi
THE DISTRICT

No. 571.

tNITEI) STATES FOR

OF MINNESOTA.

Argued l'ebruary 2:3, 24, 1910.-1)ecided March 7, 1910.

Under ยง 4 of the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 589, giving
the Interstate Commerce Commission power to establish through
routes and joint rates where no reasonable or satisfactory through
route exists, the existence of such route may be inquired into by
the courts, notwithstanding a finding by the commission.
When one through route exists which is reasonable and satisfactory,
the fact that the public would prefer a second which is no shorter
or better cannot overcome the natural interpretation of a provision
in the statute to the effect that jurisdiction exclusively depends
upon the fact that no reasonable or satisfactory route exists.
As the Northern Pacific route from the points named to points between Portland and Seattle is reasonable and satisfactory, the fact
that there are certain advantages in the Union Pacific or Southern
route does not give the Interstate Commerce Commission jurisdiction to establish the latter as a through route against the objection
of the Northern Pacific Railway Company.

Ti

facts are stated in. the opinion.,

INTElSTATE COMM. COMM. 7. NOR. PAC. RY. 539
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. VIde H. Ellis, Assistant to the Attorney General,
and Mr. 1'. J. Farrell, with whom Mr. Edwin P. Grosvenor
was otl the brief, for the appellant:
The orlder of the Coninussion cannot be set aside by the
court nwn'rly for the reason that the court, if placed in the position of the ( onunfissioll, would not have ordered tile through
route. Section I of the Hepburn Act relates to through
routes and joint rates. This gives the Commission the power
to establish a through route, provided in the opinion of the
Commis.sion no satisfactory or r(asonna)le through route
exists. Whether or not a through route already in existence
is reasonable or satisfactory rests with the Commission.
Under Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 215
U. S. 452, the courts are without authority to set aside an
order of the Commission merely for the reason that the court
may deem the order .inexpedient. The determination of the
question of fact rests with the Commission, and not with the
court. Nothing can be found in the debates to indicate that
it was intended by Congress that the courts should have the
authority to answer the question. 40 Cong. Rec., pt. 3,
pp. 2244, 3115; pt. 6, pp. 6678, 6679, 6681.
In determining whether an existing passenger route is
reasonable and satisfactory, the first inquiry necessarily
must be whether that route fairly meets the requirements of
the traveling public. In this case the facts show that the
.public interests demanded the establishment of another
through route to Ptiget Sound points via the Portland gateway.
The authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission to
establish through routes rests entirely upon the provisions
of the Hepburn Act above quoted. Prior to the enactment
of that law, the Commission had no power to order the establishment of through routes or joint rates. Southern Pacific
Co. v. Interstate Comm. Comm., 200 U. S. 536; 0. S. L. R. R.
&c. v. N. P. Ry. Co.,,51 Fed. Rep. 465; S. C., 61 Fed. Rep.
I58; K. & I. Bridqe Co. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep.
565;. Little Rock & Memphis Ry. Co. v. St. Louis, I. M. &

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

So. Ry. Co., 41 Fed. iel). 559; S. C., 59 Fed. Rep. 400; S. C.,
G3 0Fed. llep. 975; A. C. & S. F. Ry. Co. Y. Miami Steamship
Co., 8(i ld.

Rep. 407.

As to what. is a satisfactory route see the Enterprise Transp.
Co. v. IPenna. R. B?. Co., 12 1. C. C. 326.
The kinid of a througl route.which will divest the Commissioi of its jm'islictioi in this particular must be as beneficial to the puiblic as the route which the Commission may
otherwise est:iblish. Loup Creek Colliery Co. v. Virginian
Rfy. (.'o., 12 1. C. C. 471; Chi. & Mil. El. Ry. v. Ill. Cent..R. R.
Co., 13 1. C. C. 20; Cedar Rapids & I. City Co. v. Chicago &
N. WF. Ry., 13 1. C. C. 250; Carditf Coal Co. v. Chi., Mil. &
St. 1'. Ry. Co., 13 . C. C. 460; Stedman & Sons v. Chicago
No. l|'est. Ry. Co., 13 1. C. C. 167; Pacific Coast Assn. v. No.
Poc. Ry. Co., 14 I. C. C. 51; Star Grain & Lumber Co. v.
A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 14 1. C. C. 364; Chamber of Commerce
of Milwaukee v. Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry. Co., 15 .1. C. C. 460.
The principles established by these cases cannot be questioned.
Under the English statute the Commission inquires whether
"having regard to the circumstances," the route proposed is
a reasonable one. Under our statute the language is that the
Commission shall establish a route sought to be opened,
"provided no reasonable or satisfactory through route
exists." The provisions of the two statutes are practically
the same in meaning. E. & W. Junction Ry, Co. v. G. W.
Ry., 1 Ry. & Canal Cas. 331; and see Caledonian Ry. Co. v.
N. British R. R., 3 Ry. & Canal Cas. 403; Swindon, Mo. & A.
R. R. Co. v. Great Western R. R., 4 Ry. & Canal Cas. 352.
The testimony supports the finding of fact of the Commission that as regards passenger traffic the existing through
route was not reasonable or satisfactory.
In determining whether an existing through route is reasonable or satisfactory the first consideration is the public
interest.
A wide difference exists between a reasonable through

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. NOR. PAC. RY. 541
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

route for passenger movement and one for the movement
of freight. -Into theformer there enters a personal element
which does not exist in the case of property.
The testimony adduced before the Commission supports
the finding of that body that a reasonable and satisfactory
through route for passengers did not already exist, and therefore the Commission was justified in opening the Portland
gateway by directing the establishment of another through
route.
* Mr. Charles W. Bunn for appellee:
When the Hepburn Act was passed it had been settled
that joint routes and tariffs were a matter of convention between carriers and that the act to regulate commerce contained no provision warranting their imposition by order of
wthe Commission. So. Pac. Co. v. Interstate Comm. Comm.,
200 U. S. 536; King v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co., 4 I. C. C.
251, 262; Independent Refiners v. Western N. Y. & P. R. Co.,
5 I. C. C. 415, 458; Clark v. L. S. & 1. S. Ry. Co., 11 1. C. C.
558; Re Alleged Unlawful Discrimination, 11 1. C. C. 587.
Therefore the amendment of 1906 confers on the Commission a new power which cannot be enlarged by intendment
or doubtful interpretation. This power was conferred on
the Commission subject to the plain limitations stated in the
language of the amendment provided no reasonable or satisfactory through route exists.
The Commission has held that it has no power to,order a
through route except where no reasonable or satisfactory one
exists. Cardiff Coal Co. v. C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 13 I. C. C.
460. But in Pacific Coast Lumber Manufacturers' Assn. v.
N. P. Ry. Co., 14 I. C. C. 23, the Commission obiter threw out
the suggestion that there might be a difference between a
reasonable route for freight and one for passengers.
Whether this ought to be the law is not the question. The
case must be determined upon the language used by Congress.
The Union Pacific has not seen fit to build its railroad to

OCTO3ER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

Puget Sound, and by the Commission's order the Northern
Pacific is directed to give up some part of the revenue which
it justly has expected to receive and to put the Union Pacific,
by' furnishing for its benefit the northern company's terminals
at Seattle and Tacoma, in substantially as good a position as
if it had built to Puget Sound. This would seem to be perilously near taking the 'Northern Pacific's property without
due process of law. Wisconsin, Minn. & Pac. R. R. Co. v.
Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Central Stock Yards Co., 212 U. S. 132.
The Commission's order is novel and contrary to usage,
and the testimony shows the position of. the Northern Pacific
to be conformable to that of railways generally.
The suggestion even that the Commission ought to have
the power here exercised in the case of passenger travel, a
power radically different in nature from that which it has
as to freight, could not be supported historically. 40 Cong.
Rec., pt. 3, p 2244; pt. 6, pp. 6678, 6681, 1906.
The Commission says that opening the joint route through
Portland would not hurt the Northern Pacific. The one fact
conclusively established by the testimony of _every witness
examined on the point at the trial, and which the evidence
leaves in no doubt, is that opening the Portland joint route
would greatly increase the travel via the Union Pacific at the
expense of travel via the Northern Pacific.
MR. JUSTicE HOLMEs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to restrain the enforcement of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. 16 1. C. C. Rep. 300.
A preliminary injunction was granted by four circuit judges,
on the ground that the Commission had exceeded its powers,
and the case was brought here by appeal. The order was
made in a proceeding instituted by the Commission upon its
own motion, and required the establishment of through routes
and joint rates, for passengers and their baggage, east and

*INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. NOR. PAC. RY. 543
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

west, from and to points on the Chicago and Northwestern
Railway between Chicago and Council Bluffs, Iowa, inclusive; and from and to points on the Union Pacific Railroad between Colorado common points and Omaha, Nebraska,
and Kansas City, Missouri, inclusive; via Portland, Oregon;
to and from points on the Northern Pacific Railway between
Portland and Seattle. The joint rates are to be the same as
the present rates between the same points via theNorthern
Pacific road and its connections. This order concerns passenger travel in one direction only. It does not affect round
trips, and it does not deal with freight.
The points between Portland and Seattle can be reached
from the places mentioned at the other end of the route, by
way of the Northern Pacific alone from St. Paul, or by way
of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy, to Billings, Montana,
and then by the Northern Pacific for the last thousand miles;
the. Chicago, Burlington and Quincy being jointly owned
and controlled by the Northern Pacific and the Great Northern roads. But 'an average of 8,000 persons a year goes by
way of the Union Pacific to Portland, where, to go further,
passengers have to change to the Northern Pacific line.
Under present arrangements the Union Pacific issues a coupon
with its tickets, entitling the holder to a first-class passage
on from Portland, but he has to exchange the coupon for a
ticket, to recheck his baggage, and to pay the additional
Pullman fare. The effect of the order is to put the 'Union
Pacific on an equal footing with the Northern Pacific in the
use, for through travel, of the road belonging to the latter
between Portland and Seattle. It is said that this road, with
the expensive terminals of the Northern Pacific at. Tacoma
and Seattle, would' not be supported by local business, but
depends on the traffic of the whole Northern Pacific system.
Therefore the Northern Pacific objects to the order and
brings this bill.
The authority of the Commission to establish through
routes and joint rates is conditioned by the proviso that 'no

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

reasonable or satisfactory through route exists.'

216 U. S.

Act of

June 29, 1906, c. 3591, ยง 4, 34 Stat. 584, 589. It is urged that
this condition is addressed only to the opinion of the Commission and cannot be reexamined by the courts as a jurisdictional fact. The difficulty of distinguishing between a rule
of law for the guidance of a court and a limit set to its power
is sometimes considerable. Words that might seem to concern jurisdiftion may be.'read as'simply, imposing a rule of
decision, and often will be read in that way when dealing with
a court of general powers. Fauntleroy v. Lurn, 210 U. S. 230,
235. But even in such a case there may be a difference of
opinion, ibid. 245, and when we are dealing with an administrative order that seriously affects property rights,
and does so by way rather of fiat than of adjudication, there
seems to be no reason for not taking the proviso of the statute
in its natural sense. See Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Illinois Central R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, 470.
We are of opinion then that the Commission had no power
to make the order if a reasonable and satisfactory through
route already existed, and that the existence of such a route
may be inquired into by the courts. How far the courts
should go in that inquiry we need not now decide. No doubt
in complex and delicate cases great-weight at least would be
attached to the judgment of the Commission. - But in the
present instance there is no room for difference as to the facts,
and the majority of the Commission plainly could not and
would not have made the dkclaration in their order that there
was no such through route, but for a view of the law upon
which this court must pass. It is admitted that the Northern
Pacific route is shorter than that of the Union Pacific by way
of Portland and the running time somewhat less, and it is
added by the majority that the 'passenger goes in as good
a car and is provided with as good a berth and as good a
meal.'
There issome suggestion that at times the northern route
may not be as good as the southern, although at other times

KNAPP v. MILWAUKEE TRUST CO.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

it may be better, but the ground of the order avowedly was
that the perional preferences of many travelers is to go by
the Southern way. If they do, it is said, they can select from
a great variety of routes as far as Ogden, Utah, they can visit
cities not reached by the northern lines, they can search
over a wide area for homesteads, they can behold the natural
beauties that may be rivalled but not repeated on the other
roads. It appears to us that these grounds do not justify
the order. The most that can be said of them is that they
are reasons for desiring a second through route, but they
are not reasons warranting the declaration that 'no reasonable or satisfactory through route exists.' Obviously that is
not true, except by an artificial use of words. It cannot be
said that there is no such route, because the public would prefer two. The condition in the statute is not to be trifled away.
Except in case of a need such as the statute implies, the injustice pointed out by the Chairman in his dissent is not permitted by the law.
Decree affirmed.
KNAPP v. MILWAUKEE TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE
OF THE ESTATE OF STANI)ARD TELEPHONE &
ELECTRIC COMPANY, BANKRUPT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 206.

Submitted January 10, 1910.-Decided March 7, 1910.

An intervention to establish his lien by a mortgagee in a petition
by thbe trustee to sell property of the bankrupt is a controversy
arising in a bankruptcy proceeding within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Act and the procedure under ยง 24a is the same as under
Court of Appeals Act of 1891. General Order No. XXXVI adopted
under authority of ยง 24b does not apply in such a case and no special
findings of fact are required.
Under the law of Wisconsin, as construed by the highest court of that
State, a mortgage of personal property is not valid as against creditors unless -the possession be given to, and retained by, the mortVOL. ccxvi-35

