OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MAZURSKY.
SOUTHERN EXPRESS COMPANY v. McTEER.
ATLANTIC

COAST LINE RAILROAD
CHARLES.

COMPANY v.

SAME v. VON LEHE.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
Nos. 58, 59, 65, 61, 62. Argud December. 9, 1909.-Decided
February 21, 1910.
A state statute that requires a carrier to settle, within a specified time,
claims for loss of or damage to freight while in its possession within
that State, is not, in the absence of legislation by Congress on the
subject, an unwarrantable interference with interstate commerce;
and so held that Act No. 50 of South Carolina of February 23, 1903,
to that effect is not unconstitutional under the commerce law as to
goods shipped from without the State but which actually are in the
possession of the carrier withirl the State.
A state statute in aid of the performance of the duty of an interstate carrier which would exist in the absence of the statute, which
does not obstruct the carrier, and which relates to the delivery of
goods actually in the carrier's possession within the State, is not
void as a regulation or obstruction to interstate commerce, in the
absence of congressional legislation on the subject.
78 So. Car. 36, affirmed.

By the act of the General Assembly of the State of South
Carolina, entitled "An Act to Regulate the Manner in which
Common Carriers doing Business in this State shall Adjust
Freight Charges and Claims for Loss of or Damage to Freight,"
approved February 23, 1903 (No. 50, Acts of S. C. 1903, p. 81),
it was enacted:

ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. R. v. MAZURSKY.. 123
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
State of South Carolina, That from and after the passage of
this act, all common carriers doing business in this State shall
settle their freight charges according to the rate stipulated in
the bill of lading: Provided, The rate therein stipulated be in
conformity with the classifications and rates made and filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission, in case of shipments from without this State, and with those of the Railroad Commissioners of this State, in case of shipments wholly
within this State; by which classifications and rates all consignees shall in all cases be entitled to settle freight charges
with such carriers; and it shall be the duty of such common
carrier to inform, any consignee or consignees of the correct
amount due for freight, according to such classifications and
rates; and upon payment or tender of the amount due on any
shipment, or on any part of any shipment, which has arrived
at its destination, according to such classifications or rates,
such common carrier shall deliver the freight in question to the
consignee or consignees, and any failure or refusal to comply
with the provisions hereof shall subject each such carrier so
failing or refusing to a penalty of fifty dollars for each such
failure or refusal, to be recovered by any consignee or consignees aggrieved by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction.
"SEC. 2. That every claim for loss of or damage to property
while in the possession of such common carrier shall be ad&
justed and paid within forty days, in case of shipments wholly
within this State, and within ninety days, in case of shipments
from without this State, after the filing of such claim with the
agent of such carrier at the point of destination of such shipment: Provided, That no such claim shall be filed until after
the arrival of the shipment or of some part thereof at the point
of destination, or until after the lapse of a reasonable time for
the arrival thereof. In every case such common carrier shall
be liable for the amount of such loss or damage, together with
interest thereon from the date of the filing of the claim therefor

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

until the payment thereof. Failure to adjust and pay such
claim within the periods respectively herein prescribed shall
subject each common carrier so failing to a penalty of fifty
dollars for each and every such failure, to be recovered by any
consignee or consignees aggrieved in any court of competent
jurisdiction: Provided, That unless such consignee or consignees recover in such action the full amount claimed, no
penalty shall be recovered, but only the actual amount of the
loss or damage, with interest as aforesaid: Provided, further,
That no common carrier shall be liable under this act for property which never came into its possession, if it complies with
the provisions of section 1710, vol. 1, of the Code of Laws of
South Carolina, 1902."
Section 1710, volume 1, page 661 of the Code of Laws of
South Carolina, 1902, is as follows:
"When under contract for shipment of freight or express
over two or more common carriers, the responsibility of each
or any of them shall cease upon delivery to the connecting
line 'in good order,' and if such freight or express has been lost,
damaged, or destroyed, it shall be the duty of the initial, delivering or terminal road, upon notice of such loss, damage or
destruction being given to it by the shippers, consignee, or
their assigns, to adjust such loss or damage with the owners of
said goods within forty days, and upon failure to discharge
such duty within forty days after such notice, or to trace such
freight or express, and inform the said party so notifying when,
where and by which carrier the said freight or express was lost,
damaged or destroyed, within said forty days, then said carrier
shall be' liable for all such loss, damage or destruction in the
same manner and to the same extent as if such loss, damage or
destruction occurred on its lines: Provided, That if such initial,
terminal or delivering road can prove that, by the exercise of
due diligence, it has been unable to trace the line upon which
such loss, damage or destruction occurred, it shall thereupon
be excused from liability under this section."
The above-entitled cases were brought to test the validity of

ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. R. v. MAZURSKY.
216 U. S.

125

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the provisions of ยง 2 of the act of February 23, 1903, when
applied to claims for loss or damage to interstate freight.
In each case the objection that that section was unconstitutional and invalid was seasonably made. In each case the
objection was overruled and judgment given in favor of the
respective claimants, plaintiffs, for the value of the undelivered freight, with the full penalty of fifty dollars added.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of South Carolina construing and applying the provisions of the state statute appears in the printed transcript of the record in case No. 60,
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company v. Charles, 78 S. C. 36.
In each of the other cases the principles assumed to have been
settled in and by that opinion were made the basis of the judgment of the state Supreme Court.
The cases were submitted to this court December 9, 1909,
as one case, and argued as such on one side only. On the
twentieth of December this court entered an order that notice
of the pendency of these cases should be given to the Attorney
General of South Carolina, and leave was given to him to file a
brief as amicus curi3 on or before the third day of January, if
he should be so advised. The Attorney General filed a brief
accordingly January 3, 1910. Townsend was with him on the
brief.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. P. A. Willcox,
Mr. F. L. Willcpx and Mr. Henry E. Davis were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73, sustained the
statute of South Carolina involved in this case only as to a
shipment wholly intrastate; the act as to interstate shipments,
as in these cases, is unconstitutional under Art. I, ยง 8, cl. 3 of
the Federal Constitution. The power of Congress over such
shipments is complete. Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154
U. S. 204, 209.'
The statute does not fall within the test of a reasonable
exercise of the 'olice power, but constitutes a burden on inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

state commerce. Henderson v. New York, 92 U. S. 259;
Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; McNeill v. Southern R. R.,
202 U. S. 543; Central Stock Yards v. L. & N. Railway, 118
Fed. Rep. 113; Gulf Railway v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Atchison
Railroad v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; see also Central of Georgia
v. Murphey, 196 U. S. 194, wlhich involved a similar statute of
Georgia; Houston & Tex. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Mayes, 201 U. S.
321.
Under this statute, as construed by the Supreme Court of
South Carolina, a common carrier may be penalized for its
failure to adjust a claim for damages growing out of injury to
an interstate shipment if such injury oce'urs on its line, even
though in another State than South Carolina. Seegers v.
Seaboard Air Line R. Co., 73 S. C. 71.
If it be true, as held by the Supreme Court of South Carolina, that the investigation and adjustment of claims is but
an incident of interstate transportation, it follows that the
regulations of such claims adjustment should properly be prCscribed by Congress, and that the States are powerless to provide for such regulation.
Congress has legislated extensivcly in the field of interstate
commerce, its enactments command the. performance of a
great variety of duties as well as prohibit many practices and
customs heretofore indulged in by common carriers in the
prosecution of interstate commerce. The failure of Congress
to legislate with respect to the period within which claims
such as those contemplated by the South Carolina statute
should be adjustc'd, would seem to be tantamount to a declaration that the matter (f such adjustments should be left free
from restrictive regulations.
Payment of a claim connected with the interstate transportation of goods, before it has been developed by proper investigation to be legitimate and in good conscience payable, might
be made to border on the ancient practice of rebating, which
has been severely condemned by Federal laws. See Union
Pac. Co. v. Goodridge, 149 U. S. 680. The Interstate Corn-

ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. R. v. MAZURSKY.
216 U. S.

127

Argument for the Clyde Steamship Company.

merce Commission has recently so ruled. It may result, therefore, that under the South Carolina statute a carrier can and
may be penalized for failing to settle within ninety days a
claim which properly takes a single day longer to investigate.
Under such conditions would not the Interstate Commerce
Commission have authority to proceed against it for derelictions under the provisions of Federal law relating to undue
preferences? It is not possible in such matters, pertaining, as
they do, to interstate commerce, for both the United States
and the States to occupy the same field.
Since the 'decision in Seaboard Air Line Co. v. Seegers, 207
U. S. 73, South Carolina by act of February 26, 1908, 25
Stats. S. C. 1077, has amendedthe statute here under consideration by making it apply to both "property and baggage," and by reducing the periods of time allowed for the
adjustment and payment of claims for loss or damage thereto
from forty to thirty days in cases of shipments wholly within
the State, and from ninety to forty days in cases of shipments
'without the State.
Mr. J. P. Kennedy Bryan submitted a brief on behalf of the
Clyde Steamship Company, Manchester Lines, Limited, and
other ocean carriers:
The statute is unconstitutional as a burden on interstate
commerce.
The power of Congress to regulate commerce among the
States is exclusive. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat'. 419, 446;
Cook v. Pennsylvania,97 U. S. 574. Interstate transportation
is interstate commerce. State Freight Tax Case, 15 Wall. 275;
United States v. Freight Association, 166 U. S. 312.
The clear intention of the Constitution was to confer the
power to regulate interstate commerce exclusively upon Congress, and not to divide the power between the state legislatures and Congress. One of the chief objects of the Constitution was to rid commerce of the conflicting, vexatious and
burdensome restrictions which, under the articles of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for the Clyde Steamship Company.

216 U. S.

federation, had been imposed by the various States. Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 383; State
Freight Tax Case, 15 Wall. 279; Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485;
Wabash R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S.557; Pickard v. Pullman Co., 117 U. S. 34, 46; Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 238;
Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S.640; Almy v. California, 24 How.
169; Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123; American Express Co.'
v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133.
The particular matter sought to be regulated by the South
Carolina statute is in no sense local, but is national in character and importance, and obviously admits of national regulation. From the first, certain state laws relating to pilotage,
quarantine, etc., were sustained notwithstanding an incidental
effect upon interstate and foreign commerce. Hall v. DeCuir,
95 U. S.485, 487; Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299;
Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204, 209. - See
also Wilton v. State, 91 U. S.275; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing
District, 120 U. S.489; County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S.
691; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196;
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; PhiladelphiaSteamship Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.326; Louisville & Nashville Ry. v.
Eubank,. 184 U. S.27; Illinois Central Ry.v. Illinois, 163 U. S.
142; Cleveland &c. Ry.v. Illinois, 177 U. S.514.
If the State ever possessed such power, it was only until
Congress should act, and Congress having assumed it, the
State is no longer entitled to exercise it. Since Congress has
acted and has provided a system of laws regulating railroads
and steamships as instruments of interstate and foreign cominerce in great detail, it has excluded -the power of the States
to act upon the subject. Bowman v. Chicago &c. Ry., 125
U. S.465; Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227.
'The attempted defense of state legislation in violation of the
Federal Constitution, that it is within the police power, is untenable in this ,case. Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465;
License Caes, 5 How. 504, 599; Chy Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S.
275; Robbins v. Shelby County, 120 U.S.489.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE It. I. v. MAZURSKY.
216 U. S.

129

Opinion of the Court.

The South Carolina statute as applied in this case plainly
regulates interstate commerce, and is therefore void. Telegraph Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, 358; Railway Co. v.
Murphey, 196 U. S. 194; Railway Co. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 331;
Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133; Railway Co. v. Wharton,
207 U. S. 328; Express Co. v. Kentucky, 206 U. S. 129.
Mr. J. FraserLyon, Attorney General of the State of South
Carolina, with whom was Mr. W. H. Townsend, submitted, at
the suggestion of the court, a brief in support of the constitutionality of the statute involved as applied in these cases.
There was no appearance or briefs filed for any of the defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLEI,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
In No. 60, Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Charles, which
was assumed by the Supreme Court of South Carolina to settle
all the others and to have been made the basis for the judginent of that court in all the cases, the state court found, as
matter of fact, "the evidence showed that defendant was in
possession of the goods lost," and held as matter of law "that
the statute in question, as it affects carriers doing business in
this State who fail and refuse to adjust and pay the loss of or
damage to goods while in their possession, is no unlawful interference wit interstate commerce, even as applied to an interstate shipment."
It is thus apparent that the statute is construed by the court
as only concerning property lost or damaged while in the possession of a carrier in the State of South Carolina.
It is this conclusion of law that the plaintiff in error asks
this court to review.,
In Venning v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 78 S. C. 42, 55,
it was expressly decided that the act did not apply to claims
voL. ccxvi--9

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

for loss of property which never came into the possession of the
defendant. In that case the state Supreme Court considered
an act of May, 1903, and held it, for the reason given, to be
unconstitutional, not as obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States and the constitution of South Carolina, but as amounting to an illegal attempt
to regulate interstate commerce. And that "on principle, as
well as under the authority of Central R. R. Co. v. Murphey,
196 U. S. 194, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that the
act of May, 1903, here under consideration, is unconstitutional." And further, that it was evident from the complaint
that the action.was intended to rest onthe invalidity under
the act of May, 1903, of such a contract as ยง 1710 contemplates, and that therefore that section could have no application.
The court then considered the act of February 23, 1903,
and said (78 S. C. 55):
"The section of main importance here is the second, which
provides for the recovery for loss of or damage to freight;
and penalties for failure to adjust and pay such loss or damage within.a certain time. The question vital to this case is
whether the statute can be construed to impose upon one
connecting carrier, liability for the default of another, unless
such carrier obtains and gives the information, or uses due
diligence to obtainit, as provided in ยง 1710 of the Civil Code.
We do not think it can be so construed.
"The main enactment as to the recovery of damages and
penalties thus begins in section 2:' That every claim for loss of
or damage to property while in the possession of such common
carriershall be adjusted and paid within forty days,' &c. The
words we have italicized clearly limit the loss and damage
which a carrier is required to adjust and pay for to that which
befalls while the goods are in the possession of such carrier, and
excludes the idea of liability for loss or damage to the goods
while in the possession of another carrier.
" It is true there is a proviso at the end of this section 'that

ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. R. v. MAZURSKY.
216 U. S.

131

Opinion of the Court.

no common carrier shall be liable under this act for property
which never came into its possession, if it complies with the
provisions of sectionl710, vol. I, of the Code of Laws of South
Carolina, 1902.' But as the body of the act does not make the
carrier liable at all 'for goods which never came into its possession;' a proviso which exempts from liability for loss of or
damage to such goods on certain conditions can have no effect.
The act imposes no liability to which the exemption can be
applied.
"The rule is that all parts of a statute, including provisos,
are to be construed together, and effect given if possible to all.
But it is contrary to reason as well as authority to extend by
implication a proviso to cover that which is opposed to the express language of the main enactment. Southgate v. Goldthwaite, 1 Bail. 367; United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141; The
Irresistible, 7 Wheat. 551; 26 Am. & Eng. Ene. 681; Endlich on Statutes, sees. 184, 185. The fact that the statute is
penal adds force to this conclusion. We are of the opinion that
the proviso of section 2 has no effect, and the act only imposes
penalties upon the carrier for failing to adjust claims for loss
occurring while the goods are in its own possession.
"It follows, the plaintiff in this case cannot sustain his recovery on the ground that the defendant was liable under the
act of February, 1903, for goods lost by a connecting carrier,
because it failed to obtain and give information of the kind
required in cases falling under that act, or to use due diligence
to -obtain such information.
"The penalty act of February will apply to the case, if the
finding on the new trial should be, that the loss occurred on the
defendant's road, but not otherwise. It is attacked as unconstitutional under the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution of the 'United States. That question is discussed and
decided against the -defendant's contention in Charles v. A. C.
L. R.R. Co., ante, 3;."
In Charles v. RailroadCompany, 78 S.C. 36, the action was
brought in a magistrate's court to recover the value of four

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

sacks of rice, alleged to have been shipped from New Orleans,
Loisiana, by Martin J. Wynne to the plaintiff at Timinonsville, South Carolina. and to have been lost while in the possession of the defendant carrier, and also to recover fifty dollars'
penalty for failure to adjust and pay the claim within ninety
days, as prescribed by the act of February 23, 1903. The
magistrate gave judgment against defendant for the amount
claimed, and that judgnent, on appeal, was affirmed by the
Circuit Court, and then again by the Supreme Court of the
State in this case. The Supreme Court held that the last proviso of the second section of the, act of February, 1903, had no
application to 'carriers into whose possession the goods had
come, and referred to the opinion of the court in Seegers v.
Railway, 73 S.C. 71, 73, where it was said: "The duty to make
prompt settlement for loss or damage to goods is but an incident of the duty to transport and deliver safely and with reasonable diligence. The statute in question was designed to
effectuate an important public purpose, viz., to compel the
common carrier to perform with reasonable diligence the duty
which peculiarly apl)ertains to his business as a carrier of
freight. The penalty is but a means to that end." And see
same case, 207 U. S. 73.
The Supreme Court, after making that quotation, thus proceeded (78 S.C. 41):
"While it is not easy to define the exact limits of the operation of state aws as affecting interstate commerce, we have no
hesitation in saying that the statute in question, as it affects
carriers doing business in this State, who fail or refuse to adjust and pay the loss of or damage to goods while in their pos.session, is no unlawful interference with interstate commerce,
even as applied to an interstate shipment. The penalty imposed is for a delict of duty appertaining to the business of a'
common carrier, and in so far as it may affect interstate commerce, it is an aid thereto by its tendency to promote safe and
prompt. delivery of goods, or its legal equivalent-prompt
settlement of proper claim for damages. No penalty can at-

ALTANTIC COAST LINE R. R. v. MAZURSKY.
216 U. S.

133

Opinion of the Court.

tach except upon the establishment in a court of a default of
duty imposed by statute. The statute does not attempt to
regulate interstate commerce and imposes no tax or burden
thereon. It is supported by the general principle declared in
Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 89, 104, and enforced in Smith v.
Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, and Nashville &c. R. R. v. Alabama,
128 U. S.96, that state legislation 'r'elating to the rights, duties
and liabilities of citizens, and only indirectly and remotely
affecting the operations of commerce is of obligatory force
upon citizens within the territorial jurisdiction, whether on
land or water, or engaged in commerce, foreign or interstate,
or in any other pursuit."'
In the case of Western Union Telegraph Co. v. James, 162
U. S. 650, a statute of Georgia requiring telegraph companies
to transmit and deliver dispatches with impartiality, good
faith and diligence, under penalty of $100 in each case, in the
absence of legislation by Congress on the subject, was held not
to be an unwarrantable interference with interstate commerce
as to messages without the State, and Mr. Justice Peckham,
delivering the opinion of the.court, said, p. 660:
"The statute in question is of a nature that is in aid of the
performance of a duty of the company that would exist in the
absence of any such statute, and it is in nowise obstructive of
its duty as a telegraph company. It imposes a penalty for the
purpose of enforcing this general duty of the company. The
direction that the delivery of the message shall be made with
impartiality and in good faith and with due diligence is not an'.
addition to the duty which it would owe in the absence of such
a statute. Can it be said that the imposition of a penalty for
the violation of a duty which the company owed by the general
law of the land is a regulation of or an obstruction to interstate
commerce within the meaning of that clause of the Federal
Constitution under discussion? We think not."
And see Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169
U. S. 133, 137; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. 4.
477, 491; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Larabee Flour Mills Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

211 U. S. 612, 624. The present, cases fall within the rules
there laid down, and Centralof Georgia Ry. Co. v. Murphey, 196
U. S. 194; Houston & Texas: Central R. R. Co. v. Mayes, 201
U. S. 321,; and McNeill v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543, cited
to the contrary, are really not in conflict thcre-with.
Judgments affirmed.

ZARTMAN, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. FIRST
NATIONAL BANK OF, WATERLOO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No..74.

Argued January 12, 1910.-Decided February 21., 1910.

The jurisdiction which equity has to -decree correction of'errors in
written contracts caused -b mutual mistake is not suspended by
the bankruptcy law; and the trustee takes property as the debtorhad it at the time of the petition subject to all valid claims, liens
and equities, including the power of a court of equity to correct
manifest error by mutual mistake in an agreement made prior to
the petition.
Where a contract is reformed to correct a mutual mistake and make
it conform to the intent of the parties a new lien is not created,
but the original lien is adjudicated and determined.
189 N. Y. 533, affirmed.,

THIS was a suit brought in the Supreme Court of the State
of New York by the First National Bank of Waterloo against
Francis Bacon and George E. Zartman, as Bacon's trustee
in bankruptcy,.to procure the reformation of a written contract
made by plaintiff and defendant Bacon February 15, 1902..
Before the contract was made, Bacon was president of the
First National Bank. of Waterloo, New York, and also of the
Waterloo Wagon Company. He was active ifi the, office of
the Wagon. Company, while the business of the bank was
looked after by its cashier BeckerK The Waterloo Bank had
extended, credit to the Wagon Company' and to Bacon- individually, discounting paper and taking notes.
The Exchange National Bank of Seneca Falls, New York,

