OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

We need not go farther. It is entirely clear that the judgment against the defendait bank-which came into the possession of the property, and was subject to the liabilities of the
Central National Bank-was consistent with sound legal
principles and was intrinsically right, even if the guaranty in
question was beyond the .power of the guaranteeing bank,
under the national banking statutes. Whatever may be said
as to the validity of the written guaranty, now alleged to be
illegal, the judgment can be supported as based wholly on
the implied contract, which made it the duty of the Central
National Bank, under the facts disclosed, to account to the
Cooper Exchange Bank for the money obtained from the
latter in execution of the agreement made by the former
with the borrower.
The judgment must be affirmed.
It is .so ordered.

GREAT

NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE
OF MINNESOTA.

ERROR TO THE SUPRENTE COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.

No. 359.

Argued November 5, 8, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

A state legislature, unless restrained by the constitution of the State,
may contract to limit the State's power of taxation ; but,' as taxation
is essential to the existence and operation of government, an exemption therefrom will not be presumed from doubtful language, but
must be expressed beyond reasonable doubt.
When a State becomes'the owner by l)urchase of the entire property

and franchises of a corporation created by itself, it can only convey
the same pursuant to the provisions of the then existing constitution
and it cannot reinvest either a purchaser or the original owner with
any exemption from taxation prohibited by the existing constitution.
.-:tts, 268; Perkins v. Boothby, 7L Maine, 94, 97; Bank of Lakin v.
National Bank, 57 Kansas, 183.

GREAT NORTIEIRN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 207
216 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Where the constitution of the State requires equal and uniform taxation of all real and personal property in the State upon a cash basis
and specifics the property that can be exempted, the legislature
cannot thereafter agree that the pavment of a given per cent. of the
earnings of a corporation from property of a class not included among
the properties that can be excmpted shall be in lieu of all other taxation; and such a contract, if attempted to be made, would not be
protected by the impairment of obligation clause of the Constitution
of the United States.
There is a difference between a contract for a commuted system of
taxation on earnings of a railroad corporation and a specific exemnption from taxation of lands granted to tlk corporation, for a defined l)eriod; the former is personal and not assignable while the
latter is attached to an(l follows the land.

In this case this court accepts the view of the state court as to the
scope of its own decisions.
106 Minnesota, 303, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William R. Begg for plaintiff in error:
The decision of the Supreme Court of, Minnesota in this
cause is not controlling upon the questions presented by the
assignments of error.
Where the claim is that a contract is impaired by a state
law this court determines for itself the existence and sCOl) of
the contract and whether it is impaired by the law as construed by the highest court of the State. Bank v. Skelly,.
Black, 436, 443; Insurance Co. v. Debolt, 16 How. 415, 451;
Wright v. Nagle, 101 U. S. 791, 793; B.vrgess v. Seligyman, 107
U. S. 20, 33; Railroad Co. v. Palenes, 109 U. S. 2.44, 256: Gas
Co. v. Gas Light Co., 115 U. S. 683, 692; RailroadCo. v. Dennis,.
116 U. S. 665, 667; RailroadCo. v. Alsbrook., 146 U. S. 279, 293:
Bryan v. Board, 151 U. S. 639, 650; RailroadCo. v. Tennessee,
153 U. S. 486, 492; Dovylas v. Kentvck-y, 168 U. S. 488, 502:
Stearns v. Minnesota, 179 U. S 223, 233; Muhlker v. Railway
Co., 197 U. S. 544, 570; Powers v. Railway Co., 201 U. S. 543,
546.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

But the law as it has been declared by the state court at the
(late when the contract was made, enters into and becomes a
part of the contract.

Bronson v. Kinzie, 1. How. 311, 315;

McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How. 608, 612; Gelpcke v. Dubuque,
1 Wall.175, 177; Walker v. Whitehead, 16 Wall. 314, 317;
Edwards v. Kearzey, 9(i U. S. 595, 601; Douglas v. Pike County,
101 U. S. 677; Railroad Co. v. Hamblen County, 102 U. S. 273,
277; Wilson v. Gaines, 103 U. S. 417, 422; Taylor v. Ypsilanti,
105 U. S. 60, 71; Green County v. Conness, 109 U. S. 104, 105;
Bank v, FranklinCounty, 128 U. S. 526; Los Angeles v. Water
Co., 177 U. S. 558; Bradley v. Lightcap, 195 U. S. 1, 20.
The settled rules of property existing at the time a contract
is made are just as much a part of that contract as are the
covenants of the )aIies; and the law which has thus entered
into the contract cannot bC abrogated or changed by subsequent decisions so as to save legislation enacted after the date
of the contract. Cases supra and Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S.
371, 380.
Where the Supreme Court of a State has sustained the validity of a statute from which a contract arises, this court accepts
that decision. Powers v. Railway Co., 201 U. S. 543, 556.
The act of May 22, 1857, and the acceptance thereof by the
Minnesota Company creatcl a valid and irrepealable contract
relating to the taxation of the railroads authorized by the act.
Home v. Rouse, 8 Wall. 430, 438; RailroadCo. v. Reid, 13 Wall.
264; Humphrey v. Pegues, 16 Wall. 244, 249; Delaware Railroad Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206, 225; RailroadCo. v. McGuire, 20
Wall. 36, 43; Railroad Co. v. Decatur, 147 U. S. 190, 201; Railroad Co. v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486; Powers v. Railway Co.,
201 U. S. 543; First Div. Co. v. Parcher, 14 Minnesota, 297;
Railway Co. v. Pfaender, 23 Minnesota, 217, 223; St. Paul
v. St. Paul & S. C. R. Co., 23 Minnesota, 469, 474; Stevens
County v. Manitoba Co., 36 Mipnesota, .467, 471; State v.
Stear .s, 72 Minnesota, 200, 223; Traverse County v. Manitoba
Co., 73 Minnesota, 417, 426.
There were no constitutirnal restrictions upon the power

GREAT NORTHERN
216 U. S..

IAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 209

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of the Territory to create corporations by special act and to
make valid contracts with respect to taxation. Cases supra,
and People v. Marshall, 6 Illinois, 672.
The act in question was passed by the legislative assembly
of the Territory and accepted by the Minnesota Company prior
to the admission of the State into the Union.
The benefit to accrue to the public from the enterprise contemplated by the charter is a sufficient consideration for the
contract. Cases supra, and Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 Wall. 454,
459; RailroadCo. v. Decatur, 147 U. S' 190, 201.
The contract created by the act of May 22, 1857, is an entire
and inseparable contract covering the taxation of both the
railroads ant the granted lands. N~w Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S.
104, 116; Stevens County v. Manitoba Co., 36 Minnesota, 467;
Traverse County v. Manitoba Co., 73 Minnesota, 417, 423; Ch.

253, Laws, 1.901; Railway Co. v. Pfaender, 23 Minnesota, 217;
State v. Manitoba Co., 30 Minnesota, 311; State v. Northern
Pac. Ry. Co., 32 Minnesota, 294; State v. Northern Pac. Ry.
Co., 36 Minnesota, 207; State v. Luther, 56 Minnesota, 156;
Todd County v. Manitoba Co., 38 Minnesota, 534.
The State cannot take the benefits of the contract without
making compensation therefor. Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How.
507, 534; Gas Light Co. v. Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; Stearns v.
Minnesota, 179 U. S. 256, distinguished.
The legislature of the State had power under the constitution to make a valid and irrepealable contract modifying the
provisions as to taxation ef the act of May 22, 1857. Cases
supra.
The vicissitudes through which these four original landgrant companies passed are stated in Huff v. Winona & St.
Peter Co., 11 Minnesota, 181; Fitz v. Minnesota Central Co.,
11 Minnesota, 414; First Div. Co. v. Parcher, 14 Minnesota,
297; State v. Winona & St. Peter Co., 21 Minnesota, 315; St.
Paul v. St. Paul & Sioux City Co., 23 Minnesota, 469, 472.
It was within the )ower of the State, acting as trustee of the

land-grant, to make such contract with reference to the:taxVOL. CCXV-1

4

OGT1O3I3R, TIIM, 1909.
Argmnent for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

atioi of the roads for whose benefit the grant was made as in its
ol)1101)
vouihl best accom)li.ih the objects of the trust.
The coi i'tract does i ,L cirate a exemption from taxation
but proivides a coriottuted or siusi ituted form of taxation. It
is a tax agaitist, )rol)erty, not agaiiist the persoii. Stearns v.
Minnzesolh, 179 U. S. 223; Y. Poid v. M1. Paul S. C. R. Co., 23
Minnesota, 469," 471; State v. Nor. Pac. Co., 32 Minnesota, 294,
295; Ilennepin County v. Manitoba Co., 33 Minnesota, 534,
535: County of Raiiiey .v. Railway Co., 33 Minnesota, 537;
Counlty oj' Todd v. Malnitoba Co., 38 Mimnnsota, 163; St. Pail
v. Manitoba Co., 39 Mimisota, 1.12, 113; State v. Luther, 56
Mimisota, 156, 160: Traucr.e Contly v. Manitoba Co., 73
Mimutsota, 417, 425; Mtle v. Koerner, 8 5 Milesota, 149, 150;
State v. Tclephtone Co., 120 N. \V. Rep. 534, 538.
The comtrat was not plrsonal to th( MiAitesota Comapany,
but, with the railhoad s ai i the (ither fraelhisis, lowers, privileges and ininunitics grantei b1y the eharter, \\:as tramisferable
to the successors of that cOm)any. Cases supra, and Fir.4
Div. Co. v. Parcher, 14 Minncsota, 297; County ( " Nobles v.
Railroad Co., 26 Minnesota, 294, 298; County of Raniasey v.
Raihroy Co., 33 Minnesota, 537 Board v. Railroad Co., 49
N. J. Law, 193; S. C., 7 Atl. Rep. 826, 838.
The State of Mimtnsota, the St. Paul Company, the First
Division Company and the Manitoba Collopany successively
acqtuIred hy transfer all the franehises toid immunities, ineludinig the franchise to be a corporation, granted to the
Minnesola (ompia ny by the act of May 22, 1857.
the contract as to taxatioi is a ritght which passed by transfer immh'r the dcshc(ril)tion " property, frmclisis, rights and
ipriviiegesp.'
Cases svpra, aid Railrond ('o. v. lliylo:not, ()
How. :176, 394; To)Ilinson v. Uravchi, 15 Wall. -160: llpiiibltcy
v. I'lei s, 1N Wall. 2-1-I, 247; The Deli, ire Ilailrood Tax (',,c,
1s WaIl. 206: hRailroad ("'o. v. (eorgio, 92 1. S. GG65: Iailroad
Co. v. Virolivt l. 9I ' . S. 718; Grean Ca(lmly v. ('mt uess, 109
U. S. 101: Railroad (. v. II'rifl/, 116 U. S. 2:31; '1''nm',,see v.
Whijio.,'/i, 117 1!. S. :19. 1-16 (iGi'i,v. Wright, 117 U. S. (618.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNIISOTA. 211
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Neither the transferability of the contract as to taxation
nor the capacity of the St. Paul Company, the First Division
Company, the Manitoba Company and the plaintiff in error to
acquire the contract has been destroyed by the constitution
of the State of Minnesota.
Such was the settled rule of law in Minnesota until the decision in the present case. The rule was an established rule of
property.
A valid contract cannot be affected any more by constitutional amendment than by act of legislature. Gunn v. Barry,
15 Wall. 610, 623; State v. Young, 29 Minnesota; 474, 550;
Dartmouth College Case, 4 Wheat. 518, 652; Planter's Bank v.
Sharp, 6 How. 301, 321; Walker v. Whitehead, 16 Wall. 314;
Railway Co. v. Texas, 170 U. S. 243, 256.
Constitutional provisions do not enter into the merger or
prevent the acquisition by the absorbing company' of the franchises and immunities of the merged companies. State v. Railroad Co., 45 Maryland, 361; Tondinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460;
Charleston v. Branch, 15 Wall. 470; Branch v. Charleston, 92
U. S. 677; RailroadCo. v. Georgia,98 U. S. 359; RailroadCo. v.
Maine, 96 U. S. 499; Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319; Railroad
Co. v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244; see also Railroad Co. v. Conmissioners, 112 U. S. 609; Railroad Co. v. Berry, 113 U. S. 465;
RailroadCo. v. Miller, 114 U. S. 176; Railroad Co. v. Mis.Nouri,
152 U. S. 301 ; Bank v. Tennessee, 16 1 U. S. 186; RailroadCo.
v. Adams, 180 U. S. 1; Railroad Co. v. Henes, 183 U. S. 66;
RailroadCo. v. Marylantl, 187 U. S. 258. Traction,Co. v. Algelt,
200 U. S. 304; 'ailway Co. v. Rochester, 205 U. S. 236; Railroad
Co. v. Vicksburg, 209 U. S. 358.
Mr. George T. Simpson, Attorney General of the State of
Minnesota, and Mr. George W. Peterson, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the courf,.

This suit by thib State of Minnesota against the Great North-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

ern Railway Company, a corporation organized and existing
under the laws of that State, has for its object to recover the
balance alleged to be due the State, on account of taxes from
the railway coml)any, under a statute known as Chapter 253
of the Geincral Laws of Minnesota of 1903.
The controlling question in the.case relates to the constitutionality of certain sections of that statute, as follows:
"§ 1. Every railroad company owning or operating any line of
railway situated-within or partly within this State shall, during
the year 1905, and annually thereafter, pay into the treasury
of this State in lieu of all taxes and assessments upon all property within this State owned and operated for railway purposes
by such company, including the 'equipment, appurtenances,
appendages and franchises thereof, a sum of money equal to
four per cent of the gross earnings derived from the operation
of such line of railway within this State; and the annual payment of such sum shall be in full and in lieu of all other taxes and
assessments upon the property and franchises so taxed. The
lands acquired by public grants shall be and remain exempt
from taxation until sold or contracted to be sold or conveyed,
as provided in the respective'acts whereby such grants were
made or recognized. § 2. The term 'gross earnings derived
from the operation of such line of railway within this State'
as used in section one of this act is hereby declared and shall
be construed to mean all earnings on business beginning and
ending within the State and a proportion. based upon the proportion of the mileage within the State to the entire mileage
over which such busines is done of earnings i all interstate
business passing through, into or out of the State." Gen.
Laws, Minn., 1903, c. 253, p. 375.
The effect of the statute, Minnesota asserts, was to place the
Great Northern Railway Company, as to rates, on the same
basis of taxation as other railroads in the State. But, the
company contended in the courts below, and contends here,
that the requirement to pay for 1905 and annually thereafter
fir per cent of the gross earnings derived from the operation

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 213
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of its railroad within the State was in violation of a statute
enacted May 22d, 1857, by the Territory of Minnesota, incorporating the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company, and
which fixed three.per centum of the gross earnings of that company's railroad property as a tax in lieu of all taxes and assessments whatever. Sess. Laws, Minn., 1857, Extra Sess., §§ 1,
4,18. The provisions in the latter statute, it is alleged, constituted a contract with that company, (the remote predecessor
of the defendant company), which was protected, in favor of
the latter, by the contract clause of the Constitution of the
United States, as well as by the clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment forbidding the deprivation of property without
due process of law. All this was disputed by the State.
The gross earnings of the company during 1905 were, it is
conceded, $18,540,396.27, four per cent of which, $74-1,615.85,
the State demanded under the act of 1903. The company paid
$620,878.47 on account of gross earnings for 1905, and refused
to pay more. For the difference, $120,737.38, with interest,
the State claimed judgment. The railway company admitted
its liability to pay four per cent on the gross earnings derived from certain lines operated by it in 1905, but denied
liability in excess of three per cent on the gross earnings derived, during the same period, from certain other lines. It insisted that the sum paid by it before being sued herein was
all that could be legally demanded by the State for the year
1905.
The trial court made certain findings of fact and announced
certain conclusions of law that were not satisfactory to either
party. But it was stipulated that, on the bagis of those findings and conclusions, the State would be entitled to a judgment
for $32,285.94, with interest from July 11th, 1898, and costs;
and for that sum judgment was given by the trial court egainst
the railway company. Each party prosecuted an appeal to the
Supreme Court of Minnesota. That court sustained the State's
appeal and reversed the judgment with directions to enter
judgment in favor of the State for the entire amount it. had

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. 4.

sued for-$120,737.88, with interest. 106 Minnesota, 303.
Hence this writ of error by the railway company.
It is necessary to a clear understanding of the question of
contract, as well as the objections raised against the act of
U90;3, that we state ccrtaini facts in the history of the taxation
of railroad property in Minnesota.
By an act approved February 26th, 1857, Congress authorized the people of the Territory of Minnesota to form a
constitution preparatory to its adnission into the Union
as a State on an equal footing with the original States. 11
Stat. 166, c. 60. And by an act passed March 3(1, 1857, it
ina(le a grant of lands to the'Territory to aid in the construction of railroads between certain points with branches between certain other points, and provided that. the lands so
granted should be subject to the future disposal by the Legislature of the Territory or future State for the purposes expressed by Congress, and no other. 11 Stat. 195, 196, e.99,

§§1, 3.
In execution of the trust created by that act of Congress,
the Legislative Assembly of the Territory, by the above act
of May 22d, 1857, incorporated the Minnesota and Pacific
Railroad Ccinipany, investing it with all the powers, privileges,
franehises "ind immunities incident to a corporation, and
empowering it to survey,' locate, construct, maintain and
operate a railroad with one or more tracks or lines between
certain named places; to which end it was authorized to
enter upon and appropriate lands belonging to the Territory
or future State, not exceeding a prescribed, width throughout
the entire length of its railroad. Sess. Laws Minn., 1857,
Extra Sess., p. 1, §§ 1, 4, 18.
The 18th section of the latter act constitutes an important
feature in this case. So much of that section as is material
in (etermining this case is as follows: "In consideration of the
grants, privileges and franchises herein conferred on the said
Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company, the said company
shall and will, on or before the first day of March in each year.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 215
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pay into the treasury of the Territory or future State, three
per centum of the gross earnings of the said railroad, for the
year ending on the last day of the preceding December, in
.
and for
lieu of all taxes and assessment whatever, .
securing to the Territory or State the payment of the aforesaid
per centum it is hereby declared that the State shall have a
lien upon the railroads of the, said company, and upon all
otlger property; estate and effects of the said company, whether
real, personal or mixed, and the lien hereby secured shall
take and have precedence of all demands, decrees and judgments against the said company. The first payment shall be
made on the first day of March next after fifty miles of said
railroad shall be completed, and such payment shall be in
lieu of all taxes and in full of all claims of the Territory or
State for the grant hereby made, and.in consideration of such
annual payments the said company shall be forever exempt
from all assessments and taxes whatever by the Territory or
State which shall succeed the Territory, or by any county,
city, town, village or other municipal authority in the Territory or State upon all stock in the said 'Minnesota and Pacific
Railroad Company,' whether belonging 'to said company or
to individuals, and upon all its franchises or estate, real,
personal, or mixed, held by 'said company, and said land
granted by said act of Congress hereby authorized to be conveyed to the said Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company
shall be exempt from all taxation till sold and conveyed by said
company." This act, it must be remembered, was passed
before Minnesota became a State.
By an act approved May l1th, 1858, Minnesota was admitted into the Union as a State, with the constitution it
had adopted by popular vote on the thirteenth of October
previous, 11 Stat. 285, c. 31; which constitution provided that
all taxes to be raised in the State "shall be as nearly equal as
may be, and all property on which taxes are to be levied shall
have a cash valuation and be equalized and uniform throughout
the State." Another section in the same article required that

OCTOBER TERAM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

"laws shall be passed taxing all moneys, credits, investments
in bonds, stock, joint stock companies or otherwise, and also
all real and personal property, according to its true value in
money;" also, that certain specified kinds of property, devoted
to charitable and public uses, "shall, by general laws, be exempt from taxation." Art. 9, §§1,. 3. But railroad property
was not included in such exemptions; therefore, after the state
constitution went into operation, railroad property-if no inviolable contract controlled the matter-was taxable in Minnesota only on the basis fixed in that instrument.
On the twenty-third of June, 1860, there was a foreclosure
of two mortgages, (the principal one having been executed
July 31st, 1858, and a supplementary one executed November 27th, 1856), which the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad
Company, under the authority of an act of the legislature,
had given to secure moneys borrowed by it as well as certain
bonds it had issued. Those mortgages covered the company's
line and all its property and franchises. Their validity is not
questioned in this case. The State, being the highest and
best bidder at the foreclosure sale, became the purchaser on
the twenty-third of June, 1860, and by that purchase, the
Supreme Court of Minnesota has said, "the State became
vested with all the railroad properties, and, no redemption
being made, the company became wholly divested of its
rights."
Subsequently, on March 8th, 1861, the Legislature passed
an act entitled "An act to facilitate the construction of the
Minnesota and Pacific Railroad," which provided "that the
road, lands, property, rights, franchises, privileges and immunities belonging or pertaining to the Minnesota and Pacific
Railroad Company, prior to the. sale and purchase thereof
*by the Governor on the 23d day of June, 1860, on behalf
of the State, and now claimed, or held by the State, and all
bonds and securities of the said company held by the State,
shall be and are hereby released, discharged and restored to
the said company free of all liens or claims thereon held by or

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 217
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in behalf of the State." Section 1. The act named certain
conditions to be performed by the company in respect of the
proposed railroad, and if they were not performed by the time
specified, then all the rights and benefits conferred upon said
company "shall be forfeited to the State absolutely without
any further act or ceremony whatever." Laws, Minn., 1861,
c. 5, p. 235. The company having failed wholly to comply with
the conditions prescribed, all the rights, privileges, franchises
and immunities granted to it by the last named act were
resumed by and reinvested in the State.
Thereafter, by an act of March 10th, 1862, the Legislature,
with'a view of facilitating the construction of the Minnesota
and Pacific Railroad and of amending and continuing the
act of incorporation relating thereto, granted to certain
named parties under the corporate name of the St. Paul and
Pacific Railroad Company "all the rights, privileges, property,
franchises, property and interests" granted by the Territory
of Minnesota to-the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company
by the above act of May 22d, 1857, "with all the immunities,
rights, property, benefits and privileges which the said Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company had, or might, or could
have by reason of the passage of said act, free and clear of all
liens thereon, and free from all liens and claims of the State
of Minnesota against the same, except such as are retained by
the provisions of this act." Special Laws, Minn., 1862, c. 20.
We take from the opinion of the Supreme Court of the State
this additional statement of facts, 106 Minnesota, 303, 319:
"By Chapter 3, -p. 174, Sp. Laws 1864, the St. Paul and Pacific
Company was authorized to issue one or more classes of preferred stock and to enter into agreements or contracts with
the holders thereof for the administration of the portion of
the road to which the stock might pertain, and for the independent organization by such holders to enable them separately or in conjunction with the general directors of the road
to exercise supervision and control of their separate portion of
the road. Unde.r this act preferred stock was duly issued and

(W')IM,11 NT
- 1.

\ 1, 1909.

Opinion of the Court.

21W U. S.

the holders thereof, acting under the statute just referred to,
organized and incorporated the First Division of the St. Paul
and Pacific Railroad Corpany, which company, through its
officers, thereafter co61jerate(d with the St. Paul and Pacific
Company in the construction of the road. The act incorporating the latter nalned company contained no express reference to the rate or system of taxation to be imposed upon the
(:company, but it is claime( that all the provisions on this
subject conltailIred in the old Minnesota and Pacific Company's
choter lassed by the ternis of the act incorporating it and
w*re included w it hi the (h signation of 'rights, )rivi]eges, and
inninnuities.' However, by Chapter 6i, p. 40, Sp. Laws 1865,
an act to facilitate the (ol)il(tioln of the St. Paul and Pacific
Railroad and branches, [March 2d, 18651, the Legislature
iniposod a diffiret rate of taxation than that contained in
the Minnesota and Pacific Company's charter, in this, that
by this acti the company was required to pay during the first
throo years, after thirty miles of its road had been completed,
oui l)er cent of its gross e'arnings, two per cent during the
SUi:ce(ling seven years, and thereafter three per cent. The
act also contained a provision that th.( lands of the conpany
sh, ,uld be subject to taxation as soon as sol(, leased, or contracted to be sold or leased. The St. Paul and Pacific Company
forinally accepted this act, an(I the Fii'st Division Company
thcreafter corrplied with its terms andi provisions by paying
the rate of taxation thereby imposed. The organization of
the First Division Company was legalized and confirmed by
Chap. 1, p. 11, Sp. Laws 1866.
"Between 1862 and 1871, both these companies separately
executed trust deeds and mortgages covering the main line of
the road and all its branches according to the ownership of the
sane by the Separate companies, thereby conveying to the
mortgagees or trustees all property, rights, privileges, franrises, and immunities held, owned, or possessed by either corp any. Both companies made defailt in the payment of the indebtedness secured by these instruments arid they were duly

G{EAT NO)RTHIHtN RAIi\.AV r. M [NM !,.STA. 219
216 U. S.

Opinion of Ihe (Court.

foreclosed in the manner prescri bed by law, John S. Barnes, for
himself and associates, being the prchaser at the sale inade inder the foreclosure as to the branch line. Thereafter Barnes
and his associates incorporated under the laws of the State the
St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Railroad (ompany, and
to this company they conveyed all rights acquired under the
foreclosure stated. Thereafter the mortgage on the main
line was foreclosed and the Manitoba Company became the
purchaser. By these foreclosures the Manitoba Coimpany
became the sole owner of all rights, privileges, and property
of the two other companies. The Manitoba ('ompany leased
its line, together with all property rights, franchises, privileges,
and immunities to the defendant Great Northern Company,
incorporated under the laws of the State for the term of 999
years. The ol Pacific and the First Division Companies
paid-taxes to the State upon the basis of the act of 18(65,
already referred to, viz., one per cent for the first three years
after the completion of thirty miles of road, two per cent for
the succe(ding seven years, and thereafter, and until their

rights passed from them by the foreclsmre proceedings, jus
referred to, at the rate of three per cent, of their gross earnings.
The Manitoba (mpany paid 1his rate at all times during its
ownership and operation of the road."
In 1871 the provisions of the state constitut ion inrelation
to the taxation of railroad property were extended by an

amendment. That amendireint was as follows: "Art. 4,
see. 32 (a). Any law providing for the repeal or amendment
of any law or laws heretofore or hereafter enacted, which
provides that any railroad company now existing in this
State, or operating its roads therein, or which may be hereafter
organized, shall, in lieu of all other taxes and assessmeits
upon their real estate, roads, rolling stock, and other personal
property, at and (luring the time and periods therein specified,
pay into the treasury of this State a certain percentage therein
mentioned of the gross earnings of such railroad companies
now existing or hereafter organiized, shall,, before the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

shall take effect or be in force, be submitted to a vote of the
people of this State, and be adopted and ratified by a majority
of the electors of the State voting at the election at which
the same shall be submitted to them." This amendment
was submitted to popular vote and approved by the electors.
It thereby became, to all intents and purposes, a part of the
constitution. Const. Minn., Art. 4,, § 32a.
After the adoption of that amendment the Legislature
passed the above act of 1903, increasing the tax to be paid
for 1905 and annually thereafter on the gross earnings of railroads operated within the State to four per cent. That act
was submitted to a vote of the electors and was sustained by
the requisite majority.
As already stated, the, railway 'company insists that the
territorial act of May 22d, 1857, incorporating the Minnesota
and Pacific Railroad Company, constituted a valid and irrepealalle contract with that company of which its successors
in interest could' avail themselves and that its obligation
could not be subsequently impaired by any legislative enactment, or.by any provision of the state constitution adopted
in 1858 after the act of 1857 was passed or as amended in 1871.
We have seen that the (old) Minnesota and Pacific Railroad
Company was required, by the territorial act of May 22d,
1857, "in consideration of the grants, privileges and franchises" conferred upon it, to pay annually into the treasury
of the Territory or future State three per centum of its gross
earnings for the preceding year, in lieu of all taxes and assessments whatever, and that, "in consideration of such annual
payments," the company should be forever exempt from all
assessments and taxes whatever, territorial, state or municipal, upon all its stock, by whomsoever held, and upon all
its franchises or estate, real, personal or mixed, and that the
land granted by Congress and conveyed to the company under the authority of the State should be exempt from all taxation until sold and conveyed by it.
The Supreme Court -of the State expressed doubt whether

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 221
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the act of 1857 was so worded as to constitute, in itself, a
contract that would prevent the Territory Or the State from
adopting and enforcing any different rule of taxation from that
prescribed by that act. We share this doubt of the state
court, that act being alone considered, and we are somewhat
justified in so doing by the fact that the state Legislature,
by 'the act of 18(65, changed the rate of taxation as to this
property, then operated by the St. Paul and Pacific Company
(a predecessor of the plaintiff), which had undertaken to
complete the contcml)Iated railroad and branches. The act
of 1865 seems to have been accepted and complied with by the
successors in interest of the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad
Company, and amounted, as the court below well said, to a
practical construction by the parties of the alleged contract
of exemption to be found in the territorial act of 1857. But
we forbear any direct decision of this question; for there are
other grounds upon which our judgment will be based.
The state court recognized the doctrine as-firmly established
that a legislature, unless restrained by state constitutional
provisions, may contract to limit its power of taxation. But
it held that, as taxation was essential to the existence and
operations of government, an exemption from taxes cannot
be presumed from doubtful language but must be expressed
in words so clear and explicit as to leave no reasonable doubt
that the exemption was intended to be given. And such is
the settled rule announced by this court in cases familiar to
counsel and too numerous to be cited. Passing without direct
decision the quetion whether the act of 1857 constituted, in
itself, an irrepealable contract as between the Territory and
the (old) Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company, the
Supreme Court of Minnesota considered the question whether
the contract was personal to that particular company, or "did
it become attached as an appurtenant to the charter, rights,
franchises, and privileges of the company and pass down the
line to the defendant." The first clause of that question was
answered by the court in the affirmative: the latter in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

215 U. S.

negative-the court citing in support of its conclusions the
following cases: Morgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217; Gulf &c.
Ry. Co. v. Miller, 114 U. S. 176; Covington Turnpike Co. v.
,Sanford,164 U. S. 578; City of Rochester v. Railway Co., 182
N. Y. 99; Memphis Ry. Co. v. Com'rs, 112 U. S. 609. We need
not extend the discussion upon that point.
But the state court said, and correctly, that there was
another and stronger reason why it should be adjudged that
an irrevocable contract did not and could not pass to the
companies that claimed to have succeeded to the rights of
the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company. That reason
is suggested by the facts and circumstances now to be stated
by us.
The rights, franchises, privileges or immunities of every
kind covered by the above territorial act of 1857 were wholly
lost to thc old Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company when
the State, by its purchase of June 23d, 1860, at the foreclosure
sale, became completely reinvested with them. Those rights,
franchises, privileges and immunities were swept away from
that compa;iy by that sale. Now when that purchase was
made the Territory had become a State, with a constitution
expressly requiring the equal and uniform taxation of all
real and personal property in the State upon a cash basis and
authorized the exemption from taxation of certain specified
kinds of property, devoted to public and charitable uses; but,
as we*have seen, railroad property was not included among the
properties hat could be so exempted. It is, therefore, to be
taken that the Consititution of the State after it went into
operation in 1858, required all railroads to be taxed by an
equal and ufiiforin rule and on a cash basis. The State having,
by its purchase, become reinvest d, in 1860, with all the rights,
franchises and priyileges granted to the Minnesota and Pacific
Railroad in 1857 could, speaking generally, have disposed of
such interests at will, but, clearly, it could not have disposed
of the interests acquired by its )urchase, in any manner that
was inconsistent with, or which would have rendered nuga-

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 223
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tory, the requirements or injunctions of the state constitution.
Even if the territorial act of 1857, considered alone, might
have been regarded as a contract with the State in respect
of the amount of the tax to be paid by the railroad company
named in it, that contract ceased to have any force, as against
the State, when the State in 1860 became, by purchase at
foreclosure sale, the owner of all the rights, property, immunities and franchises of the company. The Legislature of the
State could not, after the state constitution went into operation,
have reinvested the old railroad company with such property,
rights, immunities or franchises, or have transferred them to
a new corporation or to a consolidated railroad corporation
created by the union of prior corporations, accompanied by
an exemption from taxation that was inconsistent with the
constitution. Therefore, when by the act of March 8th, 1861,
the State released and restored to the Minnesota and Pacific
Railroad Company the road, lands, property, rights, franchises, privileges and immunities which had belonged to that
company prior to the State's purchase of 1860, there did not
go, there could not have gone, with that release or restoration
an exemption from taxation that was forbidden
by the state
constitution then in operation. That instrument stood in
the way of such legislation. And, upon like grounds, it must
be held that no qualified or partial exemption from taxation
could have been acquired by the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad
Company under the act of March, 1862, which assumed to pass
to that company all the rights, benefits, privileges, property,
franchises and interests of the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad
Company, which the State had acquired by its second purchase. It was not competent for the Legislature, after the
state constitution went into operation, to agree, for the State,
that, the payment of any given per cent of the gross earnings of
the railroad corporation should be in lieu of all other taxation. The constitution again stood in the way.
Apart from the decision of the Supreme Court of Minnesota
in this case the views just expressed are abundantly supported

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

by adjudged cases. It is well to look at some of those cases,
because the question relates to the existence or non-existence
of a contract protected as to its obligation by the Constitution of the United States; and upon that question this court
must exercise its independent judgment. Douglas v. Kentucky,
168 U. S. 489, 492, and authoritiesthere cited.
In Trask v. Maguire, 18 Wall. 401, 404, 409, it appeared
that a railroad company was incorporated with an exemption
from state and county taxes. The corporation obtained a
loan from the State. The act under which the loan was made
and the bonds given to secure it, provided that the acceptance
of such bonds should be a mortgage of the road and every part
thereof -for the benefit of the State. Subsequently, the State
adopted a new constitution, wiich declared ;hat no property,
real or personal, should be exempt from taxation, except such
as was used exclusively for public schools or belonged to the
United States, and also forbade the Legislature to pass any
special laws exempting the property of any named person or
corporation from taxation. The Legislature passed an act
under which proceedings were instituted against defaulting
railroad companies to foreclose the State's lien. Pending
those proceedings, another act was passed, declaring that
any corporation, purchasing at such a foreclosure sale, should
have the same power, franchises, rights and privileges and be
subject to the samd liabilities and restrictions as the corporation whose property and franchises were to be sold. A sale
was had and the State became the purchaser of the defaulting
railroad and its appurtenances. It was then sold to a private
person, who, with-his associates, organized a new corporation
with the same name as the old one. The question was whether
the last corporation was entitled to the immunity from taxation granted to the orig..ial company, This court, speaking
by Mr. Justice Field, said: "When the State became the purchaser the immunity ceased; the property stood in its hands
precisely the same as any other unincumbered property of
the State, exempt from taxation, not by virtue of any previous

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 225
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stipulation with the company, but as all property of the State
is thus exempt. Subsequently the road and its appurtenances,
and all the franchises, which, under the new constitution of
Missouri,. adopted in 1865, were transferable by the State,
were sold by the commissioners to McKay, Vogel, and Simmons,
who conveyed the same to Thomas Allen, who with others,
in July, 1867, bec~me incorporated under the name of the St.
Louis and Iron Mountain Railroad Company. That company
is still in existence, and is one of the defendants herein. To
it Allen transferred all the rights and privileges acquired from
the State. The act under which the sale was made provided
that the purchasers of the road should have all the rights,
franchises,, privileges, and immunities which were enjoyed by
the defaulting company under its charter and laws amendatory thereof, subject to the limitations and conditions therein
contained, and not inconsistent with the act authorizing, the
sale. The new company thus acquired all the immunity from
taxation which the original company had possessed, if it
were competent for the Legislature at the time, under the new
constitution, to confer this privilege. The question, therefore,
is, whether the Legislature was competent to grant the immunity claimed, under that constitution, which went into operation on the fourth of July, 1865, previous to the passage of
any of the acts authorizing the proceedings under which the
new company acquired its rights. . . . The inhibition
of the constitution applies in all its force against the renewal
of an exemption equally as against its originalcreation; and this
inhibition the Legislature could not disregard in providingfor
the sale 6f the property which it had purchased."
The Trask case was cited with approval in Morgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217, 224, and Louisiana & N. R. R. Co. v.
Palmes, 109 U. S. 244, 254.
In the latter case it appeared that at a particular date the
Legislature of Florida passed an act that was valid under the
existing state constitution, which exempted from taxation
the capital stock of railroad companies accepting its proviVOL. ccxvi-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sions. The road, property, franchises and privileges under
that act were acquired by a certain railroad company; there
was a foreclosure and sale under which the road, property
and franchises were ultimately acquired by another railroad
company, and the Legislature, by an act, declared that the
latter company, as assignees of the original company, should
have the same exemption as the old company. But before the
above foreclosure a new state constitution came into operation,
which provided for an uniform and equal rate of taxation,
and that the property of corporations, whenever createdi
should be subject to taxation. This court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Matthews, said: "It does not weaken this conclusion
to say that the exemption contained in the Internal Improvement Act of 1855 was authorized by the Constitution of
the State then in force, which may be admitted, and that it
was assignable in its nature or by its terms in such manner
that it became impressed upon the property itself, into whosesoever hands it should afterwards come.

.

.

.

After the

adoption of the Constitution of Florida of 1868, there could be
no corporation created capable in law of accepting and enjoying such an exemption, for that was prohibited by the constitutional provisions that have been cited. In the case of
the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company, 1872, the
capacity at that time to receive this privilege depended altogether upon the Legislative Act amending its charter to that
effect; and if any doubt as to this might be reasonably entertained, certainly none"can arise as to the Pensacola Railroad
Company, which derived all its powers and its, very existenqe
'from legislation dependent for its validity wholly upon the
Constitution of 1868. The prohibition "Ihich forbids the
Legislature from exempting the property of railroad corporations -from taxation, makes it impossible for the Legislature
to create such a corporation capable in law of acquiring and
holding property free from liability to taxation."
In Memphis Railroad Co. v.. Commissioners, 112 U. S. 6Q9,
623, which was a case in which a railroad claimed an exemp-

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 227
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion from taxation, enjoyed by its predecessor, this court
said: "It is, of course, the law in force at the time the transaction
is consummated and made effectual, that must be looked to as
determining its validity and effect. This is the principle on
which this court proceeded in deciding the case of Railroad
Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359. The franchise to be a corporation
remained in, and was exercised by, the old corporation, notwithstanding the mortgage of its charter, until the new corporation was formed and organized; it was then surrendered
to the State, and by a new grait then made passed to the corporators of the new corporation, and was held and exercised
by them under the constitutional restrictions then existing.
Our conclusions, then, are, that the exemption from taxation
contained in the 28th section of the act of January 11, 1853,
was intended to apply only to the Memphis and Little Rock
Railroad Company as the original corporation organized under
it; that it did'not pass by the mortgage of its charter and works,
as included in the transfer of the franchise to be a corporation,
to the mortgagees or purchasers at the judicial sale; that the
franchises embraced in that conveyance were limited to those
which had been granted as appropriate to the construction,
maintenance, operation, and use of the railroad as a public
highway and the right to make profit therefrom; and that the
appellant, not having become a corporate body until after the
restrictions in the Constitution of 1874 took effect, was thereby
incapable in law of having or enjoying the privilege of holding
its property exempt from taxation." That case was referred
to with approval in Mercantile Bank v. Tennessee, 161 U. S.
161, where it was held that a sale of a corlorate charter and
franchises transferred to the purchaser only the right to reorganize as a corporation, "subject to the laws, constitutional
and otherwise, existing at the time of the organization."
A case in point is Keokuk & Western Railroad Company v.
Missouri, 152 U. S. 301, 312. Under the authority of a legislative enactment, passed in 1869, a Missouri corporation was
consolidated in 1870 with an Iowa corporation, created in

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

1857, and the charter of which contained an exemption of its
stock from taxation for a specified period. The consolidated
road was sold in 1886 undei a decree of foreclosure of a mortgage given by the Iowa corporation and conveyed to the
Keokuk and Western Rqilroad Company. The latter company claimed the -benefit of the exemption contained in the
charter of the company created in 1857. Between that date
and the passage of the act of 1869 a new state constitution was
adopted, and it provided that "no property, real or personal,
shall be exempt from taxation, except such as may be used
exclusively.for public schools, and such as may belong to the
United States, to this State, to counties, or to municipal corporations within this State." After considering the general
question whether an immunity from taxation passed to the
purchaser of the franchises, rights, and privileges of a railroad
company -under a foreclosure of a mortgage, the court said:
"But the decisive answer to this objection is that the Legislature had no power, in 1869, to extend to a new corporation
created by the consolidation an exemption contained in an
act passed in 1857, before the constitution was adopted, and
hence that, under the terms of this act, we cannot hold that
immunity from taxation passed as a franchise or privilege
to the. consolidated corporation. The construction claimed
by the defendant would be directly in the teeth of the constitutional provision that no property shall be exempted from
taxation. While, as heretofore observed, an exemption from
taxation contained in a charter previously granted could not
be taken away by this constitutional provision without the
impairment of the obligation of a contract, it doubtless applies
to all corporationsthereafter formed either by original charter or
by the consolidation of prior corporationsunder the act of 1869."
In Yazoo & Miss. Valley Ry. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 1, 23,
which related to an exemption from taxation claimed by a
company consolidated in 1892 by the union of companies
organized in 1882, and which consolidation was held to create
a new corporation, this court said: "But it is scarcely necessary

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 229
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to say that, if the consolidation of 1892 resulted in a new
corporation, it would come into existence under the constitution of 1890, with the disabilities attaching thereto, among
which is the provision that 'the property of all private corporations for pecuniary gain shall be taxed in the same way and
to the same extent as the property of individuals.' Even if
the Legislature, in these several acts of consolidation, had
expressly provided that, the new corporation thereby formed
should be exempted from taxation, the higher law of the
constitution would be interpreted as nullifying it to that extent. A similar remark may be made with regard to the
provision that these companies might consolidate upon such
terms as they should agree upon. Obviously such terms must
be consistent with the law existing at the time of the consolidation. . . . Under no circumstances would they be interpreted as conveying rights to the new corporation which the
Legislature was incompetent to confer."
In Rochester Ry. Co. v. Rochester, 205 U. S. 236, 254, 255,
it was held, in respect to a legislative enactment assuming to
transfer to a particular corporation an exemption granted to.
a former corporation, the court, after a full reference to the
adjudged cases, held: "No corporation can receive by transfer
from another an exemption from taxation: or governmental
regulation which is inconsistent with its own charter or with
the constitution or laws of the State then applicable, and
this is true, even though, under legislative authority, the
exemption is transferred by words Which clearly include it;"
that "those who seek and obtain the benefit of a charter of
incorporation must take the benefit under the conditions and
with the burdens prescribed by the laws then in force, whether
in the constitution, in general laws or in the charter itself."
The recent case of Yazoo & Miss. Valley R. R. Co. v. Vicksburg, 209 U. S. 358, 364, 365, was the case of a consolidated
corporation claiming the benefit of an exemption legally
given to its predecessor before the adoption of a state constitution prohibiting the exemption of corporate property

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

from taxation. This court said: "The exemption to the former
constituent company could not inure to the consolidated
company without, in effect, ignoring the constitutional
provision.....
...
The formation of the consolidated company was not imposed upon the complainant; it had the
privilege of standing upon such rights as it had by contract
or otherwise under the former legislation in force before the
adoption of the new constitution. When it saw fit to enter
into the consolidation and form .a new corporation in 1892
the constitution then in force in the State became the law of
its corporate being, and the requirement that corporate
property should not be exempt from taxation then became
binding-upon it, as upon all other corporations formed under
the new organic law."
In view of the adjudged cases it would seem clear that after
the Minnesota constitution went into operation in 1858 the
Legislature could not, by legislation or'otherwise, enter into a
binding contract for a complete or partial exemption, either
in favor of the corporation originally created by the Territory
in 1857, or in favor of a new railroad corporation or of one
created by the consolidation of old corporations. It must have
been controlled by the fundamental law of the State. So the
highest court of Minnesota has held in this case. And so we
hold. It follows that legislative acts, relating to the property
And railroads here in question, and passed after the state
constitution took effect, which proceeded, in the matter of
taxation on* grounds of taxation different from those established by that instrument, were ineffectual.
We have not deemed it necessary in this discussion to refer
in detail to the numerous cases in the Supreme Court of the
'State which have been cited by counsel. This course has been
pursued for two reasons: 1. The state court, in its opinion in
the present case, said: "That the question here presented, viz.,
whether the provisions of the Minnesota and Pacific Company's
eIarter on the subject of the earnings tax constituted an irrevocable contract was not involved in any prior litigation be-

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 231
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.,

tween the State and the railroad company, and as what was
said in the previous cases bearing upon the question was
wholly unnecessary to the decision of the particular case, and
therefore not of binding force or effect, we take up and-dispose
of the present case as though the question were, as it is, here
for the first time." We accept that view of the state court
as to the scope of its own decisions. 2. The question just
stated-the question of the existence or non-existence of a
binding contract with the State-is one peculiarly for the
final determination of this court. The authorities heretofore
cited by us show that upon an issue of that kind this court
must, upon its own responsibility and independent judgment
determine the legal rights of the parties under the clause of
the Federal Constitution protecting the obligation of contracts
against being impaired by state legislation.
In the present case it is gratifying that there is a concurrence
of views between this court and the state court upon the
question whether the plaintiff in error, the Great Northern
Railway Company, described by the state court as the "successor in interest of all the prior companies," was entitled, as
upon contract, to claim the. benefit of the three per centum
gross earnings tax provision in the act of 1857. And this
seems to be a determination of the only question of a Federal
nature arising on this writ of error and which should be now
decided; for, if the contention of the'railroad company as to
that question be overruled-as both this court and the state
court agree that it must be-it would only remain to inquire
whether the act of 1903, prescribing a four per centum gross
earnings tax, was,, authorized by the state constitution, as
amended in 1871. The Supreme Court of the State adjudges
that it was so authoriz.cd, but that is a state or local question
upon which this court need not express its opinion. It is
true that one of the assignments of error before the state court
was that the act of 1903 was inconsistent \vith the due process
clause of the Federal Constitution. But the suggestion was
not much pressed, in argument; and it cannot, under the evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

dence before us in this case, be assumed that the rate prescribed by the act of 1903 is confiscatory either in its nature
or in its necessary operation. If, when the act of 1903 was
passed, the State was not fettered by inviolable contracts in
respect of the taxation of the gross earnings of railroad property, there was nothing to prevent the Legislature, instructed
by a popular vote, from prescribing an uniform gross earnings
tax for all railroad property operated in the State. There
being no adequate proof showing the contrary, the rate prescribed 'by that act must be taken as being within the power
of the Legislature to establish and not as being confiscatory.
There is absolutely nothing in the record that would. justify
.the conclusion that the rhte fixed by the act of 1903 was confiscatory in its nature, that is, wanting in the due process of
law enjoined by the Constitution.
One other matter deserves notice. Some reference was
made at the argument to Stearns v. Minnesota, 179 U. S. 223,
230, 240, 253. There is nothing in the judgment in that case
which at all conflicts with or controls the decision in this case.
That case involved only the question whether certain lands
owned by -the defendant railroad cbmpanies, but which were
not used in the operation of their roads in the State, were
subject to taxation according to their value or were exempted
from ordinary rule of taxation by virtue of statutes, like that
of 1857, passed after the state constitution took effect. A
similar question was adyerted to in the present case and the
state Supreme Court, referring to the charter of the Minnesota
and Pacific Railroad Company, said: "Two distinct provisions on the subject of taxation were embodied therein, the
first providing for a gross earnings tax in lieu of all other taxes
and assessm ents, and second, an exemption of the land
granted until sold or contracted to be sold by the company."
Observing that the exemption in question did not pass as an
appurtenant to the railroad properties in question and was
not included within the expression 'rights, privileges, and
immunities'-citing Gulf &c. Ry. Co. v. Hewes, 183 U. S. 66;

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY v. MINNESOTA. 233
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

C. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Miller, 114 U. S. 176; Lake v. Drummond,
49 S. E. Rep. 506; Rochester v. Ry. Co., 182 N. Y. 99; Covington
Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578-the court said: "'A
distinction must not be overlooked when considering the
assignability of a tax exemption between those imposing a
commuted system in lieu of property taxes, and those exempting specific property. In the former case the system does not
attach to the corporation or concern thus taxed nor to any
particular pyroperty, and necessarily is personal and not assignable. But where, as in the case at bar, specific land, granted
to a railroad company to aid in the construction of a railroad
company, is specifically exempted from taxation until sold
by the company, and the company accepts, in consideration
of the exemption, the exemption attaches to and follows the
land. New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; State v. Hicks,
30 Am. Dec. 423; Ry. Co. v. State, 75 Texas, 356. In such
case, as we have frequently held, as will be shown later, the
exemption is appurtenant to and passes with the land to a
succeeding corporation assumi.-g the burden attached to it."
In tho Stearns case the court determined only the question
whether the lands of the railroad company were taxable. It
held, upon the showing there made, that there was a valid
contract with the railroad companies in respect to the taxation of the lands there in question which it Was beyond the
power of the State to impair by legislation. Notliing beyond
that was actually adjudged in the Stearns case. No such
question arises in the present case. There is no attempt here
to tax the lands granted by the territorial act of 1857 6r by
any other act.
The State sues only for the balance due to it on account
of taxes imposed by the act of 1903 on the gross earnings of
property used and operated within its limits for railroad
purposes.
Perceiving no error in the record as to the Federal question
involved, the judgment must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

