FRANKLIN v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

attempt to take all the available property in his hands to apply
on a mortgage void as to creditors at the time of the adjudication.
We are of opinion, for the reasons stated, that the mortgages
in question are void, and that undcr the Bankruptcy Law the
trustee can assert their invalidity.
Judgment ja~firmed.

FRANKLIN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIlE
ROUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 736.

Submitted February 21, 1910.-1)ecided March 14, 1910.

The sixty-second article of war does not vest, nor purport to vest
exclusive jurisdiction in courts-martial, and civil courtg have concurrent jurisdiction over all offenses committed by a military
officer which may be punished under the provisions of that article.
The effect of § 3 of the acts of March 3, 1825, c. 65, 4 Stat. 115; April 5,
1866, c. 24, 14 Stat. 13, carried forward in § 5391, Rev. Stat.; and
July 7, 1898, c. 576, 30 Stat. 717, providing that the punishment
of offenses in places ceded by the State to the United States not
specially provided for by any law of the United States shall be the
same as that provided for by the law of the State ceding the place
where the offense was committed, is limited to the criminal laws
in force in the several States at the time of the enactment of the
legislation, and those statutes do not delegate to such States authority to in any way change the criminal law of the United States.
United States v. Paul, 6 Pet. 141.
Jurisdiction of this court under the act of 1891 of a direct appeal
from the Circuit Court cannot be based on constitutional points
that are absolutely unfounded in substance as in this case.

indictments were returned against plaintif in error
by the grand Jury in the Southern District of New York. In
the first of said indictments he was charged with the embezzleTHREE

OCTOBElt TEIRM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

ment of certain persodal property of the cadets at the United
States Military A.adeiny, uponi a Government reservation, to
wit, the West Point Military Reservation, in the Southern
District of New York, in violation of § 5391, Rev. Stat., as
amended by the act of July 7, 1898; and of §§ 528 and 531 of
the New York Penal Code.
In the second indictment he was charged with making and
presenting to an officer of the army, for approval, false claims
upon the Government of the United States for supplies furnished to the cadet mess at West Point, in violation of § 5438,
Rev. Stat.; and, in the third indictment, he was charged with
making and presenting to an officer of the army, for approval
and for payment, -afalse claim upon the United States War
Department, and Upon the treasurer of the United States Military Academy, in violation of § 5438, Rev. Stat.
Demurrers to the indictments were overruled and they were
then consolidated. The first of said indictments contained
six counts, in three of which plaintiff in error was charged with
grand larceny in the second degree, under the New York Penal
Code, and in the other three iewas charged with embezzlement of the same funds, in violation of the New York Penal
Code; but the first three of said counts were nolle prossed. The
defendant thereupon pleaded guilty to all three of the indictments; but before judgment was pronounced he moved in arrest of judgment, the grounds of his motion hcing as follows:
"1. Because the said fourth, fifth, and s.\tli coufts of the
indictmint against the said defendant for gr: d larceny under
section 2, chapter 576, act of July 7, 1898, to and of which the
defendant plealed and was found guilty, do not, nor does any
oile of the said counts, charge acriminal offense under the
laws of the United States.
"2. Because th said section 2, chapter 576, of an act of
Congress ,pjrovcd .J-ily 7, 1898, entitled 'Anl act to protect the
hai'bor defeises ,ui I-fortifications constructed by the United
States frlom malicious injury, and for other purposes,' is unconstitutional aid void.

FRANKLIN v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"3. Because by the Constitution and the laws of the United
States this court here has no jurisdiction of the offense alleged
to have been committed by this defendant in said fourth, fifth,
and sixth counts of the said indictments, because he says the
said section 2, chapter 576, of the said act of Congress approved
July 7, 1898, confers upon this court here no jurisdiction of
this cause, nor any legal power to hear, try, and determine the
same, inasmuch as the punishment for the offense alleged in
said indictment, and in each and every count thereof, when
committed by the treasurer of the United States Military
Academy, an officer of the Army of the United States, is provided for by section 1342, Revised Statutes of the United
States; and inasmuch as, by the said Constitution and laws,
exclusive jurisdiction over said offense, when committed by a
person subject to military j urisdiction, is vested in the properly
constituted and authorized courts-martial of the United
States.
"4. Because the facts alleged in said counts under section
5438, Revised Statutes of the United States, do not, as alleged
in said counts, or in any one of them, charge a criminal offense
against the United States."
This motion was overruled, and defendant was sentenced to
serve a term of imprisonment of two and one-half years in the
United States penitentiary at Atlanta; and, errors being assigned which raised the questions presented in the motion in
arrest of judgment, the case was removed to this court by writ
of error.
The statutes under which said indictments were found are as
follows:
1. Section 2 of the act of July 7, 1898, c. 576, 30 Stat. 717:
"That when any offense is committed in any place, jurisdiction over which has been retained by the United States or
ceded to it by a State, or which has been purchased with the
consent of a State for the erection of a fort, magazine, arsenal,
dockyard, or other needful building or structure, the punishment for which offense is not provided for by any law of the
VoL. ccxvi--36

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statcmcnt of tile Casc.

216 U. S.

I nited States, the person committing such offense shall, upon
conviction, in a Circuit or District Court of the United States
for the district in hvIoc:h the offense was committed, he liable
to an(.[ reeeive the san i)unishineit as the laws of-the State
ill which sueh place is situate(d low provide for the like offeIIse
when ,onunitted vilin the iurisllietion of such State, and the
said CoUrts are hereby vest(d with jurisdiction for such iur i)ose; and no suibse ulent relpeal of any such State law shall
altect any such ro.sc utioni.''
2.. Sctio nls 528 anid 531 of the Penal Colde oIf New York:
or
"Six. 528. A ip(,rs(.n who, with the int('it to de'prive ol,fraud the true o\vwr of his )ro)(rty, or of the 1ls(' IIod boenefit
tllrof, or to all)ropriate the s'une to the use of the taker, or
of any other l)(rson"1. Takes fron the I)ossessioi of the true owiner, or (of any
other pe)(r.sion; or obtainIs froi ii suCh l)OSessi oiI by cll)r 0II aid
of fraudulent or false rel)resentation or I rete "e, or of 'il Y
i:aitt.s
false token or writing; or secretes, with1iholds, or apl)ol
to his own use, or that of any l)CTrOI other thli the true
owner, any money, personal property, thing in action, evidence
of debt or contract, o! article of value of any kind; or,
"2. Having in his possession, custody, or control, as a
bailee, servant, attorney, agent, clerk, trustee, or officer of any
l)erson, association, or corporation, or as a public officer, or as
Sl)erson authorized by agreement, or by competent authority,
to hold or lake su1(. iossession, custody, or control, any
ni1011ey, prowertv, evidence of debt or contract, article of value
of any na1lre,, or thing in action or possession, appropriates
the satne to his own use, or that of any other person other than
the tre owner or l)ersoh entitled to the benefit thereof, steals
such plroperty and is guilty of larceny.
"S ,:c. 531. A petrson is guilty of grand larceny in the second
degree who, under circumstances not amounting to grand
larceny in the first degree, in any manner specified in this
article, steals or unlawfully obtains or appropriates:

FRANKLIN v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"1. Property of the value of more than twenty-five dollars,
but not exceeding five hundred dollars, in any manner whatever; or
"2. Property of any value, by taking the same from the
person of another; or
"3. A record of a court or officer, or a writing, instrument,
or record kept, filed, or deposited according to law, with, or in
keeping of any public office or officer."
3. Section 5438, Revised Statutes, so far as applicable to
these indictments:
"Every person who makes or causes to be made, or presents
or causes to be presented, for payment or approval, to or by
any )erson or officer in the civil, military, or naval 'service of
the United States, any claim upon or against the Government
of the United States, or any department or officer thereof;
knowing such claim to be false, fictitious, or fraudulent, or
who, for the purpose of obtaining or aiding to obtain the payment or approval of such claim, makes, uses, or causes to be
made or used, any false bill, receipt, voucher, roll, account,
claim, certificate, affidavit, or deposition, knowing the same
to contain any fraudulent or fictitious statement or entry
every person so offending in any of the matters
set forth in this'section shall be imprisoned at hard labor for
not less than one nor more than five years or fined not less than
one thousand nor more than five thousand dollars."
Mr. Holmes Conrad for plaintiff in error:
Congress exercised its power under Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution in the law that now appears as § 5391, Rev. Stat.,
which provides that "if any offense be committed," etc.
An offense is the doing what sonic penal law forbids to be
done, or the omitting to do what that law commands to be
done. No statute law of the United States has been found
under which the acts charged in these indictments h-ave been
declared to be offenses. Wharton, Crim. Law, § 253, citing
these cases. There can be no constructive offenses, and be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

fore a inan can be punished, his case must be plainly and un-.
mistakably within tie statute. United States v. Lache, 134
U. S. 628; Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S. 203, and see
Ex parte Smith, 94 U. S. 456.
Neither §5391 or the act of July 7, 1898, declares the acts
here charged to be offenses. They do not create any offense.
The statute laws of New York cannot create offenses against
the UJnited States any more than the statute laws of the
United States ('al create offenses against the State of New
York. The acts charged may be offcnses under the laws of
the State of New York, but they are not, for that reason,
punishable by the United States. The act does not pui'port
to adopt the penal codes of the several States of the Union
as penal laws of the.United States as to all acts done o gov-

ernment reservations within the States. As to the question
of the jurisdiction to try and punish for offenses committed
within Government reservations, see Fort Leavenworth R. R.
Co. v. Lowe, III U. S.525; Virginia v. Paul, 148 U. S. 107.
A grand jury, whether of the State, or of the United States,
is empaneled and sworn to inquire into and present offenses
against that government only under whose authority it is
summoned. Story on Const., § 1784.
The eases cited show that the questions involved are not

so manifestly frivolous as to warrant the court in affirming
the judgment.
If the facts c(an support any theory consistent with innocence, the defendant is 6ntitled to the adopt ion of that theory.
Every presumption is in his favor, and he is entitled, even
on demurrer, to the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
The only cases offering any information as to the statutes
are United States v. Paul, 6 Pet. 141, which simply decided
that the act of 1825 was to be limited to the laws of the several States in force at the time of its passage, and United
States v. Barney, 24 Fed. Cas. 101.1; United States v. Barna by, 51 Fed. Rep. 23, which simply followed the above decision. The act of 1825 does not define the "offenses" but

FRANKLIN v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

simply provides a punishment for those offenses defined by
Congress, but for Which Congress may have failed'to prescribe specific punishment.
Words in a statute which have acquired a particular legal
meaning are, when applied to the subject-matter as to which
they have acquired such meaning, to be taken in their legal
meaning. The Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440, Rice v. Minnesota &c.
R. Co., 1 Black (U. S.), 58; United States v. Jones, 3 Wash.
(U. S.) 209; Brocket v. Ohio R. Co., 14 Pa. St. 241; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Scircle, 103 Indiana, 229; Buckner v. Real
Estate Bank, 4 Arkansas, 441; Hillhouse v. Chester, 3 Day
(Conn.), 211; United States v. Smith, 4 Day (Conn.), 121.
An offense is defined, at the common law, to be an act or
omission forbidden by law and punishable upon conviction.
See "Offense," Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law; Bouvier Law Dictionary; People v. Hanrahan, 75 Michigan, 611; People v.
Police Commissioners, 39 Hun (N. Y.), 508; Wragg v. Penn
Township, 95 Illinois, 18; Moore v. Illinois, 14 How. (U. S.)
19; State v. Oleson, 26 Minnesota, 516; Reg. v. Sutcliffe, 13
A. & E. 833.
The terms "crime," "offense," and "criminal offense"
are all synonymous and ordinarily used interchangeably, and
include any breach of law, established for the protection of
the public, as distinguished from an infringement of mere
private rights for which a penalty is imposed or punishment
inflicted in any judicial proceeding. State v. Cantieny, 34
Minnesota, 1; State v. West, 42 Minnesota, 147; Whartonis
Crim. Law, § 14.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
No fair question exists as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York over this case. United States v. Clark, 71 Fed.
Rep. 710; 6 Opin. Atty. Gen. 413, 419, opinionf rendered
October 20, 1909; and see Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509,
574; Grafton v. United States, 206 U. S.333, 348.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

The difference in the language used in Art. 62, § 1342,
.Rev. Stat., and that used in § 5438, Rev. Stat., and in § 2
of the act of July 7, 1.898, clearly shows that it was the intention of Congress that offenses committed in violation of
tim' latter statute s)ulhI Ibe) punished by the civil courts.
No real constitulinual question is here presented.
The contention thmat. § 2 of the act of July 7, 1898, is unConstitutional I)ecauuse it undertook to delegate the power of
legislat ion to the state legislatures is untenable. See United
Stales v. Paul, 6 Pet. 141, 143, which has been cited with
apl)roval in a miul)er of subsequent cases, )oth state a(l
Fed(eral. Rose's Notes on U. S. Rep., ). 239. There is ino
delegation to the States of authority in any way to change
the criminal laws al)plicable to places over which the United
States ha jurisdiction. The act had precisely the same effect
as if all the criminal statutes of such States, creating offenses
for which punislnent had not been provided by congressional legislation, had beei set forth in extenso in the body
of the act.
It is not necessary, therefore, to consider whether Congress
has power to provide that laws afterwards passed by state
legislatures shall be effective in places within the jurisdictio'i
of the United States.
If this court can be said to have jurisdiction, yet the decision of the lower court is so manifestly right that the case
should not be kept for further argument, but. the judgment
of the lower court should be affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error brought directly to this court from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, and the grounds upon which it is .rested appear to
beFirst. That under the sixty-second Article of War, § 1342,
Revised Statutes, which reads:

FRANKLIN v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"All crimes not capital,, and all disorders and neglects,
which officers and soldiers may be guilty of, to the prejudice
of good order and military discipline, though not mentioned
in the foregoing Articles of War, are to be taken cognizance
of by a general or a regimental, garrison, or field officers' courtmartial, according to the nature and degree of the offense, and
punished at the discretion of such court,"
a court-martial has exclusive jurisdiction of the offenses
charged herein, inasmuch as plaintiff in error was an officer of
the United States army; and,
Second. That the case involved the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States, and that the
constitutionality of a law of the United States was drawn in
question because, as is alleged, § 2 of the act of July 7, 1898, is
unconstitutional, in that it undertakes to delegate the power
of legislation to the state legislatures.
1. It is well settled that the sixty-second Article of War does
not vest, nor purport to vest, exclusive jurisdiction in courtsmartial, and that civil courts have concurrent jurisdiction over
all offenses committed by a military officer which may be
punished by a court-martial under the provisions of that
,article.
The thirtieth section of the act of March 3, 1863, c. 75, 12
Stat. 736, provided that in time of war, insurrection or rebellion certain offenses, including murder, "shall be punishable
by the sentence of a general court-martial or military commission, when committed by persons who are in the military
service of the United States, and subject to the Articles of War;
and the punishments for such offenses shall never be less than
those inflicted by the laws of the State, Territory, or district
in which they may have been committed."
'In Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509, it was held that this
statute did not confer upon courts-martial exclusive jurisdiction for the trial of the offenses mentioned.
In Grafton v. United States, 206 U. S. 333, 348, it was expressly declared that the jurisdiction of courts-martial is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

exclusive. Undoubtedly the general rule is that the jurisdiction of civil courts is concurrent as to offenses triable before
courts-martial. See Opinion of Attorney-General Cushing, 6
01). A. G. 413, 419; United Slates v. Clark, 31 Fed. Rep. 710.
And in the present case the language of article 62 and that
of § 5438, Revised Statutes, and of § 2 of the act of July 7,
1898, demonstrates that it was the intention of Congress that
offenses committed in violation of the latter statute should be
punished by the civil courts; to say nothing of the fact that
it was expressly provided in § 2, and prior laws, that conviction should be "in a Circuit or District Court of the United
States for the district in wvhich the offense was committed."
There is absolutely nothing in the first proposition.
2. This is equally so of the intimated constitutional point.
By § 3 of the act of March 3, 1825, c. 65, 4 Stat. 115, it was
provided:
"That, if any offense shall be committed in any of the places
aforesaid, the punishment of which offense is not specially
provided for by any law of the United States, such offense
shall, upon a conviction in any court of the United States having cognizance thereof, be liable to, and receive the same punishment.as the laws of the State in which such fort, dockyard,
navy yard, arsenal, armory, or magazine, or other place, ceded
as aforesaid, is situated provided for the like offense when
committed within the body of any county of such State."
In United States v. Paul, 6 Pet. 141, 143, coming here on
certificate of division, it was held by this court, speaking by
Chief Justice Marshall, that the effect of this section was
"limited to the laws of the-several States in force at the time
6f its enactment;." and it followed that by this act Congress
adopted for the government of the designated places, under
the exclusive jurisdiction and control of the United States, the
criminal laws then existing in theseveral States within which
such places were situated, in so far as said laws were not displaced by specific laws enacted by Congress.
Section 2 of the act of July 7, 1898, q,. 576, 30 Stat. 717, was

FRANKLIN v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the same effect, and, moreover, by express language Congress adopted such punishment as "the laws of the State in
which such place is situated now provide for the like offense."
There is, plainly, no delegation to the States of authority in
any way to change the criminal laws applicable to places over
which the United States has jurisdiction.
We give below the legislation on the subject. 1
On March 3, 1825, Congress passed, c. 65, 4 Stat. 115:
"Chap. LXV. An act more effectually to provide for the punishment
of certain crimes against the United States, and for other purposes.
"Suc. 3. That, if any offense shall be committed in aiiy of the places
aforesaid, the punishment of which offense is not specially provided
for by any law of the United States, such offense shall, upon a (-onviction in any court of the United States having cognizance thereof,
be liable to, and receive the' same punishment as the laws of the
State in which such fort, dockyard, navy yard, arsenal, armory, or
magazine, or other place, ceded as aforesaid, is situated, provide for
the like offense when committed within the body- of any county of
such State."
On April 5, 1866, Congress enacted the following, e. 24, 14 Stat. 13:
"Chap. XXIV. An act more effectually to provide for the punishment
of certain crimes against the United States.
"SEc. 2. That if any offense shall be committed in any place which
has been, or shall hereafter be, ceded to, and under the jurisdiction
of the United States, which offense is not prohibited, or the punishment thereof is not specially provided for by any law of the United
States, such offense shall, upon conviction in any court of the United
States having cognizance thereof, be liable to, and receive the same
punishment as the laws of the State in which such place is, or may
be situated, now in force, provide for the like offense when committed
within the jurisdiction of such State; and no subsequent repeal of any
such State law shall affect any prosecution for such offense in any
of the courts of the United States."
This act was carried forward as § 5391 of the Revised Statutes, as
follows:
"SEc. 5391. If any offense be committed in any place which has
been or may hereafter be, ceded to and under the jurisdiction of the
United States, which offense is not prohibited, or tile punishment
.thereof is not specially provided for, by any law of the United States.

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

We are of opinion that the points attempted to be raised to
justify jurisdiction are so unfounded in substance-as to utterly
fail of their purpose.
Writ of error dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
such offense shall be liable to, and receive, the same punishment as
the laws of the State in which such l)lace is situated, now in force,
provide for the like offense when committed within the jurisdiction
of such State; and no subsequent repeal of any such State law shall
affect any prosecution for such offense in any court of the United
States."
The act of July 7, 189S,
c. 576, 30 Stat. 717, upon the same subject,
reads:
"SEC. 2. That when any offense is committed in any place, jurisdiction over which has been retained by the United States or ceded
to it by a State, or which has been purchased with the consent of a
State for the erection of a fort, magazine, arsenal, dockyard, or other
needful building or structure, the punishment for which offense is not
provided for by any law of the United States, the person connitting
such offense sh-all, upon conviction in the Circuit or District Court of
the United States for the district in which the offense was committed,
be liable to and receive the same pLinishment as the laws of the State
in which such place is situated now provide for the like offense when
committed within the jurisdiction of such State, and the said courts
are hereby vested with jurisdiction for such purpose; and no subsequent repeal of any such State law shall affect any such prosecution."
This section appears in the act of Congress, approved March 4; 1909,
c. 321,35 Stat. 1145, modifying, amending and revising the penal laws
of the United States, to become effective January 1, 1910, as follows:
"SEC. 289. Whoever, within the territorial limits of any State,
organized Territory, or District, but within or upon any of the places
now existing or hereafter reserved or acquired, described in section
two hundred and seventy-two of this act, shall do or omit the doing
of any act or thing which is not made penal by any law of Congress,
but which if committed or omitted within the jurisdiction of the
State, Territory or District in which such place is situated, by the
laws thereof now in force wofild be penll, shall be deemed guilty of a
like offense and be subject to a like punishment; and every such State,
Territorial or District law shall, for the purposes of this section, continue in force, notwithstanding aniy subsequent repeal or amendment
thereof by any-such State, Territory or District."

