MONONGAHELA BRIDGE v. UNITED STATES. 177
216 U. S.

I Syllabus.

PRESIDENT, MANAGERS, AND COMPANY OF THE
MONONGAHELA BRIDGE COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ERROR TO THE )ISTRICT COURT OF TIiE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.,
No. 91.

Argued January 19, 1910.-l)ecided February 21, 1910.

Congress may, in order to enforce its enactments, clothe an executive
officer with power to ascertain whether certain specified facts exist
and thereupon to act in a pres(ribed aner, without delegating, ill
a constitutional sense, legislativc or judcial )owcr to such officer.
Under its paramount power to regulate commnrrce, Congress, car require navigable waters of the United States, although within a Stat(
to'be freed from unreasonable obstructions; and it is not a delegation
of legislative or judicial power to charge the Secretary of War with
the duty of ascertaining, under a general rule applicable to all navigable waters and upon notice to the parties in interest, whether a
particular bridge is an unreasonable obstruction to navigation.
An act of Congress which invests the Secretary of War with power
to require the removal of obstructions to navigation after notice to
parties in interest and opportunity to be heard and reasonable -time
to make alterations in the obstruction, as § 18 of the River and
Harbor Act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1151, does not invest the
Secretary with arbitrary power beyond constitutional limitations.
To require, after notice and hearing, alterations to be made within a
reasonable time and in a bridge over such navigable waters so as to
prevent its being an obstruction to navigation, is not a taking of private property for public use which, under the Constitution, must be
preceded by compensation m'ade or secured to the owners of the
bridge.
The erection of a bridge over such navigablc waters within a State 1y
authority. of the State is subject to the p'araomt :uthority of ('ongress to regulate commerce among the States and its right to remove
unreasonable obstructions to navigation.
The mere silence of Congress, and its failure to interfere to prevent the
construction under state authority of an obstruction to navigation
does not prevent it from subsequently requiing the removal of the
obstruction or impose upon the United States a constitutional obligation to make compensation therefor.

VOL. ccxvi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

It is for Congress, under the Constitution, to regulate the right of navigation in navigable waters of the United States and to declare what
must be done to clear navigation from obstructions; and where this
has been done in the manner required by Congress it is not the
province of the jury, on the trial of one refusing to remove obstructions, to determine whether the removal was necessary.
An act will not be declared unconstitutional merely because an executive officer might, in another case, act' rbitrarily or recklessly under
it. If such a case arises the courts can lrotect the rights of the Government or persons which are based on fundamental principles for
the protection of rights of property.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. David Watson, with whom Mr. James H. Beal was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The court below-erred in refusing the offer of the Bridge
Company to prove that the bridge was not an unreasonable
obstruction to the navigation of the river, and that the
changes in the bridge ordered by the Secretary of War were
not necessary; and in also ruling that the proceedings before
the Secretary of War were conclusive, and not subject to the
examination of the courts.
No citizen can be deprived of his property through such
a mental impression of the Secretary, merely because he has
good reason to believe it was an obstruction. To have good
reason to believe does not involve a definitive conclusion that
he does believe the bridge is unreasonable, for there may be
better good reasons to show it is not.
All trials in courts of justice where the private property of
a citizen is involved must be in accordance with due process
of law. This the Fifth Amendment requires. Even if due
process of law does not always require judicial proceedings,
still when Congress expressly confers jurisdiction upon the
courts, then to the extent of that jurisdiction the courts will
proceed to perform their duty in accordance with their own
settled rules and maxim s. They will always administer
justice by due process of law.

MONONGAHELA BRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
216 u. S.

179

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

As to what is due process of law see Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 78, 101; C., B. & Q. Ry. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226,
234; Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S. 373, 386; Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 707.
The owners of the bridge were being tried charged with a
crime. It was a criminal trial and the defendant was charged
with a misdemeanor. Under Art. III, § 2, Amendment VI,
Fed. Const., the trial of all crimes shall be by jury.
As to the citizen's right to a fair, full trial in court before
he can be convicted of a crime, see among others, Kilbourn v.
Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, 182.
While the power to prescribe a reasonable rate for the
future is a legislative function, the question whether a given
rate violates the private property rights of an individual or a
corporation is a judicial function, and cannot be delegated to
an administrative or executive body. Interstate Comm. Comm.
v. Railway Co., 167 U. S. 493, 499; Reagan v. Farmers' L. &
T. Co., 154 U. S. 397, 399; Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211
U. S. 210, 226; Rider v. United States, 178 U. S. 251; Salem v.
Railroad Co., 98 Massachusetts, 461; Miller v. Horton, 152
Massachusetts, 540; Stone v. Heath, 179 Massachusetts, 385;
Lowe v. Conroy, 120 Wisconsin, 151; Pearson v. Zehr, 138
Illinois, 48; State v. Main, 69 Connecticut, 123; Gaines v.
Waters, 64 Arkansas, 609, 612; cases collected in Due Process
of Law by McGehee, 372.
An executive board or committee or officer cannot conclude
the owner of private property from proving in court that its
conclusions are correct. North American Storage Co. v.
Chicago, 211 U. S. 306; Fisher v. McGirr, 1 Gray, 36; Commonwealth v. New Bedford Bridge Co., 7 Gray, 339; Rosenberger v. Harris, 136 Fed. Rep. 1003; Turner v. Williams,
194 U. S. 295; Colon v. Lisk, 153 N. Y. 188; The People v.
Yonkers, 140 N. Y. 1.
Whether a nuisance exists is always ultimately a mixed
question of law and of fact, to be determined by a court.
Cooley's Const. Lim., 7th ed., 883; Dillon on Mun. Corp.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff 'inError.

216 U. S.

4th ed., par. 374; Wood's Law of Nuisances, §§ 22, 483, 493;
Frostberg v. Hitchins, 99 Maryland, 617, 628; Hutton v. City
of Camden, 29 N. J. L. 122; Texas v.St. Albans, 38.W. Va. 19;
Yeates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; The Mississippi R. R. Co.
v. Ward, 2 Black, 485, 492; Health Department v. Trinity
Church, 145 N. Y. 32; Bridye Co. v. United States, 105 U. S. 470.
A public trial, such as Art. III and Amend. VI guarantees
to the own 5 : of a bridge being charged with a crime, necessarily involves the (It'stioii of the guilt or innocence of the
defentdanlt, atnd1 the co0urts will i it paSs arl)itrarily aind (toviet :11'litr,'aily, wvhe ii the ( le(,atl a t oiers to ir ve that,t h(,
l I nisaIle, Mel1v oil the ip."
is not guilty tf aintailinitg
dixit of the Sec.'etary of War to the contra ry. rhe court;
must and will of themselves investigate ami (lete'mine tha,
question. Callan v. lWilWon, 127 U. S. 540, 549, 557.
am
To accord to the accused a right to be tried by a jury, ii,
appellate court, after he has been once fully tried otherwise
than by a jury, in the court of original jurisdiction, and
sentenced to pay a fine or be imprisoned for not paying, it,
(toes not satisfy the requiiements of the Constitution. Sckick
v. United States, 195 U. S.65, 70; Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall.
3, 121; Schaezlein v. Cabaness, 135 California, 466. See also
Yick 11'o v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.356;.Baltimore v. Radecke, 49
Maryland, 217; Railroad Co. v. Covmmonwealth, 99 Kentucky,
136; Railay Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866.
At conimon law the owner of a bridge charged with maintainig a uiisane was (ntitle(d io a jury trial on the question
whether the bridge was ai ul,reasona)le, obstr1ietin' toI
navigation. Rcyina v. BettN, 1 C(ox C. C. 211, 213; Rcgina v.
Burl, 11 Cox C. C. 399: Rex v.Ri.'.sell, ( Bar. & Cr. 566, 587,
595; Regina v.Russell, 3 El. & 131. 942, 950; Rex v. Tindalt,
G Ad. & El. 143.
The Federal courts have jurisdiction to review the decisions
tif the executive departments on questions of law or of mixed
law aid fact, though no right of review is expressly given by
statute. IVis. Cent. Ry. Co. v. Forsythe, 1.59 U. S. 46, 61,

MONONGAHELA BRIDGE v. UNITED STATES. 181
216 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

citing Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Shepley v. Cowan, 91
U. S. 330; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420; Doolan v. Carr,
125 U. S.. 618, 624; Lake Superior Ship Canal &c. Co. v.
Cunningham, 155 U. S. 354; School of Magnetic Healing v.
McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94, 108. To the same effect are Cosmos
Co. v. Gray Eagle Co., 190 U. S. 301, 314; Burfenning v. Ch.
& St. Paul Ry. Co., 163 U. S. 321, 323; Johnson v. Drew, 171
U. S. 93, 100; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 377, 401; Williantson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425, 462; United States v. Copper Co., 196 U. S. 207, 214.
As to what due process of law is see Webster's definition
in the Dartmouth College case adopted in, Hovey v. Elliott, 167
U. S. 418; Stitzel's Estate, 221 Pa. 230; Reynolds v. United
States, 98 U. S. 145, 154.
If the act of 1899 should be so construed as to authorize
the Secretary of War to apply his own rule in dete:mining
whether a bridge was an unreasonable obstruction to navigation, and that rule was different from the rule established
in the Escanaba Transportationcase, then the act of Congress
was unconstitutional because it vests in one and the same
person the legislative power to make the law and the judicial
power .to determine whether the defendant had violated the
law, and this is inconsistent with our theory of government.
Wong Wing v. United States, 163 U. S. 228, 237; Turner v.
Williams, 194 U. .S. 279, 291; Interstate Comm. Comm. v.
Brinson, 154 U. S. 447, 485.
The act of 1899 is unconstitutional.
It attempts to take and destroy the private property of
the Bridge Company without due process of law and to take
private property for public use without just compensation.
It undertakes to unlawfully delegate to the Secretary of
War and to the Chief of the Engineer Corps both legislative
and judi'ial powers.
If the statute is construed as was done in the court below
and the Secretary makes the law and then applies it to the
facts and finally decides, then it is unconstitutional, because

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

it does not furnish an ultimate resort to the courts for the
bridge owner whose bridge is threatened. Public Clearing
House, 194 U. S. 515. See cases. supra; Union Bridge Co. v.
United States, 204 U. S. 387, does not apply.
The power delegated by the act of 1899 is not merely executive. The Secretary acts in a judicial capacity on a mixed
question of fact and law. Mississippi R.R.v. Ward, 2 Black,
402; Woods on Nuisances, §§ 22, 493, 748.
This is a delegation by Congress to the Secretary of judicial
functions and is illegal. School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 108.
The power of Congress in its regulation of commerce is
limited by other clauses in the Federal Constitution. Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.312.
The word "taken" in the Fifth Amendment where the
proceedings arc under the interstate commerce clause, should
not receive a strict technical, narrow definition which enables
a great and wealthy nation to destroy the property of its
citizen without compensation. Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co.,
13 Wall. 177.
To compel the owner to spend money in the reconstruction
of his bridge, is taking his money as effectively as if the money
was actually taken by some officer of the Government. West
Chicago Ry.Co. v. Chicago, 201 U. S: 506.
The Government practically invited and acquiesced in the
construction of the bridge. The bridge became really apart of
a link in the National Pike which Congress built and over this
bridge went the traffic coming to it and as a part of that Pike.
It should not therefore be destroyed by the Government without compensation. Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S.312.
Pennsylvania has never complained that the Bridge Company had disregarded the terms of its charter forbidding
interference with navigation, and this, so far as the charter
is concerned, is conclusive on the United States. It was
erected in 1832, under the Act of the State, March 16, 1830,

MONONGAHELA BRIDGE v. UNITED STATES. 183
216 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

P. L. 102, within the power of the State to authorize the
structure. People v. Rensalear R. R. Co., 15 Wend. 113, 131;
Wilson v. Blackbird, 2 Pet. 250; Willamette Iron Bridge Co.
v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 2; Lake Shore Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 365;
Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713; Mobile v. Kimball, 102
U. S. 697.
The following conclusions should govern this case:
Neither the legislative nor the executive nor the judicial
departments may invade the other;
No one of these departments may delegate its power to the
other;
The legislative department makes the law; the judicial department construes the law, and the executive department
enforces the law.
To some extent the judicial not only construes but enforces, as against the individual, the law, and punishes the
individual for the violation of it;
The executive and the legislative departments are the political divisions of the Government, and in a general way
between them they have charge of all political questions concerning the policies of the nation and relations of the nation
to foreign powers, treaties with foreign powers, etc. The
judiciary has charge of the construction of all laws which
relate to the persons and the property of the individual citizen, and its chief purpose is the administration of justice, not
only as between the individuals who compose society, but
also as between governments (such as the United States and
the state government) and between the individual and the
State or the United States Government. Patton v. Brady, 184
U. S. 620; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 182.
The existence of a nuisance always involves a question of
law for the court. Mississippi R. R. v. Ward, 2 Black, 492;
Wood on Nuisances, §k 22, 493, 748.
If the act of 1899 be construed as giving to the Secretary of War the final power to pass upon and decide that
the bridge is an unreasonable obstruction, and denies to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for the United States.

216 U. S.

citizen the right of appeal to the courts, then it is void,
because it denies to the citizen due process of law, and destroys, if it does not take, his property, without due process
of law, and denies to the citizen the right of trial by jury
granted to him by-the Fcderal Constitution.
The question as to whether the bridge is an unreasonable
obstruction is one for the courts to determine on prosecution
under the act and if the owner of the bridge can in court
prove that it is not an unreasonable obstruction then the
prosecution fails and the refusal of the court to receive the
offer of the bridge owner to prove that the bridge was not an
unreasonable obstruction to navigation and no change in it
was necessary, is error.
Corporations are within Article III and the Amendments
of the Constitution. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209
U. S. 56, 73, 89; American Publishing Co. v. Fisher, 166 U. S.
464.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
This case falls directly within Union Bridge Company v.
United States, 204 U. S.364.
When the Bridge Company was chartered and when its
bridge was built, the Monongahela River was by statute a
navigable highway (Pa. Act of April 17, 1782). The Bridge
Company's charter contained the clause that "the erection of
said bridge shall not obstruct the navigation of said river so as
to endanger the passage of rafts, steam-boats or other water
craft"; and this obligation assumed by the company is absolute, whether or not the river was actually navigable when the
charter was granted or when the bridge was built. Similar
clauses, both as to bridges and as to railroads crossing over
the streets have invariably been interpreted as imposing a
continuing duty of not interfering with the use of the rivers
or streets at any time, however much that use may have
grown in amount or kind from what it was when the bridge or
railroad charter was granted.

MONONGAHELA BRIDGE v. UNITED STATES. 185
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The act of Congress of March 3, 1899, does not delegate
legislative or judicial power to the Secretary of War or take
private property without compensation. Union Bridge Co.
v. United States, supra, pp. 377-387.
Plaintiff in error had a full and fair hearing by the Secretary
of War, as required by statute. All proceedings, evidence and
arguments at the public hearing were transmitted to him and
his decision was given in view of all data presented by plaintiff
in error. Plaintiff in error did not request that it be permitted
to introduce further evidence or to offer further argument before the Secretary of War; and objection cannot now be made
to the course of the proceedings before the Secretary of
War, when no complaint concerning the character or extent
of the proceedings was made to the Secretary of War himself.
Nor is it true that the Secretary of War determined his
judgment as to the unreasonable obstructiveness of this
bridge by the application of erroneous tests of law. Instead,
the contrary must be presumed, for the record does not disclose what his processes of reasoning or grounds of decision
were. lie gave no opinion and made no findings, except his
general conclusion that the bridge is an unreasonable obstruetion of navigation.
The act of Congress makes the Secretary of War's decision
conclusive that the bridge is an unreasonable obstruction, and
plaintiff in error had no right to retry that question before
the jury in this proceeding for violation of the Secretary's
.order.
MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN'delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a criminal information by the United States under
§ 18 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3d, 1899, against
the President, Managers and Company of the Monongahela
Bridge Company, a Pennsylvania corporation.
That section is as follows: "That whenever the Secretary 6f
War shall have good reason to believe that any railroad or

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.,

216 U. S.

other bridge now constructed, or which may hereafter be constructed, over any of the navigable waterways of the United
States is an unreasonable obstruction to the free navigation of
such waters on account of insufficient height, width of span, or
otherwise, or where there is difficulty in passing the draw opening or the draw span of such bridge by rafts, steamboats, or
other water craft, it shall be the duty of the said Secretary, first
giving, the parties reasonable opportunity to be heard, to give
notice to the persons or corporations owning or controlling
such bridge so to alter the same as to render navigation through
or under it reasonably free, easy, and unobstructed; and in giving such notice he shall specify the changes recommended by
the Chief of Engineers, that are required to be made, and shall
prescribe, in each case, a reasonable time in which to make
them. If at the end of such time the alteration has not been
made, the Secretary of War shall forthwith notify the United
States District Attorney for the district in which such bridge
is situated, to the end that the criminal proceedings hereinafter mentioned may be taken. If the persons, corporation,
or association owning -or controlling any railroad or other
bridge shall, after receiving notice to that effect, as hereinbefore required, from the Secretary of War, and within the time
prescribed by him, wilfully fail or refuse to remove the same, or
to comply with the lawful order of the Secretary of War in the
premises, such persons, corporation, or association shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars;
and every month such persons, corporation, or association
shall remain in default in respect to the removal or alteration
of such bridge shall be deemed a new offense, and subject the
persons, corporation, or association so offending to the penalties above prescribed: Provided, That in any case arising under
the provisions of this section an appeal or writ of error may be
taken from the district courts or from the existing circuit
courts direct to the Supreme Court either by the United States
or by the defendants." 30 Stat. 1121, 1153, e. 425.

MONON6AHELA BRI)GE v. UNITED STATES. 187
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The jury returned a verdict of guilty and a motion in arrest
of judgment was made upon various grounds, the principal one
being that the section of the above act of 1899 was unconstitu•tional, null and void. That motion was denied, and a motion
for new trial having been overruled, the defendant was adjudged to pay to the United States a fine of $1,000 and the
costs of prosecution. From that judgment the case comes directly to this court under the authority of the proviso in the
above act. Section 18.
It is essential to a clear understanding of the questions
raised by the Bridge Company that we state certain facts disclosed by the record.
The Bridge Company was incorporated under an act passed
by the General Assembly of Pennsylvania in 1830; and in 1833,
by authority of that Commonwealth, it constructed the bridge
in question over the Monongahela River. The structure is
known as the Brownsville Bridge between the towns of West
Brownsville and Bridgeport. The charter of the company
provided, among other things, that "the- erection of said
bridge shall not obstruct the navigation of said river so as to
endanger the passage of rafts, steamboats or other water
craft." Penn. Laws, 1829-30, p. 105.
On the twenty-ninth of April, 1903, the Secretary of War,
Mr. Root, was petitioned by numerous companies and individuals to have an investigation made of the bridge "as to its
obstruction of navigation," and if it was found to be an obstruction of that character, "to have the means provided to
compel it to be raised or equipped in such a way to relieve river
people from the obstruction, making the height necessary to
allow free navigation." The petition proceeded: "The coal in
pools one, two, three and four below Brownsville has been
practically exhausted and the Pittsburg district will, at no

distant date, be forced to get its supply above Brownsville in
-the Fifth -Pool. The petitioners recognize how impossible it
will be to build or improve lock No. 3 unless the elevation of
the Brownsville bridge be made at once." This petition was

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

referred by the Chief of Engineers to Major Sibert of the Corps
of. Engineers for investigation and report. The latter officer
reported, among other facts, that

".

.

4. The- height

of this bridge is such that the average of the boats engaged in
interstate commerce between the States referred to above
[Pennsylvaiia and West Virginia] are prevented from passing
under the bridge at a stage of water materially less than that
which floods the walls of the locks of the Monongahela River.
5. A bridge that prevents the use of the locks owned by the
Government of the United States until the same are placed out
of service by means of high water is, in the opinion of this
office, an unreasonable obstruction to navigation.
7: This bridge is an old coveredwooden bridge, constructed
some time betwen 1830 and 1840: 8. In the opinion of this
office this bridge is one that certainly requires action under spc'tion 18, River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899. 9. It is therefore respectfully recommended that it be proceeded against in
the manner specified under the law referred to above, both on
account of insufficient height and length of span, and that, in
the notice for a hearing in the case of this bridge the changes
proposed be such as to give a least clearance 52 feet under a
channel span of 400 feet wide; the length of side spans to be
determined from the developments at.the hearing. It iscon*sidered that one and one-half years is a reasonable time in
which to make the necessary changes in this bridge." The
Chief of Enginders endlorsed that report and recommended
that the papers be returned to.Major Sibert, with instructions
to hold a public hearing, after due notice to interested parties,
as required b3i the law and the orders of the War Department.
Under date of May 23d, 1904, Major Sibert made a report to
the Chief of Engineers, from which it appears that the parties
interested were given a hearing, all parties being present.
That report stated: "3. These hearings, as this office understands it, were held for the purpose of securing and forwarding
s§uch information as would enable the Secretary of .War to
decide whether or not there is good reason to believe that the

MONONGAtJELA
216 U. S.

3RIDGE v. UNITED STATES. 189

Opinion of the Court.

bridge in question is an unreasonable obstruction to navigation. 4. Stripped of all unnecessary verbiage the question for
determination is: Is there good reason to believe that a bridge
that prevents the better class of towboats actually navigating
the Monongahela River, the commerce of which stream is
about 10,000,000 tons annually, from passing under it for
17.7 days per year and prevents the packets actually navigating said stream from passing under it for 52.1 days per year,
all as determined by the official records kept by the United
States, an unreasonable obstruction to navigation? The above
days are days that the boats in question cannot pass under the
bridge but can pass through the locks that the Government of
the United States has provided for their use. Would a railroad company consider that there was good reason to believe
that its traffic was unreasonably obstructed by another hAghway if its passenger and express business were absolutely
stopped for 52.1 days per year and its freight business so
stopped for 17.7 days per year, when the same could be overcome at a reasonable cost to the obstructing highway, which
latter highway was the last built?

.

.

.

This office is of

the opinion that the following should constitute the grounds
upon which a conclusion should be reached as to whether or
not any particular bridge unreasonably obstructs navigation:
1st. Every bridge should be so constructed as to permit the
passage under it or through it, with reasonable safety, of the
average sized boat actually navigating the stream, at all practical stages of water. 2nd. Any. bridge that does not perrnit
the passage of such boat at such stages of water needlessl obstructs the use of the river highway and exists under conditions that are not reasonable, since it is inipracticable to raise
or lower a stream and it is always practicable to either build a
bridge high enough and of sufficient width of span to allow the
passage of such boats at such times as mentioned above or to
place a draw in the bridge. 3rd.. Where the topographical conditions are such that bridges 6an be made of such heights, without prohibitive cost, as to permit at all'navigable stages.of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

water the passage of boats best suited to the riyer commerce, it
is for the best interest of both the land traffic and the river
traffic that bridges be so constructed.

.

.

. Based upon

the foregoing, the essential features of which are the facts that
towboat navigation with the better class of boats actually in
use is prevented for 17.7 days of the year from passing under
this bridge when the same could pass through the locks Congress has provided for such navigation, and that the packets
actually navigating this stream are prevented from passing
under this bridge at such time for 52.1 days in the year, and
from the fact that Congress has specified in the two acts passed
in the present year that a least clearance of 54 feet is needed
for the navigation of this pool, whereas the bridge in question
has only 40.2 feet, this office is of the opinion that there is good
reason to believe that the bridge owned by the Monongahela
Bridge Company, at Brownsville', Pa., is an unreasonable obstruction to navigation, and therefore respectfully recommends that The Monongahela Bridge Company, (George W.
Lenhart, President, Brownsville, Pa.), be given notice to make
the following changes in its bridge crossing the Monongahela
River at Brownsville, Pa., on or before August 1, 1905, to wit:
That the bridge be so altered as to give a channel span of not
less than 390 feet in length between the face of the right abutment as now located and the center of the pier; and that the
said channel span shall give a clearance height at the left, or
pier, end, of not less than 52 feet, and at the right, or abutment,
end of not less than 54 feet above the fourth pool of the
Monongahela River. This will permit of the construction of
the bridge in accordance with plan as shown in Sheet 3, Exhibit B, submitted by the Bridge Company."
The Chief of Engineers concurred in the views expressed and
conclusions reached by Major Sibert, and recommended that
notice be served accordingly.
Subsequently, August 10th, 1904, the Secretary of War,
Mr. Taft, issued the following official notice, addressed to the
Bridge Company:

MONONGAHELA BRIDGE v. UNITED STATES. 191
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

- "Whereas, the Secretary of War has good reason to believe that the bridge of the Monongahela Bridge Company
across the Monongahela River, at Bridge Street in the Borough of Bridgeport, Pennsylvania, and commonly known as
the Brownsville Bridge, is an unreasonable obstruction to the
free navigation of the said Monongahela River (which is one
of the navigable waterways 'of the United States) on account
of insufficient height and length of span,; And whereas, the
following alterations, which have been recommended by the
Chief of Engineers, are required to render navigation under
it reasonably free, easy and unobstruct6d, to wit: So alter said
bridge as to give a channel span of not less than 390 feet in
length between the face of the right abutment as now located
and the center of the pier; and that the said channel span
shall give a clearance height of not less than 52 feet, above
the Fourth Pool of the Monongahela River; and whereas, to
August 1, 1905, is a reasonable time in which to alter the said
bridge as described above: Now, therefore, in obedience to,
and by virtue of, section eighteen of an act of Congress of the
United States entitled 'An act- making appropriations for
the construction, repair, and preservation of certain public
works on rivers and harbors, and for other purposes,' approved March 3, 1899, I, William H. Taft, Secretary of War,
do hereby notify the said Monongahela Bridge Company to
alter the said bridge as described above, and prescribe
that said alterations shall be made and completed on or
before August 1, 1905." This notice was duly served August 15th, 1904, on the Bridge Company, and the company
failed to comply with the direction given by the Secretary of
War.
Thereupon the present information was filed charging the
Bridge Company with having willfully failed, refused and
neglected to comply with the above order of the Secretary
of War.
In view of this statement, an extended examination of the
authorities would seem to be unnecessary; for, substantially

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

all the material questions raised on this writ of error are, we
think, concluded by former decisions cited in the margin.'
This court has heretofore held upon full consideration and
after an examination of the adjudged cases:
1. That § 18 of the River and Harbor -Act of March 3, 1899,
30 Stat. 1151, ould not reasonably be taken as a delegation
of legislative and judicial power to an Executive Department
of the Government; that the statute did not in any real, constitutional sense delegate to the Secretary of War any power
that must, under our system of government, be exclusively
exercised either by the legislative or judicial branch of the Government; that under its paramount power to regulate commerce
on and over the navigable waters of the United States Congress
could require that such waters be freed from unreasonable obstructions to navigation; that the statute in effect prescribed
the general rule, applicable to all navigable waters, that free
navigation should not be hampered by unreasonable obstructions arising from bridges of insufficient height, width of span
or other defects; that instead of exerting its power by direct
legislation in each case of a bridge alleged to constitute an unreasonable obstruction to navigation, Congress charged the
Secretary of War with the duty of ascertaining, in each case,
upon notice to the parties concerned, whether the particular
' Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; The Brig Aurora,
7 Cranch, 382; Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1; Field v. Clark, 14:3
U. Sw.640; C. W. &c. R.R. v. "Com'rs,1 Ohio St. 77; Moers v. City of
Reading, 21 Pa. St. 188,; Locke's Appeal, 72 Pa. St. 491, 498; Buttfield
v. Stranahan, 192 U. S.470; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Gibson v.
United Stares, 166 U. S. 269; Scranton v. Wheeler 179 U. S. 141;
N. O.. GasLight Co. v. Drainage Corn., 197 U. S. 453; C., B. & Q. R.R.
Co. v. DrainageCon'rs,200 U. S.561; West Chicago Street R.R.Co. v.
Chicago, 201 U, S. 506; Dugan v. Bridge Co., 7 Pa. St. 303; Cooke v.
Boston & Lowell R. R., 133 Massachusetts, 185; Lake Erie & Western
R. R.Co.',.v. Cluggish, 143 Indiana, 347; Lake &c. Western R. R. Co.
v. Smith, 61 Fed. Rp. 885; State of Indiana v. Lake Erie & Western
R. R. Co., 83 Fed. Rep. 284, 287; St. Louis & Iron Mountain R. R. Co.
v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281; Northern Pacific R.R.Co. v. Duluth, 208 U. S.

583.

MONONGAHELA BRIDGE v. UNITED STATES. 193
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bridge came within the general rule prescribed; that any other
method was impracticable in view of the vast and varied interests of the Nation requiring legislation from time to time;
that the Secretary of War, proceeding under the act of 1899,
could not be said to exercise strictly legislative or judicial
power any more than when, upon investigation the Head of
a Department ascertains, under the direction of Congress,
whether a particular applicant for a pension belonged to a
class of persons who, under a general rule prescribed by Congress, were-entitled to pensions; and that a deriial to Congress
of authority, under the Constitution, to delegate to an Executive Department or officer the power to determine some fact
or some state of things upon which the enforcement of its
enactment may depend, would often render it impossible or
impracticable to conduct the public business, and to successfully carry on the operations of the Government.
2. That the act of 1899 did not invest the Secretary of War
with arbitrary power in the premises, since in reference to
any bridge alleged to constitute an unreasonable obstruction
to navigation he was bound, before making any decision or
taking final action, to notify the parties interested of any
proposed investigation by him, give them an opportunity to
be heard, and allow reasonable time to make such alterations
as he found to be necessary to free navigation.
3. That to require alterations or changes in a particular
bridge, within a specified time, and after the parties have
been heard, was not such a taking of private property for
public use as nmust, under the Constitution, be preceded by the
making of or sufficiently securing compensation to the owners
of the bridge.
Although the Brownsville Bridge was originally constructed
under the authority of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
and may not, at the date of its erection, have been an illegal
structure or an unreasonable obstruction to navigation in the
condition, at that time, of commerce and navigation on the
Monongahela River, the bridge must be taken as having been
VOL. ccxvi-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

constructed with knowledge, on the part of all, of the paramount power of Congress to'regulate commerce among the
States, and subject to the condition or possibility that Congress might, at some time after its construction, and for the
protection or benefit of the public, exert its constitutional
power to protect free navigation as it then was against unreasonable obstructions; that the mere silence of Congress and
its failure to directly ipterfere and prevent the original construction of the bridge, under the authority of Pennsylvania,
imposed no constitutional obligation on the United Stat(es to
make compensation for subsequent changes or alterations,
which the public good, in its judgment, re(uire(l to be made.
Tliw adjudged cases fully sustain the judgment of the court
below. We are asked to (onsider whether the opinion in
Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. :464-the case
upon which the Government mainly relies-should not be
modified. \We perceive no reason for so doing. We adhere
to what.was said in that case.
It is urgently insiste(d that the lefenlalt did not have such
a hearing as it was entitled to have under the law on the (lU(stion whether the bridge was in fact an unrueasonable obstruction to navigation. This is a mistake. The Bridge Company
had full notice of the action of the Engineer officer, who,
under the order of the Secretary of War, made a tentative
examination of the facts, and it appeared at the regular, final
hearing before that officer, with liberty to contest the tacts
and introduce any evidence pertinent to the case. It does
not appear that it offered any evidence that was rejected. It
was notsubjected to any mode ofprocedure that iiterfered
in any degree with a full and fair disclosure of the material
facts. The Engineer officer, after-the hearing before himthe Bridge Compafly being represented at the hearing-found
that the bridge was an unreasonabe obst ruction to navigation.
He reported to the Secretary of War all the facts that, were,
adduced before him and which constituted the basis-of his
conclusion. And the decision of the Secretary was bascd on

MONONGAHELA BRIDGE v. UNITED STATES. 195
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the facts so reported to him. That it must be assumed on
this record. It does not appear that the Secretary disregarded
the facts, or that he acted in an arbitrary manner, or that he
pursued any method not contemplated by Congress. it was
not for the jury to weigh the evidence and determine, according to their judgment, as to what the necessities of navigation
required, or whether the bridge was an unreasonable obstruction. The jury might have differed from the Secretary. That
was immaterial; for Congress intended by its legislation to
give the same force and effect to the decision of the Secretary
of War that would have been accorded to direct action by it
on the subject. It is for Congress, under the Constitution, to
regulate the right of navigation by all appropiate means, to
declare what is necessary to be done in order to free navigation from obstruction, and to prescribe the way in which the
question of obstruction shall be determined. Its action in
the premises' cannot be revised or ignored by the courts or
by juries, except that when it provides for an investigation
of the facts, upon notice and after. hearing, before final ac,tion is taken, the courts can see to it that Executive officers
conform their action to the mode prescribed by Congress.
Learned counsel for the defendant suggests some extreme
cases, showing how reckless and arbitrary might be the action
of Executive officers proceeding under an act of Congress,
the enforcement of which affects the enjoyment or value of
private property. It will be time enough to deal with such
cases as and when they arise. Suffice it to say, that the courts
have rarely, if ever, felt themselves so restrained by technical
rules that they could not find some remedy, consistent with
the law, for acts, whether done by government or by individual persons, that violated natural justice or were hostile to
the fundamental principles devised for the protection of the
essential rights of property.
We find no error of law in the record,' and the judgmenu,
must be affirmd.
It is so ordered.
MR. Jus'rict: Imvi i; dissents.

