OCTOBER TEIAM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

like this, would require us to hold that the decision that there
was probable cause was void as not based upon any evidence.
Final order affirmed.
BREWER, J.,

concurring.

I concur in affirming the orders of removal in these cases,
but my concurrence must not be taken as holding that the indictments will stand the final test of validity or sufficiency.
Assuming that there is a doubt in respect to these matters, as
I think there is and as seems to be suggested by the opinion in
No. 367, I am of the opinion that such doubt should be settled
by direct action in the court in which the indictments were returned, and not in removal proceedings.
MR. JUSTICE, MCKENNA concurs in the result, but reserves
opinion whether the facts alleged in the indictment constitute
a conspiracy to defraud the United States.

WILLIAM CRAMP AND SONS SHIP AND ENG1NE
BUILDING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 92.

Argued January 19, 20, 1910.-Decided February 28, 1910.

Executive officers are not authorized to entertain and settle claims
for unliquidated damages.
The Secretary of the Navy had power under the acts of June 10, 1896,

c. 361, 29 Stat. 378, authorizing the building of the "Alabama,".and
of August 3, 1886, c. 849, 24 Stat. 215, to make a change in the
terms of the contract requiring a final release to be given so that

such release should not include claims arising under the contract
which he did not have jurisdiction to entertain, and under a proviso
in the release to that effect the contractors are not barred from

WM. CRAMP & SONS v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

495

Argument for Appellant.

prosecuting their claim before the Court of Claims for unliquidated
damages.
In this case a provision in a government contract having been treated
by both parties as impracticable and therefore waived, the Secretary had power to change the terms of the release required by the
contract, and leave the claims of the contractor to be presented to
the Court of Claims. Cramp & Sons v. United States, 206 U. S.
11S, distinguished.
Under the Tucker Act the Court of Claims has jurisdiction of a claim
for unliquidated damages under'a contract for building a war ves-:
sel, where a release had been given by the Secretary of the Navy
with a proviso that it does not include-claims arising under the
contract other than those of which the Secretary has jurisdiction.
43 C. Cl. 202, reversed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James H. Hayden, with whom Mr. Robert C. Hayden
was on the brief, for appellant:
The contract did not obligate the claimant to relinquish
the claim in suit, or any other claims that might accrue to it
for breach of the contract by the United States. The contract itself was .not a release of such claims. The acceptance
by the claimant ef the last payment did not create a bar to
the claimant's fight of action for the breach committed by
the United States.
Performance by the Government of its covenant to supply
armor failing, the builder's agreement to release went with it.

"If part of the consideration agreed on be not performed,
the whole accord fails." City of Memphis v. Brown, 20 Wall.
289; Bank v. Leech, 94 Fed. Rep. 310; 1 Smith's Leading
Cases, 5th Am. ed., 445.
The elaborate and tautological expressions contained in the
fifth paragraph of the release do not overcome the particular
words of limitation, contained in the proviso, which limited
the operation of the release to claims which the Secretary of
the Navy had jurisdiction to entertain. Texas &c. R. Co.
v. Dashiell, 198 U. S. 521.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

The Secretary of the Navy.and the Cramp Company were
correct in the opinion expressed by the former and acquiesced
in by the latter that the claim being one for unliquidated
damagesis of a kind the Dep)artment las no authority under
the law to entertain. By the saving clause which was finally
included in the release they adopted apt words to carry out
their purpose to leave the claim in suit open and unsettled.
Executive officers of the Government cannot entertain such
claims, even when they grow out.of contracts made by them.
Op. Atty. Gen., e(Ld1841, 882. See also McKee v. Urited
States, 12 C. Cl. 514, 555; Power v. United States, 18 C. Cl.
263, 275; McClure v. United States, 19 C. Cl. 18, 28; Brannen
v. United States, 20 C. Cl. 219, 223; Pneumatic Gun Carriage
Co. v. United States, 36 C. Cl. 627, 630.
To give the release or the claimant's acceptance of the
last payments the effect claimed for them by the Government and given them by the court below, would be to use
them in a way not justified by the terms of the release, or
intended by the parties, and would allow the Government
to commit a fraud. Parmlee v. Lawrence' 44 Illinois, 405, 409;
Fire Ins. Assn. v. Wickham, 141 U. S. 564, 576, 582. If the
terms of the release were obscure, which they are not, it
would have to be interpreted in such a way as to carry out
the intent of the parties, to be ascertained from the correspondence which pa:ssed between them. United States v.
Peck, 102 U. S. 64; Merriam v. United States, 107 U. S.437,
441; United States v. Gibbons, 109 U. S. 200, 203; Chicago &c.
R. Co. v. Denver &c. R. Co., 143 U. S..596, 609; Nash v.
Towne, 5 Wall. 689, 699.
The Secretary had legislative authority to make a contract
for the construction of the vessel in question and while this
was limited in some particulars it was broad. He was as free
to exercise his judgment in the modification' of the contract
as to.the release as he was to make tlIe contract in the beginning. United States v. Barlow, 184 U. S. 123; Solomon v.
United States, 19 Wall. 17; Rcdfield v. Windom, 137 U. S.

WM. CRAMP & SONS v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

636. This case is riot governed by United States y. Win.
Cramp & Sons, 206 U. S. 118, known as the "Indiana" case.
It was the builder's right and obviously it was for the best
interest of the United States, as well as its own, to proceed
with the work as best it could, complete it, and sue for damages caused by the breach. 2 Parsons on Contracts, 679;
Clark v. United States, 6 Wall. 543; United States v. Speed,
8 Wall. 77; United States v. Behan, 110 U. S.338, 344; Figh
v. United States, 8 C. Cl. 319; Myerle v. United States, 33
C. Cl. 1; Cornwall v. Henson, 2 Ch. (1900) 298, 300; Hudson
on Building Contracts, 1907, 303, 524; Stubbings Co. v.
Exposition Co., 110 Ill. App. 210; Nelson v. Pickwick Co.,
30 Ill. App. 333; Del Genovese v. Third Ave. R. R. Co., 13
N. Y. App. Div.. 412; 5. C., 162 N. Y. 614.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson and
Mr. Franklin W. Collins for the United States:
The proviso is not sufficient to confer upon appellant
right of recovery.
The failure of the delivery of the armor by the Government
within the times and in the order required to carry on the
work properly had been fully provided for in the contract in
other ways, and had nothing whatever to do either as consideration or otherwise with the release which was required
by the contract. While the contiract, itself may not be a
release of such claims as those in suit, it nevertheless provided
for a release of all claims growing out of the contract. Texas
&c. R. Co. v. Dashiell, 198 "U.S.521.
While the Secretary of the Navy may have power to direct
the modification of a contract during the progress of the
work he has not after his discretionary powers have ceasod
and only a plain ministerial duty remains. The Secretary
was clothed with authority to close the contract in a prescribed manner. He could not make the final payment until
a full and final release of all claims was given by the contractor, neither could he modify or change the form of release
VOL. ccxv-32

OCTOBER 'I'E1M, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

required by the contract, but this does not Conflict with the
exercise of his discretionary powers in respect to changes and
modifications while the work was in progress.
The courts will not assume to make a contract for the
parties which they did not choose to make for themselves.
Morgan County v. Allen, 103 U. S. 515; Hudson Canal Co.
v. Penna. Coal Co., 8 Wall. 276; Gavinzel v. Crump, 22 Wall.
308;, Robbins v. Rollins, 127 U. S. 633; Calliford v. Gonillo,
128 U. S. 158; nor is the court at liberty either to disregard
words used by the parties or to inseit words which the parties
have not made use of. Harrison v. Fortlaye, 161 U. S. 63;
Calderon v. Atlas Steamship Co.,'17(f U. S. 280.
Contracts are to be colstrued according) to the intention
of the parties as expressed therein, and the courts will dis-

regard the motives, the )ur)oses, or the expectations of a
party thereto if these are not in harmony with tdhe plain impoirt of the words used. See 54 Texas, 65; Clark v. Lilie,
34 Vermont, 405; Noyes v. Nichols, 28 Vermont, 159; Conn
v. Lewis, 15 Kentucky,66; Hildreth v. Forrest, 27 Kentucky,
217; Shullz v. Johnson, 44 Kentucky, 497; Salmon Falls Mfg.
Co. v. PortsmouthCo., 46 N. H. 249.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

On September 24, 1896, the appellant entered into a contract with the United States for the building of an ironclad,
The contract was auafterwards known as the "Alabama."
thorized by act of Congress of June 10, 1896, c. 399, 29 Stat.
361, 378. Under this act and that of August 3, 1886, c. 849, 24
Stat. 215, to which it refers, the Secretary of the Navy was
charged with the duty of supervising the contract on behalf of
the UnitedStates. After the completion of the vessel and the
payment of the stipulated amount there was something
asserted to be due to the building company as unliquidated
damages on account of extra work caused by the United
States, for which it brought suit in the Court of Claims. That

WM. CRAMP & SONS v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court found the amount to be $49,792.66. Relying upon the
decision of this court in a case between the same parties for
also the building of an ironclad, the "Indiana," United States
v. Win. Cramp & Sons Co., 206, U. S. 118, the Court of Claims
rendered judgment for the defendant. The controversy in
this, as in the prior case, turns upon the effect of a release. In
that it was in this form:
"The William Cramp and Sons Ship and Engine Building
Company, represented by me, Charles 11. Cramp, president
of said corporation, does hereby for itself and its successors
and assigns, and its legal representative, remise, release and
forever discharge the United States of and from all and all
manner of debts, dues, sum and sums of money, accounts,
reckonings, claims, and demands whatsoever, in law or in
equity, for or by reason of, or on account of, the construction
of said vessel under the contract aforesaid."
Here the same terms of release are used, but they are followed by this proviso:
"Provided, that this release shall not be taken to include
claims arising under the said 'contract other than those which
the Secretary of the Navy had jurisdiction to entertain."
That release was executed on May 18, 1896; this on April 19,
1901. We held that the former release settled all disputes
between the parties as to claims "under or by virtue" of the
contract. Evidently the proviso was incorporated with the
purpose of accomplishing some change in the effect of the
release. That purpose is disclosed by prior correspondence.
On February 13, 1901, the Secretary of the Navy, answering
a letter enclosing a claim for extra work of $66,973.23, writes:
"I have to state that while, from a casual consideration of
the matter, it might seem proper that the papers should be
referred to the bureaus concerned for examination and report,
it appears, after a careful consideration of the subject, that
the claim, being for unliquidated damages, is of a, kind the
department has no authority under the law to entertain."
To Which the company replied, suggesting this proviso:

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

"Provided, That nothing herein shall operate as a waiver of
this company's. right to suC for and recover judgment in the
Court of Claims for (lamages incurred or losses sustained by the
company in the pirosecution of the contract work which were
occasioned by delays or defaults on the part of the United
States"and adding, in response to the statement of the Secretary,
"that the claim being for unliquidated damages, is of a kind
the department has no authority under the law to entertain;"
that the act of March 3, 1.887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, known as
the "Tucker Act," vests the Court of Claims with jurisdiction
to hear and determine such claims. Some further correspondence followed between the parties, which culminated in a
letter from the company, enclosing the release as finally executed, and saying:
"This (release) contains a clause which excepts from the
operation of the release claims arising' under the contract,
which you, as Secretary of the Navy, had not jurisdiction to
entertain."
It is well understood that executive officers are not authorized to entertain and settle claims :for unliquidated damages.
Opinion of Attorney General Taney, in which he says:
"If the navy commissioners have refused to take the bread
from Mr. Stiles, according to their contract, when he had prepared it of tile quality called for by the agreement, it is not
in the power of the executive branch qf the Government to.
liquidate and pay the damages he may have sustained.. If
he has been damnified by the officers of the Government. Congress alo0 can redress the injury." (Opinions, ed. 1841, p.
882); McKee v. United States, 12 C. 0is. 504, 555-558.
In Power v. United States, IS C. Cls. 263, 275, the court thus
discussed the matter:
"The Secretary of the Interior concurred in the opinion that
the claimant was equitably entitled to damages, and that he
should be invited to furnish proof of the extent of his injury;
but did not agree that the damages could be adjusted in

WM. CRAMP & SONS v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

501

Opinion of the Court.

the department. He proposed to submit the case to Congress.
"In this conclusion that the department had no authority
to settle such a claim the Secretary was right. The laws
regulating the payment of money from the Treasury, in the
current business of the Government, are reviewed at length
by our brother Richardson in his opinion in McKee's Case,
12 Ct. Cl. R. 555. He shows clearly that the laws provide
only for the settlement and payment of accounts. An account
is something which may be adjusted and liquidated by an
arithmetical computation. One set of Treasury officers examino and audit the accounts. Another set is entrusted with
the power of reviewing that examination, and with the further
power of determining whether the laws authorize the payment
of the account when liquidated. But no law authorizes treasury officials to allow and pass in accounts a number not the
result of arithmetical computation upon a subject within the
operation of the mutual part of a contract.
".Claims for unliquidated damages require for their settlement the application of the qualities of judgment and discretion. They are frequently, perhaps generally, sustained by
extraneous proof, having no relation to the subjects of the
contract, which are common to both parties; as, for instance,
proof concerning the number of horses and the number of
wagons, and the length of time that would have been required
in performing a given amount of transportation. The results
to be reached in such cases can in no just sense be called an
account, and are not committed by law to. the control and decision of Treasury accounting officers.
"As is well said by Judge Richardson, in the opinion already
referred to (12 C. Cis. 556), this construction 'would exclude claims for unliquidated damages, founded on neglect or
breach of obligations or otherwise, and so, by the well-defined
and accepted meaning of the word 'account' and thA sense in
which the same and the words 'accounting' and.'accounting
officers' appear to be used in the numerous sections of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

numerous acts of Congress wherein they occur, it would seem
that the accounting officers have no jurisdiction of such claims
except in special and exceptional cases, in which it has been
expressly conferred upon them by special or private acts. And
such has been the opinion of five Attorneys General-all who
have officially advised the executive officers on the subject.
ALtorney General Taney, in 1832, whose opinion is referred to
by his successors illoffice; Attorney General Nelson in 1844
(4 Opins. 327); Attorney General Clifford in 1847 (4 Opins.
627); Attorney General Cushing in 1854 (6 Opins. 524); and
Attorney General Williams in 1872 (14 Opins. 24). And the
sarne views were expressed by this court in 1866 (Carmackel'al.
v. United States, 2 Ct. Cl. R. 126, 140.)' McClure v. United
States; 19 Id. 28-29; Brannen v. United States, 20 Id. 219, 223224; 4, Opin. Attorneys General, 327-328; Id. 626, 630."
But it is contended that the contract, independently of
the release, provided for a settlement, of all matters growing
out of the delay in the completion of the vessel; although this
is in apparent conflict with the opening statement of the Gover nent in its brief, for there it says: "The issue here is
whether the proviso in that release saves the contractor from
Hie final and complete surrender of his right to recover on the
(laims set out in the petition." But this, although it indicates the views of the.Government of the question at issue,
does not preclu(e it from presenting other matters, and it
insists that by the third clause in the contract, the vessel,
when completed without the armor, was to be subjected to
a trial provided for in a subsequent clause of the contract,
anod a boa-rd of iiaval officers appointed by the Secretary of the
Navy was to determine the deduction from the total price
of the vessel under the contract if completed with armor. It
further contenl., that by the ninth clause of the contract the
matter of possible delay was recognized by the Secretary of
the Navy, and his deternination as to the effect thereof was
to be conclusive. Now it may be said that both the contractor and the Government had the right to insist upon the

WVM. CRAMP & SONS v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

503

Opinion of the Court.

delivery of the vessel when it was completed without the armor,
and that the deduction in price should then be settled by the
board of officers appointed by the Secretary. It may also be
conceded that the Government 'could have insisted upon a
release in the form specified in the contract, but neither the
company nor the Government insisted on the delivery of the
vessel at the time it was launched and )efore it was armored.
The Government left the vessel with the company, waiting for
armor to be put on-armor which it had not then been able
to secure and tender to the company, and when the question arose as to a settlement it did not insist upon a release as
specified in the contract. This contract was plainly treated
by both parties as iml)racticable, and therefore waived. Evidently from his letter of February 13, 1901, the Secretary was
of the opinion that, equitably, there was something due to
the company, and yet, realizing that that question was not
one for his determination, in order that full justice might be
done, he consented to a change in the terms of the release, and
this he had power to do. Salomon v. United States, 19 Wall.
17; United States ex rel. Redfield v. Windom, 137 U. S. 636;
United States v. Barlow, 184 U. S. 123, 135.
By the "Tucker Act" jurisdiction is conferred upon the Court
of Claims "to hear and determine . . . all claims
for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding
in tort."
It results therefrom that a release executed in accordance
with "the terms of the contract would have extinguished all
claims of the company against the United States growing
out of the contract (206 U. S, 118); that the Secretary of the
Navy had no power to pass upon and adjudicate claims for
unliquidated damages; that he had power to accept a release
such as was given, and that the proviso left for determination
in the courts claims for unliquidated damages growing out of
the contract; that under the Tucker Act the Court of Claims
had jurisdiction to inquire into and determine claims for
unliquidated damages, and that upon the facts found there

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

is due to the company from the United States for extra work
caused by the United States the sum of $49,792.66.
The judgment -of the Court of Claims is reversed and the case
remanded to that court, with instructions to enter judgnwnt
for that amount,

J. J. McCASKILL COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR 'THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 103. Argued January 25, 1910.-Decided February 28, 1910.
In this case it was held that the averments set forth in the bill of
fraud and perjury in ex parte proceedings before the land office were
sufficient to give a c-ourt of equity jurisdiction of a suit brought by
the United States to cancel a lpatent.
In this case the testimony sustained the averments of the bill that the
patent was obtained by fraud.
The rule that courts will not review decisions of the Land Department
on questions of fact or reverse discretion properly exercised does
not prevent the courts from setting aside a patent obtained by fraud
upon the Department.
The presumption that a corporation is, in law, an entity distinct from
its stockholders and officers cannot be carried so far as to enable
the corporation to become a means of fraud; and knowledge of fraud
on the part of the officers, who are also the principal stockholders
and whose interests are identical, is properly to be imputed to the
corl)oration itself.
In this case the testimony of an agent of the General.Land Office as to
conversations and admissions made by the entryman, with knowledge that he was a government officer seeking the facts as to the
settlement of the land, was properly admitted, as was also the
report made by such officer who testified as to the facts recited
therein.
When testimony is admitted, but is not followed up by other testimony
necessary to give it effect, this court will assume that the court
below attributed to it no probative strength.

