OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

FORBES v. STATE COUNCIL OF VIRGINIA, JUNIOR
ORDER UNITED AMERICAN MECHANICS OF THE
STATE- OF VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO TIE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE' STATE OF
VIRGINIA.

No. 104.

Argued January 25, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

An attempt to introduce a Federal question into the record for the
first time by petition for rehearing is too late unless the state court
entertains and in fact passes upon it.
A denial of a petition for rehearing by the state court "after mature
consideration" does not amount to any more than a denial of the
motion, and does not show that the Federal question was considered
or passed on. It affords no basis for jurisdiction of this court on
writ of error.
Writ of 'error to review 107 Virginia, 853, dismissed.

TIiE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. V. Meredith, (with whom Mr. Preston Cocke, Mr.
E. B. King and Mr. Smith W. Bennett were on the brief, for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Samuel A. Anderson for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE l)A.y

dolivered'the opinion'of the court.

This case grows out of one heretofore in this court, National
Council of the .JuniorOrder of United American Mechanics of
the United States v. State Council, 203 U. S. 151.. In that case
this court affirmed a judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, which had affirmed a decree of the l6wer
court of that State. The effect of that decree was to enjoin

FORBES v. STATE COUNCIL OF VIRGINIA.
216 U. S.

397--

Opinion of the Court.

the, National Council of the Junior Order of United American
Mechanics of the United States, and certain persons, officers
of a voluntary association, from using in the State of Virginia
the corporate name of the State Council of the Virginia Junior
Order of United'American Mechanics of the State of Virginia,
or any other name likely to be taken for it, and from using
the seal of the said Virginia order, and from carrying out
under such name the objects for which the Virginia order and
the voluntary association had been organized, from granting
charters to subordinate cQuncils in the State* and from interfering in any way with the pursuance of its objects by the
Virginia 'order within the State, and from designating their
officers in the State by appellations set forth as used by the
plaintiff. After this decree, thus affirmed, had become final
in the Virginia state court, the plaintiffs in error proceeded
to obtain a charter under the name of the "Virginia Branch
of the National Council of the Junior Order United American
Mechanics," a name which they urged was dearly distinguishable from that of the State Council of Virginia Junior
Order United Amnerican Mechanics of the State of Virginia,
protected by the original decree. Having taken out the
charter by the name aforesaid, the plaintiffs in error were
prosecuted for contem pt of court in violating the original
decree. Upon hearing in the Chancery Court an order was
entered finding, the plaintiffs in error to be in contempt, and
-a fine of'$20 wag imposed. on each of them, and the same was
ordered to be paid to the. lerk of the court within thirty-five
days, and in default thereof each of thef plaintiffs in error to
stand, committed to the custody of the sheriff, to remaiin in
jail until the said sum be paid by them respectively.
A writ of error was allowed by the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia to this'order of the Chancery Court. In the
Supreme Court of Appeals a motion was made to dismiss the
:writ of error as having been improvidently granted. Upon
:consideration the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia sus.tained tlat motion upon the ground that it'had no jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

to review the judgment complained of, arid dismissed the
writ of error accordingly. 107 Virginia, 853. The plaintiffs
in error seek to bring the case here upon the ground that the
ruling of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia denies
them due process of law, and deprives them of the equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States.
An inspection of the record shows that no claim of the rights
now asserted under the Federal Constitution was made until
thb petition for rehearing was filed after the judgment in the
state court of final resort. That petition embodies many objections to the opinion and judgment of the Supreme Court
of Appeals of Virginia not involving the Federal Constitution.
As to the Federal Constitution, it was set up that if the
Virginia statute, which provides that a writ of error shall lie
to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia to a judgment
for a contempt.of court other than for the non-performance
of, or disobedience to, a judgment, decree or order, was
applied to deny a review ini the pending case, it would violate
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, in that it attempts to deprive the plaintiffs in error of
a right.to a writ of error from the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia, as given under ยง 88 of the constitution of Virginia,
and thereby deprive plaintiffs in error of their liberty without
due~process of'law, and denied to them the equal protection
of the laws; that a denial by the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia of a writ of error under ยง 88 of the Virginia constitution, Which provides that the Supreme Court of Appeals
of Virginia shall have appellate jurisdirtion in all cases involving the life or liberty of any person, will be in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it would deprive them
of property without due process of law, and would deny to
them the equal protection of the laws.
In passing upon the petition for rehearing the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia said: "On mature consideration
of-the petition of the. plaintiff in error to set aside the judg-

FORBES v. STATE COUNCIL OF VIRGINIA.
216 U. S.

399

Opinion of the Court.

ment entered herein on January 16, 1908, and to grant a
rehearing of said cause, the prayer of said petition is denied."
It has been many times held in this court that an attempt
to introduce a Federal question into the record for the first
time by a petition for rehearing is too late. Loeber v. Schroeder,
149 U. S. 580, 585; Pim v. St. Louis, 165 U. S. 273.
There is an exception to this rule when it appears that the
court below entertained the motion for rehearing, and passed
upon the Federal- question. But it must appear that such
Federal question was in fact passed upon in considering the
motion for rehearing; if not, the general rule applies. Mallett
v. North Carolina, 181 U.. S. 589; Leigh v. Green, 193 U. S.
79; Corkran Oil Co. v. Arnaudet, 199 U. S. 182; McMillen v.
Ferrum, 197 U. S. 343; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212
U. S. 112, 118.
But, it is alleged, the memorandum which we have quoted
shows that the Virginia court must have considered and
passed upon the Federal question made in the petition for a
rehearing. Except that the order is said to be upon "mature"'
consideration, it is almost word for word the order on rehearing reviewed in McCorquodale v. Texas, 211 U. S.432, which
was held to amount to no more than a denial of the motion.
See 211 U. S.437. In that case the rule was again laid down
that it was too late to raise a Federal question upon a petition
for rehearing, unless the Federal question was passed upon in
ruling upon the petition.
It results that the writ of error in this case must be cdismissed.
Dismissed.

