OSBORN v. FROYSETH.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

OSBORN ET AL.,. TRUSTEES OF THE HASTINGS
AND DAKOTA RAIL\VAY CO. v. FROYSETH.
ERROR TO TIE SIPREME COUlRT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.

No. 395.

Submitted January 5, 1910."Decided March 14, 1910.

A re'jcction of a homestead entry on the ground-that the land was not
open for settlement does not defeat the entry if the Secretary had
no authority to withdraw the land from settlement. Sjoli v. Dreschel,
199 U. S. 564.

In an action of ejectment by a railroad company claiming lieu lands
under its grant, against a homesteader, the rule applies that tie
plaintiff must re(cover on his legal title and not upon defects in
defendant's entry; the question is whether the entry was properly
initiated before the selecti6n and not whether it had actually ripened
into legal title..
In a contest between a bona fide homesteader and one claiming under
selection of lieu land the former has the better claim. '
The right of a homesteader settling in good faith relates back to the
(late of settlement.
Where a railroad company fails to comply with the statutory requirements in order to authorize selection of lieu lands in the indemnity limits, and its selection is rejected, a subsequent selection
does not relate back, but preimption or homestead rights duly
initiated before the second selection have priority.
Land that is actually occupied by a qualified'entryman with intent
to claim it as a homestead, ceases to be public and subject to selection as lieu land, even though there be no record evidence at the
time the selection is made.
107 Minnesota, 568, affirmed.
THis

was an action of ejcctment to recover the southeast

quarter of section 7, township 119, range 40, in Chippewa
County, Minnesota. A jury was waived and the case tried
by the court, which made a finding of facts upon which judgment was entered for the defendant. Upon appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State this judgment was affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

107 Minnesota, 568. Thereupon, in due course, this writ of
error was sued out by the original plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs claimed title under a land grant made by
.Congress, July 4, .1,66, known as the Hastings and Dakota
Railway land grant. The premises are not within the place
limits of that grant, but are included within the indemnity
limits of the line of railroad as located, and were withdrawn
from settlement for the benefit of the grant on July 12, 1866,
and again by a modified order of April 22, 1868. On May 26,
1883, the Hastings and Dakota Railway Company, for whose
benefit the grant was made, and hereafter referred to as the
railway company, attempted to select the land in question,
together with other lands within the indemnity limits of the
grant, but the selection was rejected by the local land office
of the district. Upon appeal this action was affirmed by the
Secretary of the Interior on October 23, 1891. This attempted selection was refused, because not made in accordance with the rules of the Department, requiring, as a condi*tion precedent, that there should be furnished by the railroad
company a list of the lands lost within place limits for which
lands in lieu were selected. On July 22, 1890, under the
land grant adjustment act of March 3, 1887, c. 376, 24 Stat.
556, said land grant was adjusted in the Land Department
of the United States, and it was found that there existed a
deficiency in the place limits of the grant of 922,182 acres,
and that all of the lands within the indemnity limits applicable
to cover such loss aggregated less than 100,000 acres. On
May 28, 1891, pursuant to instructions from the Secretary
of the Interior, the Commissioner of the General Land Office
directed the officers of the proper local office that, after giving
notice, they should restore to the public domain and open to
settlement all the lands in the indemnity limits of said land
grant, "not embracing selections heretofore made and applied
for by said company."
After the final rejection, on October 23, 1891, of the original
selection made in 1883, the predecessor of the plaintiff in title

OSBORN v. 1'lROYSETII.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

made a second selection on October 29, 1891, of the land in
suit, together with other lands, which last selection was in
due form and in full compliance with the rules of the Department, and thereafter, through steps not necessary to be
stated, the title icquired by this second selection under said
grant was vested in the plaintiffs in error.
The tenth, eleventh and twelfth findings of fact are in these
words:
"Tenth. At the time of said selection the land in (tLestion
was not vacant, but was occupied by the defendant Peter
Froyseth, as hereinafter found.
"Eleventh. Said selection was not approved by the Secretary of the Interior until 1901.
"Twelfth. That the defendant, on the 1st day of November, 1888, declared his intention to become a citizen of the
United States, and was after said date in all respects qualified
and entitled to make a homestead entry under the laws of
the United States, and, on May 15th, 1889, he settled upon
and went into possession of the land in controversy, with
intent to enter upon and claim the same as a homestead; and
with the view of making it his home, and has continued in
possession and resided thereon ever since, and his residence
and improvements were at all times sufficient to comply
with the requirements of the homestead laws of the United
States, and at the time of the commencement of this action
such improvements exceeded in value the sum of seven
hundred dollars ($700); that the defendant has never owned
or occupied other real estate. That he became a full citizen
of the United States on June 9; 1897, and has been such
citizen ever since. On the 3d day of November, 1891, the
defendant offered, at the proper land office, a homestead
entry in due form for said land, which filing was, refused by
the local land officers solely on the ground that said land was
withdrawn from settlement by the executive withdrawal of
April 22d, 1868, from which refusal the defendant duly appealed, which appeal remained pending in the Land Depart-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

ment until September 11th, 1894, on which date the rejection
of said filing by the local land officers was affirmed. From
the decision of the General Land officers the defendant appealed to the Secretary of the Interior, which appeal was
pending until the 25th day of January, 1896, when the
decision of the General Land Office of September 11th, 1894,
was affirmed. That the defendant did all that was in his
power to secure the land as his homestead."
Mr. Aldi8 B. Browne and Mr. Alexander Britton for plaintiff in error.
Mr. C. A. Fousnes for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON,

after making the foregoing state-

ment of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts found show that on May 15, 1888, the defendant
in error, being in every way qualified, entered upon the land
in question with the intention of claiming it as a homestead,
and has ever since continued in possession, residing thereon
with his family, and that his improvements have at all times
been such as to comply with the homestead laws and exceeded in value seven hundred dollars when this action of
ejectment was started. On November 3,, 1891, he offered
at the proper land office a homestead entry, in due form,
for said land. This was rejected. -Upon appeal the decision
was affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior on September 11, 1894. But the facts found in the trial court, and upon
which the Supreme Court of Minnesota made its decision,
show that this entry was refused by the local land office
"solely on the ground that said land was withdrawn from
settlement by the executive withdrawal of April 22, 1868."
A rejection upon the ground stated was not authorized, for
the Secretary of the Interior had no authority to withdraw
from settlement lands within the indemnity limits of the
grant which had not been before selected and approved by

OSBORN v. FROYSET.H.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

him. Sjbli v. Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564, and cases cited. It
has been insisted that although the local land office rejected
the application for the reason stated, the affirmance, upon his
appeal, was because his homestead application, instead of
alleging that he had settled upon the land at some date prior
to the selection made by the railroad company on October 29,
1891, simply alleged, that "he resides on the described land."
This contention as to the gr6uiids of the affirmance is only
made out by the introduction now for the first time of the
decision of the Secretary of the Interior under date of January 25, 1896. But that simply affirms the decision of the
Commissioner made September 11, 1894, affirming the rejection made by the local land office, and gives no reason for
the affirmance. This decision is sought to be explained by
what purports to be a copy of an official communication under date of September 11, 1894, from the Commissioner to
the local land register and receiver, notifying him that his
rejection of a number of homestead entries, including that
of Froyseth, on the indemnity lands in question, had bee1 .
affirmed. Among other matters in that communication, it
is stated, "that none of the applicants allege that the lands
were settled upon either by themselves or others at the dAte
of the said selections in October, 1891, by the Hastings and
Dakota Company, nor do the records show that the lands
were otherwise than vacant and subject to such selection at
said date." If this be competent for our consideration upon
this writ of error, it being no part of the record, it does not
appear that the applicant was ever advised of this supposed
defect in his affidavit. The local office simply advised him
that its decision had been affirmed. The matter was remediable, as the fact was that his settlement was made months
prior to his application affidavit. But, assuming that the
application in its then form was defective, it is of no legal
consequence in determining the validity of the title of the
plaintiff in error. This was a plain common-law action of
ejectment. The plaintiff must recover, if at all, upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

legal title. That the defendant's application for a homestead has not yet ripened into a legal title is of no moment
if the plaintiffs are unable to show a omplete and superior
legal title. The plain effect of the settlement made upon the
land )ere in controversy before any valid selection of the
same land by the. railroad company, under its grant, Was to
initiate a.homestead right. That settlement and possession
continued from the time it was first made, and when, in
October, 1891, the Hastings and Dakota. Railroad, or its
successors in title, attempted to select that land as indemnity
land, the land in question was in the actual occupancy of
Froyseth claiming it as a homestead. It had, by such settlement, been segregated from the lands subjec't to selection,
and in a contest between such a homesteader and those claiming under selections subsequently made of lieu lands the
claim of the former is the better claim. Under the act of
May 14, 1880 (ch. 89, 21 Stat. 141, ยง 3), the right of one,
settling in good faith for the purpose of claiming a homestead,
relates back to the (late of settlement." Nelson v. Northern
Pacific Railway, 188 U. S. 108; Sjoli v. Dreschel, 199 U. S.
564; St. Paul &c. R. Co. v. Donohue, 210 U. S. 21. But it is
urged that the original selection made May 26, 1883, was
valid, and operated to vest the title as of that date in the
railroad company. Thcre is nothing peculiar in the act of
July 4, 1866, which protected indemnity lands against settlement upon the. filing of a map showing definite location of the
railroad. The grant was one of every alternate section, of
land, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of five
alternate sections per mile on each side of the road. Then
follows the indemnity provision, in these words (July 4, 1866,.
c. 168, 14 Stat. 87):
"But in case it shall appear that the United States have,
when the lines or route of said roads are definitely located,
sold any section, or part thereof, granted as afoyesaid, or that
the right of preemption or homestead settlement has attached
to the same, or that the same has been reserved by the United

OSBORN v. FROYSETH.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States for any purpose whatever, then it shall be the duty
of the Secretary of the Interior to cause to be selected, for the
purpose aforesaid, from the public lands of the United States,
nearest to the tiers of sections above specified, so much land
in alternate sections or parts of sections designated by odd
numbers, as shall be equal to such lands as the United States
have sold, reserved, or otherwise appropriated, or to which
the right of homestead settlement or preemption has attached,
as aforesaid, which lands, thus indicated by odd numbers and
sections, by the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall
be held by," etc.
The rejection by the Secretary of the Interior of the selection made in 1883 is fatal to any claim now made to carry
back the title of the plaintiff in error to that selection. The
right to any land within the indemnity limits of the grant,
as has been often decided, depended upon the inquiry whether
deficiencies had been established within the place limits, and
also whether the lands selected in place of such lost lands were
at the time subject to such appropriation. Thus, if either
preemption or homestead rights had been initiated before such
selection, the parcels to which such right had attached were
not subject to appropriation as indemnity lands. The function of the Secretary of the Interior was therefore judicial and
not ministerial. Wisconsin RailroadCompany v. PriceCounty,
133 U. S. 496, 512. In the case cited above this court said:
"Until the selections were approved there were no seleclions in fact, only preliminary proceedings taken for that
purpose; and the indemnity lands remained unaffected in
their title. Until then, .the lands which might be taken as
indemnity were incapable of identification; the proposed
selections remained the property of the United States. The
Government was, indeed, under a promise to give the company indemnity lands in lieu of what might be lost by the
causes mentioned. But such promise passed no title, and,
until it was executed, created no legal interest which could
be enforced in the courts. The doctrine, that until selection
VOL. ccxvi-37

578,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

made no title vests in any indemnity lands, has been recognized in several decisions of this court. Thus, in Ryan v.
RailroadCo., 99 U. S. 382, 386, in considering a grant of land
by Congress, in aid of the construction of a raili'oad similar
in its general features to the one in this case, the court said:
'Under this statute, when the road was located and the maps
were made, the right of the company to the odd sections first
named became ipso facto fixed and absolute. With respect
to the 'lieu lands,' as they are called, theright was only a
float, and attached to no specific tracts until the selection was
actually made in the manner prescribed.' And again, speaking of a deficiency in the land granted, it said. 'It was within
the secondary or indemnity territory where that deficiency
was to be supplied. The railroad company had not and, could
not have any claim to it until specially selected, as it was for
that purpose.'
In Sioli v. Dreschel, 199 U. S. 564, 566, this court said:
"That up to the time such approval is given, lands within
indemnity limits, although embraced by the company's list
of selections, are subject to be disposed of by the United
States or to be settled upon and occupied Under the preemption and homestead laws of the United States."
But it is-urged that the mere fact that there was no record
evidence of the homestead claim when the selections of 1891
were made was enough to give efficacy to that selection and
vest tl e legal title under the patents thereafter issued. But
this is answered by what we have already said, namely, that
if at that date this land was actually occupied by one qualified
under the law, who had entered and settled thereon before
that time, with the intent to claim it as a homestead, 'the
land had ceased, to be public land hnd as such subject to
selection as lieu land.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Minnesota, and it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER did not sit in this case.

