OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

HARRIS, TRUSTEE, v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF
MT. PLEASANT.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
•THE

No. 98.

EASTERN I)ISTRICT

OF TEXAS.

Argued January 21, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Quwvre, and not. decided, -whether under § 70e of the Bankruptcy Act
the suits therein referred to can be brought in the bankruptcy
.court without the consent of the defendant. See contrary views
expressedin Hull v. Burr, 153 Fed. Rep. 945; Hurley v. Devlin, 149
Fed. Rep. 268..
Section 70e of the Bankruptcy Act provides for avoiding transfer of
the bankrupt's property which his creditors might have avoided,
and for rccocry of such property, or its value from persons not
bonafide holders for value. It does.not, either with or without consent of defendant, give the bankruptcy court jurisdiction of a suit
to recover propqrty held by defendant but which, if the allegations
of the complaint are true, belonged to the bankrupt and passed to
the trustee.
The bankruptcy court has not jurisdiction of a suit against a bank to
recover securities held by it for indebtedness of the bankrupt on
the ground that the debt had been paid.

THE facts are .stated in the opinion.
Mr. W* L. Estes, with whom Mr. Hiram Glass, Mr. John J.
King and Mr. A. L. Burford were on the brief,. for defendant
in error.
Mr. Chas. S. Todd, Mr. Geo. Q. McGown, Mr. Jno. A. Hurley, Mr,S. E. Webber, for plaintiff in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
I

=

This case presents the single question of the jurisdiction of
the District Court of the United States to entertain a suit

HARRIS v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

brought by Harris as trustee in bankruptcy against the
First National Bank of Mt. Pleasant, Texas.,
The petition alleged that Hargrove, the bankrupt, was
indebted to the defendant bank for an overdraft in the sum
of $2,000; that to secure the payment of the same Hargrove
delivered into the bank's possession as collateral security
certain notes; that at the time of the adjudication in bankruptcy Hargrove had paid the overdraft in full.
Further, the petition alleged that at the time Hargrove
was adjudged a bankrupt the bank had in its possession two
certain promissory notes, which had been signed by one
McGee as principal and by Hargrove as surety. That prior
to the bankruptcy Hargrove paid the notes and thus became
entitled to the same. That defendant refuses to account for
said notes, and wrongfully withholds them from the trustee.
The prayer of the petition is that the bank be required to
surrender to the trustee the notes so pledged. as collateral
security, and also the notes paid by Hargrove as surety, or,
in default thereof, judgment against the bank in the sum of.
$3,500, the value of all the notes. Upon issue made as to its'
jurisdiction the District Court held it was without jurisdiction
and dismissed the suit.
In Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524, this court
heJd that under § 23,-of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 the District Court of the United States could, by the consent of the
defendant, and not otherwise, entertair suits by the trustee
against third persons to recover property conveyed by the
bankrupt before the institution of proceedings' in bankruptcy.
Subsequently, Congress, by the act of February 5, 1903,
32 Stat. 797, .c.
487, amended certain sections of the.Bankruptcy Act. To § 23b, which provided that suits by the
trustee should only be brought in couyts where the bankrupt,
whose estate was being administered by the trustee, might
have brought them ifproceedings idfbankruptcy had not
been instituted, unless by the defendant's consent, these
words were added: "Except suits'for the recovery of property

OCTOBEIR TERM,

1909.

Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

under section sixty, ,,.bdiwi.VioU b, and. section sixty-seven,
subdivision e."
Subdivision b of §6 mad..lprovision for the recovery of
l)refertlc(es given by the. bankrulpt within four months before
the filing of the petition in bankruptcy. To that subdivision
these words were added: "And, in'the p'urpo.se of such recovery,
any court of bankruptcy, a. herenbeJore delined, and any state
court which would have hadjurisdictionifbankruptcy had not
intervened, shall have concurrent juri.diction."
Subdivision e of § 67 made provision for setti'ng aside
fraiudilcnt conveyances, and the recovery of prol)rty so
conveyed at the suit of'the trustee. To that sublilvision these
words were added: "For the purpose of .uch recovery any court
of bankruptcy as hereinbefore defined, and any state court which
would have had jurisdiction qf bankruptcy had not intervened,
shall, have concurrent jurisdiction."
A consideration of these amcndments, having reference to
the recovery of preferences and of property fraudulently
conveyed, shows that they cannot include the action under
consideration here. Nor is it claimed that they-are sufficient
of themselves to authorize the present suit. Reliance is had
on the amendment made by the act of February 5, 1903, of
subd. e of § 70. We give that subdivision, putting the amendinent in italics:
"e. The trustee rray avoid any transfer by the bankrupt
of his property which any creditormight have avoided, and
inay'recover the property so transferred, or its value, from
the ierson to whorn it was transferred, unless he was a bona
fide holder for: value prior to the date of tfe adjudication.
-Such propcrty may be recovered or its value collected from
whoever may have received it, except a bona fide holder, for
value. For the purpose of such recovery any court of bankruptcy
as hereinbefore.defined, and any state coitrt which would have
had j-urisdiction ifbankruptcy had not intervened, shall have
coner'rent jurisdiction."
It is to be noted that § 70, subd. e, is not mentioned in the

HARRIS v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

amendment to § 23, enlarging the jurisdiction of the Federal
coUrt to entertain suits without the consent of the defendant.
And it has been held that suits under § 70, subd. e, can only
be brought in a court of bankruptcy'with the consent of the
defendant. Hull v. Burr, 153 Fed. Rep. 945. The contrary
.view was taken in Hurley et al. v. Devlin, 149 Fed. Rep. 268.
But we do not find it necessary to pass upon that question.
Assuming for this purpose that actions may be brought by
trustees in the courts of bankruptcy in cases coming within
the terms of § 70, subd. e, without the consent of defendant,
we do not think the present action is one of that character.
That subdivision, provides for avoiding transfers of the
bankrupt's property which his creditors might have avoided,
and forrecovery of such property, or its value, from persons
who are not bona fide holders for value. In this action no
such Itransfer'is alleged, no attack is made upon a transfer by
the bankrupt which would have been void as to creditors.
The petition seeks to recover property held by the bank, if
the allegations are true, which belonged to the bankrupt,
and consequently passed to the trustee as the representative
.of the bankrupt's estate, The recovery sought is of property
held for the bankrupt estate, which the defendant wrongfully
refused to surrender. The District Court was right in denying jurisdiction of the suit, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

VOL. ccxvi-25

