PENMAN v. ST. PAUL INSURANCE CO.
216 U. S.

Syllabus.

to review the case and consider all that was necessary to the
exercise of such power. That power was invoked by defendant, and he secured 'from its exercise *a reduction of three
years in his sentence. And Trono v. United States, 199โข U. S.
521, may be cited as an answer to the contention. In that
case the power of review which the Supreme Court possessed
over the judgment of the trial court was exerted to the extent
of reversing a judgment and sentence for assault, and rendering a judgment for homicide. Trono v. United States
needs very little comment. It declares the relation of the
courts and the scheme of procedure existing in the Philippine
Islands and brings the case at bar to the simple proposition,
when stripped of ingenious suggestions, that an error which
was made (if error was made, of which we express no opinion)
at the trial in the court of first instance, and which was not
repeated in the Supreme Court, is not a ground of legal complaint.
The third assignment of error is not discussed by counsel.
It is, however, manifestly without merit.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissents.

PENMAN v. ST. PAUL FIRE AND MARINE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 67. Argued Januhry 7, 10, 1910..--Decided February 21, 1910.
The rule of ejusdem generis is a rule of interpretation, and even if it
should be applied more liberally to contracts of insurance than to
contracts of other kinds, it cannot be so applied as to exclude
"blasting powder ' from a prohibition to keep or allow on insured
premises certain specified explosives and "other explosives."

Where the policy furnishes the only way by which its 'terms can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1909:
Argument for Petitioner.

216 U. S.

waived and expressly provides against modification by customs of
trade or manufacture or by agents, and are unambiguous, courts
cannot admit parol testimony to alter the written words of the
contract.

Northern Assurance Company v. Grand View Building

Association, 183 U. S. 308.
U51 Fed. Rep. 961, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the liability of a fire insurance
company on a policy of insurance, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. J. Truit, with whom Mr. Frederic D. McKenney and
fr. B. M. Clark were on the brief, for petitioner:
The action is governed by the law of Pennsylvania. 22 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law, 1349; Mann v. Salsberg, 17 Pa. Super.
Ct. 280; Musser v. Stauffer, 192 Pa. St. 398; Judiciary Act of
1789, c. 20, ยง 34. The knowledge and act of an insurance
company's local agent connected with the risk is the knowledge and act of the company itself. Caldwell v. Fire Assu.,
177 Pa. St. 492; Davis v. Insurance Co., 5 Pa. Super. Ct. 506,
512; Phila. Tool Co. v. British Am. Assurance Co., 132 Pa. St.
236; People's Ins. Co. v. Spencer, '53 Pa. St. 353; Humphreys
v. Nat. Ben. Assn.,, 139 Pa. St. 264.
Evidence is admissible ,to show the'understanding and intent of the parties and the customs connected therewith at
the time the insurance was contracted. Graybill v. Fire Ins.
Assn., 170 Pa. St. 75; Lancaster Co. v. Fire Ins. Co., 170
Pa. St. 151; W. & A. Pipe Lines v. Insurance Co., 145 Pa. St.
346; Helme v. Phila. Life Ins. Co., 61 Pa. St. 107; Pittsburg
Ins. Co. v. Frazee, 107 Pa. St, 521; Lutz v. InsuranceCo., 205
Pa. St. 159; Machine Co. v.'Insurance Co., 173 Pa. St. 53;
Bently v. Insurance Co., 191 Pa. St. 276; McCaffery v. Knights
of Columbia, 213 Pa. St. 609.
Where a policy of insurance is susceptible without violence
of two interpretations that which, is more favorable to the insured should be adopted. Teutonia Fire Ins. Co. v. Mund, 102
Pa. St. 94; 16 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 862; 17 Am.& Eng.
Ency. of Law, 25. The expression in a contract of one or

PENMAN v. ST. PAUL INSURANCE CO.
216 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

more things of a class implies the exclusion of all not expressed
though all would have been implied had none been expressed.
Higgins v. Eagleton, 13 Misc. (N. Y.) 223; S. C., 68 N. Y. St.
82; O'Niel v. Van Tassel, 137 N. Y. 297; Cree v. Bristol, 66
'N. Y. St. 518; Hummerquist v Swensson, 44 Ill. App. 627.
Facts of public notoriety relating to the subject of a cntract must be presumed to have been known to the parties.
Woodruff v. Woodruff, 52 N. Y. 53; McMillen v. Titus, 222
Pa. St. 500.
The burden is on the insurance company tQ prove-the existence of the condition and its violation. 16 Am. & Eng.
Ency. of Law, 955; Dougherty v. InsuranceCo., 154 Pa. St. 386.
A parol waiver by an agent of the in'surer of a condition of
the policy is binding on the insurer. Coursin v Pa. Ins. Co.,
46 Pa. St. 323; McFarlandv. Kit. Ins. Co., 134 Pa. St. 590.
The burden was on the insurance company to show that
blasting powder, which was not among the prohibited articles
named 'inthe condition, was of the same nature, as dangerous
and inflammable, as dynamite and gunpowder' and if the same
as gunpowder that a quantity in excesS of twenty-five pounds
was kept on the premises.
There was no proof that benzine was .of like nature with
camphene or spirit 'gas. ' It is not a matter of which the court
will take judicial notice. Itis a question of fact, to be found
by a jury upon evidence. Mears v. Humboldf Ins. Co., 92
Pa. St. 15,. 19; Wdod v. Northwestern Ins. Co., 46 N. Y. 421.
The universal rule of legal construction and interpretation
is:that general words following an enumeration of particulars are to have their generality limited by reference to the
preceding particular enumeration and to be construed as including only all other articles of the like niature and 4tuality.
Sandinan v. Breach, 7 B. & C. K. B. Reps. 100; Brooks v.
Lord Kensington, 14 Eng. Ruling Cases, 723; Alabama v.
Montague, .117 U. S.602; United States v. Celluloid, 82
Fed. Rep. 627; Newport &c. Co. v. United States, 61 Fed.
Rep. 488; Crystal p.-Distillery Co. v Cox, 49 Fed. Rep. 555;

OCTOBER T'l.,

1909.

.Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

Erwin v. Jersey City, 60 N. J. L. 14.5; Livermore v. Camden
County, 29. N. J. Law, 247; King v. Thompson, 87 Pa. St. 369;
Renick v. Boyd, 99 Pa. St. 555; Pardee's App., 100 Pa. St.
412; Bucher v. Commonweolth, 103 Pa. St. 528.
Mr. William D. Mitchell, with whom Mr. W. K. Jennings,
Mr. D. C. Jennings, Mr. Jared How, Mr. Pierce Butler-and
Mr. George Hoke were on the brief, for i'espondent:
To keel), use or allow blasting powder upon the premises
was clearly prohibited by the terms of the written contract,
and no application of the rule of ejusdem generic can exclude
blasting powder from thd words "other explosives" in the
policy. Reniclc v. Boyd, 99 Pa. St. 555; United Ins. Co. v.
Foote, 22 Ohio St. 340. See statutes, 1 Mass. Rev. Laws, 1902,
p. 880, c. 102, ยง 105; So. Car. Civ. Code, 1902, ยง 2156.
A violation by a tenant has same effect as violation by the
insured. L'pool & Lon. & Globe v. Gunther, 116 U. S. 113;
Diehl.v. Insurance Co., 58 Pa. St. 443.
The condition included even a temporary presence of the
prohibited article. 180 Pa. St. 257. Extrinsic or parol evidence is not admissible to alter the meaning of the written
contract. Northern Ins. Co. v. Grand View Assn., 183 U. S.
308; West. Assn. Co. v. Rector, 85 Kentucky, 294; Citizens'
Ins. Co. v. McLaughlin, 53 Pa. St. 485, distinguished, and see
McKeesport Co. ,v. Insurance Co." 173 Pa. St. 53; Lutz v.
Royal Ins. Co., 205 Pa. St. 159.
The question in te case is not governed by the decisions
in the State of Pennsylvania. Commonwealth v. Huntzinger,
98 Pa. St. 41. If the contract did not express the real intention of the parties as written the petitioner's remedy is to seek
its reformation in equity. Nor. Ins. Co. v. Grand View Assn.,
203 U. S. 106.
MR. JuSTIcE MCKFNNA delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to recover the sum of $2,600, with interest,
upon a fire insurance policy for the value of a building de-

PENMAN v. ST. PAIUL INSURANCE CO
216 U. S.

tOpinion of the Court.

stroyed by fire. The action was brought in the Court of Common Pleas of Jefferson County, Perfnsylvania, and by the,
insurance company, the respondent herein removed to the
United States Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
Plaintiff's statement, to use the local name for her pleading, alleged, a contract of insurance whereby the insurance
company insured, for the term of three years, against direct
loss by fire, "a two-story shingle-roofed building, 28 x 96,
and additions," etc., to be occupied by tenants as dwellings,
and situated in Punxsutawney, Jefferson County, Pennsylvania. Payment of the premium and charges was alleged,
also the total loss of the building by fire. A copy of the policy
was attached to the statement and made a part of it. The
policy contained the following covenant:
"This entire policy, unless otherwise provided by agreement indorsed hereon Or added hereto, shall be void
if (any usage or custom of trade or manufacture to the contrary notwithstanding) there be kept, used or allowed on th&above-described premises benzine, benzole, dynamite, ether, I
fireworks, gasoline, Greek fire, gunpowder, exceeding 25 lbs.,
in quantity, naphtha, nitro-glycerine, or other explosives."
The policy also contained the following covenant:
"This policy is made and accepted subject to the foregoing
stipulations and conditions, together with such other provisions, agreements or conditions as may be endorsed hereon
or added hereto, and o officer, agent, or other representative of this company shall have-power to waive any provision
or condition of this policy except such as by the terms of this
policy may be the subject of agreement indorsed hereon or
added hereto, and -as 'to such provisions and conditions no
officer, agent, or representative shall have such power or, be
deemed or held to have waived such provisions or conditions
unless such waiver, if any,/shall be written upon or attached
hereto, nor shall any privilege or permission affecting the in.surance under this policy exist or be claimed by the insured
unless so written or attached."

OCTOBER1 'TERM, 1909.
Opiniodi of the Court.

216 U.S.

The case was tried to a jury and resulted in the verdict for
the plaintiff, upon which judgment was duly entered. A
motion fpr a new trial was denied. The judgment was reversedby the Circuit Court of Appeals. 151 Fed. Rep. 961.
This writ of certiorari was then allowed. 209 U. S. 543.
The question in the case is the effect of the-covehants which
we have quoted. It was raised in the Circuit Court by objection to certain testimony, which was admitted, and the denial
of certain'instructions which were requested.
The property is situated in the coal mining regions of Pennsylvania, and the testimony -shows that an explosion preceded
or was coincident with tho fire as its cause or effect. Indeed,
it seems to be clear that the explosion was caused by one of
the tenants throwing lighted "squibs" in the air "for fun."
And there was testimony that it was the custom of miners to
keep more or less blasting powder in their dwellings. The
custom seems to.-have arisen on account of a law of Pennsylvania, which provides that "no powder or high explosive
shall be stored in any mine and no more of either article
shall be taken into the mine at any one time than is required for any one shift unless the quantity be less than five
pounds.

.

"

In supplement to this testimony the Circuit Court admitted,
over the objection of -the company, the testimony of the agent
who placed the insurapce up6n the property, to the effect
that he had taken considerable risks as Agent for defendant
company on minels' dwellings; that he knew of the custom
of miners to keep blasting powder in their dwellings; that he
knew that the building insured was in seven compartments,
"seven miners' dwellings," to be-occupied by seven different
families, and that he "increased the rate by reason of the
fact that this building was to be occupied by miners, and
having knowledge that.they kept more or less blasting powder about their dwellings." And he. also testified that, After
he had placed the risk, the special agent-of the company went
with him,, looked at the risk and said it was satisfactory, after

PENMAN v. ST. PAUL INSURANCE CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion ofthe Court.

having made inquiry as to the rate. He expressed the increase in percentage as "one and a quarter for one year, or
two and a half for two' years." He also charged an extra
premium for finishing.
He increased the premium, he further testified, because he
"thought it was going to be occupied by coal miners," 'and
"because there was seven of them." The increase was from
one and a quarter per cent to two and a half per cent, but he
did not know what he would have charged if the building had
not been for coal miners. And further, that he'was not told
that the building was to be occupied by coal miners, he knew
that from his experience in the business. Mrs. Penman did
not tell him, nor did he tell her that he had increased the rate,
,because she might possibly, have it occupied by miners, but
he told the special agent of the company "that that entered
into the calculations." He did fiot report it on the form because it was not his custom to do so. To the question whether
it was special business he was "performing rather than acting for the company," he answered, "yes."
The policy recited that the building insured was "in process
of erection with privilege to finish and to be occupied by tenof the extraants as dwellings," and that 'in consideration
premium of three' and 90-100 dollars ($3.90) 30 days' permission is hereby granted to finish the-building." There was
evidence'showing that blasting powder is a' lower degree of
explosive than gunpowder or dynamite, and that the latter is
a higher degree than gunpowder.
In viewv of this testimony the. Circuit Court decided, as it
said, that though ordinarily it was "the duty of a court to
construe a written instrument and instruct the jury what its
terms meant," le would leave to the jury "as a question of
fact", for it "to determine, whether, under the evidence and
the facts proven here, blasting powder" was "included in
the term ',other explosives.'
Entertaining that view, the
court refused to instruct the jury, as requested by the company, ".that 4nder the evidence the verdict should be for the

OCTOBIDR TERM, 1909.
Opinion of Jhe Court.

216 VT. S.

defendant." The court refused other requests which were
-based on the controlling effect of the policy.
In :passing upon the motion for a new trial the Circuit
Court reasserted the view that.it was for the jury to "determine whether, blasting powder was one of the prohibited articles which was to invalidate the policy." The court observed: "It was contended by one side that it was embraced
under the term '.other explosives;' by the other, that it was
not." The court further said: "While of course blasting
powder is an explosive, and is therefore covered by the generic term 'other explosives,' yet the fact that other explosives
of the general character of blasting powder, and those of a
much mo re dangerous character than blasting powder, to wit,
dynamite and gunpowder, of which twenty and five pounds
were permitted, were specified, it was contended that the express mention of these more dangerous powders evidenced
an intent not to cover the less dangerous article of blasting
powder under the general term 'other explosives.' " To the
last contention the court, as we have seen, yielded, and rejected the case of The Northern Assurance Co. v. Grand View
Building Asso., 183 U. S. 308, as not decisive, by saying that
"in that case there was no question as to what the policy
provided, in the present the crucial question was as. to what
the policy in question covered by the term ' other explosives.' "
The majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals took another
view. It found nothing obscure in the language of the policy,
and nothing therefore to excuse the Circuit Court from exercising the duty of construing it. Answering the contention
that the words "or other explosives" should not be held to
include explosives of lower power than gunpowder or dynamite, it was said: "Such an application of the maxim noscitur
d sociis is too narrow."
It was pointed out, that the enumeration of explosives included other explosives than gunpowder and blasting powder,
and that there was nothing in the record to show their relative degrees of power, nor whether they or any of them were

PENMAN v. ST. PAUL INSURANCE CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of less explosive power than gunpowder or dynamite. Their
relative power, it was said, was not a matter of common
knowledge, and if the general words "or other explosives"
were to be or could be limited by such relation or their relation to blasting powder, the burden was upon the plaintiff
to show it, as those words "in their literal and natural meaning included blasting powder." It was hence concluded that
"to hold, under the present proofs, that the general words
'or other explosives' do not include blasting powder merely
because it is a less dangerous explosive than dynamite or gunpowder, when it may be more dangerous than Greek fire, benzinc, benzole, ether, gasoline, or naphtha, is virtually to de-

cide arbitrarily that no m .ning or effect shall be given to
the general words.- We are satisfied that this cannot be done,
and that, as the proofs stand, the general words include blasting powder."
The court thus deciding that the words of the policy included blasting powder, further decided that the Circuit
Court erred in admitting parol testimony to vary its terms,
and also erred in not directing a verdict for the company.
A member of the court dissented from both propositions.
His argument was elaborate and would not be adequately
represenited by condensation. It asserted the view of the
Circuit Court and the contention df the plaintiff. It considered that by the rule of ejusdem generis blasting powder was
not covered by the words "other explosives," and by them
were meant explosives of the same power as those enumerated,
which it seems to have been assumed blasting powder was
not. It was considered besides thit the words could be given
a meaning by the custom of miners and the industrial conditions which existed in the neighborhood, and also from the
knowledge and conduct of the company's agent when the insurance was placed. Cases from Pennsylvania were cited to
support that proposition, of which we may select as representative Maghine Company v. Insurance Company, 173 Pa. St.
53, where the policy of insurance on two buildings, one a

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

foundry and machine shop, and the other a pattern shop, was
considered. The policy covered the patterns in the pattern
shop by these words, "on patterns therein one thousand
dollars." The pattern shop was from fifteen to twenty feet
from the foundry in which the fire occurred, and in which the
patterns were destroyed, where they were taken the evening
before the fire for actual use next day in accordance with the
orders and customs in that and other shops in the use of patterns. It was found by a jury returning a specialverdict that
such rse was a- reasonable one and answered the convenient
operation of such plants, and that the agent of the defendant
company examined the shops and patterns and buildings before taking the insurance. The court said:
"The policy sued on in this case was issued to a manufacturing company and 'covered the buildings, machinery, fixtures and' appliances in daily use in the business of the company. The rules of construction applicable to such a contract
of insurance are well settled. The object of the contract is
indemnity against the loss by fire of the business plant, or
any portion of it, while used and occupied by the owners in
the manner and for the purposes for which it was designed.
If its provisions are susceptible of two or more interpretations,
that one should be adopted that will make the contract effective for the protection of the insured. 'In other words, the
contract should be liberally construed in aid of the indemnity
which was in c6ntemplation of the parties who made it.. W.&
A. Pipe Lines v. Insurance Co., 145 Pa. 346.
"Again, an insurance company issuing a policy upon a
business plant, or any portion of it, is chargeable with. knowledge of the customary methods. of conducting the business in
which the property insured is used. Pipe Lines v. Insurance
Company, supra. This rule is not limited to insurance upon
property in use for manufacturing or other business purposes.
It. was applied in the construction of- a policy issued upon a
dwelling house in Doud v. Citizens' Insurance Company, 141
Pa. 47, and in Roe v. Dwelling House Insurance Co., 119 Pa.

PENMAN v. ST. PAUL INSURANCE CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

94. It was applied to a policy of insurance upon a horse in
Haws v. Fire Association of Phila.,114Pa. 431. Still another
rule of construction is that the circumstances surrounding
the making of the contract and affecting the subject to which
it relates form a sort of context that may properly be resorted to for aid in determining the meaning of the words
and provisions of the contract. Bole, Assignee, v. New Hampshire Fire Ins. Co.,. 159 Pa. 53; Graybill v. The Penn Township Mutual Fire Ins. Co., 170 Pa. 75."
We have stated the rulings of the courts below, because
they accurately exhibit the contentions of the parties and the
question's for decision and with. such fullness of argument
that there is not much more for this court to do than to select and concur. The Court of Appeals decided, as wer have
seen, that under the terms of the policy blasting powder could
not be "kept, used or allowed" on the insured property, and
that such prohibition was not waived by the knowledge and
acts of the company's agent. We concur in this, and we think
the 'reasoning by which it was supported is conclusive. The'
rule of ejusdem generis is a rule of interpretation, and' granting, arguendo, it should be applied more liberally to contracts
of insurance than to contracts of other kinds, yet we think it
woiald be giving ittoo much force to "yield to the contention'
of petitioner. Blasting powder is an explosive, and one of
power; it is therefore capable of producing the result that the
provision of the policy was intended to guard against. We
are given no tests; as the Court of Appeals said, and we certainly may not assume them; of a, comparison of it with the
explosives which are enumerated, except dynamite and gunpowder. The law of Pennsylvania) as we have seen, has given
it character and has guarded against its destructive force.
We think also that the policy furnishes the only way by
which its terms can be waived. It provides against modifications by the usage or custom ,cif trade or manufacture. It
guards against any acts of waiver of its conditions or a change
of them by agents. It provides that such waiver or change
VOL. ccxvi-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.

322'

Syllabus.

216 U. S.

"shall be written upon or attached" to the policy. The company could have used no words which would have been more
explicit. There is no ambiguity aboit them. Parol testimony was not needed Alor admissible to interpret -them.
They constituted the contract between the company and the
insth'ed. No agent had power to change or modify that contract except in the rmanner provided. This was decided in

Northern Assurance Company v. Building Association, supra.
Any other ruling would take from contracts the certain evidence of their" written words and turn them over for meaning to'the disputes Of parol testimony.
The Pennsylvania cases cited by the petitioner do not militate with the rule there announced. If they did, it might be
open to colitrove'sy how far they were binding on this court.
Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Company, 215 U. S. 349.

Judgment affirmed.

BLAKE, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. OPENHYM.
APFEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT O

APPEALS FOR TilE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 71.

Subenitted January 11, 1910.-Decided February 12, 1910.

The judgment in this case that the vendor of goods sold to the bankrupt had a 'right to, and did, rescind the contract of sale on the

grouid that. the goods were obtained by the bankrupt's fraud, and
that the rescission was seasonably made on that ground, involves
no provision of the-bankruptcy law, but depends on principles of
general law, and an appeal will not lie to this court from the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals. Chapman v. Bowen, 207
U. S. 89.

Where, after writ of replevin, the state court turns the goods over to
the receiver, who sq receives them, on the express conditiQn that he
assume the liabilities incurred in that court which has held that
the liability under the re:delivery bond was incurred for benefit of
the estate, no provision of the bankruptcy act is involved that

would make the decision reviewable in this court on wilt of error.

