400

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. SAMUEL E.
GREENE.
ERROR TO. THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 450.

Argued December 16,17, l909.-Decided February.21, 1910.

Equal protection- of the laws means subjection to equal law.4 applying
alike to all in the same situation.
A corporation isa person within the 'meaning of the equal protection
I
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
A corporftion whic(h comes into a State other than that in which it is
created, pays taxes thereto and acquires property and carries on
busincss therein, is within the jurisdiction of that State, and, unler
the Fourteenth Amendment, entitled to protection? against any stat-"
ute of that State that denies to it the'equal protection of the laws.
Arbitrary selection cannot be justified by calling it classification in
the absence of real distinction on a substantial basis; and a classifi-.
cation for taxation that divides. corporations doing exactly the
same busiiess with the same kind of .property into foreign and doinestic is arbitrary and a denial of equal.,protection of the laws.
Whafever power a State may have to exclude or determine the terms
of the admission of foreip corporations not already vithin its
borders, it cannot subject iL foreign corporation which has alre-ad*y
come into the State in compliance with its laws and has acquired
property of a fixedand permanent nature to a new and additional
franchise tax for the privilege of doing business which is not imposed upon domestic corporations. It would.b an'unconstitutionhi
denial of equal protection of the. laws under the Fourteenth Amendment; and so held as to the franchise t, x on foreign corporations of
Alabama of 19071,
49 So. Rep. 404, reversed.
ACTION was brought in the City Court of Birmingham, Alabama, by the Southern Railway Company to recover the sum
of $22,458.36, for so.much money received by the defendant
asjudge of the Probate Court of Jefferson County, Alabama,
which sum the plaintiff claimed waswrongfully exacted from.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. GREENE.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

it under the provisions of the act of March 7, 1907. This sum
is the amount taxed against the Southern Railway Company
underthe said legislative act, and, under the practice in Alabama, if illegally exacted, it may be recovered.
This act is found in the Code of Alabama of 1907, vol. 1,
page 986, §§ 2391 to 2400 inclusive. It provides for the payment of an annual f'anchise tax to the probate judge by every
foreign corporation authorized to do business 'within the State,
in which it has a resident agent, with certain exceptions, for
the use of the Statei upon the actual amount of the capital
stock employed by it in the State; in the amount of $25 of the
first $100, 5% on the next $900, and one-tenth of 1% on all the
remaining amount of capital so employed.
. Provision is made for the assessment of the tax by proceedings before the probate judge, with an al)l)eal to the Circuit
Court in certain cases. The statute enacts that no foreign
corporation required to pay a tax under this statute shall do
any business in the State of Alabama not constituting interstate commerce, or maintain or commence any action in any
of the courts of the State, upon contracts made in the State
other than contracts based upon interstate commerce, unless
such corporation shall have paid said tax within sixty dLys
after the same shall have become due. The payment of the
tax in One county shall be sufficient, notwithstanding the
corporation shall do business or have a resident agent in more
than one county.
The payment of the franchise t.ax, required by this statute,
does'not exempt any ororatioii paying the same from paymernit of the regular license or )rivilege tax specified or rcquired for engaging in or carrying on business, the license for
which is required from individuals, firms or corporations. In
addition to the amount of the franchise tax required to be
paid-to the State, such foreign corporation shall pay to the
county, for the use of the county, an amount equal tn one-half
of the amount paid by it to the State. Loans of money upon
which a mortgage tax is paid are deducted from capital emVOL. ccxvi-26

OCTOBER TERIM, 1909.
Statement'of the Case.

216 U. S.

ployed in the State upon which there shall be paid the recording privilege tax required by law.
The complaint averred that the act is unconstitutional and
void,'as it impaired the obligation of a contract between the
plaintiff and the State of Alabama, and in that it deprived the
plaintiff of its property without due process of law, and denied
to it the equal protection of the laws.
Plaintiff averred that it is a corporation created under th
laws of the State of Virginia, and as such authorized to lease,
use, operate and acquire any railroad or transportation company, then or thereafter incorporated by the laws of the United,
States, or any of the States thereof., That it thus organized in
February, 1894; and has since carried on the business of acquiring, owning and operating lines of railroads in various
States, and conducting interstate and intrastate transportation of persons and property. That, "in conformity with the
laws of the State of Alabama, on July 16, 1894, it filed in the
office of the Secretary of State a copy of its charter, and designated an agent upon whom servicc could be made, and that at
the same time it paid to the treasurer of the State Qf Alabama
the sum of $250, being the sum required as a license fee for
begining business in the State. It avers that after thus complying with the laws of Alabama it commenced carrying on its
authorized business within the State, and has therein carried
on the same business ever since; that between the time of entering the State as aforesaid and tile year 1899 it purchased
and acquired, as permitted and authorized by the laws of
Alabama, various lines of railroad and the franchises under
which they had 'been built and operated, which lines are connected with and continuous with other lines owned by the
plaintiff.
The complaint states, that these lines of railroad situated
in the State of Alabama had be'en theretofore constructed under its laws by duly authorized corporations, and the compIaint contains a list of such lines; that it acquired said lines,
paying large sums of money therefor, in pursuance of and re-

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. GREENE.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

liance upon the laws of the State of Alabama; that since such
acquisition it has continued to operate such lines of railroad,
transacting a large amount of business thereon, both interstate
and intrastate, and has expended large sums of money in the
maintenance and improvement thereof.
Plaintiff avers that from time to time ownership taxes,
similar to those assessed against other persons and corporations, have been assessed against it, all of which the plaintiff
has paid. It has also paid from year to year the license tax
exacted of it and other persons and corporations operating
railroads in the State of Alabama under § 3489 of the Code of
Alabama of 1896, under § 1128 of the Code of Alabama of
1886. It has also paid on account of its ownership of such railroad, taxes assessed against it under the act of March 7, 1897,
taxing the franchises or intangible property, in the State, of
every person and corporation engaged in transporting persons
or property of any railrodd therein. It has also paid the
license fee, and has procured the license provided for by the
act of the legislature of the State of Alabama, approved
March 7, 1907, entitled, "An act to further regulate the doing
of business in Alabama by foreign or non-resident corporations, or corporations organized under or by authority of the
law of any other State or government than the State of Alabama, and to fix a punishment for the violation thereof."
Plaintiff states that all these exactions have been made
by
the State of Alabama upon corporations owning and operating
railroads in Alabama, without regard to whether the corporation owning and operating such railroad was a domestic corporation or a corporation organized under the laws of some other
State, with the sole exception of the license' fee last above
mentioned, which is a nominal amount ($10 per annum), exacted from foreign corporations only for mere police purposes,
in order that there may be a registration of such foreign corporation, doing business in Alabama, in the office of the .ecretary
of State. Plaintiff avers that the legislative act of March 7,
1907, under which it was compelled to pay the said sum of

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Eiror.

216 U. S.

$22,458.36 does not apply to persons o corporations of the
State of Alabama owning the same character of prol)rty an(l
carrying oil the same kind of business as is owned a td carried
on by corporations'orgaiiized under the laws of other States,
lor is there any similar exaction against domestic cOIJ )oratiols
owning such property and engaged in the same character of
business.
Plaintiff recites the proceedings before the probat e judge of
Jefferson County, reC.sulting in the finding that tie capital of the
Plaintiff employed in the State of Alabama was 81-1,903,246,
and the assessment thereon of the tax of $22,458.36, as aforesaid, its payment unler protest, an(l prays jutlgiieit for its
recovery. A demu'rrer to the cornlilai ut was sustaine(d antd
judgment rendered for defendant. Upon appeal the Sll )t(le
Court of Alabama affirmed the judgment. 49 So. Rep. -404.
Mr. Alfred P. Thorn, with- whom Mr. Alexonder Pope
Hunmphrey and Air. Jutne8 Weatherly were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Gregory L. Smith, with whom Mr. H. L. Stone was on
the brief, for Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company,
plaintiff in error in No. 451, argued simultaneously herewith.'
Mr. Robert E. Steiner, Mr. Leon Weil, Mr. T. M. Cunningham, Jr., Mr. A. R. Lawt u and Mr. Horace Strinfifellow, for
Central'of Georgia Railway Company, plaintiff in error in
No. 466, sul)rnitted.1
When a corporation is organized under a general law, the
powers conferred by such law become its charter. GranierIns.
Co. v. Kam pcr, 7:3 Alabama, 242.
Generally speaking, the rights of a corporation arc determined by the laws in force when it came into being. Bibb v.
Hall & Farley, 101 Alabalna, 98.
The domestic corplOrations, whose property and franchises
1 For dcej.sions in Nos. 451 and 466, see p. 418, post.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. GREENE.
216 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

were purchased by plaintiff in error, had charter rights to do
an interstate and intrastate business in Alabama, and these
could not be impaired by legislation. Dartmouth College v.
Woodward, 4 Wheat.. 518; Alabamov. BibleSociety, 134 Alabama, 634.
this is true whether the corporations were formed under
spe.cial or general laws. Salt Co. v. East Saginaw, 13 Wall.
378; StanislausCounty v. San Joaquin,192 U. S.- 206.
In a ease involving the Constitution of the United States,
the Federal courts will not follow the decisions of the state
courts constrfiing an act alleged to violate the Federal Constitution but will construe, such act for themselves.. Douglas v.
Kentucky, 168 U. S. 500; Vicksburg v. Waterworks, 202 U. S.
467; Powers v. Detroit & .GrandHaven Ry;, 201 U. S. 556.
The pro'V'isions of § 23, Art, I, const. of Alabama, of 1875,
forbidding. the grant of any irrevocable special franchises does
not authorize the revocation at will of any franchise granted,
but only their revocation upon reasonable conditions fixed .by
law. Houston v. City Railway, 19 S. W. Rep. 129.
When an instrument makes general provisions for a gubject
and then',provides specially for a part of that subject, the
special provisions as to such subject must prevail. State v.
Inhabitantsof Trenton, 8 N. J. LaWp64.
When an instrument contains two inconsistent provisions,
the latter of such provisions must prevail over the former.
Hand v. Stapleton, 135 Alabama, 162.
Charter rights cannot be altered, amended or revoked under
the powers reserved in the constitution of Alabama, so as to
work an injustice to stockliolders. Vicksburg v. Waterworks,.
202 U. S. 465.
Under the right reserved in a constitution to alter, amend
or repeal the charter, the alterations must be reasonably made
in good faith, and must be consistent with the scope and object of the incorporation. Stanislaus County v. San' Joaquin
C. & I. Co., 192 U. S. 213.
A State cannot, under such reserved rights, take away or

. OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

destroy rights, which by a legitimate use of the powers granted
have becom6 vested in a corporation. Miller v. State, 15 Wall.
498.
A State cannot, under the reserved rights, alter, amend or
repeal a charter by imposing arbitrary burdens upon one set of
persons or corporations within its jurisdiction, not imposed
upon others, and not justified by the character of the business
in which such corporations are engaged in reference to such
burdens. S. & N. Ala. R. R. Co. v. Morris, 65 Alabama, 193;
Gulf, Col. & Santa Fe Rwy. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 151; Phoenix
Carpet Co. v. State, 118 Alabama, 143; Montgomery v. Ke~ly,
142 Alabama, 557; Cotting v. K. C. Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 102;
Magoun v. Ill. Trust & Say. Bk,, 170 U. S. 293.
The imposition of such burdens does not constitute an
alteration, amendment or repeal within the reserved power.
Vicksburg v. Wdterworks,'202 U. S.465.
Where a corporation has power in its charter to sell and assign its franchises, such franchises -are as inviolable in the
'hands of the assignee as they were in the hands of the original
corporation. Mobile v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 84 Alabama, 115;
Wilmington R. R. v. Reid, 13 Wall. 267; Pennsylvania College
Cases, 13 Wall. 212; Willamette Mfg. Co. v. Bank, 119 U. S.
.191.
The effect of §§ 1169 and 1170 of the Code of Alabama of
1896 was to authoize the domestic corporations to sell their
franchises, and was in the nature of an amendment of their
charters. L. & N. R. R. Co. v. State, 45 So. Rep. 302.
The acceptance of a franchise granted by the State is a good
consideration for its grant. Alabama v. Bible Society, 134
Alabam's, 634.
The provisions of § 1169, Code, 1896, are-,similar to the provisions found in the case of American Smelting Co. v. Colorado,
204 U. S.113, and constituted a contract between the State
and the plaintiff in error.
The tax is upon the entire business, and it does not make
is called a property tax or a privilege
any difference whether it;

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. GREENE.
216 U. S.

Argumnt for Plaintiff in Error.

tax. The provisions of the Constitution of the United States
cannot be evaded by the name under which the tax is assessed.
Gal. & HarrisburgRy. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 237; Wilmington
R. R. Co. v. Reid, 13 Wal. 264.
If there was no contract between the State of Alabama and
the plaifitiff in error, but only a contract of sale between the
domestic corporations, and the plaintiff in error, such contract
would be protected by the Constitution of the United States.
Green v. Biddlc,'8 Wheat. 1; Von Hoffman v. City'of Quincy, 4
Wall. 549.
The statute complained of denies to the plaintiff in error the
equal protection of the laws.
A statute which places upon a person withifi the jurisdiction
of the State arbitrary burdens not placed upon other persons
doing the same kind of business under the same circumstances,
denies to the person upon whom it is placed the full protection
of'the laws. Raymond v. Chicago Traction Co.. 207 U. S. 35;
Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 558; Cook v.
Marshall County, 196,U. S. 274; Cotting v. K. C. Stock Yards,
183 U. S. 105.
The Sta-emay taxcertain property or certain callings, so.
long as there is'no arbitrary discrimination against persons
engaged in said callings under like circumstances, but when a
law imposes arbitrary burdens upon one set of persons or
corporations, within the jfftisdiction of the State, not imposed
upon others and not justifi4hdy the character of the business
of such persons or corporations with reference to such burdens
,so as to form a just basis for their imposition, it denies to such
persons or corporations the equal protection of the law.
Cases supra, and Armour Pkg. Co. v. Lacey, 200 U. S. 235;
Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 69; Home Ins. Co . v. New York,
134 U.S. 606; Magoun v. Illinois Trust Co.., 170 U. S. 293.
Even where a foreign corporation -iswithin the domain of
the State only by license, it cannot be arbitrarily excluded
when to so exclude it would violate any provision of the Constitution of the United States. Nat. Councit.v. State Council,

OU'FOl3EI

TERM, 1909.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

203 IT.S. 153; Securities Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Prewitt, 202
I . S: 249.
To exclude a railroad company from the' domain of the
Statev, after it has, with the 1erinission of the State, purchased
a railroad therein and is engaged in operating the same, WOUl
take its property without due process of law. Ames v. Union
Poc. I. le., 64 Fed. Rep. 170.
\\here no. property rights are concerned, the State
may
its
boundary,
from
foreign cor)oratioln
ar)itrarily exciude
8ecarity Mit. Life Ins. Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 257; N. W.
Life Ins. Co. v. Riggs, 203 U. S. 255; Hammond Paiking Co. v.
Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322; but though the State may generally
)ut such burdens upon such corporations as it sees fit, as a
(onlition to contiuiig lbusiness thereiri, it cannot place
arbitrary burdens upon a foreign railroad corporation which
would operate to take its property without due process of law.
Smyth v. Ames, f69 U. S. 469.
The distinctiopi between an insurance company case and a
casq involving the right of a railroad .company, lies in the fact
that when a State permits a railroad conipany to acquire a
railroad within its border, it impliedly agrees that it may utilize such property, and, because of. the nature of the railroad
business, it cannot exclude such corporation from its domain
without taking this property. Nat. Council v. State Council,
203 U. S. 161; Sea Board. Air Line Co. v. R. R. Commission,
155 Fed. Rep. 803; Chicago, R. I. & P. R. R. v. Swanger, 157
Fed. Rep. 791; Erie R. R. v. Pennsylvania,153 U. S. 628.
The act interferes with the regulation by Congress of interstate commerce. Under it the State can sue for and recover
the tax wholly irrespective of, the clause which -forfeits the
right of the corporation, to do an intrastate business for the
non-payment of the tax. State v. Fleming, 112 Alabama, 179.
The tax is-placed upon the corporation as a unit, and is,
therefore, inseparable.. Pickard v. Pullman Pal. Car Co., 11.7
U. S.34; Allen v. Pullman Co., 191 U. S. 177; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.50.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. GREENE.
216 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

If the tax was imposed only on intrastate business, and if
the intrastate business of plaintiff in error was separable from
its interstate business, it still would inturfere with the control
of interstate commerce by Congress, if, under the constitution
and laws of Alabama, the intrastate business could not be
abandoned without abandoning the interstate business. Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420.
The plaintiff in error hrs the right, under the Federal.Constitution, to do an interstate business in Alabama. Pensacola
Tel. Co. v. W. U. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1; Horn Silver Mining Co.
v. New York, 143 U. S. 315; Postal Telegraph Co. v. Adams,
155 U. S. 695.
Plaintiff in error is a "person" within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment, Pembina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181, and also "within the jurisdiction" of the
State, Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239.
Mr. Alexander M. Garber, Attorney General of the State of
Alabama, and Mr. Samuel D. Weakley, with whom Mr. Henry
C. Selheimer was on the brief for defendants in error in this
case and in Nos. 451 and 466.1
The complaints do not show any contract between the State
and plaintiffs in error, the obligation whereof is impaired.
Whatever right to do business the foreign 'corporations acquired was a mere permit or license subject to revocation at
will of legislature. Conn. Mut. Life Ins. C6. v. Sprattley, 172
U. S., 602; Security Mut. Life Ins. C. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246.
No authority exists by which a domestic railroad company
can sell to a foreign corporation. See Cent. Transp. Co. v.
Pullman Co., 139 U. S. 24;, Am. Lumber Co. v. T. V. R. Co.,
45 So. Rep. 911.
The imposition of the tax complained of is not an unjust
discrimination against foreign corporations and therefore is
not a denial of the equal protection of the laws in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
For decisions in Nos. 451 and 466, see p. 418, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

216 U. S.

it is undoubtedly true that appellants are persons within the
jurisdiction of the State, within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and as such are entitled to the equal protection of
the law. But they are not persons within the jurisdiction of,
the State because of any contract with the State, but simply
because they are doing business in the State with the consent
of the State and under authority of its laws. Every corporation doing business in a State other than that of its creation,
with the consent and permission of that State, is a person
within the jurisdiction of such State, whether that consent
arises from contract or from mere license. Santa Clara Co. v.
So. Pac. R., 118 U. S. 394; Charlotte&c. R. R. v. Gibbs, 142 U. S.
386; Minneapolis Ry. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26; Gulf, Col.
&c. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150.
It is not a denial of the equal protection of the law to impose
on a foreign corpotation a tax for the privilege of doing business in the taxiig State, when no such tax, or a tax of a different amount, is imposed on domestic corporations engaged
in the same business. 19 Cyc. 1227 et seq.; Gray on Lim. of
Tax.-Power, § 1318; Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410; New York
v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 662; Horn Silver Min. Co. v. New York,
143 U S. 305; Fire Ass'n of Phila.v. New York, 119 U. S. 110;
Commonwealth v. Milton, 54 Am. Dec. 522; Southern B. & L.
Ass'n v. Norman, 31 L. R. A. 41; Hughes v. City of Cairo, 92
Illinois, 339; Scottish Un. Ins. Co. v. Herriott, 77 Am. St. Rep.
548.
Laws which impose upon foreign corporations the same
taxation and other restrictions as are imposed upon corporations of the taxing State by the States where such foreign
corporations were created, do not infringe any provision of the
Federal Constitution. Fire Ass'n of Phila. v. New. York, 119
U. S. 110; Home Ins. Co. v. Swigert, 104 Illinois, 653; Gray on
Lim. of Tax. Power, 1314.
A State may impose such conditions upon permitting foreign
corporation to do business within its limits as it may judge
expedient; and may make the grant or privilege dependent

SOUTHERN RAILWAY. CO. v. GREENE.
216 U. S.

411

Opinion of the Court.

upon the payment of a specific license tax or a sum proportioned to the amount of its capital used within the State.
Parke, Davis & Co. v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 659; PennsylvaniaR.
Co. v. Wemple, 138 N. Y. 1; People v. Equitable Trust Co., 96
N. Y. 388; Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S.599.
The Federal Constitution imposes no restraint on the State
in regard to unequal taxation. Coulter v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 196'U. S. 599; Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert,
142 U.S. 339-; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Merchants'
Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167,U. S. 461; Bell's Gap Railroad v.
Pennsylvania,134 U. S.232; Savannah &c. R. R. v. Savannah,
198 U. S. 392; Met. St. Ry. 'V.
New York, 199 U.
1; St. Louis
'&c. R. Co. Case, "132 Fed. Rep. 629; Columbus S. R. Co. v.
Wright, 151 U. S.470; N. Y. Central & H. R. R. v. Miller, 202
U. S.593.
MR.JUSTICE DAY,,

after making the,foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.'
The Supreme Court of Alabama placed its decision upon the
ground tha the act of March 7, 1907, should be sustained as a
lawful tax, not upon the franchises of a foreign corpdration, as
property, but as a tax "to add to the license tax already required an additional privilege tax for the continued exercise
of the corporate franchises in the State." 49 So. Rep. 408.
The errors assigned attack the validity of theact of March 7,
1907, upon grounds, among others, that it violates the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution, in' that it
(enies to the plairntiff the equal protection of the laws and deprives it of its property without due process of law.
The 'ofirteerith Amendment provides' that "No State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State
depiive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws."

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

Tile important Federal question for our determination in
this case is: When a corporation of another State has come
into the taxing State, in compliance with its laws, and has
therein ac(uired property of a fixed and permanent nature,
upon Which1
itlas paid all taxes levied by the State, is it liable

to a new and additional franchise tax for the privilege of doing
l)usiness within the State, which tax is not imposed upon
domestic corporations doing business in the State of the same
character as that in which the foreign corporation is itself engaged?
The Federal Constitution, it is only elementary to say, is the
supreme law of the land, and all its applicable provisions are
binding upon 11within the territory of the United States.
TWiienewe.r

its protection is invoked the courts of the United

States, both state and Federal, are bound to see that rights
guaranteed by the Federal Constitution are not Violated by
legislation of the State. One of the provisions of the Fourtecuth Amendment thus binding upon every State of the
Federal Union prevents any State from denying to any person
or.persoms within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
laws. If this statute, as it is interpreted and sought to be enforced in the State of Alabama, deprives the plaintiff of the
equal protection of the laws, it cannot stand.
The e'qual protection of the laws means subjection to equal
laws, applying alike to all in the same situation. If the plaintiff is a person within the jurisdiction of the State of Alabama
within-the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, it is entitled to stand before the law upon equal terms, to enjoy the
same rights as belong to, and to bear the same burdens as are
imposed upon, other persons in a like situation.
Tlat a corporation is a person, within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment, is no longer open to discussion. This
point was decided in Pembina Mining,Co. v. Pennsylvania,125
U. S.181, 188, wherein this court declared:,
"The inhibition of the amendment that no State shall deprive any person within its jurisdiction of the equal protection

SOUTIIEIRN RAIVAY CO. v. ,;l;JENIl
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the laws was designed to prevent iny pcrsoi or .lass of persons from being singled out as a special sul)ject for discriminating and hostile legislation. Under the desigIlatiolt of person there is no doubt that a )rivate corp)oration is included."
And see Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 150, and cases cited on p. 154.
Is the plaintiff corporation, a l)erson within the jurisdiction
of the State of Alabama? In the present case the plaintiff is
taxed because it is doing business within the State of Alabama.
The averments of the complaint, admitted by the demurrer,
show it has acquired a large amount of railroad property by
authority of and in coiroplianctx with the laws of the State; that
it is subject to the juris(liction of the courts of the State; that it
has paid taxes Ul)On its p)roperty, and also ul)on. its franchises
within the State; in short, that it came into the State in compliance with its laws, and at the time of the imposition of the
tax in question had been for many years carrying on business
therein under the laws of the State. We can have no doubt
that a corporation thus situated is within the jurisdiction of
the State. Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239.
The argument on the part of the State of Alabama places
much weight upon the cases in this court which havve sustained
the right of the State to exclude a foreign corporation from its
borders and to impose conditions upon the entry of such corporations into the State for the purpose of carrying on business
therein. That line of cases has been so amply discussed in the
opinions and concurring opinions in the cases of Wedsern Union
Telegraph Co. v. Kansas and Pullman Co. v. Kansas, ante,
pp. 1, 56, decided at the present term, that any extended discussion of them is superfluous now. It is sufficient for the present
purpose to say that we are not dealing with a corporation
seeking admission to the State of Alabama, nor with one which
has a limited license, which it seeks to renew, to do business
in-that State; nor With one which has come into the State upon
conditions which it has since violated. In the case at bar we
have a corporation which has come into and is doing business

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

within the State of Alabama, with the permission of the State
and under the sanction of its laws, afid has established therein
a business of a permanent character, requiring for its prosecution a large amount of fixed and permanent property,, which
the foreign corporation has acquired under the permission and
sanction of the laws of the State. This feature of the case was
dealt with. by Mr. Justice Brewer, then a Circuit Judge, in the
case of Ames v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 165, 177,
wherein he said:
"It must always be borne in mind that property put into
railroad transportation is put there permanently. It cannot
be withdrawn at the pleasure of the investors. Railrpads are
"not like stages or steamboats, which, if furnishing no -profit
at one place, and under one prescribed rate of transportation,
can be taken elsewhere and put to use at other places and under other circumstances. The railroad must stay, and, as a
permanent investment, its value to its owners may not be destroyed. The protection of property implies the protection of
its value."
Notwithstanding the ample discussion of the questions involved in the case of the Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas and Pullman-Company v. Kansas, to which we have already referred, we deem it only fair to the learned counsel for
the State of Alabama to notice some of the cases which it is
insisted have disposed of the question herein involved and
maintained the right of the State to impose a tax upon a
foreign corporation, lawfully within the State, for the privilege
of doing business in the State, when no such tax, or one less
burdensome, is, imposed upon domestic corporations engaged.
in the same business. The first case referred to is Ducat v.
Chicago, 10 Wall. 410, in which a tax was sustained upon a
foreign insurance company which had come into the State
upon complying with certain terms prescribed by the State,
.and was thereafter subjected to a tax on all their premiums,
the-statute declaring it unlawful in the companies otherwise to,
do business in the State. It is. sufficient to say of that case

SOUTHERN RAIL WAY- CO. v. GREENE.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that it arose before the Fourteenth Amendment had become
part of the Federal Constitution, and that no reference is made
in the opinion of the court to the Fourteenth Amendment, although the case was decided after that amendment went into
effect.
In New York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658, 663, a tax was imposed upon the franchises, or business of corporations, with
certain exceptions, computed upon the amount of capital
stock employed within the State. It was pointed out by Mr.
Justice Shiras, who delivered the opinion of the court, that
the ' tax was imposed as well for New York corporations as for
those of other States, and he said "So that it is apparent that
there is no purpose disclosed in the statute either to distifiguish
between New York corporations and those of other States to
the detriment of the latter, or to subject property out of the
State to taxation."
'In Horn Silver Mining Company v. New York, 143 U. S.
305, 315, the tax imposed was applicable alike to corporations
doing business in New York, whether organized in that State
or not, and in the course of the opinion in the case Mr. Justice
Field, speaking for the -court, said: "It does not lie in any
foreign corporation to complain that it is -subjected to the
same law with the domestic co rporation."
In Fire Association v. New York, 119 U. S. 110, 119,' a
Pennsylvania corporation which was taxed in the State of New
York was subjected to'a license-fee, which license ran for a
period of a year, and it was held that the State had the power
tochange the conditions of admission to the State, and to impose as a condition of doing business in the State, at any time
or for the future, the payment of a new or further'tax. Mr.
Justice Blatchford, speaking for the court, said: "if it imposes
such, a lconse fee as a prerequisite for the future the foreign
corporation, until it pays such license fee, is not admitted
within the State, or within its jurisdiction. It is outside of the
threshold, seeking admission, with consent not yet given."
We have adverted to these cases with a view of showing that

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

the precise point involved herein is not concluded by any of
them. It would not be frank tW say that there is not much
said in the opinions in those cases which justifies the argument
that the power of the State to exclude a foreign corporation,
not engaged in interstate commerce, authorizes the imposition
of special . and peculiar taxation upon such corporations as a
condition of doing business within the State. But none of the
.cases relied upon presents the question under the conditions
obtaining in the case at bar. We have here a foreign corporation within a State, in compliance with the laws of the State,
which has lawfully acquired a large amount of l)ermanent and
valuable property therein, and which is taxed by a discriminating method not employed as to domestic corlporations of
the same kind, carrying on a precisely siwilar business.
As we have already indicated, the discussion of Che question
herein involved has largely been anticipated in the recent
cases from Kansas, involving the right to tax the Western
Union Telegraph Company and the Pullman Company. Those
cases are the latest declaration of this edurt'upon the subject,
and in one aspect of them really involve the determination of
the case at bar. In the e7estern Union Telegraph case it was
held that a State could not impose a tax U)On an interstate
commerce corporation as a c6onditin of its right to do,(domestic business within the State, which tax included within its
scope the entire capital of the corporation, without as well as
within the borders of the State. The Kansas tax was 'sought
to be sustained as a legal exaction for the privilege ofdoing
domestic business within the State. It was held invalid because it violated the right secured by the CQnstitution of the
United States, giving to Congress thc exclusive power to regulate interstate commerce, and because it violated' the due
process clause of the Federal Constitution in undertaking "to
make the payment of a tax upon property byond the borders
of the State a condition of doing domestic business within the
State. In that case the Fourteenth Amendment was directly
applied in the due process feature. In this case we have an

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. GREENE.
216 U. S.

Opinion, of the Court.

application of ithe same Amendment, asserting the equal protection of the laws.
We, therefore, reach the conclusion that the corporation
plaintiff, under the conditions which we have detailed, is
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, a 1)erson
within the jurisdiction of the State of Alabama, and entitled
to be protected against any statute of the State which deprives
it of the equal protection of the laws.
It remains to consider the argument made on behalf of the
State of Alabama, that the statute is justified as an exercise of
the right of classification of the subjects of taxation, which has
been held to be entirely consistent with tlhe equal protection
of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. It is
argued that the imposition of special taxes upon-foreign corporations for the privilc(ge of doing business within the State is
sufficient to justify such different taxation, because the tax
imposed is different, in that the one imposed on the domestic
corporation is for the privilege of being a corporation, whereas
the one on the foreign corporation is for the privilege of such
corporation to do business within the State. While reasonable
classification is permitted, without doing violence to the equal
protection of the laws, such classification must be based upon
some real and substantial distinction, bearing a reasonable
and just relation to the things in respect to which such classification is imposed; and classification cannot be arbitrarily
made without any substantial basis. Arbitrary selection, it
has'been said, cannot be justified by calling it classification.
Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 155, 165;.
Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; Connolly
v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 559.
It is averred in the complaint, and must be taken as admitted, that there are other corporations of a domestic character in Alabama carrying on the railroad business in precisely
the same way as the plaintiff. It would be a fanciful distinction to say that there is any real difference in the burden imposed because the one is taxed for the privilege of a foreign
VOL. ccxvi'-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

corporation to do.business in the State and other for the right
to be a corporation. The fact is that both corporations do the
same busine.sjil.character and kind, and-under the statute in
question a foreign corporation may be taxed many thousands

of dollars for the privilege of doing, within the State, exactly
the same business as the domestic corporation is permitted
.to do by a tax upon its privilege, amounting to only a few,
hundred dollars. We hold, therefore, that to tax the foreign
cQrporation for carrying on business under the circumstances
shown, by a different and much more onerous rule than is used
in taxing domestic corporations for the same privilege, is a
denial of the equal protection of the laws, and, the plaintiff
being in position to invoke the protection of the Fourteenth
Amendment, that such attempted taxation under a statute of
the State, does violence to the Federal Constitution.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is therefore reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
'Dissenting:

THE 'CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE .McKENN;A

and MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
GASTON.
CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY v.
SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

Nos. 4 1, 466. Argued December 16, 17, 1909.-No. 466. Submitted
January 3, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.
Decided on the authority of Southern Railway Go. v..Grene', ante, p. "400.
49 So. Rep. 412, reversed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

