SANCHEZ v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The unconstitutionality of the act is averred, and relief is
sought against its enforcement. As this case is ruled, upon
the question of jurisdiction, by the case of Ex parte Young,
it is unnecessary to consider the question further. Upon the
authority of that case the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction is reversed. and the
cause remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.

ALVAREZ Y SANCHEZ v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 69.

Submitted January 11, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

The rights of private individuals recognized and protected by the
Treaty of 1898 with Spain did not include the salability of official
positions, such as procurador; nor did the United States intend to
so restrict its own sovereign authority that it could not abolish the
system of perpetual and salable offices which is entirely foreign to
the conceptions of this people.
Even if Congress did not intend to modify the treaty of 1898 by the
Foraker Act of April 12, 1900, 31 Stat. 77, if that act is inconsistent
with the treaty it must prevail, and be enforced despite any provision in the treaty. Hijo v. United States, 194 U. S.315.
Congress recognized the action of the military authoriti'e' in Porto
Rico in 1898 in abolishing the office of procurador and validated it
by the provision in the Foraker Act of 1900 continuing the laws
and ordinances then in force except as altered-and modified by the
military orders in force.
The abolition of a perpetual and salable office, established under the
Spanish law in Porto Rico prior to its cession to the United States,
does not violate any provision of the Constitution or infringe any
right of property which the holder of the offie can "ssert against
the United States. O'Reilly v. ,Brooke, 209 U. S. 45.
42 C. Cl. 458, affirmed.
\

Mr. S. Mallet-Prevost for appellant:

Claimant's petition alleged a good cause of action.

His

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

office was property under the Spanish law. It was not impaired during the military occupation of Porto Rico. The
Treaty of Paris confirmed the claimant's property. -The
United States deprived the claimant of his property after
the Treaty of Paris and became liable to compensate him for
the value thereof. O'Reilly v. Brooke, 209 U. S. 45, is -not
decisive of this case.
The present case differs from it in several material points.
In the present case the appellant was not possessed of a mere
claim against Spain for the deprivation of his property, but
was in the undisturbed enjoyment and possession of the same,
at the time of the military occupation; he was actually engaged in the performance of the duties of his office. Moreover, this suit is not against an individual officer of a governmerit, but against the government itself, which divested him
of the property which the Treaty of Paris expressly confirmed
in him. Furthermore, this suit involves the Island of Porto
Rico and not that of Cuba; and it is well recognized that a
different state of affairs existed in the two islands.
The claimant's right constituted property under the Spanish law. Civil Code of Porto Rico of 1889, Arts. 336, 349.
Moreover, the provisions of the Code of 1855 clearly indicate that Spain recognized that the holders of the offices held
in perpetuity could not be deprived thereof without compensation. Arts. 126-129, 140-141, Civil Code, Porto Rico, 1855.
It is important in this connection to note that the claimant's
solicitorship was a perpetual and not a life solicitorship. The
latter were of a wholly different character.
Prior to April 11, 1899, the date of the exchange of ratifications of the Treaty of Paris, and of the commencement of
the sovereignty of the United States in Porto Rico, neither
the office nor the property therein had been destroyed or abrogated.
The attempt to make the termination of Spanish sovereignty cotemporaneous with conquest cannot be supported.
The United States did not acquire Porto Rico by conquest,

SANCHEZ v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

but by cession. When the Protocol of Agreement was signed
August 12, 1898, the United States was actually engaged in
hostility in the field with Spanish troops in Porto Rico. Senate )oc. No. 62, pt. 2, 3rd Sess., 55th Cong., vol 8.
The United States obtained possession. of Porto Rico by
virtue of the l)rotocol, and obtained title to the Island by virtue of the cession by the Treaty of Paris.
The sovereignty of the United States commenced, and

therefore that of Spain ceased, at the exchange of ratifications
of the Treaty of Paris. )ooley v. United States, 182 U. S.
222, 230: De Pass v. Bidwell, 124 Ied. Rep. 615, 619; Howell
v. Bidaell, 124 Fed. Rep. 688, 689; Arnmstrong v. Bidwell, 124
Fed. Rep. 690, 692, 693; Ponce v. Roman Catholic Church,
210 U. S. 296, 309,

Subsequent to the protocol, and prior to the exchange of
ratificaliiis of the Treaty of Paris, the United States held
Porto Rico by military occupation, which could not affect
the sovereignty of Spain and did not destroy the property in
the office of the appellant. Wheaton on International Law,
4th ed., § 545, citing Vattel, Bk. III, ch. 13, § 197, 198;
Davis, Int. Law, 333.
The irere fact of military occupation did not give the military forces sovereign rights. The rights of military occupation are distinctly limited. Hall on Int. Law, 2d ed., 430;
Lieber's Code, Inst. for Govt. of Armies in the Field, § 38.
or
The mere fact of military occupation does not abrogate
Ketchum v. Buckdestroy public offices or the title thereto.
ley, 99 U. S. 188.

The Treaty of Paris confirmed appellant's property rights.
The treaty contemplated the preservation of rights as rights
are understood under the Spanish law, as well as under the
American law. O'Reilly v. Brooke. 135 Fed. Rep. 384, 391;
Atty. Genl. Griggs, 22 Op. Atty. Genl. 617; United States v.
Reynez, 9 How. 151; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410, 466. 'See
also Ponce v. Roman Catholic Church, 210 U. S.309.
It is impossible that the property in the office in question

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for the United States.

216 U. S.

was destroyed by the treaty without violating the express
terms of Art. VIII.
While the United States may take real or personal property whenever its necessities or the exigencies of the occasion
demand, the Fifth Amendment guarantees that when this
governmental right is asserted it shall be attended by compensation. United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, 465.
The provisions of the Constitution relating to life, liberty,
and property are applicable to Porto Rico. Doues v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244.
It .is immaterial whether the property so taken is of a tangible or intangible nature. Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312, 329; O'Reilly v. Brooke, 135 Fed.
Rep. 384.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson, with
whom Mr. Franklin W. Collins was on' the brief, for the
United States:
The military government of the United States in occupation of Porto Rico absolutely displaced Spanish sovereignty
and required no further treaty to confirm its supremacy. 2
Halleck, 444; Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S.230.
The office of Solicitor or Procurador was not property under Spanish law or within § 2 of Art. VIII of the Treaty of
1898. If it was property it wassubject to confiscation by an
invading army. Hall's Int. Law, 5th ed., 471; Whiting's War
Powers, 2d ed., 340; 2 Halleck, 75; Taylor's Int. Law, 539;
United States v. Pacific R. R. Co., 120 U. S.228.
An incumbent of an office has not under our own system
any property in it. Tool Co. v. Norris, 2 Wall. 55; Taylor and
Marshall v. Beckham, 178 U. S.547, 577; State v. Dews, Charl.
(Ga.) 397.
The office in question was a mere funiction or public station created by the Crown of Spain. It was not, nor can it
be.regarded as, property of a tangible nature. While spoken
of as salable, it was not private property, nor property of

SANCHEZ v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

any nature, but a public office under the Crown of Spain, as
much so as that of the highest office of the Spanish regime
in Porto Rico.
A positive and affirmative act on the part of the United
States was necessary to secure appellant in the exercise of the
privileges of the office of Procurador. See Magoon's Report,
198.
The office in question was not in harmony with the spirit
of our institutions. As to establishment of new system of
courts in New Mexico, see Leitensdorfer v. Webb, 20 How. 176.
Acquired territory is held by the new sovereignty subject.
to its institutions and not to the laws of the former sovereignty. Vattel's Law of Nations, Bk. 1, ch. 19, §§210, 244, 245;
and Bk. 2, ch. 7, § 80; Pollard'sLessee v. Hagan, 3 Hbw. 225.
International law does not require a nation to protect
property the existence of which is inconsistent with its system of government. That the United States should be called
upon to l)rotect slave property, titles of nobility, monopolies,
or purchasable offices would be clearly-inimical to the spirit
of our laws and the genius of our institutions.
Where the enforcement of the foreign law would contravene some important and established policy of the State of
the forum, or where such enforcement would contravene the
canions of morality established by civilized society, the enfor(iement of such foreigu laws is forbidden. Minor's Conflict
of Laws, ch. 2, § 5, p. 9; Ch., R. I. & P. Ry. v. McGlenn, 114
U. S. 546.
The case of O'Reilly v. Brooke, 209 U. S. 45, controls this case.
Mu .11tS'wei" HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, an inhabitant and citizen of Porto Rico,
seeks to recover from the United States the value of a certain
office held by him in that Island before and during the war
with Spain, of which office, it is alleged, he was illegally deprived by th' Iliited States. A demurrer to the complaint
was sustained anId judgment given for the United States, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

opinion of the Court of Claims being delivered by Chief Justice Peelle. 42 Ct. Cl. 458, 472.
The complaint which, on demurrer, was adjudged to be
bad, presents-using substantially the words of the complaint-the following case:
In the year 1878 the claimant, Sanchez, purchased from
one Florenzio Berrios y Lopez, for a valuable consideration,
the office known as "Numbered Procurador [Solicitor] of the
Courts-of First Instance of the capital of Porto Rico," at,
Guayamo, in perpetuity, and in the same year the Governor
General of Porto Rico issued a provisional patent in his favor.
In 1881 the claimant's tenure of the office was approved and
confirmed, and a final patent therefor was issued by the King
of Spain, in accordance with the laws, practice and custom
of Spain and Porto Rico governing the sale, surrender and
transfer of such an office. The claimant, it is alleged, thereby
became vested with all the legal rights and privileges appertaining to the office.
From the date of the provisional patent issued to him until,
as will be presently stated, he was deprived of his office,
August 31st, 1899, the, claimant exercised all the rights and
privileges belonging to the office of Procurador or Solicitor.
Under the laws of Spain and Porto Rico, it will be assumed,
the office was transferable in perpetuity and vested the incumbent with exclusive rights and privileges, and as a consequence thereof the claimant was entitled under the laws of
Spain in force in Porto Rico, during all the time he held the
office, to perform its duties and receive its fees and emoluments which, prior to August 31st, 1899, averaged, it is alleged, more than $200 per month, of which he could not be
legally deprived except by due process of law.
On the tenth day of December, 1898, a Treaty of Peace
between the United States and Spain was concluded and
having been duly ratified by the respective countries, was
duly proclaimed April 11th, 1899. The Treaty contained these
provisions: "Spain cedes to the United States the island of

SANCHEZ v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Porto Rico and other islands now under Spanish sovereignty
in the West Indies, and the Island of Guam in the Marianas
or Ladrones." Art. 7. ". . . And it is hereby declared
that the relinquishment or cession, as the case may be, to
which the preceding paragraph refers, cannot in any respect
impair the property or rights which by law belong to the
peaceful possession of property of all kinds, of provinces,
municipalities, public or private establishments, ecclesiastical
or civic bodies, or any other associations having legal capacity
to acquire and possess property in the aforesaid territories
renounced or ceded, or of private individuals, of whatsoever
nationality such individuals may be." Art. 8.
A military government was organized in Porto Rico and
was maintained there from October, 1898, up to and after
April 30th, 1900. On the latter date, General Davis, as Military Governor, issued what is known as General Order 134,
containing these among other paragraphs: "XI. The office of
Solicitor ('procurador') is abolished. Those who have heretofore practiced as such before any couirt and are of good repute
shall, in default of lawyers, have the right to be appointed
municipal judges or clerks of Municipal Courts. XII. Hereafter, litigants who do not al))ear personally shall be represented before the Supreme Court and District Courts exclusively by a lawyer, no powers of attorney being necessary
therefor; it shall be the duty of the courts to suspend from the
practice of his profession any lawyer who shall, without
authority, assume to represent a litigant; but this shall not
affect the civil or criminal liability which such lawyer may
thereby incur. In the Municipal Courts, litigants may, iepresent themselves or may be represented by an attorney in fact,
resident of the place. XIII. For the 1)r9pose of.conducting
the proceedings, lawyers may make use of such agents as they
may by witing designate to the court," That, ordr was issued
without notice to claimant and-without any comlplaillt being
made as to the manner in which he was exercising his rights
or discharging his duties.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

On the twelfth day of April, 1900, Congress passed (to take
effect May 1st, 1900) what is known as the Foraker Act temporarily to provide revenues and civil government for Porto
Rico and for other purposes. That act contained this provision: "Sec. 8. That the laws and ordinances of Porto Rico
now in force shall continue in full force and effect, except as
altered, amended or modified hereinafter, or as altered, or
modified by military orders and decrees in force when this act
shall take effect, and so far as the same are not inconsistent or
in conflict with the statutory laws of the United States not
locally inapplicable, or the provisions hereof, until altered,
amended, or repealed by the legislative authority hereinafter
provided for Porto Rico, or by act of Congress of the United
States." 31 Stat. 77, 79, c. 191, April 12, 1900.
The reasonable value, the claimant alleges, of the" transferable" or "Numbered Procurador of the Courts of First
Instance of the capital of Porto Rico," in perpetuity, was
$50,000, for which amount he asks judgment. No compensation has ever been made to claimant for the loss of his office,
and no action has been taken on his present claim either by
Congress or by any Department of the United States Government.
Such is the case made by the claimant in his petition.
The claimant proceeds in his petition on the ground that the
effect of the eighth section of the act of Congress of April 12th,
1900, was to confiscate, finally and effectually, without compensation to him, the office which he claims to have lawfully
purchased in perpetuity, prior to the occupation of Porto
Rico by the military forces of the United States, and the
cession of that Island to this country; which confiscation, he
insists, could not have been legally done without violating
the Treaty between the United States and Spain which was
in force when the act of 1900 was passed.
We do not think that the present claim is covered by the
Treaty. It is true that a Treaty negotiated by the United
States is a part of the Supreme Law of the Land, and that it is

SANCHEZ v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

expressly provided in the Treaty in question that it "cannot
in any respect impair the property or rights which by law belong to the peaceful possession of property of all kinds . . .
of private individuals." But, clearly, those provisions have no
reference to public or quasi-public stations, the functions and
duties of which it is the province of government to regulate or
control for the welfare of the people, even where the incumbents of such stations are permitted, while in the discharge
of their duties to earn and receive emoluments or fees for
services rendered by them. The words in the Treaty "property

.

.

.

of private individuals," evidently referred to

ordinary, private property, of present, ascertainable value and
capable of being transferred between man and man.
When the United States, in the progress of the war with
Spain, took firm, military possession of Porto Rico, and the
sovereignty of Spain over that Island and its inhabitants and
their property was displaced, the United States, the new
Sovereign, found that some persons claimed to have purchased, to hold in perpetuity, and to be entitled, without
regard to the public will, to discharge the duties of certain
offices or positions which were not strictly private positions
in which the public had no interest. They were offices of a
quasi-public nature, in that the incumbents were officers of
court, and in a material sense connected with the administration of justice in tribunals created by government for the
benefit of the public. It is inconceivable that the United
States, when it agreed in the Treaty not to impair the property or rights of private individuals, intended to recognize,
or to. feel itself bound to recognize, the salability of such
positions in perpetuity, or to so restrict its sovereign.authority
that it could not, consistently with the Treaty, abolish a
system that was entirely foreign to the conceptions of the
American people, and inconsistent with the spirit of our
institutions. It is true that Congress did not, we assume,
intend by the Foraker Act to modify the Treaty, but if that
act were deemed inconsistent with the Treaty the act would

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

prevail; for, an act of Congress, passed after a Treaty takes
effect, must be respected and enforced, despite any previous or
existing Treaty provision on the same subject. lRibas y Hijo
v. United States, 194 U. S. 315, 324, and authorities cited.
If, originally, the claimant lawfully purchased, in perpetuity,
the office of Solicitor (Procurador) and held it when Porto
Rico was acqluired by the United States, he acquired and held
it subject, necessarily, to the power of the United States to
abolish it whenever it conecived that the p ulblic interest demanded that to he done. The intention of C(ngress in relation to the office of Solicitor or Procuralr by the Foraker
.\ct calilot be doul)te(d-ind(e(d, its abolition by (ongress is
made the ground of the l)rsent actio and claim. Upon the
acquisition of Porto lieo that Island was plaIed under military
governIlent, subject, until Congress ae('(d ill
the premises, to
the authority of the President as Commander-in-Chief acting
under the Constitution and laws of the United States. Porto
Rico was made a Department by order of the President on
the eighteenth of October, 1898. By his sanction, it must be
presumed, General Order No. 134 was made, abolishing the
office of Solicitor or Procurador. That order was recognized
by Congress, if such recognition was essential to its. validity,
when Congress, by the Foraker Act of 1900, provided that the
laws and ordinances of Porto Rico, then in force, should continue in full force and effect, except "as altered or modified by
military orders in force" when that act was passed. It is clear
that claimant is not entitled to be compensated for his office
by the United States because of its exercise of an authority
unquestionably possessed by it as the lawful sovereign of the
Island and its inhabitants. The abolition of the office was
not, we think, in violation of any provision of the Constitution, nor did it infringe any right of property which the claimant could assert as against the United States. See O'Reilly
de Cainara v. Brooke, 209 U. S.45, 49. The judgmeint of the
Court of Claims nmst be affirmed.
It iso ordered.

