OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

corporation to do.business in the State and other for the right
to be a corporation. The fact is that both corporations do the
same busine.sjil.character and kind, and-under the statute in
question a foreign corporation may be taxed many thousands

of dollars for the privilege of doing, within the State, exactly
the same business as the domestic corporation is permitted
.to do by a tax upon its privilege, amounting to only a few,
hundred dollars. We hold, therefore, that to tax the foreign
cQrporation for carrying on business under the circumstances
shown, by a different and much more onerous rule than is used
in taxing domestic corporations for the same privilege, is a
denial of the equal protection of the laws, and, the plaintiff
being in position to invoke the protection of the Fourteenth
Amendment, that such attempted taxation under a statute of
the State, does violence to the Federal Constitution.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is therefore reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
'Dissenting:

THE 'CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE .McKENN;A

and MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
GASTON.
CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY v.
SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

Nos. 4 1, 466. Argued December 16, 17, 1909.-No. 466. Submitted
January 3, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.
Decided on the authority of Southern Railway Go. v..Grene', ante, p. "400.
49 So. Rep. 412, reversed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. v. GASTON. 419
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Gregory L. Smith, with whom Mr. H. L. Stone was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error in No. 451.
Mr. Alfred P. Thorn, with whom Mr. Alexander Pope
Humphrey and Mr. James Weatherly were on the brief, for
Southern Railway Company, plaintiff in error in No. 450, argued simultaneously herewith.
Mr. Robert E. Steiner, Mr. Leon Weil, Mr. T. M. Cunningham, Jr., Mr. A. R. Lawton and Mr. Horace Stringfellow for
plaintif4 in error in No. 466, submitted.
Mr. Alexander Garber, Attorney General of the State of Alabama. and Mr. Samuel-Weakley, with whom Mr. Henry C.
Selheimer was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

No. 451 was argued ahd submitted with Southern Railway
Co. v. Greene,.No. 450, just decided. Nos. 451 and 466 were
argued at the same time in the Supreme Court of Alabama with
the case of Southern Railway Co. v. Greene, No. 450, and were
decided on the authority of that case. That court said (49 So.
Rep. 412): "These cases [Nos. 450, 451 and 466] werp argued,
submitted and considered together, and the points raised by the
pleadings in each case arc, for convenience, treated of and embodied in one opinion," referring to the opinion in the Greene
case.
These cases are embraced within the opinion in the Greene
case in this court. For the reasons stated in that case both of
these cases arc -reversed, and remanded to the Supreme Court
of Alabama for further proceedings consistent with that
opinion.
Mr. Justice Lurton was not on the bench when Nos. 450 and
451 were argued and submitted. No. 466 was submitted after
he took his seat on the bench, and 1 am permitted to say, for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
216 U. S.

Syllabus.

reasons Stated in the opinion iin No. 450, Soulhern RBilway Co.
v. Greene, heconcurs in the judgment in No. 41i(.
Rieversed.
Dissenting:'THE

CHIEF JUSTICE,

,IUSTICE
MU1R.

MCKENNA

and MR.JUSTICE HOLMES.

WRIGHT, COMPTROLLEI GEl N I RAI, OF THE STATE
OF GEORGIA, .GEORGIA RAILROAD AND BANKING COMPANY.
APPEAL, FROM TIlE CIRCUIT-COURT OF TIlE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEOI(CA..
No. 70.

Argued January 11, 1910. --Decided February 21, 1910.

A special charter to a railroad corporation contained a provision of
exemption from taxation as follows: "The stock of the said company and its branches shall be exempt from taxation for and during
the term of seven years from and after the completion of the said
railroads, or any of them; and after that, shall be subject to a tax not
exceeding one-half of one per cent, per annum, on the net proceeds
.of their investments," in construing this provision held that:
The words "after that" are equivalent to the word "thereafter" and
.relate to the entire period of time after the expiration of the seven
years of total exemption, and are not to be construed as limited by
another provision in' the charter for a definite period during which
the corporation should have exclusive rights.
The capital stock of a corporation is the capital upon which the business is to be undertaken and is represented by property of every
kind-acquired by the company, while the shares are muere certifi.cates representing a subscriber's contribution to the, capital stock
and measuring his interest in the conpany. This distinction is obvious, although the words " stock " and " shares " are sometimes
used synonymously.
The stock exempted in this case was the capital or property, of the
corporation and not the shares of stock in the hands of the stockholders.
The Federal courts accord to a judgment of the state court only that
effect given to it by the courts of the State in which it was rendered;
and where the highest court of a State has held that a judgment in

