HAWAIIAN TRUST CO. v. VON HOLT.
Coun6el fur Parties.

216 U. S.

HAWAIIAN TRUST COMPANY, LIMITEI), ET AL].,
EXECUTOR,. v. VON I[OIl'T ET AL., TRUSTEES.'
SAME v. SAME.,
APPEALS FROM THE SUPRENIMF COURT. OF THE TERRItTORY OF
HAWAII.
Nos. 106, 107. .Argued

January 26, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

A provision that a definite amount of net income be paid by trusteps
to the, widow does not entitle her to income from the death of the
testator, but only from after the executors have.been discharged
and the property turned over to the trustees.
This rule applies even if, after acceptance by the widow, of the provision in lieu of dower, it appears that the provision is not as ad-

vantageous to' her as though she elected to take her dower.
In.considering whether a provision in a will is as advantageous as
dower interest, the fact that the widow is an executor and receives
commissions may be considered.
18 Hawaii,, 34, 342, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in

the opinion.

Mr. Aldis' B. Brouwe, with whom Mr. Alexander Briton,
Mr. Evans Brourne, .Mr. Sidney M. Ballou, Mr. Ma'aon F
Prosser, Mr. Robbins B. Anderson, Mr. F. E. Thonjpvon and
Mr. C. F. ,Clemons were on the. brief for appellants.
Mr. E. A1. 'atson, guardian ad liteni and attorney for appellees, Kawananakoa heirs.
Mr.
ih . L. Stanley, Mr. Henry Holmes and Mr. C. H. Ol0sen
fImr the trustees, appellees, submitted.
docket titles, No. 106, Abigail K. Campbell Parker,
Alpcll-it, v.Abigail K.. Camplell Parker and otiers, Trustees, etCo.;
No. 107, Sa me v. Same. On October 11, 1909, steggvstion of death
of appellant and substitution of Hawaii'jan 'lrust ( )i 1a1.y as a p1Original

pellant.

January 24, 1910, suggestion of death of a )pelle :u(I sub-

stitution of Hlannah Martin Von Holt as trustee, appd1ce.

OCTl( )hB.E 'J. I I ;I t 11,

I '.) )!).

Opinionj of the Udurt.

MR. JUSTIcE; HOLMN, S

211; 1 . S.

delivered the opinion of the c(urt.

These are bills in equity, brought by the resl)odents, tristees under the will of James Campbell, for instructions as
to the meaning of a clause in the will. .James Campbell ,lied
on April 21, 1900, leaving large amounts of real and personal
property. His will was proved on June.26, 1900. By it the
same. persons were made, first, executors, and afterwards
trustees. On July 3, 1905, a decree of distribution was made
discharging the executors and ordering them to turn the
property over to themselves as trustees. The testator left a
widow and children, and the question before the .rurt is
whether the widow, the appellant, is entitled to any part of'
the income from realty before the same came to the trustecs'
ha nds. The bill.in No. 106 originally raise(d other questions,
bitt the widow is the only appellant, Anhd what we,have stated
is the single matter here. The Supreme ('ourt de(ei led against
the al)lelhant on -the merits in )106,the principal case. 18
Hawaii, 34. The bill in 107 was filed after the decree in 106,
on the notion that the dcree did not fix the time when the
widow'ยง income from rcalty began. The Supreme Court regarded the matter as res judicata, but discussed the merits
again, and then affirmed a decree dismissing the bill. 18
Hawaii, 342.
By the first clause of the will the executors were to reduce
all the estate, real and personal, to possession, to volleCt the
income thereof " pending the distribution thereo f' as thereinafter provided and to have the value adjudged.. By the
secon(, they were to 1)ay the (ebts And funeral expenses. By
the third, there wAh given to the widow a sum of money equal
to one-third of the valie of the personal property only, adjudged as above, after payment of debts, etc. This sum was
to be paiI in cash, and if the condition 4f the'estate should
not warrant thei payinent of the whole at one timie, then it,
w's to Ibe paid "as rapilly as the inccnmeand interests of my
Ct ate shall lcrmit., without the sale of any real estate, or

HAWAIIAN TRUST CO. v. VON HOLT.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the sacrifice of any personal property, as a means of raising
such sum, but provided that the entire sum be paid within
two years from the date of my decease, and rio deferred paymeats shall, within said period of two years, draw any interest." The fourth clause gives the use and occupation ofthe testator's dwelling houseand grounds, furniture, horses,.
carriages, etc., to the widow, and to the children so long as
they remain. unmarried, and the executors or trustees are to
keep the house and grounds in suitable condition and repair
at the charge of the estate; with. further details. The fifth
clause directs the executors to pay to 'he widow "for the
use of herself and our children, as a family allowance, such
sum, monthly," as may be decreed by the Probate Court,
and the trustees after entering upon their functions are to
make such further provision for the maintenance of the children as is thereinafter directed. .By the sixth clause, after
satisfying-the second and third, the executors "shall, as soon
as may be, conclude the probate proceedings hereunder, andobtain a decree of distribution of my estate," and the testator
gives to the trustees and to those living and resident within
the Hawaiian Islands at the date of such decree all the residue
of the estate not before otherwise devised or bequeathed.
The trusts, so far as material, after a further provision in
clause seven as to the house and grounds and their contents,
are as fpllows: "Eighth. With respect to all property which
shall be so distributed to them," except that mentioned in
seven, the trustees are to reduce it to possession and manage it, paying charges and their own cmmissions. "And to
collect all the :rents, issues, profits, income and revenue
thereof"
... "and to invest and reinvest, and keep invested,P and at will to chang:e the investment of any and all
moneys that shall come.to their hands by virtue hereof" not
otherwise specially disposed of, "and to segregatb, and keep
sepa'ate and'ipart, (during the life of my wife,) theoaccounts
of and pertaining to the realty of my Estate from the accounts
pertaining to~any alid all othei' thereof." "Ninth: And from
VOL. ccxNI---24

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

and out of the net incpme, rents, issues and profits of and
from the realty last aforesaid said Trustees shall . pay the
equal One Third part or portion thereof, in semiannual or,
(at the discretion of said Trustees,) more frequent payments,
to my said wife, for and during the remainder of her natural
life." Habendum to her absolutely. By the tenth clause the
remaining two-thirds of the net income "from said realty"
are given to the children with a proviso for their minority
and making surplus revenues capital. Finally the sixteeith
clause states that the provision made for the widow "is intended, and shall be by her accepted, (if at all,) in lieu and
full satisfaction of her dower interest in my Estate."
It will be seen from the dates of the probate of the will,
June 26, 1900, and of the decree turning over the property
to the trustees, July 3, 1905, thit )robably a longer time WAs
taken to finish the hdministration tha the testat()r expected,
and that if the widow did not have a right to her third of the
income from the'real estate until in fact the estate went to
the trustees, she will lose a considerable sum that has accumulated in the meantime. The loss is made the more aggravating thatthe estate seems to have been ready for distribution
on February 10, 1902. Nevertheless' we think that any
doubts are artificial and agree with the Supreme Court of
Hawaii that the language of the will .is too clear to admit any
interpretation but one. It is said that the provision is in lieu
of dower and that the will as construed* leaves her worse off
than if there had been no. will. Whether that would be so or
not, if we take into account that she is one of the executors
and trustees, getting her share of the commissions, we do not
know or think of much importance. The testator seems to
treat it as an open question whether shewill accept the provision. However that may be, the words are explicit. The
eighth clause purports to deal only-with the " property which
shall be so distributed to them." That l)hrase dominates
the. whole clause. It is the rents "thereof" that they are to
collect, as by Clause one the executors were to collect all in-

HAWAIIAN TRUST CO. v. VON HOLT.
216 U. S.

371

Opinion of the Court.

come before distribution; the accounts pertaining to the realty,
that is the realty so distributed to them, are to be kept separate, and the ninth clause gives the widow one-third of the
income of "the realty last aforesaid." It is argued that under the earlier clauses the realty and accrued income would
be kept intact and that it is reasonable to suppose that the
testator meant his wife to have one-third of the income of the
land as she had one-third of the personalty. It might be
reasonable to suppose so if the testator had not declared in
terms what he meant. What he gave was not one-third of
the income [of the-realty] generally, as in Lovering v. Minot,
9 Cush. 151, and as it wastaken to be by the probate judge,
but one-third of the income of the realty 'last aforesaid,'
that is, the realty distributed to the trustees. It was onethird of the income of the realty in the hands of the trustees,
the income collected by them from it, and of which they
were to keep a separate account. Perhaps the testator thought
that the family allowance provided in clause five would be a
sufficient substitute during the relatively short time for which
he thought that the administration would last. Perhaps he
did not think of the event that has happened at all. It would
seem that the widow had herself partly to blame for the delay between February 10, 1902, and July 3, 1905, as she was
an executrix and trustee. At all events we are of opinion
that she took no income from real estate, eo nomine, before
July 3, 1905, and did take her share from that date.
Decrees affirmed.

