FRIDAY v. HALL & KAUL CO.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

great variety of ordinary necessities.

From two-thirds to

three-fourths of the goods handled were used in the running
of the hotels, upon order of the stewards. Much of the
remainder were sold to the employ6s, and the rest to customers at large, who paid in money or bartered country
supplies for goods. The average stocks carried were from
three to four thousand dollars in value. They were in a large
sense hotel commissaries. The business was done but for one
season. If we compare the volume of that done by the innkeeping business proper with that done by the stores the
minor character of the latter is plain. The hotels employed
one hundred and thirty persons; the two stores, four. The
receipts of the hotel business plus the mercantile businessfor all were kept upon one set of books-for the year 1906
were $127,136.01. The receipts for the previous year, when
no stores were operated, were $119,171.36. The volume of
mercantile business must have been small compared to the
volume of the hotel business proper. That the company was
"engaged principally" in the hotel business proper is plain.
It was, therefore, not amenable to the act.
The answer to the interrogatory of the Circuit, Court of
Appeals must, therefore, be in the negative.

FRIDAY v. HALL AND KAUL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI

TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 68.

Argued January 10, 1910.-Decided February 21,. 1910.

"Manufacturing," as used in the Bankrupt Act of 1898, has no meaning
from adjudication as used in former laws, nor has it any technical
meaning.

In construing the act the intention of Congress to in-

clude corporations engaged in manufacturing will be regarded by
giving the term a liberal, rather than a narrow, meaning.
A corporation organized to construct railroads, buildings and other

VOL. CCxvI-29

450

OCTOBER TERM; 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.'

structures, whose principal business is making and constructing
arches, walls, bridges and other buildings out of concrete, and which
buys and combines together raw materials in making the concrete

and supplies iabori machinery and materials at the place that the
contracts call for, is a corporation engaged principally.in manufacturing within the meaning of ยง 4 of the Bankrupt Act as amended
February 5, 1903, c. 487, 32 Stat. 797.
158 Fed. Rep. 593, reversed.

THE Monongahela Construction Company, a corporation
organized under the iaw of Pennsylvania, was, in air involuntary P)roceeding; adjudged a bankrupt in the Distric't
Cotirt for the Western District of Pernisylvania. Upon a
petition for review, filed by a judgment creditor, the adjudication was'set aside upon the ground that the construction
company was not "a corporation 'engaged principally iii
manufacturing," as found by tl~e bankrupt court. The opiion of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reported in 158 Fed.
Rep. 593.
From the agreed statement of facts it appears:
1st. That the Monongahela Construction Company's charter
sets out that it was organized "for the purpose of constructing, erecting and repairing railroads, traction lines, duly
incorporated, and streets, roads, buildings, structures, works
or'improvements of public or private use or utility.."
2d. That its principal business had been "making and
constructing arches, walls, and abutments, bridges, buildings,
etc., out of concrete."
3d. That "in carrying on its business it buys and combines together raw materials, such as cement, gravel and
sand in the making of concrete, and supplies labor, machinery
and appliances necessary for the proper carrying on of said
business, of constructing and erecting concrete arches, piers,
buildings and structures, and excavating therefor :at such
time and place, as its contracts call for."
4th. It has no permanent shop or factory, but has a warehouse.

FRIDAY v. HALL & KAUL CO.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Mr. Alexander J. Barron, with whom Mr. Richard A. Ford
was on the brief, for appellants:
A corporation engaged in the erection of concrete walls,
piers, abutments, bridges, etc., is, from the very nature of
its work, of necessity, principally engaged in manufacturing.
Re Bank of Belle Fourche, 152 Fed. Rep. 64; Columbia Iron
Works v. National Lead Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 99, 102; Re Niagara
Contracting Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 782; Re Marine Const. Co.,
130 Fed. Rep. 446; Re Matthews Slate Co., 144"Fed. Rep.
787; Re Quincy Granite Quarries Co., 147 Fed. Rep. 279; Re
Leighton & Co., 147 Fed. Rep. 311; Re Troy Steam Laundering
Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 266; White Mountain Paper Co. v. Morse
& Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 643; Re Church Construction Co., 157
Fed: Rep. 298; Tidewater Oil Co. v. United States, 171 U. S.
216.
Manufacture is transformation-the fashioning of raw
materials into a change of form for use; so held in Kidd v.
Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 20, and this definition is generally
adopted by the lexicographers such as Bouvier and Anderson,
Webster (1901) and Worcester. See also Carlin v. Western
Assurance CJo., 57 Maryland, 526; 5 Words and Phrases, 4347.
The bankruptcy act is not limited t&those merely engaged
in maiufacturing commodities. Re Rutland Realty Co., 157
Fed. Rep. 296.
Construction companies are not necessarily excluded from
the operation of the bankruptcy act. Re Garrisjn, Fed.
Cases, No. 5,254. Under the act of 1898, the companies have
been held to be engaged in manufacturing in Re Columbia
Iron Works, 127 Fed. Rep: 99; Re Niagara Contracting Co.,
127 Fed. Rep. 782; Re Church Construction Co., 157 Fed. Rep.
298; Re Marine Construction Co.,, 130 Fed. Rep. 446. See
also state courts'decisions. People v.-Morgan, 70 N.Y. 516;
Commonwealth v. Keystone Bridge Co., 156 Pa. St. 500; Commonwealth.v. Pittsburg Bridge Co., 156 Pa. St. 507.
The act of 1898, ยง4b and its amendment should receive
a liberal construction. Re Mary Hatch Riggs, 214 U. S. 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Respondent.

216 U. S.

Where Congress enacts legislation containing words or
phrases which have been judicially construed under other
acts upon the same subject, it is presumed to know of such
construction and to have adopted the construction of such
words and phrases previously made. United States v. Hermanos y Compania, 209 U. S.- 337; United States v. U. Falk &
Bro., 204 U. S. 143, 152; The Devonshire, 13 Fed. Rep. 39, 42.
Acts of Congress should be construed. in view of the history
and circuiinstances surrounding their enactment. Pratt v.
Union Pacific Railroad, 99 U. S. 48, 62; United States v. Laws,
163 U. S. 258, 262; Mobile & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Tennessee,
153 U. S. 486, 502; Church of the Holy Trinity v. United States,
143 U. S. 457, 463; Bond v. Hoyt, 13 Pet. 273. In order to
determine the purpose of Congress earlier legislation upon
the same subject may be examined to arrive at a proper interpretation of a given act. Lawrence v. Allen, 7 How. 785,
792-; Re Morton Boarding Stables, 108 Fed. Rep. 791, 794.
The legislative intent prevails over the strict wording of the
statute. Church of the Holy Trinity v. United States, 143 U. S.
457; Oates v. National Bank, .100 U. S._230, 244; Wheeler v.
McCormick, 8 Blatchf. 27, 276.
Mr. Geo. L. Roberts, with whom Mr. Eugene H. Baird was
on the brief, for respondent:
The words "engaged principally in manufacturing" have
their ordinary and usual significance. Manufacturing in the
ordinary acceptance of the term, means the making of articles
or commodities that can be transported or sold at some other
place than that where they are made. Loveland's Bankruptcy, 147. See definitions of "manufacturing" by the leading lexicographers, such as Webster, Worcester, Universal,
Standard. In no definition given by any lexicographer, is
the term "manufacturing" applied to one engaged in the production or construction of -an article which mpst be affixed
to the realty, and whose use and value is destroyed the moment
it is detached from the real estate to which it is affixed. -S~e

FRIDAY v. HALL & KAUL CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Re Keystone Coal Co., 109 Fed. Rep. 872; Re Chicago-Joplin
Lead Co., 104 Fed. Rep. 67; Re Columbia Iron Works v.
National Lead Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 29; Re NiagaraConstruction
Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 782, and other cases cited by appellant.
Butt v. C. F. MacNichol Const. Co., 140 Fed. Rep. 840.
In arriving at the construction of the words in this case,
debates in Congress are not to be considered any more than
in the construction of other acts passed by it. United States
v. Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290. The. words in contrQversy should be construed according to their common and
accepted meaning. Lewis v. United States, 92 U. S. 618, 621.,
There should be no construction where there is nothing to
construe. United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 95; Cherokee
Tobacco, 11 Wall. 621; United States v. Temple, 105 U. S. 97.
MR.

JUSTICE

LURTON, after stating the facts as above,

delivered the opinion of the court.
Section four of the Bankrupt Act, as amended by ยง3 of the
act bf'February 5, 1903, c. 487, 32 Stat. 797, reads thus:
"Any natural person, except a wage-earner, or a person
engaged chiefly-in farming or the tillage of the soil, any unincorporated company, and any corporation engaged principally
in manufacturing, trading; printing, publishing, mining or mercantile pursuits, owing debts to the amount of one thousand
dollars or over, may be adjudged an involuntary bankrupt upon
default or an impartial trial, and shall be subject to the provisions and entitled to the benefits of this act. Private bankers,
but not national banks or banks incorporated under State or
Territorial laws, may be adjudged involuntary bankrupts."
The single question is, whether the Monongahela Construction Company, upon the facts stated above, was a corporation
principally engaged in the business of "manufacturing," within
the meaning of the act. If it was, the adjudication shouldstand.
The corporate powers of the company were"very broad, It

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

is possible that it might have so limited its functions as not
to have comc under any reasonable definition of manufacturing; but at last the question of whether it was principally
engaged in manufacturing must turn more upon what it was
actually doing than upon what itwasauthorized to do.
It must be conceded that the word "manufacturing," as
used in the bankrhtpt act, has no definite legislative meaning
by reason of adoption from other bankrupt acts, as is the case
with the words "trader" or "trading," and perhaps other
words with well-understood common law meanings.
Though British bankrupt acts were in existence from the
time ofHenry VIII, they applied only to "traders" until 1860,
when they were extendedto other persons. Our own original
act, that of 1800, applied only to traders, bankers, brokers and
uinderwriters. The act of 1841 added "merchants." The
act of 1867 extended practically to all persons and corporations. That of 1898 limited the wide application of the act of
1867 to the class of business corporations enumerated. Thus
it is that the words "manufacture" and "manufacturing"
have no meaning derived from adjudications of any former law.
Undoubtedly Congress intended that that class of business
corporatioiis engaged in any class of manufacturing, as.its
principsal businkss, and not as a mere minor incident to some
larger work, should be subject to the law; and this intention
should be regarded, by giving to doubtful words and terms a
liberal rather than a narrow meaning. 'Manufacturing
" has
no technical meaning. It is not limited by the means used
in making, nor by the kind of l)roduct produced. In Kidd v.
Pearson, 128 IU.S. 1, 20, Mr. Justice Field said that "manufacture is transformation, the fashioning of raw material into
a change of form or use."
In Tide Water Oil Company v United States, 171 U. S. 210,.
216, Mr. Justice Brown, referring to the expansion of the meaning of the word "manufacture," said that" the word is now ordinarily used to denote an article upon the material of which
labor has been expended to make the finished product."

FRIDAY v. HALL & KAUL CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Concrete is-an artificial stone.

It is a product resulting

from a combination of sand or gravel or broken bits of limestone, with water and cement; a combination which requires
ordinarily the use of both skill and machinery. It is not denied
that if concrete ina shape adapted to use and in finished form
is supplied to others for the making of a house, bridge, pier,
arch or abutment, that the corporation making such blocks or
shapes would be in the most narrow sense one engaged in
mamfacture. But it is urged that this corporation made these
blocks or shapes at the place where used, and that, as finished,
they becarne a part of a p)rinci)al structure and affixed to the
realty; and that, therefore, they were notengaged in manufacturiling, w'hich, say cotunsel, is a business confined to those
who makea,ti.les which may be "transported and soldat
s othe
Itir
place t'mi t-hat where made."
The )ro(hd ti( o ( concrete arches, or piers, or abutments, is
the result. of successive steps. The combination of raw material, the sa nd, the linestolie, the temeit aId the water prodlucd at i odit, whi titioubtedly was "manufactured.''
Thisiel'(,it, iad t hiei to be given shape. That required the
iti:iiit:icttivre of filoilts, which remin iii place until hardenilg occurs. It tte vo iiret-e is reinforced, as is the case where
great strellgthI is require, thien the adjustment of the bars of
steel wit hiln tte iiiths was ,nI'thier step'. Do all of these
steps, cacth :a step iii imifntil(.turing," cease to be "manufacturing (,
becase the mnotilds into which the concrete is
poured, whell iil
a flui(l state, are uipon the spot where the
filnished ]rodlit is to .r(,laill? That the operation of makilg amnd sha ping the eaicrete is done at the place used seems

rather a imatter of coivliielice, due to tie quick hardening in
uttouhls a itt(l
ifliutllties of tr.aislportat ion. But, as we may take
notice, the operation which intei(nd is to iroducean arch, or

abutilient, or pier, or t(iuse, is niot necessarily a single operation, but one of successive repetitions of the process. The
business is not itlentical with that of a mere builder or constructor who puts together the brick, or stone, or wood, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
" 216 U. S.

Syllabus.

iron, as finished by another. If the builder made his brick,
shaped his 'timbers, and joined them all together, he would
plainly be a manufacturer as well as a builder; and if the
former 'was the principal part of the business, he would be
within the definition of the bankrupt act.

To say that one

who makes and then gives form and shape to the product made
is not engaged in manufacturing because he makes his product and gives it form and shape in the place where it is to

remain, is too narrow a construction.
In a case styled In re First NationalBank, 152 Fed. Rep. 64,
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in an opinion by Sanborn, Circuit Judge, sustained an adjudication of
bankruptcy against a precisely similar corporation.
In Columbia Iron Works v. National Lead Company, 127 Fed.
Rep. 99, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals adjudged that a
corporation engaged principally in the business of building
and repairing large steel ships for sale and upon order, who
prepared and gave shape to much of the raw material, was
engaged in manufacturing.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed
and that of the District Court affirmed.

PICKETT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 270.

Submitted January 3, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

On the organization of a Territory into a State, Congress may-as it
did by the Oklahoma enabling act-transfer the jurisdiction of
general crimes committed in districts over which the United States
retains exclusive jurisdiction from territorial to Federal .courts,
and may extend such jurisdiction to crimes committed before and
after the enabling act. See United States v. Brown, 74 Fed. Rep. 43.

