OCTOBER TERM, 1909.

322'

Syllabus.

216 U. S.

"shall be written upon or attached" to the policy. The company could have used no words which would have been more
explicit. There is no ambiguity aboit them. Parol testimony was not needed Alor admissible to interpret -them.
They constituted the contract between the company and the
insth'ed. No agent had power to change or modify that contract except in the rmanner provided. This was decided in

Northern Assurance Company v. Building Association, supra.
Any other ruling would take from contracts the certain evidence of their" written words and turn them over for meaning to'the disputes Of parol testimony.
The Pennsylvania cases cited by the petitioner do not militate with the rule there announced. If they did, it might be
open to colitrove'sy how far they were binding on this court.
Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Company, 215 U. S. 349.

Judgment affirmed.

BLAKE, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. OPENHYM.
APFEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT O

APPEALS FOR TilE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 71.

Subenitted January 11, 1910.-Decided February 12, 1910.

The judgment in this case that the vendor of goods sold to the bankrupt had a 'right to, and did, rescind the contract of sale on the

grouid that. the goods were obtained by the bankrupt's fraud, and
that the rescission was seasonably made on that ground, involves
no provision of the-bankruptcy law, but depends on principles of
general law, and an appeal will not lie to this court from the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals. Chapman v. Bowen, 207
U. S. 89.

Where, after writ of replevin, the state court turns the goods over to
the receiver, who sq receives them, on the express conditiQn that he
assume the liabilities incurred in that court which has held that
the liability under the re:delivery bond was incurred for benefit of
the estate, no provision of the bankruptcy act is involved that

would make the decision reviewable in this court on wilt of error.

BLAKE v. OPENHYM.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Where, after replevin, the paramount authority of the bankruptcy
court is conceded and the replevin suit is considered only as evidence
of rescission and identification of goods,' no provision of the bankruptcy law-or jurisdictipn of the bankruptcy court is involved on
which a writ of error from, or an appeal to, this court can be based.
157 Fed. Rep. 536, affirmed.

TH18 facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A lexander New and Mr. Edwin A. Krauthoff, with
whom Mr. J. V. C. Karnes, Mr. Samuel Feller, and Mr.
Arthur Miller were on the brief, for appellant:
Under the baAruptcy law of 1867 this court assumed
jurisdiction, inter alia, of the following cases on writs of error
to state courts: Forsythe v. Vehmeyer, 177 U.: S. 177; Sharpe
v. Doyle, 102 U. S. 686; Factors' &c. Co..v. Murphy, 111 U. S.
738, 741; Mays\v. Fritton, 131 U. S. cxiv; Dushane v. Beall,
161 U.S. 513, 518; Williams v. Heard, 140 U. S. 529; Traer v.
Clews, 115 U. S. 528, 533, 534; New Orleans &c. R. R. Co. v.
Delamore, 114 U. S. 501, 506; Palmer v. Hussey, 119 U. S.
96; Hennequin v. Clews, 111 U. S.676.
Under the bankruptcy law of 1898, this court has assumed
jurisdiction in the following cases, coming to this court under
the provision of § 25b, from the Circuit Court of Appeals:
Pirie v.. Chicago Title & Trust Co., 182 U. S. 438; Pickens v.
Roy, 187 U. S. 177; Page v. Edmunds, 187 U. S. 596 Jaquith
v. Alden, 189 U,*S. 78; New York Co. Nat. Bank'S. Massey,
192 U. S. 138; Hewit v. Berlin Mach. Wks,- 194 U. S. 296;
Western Tie & Timber Co. v. Brown, 196 .U.S. 502; Whitney
v. Dresser, 200 U. S. 532; York Mfg. Co. v. Cassell, 201 U.'S.344; Conboy v. First Nat. Bank, 203 U. S. 141; New Jersey
v. Anderson, 203 U. S. 483; Hiscock v. Varick Bank, 206 U. S.
28;Gazlay v. Williams, 210 U. S. 41.
Under the bankruptcy law of 1898, the following cases
have been -reviewed by this court on writ of error to a state
court: Dunbar v. Dunbar, 190 U. S. 340; Kean v. Calumet
Canal, 190 U. S. 452; Tin1ker v. Colwell, 193 U. S.473; Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S. 176; Kaufman v. Tredway, 195 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

271; Birkett v. Columbia Bank, 195 U. S. 345; Cramer. v.
Wilson, 195 U. S. 408; Bullis v. O'Beirne, 195 U. S. 606;
Wetmore v. Markoe, 196 U. S. 68; First Nat. Bank v. Lasater,
196 U. S. 115; Thompson v. Fairbanks,198 U. S. 516; Humphrey v.' Tatman, 198 U. S. 91; Hammond v. Whitredge, 204
U. S. 538.
An examination of the opinion in the Circuit Court of
Appeals (157 Fed. Rep. 536), shows that the result reached
depended upon the force and effect given to the action in
replevin, which was instituted after the petition in bankruptcy was instituted; in other words, the question in the
case was as to the force and effect of a proceeding in bankruptcy followed by a subsequent petition in replevin. This
clearly presents a Federal question.
The authority relied on'.by the appellees in their motion
to dismiss has'no bearing on the question presented in the
case at bar.
Since the bankruptcy law was enacted in 1898, Chapman
y. Bowen, 207 U. S.89, isthe only case in which this court
has declined :to- assume jurisdiction on an appeal or a writ
of error arising under. the bankruptcy law.
Mr. Benjamin N. Cardozo, Mr. T. J. Ringolsky, Mr. Morris
J. Hirsch and Mr. David L. White, for appellees:
This court'wil not retain jurisdiction of this case on this
appeal, as the appeal was', prayed for and allowed under
'1898,. and the record
§ 25b of the bankruptcy act of .J Ily .1,
does -not show that such questions were involved in the
decision of the case by the Court of Appeals as are necessary
in ordei to give jurisdiction to. the Supreme Court of the
United States. on appeal under § 25b. Chapman v. Bowen,
207 U. S..- 89.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This appeal was taken to review the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appealls reversing th!b disallowance of a debt due to

BLAKE v. OPENHYM.3
216 U. S.

325.

Opinion of the Court.

Openhym & Sons as a preferential claim against the estate of
Walkeen-Lewis Millinery Company (we shall call it the
millinery company).
A motion to dismiss is made on the ground that the question
involved is not one which could be brought here on writ of
error from the highest court of a State, and that no Justice
of this court has certified that a determination of the question
is essential to a uniform construction of the bankrupt act,
throughout the United States.
The facts, which. we condense somewhat from the findings
of the Court of Appeals, are, that the millinery company,
then being in the millinery business at Kansas City, Missouri,
obtained; by false representations of its liabilities, goods 'of
the value of three thousand one hundred and twenty-five
dollars and seventy cents from Openhym & Sons of New
York city. Subsequently', a suit was brought against the
millinery company by another creditor and-a receiver was
appointed of all its property. 'The receiver of the property
forthwith took possession, and under the orders of the court
continued its sale. A few days afterwards certain other
creditors of the millinery company filed a petition in the
District Court of the Western District of Missouri to have the
company declared a bankrupt. Four days later the company
admitted its insolvency and consented that it be declared a
bankrupt.
Openhym & Sons, the appellees, asserting that their goods
had been obtained from them by the millinery company by
false representations of its- solvency, demanded possession
of the goods from the state court'sreceiver. Possession was
refused,-and Openhym & Sbns, having. obtained from the
state court permission to do so, brought an action of replevin
against the receiver and the millinery company. "Process
was duly served on both defendants. In the execution -of the
replevin writ but $2,582.80 worth of the goods obtained from
Openhym & Sons were found.- The sheriff, in executing the,
writ, separated the goods so found fromthe remainder of the

OCTOBER TERM. 1909.
Opinion of the Court."

216 U. S.

stock then in possession of the state court receiver, and took
them into his own possession. The receiver thereupon gave a
re-delivery bond, resumed possession of the goods, put them
back into the stock, .and continued sales therefrom."
* On September 23, 1905, the millinery company was adjudged a bankrupt. Before the date of the adjudication no
receiver hkd been appointed by the District Court, and no
order had been made affecting the property in the possession
of the state court or the coitinuance of the sales thereof by
.the state court receiver. On the day of the adjudication of
bankruptcy Daniel F. Blake, appellant, was appointed-receiver.
in bankruptcy and was directed to apply to the state court
for an order, on its receiver for the possession of the property.
He was firther directed that before taking possession, he
,should reqjuest the state court to fix and determine the liabilities which its own receiver had incurred for the benefit of the
estate. "The order of direction to the receiver in bankruptcy
contained this clause: 'The liabilities incurred by the said
receiver appointed by the state court shall be assumed and
paid by the receiver herein.'"
.On September 25, 1905, the state court stated the liabilities
incurred by its receiver, and in ddition thereto recited the
proceedings in the replevin action brought by. Openhym &
Sons, and found -that whatever liability had been incurred
under the re-delivery bond had been incurred for the benefit
of the estate. The court then ordered' the delivery of the
property to the receiver in bankruptcy upon the conditions
that the hitter should-,:siume and pay the liabilities recited
and the liability arisifig under the re-delivery bond. It was
not shown what part of the goods in' controversy actually
passed into the possession of the receiver in bankruptcy, but
it was shown that all of the stock remaining unsold, and all
of the proceeds of sales by the state court receiver, largely in
the form of custoniers' accounts, were, less exptrnse of conducting the business, turned over to the receiver in bankruptcy.

BLAKE v. OPENHYM.
216 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

October 2, 1905, the receiver in bankruptcy sold all of the
property of the millinery company; on the thirteenih the
receiver was selected as trustee; on the twenty-seventh the
District Court ruled Openhym & Sons to show cause why
they should not be enjoined from p)rosecuting the action of
replevin and temporarily enjoined them from doing so;
December 1 the temporary inj unction was made permanent.
On )ecember 10, 1905, a dividend upon the claims against
the estate of the millinery company wds declared, but its
payment left the greater portion of the estate in the hands
of the trustee. Up to that time Openhym & Sons had not
intervened and p!esented their claim for preferential payment, but this fact had no effect upon the declaration of the
dividend and no creditor was.prejudiced thereby.
December 21, 1905, Openhym & Sons intervened and
presented their claim for $2,582.80 as a preferred one. On
March 24, 1906, it was found by the referee to be entitled to
be allowed as such. Upon petition for review, the District
Court reversed the finding. Upon appeal the Circuit Court
of Appeals substantially found the above facts and reversed
the decree o f the District Court. 157 Fed. Re1 ): 536.
The coiilchlisiotis of law of the Circuit Court' of Appeals were
as. follows:
"1' There were sufficient grounds for a rescission of the sale
by Openhym & ON,
Sos, the right of rescission was seasonably
asserted, and the right was not impaired or destroyd by the
commencement of bankruptcy proceedings ag'ainst the vendee
who obtained the goods by fraud. The receiver and trustee
in baiikruptcy had no greater right or title to the, goods in
coittroversy than the bankrupt had.
"2. It was competent for the bankruptcy court to permit
the 'pros.cutionof the replevin action in the state court for the
recovery of the goods. The continuance of such prosecution
was lawful up to the time itwas forbidden by the injunction
of the bankruptcy court. -The commencement and prosecution of that action, though subsequently enjoined, was avail-

328

OCTOBER TERM, .1909.
Opinion of the -Court.

216 U. S.

able to Openhyrn & Sons as an act of rescission, and the proceedings therein could properly be resorted to in ascertaining
what part of the goods sued for was in the possession of the
state court and afterwards with proceeds of sales went into
the. possession of the bankruptcy court,
"3. There was no such delay by Openhym & Sons in intervening in the bankruptcv proceedings as estopped them from
asserting their right to a preferential, claim, for the value of
their goods.
"4. Openhym_ & Sons are entitled to an order that the
trustee pay theirdclaim out of funds-in his hands before making further payments to general, creditors."
The contention of appellee upon the motion is that the bankruptcy law limits-the right of appeal to two classes of cases,
in neither of which, it'is further contended, the case at bar
falls: (1) where the amount in controversy exceeds a thousand
dollars and the question involved is one that might have been
taken on appeal ot writ of error from the highest court of a
State to the Supreme Court of the United States; (2) where a
Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States shall certify
thht the determination of the question involved is essential
to a uniform construction of the act throughout the United
States.
The consideration of the second- ground we can immediately
dismiss, as there is no such certificate. Of the othei, or first
ground, it is urged. that Chapman v. Bowen, 207 U. S. 89, is
decisive. In that case the facts were that there was bo'rowed
from .Bowen, on two different occasions, the sum of five
thousand dollars, for which two promissory notes were given,signed by the firm of A. McCoy & Company and by the individual names of Alfred McCoy andThomas McCoy, the
proceeds of the transactions going into the pirtnership business. The firm and the individuals became bankrupt, and
the notes were presented as .claims against the firm and allowed to the extent of thirty per cent. A claim was presented
for the balance against the estate of Alfred McCoy, and dis

BLAKE v. OPENHYM.
216 U. S.

329

Opinion of the Court.

allowed by the referee, whose decision was affirmed by the
District Court. The decision was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. In re McCoy, 150 Fed. Rep. 106. An
appeal was allowed to this court by a judge of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which, on motion, was dismissed, on the
ground that a writ of error' from the highest court of the
State 'to this court could not be maintained, because no
validity of a treaty-or statute of, or an authority exercised
under, the United States, was drawn 'in question; nor the
validity of a statute of, or any authority exercised under,'
any State, on 'the ground of repugnancy to the Constitution,
,treaties or laws of the United States; nor was any treaty,
right, privilege or immunity claimed under the Constitution
or any treaty or statute or commission held or authority
exercised under the United States, and decided against it.
It was further said that "the decision below proceeded on
well-settled principles of general law, broad enough to sustain
it without reference to provisions of the bankruptcy act."
We think that case controls this, and that the cases cited
by. appellant, of which this court, took jurisdiction, are not
apposite. The determining facts in the case at bar are that
the goods were obtained by the millinery company by fraud,
and that the sale was seasonably rescinded on that ground.
In the decision of this there was involved no provision of the
bankruptcy law. Nor is any provision of the bankruptcy law
involved in the consideration of the question whether the
goods turned over by tfie state court to the receiver in bankruptcy could be iden'tified as the goods obtained from Openhym & Sons. Surely, as decided by'the Court of Appeals, the
proceedings in the state court "could properly be resorted
to in ascertaining what part of the goods sued for was in the
possession of the state court, and afterwards what proceeds
of sales went into possession of the bankruptcy court." To
these facts must be added the important one that the goods
were ordered by the state court to be delivered to the receiver
in bankruptcy upon the express condition, and they were

.330

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

received by him subject to the condition, that .hc..should
assume and pay the liabilities incurred' in that court, that
couit finding "that whatever liability was incurred uder the
•re-delivery bond was incurred for the benefit of the estate."
It was from these facts that the Court of Appeals concluded that Openhym'& Sons were "entitled to an order that
the trustee pay their claims out of funds in his hands before
In this
making further payments to general creditors."
.conclusion we cannot see that any provision of the bank.ruptcy law was involved, so that if the decision had been
made .by a state court it would have been reviewable here on,
writ of error.
It is the contention of appellant, however, that the writ of
replevin brought by Openhym & Sons and the levy under it
"were unlawful and unapthorized acts," and that Openhym
& Sons "oould not, and did not, conserve any rights thereby."
And, further, the appellant says, "it will be observed at the
outset that 'this question goes directly to the jurisdiction of
the bankruptcy court over the res of the bankrupt after the
filing of the involuntary petition in bankruptcy."' Putting.it
another way, appellant says that " the question in the case
is as to the force 'and effect of a procedding in bankruptcy
followed by a subsequent petition in replevin." ' And, it is
insisted, that the result reached by the Court of Appeals "depended upon the force and effect: given-to .the .action in replevin,V' and that, therefore, a Federal question is presented.
This, however, proceeds from a misapprehenion of the opinion
of the Court of Appeals. The paramount jurisdiction.of the
bankruptcy court was conceded. The replevin suit was considered as showing the'purpose of Openhym & Sons to rescind'
the sale of the-goods andas a means of their identification,
as we have already pointed out. In holding it competent
for those purposes we cannot see how any provision, of the
bankruptcy law was involved.
The motion to dismiss must therefore be granted..
So ordered.

