INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. D., L. & W. R. R. 531
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

tenants. A delay of not less than four years, during which
there has been'a large appreciation in the value of the property, is unreasonable. Two courts in succession have failed
to find ground for relief, and we-see no good reason for reversing the decree from which the appellant has appealed.
It is therefore
Affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUITC.(OURT

()'V THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT 'i ()
No. 362.

NE\W

ORK.

Argued February 21, 23, 1910.-Decided March 7, 1910.

Where a statute creates a new right and a commission is given power
to extend relief it egard thereto at the instance of a specified (lass,
its power is limited thereto; and so held that the Interstate Comjmerce Commission has power to compel switch connections with
lateral branch roads under § I of the act of March 4, 1887, c. 104,
24 Stat. 379, as amended by § 1 of the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591,
34 Stat. 584, only at the instance, as stated therein, of shippers; it
has no power to do so on the application of a branch railroad.
Quapre and not decided, whether the railroad on whose behalf 'the
application in this case was made was a lateral branch road within
the meaning of the statute.
166 Fed. Rep. 49 , affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General for appellant:
Congress had power to require connecting tracks to be
installed. The power of Congress to regulate interstate
commerce is as broad in its scope as the power of -the States

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

il the regulation of their internal commerce. Wisconsin,
Minn. & J'uc. Railroad Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287.
The Ralway Valley Railroad Comln. y is, witi resl)Cct
to alppiellee, a "lateral, branch line of railroad" within the
meaning of § 1 of the act to regulate commerce, as amended.
The terms "lateral railroads'" and " branch railroads" most
frc(luently occur in cojidemnation law. They are used to
distinguish between cmere spurs and sidetracks, which are,
necessary facilities to aid in the operation of the main line,
and tracks which are not necessary to the operation of the
main line, hut are built as feders and outlets of the main
line. 'C. & E. 1. Railroad Co. v. l7illsc, 116 Illinois, 449.
Ordinarily, the term "lateral railroad" implies a line which
serves as a feeder or outlet (or both) to another main or
trunk line.
*If a railway is not a lateral branh line, it is entitled to a
connection in a proper case undei: § 3 of the act to regultc
commerce.
Whether the Rahway Company's right to a connection is
based on § 1 or on § 3, the Commission had jurisdietion to
hiear and decide the controversy under §§ 12, 13, and 14 of
the act to regulate commerce; and it also had that powci
under § 15 of the act.
The legislation is remedialan1(d (':ons(lently it should he
liberally construed for lhe benefit of those to vlion rights
arc given. The riglit to a cotnn c tion under p rolpcr (ircu nistances is, in terms, conferred upon the lateral roads.
* The Commission aving power to (ecide inl this proceeding wem't1f 1c citiusta les justify a coliIctiol bcweei
tie tracks of appell( and of the Ralhway (COl
'o any, the
propriety of its decision oil the facts cannot be reviewed by
the courts, for there certainly has been no nireasonable or
pal)ably abusive exercise of the Commission's t)opower. Itcrstate Comm. Comm. v. illnois Cent. RailroadCo., 215 U. 8.452.
The bill and affidavits filed itn support of it fail to show
a case for relief on the merits. The conditions which entitle

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v.
216 U. S.

)., L. & W. R. R. 533

Argument for Appellee.

at lateral road to a connection under § I of the act are: That
the conndction be reasonably practicable; that it can be made
with safety; and that it will fu'nish sufficient business to
justIify its construction and maintenance. The requiremenlts of § 3 ('all be no greater. Appellee tiot only has failed
to show that the stttutory conditions do tit -exist, but it
likewise has faileI to show any necessity fo.r a )reliminary
ilijuli 'tion.
Mr. William S. Jenney for appellee:
The Rahway Valley Railroad Company is not a lateral
1i'an.h line of railroad within the meaning of tile clause.
(ongress \was careful to use the limited term " laftera'l
branch line of railroad," in contradistinction to the geleral
term "'common carrier," or "railroad of a common carrier,'
which it has uniformly used in all other sections of the act
.to refer to railroads generally. Evidently it must have intended to differentiate between the two.
At common law the courts could not compel a physical
connection between two railroads, Wisconsin, M. & P. R. R.
Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 288, and the act left common
carriers free to exercise to their full extent, all the rights and
privileges they had under the common law, so far as those
rights and privileges were not rendered unlawful by the act
itself. Gamble Robinson Mfg. Co. v. Chicago & N. W. R.
Co., 168 Fed. Rep. 161; Iowa Bridge Co. v. L. & N. Ry.
Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 567.
As to the limitation to be placed upon the words "lateral
branch line of railroad," see Newhall v. Galena & C. U. Ry.
Co., 15 Illinois, 273; Blanton y. Richmond F. & P. Ry. Co.,
86 Virginia, 618; Goelet v. Met. Transit Co., 48 Hun (N. Y.),
520; 33 Cyc. 120; Standard Dictionary, under words "lateral"
and "branch."
In fact a lateral branch road is a part of or a" offshoot
from a main line.
By the clause the Commission is empowered to order a

OCTO I

H,11',
I..M,
0
1.)09.

Argument for Appellee.

216 U. S.

connection only upon complaint made by a shipper; and the.

Rahway \alley Iilroad Company is not a shipper, within
the meingllig of the clause.
("ongr(ss did not intend to so a(1d to the common law
obligations of a carrier as to reqnirie it to furnish cars to
another carrier (olle(.tiing or competing with it.
The remedy )rovided for the enforcement of the right
created by the clause, is confined to a procee(ling before the
Commission, instituted by a shipper, and that rminedy is

exclusive. Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520; Dollar Savings
Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227; 1Vheaton v. Peters, 8
Pet. 589; Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank v. Dearing, 91 IT. q.
29; (vited Slates v. Pe ryman, 100 11. S. 235; Fourth Nat.
Bank v. Franc'klyn, 120 IT. S. 747; Banks v. Manchester, 128
U. S. 244; Thomlp)on v. Hubbard, 131 U. S. 123.
At common law a railroad company was not required to
construct a S)ur track for a shipper located near its line, or
to make a p)hysical connection with another railroad. Jones
v. Neuport News & M. V. Ry. Co., (5 Fed. Rep. 736; Mercan-

tile Trust Co. v. Co/umbus S. &CH. R. Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 1418;
Vi.seonsin, M. & P. le. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 288.
The clause in question (reatcs a new right unknown to the
common law. It provi(les the remedy; and that remedy is
exclusive and nothing in §§ 12 and l; of the act affect this
rule. Durant v. Albany County, 26 Wend. (N. Y.) i5; ,lanney

v. Buell, 55 Alabama, 408; Fa'rribault v. Misener, 20 Minesota, 396; Endlich on the Iit. of Stat..10.
Congiress gave to the shipper a- right to a connection between a main line and a private side track or lateral branch
line of railroad on which the shipper might be located.

It

provided a specific and adequate remedy to enforce that
right. If Congress intended to confer the saame right to a
connection on a lateral branch lihe of riiilhoad, 'considered
apart from the interests of the shippers along that road, it
omitted to provide a specific remedy, whih is not a case of
failure to a(coml)i4h1 a clearly defined object or to give, eff ect

INTEIUSTATI
216 U. S.

COMM. COMM. v. D.,'L. & W. R. It. 535
Opinion of theCourt.

to an unmistakable intent because of the use of loose, uncertain or ambiguous language, but a plain case of omission.
The courts will not be inclined to ascribe error or mistake
to a coordinate branch of the Government. The presumption must be that the legislature acted advisedly, if not
wisely. It must be presumed to have inten(led to omit just
what it did in fact omit. See proeedings inSenate on a(loption of the clause. Cong. Rec., May 6, 1906, p. 6761; May 17,
7225; and see also pp. 7963, 8158; Reg. v. Treasury, 20 L. J.
Q. B. 312;' Jones v. Smart, I T. R. 44; United States v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 95.
MR. JUSTICE HOLME

delivered

the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by the plaintiff, appellee,
to prevent the enforcement of an order made by the appellant,
requiring the plaintiff to establish a switch connection with
the Rahway Valley Railroad Company's road. 14 I. C. C.
Rep. 191. The order was made on June 24, 1908, under the
Act to Regulate Commerce, February 4, 1887, c.104, § 1,
24 Stat. 379, as amended by the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591,
§ 1, 34 Stat. 584. Then this bill was brought; the Attorney
General filed a certificate that the case was of general public
importance; act of June 29, 1906, c.3591, § 5, 34 Stat. "590;
act of February 11, 1903, c. 544, § 1, 32 Stat. 82.3; the Interstate Commerce Commission demurred; the case was brought
up before three circuit judges; a preliminary injunction was
issued on the ground that the appellant, the Interstate Commerce Commission, had exceeded its power, and an appeal
.was taken at once and directly to this court as allowed by
the act of 1906. 166 Fed. Rep. 498.
The Rahway Valley road is about ten miles long. It runs
southeasterly from Summit through Kenilworth to Roselle,
its terminus on the Lehigh Valley Railroad, and also southwesterly from Kenilworth to Aldene, its terminus on the
Central Railroad of New Jersey, all the places named being

OCTOBER TERM, 1909,
Opinion oi the Court.

216 U. S.

in New Jersey. The Delaware, Lackawanna and Western
Railroad Company, the appellee, is a common carrier subject
to the acts of Congress regulating commerce. Between Denville, New Jersey, and Hoboken it has two branches or lines,
the Northerly, the Boonton branch, being devoted specially
to freight, the Southerly, the Morris and Essex line, devoted
as exclusively as may be to passenger traffic. This Southerly
branch passes through Summit, and theRahway Valley Railroad Company petitioned for and got an order requiring the
appellee to make a switch connection with its road at that
place. As the order interferes with the just stated policy of
the appellee as to its Southerly line, it resisted the petition
and brought this suit.
The material part of the act of Congress upon which the
Commission relies is as follows;
"Any common carrier subject to the provisions of this Act,
upon application of any lateral, branch line of railroad, or of
any shipper tendering interstate traffic for transportation,
shall construct, maintain, and operate upon reasonable terms
a switch connection with any such lateral, branch line of
railroad, or private side track which may be constructed to
connect with its railroad, where such connection is reasonably practicable and can be put in with safety and will furnish
sufficient businQss to justify the construction and maintenance
of the same; and hall furnish cars for the movement of such
traffic to the best of its ability without discrimination in favor
of or against any such shipper. If any common carrier shall
fail to install and operate any such switch or connection as
aforesaid, on application therefor in writing by any shipper,
such shipper may make complaint to the Commission, as
provided in section thirteen of this Act, and the Commission
shall hear and investigate the same and shall determine as
to the safety and practicability thereof and justification and
reasonable compensation therefor and the Commission may
make an order, as provided in section fifteen of this Act,
directing the common carrier to comply with the provisions

INTERSTATE' COMM. COMM. v. I)., L. & NV. R. R. 537
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of this section in accor( ance with such order, and such order
shall be enforced as hereinafter provided for the enforcement
of all other orders by the (omnmission, other than orders for
the paym'nt of money."
The (juiestio,, is raised whether the Rahway road is a
'lateral, 'bralch linc of railroald' relatively to the appijellee.
There certainly is force in the contention that the words of
the statute mean a railroad naturally .tributary to the line
of the common carrier ordered to make the connection, and
dependent upon it for an outlet to the markets of the country,
which, according to the bill, the Rahway road is not. There
is force in the argument that a road already having, connection
with the roads of two carriers subject to the act and having
joint routes and through rates with them cannot be regarded
as a lateral branch line of railroad of another road situated
like the appellee. On the other hand, it would be 'going far
to lay down the universal proposition that a feeder might
not be a lateral, branch-road of one line at one end and of
another at the other. We leave this doubtful question on
one 'side because we agree with the circuit judges in the considerations upon which they decided the case.
The statute creates a new right not existing outside of it.
Wisconsin, Minnesota & Pacific Railroad Co. v. Jacobson, 179
U. S. 287, 296. It is plain from the provisions of the act, the
history of the amendments and justice, that the object was
not to give a roving commission to every road that might
see fit' to make a descent upon a main line, but primarily, at
least, to provide for shippers seeking an outlet either by a
private road or a branch. The remedy given by the section
creating the right is given only on complaint by the shipper.
We are of opinion that the remedy is exclusive, on familiar
principles, and that. the general powers given by other sections'cannot be taken to authorize a complaint :to the Commission by a 'branch railroad company under § 1. If they
were applicable to a branch road they would have been equally
applicable to shippers, and there was no more reason to menr

OCTOBElR TERM, 190,.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

tion complaints by shippers than by others. The argument
that. slippers were Ientioned to insure their rights ill case
of a refusal to connect with a lateral line is excluded by the
form of the statute, whicth obviotusly is providing the only

renedy that ('ogress has in mind. It may or may not he
true that the distinction is not very effective, but it stanls
in the law and m1st, le accepted as 1he, limit. of the Commission's power.
Decree afli rmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. NORTHERN
PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM TlHiE CIRCUIT COURT OF THfi
THE DISTRICT

No. 571.

tNITEI) STATES FOR

OF MINNESOTA.

Argued l'ebruary 2:3, 24, 1910.-1)ecided March 7, 1910.

Under § 4 of the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 589, giving
the Interstate Commerce Commission power to establish through
routes and joint rates where no reasonable or satisfactory through
route exists, the existence of such route may be inquired into by
the courts, notwithstanding a finding by the commission.
When one through route exists which is reasonable and satisfactory,
the fact that the public would prefer a second which is no shorter
or better cannot overcome the natural interpretation of a provision
in the statute to the effect that jurisdiction exclusively depends
upon the fact that no reasonable or satisfactory route exists.
As the Northern Pacific route from the points named to points between Portland and Seattle is reasonable and satisfactory, the fact
that there are certain advantages in the Union Pacific or Southern
route does not give the Interstate Commerce Commission jurisdiction to establish the latter as a through route against the objection
of the Northern Pacific Railway Company.

Ti

facts are stated in. the opinion.,

