OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

PRICE v. HENKEL, UNITED STATES MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITrD STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 385.

Argued January 7, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Haas v. Henkel, ante, p. 462, followed as to jurisdiction of commissioner under ยง 1014, Rev. Stat., to remove accused who hls also been
indicted in the district from which removal is sought.
One good count in an indictment, under which a trial may be had in the
district to which removal is sought, is enough to support an order of
removal in habeas corpus proceedings, Horner v. United States, 143
U. S. 207, even though accused may be held to bail in the district
from which removal is sought on an indictment of which some of
the cohnts are similar.
But an indictment which alleges that the offense was committed in the
district where found, does not conclusively destroy the prima facie
case made in a removal proceeding by the indictment found in the
district to which removal is sought and which alleges that the offense
was committed therein, and if the commissioner also heard evidence
upon which he based his decision, that decision is not open to review in habeas corpus proceedings.
In this case the independent evidence which was offered to show that
accused was not in the district where the indictment was found was
not conclusive.
163 Fed. Rep. 904, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. DeLancey Nicoll, with whom Mr. John D. Lindsay,
Mr. Howard S. Gans and Mr. Thomas Staples Fuller were
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Jesse C. Adkins, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of
The appellant, Theodore If.

'ri((,

the court.

was, on March 1, 1909,

PRICE v. HENKEL.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

committed by a United States commissioner for the Southern
District of New York to the custody of the appellee, as marshal for that district, to await an order of removal to the District of Columbia, for trial upon two indictments, numbered
respectively 26,088 and 26,089, being two of the indictments
('oIsi(lered in the case of Haas v. Henkel, just disposed of.
Price thereu)on filed his petition in tile Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, alleging
that his imprisonment was unlawful and in violation of the
Constitution of the Inited States, and praying for a writ of
habeas corpus and certiorari, and that he might, be discharged
from such arrest. Upon a hearing, his petition was dismissed
and he was remanded to the custody of the marshal. From
this order he has prayed this appeal.
This appeal and that of Haas were argued together, the
difference between the two being slight. The two New York
ind(ictments against Price which he had been held to answer
when these removal proceedings were begun were numbered
307 and 308. The first charged him with having entered into
a eonspiracy wit.h Moses Haas, Edwin S. Holmes, Jr., and
ofhcr lperso w unknown, to defraud the United States, and the
otlher (harged him with havilig conspired witl Haas to bribe
Holmes, an official in the Statistical Bureau, of the Departmnt of Agricuture, to violate his duty. These indictments
allege the conspiracy to have been formed, in the Southern
District of New York. They are in all respects similar to the
two District of Columbia indictments against the same persons, which lay the locu., of the conspiracy in the District of
Columbia, excel)t that certain counts in the latter indictments
ch'arge particular offenses not charged in either of the New
York ii tienmetits
It is now' inisisted that the order of the commissioner committing appellant to the custody of the marshal to await a
removal is void:

1. Because ยง 1014, Rev. Stat., does not authorize a removal frot the district where an accused is found when he.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

is there under bail to answer local indictments for the same
offense.
2. That the commitment to await an order of removal was
illegal and an abuse of power, because the District of Columbia indictments did not substantially charge any offense
against the United States.
3. That.the record certified by the commissioner under the
certiorari issued by the Circuit Court does not show any evidence justifying a conclusion that there was probable cause to
believe that the appellant had committed any crime in the District of Columbia.
As two of the counts included in one of the District of Columbia indictments are for particular offenses, similar in character, but not identical with those covered by either of the
two New York indictments, it is apparent that appellant has
not been held in New York to answer all of the offenses which
he is charged with having committed in the District of Columbia, and could not be brought to trial under the New York
indictments for the offenses charged by the fifth and seventh
counts of one of the District of Columbia indictments. This
alone serves to take the case out of the precise situation presented by the first objection against the order made by the
commissioner. If there is one good count under which a trial
might be had in the district to which the removal is sought, it
is enough to support an order in a habeas corpus proceeding.
Homer v. United States, 143 U. S. 207, 214.
But for the reasons already stated in the opinion in the Haas
case, just handed down, we are of opinion that absolute identity
in the two sets of indictments does not operate to defeat a removal, if the Government elect to try in another district, and
that the only function of a commissioner before whom a removal complaint is made in such a situation is to be satisfied
that there is probable cause to believe that the accused is
guilty of an offense charged to have been committed in the
district to which the removal is sought. This case, upon this.
point, as well as upon the point that the two indictments here

PRICE v. HENKEL.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

involved do not sufficiently- charge an offense against the
United States, is governed by the opinion and judgment in
the Haas case.
This brings us to the only question which is not necessarily
concluded by the opinion in the Haas case, namely, whether
there was any substantial evidence before the commissioner
upon which he might, in the exercise of his jurisdiction, decide that there was probable cause for believing that appellant
had committed, within the District of Columbia, the offenses
cl arged in the indictments aoainst him found in that district.
That at least a primafacie case for the removal was made
by the introduction of the indictments returned against him in
the District of Columbia is not disputable. That much efficacy
is attributed to a certified copy of an indictment found in a
competent court of another district when put in evidence in a
removal proceeding. Bryant v. United States, 167 U. S. 104;
Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 249; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S.62;
Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S.73. But the evidence of probable
cause afforded by the indictment is not conclusive. For this
reason it has been held that the refusal of a commissioner to
hear evidence offered for the purpose of showing that no offense had been committed triable in the district to which removal was sought, would be a denial of a right secured under
the Constitution. Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20. But in this
case there was no closing of the door to evidence offered to

show a want of probable cause. Copies of the New York indictments against appellant for many of the same offenses

were received in evidence, as tending to show that the conspiring, if any there was, had been done in New York and not
in the District of Columbia. Some evidence tending to show
that Price was not in the District of Columbia at the time when
the conspiracies are charged to have been formed was also introduced. There was also some evidence offered questioning
the identity of the appellmt with the person accused by the
District of, Columbia indictments. The probative weight of
certified copies of the New York indictments is necessarily

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

limited to such counts as are identical in the two sets of indictments. This would leave counts five and seven of indictment No. 26,088 unaffected as evidence of probable cause,
and justify the order of commitment, although there might
be conclusive evidence that the offense charged in the other
counts had not been committe(l in the District of Columbia as
charged. Horner v. United States, 143 U. S. 207.
But it cannot be conceded that the introduction of copies
of the New York indictments operated to destroy the evidential effect of the indictments found in the District of Columbia, even as to the identical counts. In the case of Haas v.
Henkel we held that such evidence did not so conclusively destroy the evidence afforded by copies of the District of Columbia indictments as to leave no testimony upon which the commissioner might, upon the whole case, decide that there was
proof of pi'obable cause.
. The commissioner had before him competent evidence in
the certified copies of the District of Columbia indictments
upon which he might base a conclusion of probable cause. At
most, the New York indictments, together with the evidence
tending to prove that appellant had not been in the District
of Columbia at Any of the times when the conspiracy was said
to have been formed, only made an issue which the commissioner had jurisdiction to decide, and when we find from the
proceedings before him that he did hear such evidence upon
which he-might base his decision, that decision is not open for
review upon a petition for a writ of habeas cbrpus. In re Oteiza y
Cortes, 136 U. S. 330: Bryant v. United States, 167 U. q. 104;
Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 249, 261; Hyde v. Shine, 199 IT.8.
62, 84. This, is the rule as stated by Mr. .Iustice Brown, speaking for the court in Hyde v. Shine, cited above, where it,
was

said:
"In the Federal courts, however, it is well settled that upon

habeas corpus the court will not weigh the evidence, although,
if there is an entire lack of evidence to support the accusation,.
the court may order his discharge. In this case, however, the

PRICE v. HENKEL.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the indictment made at least a primafacie case
against the accused, and if the commissioner received evidence
on his behalf it was for him to say whether, upon the whole
testimony, there was proof of probable cause. In re Oteiza,
136 U. S. 330; Bryant v. United States, 167 U. S. 104. The requirement that the usual mode of process adopted in the
State shall be pursued refers to the proceedings for the arrest
and examination of the accused before the commissioner, but
1 roduction

it has no bearing upon the subsequent independent proceeding

before the Circuit Court upon habeas corpi(... In this case the
commissioner did receive evidence on behalf of the appellants,
and upon such evidence found the existence of probable cause
and committed the defendants, and, upon application to the
District Judge for the warrant of removal, he reviewed his action, but did not pass upon the weight of the evidence."
The evidence independent of that afforded by the New York
indictments, relied upon to show that appellantwas not in the
.District of Columbia when the conspiracy is charged to have
been formed, has been examined. It cannot be said to be at
all conclusive. First, it leaves out of consideration the factthat the indictments may be sustained by evidence of a conspiracy formed at dates before the finding of the indictment,
other than those named, if not barred by the statute of limitations. Ledbetter v. United Slates, 170 U. S. 606, 612. Second,
it does not exclude the possibility that the conspiracy may
have been formed in the District of Columbia without appellant being physically present when the conspiracy was formed.
in re J'attiser, 136 U. S.257, 265; Burton v. United States, 202
U: S. 344, 387; United States v. Thayer, 209 U.-S.39, 43. In
Burton v. United States, cited above, it was said by this court
that "the constitutional requirement isthat the crime shall'
be tried in the State and district where committed, not necessarily in the State or district where the party happened to be
at the time."
Upon the whole case, xie are.satisfied that there is not
shown that entire absence of evideqc,, which, upon adi appeal

OCTOBER TEIAM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

like this, would require us to hold that the decision that there
was probable cause was void as not based upon any evidence.
Final order affirmed.
BREWER, J.,

concurring.

I concur in affirming the orders of removal in these cases,
but my concurrence must not be taken as holding that the indictments will stand the final test of validity or sufficiency.
Assuming that there is a doubt in respect to these matters, as
I think there is and as seems to be suggested by the opinion in
No. 367, I am of the opinion that such doubt should be settled
by direct action in the court in which the indictments were returned, and not in removal proceedings.
MR. JUSTICE, MCKENNA concurs in the result, but reserves
opinion whether the facts alleged in the indictment constitute
a conspiracy to defraud the United States.

WILLIAM CRAMP AND SONS SHIP AND ENG1NE
BUILDING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 92.

Argued January 19, 20, 1910.-Decided February 28, 1910.

Executive officers are not authorized to entertain and settle claims
for unliquidated damages.
The Secretary of the Navy had power under the acts of June 10, 1896,

c. 361, 29 Stat. 378, authorizing the building of the "Alabama,".and
of August 3, 1886, c. 849, 24 Stat. 215, to make a change in the
terms of the contract requiring a final release to be given so that

such release should not include claims arising under the contract
which he did not have jurisdiction to entertain, and under a proviso
in the release to that effect the contractors are not barred from

