O(. OB1'(.
,R{. .
Opinion of the (Court.

AILB3 GIHT

216 U. S.

. SAN)OVAL (N). 2),

APP'EAl I1,I10M 1il,;, ,JI)TRIME

(Oult'

( 1' TilK TEIRRITORY OF

NEV MEXICO.
No. I 18.

.rgued January 2S, 1910-Decided February 21,. 1910.

Where the decision of the Supreme' Court of a Territory is based upon
the construction of the territorial statute involved, and not upoln
the power of the legislature to pass it, an appeal does not lie to this
court, if the amount in controversy is less than $5,000.
A decision (i the territorial court as to who had the right to an office
which depends on whether the office was or was not. vacanlt, and
whether or not an appointment was made before, the statute in\,olved took eff6et, depends upon the construction of, and not the
)ower of the legislaoz1rec to pass, suh statute; such a case does not,
involv6 the validity of an authority exercised under tle United
States and an appeal does not lie to'this court if the amount in
controversy is less than $5,000.
Appeal from 94 Pa,. Rep. 947, dismissed.

TiE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. L. Medler for appellant.

Mr. Neil B. Field for appellee, submitted.
MR. JUsTJc

M(!KENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

The al)peal involves the same questions as those that have
just been decided in No. 116, Albrighl v. am:doval, ante, 1). 331.
In the latter ease theright of Sanidoval to '(cover the fees aind
emlumelits of the office of assessLoi of Birnalillo County fr(mli
Albriglit is decided.
The case at 1bar is another act ion for additional fees received
1y Al brigh.it The .judigent r(ndered was f'r tile still of
$1,688.84, which, with interest, amounted to the. suni of

ALBIH(l-T v. SANDOVAL (NO. 2).
216 U. S.

Opinion of the (ourt.

$1,813.25. The jndgmeniit as aflirmed by tie Sul)lene Court.
94 Pac. Rep. 947. TIs al)eal was tlen taken. A motion is

made. to dismiss it on the ground that the amount in dispute does not (,ceed $5,000. To this it is replied that the
case involves the validity of an authority exercised under the
United States in thepassage of the laws by which, it is Conitended, Albright derived a right to the office.
The appellant supports thi"s contention by. saying that his
answer in the trial court raised the "legal propositions of the
power and authority of the Territorial legislature to pass the
acts creating Sandoval County and to vest the power of appointment in the county cornmissionersof Bcrnialillo County,"
and also contained a full recor(l of. the quo warranto proceedings in which the same questioi.s were raised. But by reference to the opinion in No. 116 it will be seen that the Sul)reme Court re.tcd its decision upon the construction of tlhe
statutes, not upon the want of power in the legislature to
pass them. As to the acts themselves, the Supreme Court
said: "It does not seem necessary or profitable in this case to
consider the question of the power of the legislature, for, the
reason that however adequate the power of the legislature
might be, if the legislature* did not see fit and had not intended to exercise the power to declare.the office of assessor
of Bernalillo County. vacant by the legislation enacted, the
legal right of the incumbent elected by the people of the county
is not affected by the legislation, afid no vacancy existed, to
be filled either by election or by apl)ointment."
As to the vacancy alleged to have occurred by the nonresidence of Sandoval in Bernalillo County, the court said that
it was unable to find any provision of the statutes "requiring
residence in the county as a qualification to hold the office
of assessor." And further said that it was hence "led to the
logical conclusion that even if it were admitted that Sandoval
had been for years and was still residing in what would become Sandoval County when the act took effect, that fact
would neither disqualify Sandoval from holding his office nor
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

have the effect of rendering the office vacant." And again:
"The legislature acted uL)on a mistaken view of the law and
the result of which was to provide for the election of an officer
to an office not vacant, but which, on the contrary, was in
the possession of a legally elected and qualified incumbent."
It was also decided that Albright's appointment was made
before the'law took effect and necessarily was illegal.
Upon the second appeal of the case the court did not eilarge on the ground of its decision. 79 Pac. Rep. 719. it follows that as Sandoval's right to the office and Albright's want
of right were based upon the construction of the statutes of
the Territory, not upon )ower .of the legislature to pass them,
the motion to dismiss must be granted, and'it is
So ordered.

WM. J. MOXLEY, A CORPORATION, v. HERTZ, UNITED
STATES COLLECTOR.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 398.

Argued December 13,14, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Where the function of a natural ingredient, such as palm oil, used-in
manufacturing oleomargarine is so slight that it probably would
not be used except for its effect in coloring the product so as to look
like butter, the product is artificially colored and subject to the tax
of ten centsa pound under par. 8 of the act of May 9, 1902, Chap. 784,
32 Stat. 193.

As the record in this case shows that the use of palm oil produced only
a slight effect other than coloration on the product, it falls under
the rule adopted in Cliff v. ,United States, 195 U. S. 159, that the
use of a natural ingredient must be for something more substantial
than coloration in order to relieve the oleomargarine of the tax of
ten cents a pound.

