OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Counsel for Parties.

216 U. S.

KING v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA AND SPRUCE
COAL AND LUMBER COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME AND MILLS.
SAME v. SAME AND BUSKIRK.
ERROR. TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
WEST VIRGINIA.
Nos. 445, 446, 447.

Argued December 14, 15, 16, 1909.-Decided January 31, 1910.

When this court has determined the constitutionality of a state statute
that question is not open, and cannot be made the basis of jurisdiction for a writ of error; and so held as to the statute of WestVirginia involved in this case and sustained as constitutional in
King v. Mullins, 171 U. S. 404.
On writ of error this court cannot deal with facts, and whether the
land involved is within or without certain boundaries is for the
,state court to determine.

The construction and effect of, and rights acquired by, a decree of the
state court are matters of state procedure. Nothing in the Federal
Constitution prevents a state court from modifying a decree while
the case remains in the court; nor is a beneficiary of a decree deprivcd of his property without due process of law, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, by the subsequent action of the
court modifying or reversing the decree while the case is still pending therein.
The decision of the state court that the only portion of a statute which
is unconstitutional is separable aild inapplicable to the case is final.
Writs of error to review 64 W. Va. 545, 546, 584,-610, dismissed.
THE facts are stated. in the opinion.

Mr. Hannis Taylor and Mr. Maynard F. Stiles, with whom
Mr. John G. Carlisle w' s on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. William (. Conley, Attorney General of the State of

KING v. WEST VIRGINIA.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

West Virginia, for defendant in error, State of West Virginia,
submitted.
Mr. John F. Dillon and Mr. C. W. Campbell, with whom
Mr. Harry Hubbard, Mr. Edward C. Lyon, Mr. Malcolm Jackson and Mr. John A. Sheppard were on the brief, for defendants in error, Mills and others.
Mr. Frank Cox, with whom Mr. James F. Brown and Mr.
William R. Lilly were on the brief for defendants in error,
Buskirk and others.
MR.JUSTICE

HOLMiES delivere(d the opinion of the court.

These writs of error are taken ina suit by the State of West
Virginia brought in May, 1894, for the sale of so much of a
tract of 500,000 acres of land granted to Robert Morris in 1795
as is within the State and liable to be sold for the benefit of the
school fund. Sec State v. King, 64 W. Va. 545; lb. 546, 584;
lb. 610. The constitution of the State provides as follows:
"It shall be the duty of every owner. of land to have it entered
on the land books of the county in which it, or a part of it,
is situated, and to cause himself to be charged with the taxes
thereon, and pay the same. When for any five successive
years after the year 1869, the owner of any tract of land containing one thousand acres or more, shall not have been
charged on such books with State tax on said land, then by
operation hereof, the land shall be forfeited and the title
thereto vest in the State." Art. XIII, § 6 (W. Va. Code, 1906,
p. lxxxv). By chap. 105 of the Code of the State, as amended
by the act of February .23, 1893, c. 24 (W. Va. Acts, 1893,
p. 57), a suit like the present is to be brought by the State for
the sale of land so forfeited, and the former owner is to receive
the surplus proceeds if he files a petition and proves title, or, if
he prefers, may redeem. Further details are stated in King v.
Mullins, 171 U. S. 404, where the validity of the system

OCTOBERt TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

created by the constitution and statute referred to was considered and maintained in a suit concerning this same tract.
See also King v. PantherLumber Co., 171 U. S. 437. Swann v.
West Virginia, 188 U. S.739.
These provisions being in the interest of actual. settlement
in the country, the Constitution also provides that all titles of
the State to forfeited lands, &c., not redeemed or redeemable,
shall be vested in any person, other than the one in default, his
heirs or devisees, for so nmuch thereof as he shall have held for
ten years under color of title, having paid taxes on the same
for any five of the ten years, with ulterior provisions if there be
no such person. The statute further provides for bringing in
parties interested and enacts that land already sold under the
statute, on which taxes since have been regularly paid, or land
transferred by the Constitution, shall be dismissed from the
suit, and thus exempts it both from sale in that suit and from
the redemption incident to the proceedings for a sale. Seetion 6. The redemption allowed is only from the title still remaining in the State and does not affect titles under previous
sales or the Constitution; the petitioner acquires no other title
than that which was itested' in him immediately before forfeiture. Section 17.- By § 20 the bar of the final decree is
limited in accord with these provisions of § 17.
After the bill inthis ease had been filed and several times
amended, the plaintiff in error, King, answered, in June, 1896,
setting tip title to the 500,000 acres, charging that the statute
which attempts to w'ork out a forfeiture of land, &c., is contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, but
asking, "if it would be adjudged that said tract of land is
forfeited to the State of West Virginia by reason of the nonassessment thereof," &c., that a decree be made allowing him
to redeem.. The answer also set out a very long list of claims
to-parcels of the tract, and charged that the persons making
them should he made parties defendant to the bill. There were
parties intervening at, this stage, but they do not seem to need

notice. The case was sent to a commissioner, who found,

KING v. WEST VIRGINIA.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

among other things, that about 10,000 acres of the land was
not subject to junior claims, and -that the taxes and interest
were $2,195.65. On this report coming in King paid $3,090.08
for taxes and costs, and thereupon, on September 30, 1897, a
decree was entered declaring that King "has the right superior
to all others to redeem said land so far as the record in this case
shows," and that the portion of the land lying in West Virginia, "so far as the title thereto is in said State," which portion is adjudged to be bounded as set forth in the decree, "is
hereby, by the said Henry C. King, fully redeemed; and all
forfeitures of said land and taxes and interest heretofore
charged or chargeable thereon are hereby released and discharged." "But it is provided that this redemption shall not
affect the rights of any person not party to this suit may have,
if any, under the provisions of section 3, Article 13, of the
constitution of the State of West Virginia, such rights and
claims not -being in any manner adjudged or determined
hereby." In fact, whatever it said, the decree could not grant
a redemption affecting anybody's right but that of the State.
The right of purchasers at court sales and transferees under
the Constitution are protected by § 17 of the act of 1893, as
pointed out by the Supreme Court of Appeals. 64 W. Va. 590,
599.

The State appealed in October, 1898, to the Supreme Court
of Appeals, and on February 7, 1900, the decree "in so far as it
allows the appellee, Henry C. King, to redeem the land described in this decree by reason of the payment of the sum of
$3,090.08, costs, taxes and interest as fixed by the Circuit
Court, and in so far as it ascertains such costs, taxes and interest," was reversed and in all other respects affirmed. The
cause was ordered to be remanded with directions to permit
King to amend his petition so as to carefully describe and
accurately locate the portion of said land he desired to redeem.
State v. King, 47 W. Va. 437. A little later in the same year
(1900); the State submitted a fifth amended bill, making the
persons mentioned in King's answer as having interest in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 V. S.

tractparties, and asked the directions of the court, King now,
contrary to his answer above stated, protesting, on the ground
of the above-mentioned decree. The bill was ordered to be
filed and in March, 1901, King filed an amended answer and
petition, stating that he had. not been able in the time allowed
to define all the land, but that he did there give a carefui description of certain portions upon which he desired to pay such
future sum as was properly chargeable thereon. Schedules
were set forth and the prayer was to be permitted to pay the
sum properly chargeable upon the land above described and
to be described in a supplemental petition.
In many instances the land claimed by the newly joined
parties Was dismissed without controversy from the suit as
subject neither to sale nor to redem'ption under the Constitution and laws. In others the land claimed was within the
boundaries established by the above-mentioned decree of
September 30, 1897, but wag alleged to be outside the true
lines of the Morris grant, the correctness of the decree being
denied: And again, claims inconsistent with King's right to
redeem, that were not admitted by him, were set up on the
footing of purchases from the State. On July 5, 1901, the case
was referred to a commissioner to report, among other things,
the quantity, description and location of the portions of the
Morris grant and other land concerned, to which the title then
remained in the State and which was subject to sale. On
July 14 King answered the answers of some of the new parties
claiming portions of the land. In September he applied for a
prohibition against the proceeding in the county court, which
was denied on the ground that the court had jurisdiction, and
that if it made a mistake it would be only error to be corrected
in the usual way. King v. Doolittle, 51 W. Va. 91. The commissioner proceeded to take evidence, King being represented
at the hearing, and this lasted until April 6, 1903, when the
report was filed. On December 6, 1905, the court made a der
cree establishing very different boundaries from those fixed by
the decree of September 30, 1897, and cutting down the Morris

KING v. WEST VIRGINIA.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

grant to about 97,000, or, as the plaintiff in error says 90,000,
acres. Meantime the State made a sixth, seventh and eighth
amendment to its bill, bringing in new defendants, but these
seem to need no further mention.
Motions had been made by Egbert Mills to dismiss a tract of
112 acres from the suit, and by the Spruce Coal and Lumber
Company to dismiss a tract of 7,000 acres, and by others, on
the ground that, as has been stated, by the statute under
which the suit was instituted, whenever it should appear to the
court that any part of the land in question had been sold by the
State in former similar proceedings, &c., or was held under
§ 3 of Art. 13 of the state constitution, the bill should be dismissed as to such part.
On February 23, 1905, the act of 1893 was amended so as to
allow defendant claimants to file deeds or certified copies of
deeds made under an order of court in previous proceedings
for the sale of school land, or patents from Virginia or West
Virginia, purporting to convey any part of the land in suit; and
it was enacted that if the State or some other claimant did not,
within thirty days, allege and prove by a proper certificate
that such part again had become forfeited since the date of the
conveyance, the court should have no jurisdiction to sell such
part or to permit redemption of it, but should enter an order
dismissing the suit as to such part. (It was left an open question in State v. King, 64 W. Va. 594, whether this did not enlarge King's rights, in case of a second forfeiture.) It was enacted also that if it should appear that any part of the land had
been held for ten years under color or claim of title and thfit
taxes had been paid for five of the ten years, .omif it should appear that the land had been held under color of title and taxes
paid for five years since 1865, the suit should be dismissed as
to such part. The court further was authorized to dismiss the
suit in whole or in part if satisfied by report of the commissioner of school lands and inquiry that the whole or part of the
lands was not liable to sale. Previous sales of school lands
were validated so far as to pass the title of the State. After
VOL. ccxvl-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

this amendment new motions were filed on June 1, 1905, and
subsequently, with copies of patents and deeds, if not previously filed. King objected on the ground that if § 3 of
Art. 13 of the constitution was construed to apply to land

forfeited after the constitution was adopted it was contrary
to the Constitution of the United States, and that §6 of
chap. 105 was also, if construed not to, permit King to redeem
all the land described in his petition. Time was allowed until
the first day of the next October term for the State or any
other claimant to show any defences to these motions, and no
defence appearing, on December 7, 1905, the day after the new
boundary decree, and on later days, the motions were granted
and the suit dismissed as to the tracts of land concerned.
The dismissals were on two grounds; that the tracts concerned were outside the Morris grant as bounded by the new
decree; and that they were held under grants from the State,
&c., and therefore were within c. 105, § 6, of-the Code as
amended and Art. 13, § 3, of the constitution. On December 3,1907, King appealed to the Supreme Court of Appeals,
but on December 22, 1908, the decrees were affirmed. It was
held that the above-mentioned tracts claimed by Egbert Mills
(No. 446 in this court) and the Spruce Coal and Lumber Company (No. 445 in this court), were outside the Morris grant.
State v. King, 64 W. Va. 545. The new boundary was upheld
in State v. King, 64.W. Va. 546. In that case it was decided
that the defendants made parties after the first boundary decree of September 30, 1897, were not bound by it as partially
affirmed, even if they had instigated and contributed to the
appeal. Pages 559 et seq. See Rumford Chemical Works v.
Hygienic Chemical Company, 215 U. S.156. Finally in State
v. King, 64 W. Va. 610, the court sustained a dismissal of land
claimed by Buskirk (No. 447 in this court) on the ground that
it had been sold as school land pending the present proceedings
and so the right to rdeem was gone, and moreover the sale
was validated by the amendment of 1905 to the act of 1893, as
above set forth.. In 64 W. Va. at 584 is a separate opinion

KING v. WEST VIRGINIA.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

discussing the amendment of 1905, and deciding that it merely
made legitimate rules of evidence and changed no rights.
To complete the history of the .case, even if not material, it
may be added that petitions for rehearing were presented and
disallowed, but that on January 21, 1909, it was decreed that
the boundary decree of December 6, 1905,. should be "so modified and limited in effect as not to affect or impair any right
vested in any person by the decree entered herein by the Circuit Court of Wyoming County on the 30th day of September, 1897, as modified and partially affirmed by a decree entered by this court on the 7th day of February, 1900, and
to the like extent the decree made and entered herein on the
22nd 'day of December, 1908, by this court, in so far as
the same affirms said decree of December 6th, 1905, is hereby
so modified and limited." The decrees as to the defendants in error were not modified, but still stand. Perhaps
the meaning- of this last decree is 'as contended for by some
of the defendants in error, that as between the State and King
on one side and the defendants brought in after September 30,
1897, on the other, the new boundaries shall prevail, but that
as between those who were parties before September 30, 1897,
the old boundaries still are to be taken as correct, so that if
within the latter bounds there is land to which the State alone
has title, King still may redeem., The court has indicated a
tendency to believe that the old decree still bound the State,
King v. Mason, 60 W. Va. 607, while it clearly holds that it
does not bind parties afterwards introduced. State v. King,
64 W. Va. 546, 561. At all events, we are of opinion that this
modification does not affect the cases before this court.
The present writs of error are for the purpose of reversing
the decrees as to boundary and dismissal that have been mentioned. The defendants in error move to dismiss, and we are
of opinion that the motion should be granted. The only
serious question in the case, if we assume that King saved it, is
whether the West Virginia constitution and statute are consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment. But that question

OQTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

was answered in King v. Mullins, 171 U. S. 404. The construction of the state constitution by the state court as not
confined in its operation to title vested and remaining in the
State when the constitution went into effect (which of course
is final), is the only natural construction and was to be expected; then, as now, it was obvious that the right to redeem
under the statute would not exist in case part of the land had
been sold to a junior purchaser, so that in that case there
would not be a 'revestiture commensurate with the divestiture,' as it is argued that there should be; and to say the least,
it is not surprising that it is held that the right may be lost by
transfer pending the proceedings. The whole discussion upon
this point is little more than an attempt in respectful form to
reargue by unreal distinctions what was decided in the former
case. The question is not open and we shall discuss it no more.
It hardly is necessary to add that on a writ of error we do not
deal with the facts, Behn v. Campbell, 205 U. S. 403, 407, and
therefore the decision that most of the tracts in question are
not within the boundaries of the Morris grant disposes of
King's rights here.
But an attempt is made to maintain that King got vested
*rights under the first boundary decree, September 30, 1897,
and his payment of the sum fixed in that decree, coupled with
the partial affirmance of the same. But the construction and
effect of that decree, how far it bound the State and whether
or not it bound parties subsequently coming in, were matters
of state procedure alone. The cases remained within the jurisdiction of the state court, and if, by local practice, the lower
or higher court had power to change an earlier decree in the
*cause by direct order or indirectly by construction, which
latter we by no means intimate was done, it is a matter that
cannot be complained of here. See Patterson v. Colorado, 205
U. S. 454, 460. It is said that the decree established the law of
the case, but that phrase expresses only the practice of courts
generally to refuse to reopen what has been decided, not a
linit to their power. Remington v. Central Pacific R. R. Co.,

KING v. WEST VIRGINIA.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

198 U. S. 95, 99, 100. See Great Western Telegraph Co. v.
Burnham, 162 U. S. 339, 343. In some State$ it is true that a
stricter rule is applied, Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Ellis, 144
U. S. 458, but there is nothing in the Constitution of the United
States to require it, or to prevent a State from allowing past
action to be modified while a case remains in court. See San
Franciscov. Itsell, 133 U. S. 65. The highest court of the State
is the final judge of the powers conferred by the state laws in
that regard. It was said by the Supreme Court of Appeals in
this case that "the decree adds nothing to King's right." 64
W. Va. 599.
In view of what we have said, it hardly is necessary to consider the amendment of the Code, c. 105 and the act of 1893
by the act of 1905. It is argued that the state court misconstrued the statute, but we have nothing to do with that.
Judge Brannon clearly shows, 64 W. Va. 584, 591 et seq., that
the amendment does not even change the burden of proof as to
the validity or invalidity of other sales or conveyances set up.
lb. 594. The limitation, of thirty days to overcome the effect
of filing a deed or patent from the State is thought to be merely
directory, and it is pointed out that in fact King was allowed
five months, and that'he did nothing. The limitation is held
to be reasonable, and even if void to be separable from the rest
of the act, another point on which the State's decision is final.
Giving primafacie effect to the document cannot be questioned
seriously. Marx V. Hanthorn, 148 U. S. 172. The other provisions of the act are shown to take no right from King that he
had under the previous law, and are held to be consistent with
the state constitution. In our opinion there was no question
raised in these cases that properly could be brought before this
court for review.
Writs of error dismissed.

