OCTIOB:EIR 'FIAN,

1909.

Syllabus.

216 U. S.

The third and fourth errors assigned are for overruling an
objectioni miade to the sufliciency of the iIictinient and to the
admission of any evidence because the indictinent was bad.
No such ohjection is shown by the. record. The indictment is
not in form bad, nor vague, but charges the crime of murder
withIi great particularity. [here seems to have been no reason
for dou,)as to the crime charged. Besides, objections of
this character cannot be made l)Onl Writ of (errorfor the first
tin ic.
Aside front the (iuestiol of jurisdiction, v(l)Isi(hered herelofore, Ihe relililing iassignlilents 'are
for 1hI('d (,rors in adlnIittil" )rrlejcting evideilce. Bti. as It() hill (t except ions was
taken, iteste assignmn't.s caulot be considered. 8/mrmn v.
Unicd kslac8, 9-1 U. S.76.

HAAS v. lIIN KEIL, UNITE')
APPEAL FROM TH1E (i IOU[T ((IURT (,'

S'Il'AHS MAI{S1iAL.
TIHE UNITED'STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN 1)ISTRI(T OF

NE\W 1:ORK.

No. 367. Argued January 6, 7, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Notwithstanding the hardship necessarily entailed upon the accused
inbeing tried ina district other than that inwhich he resides, there
isno l)rinciple of constitutional law that entitles him to be tried
in the place of his residence.
Art. III, § 2 of, and the Sixth Amendment to, the Constitution secure
to the accused the right to a trial inthe district where the crime
iscommitted, and one committing a crime ina district where he

does not reside cannot object to his removal thereto for trial.
Where one has been indicted for the same offense in two or more

districts, in one of which he resides, it is the duty of the prosecuting
officer to bring the case to trial in the district to which the facts
most strongly point; and if the court first obtaining jurisdiction'of
the person of the accused does not object, the accused cannot object

IAAS v. HEN KEL.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

to his being removed under§ 1014, Rev. Stat., from tlic district
of his residence to the district in which the government elects to
first bring the case to trial.
Where tie statute is plain, and Congress has made no exception in its
application, the court cannot mnake one.
Under § 1014, Rev. Stat., the duty of the commissioner is to determine
whether a primafacie case is nmade out that a crime has been conlmnitted, indictable and triable in the dlistrict to which removal is
sought, and if so determined there is no discretion; nor is the fact
that the accused is under bail in the district where lie resi(cs a I)ar
to tile removal.
A consl)iracy thodefraud the I it ied Statcs under § 5-140, Nev. Stlat.,
does not en'vessaril* involvc a direct pec'uniary loss to the United
States.
Ili stiat'llt includes any conspiracy hojilipair, obstruct
or lefeat the lawful fullotioi of '11Y (hleartnicnt of the ('overniient, e. g., t11e promulgation of officially ac(quired information in rcgard to the (otton crop.
Ilegulations of a del artnient. of the (Chverment iromulgated umer

§ 16l,

I ev. Stat., have the fo rce of law and Ibribery of an officer of

the United States to violate such regulations is inch nlcd under
§ 5451, Rev. Stat., making it a crime to Iribe such officer to violate

,his lawful duty.
Matters exclusively relating to lefense either sulbstantive or ill abateInent are proplerly deterliniative by the court into whihll tile. inare returned, and where the case will be tried; they caI(iictleits
not be considered on aln aplpeal from tile order of removal ilade

under § 1014, Rev. Stat.
Introduction before
district to which
removal which is
district, although

the conlinissioner of aIn inlictInt found in tile

removal is sought uakes a prima fic'ic case fotr
(!c i by an indictment found ill an)ther
not overc,,
the locis is differently stated in each indict meit.

167 Fed. Rep. 211, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Nash Rockwood, with whom Mr. Max Steuler was )n
the brief, for appellant:
The New York indictments are still pending; they have not
been nolle prossed or quashed; they do not charge lhat the
crime was committed in one district and completed in another;
or, in the District of Columbia and completed in New York;

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

but each alleges that the completed acts of conspiracy took
place within their reslective jurisdictions.
The conspiracy itself is the gist of the offense, and when the
Government charged the commission of the offense in New
York it elected its fortim and the defendant is, constitutionally, entitled to be there tried.
It has become (uite the habit of late in criminal iprosecutions
for the Government to seek the trial in the District of Columbia, presumably because the defendants are taken to a foreign
jurisdictioln where they are unknown and subjected to enormous expense. This oppressive use of the criminal statutes
invades the constitutional right of a citizen to a speedy trial
in the district of his residence, provided, as in this case, the
crime of which he stands accused was there committed.
There is no reason why lie should1 not, and every reasonboth constitutional and statutory-why he should be tried in
New York. See Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20; United Slacs
v. Marx, 122 Fed. Rep. 964; United States v. Sauer, 88 Fed.
Rep. 249.
The accused should not be removed if the court to which he:
is to be removed has no jurisdiction, and in this case the courts
of the District of Columbia have no jurisdiction as the Government alleges and has charged the same offense to have been
committed and completed in New York. Nashville &c. v.
Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; In re Palliser, 136 U. S. 257; Homer v.
United States, 143 U. S. 207; Hyde v. Shine, 199 iT. S. 62;
Georgia v. H~olton, 11 Fed. Rep. 217; United States v. Hackett,
29' Fed. Rep. 848; In re Rosdeitscher, 33 Fed. Rep. 657; Ex
par/e Pritchard,43 Fed. Rep. 915; In re Kelley, 46 Fed. Rep.
654; In re King, 51 Fed Rep. 434; United States v. Fowkes,
53 Fed. Rep. 13; United States v. Howell, 56 Fed. Rep. 21;
'United States v. Peterson, 64 Fed. Rep. 145; In re Huntington,
68 Fed. Rep. 881.; Ex parte Balliinger, 88 Fed. Rep. 781; United
States v. Murphy, 91. Fed. Rep. 120; In re Belknap, 96 Fed.
Rep. 614; United States v. Alberty, 24 Fed. Cas. 765; United
States v. Bickford, 24 Fed. Cas. 1144; United States v. Bird, 24

HAAS v. HENKEL.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Fed. Cas. 1148; United States v. Britton, 24 Fed. Cas. 1239;
United States v. Jackalow, 1 Black, 484.
The indictments did not confer jurisdiction upon the commissioner to commit the defendant for removal, and there was
an entire absence of probable cause as the indictments do not
allege an illegal conspiracy to commit any offense against the
United States.
Only crimes and offenses specifically enumerated by statute
are indictable. United States v. Cook, 17 Wall. 168-174.
When the crime charged is conspiracy to do a criminal act, it
must be shown that the act which is the purpose and object of
the conspiracy is itself a violation of law. Conrad v. United
States, 127 Fed. Rep. 798; United States v. Boyer, 85 Fed. Rep.
425; Rev. Stat., § 5440. Charging conspiracy to violate
§ 5451 must charge an intent to accomplish certain acts
which when performed would violate § 5451.
Thkre was .no bribery as defined in § 5451 in this case. A
conditional offer and promise based upon the success of a future event, where speculation was not successful and the promisee receives nothing is not a violation of § 5451. United States
v. Greene, 136 Fed. Rep. 651; United States v. Crafton, 25 Fed.
Cas. 681; United States v..Kessell, 62 Fed. Rep. 57.
A conspiracy to do a lawful act is not an illegal conspiracy
under § 5440. The conspiracy must be to commit an offense,
punishable by statute. Goldfield Mines Company v. Miners'
Union, 159 Fed. Rep. 500; United States v. Johnson, 26 Fed.
'Rep. 682; United States v. Lancaster, 44 Fed. Rep. 896; United
States v. Benson, 70 Fed. Rep. 594; Drake v. Stewart, 76 Fed.
Rep. 142. The intent to violate the law is the gravamen of
the offense, and must be distinctly averred. United States v.
Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 558; United States v. Carll, 105 U. S.
612; Bannon & Mulkey v. United States, 156 U. S. 466; United
States V. Jackson, 25 Fed. Rep. -548; United States v. Van
Lueven, 62 Fed. Rep. 69; McCarty v. United States, 101 Fed.
Rep. 113; United States v. Post, 113 Fed. Rep. 854; United
States v. Greene, 136 Fed.:Rep. 658; United States v. Hess, 124
VOL. CCXVI-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant..

216 U. S.

U. S. 483, 486; Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S. 202; United
States v. Fox, 95 U. S. 670; People v. Lohman, 2 Barb. (N. Y.)
218.
The indictments do not allege an illegal conspiracy "to defraud the United States. in any manner or for any purposc."
Curley v. United States, 130 Fed. Rep. 1; United States v.
Morse, .161 Fed. Rep. 429; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62; United

States v. Keitel, 211 U. S.370, can be distinguished, as there the
government policy was interfered with ahd acts were performed
directly con'travening the spirit and letter of the statutes. To
be a'crime to deprive the United States of a right or an official
function, the right'must be one defined by law and the official
function one imposed by law. See new Federal Penal Code,
§§ 123 and 124.
No case has yet applied the statute unless the5acts complained of constituted the deprivation of a right or duty imposed upon a department of the Government by statute, or
that the acts operated to deprive the Government of property
or the right of property. United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.
542; United States v. Simmons, 96 U. S. 360; United States v.
Hirsch, 100 U. S. 35; Dealy v. United States, 152 U. S. 539;
France v. United States, 164 U. S.676; Re Wolf, 26 Fed. Rep.
611; United States v. Reichert, 32 Fed. Rep. 142; United States
v. Millper, 36 Fed. Rep. 891; United States v. Purchel, 116
Fed. Rep.- 142; United States v. Thomas, 145 Fed. Rep. 79;
United States v. Taffe, 186 Fed. Rep. 113.
Penal laws must be strictly construed and if there is any
doubt concerning' the application of a criminal statute, it must
be resolved in favor of the defendant. Williamson v. United
States, 207 U. S.425; Hamilton v. United States, 26 App. D. C.
382.
The indictments do not aver an illegal conspiracy to defraud
the United States in the matter of making the reports untrue
and inaccurate.
It is not a crime or offense to violate a custom, practice or
regulation of, the head of a department of the Government

HAAS v. HENKEL.
216 U.S.

Argument for Appellant.
/

unless such custom, practice or regulation has been authorized
by statute and its violation made penal by some general or
special law. A charge of crime could not be predicated upon
the violation of a rule to keep information regarding the cotton
crop secret as there is no statute authorizing the Secretary to
make such a rule, nor any statute making its violation a
criminal offense. There are no common law offenses against
the United States. United States v. Eaton 144 U. S. 677.
While by Rev. Stat.,.,§ 161, the head of a department mnay
prescribe regulations not iriconsistent With law for the governnent of his department, it is likewise true that in order
to constitute any act or set of acts, an offense, the act must be
made criminal by statute: United States v. Sandefuhr, 145
Fed! Rep. 49; Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 466; United States
v. Boyjer, 85 Fed. Rep. 425; Wilkins v. United States, 96 Fed.
Rep. 837; United States v. Maid, 116 Fed. Rep. 650; United
States v. Blasingame, .116 Fed. Rep. 654; United States v.
Matthews, 146 Fed. Rep. 306. See also Caha v. United States,
152 U. S.211;: Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S.425.
The violation of 'a custom cannot be made the basis of a
criminal prosecution in the absence of any statute imposing
any duty.
None of the counts allege that the defendants knew, or had'
reason to know, of. any alleged custom, practice, regulation
or rule of secrecy in the department; and knowledge not being
alleged, and there being no presumption of knowledge, they
cannot be held liable for criminal wrong-doing. Ignorantia
facti excusat, ignorantia. juris non excusat.
Pettibone v.
United States, 148 U. S. 197; Wilkins v. United States, 96 Fed.
Rep. 837. 'Regulations to have the force of law must be made
by an executive department in pursuance of authority deic7
gated by Congress and only when so promulgated, will the
courts take judicial notice of their existence. -The existence
of such rule is a fact and must be pleaded and proven as any
other fact. United States v. Matthews. 146 Fed. Rep. 306.
Holmes was not an officer of the United States nor a person

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

acting for or on behalf of the United States in an official
function under or by virtue of any department or office of the
Government thereof. Nothing was pending in connection
with the cotton crop reports, which could by law be brought
before him in an official capacity, or upon which his decision
or action could be influenced. He was not charged with any
duty whatever in connection with reports upon the cotton
crop. As to who is an officer of the United States, see United
States v. Germaine, 99 U. S. 508; United States v. Smith, 124
U. S. 525; Au ffmordt v. Hedden, 137 U. S. 310; United States
v. McDonald, 72 Fed. Rep. 295; United States v. Cole, 130 Fed.
Rep. 614; United States v. McCrory, 91 Fed. Rep. 295; United
States v. Schlierholz, 137 Fed. Rep. 616; United States v. Gibson, 47 Fed. Rep. 833; United States v. Haas, 167 Fed. Rep.
211; United States v. Ingham, 97 Fed. Rep. 935.
The words "official function," as used in § 5451, mean a
duty imposed by law, and a charge of crime cannot be predicated upon an act not made an official function, obligation or
duty by express command of law. If Holmes was a public
officer, the indictments are defective, because he could not conspire with himself to bribe, influence, or induce himself to cornmit the alleged offense of misconduct. United States v. Dietrich,
126 Fed. Rep. 664. See also 2 McClain's Cr. L., § 959; Shannon
v. Commonwealth, 14 Pa. St. 226; Miles v. Butler, 8 Washington, 194; S. C., 35 Pac. Rep. 1093; S. C., 25 L. R. A. 434; S. C.,
40 Am. St. Rep. 900; 2 Wharton's Cr. Law, § 1339; Chadwick v.
United States, 141 Fed. Rep. 225; United States v. New York
Central CJladson River Railroad Company, 146 Fed. Rep. 298.
There was no )roof of the iss0ance of bench warrants or that
defendiats were wated within the District of Columbia.
Removal proceediings must be based U)On the fact that the
accused is wanted in the demanding jurisdiction and the
absence of such proof is a jurisdictional defect.
The history of the act and adjudicated cases show that
it was the intention of Congress in this provision to assimilate all the proceedings for holding accused peisons to

HAAS v. HENKEL.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

answer before a court of the United States to the proceedings provided for similar purposes by the laws of the State
where the proceedings should take place. United States v.
Martin, 17 Fed. Rep. 150; United States v. Tureaud, 20 Fed.
Rep. 621; Marvin v. United States, 44 Fed. Rep. 405; Re
Gourdin, 45 Fed. Rep. 842; United States v. Sauer, 73 Fed.
Rep. 671; United States v. Sapinkow, 90 Fed. Rep. 654; United
States v. Rundlett, 2 Curtis (U. S.), 41; United States v. Horton,
2 Dill. (U. S.) 94; Ex parteBurford, 3 Cranch, 448; United States
v. Burr, 2 Whel. Crim. (N. Y.) 573; United States v. Insley, 54
Fed. Rep. 223; Re Dana, 68 Fed. Rep. 895; United States v.
Collins, 79 Fed. Rep. 65; Re Price, 83 Fed. Rep. 830; United
States v. Price, 84 Fed. Rep. 636; Johnson v. United States, 87
Fed. Rep. 187; People v. Cramer, 22 App. Div. 396; Comfort v.
Fulton, 13 Abb. Pr. 276; Blodgett v. Race, 18 Hun, 132; Tracy
v. Seamens, 7 N. Y. 146.
The law of New York requires the issuance of a bench warrant for the arrest of one indicted, and also for the arrest of one
sought to be extradited to another jurisdiction.
The crimes and offenses were all barred by the statute of
limitations. If any conspiracy existed at all with relation to
the report of June, 1905, it was entered into in 1904, so that
the acts of May 31, 1905, now alleged in the indictments as
separate conspiracies, were mere overt acts of the original
conspiracy, and the statute of limitations became a bar in
August, 1907. The indictments were found in May, 1908.
Re Snow, 120 U. S.282, and see United States v. Kessel and
American Sugar Refining Company (not yet reported).
A conspiracy formed under § 5440, Rev. Stat., is a completed crime when an overt act has been committed to effect
the object of the conspiracy. United States v. Irvine, 98 11. S.
450; Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S.97; Dealy v. United
States, .152 U. S. 539; United States v. Owen, 32 Fed. Rep. 534;
United States v. Lancaster, 44 Fed. Rep. 896; United States v.
McCord; 72 Fed. Rep. 159; Berkowitz v. United States, 93 Fed.
Rep. 452; United States v. Greene, 100 Fed. Rep. 941; United

OCTOI3EI

TERM, 1909.

Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

States v. Biggs, 157 FedL Rep. 264; United States v. Black, 160
Fed. Rep. 431.
If the conspiracy is the offense and it becomes complete
upon the performance of the first overt act and the defendants
'te then at that timen sudet to idictment, the bar of the
statute must apply after three years from the commission

of that overt act. To hold otherwise is to read into § 5440
elenits is to the ren;ewal or continuance of a conspiracy
which are not therein expressed. Ware v. United States, 154
Fed. Rep. 577; United States v. Lonabough, 158 Fed. Rep.
31-4; A rtnour 'acking Coimpany v. United States, 209 IT. S.
56. The general Statute of Limitations, Rev. Stat., § 1044, is
a))licablh to the D)istrict of (oluhmia.
United States v.
C('iahn, 197 IT.S. 477.
The alleged trime of eolispiracy to )ribe merged in tei comnIded o eiise.
The overt ac't is made applicable to both counts of lhe indit lelnt so thlnt. the collspiray to bribe merged in the specific
ofl' iie of )ril)(rVN .tli time the money w'as paid to Holmes.
1iiiied qlaNoes v. I1gyfjs, 157 Fed. Re). 264; United States v.
lllt,, 1 (1( Fed. liep. -1:31 : Berkowitz v. 1ni/ed States, 93 Fed.
Rep..152: 1'ni/ctd Sates v. Jones, 5 Utah., 552; 1. 3ishop's Crim.
L., N. (Cr. ILa, § 787: 1 Whart. Cr. L. 27a; Un ited States v.
Alelli, I IS 'ed. Rep. 900: 6 Am. & Eng Eney. of Law, 863.
SSedso 'ho,s v. U;nited States, 15( led. Rep. 902; 'Clunev.
I'n ilcd Ntaes, 159 1t. S. 590-595; /ni/ed ktates .v. Gardner, 42
Fed. IRep. 829: 'it('d( Niales v. AleDonald, :3 Dill. 545: lt(baed
Notde, v. Martii, 4 Cliff. (66; State v. M'urpy, 6 Alabama, 765:
Elsei v. State, 47 Arkansas, .572; WJ'right v. N/ate, 5 Idliaa,
528: N/ate v. Lewis, IS Iowa, 579; State v. Mayberry, 48 Mfaine,
28; ( 'Conotion
we1alth v. Kigsb0'ry, 5 Massah usetts, 106i: People
v. Riuhards, I Miehigaii, 222; People v. MeKane, 31 A)1. N. (.
176: 7 Misc. Rep. (N. Y.) 478; People v. Malher, 4 Wend.
(N. V.) 229; S. C., 21 Am. Dec. 122.
Mr. Jesse C. Adkins, Special Assistant to the Attorney Gen-

IIAAS i. IIENIEL.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

eral, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler was on
the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

On May 29, 1908, four indictments were found in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia against Moses
Haas, and certain others, charging them with having conspired in -the District of Columbia to defraud the United
States, and with having conspired to commit an offense
against the United States, under § 5440, Rev. Stat. Bench
warrants were issued and returned not found.
On the same day four other indictments were found in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York against the same Moses Haas and the others
named in the District of Columbia indictments, charging
them with having conspired in the Southern District of New
York to commit the same offenses covered by the four District of Columbia indictments. Haas appeared in the New
.York courts and gave bail. Later he was arraigned and
pleaded not guilty, then withdrew his plea and entered a
motion to quash, which was overruled.
On June 24, 1908, and while this motion to quash was sub
judice, proceedings were duly begun by the United States
district attorney for the Southern District of New York
before the United States commissioner for the arrest of Haas
and his removal to the District of Columbia for trial upon
the indictments there pending against him. Pen(ing these
removal proceedings, and before any hearing, the United
States district attorney moved the Circuit Court in which the
New York in(lictrneits were pending for consent to the prosecution of these removal proceedings, and consent was granted
over the objection of taas. This application was made by
direction of the then Attorney General of the United States,
who, in an official communication, said "that should the trial
here [Washington] result in acquittal or conviction,, the
indictments in New York will be dropped." Among other

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

reasons for desiring the trial in Washington, aside from mere
questions of convenience to Government officials and witnesses, the Attorney General said:
"1. The indictments charge a conspiracy on the part of
the several defendants to cause to be issued at Washington
by the Bureau of Statistics for the Department of Agriculture
.of false cotton crop reports, and that Holmes, who was then
Associate Statistician of the Bureau of Statistics, was to furnish to his, co-conspirators in advance of their official issue
the information to be contained in the reports. While, owing
to the commission in your district of acts in pursuance of the
conspiracy, the court in your district has jurisdiction of the
offense, yet the conspiracy was in all probability actually
formed in Washington. The false reports were prepared and
issued here and the advance information was given out here.
The real situs of the crime then is in the District of Columbia,
and the trials should therefore be had here.
"2. The defendant Holmes has been arrested and is now
awaiting trial on the indictments pending in the District of
Columbia. There are two series of these indictments, one
against Price, Haas and Holmes, and the other against Haas,
Peckham and Holmes. It would be a great convenience and
a vast saving to the Government to try the defendants
together. Even this would necessitate two trials,- one in
each series. If the non-resident defendants are not removed
to Washington, four trials would be needed, two in Washington and two in New York."
Upon the hearing before, the commissioner the Government
put in evidence certified copies of the four District of Columbia indictments, and proof that bench warrants had issued
in that district and been returned not found: The defendant
admitted his identity and put in evidence copies of the four
New York indictments and of the proceedings had thereunder. The commissioner found probable cause and directed
that Haas be held to await an order of removal by a district
judge. Thereupon a petition for writs of habeas corpus and

HAAS v. HENKEL.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

certiorari were filed in the Circuit Court, averring that his
arrest and detention was illegal and in violation of the Federal
Constitution. The Circuit Court upon a full hearing denied
the writs and remanded the petitioner. 166 Fed. Rep. 621.
This appeal was thereupon taken.
The facts stated present the question as to whether Haas
could be lawfully removed under § 1014, Rev. Stat., over his
objection, pending the proceedings against him in the Southern District of New York for similar offenses.
Section 1014 provides for the arrest and detention of. any
person, wherever found, "for trial" before such court of the
United States as by law has cognizance of the offense, and
that "where any offender or witness is committed in any
district other than that where the offense is to be tried, it
shall be the duty of the judge of the 'district where such
offender or witness is imprisoned seasonably to issue, and of
the marshal to execute; a warrant for his removal' to the
district where the trial is to be had."
Haas was arrested upon a warrant duly sworn out, charging
him with offenses against the United States, committed within
the District of Columbia. Copies of the indictments duly returned by a grand jury were put in evidence. That made a
primafacie case, requiring detention until an order of removal
could be applied for and issued. Haas insisted upon his right
to be tried in the district of his residence, and complained,
with more or less justice, of the expense and hardship incident
to a trial in the District of Columbia. But there is no principle of constitutional law which entitles one to be tried in
the place of his residence. The right secured by Art. III,
§2 of, and the Sixth Amendment to, the Constitution is the
right of trial in the district "where the crime shall have been
committed." If, therefore, Haas committed a crime against
the United States in the District of Cqlumbia he had neither
legal nor constitutional right to object to removal to the
district where the trial was to be had. In re Palliser, 136
U. S. 257, 265.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

If the only constitutional right secured is the right to a
trial by jury in the district where the crime was committed,
there is obviously no invasion of either right by the election
of the Government to prosecute the offense in any district
and "court of the United States as by law has cognizance of
the offense." If the same accusation has been made by grand
juries of different jurisdictions, it would be manifestly. the
duty of the prosecuting officer of the United States to determine in which the Offense was most probably committed and
bring the offender to trial there. Thus, if the place of the
formation of the conspiracy be doubtful, and there be some
facts pointing to one district and some to another, and
indictments have been returned in each, it would be the
plain duty of the prosecution to take steps to bring the case
to trial in that district to Which the facts most strongly
pointed. This seems to have been the very situation of this
case, and the principal motive moving the Attorney General
to give the instruction shown by his letter'to the district
attorney for the Southern District of New York. The removal
statute is plain and leaves no room for the court to make an
exception, when Congress has made none.
Has the United States court for the District of Columbia
jurisdiction over the accusation made in that District and is
the case triable there? If so, the duty of the commissioner,
assuming a showing of probable cause, was to detain and of
the judge of the distrkt to issue his warrant, for the removal
of the accused "to the district where the trial is to be had."
The case, on principle, must be the same if the offense be one
which was committed in more than ofie district. In such a
case § 731, Rev. Stat., makes it cognizable in either. But, if.
indicted in two or more districts, there must be an election

as to where the defendant shall be tried. Primarily, this is
the -right and duty ofithe Attorney General, or those acting
by his authority. If the election require the arrest of the
.accused in a district other than that in which the trial is to
be had, removal proceedings must, of course, be instituted.

HAAS v. IENKEL.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The duty of the commissioner is then limited to the determination of the single question of whether a prima facie case is
made that the accused has committed an offense against the
United States, indictable and triable in the district to which
a removal is sought. There is no discretion reposed when
such a case is made out. That bail had been given would not
prevent removal, for in such a situation the sureties would
be exonerated by act of the law. Beavers v. Haubert, 198
U. S.77:
But in the case before us the consent of the Circuit Court,
to which the New York in(lictments had been returned, was
granted. To say that the accused had a right to a speedy
trial of'the New'York cases may be conceded. If unreasonable delay should result from continuanc s (lue to an election
to try the same accusations in another district, a very different
question might arise, calling for relief through habeas corpus.
But such a possibility affords no legal reason for denying the
right of removal. The precise question has not been before
raised; but inprinciple the, case is within In re Palliser, 136
U. S.257, 267; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62, and Benson v.
Henkel, 198 U. S. 1, 15.
In the Palliser case, a removal from a New York district,
the residence of Pa~liser, to a Connecticut district, was objected to because the offense had been committed in New York
and not Connecticut. The court said:
"But there can be no doubt at all that, if any offense was
committed in New York, the offense continued to be committed when the letter reached the postmaster in Connecticut; and that, if no offense was committed in New York, an
offense was committed in Connecticut; and that, in either
.aspect, the District Court of the United States for the District
of Connecticut had jurisdiction of the charge against the
petitioner. Whether he might have been indicted in New
York is a question not presented by this appeal."
In Hyde v. Shine the fact that the conspiracy charged was
one triable inCalifornia, the residence of the appellant, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

not considered as an answer to the demand for removal from
California to the District of Columbia, the-question of distance
being the one pressed and decided as presenting no obstacle
to the legal right of removal.
In Beavers v. Haubert, 198 U. S. 77, the appellant objected
to removal from the district of his residence to another to be
there tried, because he was at the time under indictment in
the district of his residence, and under bail for his appearance
for a different offense against the United States. But it was
held that this fact afforded no reason for denying a removal
upon the election to try the one case before the trial of the
other.
In Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 115, objection was made to
a removal to the District of Columbia upon the ground that
the offense, if any, was committed in California, and that,
under the Constitution, the appellant was entitled to a trial
in that jurisdiction. In dealing with that question Mr. Justice
Brown said:
"The objection does not appear upon the face of the indictment, which charges the offense to have been committed
within this district, but from the testimony of one of those
clerks it seems that the money was received by him in certain
letters mailed to him from San Francisco and received in
Washington. Without intimating whether the question of
jurisdiction can be raised in this way, the case clearly falls
within that of In re Palliser, 136 U. S.257, in which it was
held that where an offense is begun by the mailing of a letter
in one district and completed by the receipt of a letter in
another district, the offender may be punished in the latter
district, although it may be that he could also be punished
in the former."
The next objection is that the District of Columbia indictments do not charge any offense against the United Stateg.
The four District' of Columbia indictments charge two
sets of conspiracies. One conspiracy charged in indictment
No. 26,088 is averred to have been formed between Haas, one

HAAS v. HENKEL.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Theodore Price and one Edwin S. Holmes, Jr., who was an
Associate Statistician in the Department of Agriculture. The
charge in certain of these accounts is that these three defendants conspired to defraud the United States by secretly
obtaining hiformation from Holmes which he should acquire
in his official character as Associate Statistician and should,
in violation of his official duty, give out secretly to his coconspirators, information as to the probable contents of certain
official cotton crop reports in advance of the time when these
reports were to be promulgated according to law. In oneof the
counts it is Oharged that Holmes was to falsify one of these
official cotton crop reports, of which fact his associates were
to be advised iii advace. All of which information in a(lvance
of the publication of the official cotton crop r'l)orts was to be
used for speculative purposes in the open market.
Indictment No. 2(i,098 charges that Haas and Price conspired to bribe Holmes to make this false report and to furnish
them in advance information as to its contents.
Indictment No. 2(i,086 charges that Haas and Ohic Frederick
A. Peckham conspired with one Van Riper to bribe Holmes

to give them advance information of the June report of 1905,
while No. 26,087 chariges Haas, Pcckham and Holmes with
conspiracy to defraud the United States by Holmes giving

his co-conspirators advance information as to that report.
The indictments are of such great length that it is not
feasible to set them out in full or to state the substance of
their several counts. It is for the l)urposes of this case enough
to say that it is averred that the Department of Agriculture

includes a Bureau of Statistics established by law. That one
of the govermental functions exercised by that department,
particularly through the Statistical Bureau, is the acquirement of detailed information from time to time in respect to

the condition of the cotton crop of the country. That this
information comes through thousands of correspondents,
some official and others not, through the reports of local
agents scattered through the cotton region and through travel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

ing representatives of the department. From these and other
sources a report is made estinmating acreage, condition and
the probable size of the crop. ('onparisons with former
reports are made, and every explanatio n furnished-. which
utay throw light upon.the present condition and prospect, of
the growing crop. That the purpose is to complete and proiulgate at, stated times fair, impartial and reliable reports,
and that said reports are issued about the third day of the
months of June, ,July, August, September, October and )eceml)er. That the inforniation thus officially acquired and
coi) led and thie estiniates thereon are ()fvalue and do
greilt ly affect the market price of ti crop. That such reports
are required to ?e sul)mitted t) and apl)lroved by the Secretary of Agriculturc )efore pul)lication, and that mider the
ctitoni, lpractices and regulations of the Secretary of Agricultuc all officers and e l loy6s are i'
required to kee) seeret the
inforniation so gathered, alldi from in aiy way divulginlg same
or giving out any information forecasting such report ill
advance of its official ap)roval and Iromulgation.
It is'averred that tile said HolneS was an enilpoyc or an
official in said Department, and in the Bure6au of Statistics.
That by virtue of his duty as such official and Assistant
Statistician he acluired inuch of the information upon which
such reports are based, and, as an official, came into knowledge of the probable contents of the regular reports. That
neither Haas nor- Price had any official connection and were
not authorized to obtain information about such reports in
advance of their promulgation. That the conspiracy was to
obtain such information from Holmes in advance of general
publicity and to use such information in speculating upon the
cotton market, and thereby defraud the United States by
defeating, obstructing and impairing it in the exercise of its
governmental function in the regular and official duty of
publicly promulgating fail, impartial. and accurate reports
concerning the cotton crop. One count charges, in addition,
that the conspiracy included the making of a false report, the

HAAS v. HENKEL:
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

facts to be given by Holmes to his co-conspirators in advance
of its publication.
The counts charging a conspiracy to commit an offense
against the United States in substance charge that this was
to be accomplished by bribing the said Holmes to inducehim
to do certain acts in violation of his lawful duty not to give
out advance information in respect to the condition of the
cotton crop, acquired in the performance of his official duty.
Do the counts which charge a conspiracy to defraud the
United States charge any offense?
The authority for the indictments charging a conspiracy to
defraud is § 5440, Rev. Stat. Its language is plain and broad:
"If two or more persons conspire . . . to defraud the
United States in any manner or for any purpose, and one or
more of such parties do any act to effect the object of the
conspiracy, all the parties to such conspiracy shall be liable,"
etc.
These counts do not expressly charge that the conspiracy
included any direct pecuniary loss to the United States, but
as it is averred that the acquiring of the information and its
intelligent computation, with deductions, comparisons and
,explanations involved great expense, it is clear that practices
of this kind would deprive these reports of most of their value
to the public and degrade the department in general estimation, and that there would be a real financial loss. But it is
not essential that such a conspiracy shall contemplate a financial loss or that one shall result. The statute is broad enough
in its terms to include any conspiracy for the purpose of
impairing, obstructing or defeating the lawful function of any
department of Government. Assuming, as we have, for it
has not been challenged, that this statistical side of the
Department of Agriculture is the exercise of a function within
the purview of the Constitution, it must follow that any
conspiracy which is calculated to obstruct or impair its efficiency and destroy the value of its operations and reports as
fair, impartial and reasonably accurate, would be to defraud

OCTOBtR TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

the'United States by depriving it of its lawful right and duty
of promulgating or 'diffusing the information so officially
acquired in the way and at the time required by law or
departmental regulation. That it is not essential to charge
or plrove an actual financial or property loss to make a case.
under the statute has been more than once ruled.- Hyde v.
Shine, 199 U. S. 62, 81; United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370,
394; Curley v. United States, 130 Fed. Rep. 1; McGregor v.
United States, 134 Fed.-Rep. 195.
The counts charging a conspiracy to commit an offense
against the United States, namely, the offense of bribing
Holmes to violate his duty as a public official by giving out
advance information about the monthly cotton reports, are
said not to charge an offense against the United States,
because there is no statute which prohibits the giving out of
such official secrets in advance of lawful promulgation.
Section 5451, Rev. Stat., makes it a crime to bribe or offer
to bribe "any officer of the United States," or "any person
acting for or on behalf of the United States, in any official
function, under or by authority of any department or office
of the Government;

.

.

.

to induce him to do or omit to

do any act in violation of his lawful duty." The head of each
Department is authorized by § 161, Rev. Stat., "to prescribe
regulations not inconsistent with law for the government of
his departmenit, the conduct of its officers and clerks, the
distribution and performance of its business, and the preservation of its records, papers and property appertaining to'
it." Such regulations need not be promulgated in any set
form, nor in writing.

In United States v. Macdaniel, 7 Pet. 1, 14, 15, it was said
of departmental regulations that, "of necessity usages have
been established in every department of the Government,
whit-h have become a kind of commonJaw, and regulate the
rights and-duties of those who act within their respective
lInits."
In Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1, 11, a similar question

HAAS v. HENKEL.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

arose in an appeal from an order denying a writ of habeas
corpus in a removal case. The appellant was charged with a
conspiracy to commit an offense by bribing certain clerks of
the land office to divulge the contents of certain reports. It
was said that these clerks had not been forbidden by any statute to give out such information. Mr. Justice Brown, for the
court, said:
"But it is clearly for the court to say whether every duty
to be performed by an official must be designated by statute,
or whether it may not be within the power of the head of a
department to prescribe regulations for the conduct of the
business of his office and-the custody of its papers, a,breach
of which may be treated as an act in violation of the lawful
duty of an official or clerk. United States v. Macdaniel, 7 Pet.
1, 14."
We have not dealt with certain-minor objections which go
to the form of the indictments rather than to the substance.
These are matters to be determined in the court where they
were found and are not proper for consideration upon a
habeas corpus proceeding.
The exclusion of the evidence taken in Price v. United
States, and offered in this case upon the petition for writ of
habeas corpus in the Circuit Court, touching the history of the
finding of indictment No. 26,088, is not a matter which is
proper for review on such aniappeal as this. So, also, the
defense of the statute of limitations. The one defense is matter in abatement and the other of substantive defense, and
both are properly matters for the determination of the court
into which the indictments were returned and where the case
will be tried.
It is enough to hold, as we do, that the indictments sufficiently charge an offense committed within the District of
Columbia to require that the appellant shall be removed- to
that District for trial. Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1.
The introduction of certified copies of the District of Columbia indictments made a prima ,Awie case for removal. That
VOL. ccxvi-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
BREWER, J., concurring.

216 U. S.

case was not overcome by the copies of the New York indictments. That they laid the locus of the conspiracy in a different place from that laid in the District of Columbia indictments is true. But if such indictments are evidence for the
purpose of showing that the place of the conspiracy was not
in the District of Columbia,.such evidence was not, as matter
of law; sufficient to overcome the probable cause shown by
the District of Columbia indictments. They certainly could
not be regarded as admissions by the Government. They
were at most evidence of .the opinion of the New York gi'and
jury as to the locus of the conspiracy. But if the fact be that
the offense charged in both sets of indictments is identical
and that the locus of the conspiracy ,is laid in one set as in one
district and in the other as in a different district, it is still for
the Government to determine-in whiclof the two districts it
will bring the accused to trial, .and of the commissioner to
determine whether a prima facie case has been shown that the
accused had probably committed an offense in the District
of Columbia which was indictable and triable there. This we
have dealt with already and ofily refer to it now in connection
with the use of the New York inde'cti'ients as evidence that
the offense was not committed in the District of Columbia.
Upon the whole case we conclude that the commissioner
had jurisdiction, and that no sufficient reason is shown for
discharging the appellant.
Final order denying writ
Affirmed.
BREWER,

J., concurring.

I concur in affirming the orders of removal in these cases,
but my concurrence must not be taken as holding that the indictments will stand the final test of validity or sufficiency.
Assuming that there is a doubt in respect to these matters, as
I think there is, and as seems to be suggested by the opinion
in No. 367, I am of the opinion that such doubt should be

PECKHAM v. HENKEL.
216 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

settled by direct action in the court in which the indictments
were returned and not in removal proceedings.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

concurs in the result, but reserves

opinion whether the facts alleged in the indictment constitute
a conspiracy to defraud the United States.

PECKHAM v. HENKEL, UNITED STATES MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 366.

Argued January 6, 7, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Haas v. Henkel, ante, p. 462, followed as to jurisdiction of commissioner under § 1014, Rev. Stat., in removal proceedings to remove
accused who has been indicted in more than one district.
The fact that the person whose removal is sought, is under bond to
appear in other removal proceedings on prior indictments, does not
prevent the removal order being issued. The effect could only be
to exonerate the sureties.
The rule that the jurisdiction over the person by one Federal court
must be respected until exhausted is one of comity only, and has
a limited application in criminal cases. It will not prevent removal
under § 1014, Rev. Stat., where the cases are not the same.
Even if a second removal proceeding does amount to an election by
the Government to abandon the first complaint, that fact does not
affect the jurisdiction of the commissioner.
Disregard of comity between Federal courts at the instance of the
Government is not an invasion of constitutional rights of the accused.
It does not affect the jurisdiction of the commissioner, and even
if his decision is erroneous it cannot -be attacked on lhabea8 corpus.
Habeas corpus is not writ of error.
166 Fed. Rep. 627, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Nash Rockwood and Mr. Henry E. Davis, with whom
Mr. Max Steuer was on the brief, for appellant.1
1 For abstract of argument, see p. 463, ante.

