OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

336 U. S.

GIBONEY ET AL. v. EMPIRE STORAGE & ICE CO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 182.

Argued January 4-5, 1949.-Decided April 4, 1949.

A state court enjoined officers and members of a union of ice
peddlers from peacefully picketing appellee's place of business,
finding that the sole purpose of the picketing was to induce appellee to agree not to sell ice to non-union peddlers. The State
Supreme Court affirmed, holding that picketing for this purpose
violated a state statute forbidding agreements in restraint of
trade. Held: The state law, as construed and applied in this
case, does not violate the Federal Constitution, and the judgment
is affirmed. Pp. 491-504.
1. States have constitutional power to prohibit dealers and
their aiders and abettors from combining to restrain freedom of
trade. P. 495.
2. The guaranties of freedom of speech and press stemming
from the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the Federal Constitution do- not immunize members of labor unions from such
a valid state law. Pp. 495-497.
3. Nor do they prevent state courts from enjoining peaceful
picketing by members of a labor union in violation of such a
valid state law, even though the picketing involves dissemination
of truthful information about a labor dispute. Thornhill v.
Alabama, 310 U. S. 88; Carlson v. California, 310 U. S. 106, distinguished. Pp. 497-504.
(a) The constitutional freedom of speech and press does not
immunize speech or writing used as an integral part of conduct
in violation of a valid criminal statute. P. 498.
(b) The circumstances here justified restraint of the picketing,
since it was engaged in for the sole purpose of inducing a violation
of a valid state law. Pp. 501-504.
(c) The State, and not the labor union, has paramount constitutional power to regulate and govern the manner in which
certain trade practices may be carried on. P. 504.
357 Mo. 671, 210 S. W. 2d 55, affirmed.

A state trial court enjoined officers and members of a
labor union from picketing appellee's place of business

GIBONEY v. EMPIRE STORAGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

490

in order
restraint
§ 8301.
671, 210
p. 504.

491

to force appellee to enter into an agreement in
of trade in violation of Mo. Rev. Stat. Ann.,
The State Supreme Court affirmed. 357 Mo.
S.W. 2d 55. On appeal to this Court, affirmed,

Clif Langsdale argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellants. Clyde Taylor was also of counsel.
Richard K. Phelps submitted on brief for appellee.
Arthur J. Goldberg, Frank Donner and Thomas E.

Harrisfiled a memorandum for the Congress of Industrial
Organizations and its affiliated organizations, as amici
curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case here on appeal under 28 U. S. C. § 1257 raises

questions concerning the constitutional power of a state
to apply its anti-trade-restraint law 1 to labor union activities, and to enjoin union members from peaceful
picketing carried on as an essential and inseparable part
of a course of conduct which is in violation of the state
1 "Combinations

in restraint of trade declared a conspiracy
"Any person who shall create, enter into, become a member of or
participate in any pool, trust, agreement, combination, confederation
or understanding with any person or persons in restraint of trade or
competition in the importation, transportation, manufacture, purchase
or sale of any product or commodity in this state, or any article or
thing bought or sold whatsoever, shall be deemed and adjudged
guilty of a conspiracy in restraint of trade, and shall be punished
as provided in this article." Mo. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 8301 (1939).
And § 8305 provides that anyone violating § 8301 "shall be adjudged guilty of a felony, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by imprisonment in the penitentiary not exceeding five
years, or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one year,
or by a fine of not less than five hundred dollars nor more than
five thousand dollars, or by both such fine and imprisonment." Mo.
Rev. Stat. Ann. § 8305 (1939).

492.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

law. The picketing occurred in Kansas City, Missouri.
The injunction was issued by a Missouri state court.
The appellants are members and officers of the Ice and
Coal Drivers and Handlers Local Union No. 953, affiliated with the American Federation of Labor. Its membership includes about 160 of 200 retail ice peddlers who
drive their own trucks in selling ice from door to door in
Kansas City. The union began efforts to induce all the
nonunion peddlers to join. One objective of the organizational drive was to better wage and working conditions
of peddlers and their helpers. Most of the nonunion peddlers refused to join the union. To break down their
resistance the union adopted a plan which was designed
to make it impossible for nonunion peddlers to buy ice
to supply their retail customers in Kansas City. Pursuant to the plan the union set about to obtain from all
Kansas City wholesale ice distributors agreements that
they would not sell ice to nonunion peddlers. Agreements were obtained from all distributors except the
appellee, Empire Storage and Ice Company. Empire refused to agree. The union thereupon informed Empire
that it would use other means at its disposal to force
Empire to come around to the union view. Empire still
refused to agree. Its place of business was promptly
picketed by union members although the only complaint
registered against Empire, as indicated by placards carried by the pickets, was its continued sale of ice to nonunion peddlers.
Thus the avowed immediate purpose of the picketing
was to compel Empire to agree to stop selling ice to
nonunion peddlers. . Missouri statutes, set out in note 1,
make such an agreement a crime punishable by a fine of
not more than $5,000 and by imprisonment in the penitentiary for not more than five years. Furthermore,
under § 8308 of the Missouri Revised Statutes Ann.

GIBONEY v. EMPIRE STORAGE CO.
490

Opinion of the Court.

(1939), had Empire made the agreement, the ice peddlers
could have brought actions for triple damages for any
injuries they sustained as a result of the agreement.
About 85% of the truck drivers working for Empire's
customers were members of labor unions. These union
truck drivers refused to deliver goods to or from Empire's
place of business. Had any one of them crossed the
picket line he would have been subject to fine or suspension by the union of which he was a member.
Because of the foregoing facts shown either by admissions, by undisputed evidence, or by unchallenged findings, the picketing had an instantaneous adverse effect
on Empire's business. It was reduced 85%. In this
dilemma, Empire was faced with three alternatives: It
could continue to sell ice to nonunion peddlers, in which
event it would be compelled to wage a fight for survival
against overwhelming odds; it could stop selling ice to
nonunion peddlers thereby relieving itself from further
conflict with the union, in which event it would be subject
to prosecution for crime and suits for triple damages; it
could invoke the protection of the law. The last alternative was adopted.
Empire's complaint charged that the concerted efforts
of union members to restrain Empire from selling to
nonunion members was a violation of the anti-traderestraint statute and that an agreement by Empire to
refuse to make such sales would violate the same statute.
It prayed for an injunction against the picketing. In answering, appellants asserted a constitutional right to
picket Empire's premises in order to force it to discontinue sale of ice to nonunion peddlers. They contended
that their right to do so was "guaranteed by the First
and Fourteenth Amendments" because there was "a labor
dispute existing" between appellants and appellee, and
because the picketers publicized only the truthful infor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

mation that appellee was "selling ice to peddlers who
are not members of the said defendants' union."
The trial court heard evidence, made findings and issued an injunction restraining the appellants from "placing pickets or picketing around or about the buildings"
of Empire.
The State Supreme Court affirmed. 357 Mo. 671, 210
S. W. 2d 55. It agreed with the findings of the trial court
that the conduct of appellants was pursuant to a local
transportation combination used to compel Empire to
stop selling ice to nonunion peddlers and that the purpose
of the picketing was to force Empire to become a party
to such combination. It held that such activities were
unlawful because in violation of § 8301 of the Missouri
statutes and further held that the injunction to prevent
picketing for such unlawful purpose did not contravene
the appellants' right of free speech.
In this Court appellants do not raise problems similar to those discussed in Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S.
697, relating to censorship prior to publication as distinguished from sanctions to be imposed after publication, nor are their objections to the form, language, or
scope of the injunction. See Milk Wagon Drivers v.
Meadowmoor Dairies, 312 U. S. 287, 297-298, also dissenting opinion, 299-303. Attacking the Missouri statute as construed and applied, appellants broadly challenge
the power of the state to issue any injunction against their
conduct since, they assert, the primary objective of their
combination and picketing was to improve wage and
working conditions. On this premise they argue that
their right to combine, to picket, and to publish must
be determined by focusing attention exclusively upon
their lawful purpose to improve labor conditions, and
that their violation of the state anti-trade-restraint laws
must be dismissed as merely incidental to this lawful
purpose.

GIBONEY v. EMPIRE STORAGE CO.

495

Opinion of the Court.

490

First.That states have constitutional power to prohibit
competing dealers and their aiders and abettors from combining to restrain freedom of trade is beyond question.
Watson v. Buck, 313 U. S. 387, 403-404. In speaking of
the Missouri statutory antecedent of the statute here
challenged, this Court said: "The purpose of such statutes is to secure competition and preclude combinations which tend to defeat it. . . . There is nothing in
the Constitution of the United States Wvhich precludes a
State from adopting and enforcing such policy. To so
decide would be stepping backwards." International
Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199, 209. Agreements and combinations not to sell to or buy goods from
particular persons, or to dictate the terms under which
transportation will be supplied, are well recognized trade
restraint practices which both state and national legislation can and do prohibit. Grenada Lbr. Co. v. Mississippi, 217 U. S.433, 440-441; Eastern States Lbr. Assn.
v. United States, 234 U. S.600, 612-614; Fashion Guild
v. Trade Comm'n, 312 U. S.457, 465; United States v.
Freight Assn., 166 U. S.290, 324-325.
Second. It is contended that though the Missouri statute can be applied validly to combinations of businessmen
who agree not to sell to certain persons, it cannot be applied constitutionally to combinations of union workers
who agree in their self-interest to use their joint power
to prevent sales to nonunion workers. This contention
appears to be grounded on the guaranties of freedom of
speech and press stemming from the Fourteenth and First
Amendments. Aside from the element of disseminating
information through peaceful picketers, later discussed, it
is difficult to perceive how it could be thought that these
constitutional guaranties afford labor union members a
peculiar immunity from laws against trade restraint combinations, unless, as appellants contend, labor unions are
823978 0-49----36

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

given special constitutional protection denied all other
people.2
The objective of unions to improve wages and working
conditions has sometimes commended itself to Congress
and to state legislatures. To the extent that the states
or Congress, for this or other reasons, have seen fit to
exempt unions from antitrust laws, this Court has sustained legislative power to grant the exemptions. International Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199; Allen
Bradley Co. v. Union, 325 U. S. 797, 810-811; United
States v. Hutcheson, 312 U. S. 219, 232-234; and see
Tigner v. Texas, 310 U. S. 141. On the other hand,
where statutes have not granted exemptions, we have
declared that violations of antitrust laws could not be
defended on the ground that a particular accused combination would not injure but would actually help manufacturers, laborers, retailers, consumers, or the public in
general. Fashion Guild v. Trade Comm'n, 312 U. S. 457,
467-468. More than thirty years ago this Court said
(InternationalHarvester Co. v. Missouri, supra, at 209):
"It is too late in the day to assert against statutes
which forbid combinations of competing companies that
a particular combination was induced by good intentions .

. . ."

See also United States v. Socony-Vacuum

Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 220-221; Mandeville Farms v.
Sugar Co., 334 U. S. 219, 242-243.
2 Appellants say, after quoting from a concurring opinion in United
States v. Hutcheson, 312 U. S. 219, 243, "We believe, therefore, that
it is perfectly clear that a state may not apply either statutory or
common law policies concerning restraint of trade to illegalize combinations among workingmen for the purpose of eliminating wage
competition throughout a trade or industry." And petitioners further argue that a state may not "make it unlawful for an employer
to acquiesce in union demands that he refrain from supplying goods
to nonunion peddlers ..

GIBONEY v. EMPIRE STORAGE CO.
490

Opinion of the Court.

The foregoing holdings rest on the premise that legislative power to regulate trade and commerce includes the
power to determine what groups, if any, shall be regulated,
and whether certain regulations will help or injure businessmen, workers, and the public in general.' In making
this determination Missouri has decided to apply its law
without exception to all persons who combine to restrain
freedom of trade. We are without constitutional authority to modify or upset Missouri's determination that it is
in the public interest to make combinations of workers
subject to laws designed to keep the channels of trade
wholly free and open. To exalt all labor union conduct
in restraint of trade above all state control would greatly
reduce the traditional powers of states over their domestic
economy and might conceivably make it impossible for
them to enforce their anti-trade-restraint laws. See Allen
Bradley Co. v. Union, 325 U. S. 797, 810. More than
that, if for the reasons here contended states cannot
subject union members to such anti-trade-restraint laws
as Missouri's, neither can Congress. The Constitution
has not so greatly impaired the states' or nation's power
to govern.
Third. It is contended that the injunction against picketing adjacent to Empire's place of business is an unconstitutional abridgment of free speech because the
3 In the International Harvester Co. case, 234 U. S. 199,
the then
Missouri statute was construed as inapplicable to combinations of
purchasers and laborers. For this reason the statute was challenged
as denying equal protection of the laws. Replying to the challenge,
this Court said at p. 210: "Whether it would have been better policy
to have made such comprehensive classification it is not our province
to decide. In other words, whether a combination of wage earners
or purchasers of commodities called for repression by law under the
conditions in the State was for the legislature of the State to
determine."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

picketers were attempting peacefully to publicize truthful
facts about a labor dispute. See Thornhill v. Alabama,
310 U. S. 88, 102, and Allen Bradley Co. v. Union, 325
U. S. 797, 807, note 12. But the record here does not
permit this publicizing to be treated in isolation. For
according to the pleadings, the evidence, the findings,
and the argument of the appellants, the sole immediate
object of the publicizing adjacent to the premises of
Empire, as well as the other activities of the appellants
and their allies, was to compel Empire to agree to stop
selling ice to nonunion peddlers. Thus all of appellants' activities-their powerful transportation combination, their patrolling, their formation of a picket line
warning union men not to cross at peril of their union
membership, their publicizing-constituted a single and
integrated course of conduct, which was in violation of
Missouri's valid law. In this situation, the injunction
did no more than enjoin an offense against Missouri law,
a felony.
It rarely has been suggested that the constitutional
freedom for speech and press extends its immunity to
speech or writing used as an integral part of conduct in
violation of a valid criminal statute. We reject the contention now. Nothing that was said or decided in any
of the cases relied on by appellants calls for a different
holding.
Neither Thornhill v. Alabama, supra, nor Carlson v.
California, 310 U. S. 106, both decided the same day,
supports the contention that conduct otherwise unlawful
is always immune from state regulation because an integral part of that conduct is carried on by display of
placards by peaceful picketers. In both these cases this
Court struck down statutes which banned all dissemination of information by people adjacent to certain premises, pointing out that the statutes were so broad that
they could not only be utilized to punish conduct plainly

GIBONEY v. EMPIRE STORAGE CO.
490

499

Opinion of the Court.

illegal but could also be applied to ban all truthful publications of the facts of a labor controversy. But in the
Thornhill opinion, at pp. 103-104, the Court was careful
to point out that it was within the province of states "to
set the limits of permissible contest open to industrial
combatants." See Lincoln Labor Union v. Northwestern
Iron & Metal Co., 335 U. S. 525, 536; Allen-Bradley
Local v. Board, 315 U. S. 740, 748-751. Further emphasizing the power of a state "to set the limits of permissible
contest open to industrial combatants" the Court cited
with approval the opinion of Mr. Justice Brandeis in
Duplex PrintingCo. v. Deering,254 U. S. 443, at 488. On
that page the opinion stated:
"The conditions developed in industry may be such
that those engaged in it cannot continue their struggle without danger to the community. But it is not
for judges to determine whether such conditions exist,
nor is it their function to set the limits of permissible
contest and to declare the duties which the new situation demands. This is the function of the legislature
which, while limiting individual and group rights of
aggression and defense, may substitute processes of
justice for the more primitive method of trial by
combat."
After emphasizing state power over industrial conflicts, the Court in the Thornhill opinion went on to say,
at p. 104, that states may not "in dealing with the evils
arising from industrial disputes . . . impair the effective

exercise of the right to discuss freely industrial relations .

. . ."

This statement must be considered in its

context. It was directed toward a sweeping state prohibition which this Court found to embrace "nearly every
practicable, effective means whereby those interestedincluding the employees directly affected-may enlighten
the public on the nature and causes of a labor dispute."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

That the general statement of the limitation of a state's
power to impair free speech was not intended to apply
to the fact situation presented here is further indicated
by the cases cited with approval in note 21 of the
Thornhill opinion.'
Appellants also rely on Carpenters Union v. Ritter's
Cafe, 315 U. S. 722, and Bakery Drivers Local v. Wohl,
315 U. S. 769, decided the same day. Neither lends
support to the contention that peaceful picketing is
beyond legislative control. The Court's opinion in the
Ritter case approvingly quoted a part of the Thornhill
opinion which recognized broad state powers over industrial conflicts. In the Wohl case, the Court's opinion
at p. 775 found no "violence, force or coercion, or conduct otherwise unlawful or oppressive" and said that
4 Eastern States Lumber Dealers v. United States, 234 U. S. 600,
was cited in note 21. In that case the lumber association was a
combination of retail lumber dealers found by the court to have
conspired to prevent wholesale dealers from selling directly to consumers of lumber. The sole basis for the injunction was the distribution and dissemination of truthful information by the association
to its members in an official report. This Court sustained the decree
which broadly enjoined the distribution of this truthful information.
The cases cited in note 21 of the Thornhill opinion include the following, strongly emphasizing states' powers to regulate their internal
industrial and economic affairs and rejecting contentions that challenged regulations violated the Federal Constitution. Senn v. Tile
Layers Union, 301 U. S. 468; West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,
300 U. S. 379; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502; Dorchy v.
Kansas, 272 U. S. 306; Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194; Holden
v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366. Another case cited in note 21 of the
Thornhill opinion was Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States, 309
U. S. 436. It also involved a violation of the federal antitrust
laws, and once again this Court sustained the power of the Government to enjoin trade practices deemed in violation of those
laws. The only other case cited in note 21, Labor Board v. Newport News Co., 308 U. S. 241, sustained an order against an employer
which restrained it from using its influence over employees to interfere
with their activities.

GIBONEY v. EMPIRE STORAGE CO.
490

501

Opinion of the Court.

"A state is not required to tolerate in all places ...
even peaceful picketing by an individual." A concurring opinion in the Wohl case, at pp. 776-777, pointed
out that picketing may include conduct other than speech,
conduct which can be made the subject of restrictive
legislation. No opinions relied on by petitioners assert
a constitutional right in picketers to take advantage of
speech or press to violate valid laws designed to protect
important interests of society.5
We think the circumstances here and the reasons advanced by the Missouri courts justify restraint of the
picketing which was done in violation of Missouri's valid
law for the sole immediate purpose of continuing a violation of law. In holding this, we are mindful of the
essential importance to our society of a vigilant protection of freedom of speech and press. Bridges v. California, 314 U. S. 252, 263. States cannot consistently
5Both parties here rely on the Ritter case. Empire contends
that this Court affirmed the action of the Texas courts on the basis
of the state's antitrust law. Appellants argue that this Court upheld
the Texas injunction on the ground that the business picketed did
not bear a sufficiently close relation to the labor dispute to justify
picketing at that place. Since the Court relied on this ground,
appellants contend that the Court impliedly rejected the contention
that the injunction was justified because of an alleged violation of
the antitrust laws. This Court's opinion in the Ritter case, as well
as the dissents, did emphasize questions other than the antitrust
act contentions. The Court of Civil Appeals of Texas had not mentioned the Texas antitrust laws in its first or second opinion in the
Ritter case. 138 S. W. 2d 223, 149 S. W. 2d 694. A third opinion,
denying rehearing, did make reference for the first time to the state's
antitrust laws, but did not definitely point out in what way the
picketers' conduct violated any specific provision of these laws. 149
S. W. 2d 694, 699. Under these circumstances nothing that was said
in the Ritter opinion stands for the principle that speech and writings,
utilized as a part of conduct engaged in only to break a valid antitrade-restraint law, render that course of conduct immune from state
control.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

with our Constitution abridge those freedoms to obviate
slight inconveniences or annoyances. Schneider v. State,
308 U. S. 147, 162. But placards used as an essential
and inseparable part of a grave offense against an important public law cannot immunize that unlawful conduct from state control. Virginia Electric Co. v. Board,
319 U. S. 533, 539; Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516,
536, 537, 538, 539-540. Nor can we say that the publication here should not have been restrained because of
the possibility of separating the picketing conduct into
illegal and legal parts. Thomas v. Collins, supra, at 547.
For the placards were to effectuate the purposes of an
unlawful combination, and their sole, unlawful immediate
objective was to induce Empire to violate the Missouri
law by acquiescing in unlawful demands to agree not to
sell ice to nonunion peddlers. It is true that the agreements and course of conduct here were as in most instances brought about through speaking or writing. But
it has never been deemed an abridgment of freedom
of speech or press to make a course of conduct illegal
merely because the conduct was in part initiated, evidenced, or carried out by means of language, either
spoken, written, or printed. See e. g., Fox v. Washington,
236 U. S. 273, 277; Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315
U. S. 568. Such an expansive interpretation of the constitutional guaranties of speech and press would make it
practically impossible ever to enforce laws against agreements in restraint of trade as well as many other agreements and conspiracies deemed injurious to society.
The interest of Missouri in enforcement of its antitrust
laws cannot be classified as an effort to outlaw only a slight
public inconvenience or annoyance. The Missouri policy
against restraints of trade is of long standing and is in most
respects the same as that which the Federal Government
has followed for more than half a century. It is clearly
drawn in an attempt to afford all persons an equal oppor-

GIBONEY v. EMPIRE STORAGE CO.
490

503

Opinion of the Court.

tunity to buy goods. There was clear danger, imminent
and immediate, that unless restrained, appellants would
succeed in making that policy a dead letter insofar as
purchases by nonunion men were concerned. Appellants'
power with that of their allies was irresistible. And it is

clear that appellants were doing more than exercising a
right of free speech or press.

Bakery Drivers Local v.

Wohl, 315 U. S. 769, 776-777.

They were exercising

their economic power together with that of their allies to

compel Empire to abide by union rather than by state
regulation of trade.'
What we have said emphasizes that this is not a
case in which it can be assumed that injury from appel-

lants' conduct would be limited to this single appellee.
Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 104-105. Missouri,
acting within its power, has decided that such restraints

of trade as petitioners sought are against the interests
"Picketing by an organized group is more than free speech, since
it involves patrol of a particular locality and since the very presence
of a picket line may induce action of one kind or another, quite
irrespective of the nature of the ideas which are being disseminated.
Hence those aspects of picketing make it the subject of restrictive
regulation." Bakery Drivers Local v. Wohl, supra, at 776-777.
The opinion in Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 537-538 stated:
'...When to this persuasion other things are added which bring
about coercion, or give it that character, the limit of the right has
been passed. . . . But short of that limit the employer's freedom
cannot be impaired. The Constitution protects no less the employees' converse right. Of course espousal of the cause of labor
is entitled to no higher constitutional protection than the espousal
of any other lawful cause. It is entitled to the same protection."
A concurring opinion in Thomas v. Collins, at 543-544, stated
this: "But once he uses the economic power which he has over
other men and their jobs to influence their action, he is doing
more than exercising the freedom of speech protected by the First
Amendment. That is true whether he be an employer or an employee. But as long as he does no more than speak he has the same
unfettered right, no matter what side of an issue he espouses."
6

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

of the whole public. This decision is in accord with the
general ideas underlying all anti-trade-restraint laws. It
is not for us to overrule this clearly adopted state policy.
While the State of Missouri is not a party in this case,
it is plain that the basic issue is whether Missouri or
a labor union has paramount constitutional power to regulate and govern the manner in which certain trade practices shall be carried on in Kansas City, Missouri. Missouri has by statute regulated trade one way. The
appellant union members have adopted a program to
regulate it another way. The state has provided for enforcement of its statutory rule by imposing civil and
criminal sanctions. The union has provided for enforcement of its rule by sanctions against union members who
cross picket lines. See Associated Press v. United States,
326 U. S. 1, 19; Fashion Guild v. Trade Comm'n, supra,
at 465; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175
U. S. 211, 242. We hold that the state's power to govern
in this field is paramount, and that nothing in the constitutional guaranties of speech or press compels a state
to apply or not to apply its anti-trade-restraint law to
groups of workers, businessmen or others. Of course
this Court does not pass on the wisdom of the Missouri
statute. We hold only that as here construed and applied it does not violate the Federal Constitution.
Affirmed.

