OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

CALLAWAY, TRUSTEE,

ET AL.

336 U. S.

v. BENTON

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE

No. 21.

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Argued October 19, 1948.-Decided February 7, 1949.

A railroad in reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act had
for many years leased and operated the property of another railroad, which was solvent and not in reorganization. Under the
plan of reorganization approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission and the bankruptcy court, the lessor was given the alternative of selling all of its property to the reorganized company on
specified terms or having its lease disaffirmed and its property returned. A majority of the lessor's stockholders voted to accept
the offer, but a substantial minority voted to reject it. In a suit
brought by minority stockholders, a state court issued a temporary
injunction restraining the officers and directors from selling the
property or certifying the company's acceptance of the offer to
the Commission, on the ground that state law required unanimous
consent of the stockholders to such a sale. The bankruptcy court
enjoined further prosecution of the state action and declared the
state court's temporary injunction null and void as in excess of its
jurisdiction.
Held: Under the narrow facts presented here, the
bankruptcy court erred in enjoining the state court suit leading
to a determination of the requirements of state law with respect
to the sale of the entire assets of the lessor. Pp. 134-151.
1. Since the lessor was not being reorganized along with the lessee
and the plan of reorganization gave the lessor the unfettered right
to accept or reject the offer to purchase all its property, the question whether the offer could be accepted by less than a unanimous
vote of the lessor's shareholders was a question of state, not federal,
law. Pp. 136-141.
(a) The Bankruptcy Act gives no clue as to what proportion
of the lessor's stockholders must vote to accept the offer if state
law is not controlling. P. 139.
(b) The majority vote provision of § 5 (11) of the Interstate
Commerce Act is not applicable in this case, since this is not a
proceeding under that Act. Pp. 139-140.
(c) The Bankruptcy Act does not give the Commission or the
court the right to require acceptance by a lessor not in reorganiza-

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

Statement of the Case.

tion of an offer for the purchase of its property, and no such power
was asserted by the Commission in this case. P. 141.
2. The bankruptcy court did not have exclusive jurisdiction to
decide this question of state law. Pp. 141-149.
(a) While § 77 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act gives the bankruptcy
court exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its property, it does
not give the bankruptcy court exclusive jurisdiction over all controversies that in some way affect the debtor's estate. P. 142.
(b) The interest here involved was not a part of the property
of the debtor but the lessor's reversion in fee; and the issue concerned the rights of the lessor's stockholders inter sese to sell their
reversionary interest in the property. Pp. 142-143.
(c) The lessor not being in reorganization, its internal management was not subject to the control of the bankruptcy court.
Pp. 144-146.
(d) The purchase of formerly leased properties does not involve rights asserted by the lessor against the debtor; it is a creditor
in the proceedings only by virtue of its claims against the debtor
under the lease and for breach of the lease. Pp. 146-147.
(e) The jurisdiction asserted by the district court over a solvent lessor not in reorganization was not justified by any provision of § 77. Pp. 146-148.
3. In the circumstances of this case, Continental Illinois Bank v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 648, and other cases dealing
with the power of an equity court to prevent the defeat or impairment of its jurisdiction do not support the bankruptcy court's
injunction against the state court action and its determination of
the issue there involved. Pp. 149-151.
165 F. 2d 877, affirmed.

A federal district court having jurisdiction of a proceeding to reorganize a railroad under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act enjoined further proceedings in a state court
to determine the rights inter sese under state law of stockholders of another railroad not in reorganization to sell
to the railroad being reorganized certain property leased
to and operated by the latter. The Court of Appeals
reversed. 165 F. 2d 877. This Court granted certiorari.
333 U. S. 853. Affirmed, p. 151.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

T. M. Cunningham argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were A. R. Lawton, Jr., Walter A.
Harris and Wallace Miller.
Charles J. Bloch argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was Ellsworth Hall, Jr.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Central of Georgia Railway Company, whose
Trustee is the petitioner here, and its predecessor have
leased and operated the property of the South Western
Railroad Company since 1869. The Central went into
receivership in 1932, and in 1940 entered reorganization
under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act. 49 Stat. 911, 11
U. S. C. § 205. South Western's lease was adopted successively by Central's Receiver and Trustees. It has, in
consequence, remained solvent, and no petition for reorganization has ever been filed in its behalf.
Under the plan of reorganization of the Central approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission and
by the district court, South Western is given the alternative of selling its property to the reorganized company in return for a fixed amount of bonds of the latter,
or of having the lease disaffirmed by the debtor and its
property returned.' South Western appeared specially
' With respect to South Western's property, the plan reads as follows: "Prior to or upon consummation of the plan the debtor shall
also acquire, if they can be acquired on the terms hereinafter set
forth, properties at present leased to the debtor by the South Western
Railroad Company . ... If any of these properties shall not be acquired as a result of the acceptance of the plan by the leased-line
security holders, then and in that event the lease or leases of any line
or lines not so acquired shall be disaffirmed as of such time at or
prior to the consummation of the plan as the court may direct. The
method of acquisition, whether through purchase, merger, or consolidation, shall, subject to the approval of the Commission and the

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

Opinion of the Court.

in the reorganization proceedings and asked that its lease
be adopted by the reorganized company, but on the basis
of studies and estimates not now open to challenge, the
Commission rejected the proposal and found that the
amount offered for its properties appears "fair and equitable and to equal the value of the transportation property,
'
and [is] approved. 2
Following Commission and court approval of the plan,
South Western's officers, reversing their previous stand,
urged acceptance of the offer by its stockholders and signified their intention of conveying the company's property
to the Central if a majority of the stockholders voted to
accept. Thereupon the respondents, who are individual
stockholders of South Western, brought an action in the
Superior Court of Bibb County, Georgia, where South
Western's principal office is located, asking for an injunction against South Western, its officers and directors, restraining them from certifying the company's acceptance
of the offer to the Interstate Commerce Commission or
from selling the railroad's property to the reorganized
debtor if, upon a vote of the stockholders, a "mere majority" of the stock was voted in favor of the plan. The basis
of the petition for injunction was the contention that
under the laws of Georgia, where South Western was incourt, be determined by the trustee or by the reorganization managers when they begin to function.
"If the leased lines are acquired, the railroads of each of the three
and the personal property appurtenant thereto and all of the real
estate owned by each lessor shall be conveyed to the reorganized
company; each of said lessors shall waive any damages to which
it has become or shall become entitled on account of any breach
of lease; and the South Western Railroad Company shall waive
all claims in respect to equipment. Such conveyances and waivers
shall in each instance be on the sole consideration of the delivery to
each of the respective lessors of the securities proposed to be allocated
to it, as hereinafter specified." 261 I. C. C. 501, 515.
2261 I. C. C. 263, 309.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

corporated, the entire assets of the company cannot be
sold except upon unanimous approval of the stockholders.
Before a decision was reached in the state court action,
a meeting of South Western's stockholders was held at
which the offer of purchase incorporated in the Central's
plan of reorganization was considered. 30,137 shares were
voted in favor of acceptance against 9,057 shares favoring
rejection. Petitioner, acting as Trustee of the Central,
which was not a party to the state court suit, then
filed a petition in the bankruptcy court asking that respondents and other stockholders of South Western be
enjoined from further prosecution of the state court action,
and a temporary restraining order was entered as prayed.
Thereupon the state court, of its own motion, entered an
interlocutory injunction restraining the officers and directors of South Western from selling its property, on the
ground that such a sale under Georgia law requires unanimous consent of the stockholders. Petitioner then
amended his petition in the bankruptcy court by bringing
to its attention the injunctive order of the state court, and,
after holding hearings, the federal district court granted
a permanent injunction restraining further prosecution
of the state action and declared the state court's temporary injunction null and void as in excess of its jurisdiction.
Upon appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit,
one judge dissenting, reversed the order of the district
court. 165 F. 2d 877. We granted the petition for a writ
of certiorari ' because of the conflict between state and
federal authority and the importance of the question in
the administration of the Bankruptcy Act.
First. The district court's injunction was based primarily on the premise that the plan of reorganization requires the inclusion of South Western's lines within the
3333 U. S. 853.

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

Opinion of the Court.

system of the reorganized company. The state action is
said to be an attempt on the part of respondents "to prevent the consummation of the plan as respects South
Western." Again, the court held that "the question of
the consolidation, merger and sale, and under what conditions South Western may convey its property to the
reorganized Company, in consummation of the plan, is not
a question of State law; it is a question of Bankruptcy
law-a question which arises under the Bankruptcy Act
and the Interstate Commerce Act." The court's conclusion was, therefore, that although the question whether
a Georgia railroad corporation can convey all of its properties without unanimous consent of its stockholders
would ordinarily be one of state law cognizable in the
state's courts, under these circumstances the decision was
one for the bankruptcy court applying federal law.
We do not agree. The language of the plan and the
factors which the Commission took into consideration in
arriving at the amount offered South Western for its
properties indicate clearly that, so far as the reorganization plan contemplates acquisition of the lessor railroad,
the ordinary rules of offer and acceptance were intended
to apply. That has invariably been the practice. As a
consequence, we have held that the amount which may
be offered a lessor is a question of "business judgment";
that "if the Commission deems it desirable to keep the
leased line in the system, it must necessarily have rather
broad discretion in providing modifications of the lease
where, as here, the lessor is not being reorganized along
with the debtor. For under that assumption the modification must be sufficiently attractive to insure acceptance
by the lessor or its creditors." Group of Institutional
Investors v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 318 U. S.523,
550 (1943). The plan itself recites that the leased lines
are to be acquired only "if they can be acquired on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

terms hereinafter set forth."' Otherwise, the lease is to
be disaffirmed and the property returned to the lessor.
In addition, the record is replete with statements by the
Commission, the court, and the parties that South Western's stockholders are to have the choice open to any
offeree: an unfettered right to accept or reject.5
Under these circumstances, we can see no reason why
the ordinary incidents of a sale of the assets of a corporation should not be applicable. One of the most important
of these is, of course, the question of the proportion of a
corporation's stock which must be voted in favor of accepting the offer of purchase in order to make its acceptance effective. Since, as the district court held, this
would ordinarily be a question of Georgia law, we believe
that substitution of any other rule of law is erroneous.'
I.C. C. 515.
5 In its report approving the plan, the Commission said (261
I. C. C. at p. 308): "The lessor [South Western) insists that it
has the right to severance if it cares to exercise it, and such a right
will be recognized in the approved plan." The district court, in
approving the plan, commented that "If the lessors do not accept the
proposal to acquire their lines they are, on disaffirmance, at liberty
to take their properties back," while counsel for the Trustee stated
at a meeting of South Western's stockholders, "The plan makes an
offer to you gentlemen; that is all it does."
0 This precise problem has received little attention from commentators. It was not mentioned in the Committee reports or in debate
when § 77 and its 1935 amendments were passed. However, the
position of the leased line, a majority of whose stock is not owned by
the debtor and which is not in reorganization, is analyzed by Meck,
The Problems of the Leased Line, 7 Law and Contemp. Prob. 509, 518,
as follows: "Upon rejection of the lease, although the leased line remains in the custody of the lessee's trustees, it is not part of the
lessee's estate and security holders having interests in it cannot be
bound in the lessee's reorganization. Consequently, if the lessee's plan
provides for a modified lease or merger or consolidation, such a provision is little more than an offer to the lessor. Acceptance of this offer
will be determined, not by submitting the lessee's plan to the lessor's
security holders, pursuant to Section 77, but according to the law
4261

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

Opinion of the Court.

Not the least of the difficulties with a contrary result is
the fact that the Bankruptcy Act gives no clue to what
proportion of the lessor's stockholders must vote to accept
the offer if state law is not controlling. Section 77 (e)
provides that confirmation of a plan requires acceptance
by creditors holding two-thirds in amount of the total
allowed claims of each class voting on the plan, but that
the judge may confirm the plan in any event "if he is satisfied and finds, after hearing, that it makes adequate
provision for fair and equitable treatment for the interests
or claims of those rejecting it." But neither the twothirds vote provision nor the so-called "cram-down" provision applies to a lessor not in reorganization or its stockholders. They apply to "creditors of each class whose
claims have been filed and allowed in accordance with the
requirements of subsection (c) of this section," which
And, alobviously does not include a lessor-offeree'
though South Western is a "creditor" under the specific
terms of § 77 (b), its stockholders, individually, are not.
The district court sought to find a federal rule permitting acceptance by a simple majority vote of the shareholders in the provisions of § 5 (11) of the Interstate Commerce Act.8 But that section relates to voluntary mergof the state where the lessor is incorporated." It is also pointed out
that when the rights of bondholders of the lessor may be affected, as
was the case with Terre Haute bondholders in the Milwaukee Railroad reorganization (see Group of InstitutionalInvestors v. Chicago,
M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 318 U. S. 523, and discussion infra), nearly
unanimous consent of such bondholders may be required before the
changes can be made effective. The Interstate Commerce Commission took that position in the Milwaukee case and provided that
the offer to Terre Haute should not be deemed accepted unless substantially all of its bondholders voted to accept. Chicago, M., St. P.
& P. R. Co. Reorganization, 239 I. C. C. 485, 536-538; 240 I. C. C.
257, 270-271. See also 318 U. S. at 532-533.
See In re New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 54 F. Supp. 631, at 638.
8
54 Stat. 905, 49 U. S. C §5 (11).

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

ers, not to the purchase of a leased line as part of a plan
of reorganization. The Commission can undoubtedly
carry on § 5 proceedings simultaneously with § 77 reorganization proceedings, see United States v. Lowden, 308
U. S. 225 (1939), but that procedure was not followed in
this case. The Commission preferred, instead, to carry
out the consolidation under the authority of § 77 (b) (5)
of the Bankruptcy Act, which provides that the plan of
reorganization may include "the merger or consolidation
of the debtor with another corporation or corporations."
That power flows from a different source than the power
over consolidations under the Interstate Commerce Act.
While some of the findings required of the Commission
under the two Acts are similar, and § 77 (f) provides that
consolidation and merger of the debtor's property shall
not be inconsistent with the provisions and purposes of
chapter 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act, their procedural and jurisdictional requirements do not overlap.'
It may be noted, in addition, that § 5 (11) contains a proviso that the majority vote provision shall not apply if
"a different vote is required under applicable State law,
in which case the number so required shall assent."
Whether that proviso is operative when a state's law requires unanimous consent of the shareholders is a question
we need not decide.
Nothing that we have said derogates in any way from
decisions of this Court upholding the power of the Interstate Commerce Commission, in the exercise of its statutory obligations, to override state laws interposing
9See In re Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., 168 F. 2d 587, where the
State of Texas made the argument that the findings required by the
Interstate Commerce Commission under subsections 2 (b), (c), and
(f) of § 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act in proceedings for merger
or consolidation of railroads are mandatory in proceedings under
§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act.

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

Opinion of the Court.

obstacles in the path of otherwise lawful plans of reorganization. We have recently reaffirmed that power in cases
arising under the Interstate Commerce Act." Nor is the
ambit of federal power less broad in cases arising under
the bankruptcy laws of the United States. Section 77 (f)
of the Bankruptcy Act specifically provides that the plan
of reorganization shall be put into effect, "the laws of
any State or the decision or order of any State authority
to the contrary notwithstanding." The statute does not,
however, give the Commission or court the right to require
acceptance by a lessor not in reorganization of an offer
for the purchase of its property, and no such power has
been asserted by the Commission in this case. The plan
of reorganization in effect hands South Western a contract
of sale. Whether or not South Western signs the contract
must depend not only upon its business judgment, but
also upon the charter of the company and the laws of the
state of its incorporation. There is therefore no occasion
to override state law. The plan implicitly accepts it as
controlling. The fact that the law may make acceptance
of the offer less likely than would be the case if the offeree
were incorporated elsewhere does not change the picture.
We do not believe that Congress intended to leave to
individual judges the question of whether state laws
should be accepted or disregarded, Palmer v. Massachusetts, 308 U. S. 79 (1939), or to make the criterion to be
applied the effect of the law upon the prospects of acceptance by the offeree.
Second. The district court further held that even if
Georgia law governs the question of the authority of
South Western's officers to sell its properties the bankruptcy court has exclusive jurisdiction to decide the state
10
Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. Daniel, 333 U. S. 118; Schwabacher
v. United States, 334 U. S. 182; Texas v. United States, 292 U. S.
522.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

law question. We have held that a court of bankruptcy
has exclusive and nondelegable control over the administration of an estate in its possession. Thompson v. MagnoliaPetroleum Co., 309 U. S. 478 (1940); Isaacs v. Hobbs
Tie & T. Co., 282 U. S. 734 (1931). There can be no
question, however, that Congress did not give the bankruptcy court exclusive jurisdiction over all controversies
that in some way affect the debtor's estate." One excep2
tion is found in the express language of the statute."
What it did give is exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor
and its property wherever located. § 77 (a). The interest held by the debtor in South Western's lines was a
leasehold estate. Such an estate is the debtor's "property" within the meaning of the Act. Any controversy
involving that estate would have been within the exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court.
Here, however, the question involves not the debtor's
leasehold, but the reversion in fee held by South Western
as lessor. South Western was not in reorganization
jointly with its lessee, nor could it have been reorganized
in the Central's proceedings. 3 The controversy which
"Arkansas Corporation Commission v. Thompson, 313 U. S. 132;

Gardner v. New Jersey, 329 U. S. 565. See Thompson v. Terminal
Shares, Inc., 104 F. 2d 1. Even when the controversy involves property within the exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, that
court may, in its discretion, postpone action pending adjudication of
the question in another court. Ex parte Baldwin, 291 U. S. 610;
Thompson v. Magnolia Petroleum Co., 309 U. S. 478; Order of Railway Conductors v. Pitney, 326 U. S. 561. See Foust v. Munson
S. S. Lines, 299 U. S. 77. Cf. Railroad Commission v. Pullman Co.,
312 U. S. 496; Chicago v. Fieldcrest Dairies,316 U. S. 168. Whether,
if the bankruptcy court had had exclusive jurisdiction in this case,
it should have withheld decision of the state law question pending
the outcome of the state court action, we need not decide.
12 § 77 (j).
13 Under the provisions of § 77, as amended in 1935, a lessor railroad can be reorganized in connection with, or as a part of the plan
of reorganization of the debtor-lessee only if a majority of its capital

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

Opinion of the Court.

respondents initiated in the state court, and which the
district court decided after having enjoined the state proceedings, requires a determination of the rights of the
stockholders of South Western inter se to sell their reversionary interest in the property. We think that the interest here involved is not part of the property of the debtor,
and that the district court's assertion of exclusive jurisdiction was error.
In Ex parte Baldwin, 291 U. S. 610 (1934), we said
(at p. 615): "All property in the possession of a bankrupt of which he claims the ownership passes, upon the
filing of a petition in bankruptcy, into the custody of the
court of bankruptcy. To protect its jurisdiction from
interference, that court may issue an injunction." In the
Baldwin case this Court upheld the bankruptcy court's
exclusive jurisdiction under § 77 to adjudicate the question of forfeiture by the debtor of an easement of right
of way-clearly a part of the property of the debtor of
which it claimed ownership. See Thompson v. Magnolia
Petroleum Co., supra. In Warren v. Palmer, 310 U. S.
132 (1940), where the debtor under § 77, the New Haven
Railroad, was lessee of property but had rejected the lease
and was operating the property for the account of the
lessor under § 77 (c) (6), we held that the bankruptcy
court had exclusive jurisdiction to fix the amount of the
deficit resulting from such operation and to declare it a
stock is owned by the debtor. § 77 (a). When § 77 was first enacted
in 1933, a lessor could also be reorganized in the lessee's proceedings
if the debtor operated substantially all of the properties of the lessor,
but this provision was not reenacted, even though it was proposed
in the draft amendments submitted by the Federal Coordinator of
Transportation, whose proposals formed the basis of the 1935
amendments. Report of the Federal Coordinator of Transportation,
1934. H. R. Doc. No. 89, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 230. See Friendly,
Amendment of the Railroad Reorganization Act, 36 Col. L. Rev.
27, 49; Meek and Masten, Railroad Leases and Reorganization, 49
Yale L. J. 626, 653.
823978 0-49----14

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

lien upon the property of the lessor. Since the physical
property covered by the rejected lease was within the
custody of the bankruptcy court, the fact that legal title
remained in the lessor was thought to be immaterial.
Clearly, control of the physical property must remain in
the court which has the ultimate responsibility for operating it. And in order to protect the estate of the debtor
from dissipation through losses suffered in the operation
of the lessor's property, responsibility for the determination of the amount of the losses and provision for their
recoupment from the lessor was properly lodged in the
court supervising the reorganization of the debtor.
Equally clear, however, is the fact that the internal
management of the lessor is not properly subject to the
court's control. The anomaly of petitioner's position is
demonstrated by the facts of the case just discussed. The
New Haven reorganization was proceeding in a Connecticut federal district court, while the lessor railroad, the
Boston & Providence, was in reorganization under § 77 in
a Massachusetts district court. The plan of reorganization of the New Haven, like the Central's plan in this
case, contemplated the purchase of the lessor's property.
Since the Boston & Providence reorganization court had
exclusive jurisdiction of its property, it can hardly be contended that the New Haven reorganization court could
assume exclusive jurisdiction to decide questions arising,
for example, between different classes of creditors of the
Boston & Providence as to whether the New Haven's
offer should be accepted. Such a result would be incompatible with the Massachusetts district court's exclusive
jurisdiction over the property of the Boston & Providence
under § 77 (a).14 Insofar as the power of the court re14 A similar question arose in another phase of the New Haven
reorganization proceedings, in connection with the use by the debtor

of the Boston Terminal, which was in reorganization under § 77 in

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

Opinion of the Court.

organizing the lessee rests on its jurisdiction over the
property of the debtor, the fact that the lessor here is not
in reorganization in another court is immaterial.
Further support for this position is found in our decision
in Group of Institutional Investors v. Chicago, M., St. P.
& P. R. Co., supra. The Milwaukee reorganization, in
one of its aspects, presented a situation analogous to the
one now before us: the lessee was in reorganization under
§ 77, but no proceedings had been instituted for the reorganization of the lessor of some of its lines, the Chicago,
Terre Haute & Southeastern Railway Company. The
reorganization plan provided for a new lease to be offered
the Terre Haute, which required that the latter scale
down its bonded indebtedness so that the interest thereon,
which was the rental under the lease, would be substantially reduced. The plan did not, however, differentiate
another court. The obligations owed by the New Haven to the
Terminal Company were fixed by a Massachusetts statute, but these
obligations were repudiated by the New Haven's plan of reorganization, which offered the Terminal new terms for the use of its facilities
by the debtor. In considering the argument made by the Terminal's
bondholders that the plan violated the New Haven's obligations under
the state law, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit made this
statement: "The plan enables New Haven to reject what in effect
amounts to a burdensome lease. The plan, however, does not compel
Boston Terminal to furnish the service at the rental offered; if
Boston Terminal does not choose to accept the offer, it can, as a
creditor, file proof of claim against New Haven for any damages
to which it may be entitled. It is argued that Boston Terminal has
no power under its charter to accept the offer. This seems irrelevant
to the problem whether the Commission has power to approve a plan
making the offer. Moreover, the reorganization trustee of Boston
Terminal may be able to obtain authority to accept either from the
bankruptcy court in Massachusetts or through an amendment of the
Boston Terminal Act. The plan could not, and does not attempt to,
amend the charter of the Terminal Company; but it does amend,
as it can, the charter of the New Haven." In re New York, N. H.
& H. R. Co., 147 F. 2d 40,52.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

between the four classes of bonds of the lessor with respect
to the earning power and character of the security of each,
as is required in the reorganization of properties of the
debtor. Certain bondholders accordingly attacked the
plan as unfair, because it did not attempt to preserve the
respective priorities of these bond issues. But we said
(p. 546): "The short answer to that objection is that
the Terre Haute properties have not been treated by the
Commission or the District Court as a part of the properties of the debtor for reorganization purposes. Nor has
any question been raised or argued here as to the power
of the Commission or the District Court so to treat them.
The Commission and the District Court considered the
problem solely as one of rejection or affirmance of a lease."
It is abundantly clear that in the case before us, the
interest of South Western was similarly considered. 5
Other provisions of § 77 lend no support to petitioner's
contentions. Section 77 (b), which makes South Western a creditor in the proceedings, does not, as we have
pointed out, give the bankruptcy court any control over
its internal organization. It is not a creditor which can
15 It may also be noted that the Terre Haute could have been reorganized in the Milwaukee proceedings if insolvent or unable to
meet its debts, since the Milwaukee owned substantially all of the
Terre Haute's stock. See note 13, supra. The lessor's bondholders
were therefore more like holders of the debtor's bonds than are stockholders of an independently owned lessor. This argument was made
before the Commission by an institutional investors group committee, which contended that the assets of Terre Haute should be
treated as assets of the debtor for purposes of reorganization. The
Commission rejected the argument, saying: "We agree with the
group of Terre Haute bondholders that they are not such creditors
of the debtor as would be bound as a class by a confirmed plan of
reorganization which divested them of their existing liens upon the
Terre Haute properties." 239 I. C. C. 485, 535. See Swaine,
A Decade of Railroad Reorganization Under Section 77 of the Federal Bankruptcy Act, 56 Harv. L. Rev. 1193, 1217.

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

Opinion of the Court.

be bound by the plan without its assent, except to the
extent of its claim for damages for breach of the lease and
for amounts due it from the lessee." Section 77 (b) (1)
provides that the plan may alter the rights of creditors,
while § 77 (b) (5) requires that the plan provide adequate
means for its execution, which may include merger or
consolidation of the debtor with another corporation.
This subsection also permits rejection of executory contracts and unexpired leases.
The bankruptcy power unquestionably gives the Commission and court, working within the framework of the
Act, full and complete power not only over the debtor
and its property, but also, as a corollary, over any rights
that may be asserted against it. These rights may be
altered in any way thought necessary to achieve sound
financial and operating conditions for the reorganized
company, subject to the requirements of the Act. The
purchase of formerly leased properties does not involve
rights asserted against the debtor, however." This
Court has said that "The exclusive jurisdiction granted
16 The dual status of a lessor whose lease has been, or will be, rejected and to whom an offer of purchase or modification is made is
explained by Meek, The Problems of the Leased Line, 7 Law and
Contemp. Prob. 509, 516, as follows: "The plan in theory must deal
with the lessor in at least two capacities: as an unsecured creditor
and as owner of the leased line. In the former capacity the lessor
will receive the same treatment as other unsecured creditors. In the
latter, however, the lessor will be treated in accordance with the
value of the line to the lessee." See note 6, supra.
17 The offer of purchase may, as was true in this case, include a
provision requiring the lessor-offeree to renounce the claims it could
otherwise assert against the debtor, including claims for breach of the
lease and for amounts due the lessor under the lease or other agreements between the parties. 261 I. C. C. 515. These factors are
taken into consideration in determining the amount to be offered
under the plan. See 261 I. C. C. at 272 and 295.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

the reorganization court by § 77 (a) is that which bankruptcy courts have customarily possessed." Meyer v.
Fleming, 327 U. S. 161, 164 (1946).1" We conceive the
jurisdiction asserted by the district court over a solvent
lessor not in reorganization to be an extension of these
traditional powers not justified by any provisions of the
Bankruptcy Act.
A serious practical problem would arise if the consequence of rejection of the offer and return of the properties
to South Western would be cessation of railroad service on
the formerly leased lines. Congress has foreseen that
difficulty, however. Under § 77 (c) (6), if the lessor is
unable to operate the leased lines following rejection of
the lease, the duty devolves upon the lessee to continue
to operate the leased lines for the account of the lessor,19
and such operation may continue after completion of the
reorganization of the lessee.2" We need not speculate
upon the eventual disposition of South Western's properties. Until some final disposition is made, however, we
18 Cf. In re Adolf Gobel, Inc., 80 F. 2d 849, involving § 77B proceedings, and Greenbaum v. Lehrenkrauss Corp., 73 F. 2d 285, an
equity receivership.
19 Section 77 (c) (6) provides: "If a lease of a line of railroad is
rejected, and if the lessee, with the approval of the judge, shall
elect no longer to operate the leased line, it shall be the duty of the
lessor at the end of a period to be fixed by the judge to begin the opera-

tion of such line, unless the judge, upon the petition of the lessor, shall
decree after hearing that it would be impracticable and contrary to the
public interest for the lessor to operate the said line, in which event it
shall be the duty of the lessee to continue operation on or for the
account of the lessor until the abandonment of such line is authorized
by the Commission in accordance with the provisions of section 1
of Title 49, as amended."
20 Operation of the Boston & Providence Railroad for its account
is now being carried on by the reorganized New Haven pending completion of reorganization of the Boston & Providence. See In re
New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 169 F. 2d 337.

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

Opinion of the Court.

are assured that service will be maintained on its lines,
and that the debtor will not be prejudiced because of the
duty thrust upon it. Palmer v. Webster & Atlas National
Bank, 312 U. S. 156 (1941).
Third. It is argued that Continental Illinois National
Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S. 648 (1935),
and other cases applying similar principles support the
district court's injunction of the state action and its determination of the issue there involved. The question
specifically before the Court in the Rock Island case was
this: "Under § 77 does the bankruptcy court have authority to enjoin the sale of the collateral here in question
if a sale would so hinder, obstruct and delay the preparation and consummation of a plan of reorganization as
probably to defeat it?" The affirmative answer given by
the Court rested upon the inherent powers of a court of
equity to prevent the defeat or impairment of its jurisdiction, upon § 262 of the old Judicial Code, which authorized United States courts "to issue all writs not
specifically provided for by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions," and
upon § 2 (15) of the Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. § 11 (15),
which gives bankruptcy courts the power to "Make such
orders, issue such process, and enter such judgments, in
addition to those specifically provided for, as may be
necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this
Act." 52 Stat. 843.
Reliance upon these cases is based, however, upon the
fallacy previously adverted to. The action in the Georgia
courts in this case does not embarrass or delay the formulation or promulgation of a plan of reorganization. The
plan has been formulated and approved. It leaves open
to South Western the alternative of selling its properties
to the reorganized debtor or of facing disaffirmance of the
lease and the risks of separate operation of its lines. No

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

suggestion has been made that a final decision of the state
law question will be unreasonably delayed. Under these
circumstances, we do not believe that the Rock Island
decision provides any support for the district court's
action. 2' As we held in Thompson v. Texas Mexican R.
Co., 328 U. S. 134 (1946) at 142: "Forfeiture of leases
by the court in advance of a determination by the Commission of the nature of the plan of reorganization which
is necessary or desirable for the debtor may seriously
interfere with the performance by the Commission of the
functions entrusted to it." See also Smith v. Hoboken
R. Co., 328 U. S. 123 (1946). The same considerations
do not prevail at a later stage of the proceedings, however,
when, pursuant to a plan formulated by the Commission,
the lease is forfeited and an offer of purchase substituted
in lieu thereof. Unless the offer is a sham and the lessor's
discretion illusory, the plan may be effectively consummated whether the offeree accepts or not. The district
court did not merely postpone action which would have
hindered the development of the plan; it took to itself
the decision of a question which the plan left open for
decision elsewhere.
We conclude that, under the narrow facts presented
here, the bankruptcy court erred in enjoining the state
court suit leading to a determination of the requirements
of Georgia law with respect to sale of the entire assets
of South Western. This question was already in litigation in the state court when first raised in the federal court.
Title 28 U. S. C. § 2283 forbids this exercise of power,
since, as we hold, the controversy does not involve property of the debtor within the jurisdiction of the bankCf. In re New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 102 F. 2d 923; Guaranty
Trust Co. v. Henwood, 86 F. 2d 347; Central Hanover Bank v. Callaway, 135 F. 2d 592.
21

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

ruptcy court, and the assertion of jurisdiction by the state
court is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act."
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,
LEDGE concurs, dissenting.

with whom MR.

JUSTICE RUT-

This decision permits control over the plan of reorganization to be taken from the Interstate Commerce
Commission and the District Court contrary to the provisions of § 77 and allows a state court to undo what
those federal agencies have approved.
The plan approved by the Commission and by the
District Court provides for the "consolidation, merger or
purchase" of the properties of South Western in lieu of
continued operation under the lease, "if the leased properties can be acquired on the terms set forth in the Plan."
The terms of the acquisition are set forth in the plan.
If the leased lines are acquired, South Western shall
waive any damages on account of breach of the lease and
in respect of equipment. Securities allocated to South
Western shall not bear interest or dividends for any
period prior to the acquisition. The plan also determines
the amount of the allotment to South Western which
the Commission and the court approved as "fair and
equitable" and "equal the value of the transportation
property."
On February 11, 1947, the Commission submitted the
plan to all creditors, including South Western, for acceptance or rejection on or before midnight March 28, 1947.
On March 13, 1947, the directors of South Western accepted the plan subject to the assent of the holders of
Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226; Ex parte Baldwin, 291 U. S. 610; Mandeville v. Canterbury,318 U. S. 47.
22

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

a majority of its stock. The stockholders met on March
28, 1947, and accepted the plan by a vote of 30,137 to
9,057. Accordingly South Western mailed its ballot approving the plan to the Commission.
The result of the balloting was certified by the Commission to the court. Thereafter the court had a hearing
and confirmed the plan, specifically reserving for later
adjudication the question whether it had power to enjoin
action in a state court which attempted to annul the
acceptance of the plan by South Western. Subsequently
it held a hearing, overruled objections of the minority of
South Western's stockholders and held that the acceptance by South Western was valid under Georgia law. It
accordingly issued the injunction involved in this case.
It seems plain to me that the Commission and the
reorganization court had exclusive jurisdiction, subject to
judicial review, to determine the question of the validity
of the acceptance of the plan tendered by the officers of
South Western. The validity of the acceptance is, of
course, a question of state law. But it has been entrusted
by Congress to these federal agencies.
The plan must first be approved by the Commission
and then certified to the court. § 77 (d) (e). The court,
after hearing, passes on the plan; and if the court approves the plan, it certifies that fact to the Commission.
§ 77 (e). The Commission then submits the plan to
creditors and stockholders (§ 77 (e)), the lessor and its
security holders being included in the definition of creditor. § 77 (b). See Group of Investors v. Milwaukee
R. Co., 318 U. S.523, 549. The Commission must then
determine the result of the balloting and certify to the
judge "the results of such submission." § 77 (e). The
court then "shall confirm" the plan if satisfied (1) that
the requisite percentage of each class of creditors and
stockholders has been obtained and (2) "that such acceptances have not been made or procured by any means

CALLAWAY v. BENTON.
132

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

forbidden by law." § 77 (e). (Italics added.) On confirmation of the plan by the court, the plan and order
of confirmation "shall, subject to the right of judicial
review," be binding upon the debtor and stockholders
and "all creditors secured or unsecured, whether or not
adversely affected by the plan, and whether or not their
claims shall have been filed, and, if filed, whether or not
approved, including creditors who have not, as well as
those who have, accepted it." § 77 (f).
Section 77 (f) also provides that on confirmation of
the plan the debtor or any other corporation organized
to carry out the plan "shall have full power and authority
to, and shall put into effect and carry out the plan and
the orders of the judge relative thereto, under and subject to the supervision and the control of the judge, the
laws of any State or the decision or order of any State
authority to the contrary notwithstanding." (Italics
added.) And § 77 (j), with exceptions not material here,
gives the court power to enjoin or stay the commencement of any suit against the debtor until after final
decree.'
The control of the court over the acceptance of the
plan and over its confirmation is one of the historic instances of the "exclusive jurisdiction" vested in the court
by § 77 (a). The exclusive jurisdiction of the reorganization court is one which heretofore we have zealously
guarded against encroachments by state courts. See
Thompson v. Texas Mexican R. Co., 328 U. S.134. That
exclusive jurisdiction is not restricted to protection of
the court's possession of the property and operation of
the business. Section 77 (e) gives the reorganization
court the sole authority to determine whether the accept' This subsection provides in part: "In addition to the provisions
of section 29 of this title for the staying of pending suits against
the debtor, the judge may enjoin or stay the commencement or
continuation of suits against the debtor until after final decree . ...

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

ances of the plan have been made or procured "by any
means forbidden by law." In this case that plainly
means that the reorganization court alone had the power
to ascertain whether the requisite vote of the directors
and stockholders of South Western had been cast in favor
of the plan. Once it determined that lawful corporate
action had been taken by South Western, then § 77 (f)
bound all of South Western's stockholders, since they are
included in the definition of creditors for the purposes of
the Act. See Group of Investors v. Milwaukee R. Co.,
supra. And then the reorganization court had the express power under § 77 (f) to put the plan into effect"the laws of any State or the decision or order of any
State authority to the contrary notwithstanding."
This is precisely one of those situations where the bankruptcy court, if its exclusive jurisdiction is to be maintained, must have the power to enjoin action in state
courts. It has long been recognized to have that authority in order to protect its decree. See Local Loan Co. v.
Hunt, 292 U. S. 234. And the policy reflected in old
§ 265 of the Judicial Code-now 28 U. S. C. § 2283which frowned on the stay of state proceedings by federal courts, has for years recognized bankruptcy jurisdiction as an exception. See Toucey v. N. Y. Life Ins.
Co., 314 U. S. 118, 132. It was in recognition of the
necessity for that power that Congress wrote subdivision
(j) into § 77.
If a state court can hold invalid acceptances whose
validity has been approved by the Commission and the
District Court, then the federal agencies have lost much
of the exclusive jurisdiction which Congress granted them.
There are myriad questions of state law underlying the
consummation of every plan of reorganization. There
is the question whether the new company is validly organized; whether proxies are executed in pursuance of the
provisions of the state code; whether the charter of a

FISHER v. PACE.
Syllabus.

132

corporation can contain certain kinds of provisions, authorize certain types of securities, etc., etc. If state
courts can intrude with injunctions on such state law
questions, the exclusive command of the federal agencies
over the reorganization process is lost, its efficiency is
undermined, and minorities are given leverages which the
scheme of § 77 explicitly denies.

FISHER v. PACE, SHERIFF.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.

No. 45.

Argued December 9, 1948.-Decided February 7, 1949.

1. In a workmen's compensation proceeding in a Texas state court,
counsel for the claimant, in his argument to the jury, persisted
in referring to matters which, under Texas law and as the judge
twice admonished him, were outside the issues for the jury, and
he was summarily fined $25 for contempt. An altercation between
counsel and the judge followed, during which the fine was increased
to $50, then a 3-day jail sentence was added, and finally a sentence
of $100 fine and 3 days in jail was imposed. The State Supreme
Court upheld the sentence. Held: Upon the record in this case,
counsel was not denied due process of law under the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 156-163.
2. The inherent power of courts to punish summarily for contempts
committed in their presence is essential to preserve their authority
and to prevent the administration of justice from falling into
disrepute; and such summary procedure affords due process of
law. Pp. 159-160.
3. The mildly provocative language of the trial judge did not excuse
counsel's show of contempt for judge and court which the record
in this case manifests. P. 163.
146 Tex. 328, 206 S. W. 2d 1000, affirmed.

In a state court in which he was participating as counsel
in the trial of a workmen's compensation case, petitioner
was summarily convicted and sentenced for a contempt
of court. In a habeas corpus proceeding, the State Supreme Court upheld the conviction. 146 Tex. 328, 206

