OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

336 U. S.

GRIFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

No. 417.

CIRCUIT.

Argued December 15-16, 1948.-Decided April 25, 1949.

1. Petitioner, claiming self-defense, was convicted in the District of
Columbia of murder in the first degree and was sentenced to death.
On a motion for a new trial on the ground of newly discovered
evidence, he relied on evidence that at the time of the killing the
deceased had an open knife in his pocket. The trial court denied
the motion on the ground that, since petitioner did not know that
the deceased was carrying a knife, the evidence was inadmissible.
An appeal was dismissed by the Court of Appeals without opinion.
Held: The cause is remanded to the Court of Appeals with instructions to decide, in the first instance, what rule of evidence should
prevail in the District of Columbia. Pp. 705-718.
2. In the circumstances of this case, it is inappropriate that the
ground of the dismissal of the appeal be left to inference. Pp.
707-708.
3. There is no "federal rule" as to the admissibility of evidence of
uncominunicated threats in a murder case in which self-defense is
claimed; and, even if there were, it would not follow that that rule
must also be the rule for the District of Columbia. Pp. 712-713.
4. Inasmuch as Congress may enact substantive rules of criminal law
exclusively for the District of Columbia, the Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia should have the opportunity to formulate
rules of evidence appropriate for the District, so long as the rules
adopted do not offend statutory or constitutional limitations. Pp.
713-717.
5. The formulation of rules of evidence for the District of Columbia
is a matter of local law to be determined, in the absence of specific
congressional legislation, by the highest appellate court for the
District. Pp. 716-717.
6. This Court should not undertake to decide questions of local law
without the aid of some expression of the views of judges of the
local courts who are familiar with the intricacies and trends of
local law and practice; and only in exceptional cases will this
Court review a determination of such a question by the Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia. P. 718.
Remanded.

GRIFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
704

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner's motion for a new trial on the ground of
newly discovered evidence was denied by the District
Court for the District of Columbia. An appeal was dismissed by the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit without opinion. This
Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 866. Remanded with
instructions,p. 718.
Francis J. Kelly argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were James R. Reynolds and J. Louis
O'Connor.
Charles B. Murray argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Campbell, Robert
S. Erdahl and Philip R. Monahan.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case was brought here under § 1254 (1) of Title 28
of the United States Code to review the dismissal by
the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia of
an appeal from the denial of a motion for a new trial
on the ground of evidence discovered after the petitioner
had been convicted of murder in the first degree. 335
U. S. 866. The decisive issue is the admissibility of that
evidence. The question arises not through its exclusion
at trial but on a motion for a new trial in order to be
able to introduce it as newly discovered.
The petitioner, Baxter Griffin, was convicted of the
murder of Lee Hunter. The killing was the outcome
of a quarrel. Admitting that he shot Hunter, Griffin
claimed that he did so in self-defense. His story was that
the deceased and he were playing a card game called
blackjack, that Hunter demanded a larger share of the
pot than was his right, and that upon his refusal to pay,

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

Hunter "jumped up and started around the table, with
his hand in his pocket, and told me he would kick my
teeth out of my head." On cross-examination Griffin
added that Hunter threatened to kill him. Accordingly,
so his story continued, Griffin shot Hunter as Hunter
advanced toward him with his hand in his pocket. This
version of the occurrence was contradicted by five Government witnesses. Each testified that petitioner started
the argument, and that it had nothing to do with the
card game which, according to their account, was over
before the fracas began. According to them, this is
what happened: Griffin made some remark to Hunter
about taking Hunter's wife and baby around to Griffin's
house; Hunter replied that he would kick petitioner's
teeth down his throat; Griffin thereupon left the house
and returned within ten minutes with a gun, and on his
return shot Hunter, who had made no move from the
spot where he was standing. Griffin admitted that he
saw nothing in Hunter's hand at the time he shot Hunter.
On the evidence, as summarized, the jury on March 28,
1947, found Griffin guilty of murder in the first degree; on
April 18, 1947, he was sentenced to death; on December
8, 1947, the conviction was affirmed, 83 U. S. App. D. C.
20, 164 F. 2d 903; on March 15, 1948, this Court denied
certiorari, 333 U. S. 857.
On May 7, 1948, a little more than a month before the
day set for execution, Griffin began the present proceedings for a new trial. It was based on affidavits of his then
counsel who averred that it had recently come to his
knowledge that the attendant at the morgue had found an
opened penknife in the trousers' pocket of the deceased
and that the prosecutor knew of this at the time of the
trial but failed to introduce this circumstance in evidence
or make it available to the defense. The affidavits further
alleged that there was evidence that playing cards were
on the floor immediately after the shooting, a fact which

GRIFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
704

Opinion of the Court.

would, had it been known to the defense, have tended to
corroborate Griffin's statement that the card game was in
progress at the time of the shooting. An extended hearing was had on the motion for a new trial. The allegation
regarding scattered playing cards on the floor at the time
of the fatal shooting was adequately met, and this ground
for a new trial need not detain us.
As to Griffin's discovery, after his conviction was affirmed, of the undisclosed knife in the pocket of the
deceased, the Government conceded that it knew of this
circumstance at the time of the trial and despite that
knowledge neither introduced the fact in evidence nor felt
any duty to make it known to the defense. The Government justified this on the ground that in its view the circumstance of the knife was inadmissible, since knowledge
of its presence in the pocket of the deceased had not been
communicated to Griffin either by sight or otherwise.
The District Judge took this view of the law and denied
the motion for a new trial. In an unreported opinion, he
stated, "The question whether a person is justified in attacking an assailant in self-defense must be determined by
the facts which were presented to the person who pleads
self-defense. He [Griffin] did not know, it appears, that
the deceased had an open knife in his pocket, and therefore its existence is irrelevant." An appeal having been
taken, the Government moved to dismiss the appeal on
the ground that "the issues raised by appellant's motion
for a new trial were fully explored in the court below and
that the disposition made of them by the trial court was
manifestly correct." The appeal was dismissed by a
unanimous Court of Appeals, presided over by a judge
than whom no one is more alert in protecting the rights
of the accused.
Unfortunately, the Court of Appeals evidently thought
that the ground for dismissing the appeal was too clear
to require explication. It dismissed the appeal without

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

an expression of views regarding the admissibility of the
evidence on which the claim for a new trial rests. It
may well have done so on the ground that in the District
evidence of this nature is inadmissible. That this was
the reason for the dismissal is the view of some members
of this Court. The opinion of the Court of Appeals on a
later appeal from the denial of a petition for habeas
corpus by Griffin lends support to such an interpretation
of the summary dismissal of the appeal now under review.
See Griffin v. Clemmer, 83 U. S. App. D. C. 351, 169 F.
2d 961.1 But solicitude for life bars reliance on such an
inference, especially since the issue on habeas corpus is
quite different from that on appeal from a denial of a
motion for a new trial. It seems to us more appropriate
for the Court of Appeals to address itself directly to the
issue of admissibility. This is so in order to rule out the
inference that the Court of Appeals may, in applying
United States v. Johnson, 327 U. S. 106, have deemed the
denial of a motion for a new trial on the basis of newly
discovered evidence solely a matter for the trial court's
discretion.
Were the Court of Appeals to declare that the controverted evidence was admissible according to the law
I In Griffin v. Clemmer, 83 U. S. App. D. C. 351, 169 F. 2d 961,
the Court of Appeals had before it an appeal from the denial of a
petition for a writ of habeas corpus alleging that Griffin's detention
was illegal because the conviction was procured by unfair conduct on
the part of the prosecutor. This was filed by Griffin after the Court
of Appeals had dismissed the appeal from the denial of the motion for
a new trial but before this Court granted this petition for certiorari.
The claim of unfairness was based on the failure to disclose the finding
of the penknife on Hunter. In effect this was a claim of lack of
jurisdiction in the court, according to the doctrine of Johnson v.
Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458. The Court of Appeals deemed the evidence
to be irrelevant to that proceeding. It is too precarious to treat this
as a holding on the admissibility of the evidence.

GRIFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
704

Opinion of the Court.

prevailing in the District, it would have to consider further whether it would not be too dogmatic, on the basis
of mere speculation, for any court to conclude that the
jury would not have attached significance to the evidence
favorable to the defendant had the evidence been before
it. If the Court of Appeals had decided that the disputed
evidence was not admissible in the District of Columbia
on a claim of self-defense and on that ground had sustained the denial of the motion for a new trial, there
would have been an end of the matter. It is not to be
assumed that this Court would have granted a petition
for certiorari to review the ruling since the determination
would have been a matter of local law as are the rules
of evidence prevailing in the State courts.
We are told, however, that a ruling which did not
permit the introduction of "uncommunicated threats"
would constitute "egregious error" to be corrected by this
Court. Fisherv. United States, 328 U. S. 463, 476. Wigmore is vouched as authority that uncommunicated
threats are admissible in "virtually all Courts." But Wigmore immediately follows the words quoted with a series
of qualifications and limitations which prove that there
are few questions of admissibility in trials for murder
that have occasioned a greater contrariety of views. See
1 Wigmore, Evidence § 111 (3d ed., 1940).2 By way of
2

It is pertinent to quote at length Wigmore's statements on this

subject:
"This evidence [uncommunicated threats] is now conceded to be
admissible, by virtually all Courts. But the following discriminations
must be noted:
"(3) There is much opportunity for abuse of this sort of evidence.
Not only may it be manufactured; but, even when genuine, it may be
employed improperly to help the defendant by way of justification,in certain communities at least, where the Courts have been compelled
repeatedly to make clear the law that a threat to shoot another is no

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

example, most jurisdictions hold that evidence of uncommunicated threats is inadmissible where there is clear
proof that the defendant took the initiative, or where
there is no evidence that the deceased was the aggressor
other than the proffered uncommunicated threats. Were
this the rule in the District, the dismissal of the appeal
may well have been rested on it, since there was weighty
justification for the latter to kill on sight.

For these reasons various

limitations have been attempted:
"(a) The evidence of threat is inadmissible where there is clear evidence that the defendant was the aggressor. Most jurisdictions adopt
this rule, and none seem to negative it.
"(b) Furthermore, the threat is only admissible (as most Courts
provide) where there is some other evidence of an aggression by the
deceased. This is usually expressed by saying that there must have
been some 'demonstration of hostility,' or, more shortly, some 'overt
act,' by the deceased. It is difficult to say whether this limitation
originated in the "res gestw" notion (infra) or in a rule of criminal
law that an overt act is a necessary element of the justification of

self-defence, or merely in a general policy of preventing the abuse
of this evidence. At any rate, it seems a satisfactory limitation, provided the multiplication of quibbles as to 'overt acts' is avoided by
leaving the whole matter in the hands of the trial judge; for it prevents the defendant from trying to use the threats as a mere pretext
for justifying the killing of one who was making no actual attempt
to injure him.
"(c) Another condition, sometimes suggested, but inconsistent with
and more stringent than the preceding one, is that the threat should
be received only when there is no other direct evidence as to who was
the aggressor, i. e. when there were no eye-witnesses. Perhaps in practice a combination of (b) and (c) would be the best; i. e. to admit the
evidence when by eye-witnesses there was some other evidence of the
deceased's aggression, or when there were no eye-witnesses to the affair.
"(4) Another and additional use, independent of the preceding, receives the uncommunicated threat in 'confirmation' or 'corroboration' of communicated threats. This is usually coupled with one of
the preceding limitations as an alternative condition of admission.
"(5) The doctrine of "res gesto" is sometimes invoked as the ground
of receiving the evidence; and the same notion underlies the occa-

GRIFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
704

Opinion of the Court.

proof that the petitioner was the aggressor. Indeed, for
all we know the Court of Appeals might have had in mind
a rule concerning uncommunicated threats that would
admit them and yet guard against the danger of fabrication by placing upon the trial judge the responsibility of
excluding such alleged threats against the defendant in
the absence of proof satisfactory to him of some hostile
manifestation by the deceased relevant to the killing. At
least one State has some such rule. State v. Carter, 197
sional suggestion that the threats 'characterize' the deceased's conduct. This employment of "res gestae" as a veil for obscurity of
thought is elsewhere examined (post, § 1795); and it is enough here
to say that it has no possible application to this kind of evidence,
and cannot be made to fit its rules; the sooner such phrases are
abandoned, the better for clearness of legal thought.
"(6) In some jurisdictions it is impossible to ascertain the exact
rule. Previous precedents are ignored, inconsistent tests laid down in
succeeding rulings, decisions in other jurisdictions are cited to the
exclusion of local precedents; and the oftener the matter comes up
for a ruling, the more it is obscured.
" (7) The prosecution may of course rebut the evidence of threats
by counter-testimony of the deceased's peaceful plans. It would seem
also that, whenever the deceased's aggression is in issue, the prosecution could begin with its evidence of peaceful plans. The prosecution may also, on the principle of § 63, ante, rebut by evidence of
the deceased's peaceful character.
"(8) There may be sundry other cases in which the threats of a
deceased person would be relevant apart from the present doctrines.
" (9) The threats of a third person may also be admitted, where it
is desired to show that he, and not the accused, was the aggressor.
" (10) In other issues in which the aggression of the plaintiff or
prosecuting witness is material, his threats are admissible on the
foregoing principles.
" (11) Other conduct of the deceased, not amounting to threats, but
indicating a motive to attack (on the principle of § 390, post) may be
admitted, by the logic of the prescnt rule, without showing prior
communication to the defendant." 1 Wigmore, Evidence, § 111 (3d
ed., 1940).

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

La. 155, 158, 1 So. 2d 62, 63. This is not to reject as
unreasonable a rule, followed by some courts, that would
let the evidence in, even where all other witnesses oppose
a defendant's version of the killing.
One thing is clear. There is no "federal rule" on this
subject. The decision in Wiggins v. Utah, 93 U. S. 465,
does not purport to lay down a general rule, nor does
it even formulate the evidentiary problem now in controversy. In that case, in light of the fact that there
was no other identification of the aggressor, proof was
offered that the deceased had exhibited a pistol a few
minutes before the shooting and had said, though out
of the hearing of the accused, that "he would kill defendant before he went to bed that night," and this Court
naturally held that this evidence should have been admitted. It did so because "it would have tended strongly
to show where that first shot came from, and how that
pistol, with one chamber emptied, came to be found on
the ground." Wiggins v. Utah, supra at 470.
But even assuming that the "federal rule" is that the
evidence described in the motion for a new trial would be
admissible, it does not follow that it must also be the rule
for the District of Columbia. This Court, in its decisions,
and Congress, in its enactment of statutes, have often
recognized the appropriateness of one rule for the District
and another for other jurisdictions so far as they are
subject to federal law. Thus, the "federal rule" in firstdegree murder cases is that, unless the jury by unanimous vote agrees that the penalty should be death,
the court must fix the sentence at imprisonment for
life. 35 Stat. 1151, 1152, 18 U. S. C. § 567, now 18
U. S. C. § 1111 (1948), Andres v. United States, 333
U. S. 740. But a defendant convicted of first-degree
murder in the District cannot look to the jury to soften
the penalty; he must be given the death sentence. 31

GRIFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
704

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 1321, 43 Stat. 799, D. C. Code § 22-2404, Johnson
v. United States, 225 U. S.405. Furthermore, the Court's
decision in Fisher v. United States, 328 U. S.463, makes
clear that when we refused to reverse the Court of Appeals for the District we were not establishing any
"federal rule" in interpreting the murder statutes which
apply in places other than the District of Columbia over
which Congress has jurisdiction. In fact, this Court has
been at pains to point out that "Congress . . .recognized
the expediency of separate provisions" pertaining to
criminal justice applicable exclusively to the District of
Columbia in contradistinction to the Criminal Code governing offenses amenable to federal jurisdiction elsewhere.
Johnson v. United States, 225 U. S.405, 418.
Many statutes reflect this distinctive position of the
District in matters of criminal law. Compare 35 Stat.
1149, 18 U. S. C. § 516 ("federal" adultery statute), now
repealed, 18 U. S. C. p. 2415 (1948), with 31 Stat. 1332,
D. C. Code § 22-301 (District adultery statute); compare
35 Stat. 1143, 18 U. S. C. §§ 2031, 2032 (1948) ("federal"
rape statute) with 31 Stat. 1322, 41 Stat. 567, 43 Stat. 798,
D. C. Code § 22-2801 (District rape statute); compare 35
Stat. 1144, 18 U. S. C. § 2111 (1948) ("federal" robbery
statute) with 31 Stat. 1322, D. C. Code § 22-2901 (District robbery statute); compare 35 Stat. 1144, 18 U. S. C.
§ 466 ("federal" larceny statute), now repealed, 18 U. S. C.
p. 2415 (1948), ' with 31 Stat. 1324, D. C. Code § 22-2201
(District larceny statute). In fact, it requires two volumes to contain "all the general and permanent laws
relating to or in force in the District of Columbia, on
January 3, 1941, except such laws as are of application
in the District of Columbia by reason of being laws of the
3 The repeal of the specific provisions on adultery and larceny
does not detract from their illustrative significance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

United States general and permanent in their nature."
See Preface to District of Columbia Code (1940 ed.).
If Congress can enact substantive rules of criminal law
exclusively for the District of Columbia,4 the Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia ought not to be
denied opportunity to formulate rules of evidence appropriate for the District, so long as the rules chosen do not
offend statutory or constitutional limitations.
The position of spouses as witnesses strikingly illustrates that the District stands apart from the rule of
evidence prevailing generally in the federal courts. The
federal courts have held that one spouse cannot testify
against the other unless the defendant spouse waives the
privilege. Miles v. United States, 103 U. S. 304; Bassett
v. United States, 137 U. S. 496; cf. United States v.
Mitchell, 137 F. 2d 1006, 1008 (C. A. 2d Cir.). Since this
Court in the Funk case left open the question whether
this rule should be changed, Funk v. United States, 290
4 ". . . There
is certainly nothing anomalous in punishing the
crime of murder differently in different jurisdictions. It is but the
application of legislation to conditions. But if it be anomalous,
very little argument can be drawn from it to solve the questions in
controversy. The difference existed for a number of years between
the District and other places under national jurisdiction, for, as we
have seen, the qualified verdict has not existed in the District since
the enactment of the District Code, and did not exist when the
Criminal Code was enacted. ...
"Congress certainly in enacting the District Code, recognized the
expediency of separate provisions for the District of Columbia. It
was said at the bar and not denied that the District Code
was not only the work of the lawyers of the District, having in mind
the needs of the District, but of its citizens as well, expressed through
various organizations and bodies of them. In yielding to the recommendations Congress made no new precedent. It had given local
control to the Territories, and it enacted a separate code for Alaska."
Johnson v. United States, 225 U. S. 405, 417-418.

GRIFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
704

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 371, 373, it presumably is still the "federal rule" for
the lower courts. In the District, however, the rule has
long been otherwise. Halback v. Hill, 49 App. D. C. 127,
261 F. 1007; Buford v. Buford, 81 U. S. App. D. C. 169,
170, 156 F. 2d 567, 568; cf. Dobbins v. United States, 81
U. S. App. D. C. 218, 157 F. 2d 257; 31 Stat. 1358, D. C.
Code § 14-306. Another example is afforded by the fact
that the statute just cited also provided that one spouse
could testify in favor of the other in cases in the District
when the "federal rule" was still to the contrary. Compare Jin Fuey Moy v. United States, 254 U. S. 189;
Hendrix v. United States, 219 U. S. 79, both overruled in
Funk v. United States, supra.
The problem of the admissibility of the evidence set
forth in the motion for a new trial is serious and its
wise solution full of difficulty. The problem was apparently not explored below, and at the bar of this Court
counsel did not give it the consideration appropriate for
determination of a federal issue of general importance.
It was not even argued in their briefs. Under such
circumstances it is not for us to announce a rule for the
District of Columbia. Nothing that has been said concerning the various possible choices is intended as an
expression of preference among the competing rules about
the admissibility of uncommunicated threats, nor as the
slightest restriction upon the freedom of the Court of
Appeals to make its own choice. We purposely withhold any expression of opinion on the merits of any of
the permissible views on admissibility of this evidence.
Certainly nothing in our decisions forecloses the Court
of Appeals from selecting any one in the range of choices
open to it, each one having some rational basis. That
court has heretofore been recognized as the appellate
tribunal for determining the local rules of evidence; it
also is a court that has active experience with the just

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

and practical considerations governing trials for murder,
plainly outside the preoccupation of this Court.
It is precisely for such reasons that for a decade the
Court has declined to review all convictions for firstdegree murder in the District of Columbia, with a single
exception, and in every one of these cases some local
rule of evidence was at least in part involved. The
Appendix, infra, p. 719, gives a summary of the legal issues involved in the fourteen cases in which we denied a
petition for certiorari. This course of disposition manifests uniformity of respect by this Court for District rulings on evidence.' Reference to this course of disposition
of attempts to secure review here for convictions of murder in the District in no wise disregards our repeated
admonition that denial of a petition for certiorari imports
nothing as to the merits of a lower court decision. These
denials do not remotely imply approval of the various
rulings on evidence made in these cases by the Court
5To compare this impressive course of disposition with the fact
that we have granted little over 5% of petitions in forma pauperis
on behalf of convicts is to treat statistics as though they were merely
figures without meaning. The mass of these in forma pauperis
petitions, usually drawn by laymen, are pathetically trivial and
frivolous endeavors by those incarcerated to procure their freedom
after all other hope has faded. To draw inferences from this 5%
figure is to treat as fungible denials of certiorari because no federal
question is raised, denials because the state remedies were not exhausted, and denials for other unrelated jurisdictional reasons. The
fourteen petitions for certiorari for the District of Columbia were
of a wholly different nature. They were all cases in which the
petitioner was represented by counsel and in which the Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia had considered seriously errors
claimed to have occurred in the course of the trial-they were all
adjudications on the merits. Our consistent denials under these
circumstances are mute evidence, not of approval or disapproval,
but of deference to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
on rules of evidence prevailing in the District.

GRIFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
704

Opinion of the Court.

of Appeals for the District. What they do establish is
that it has become settled practice for this Court to recognize that the formulation of rules of evidence for the
District of Columbia is a matter purely of local law to
be determined-in the absence of specific Congressional
legislation-by the highest appellate court for the
District.
Previous to this case, there was, as has been noted, a
single exception to this Court's consistent refusal, for the
past decade, to bring here for review a conviction for
murder in the District.6 The disposition of the exception
powerfully underlines the significance of the necessity
for the Court of Appeals to pass initially on this issue.
The conviction in that case was affirmed essentially
on the principle that the law of evidence and procedure
governing criminal trials in the District of Columbia is
in the keeping of the Court of Appeals for the District
and is not to be exercised by this Court. "The administration of criminal law in matters not affected by
constitutional limitations or a general federal law is
a matter peculiarly of local concern. . . . Matters relatsituation in England regarding appeals in criminal cases is not
without illumination on the importance of abstention by this Court
in criminal cases already decided by two courts. Between the establishment of the Court of Criminal Appeal by the Criminal Appeal
Act of 1907 and the end of 1947, there have been 585 appeals in
murder cases to that Court. In the same period there have been
only four appeals from that Court to the House of Lords. Such
appeals can only be taken if "the Director of Public Prosecutions or
the prosecutor or defendant obtains the certificate of the Attorney
General that the decision of the Court of Criminal Appeal involves a
point of law of exceptional public importance, and that it is desirable
in the public interest that a further appeal should be brought." The
Criminal Appeal Act, 1907, 7 Edw. VII, c. 23.
We are indebted for the above figures to the kindness of the
Attorney General of England, the Rt. Hon. Sir Hartley Shawcross.
6 The

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

ing to law enforcement in the District are entrusted to
the courts of the District. Our policy is not to interfere with the local rules of law which they fashion, save
in exceptional situations where egregious error has been
committed." Such were the views which determined
decision in Fisher v. United States, 328 U. S. 463, 476.
While the Fisher case evoked dissent, it was a decision
rendered after the Court of Appeals had fully declared its
views of the law, and none of the considerations that
moved the dissenters in that case is even remotely present
in the case now before us.
We must therefore remand the case to the Court of
Appeals with instructions to decide, in the first instance,
what rule should prevail in the District of Columbia.
To do otherwise would constitute an unwarranted departure from a wise rule of practice in our consideration of
cases coming here from the Court of Appeals of the District. "There are cogent reasons why this Court should
not undertake to decide questions of local law without
the aid of some expression of the views of judges of the
local courts who are familiar with the intricacies and
trends of local law and practice. We do not ordinarily
decide such questions without that aid where they may
conveniently be decided in the first instance by the court
whose special function it is to resolve questions of the
local law of the jurisdiction over which it presides. Huddleston v. Dwyer, 322 U. S. 232, 237, and cases cited.
Only in exceptional cases will this Court review a determination of such a question by the Court of Appeals for
the District." Busby v. Electric Utilities Employees
Union, 323 U. S. 72, 74-75.
Remanded.

[For dissenting opinion of MR.
post, p. 721.]

JUSTICE MURPHY,

see

00

t)--

I

t

t-

e~

--

0

-

0

0

w

u)

wo

0*0

I

I

xJ
2
0

0.

0

C

0Q
o

In)

U)E

5-

.-

o
C)

0

C)

-1

o

mOt-

0

r

V

C91

0
mO

00

00
C11
cOD

mO
mO

mO
cc

co
mO

C
COl

O
ccCO
CO)
mO

m

m

c

't

LO

mO

Cv 005

t'0 "0
mOC

mO

cd
C

C.
I

a)I

0

0

adZ-

I

I

II

II

In

0

0

0~~

W

0

0

m

0
-

0

Q

0

rn

0

0

0

0

0

IS

0

0

000

Ij

InII

Z
0

F.0)

T

c

,3

0l
0

v)

00C

C6c

6.0CI

C

bCi

6C

i

C

C
0

6

6

6

6

0

*

'0

7.Z
0,--

6fi823978 0-49

GRIFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
704

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

dissenting.
Baxter Griffin has been sentenced to die for the murder
of Lee Hunter. His justification for the killing was selfdefense. He has found that Hunter had an open knife
in his pocket when he was shot. He seeks a new trial on
the basis of that newly-discovered evidence. The first
question is whether that evidence would be admissible at
a new trial.
It is clear to me that it is admissible. Uncommunicated threats and designs on the defendant cannot show
his motive in killing, but they may demonstrate that
a design on the defendant did in fact exist. This is the
rule in "virtually all Courts." 1 Wigmore, Evidence (3d
ed., 1940), § 111, p. 547. It is certainly the federal rule.
Wiggins v. Utah, 93 U. S. 465; Trapp v. New Mexico, 225
F. 968. And it is a thoroughly desirable rule. A defendant should be entitled to present the jury with evidence lending credence to his theory of the case. Griffin's
case is a good example of the policy behind the rule:
for the open knife is the only supporting evidence of
his self-defense testimony.
There can be little question that the open knife is an
element in the proof of a design on the defendant, and
is admissible under the rule stated above. But some
courts have made exceptions to this rule, three of which
might be considered relevant in this case. Wigmore,
supra, § 111 (3). The exceptions have a central foundation: distrust of the jury's ability to evaluate this kind
of evidence. Many rules of exclusion are bottomed on
this distrust, of course. But it is clearly misplaced when
directed at the jury's capability in weighing the value
of uncommunicated threats in a murder trial. The evidence is simple; it is not calculated to inflame; it is far
more difficult to fabricate than are communicated threats;
the prosecution can easily question its importance; and
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

823978 0-49-50

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

it provides solid support for a defendant's self-defense
theory. While in Griffin's case the evidence is stronger
for the prosecution than it was in Wiggins', supra, that
difference is not a distinction. The very plea of selfdefense raises doubt on that question. Defendant's testimony, supporting his plea, raises further doubt.
It is clear that this evidence might change the jury's
verdict. To make admissibility depend upon mechanical
and often illogical variations in the size of the doubt in
a judge's mind is an invasion of the jury's function. "It
is pertinent here to remark, that both the effect of [the
witnesses'] testimony and [their] credibility were to be
weighed by the jury." Wiggins v. Utah, supra, at 469.
The Court makes little attempt to justify the exclusion of this evidence. Instead, it cites Fisher v. United
States, 328 U. S. 463. The Fisher case declined to upset
an evidence rule that had "long been the law of the District of Columbia": that "mental deficiency which does
not show legal irresponsibility" is not "a relevant factor
in determining whether an accused is guilty of murder
in the first or second degree." The Court stated the
general rule that "matters relating to law enforcement in
the District are entrusted to the courts of the District"
in a case in which a reversal would have been a "radical
departure from common law concepts" and thus "more
properly a subject for the exercise of legislative power or
at least for the discretion of the courts of the District."
328 U. S. at 471, 473, 476.
In Fisher, the Court considered the judiciary's caseby-case method ill suited for the sweeping changes which
were and are necessary in the law of insanity. It recognized that an indirect attack on the problem, by admitting evidence of one's past life as relevant in premeditation, might lead to the trial of one's whole life rather
than of the specific offense charged.

GRIFFIN v. UNITED STATES.
704

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

Despite the radical nature of the change, three members of this Court thought that the judiciary should make
an attempt to correct the injustice of the common-law
rules. Those arguments were rejected. But they were
rejected only upon the limited basis to which I have
referred.
Today the Court extends the Fisher rule. It calls
Fisher a holding that no District of Columbia rules of
evidence are reviewable in this Court. The Fisher case
is no authority for such a proposition. There is no warrant for it in statute. And our denial of thirteen petitions for certiorari in death cases in the District in the
last ten years cannot establish such a proposition. In
the last ten complete Terms of Court, only 5.1% of all
petitions for certiorari in forma pauperis have been
granted. And the percentage of petitions for certiorari,
other than in forma pauperis, granted in the same period
has fluctuated between 14.9 and 22.7.1 When we deny
nineteen out of twenty petitions in forma pauperis, and
four out of five of the other petitions, the denial of petitions in thirteen capital cases in ten years reflects no
greater policy in those cases than it does in any other
class of cases. This is particularly true when the sample-fifteen cases-is so small compared to the number
of cases we are asked to review, and when the sample
considers only murder cases. "Nothing is so fallacious
as facts, except figures." For figures which do not reveal the peculiar facts of each case cannot reflect a policy
of any kind.
Self-limitation of our appellate powers may be a worthy
thing, but it is not attractive to me when the behest of
Congress is otherwise. Congress has given this Court
1 Annual Report of the Director of the Administrative Office of
the United States Courts 1948, Table A 1.

OCTOBER- TERM, 1948.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

the ultimate power to review District of Columbia trials.
No matter how the decision is phrased, the Court's power
in the premises is such that it is responsible for the evidence rule it asks the Court of Appeals to expound.
There is no "radical departure from common law" rules
in Griffin's case, as there was in Fisher's. We should
declare the evidence admissible.
If the evidence is admissible, a motion for a new trial
should be granted. A contrary determination would be
an abuse of discretion,2 for there is manifestly a reasonable possibility ' that the jury would lessen the verdict of
first-degree murder.
JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join in this opinion.
THE CHIEF

and MR.

2 See United States v. Johnson, 327 U. S. 106.
3 The Government concedes that the "reasonable possibility" standard is proper, at least in a capital case. Compare Wagner v. United
States, 118 F. 2d 801; Evans v. United States, 122 F. 2d 461; Weiss
v. United States, 122 F. 2d 675; Berry v. Georgia, 10 Ga. 511.

