KOVACS v. COOPER.
53

Syllabus.

I think a comparison of the State Supreme Court's
opinion, - Utah - , 187 P. 2d 188, with the opinion of
this Court will fairly raise, in the minds of courts below
and of the profession, the question I leave to their perspicacity to answer: In which proposition did the Supreme Court of Utah really err?

KOVACS v. COOPER, JUDGE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 9.

Submitted October 11, 1948.-Decided January 31, 1949.

An ordinance of Trenton, New Jersey, forbids the use or operation
on the public streets of a "sound truck" or of any instrument
which emits "loud and raucous noises" and is attached to a vehicle
on the public streets. Held: As applied to the defendant in this
case, it does not infringe the right of free speech in violation of
the First Amendment, made applicable to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 78-79, 89.
135 N. J. L. 584, 52 A. 2d 806, affirmed.

Appellant was convicted in Police Court for violation
of an ordinance of Trenton, New Jersey. The New Jersey
Supreme Court upheld the conviction, 135 N. J. L. 64,
50 A. 2d 451, and the Court of Errors and Appeals
affirmed by an equally divided court. 135 N. J. L. 584,
52 A. 2d 806. On appeal to this Court, affirmed, p. 89.
George Pellettieri submitted on brief for appellant.
Louis Josephson submitted on brief for appellee.
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by
Osmond K. Fraenkel and Samuel Rothbard for the American Civil Liberties Union; and Lee Pressman,FrankDonner, M. H. Goldstein, Isadore Katz, Irving J. Levy, David
Rein and Benjamin C. Sigal for the Congress of Industrial
Organizations et al.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

336 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE REED announced the judgment of the
Court and an opinion in which THE CHIEF JUSTICE and
MR. JUSTICE BURTON join.
This appeal involves the validity of a provision of Ordinance No. 430 of the City of Trenton, New Jersey. It
reads as follows:
"4. That it shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation, either as principal, agent or employee, to play, use or operate for advertising purposes, or for any other purpose whatsoever, on or
upon the public streets, alleys or thoroughfares in
the City of Trenton, any device known as a sound
truck, loud speaker or sound amplifier, or radio or
phonograph with a loud speaker or sound amplifier,
or any other instrument known as a calliope or any
instrument of any kind or character which emits
therefrom loud and raucous noises and is attached to
and upon any vehicle operated or standing upon said
streets or public places aforementioned."
The appellant was found guilty of violating this ordinance by the appellee, a police judge of the City of
Trenton. His conviction was upheld by the New Jersey
Supreme Court, Kovacs v. Cooper, 135 N. J. L. 64, 50
A. 2d 451, and the judgment was affirmed without a
majority opinion by the New Jersey Court of Errors and
Appeals in an equally divided court. The dissents are
printed. 135 N. J. L. 584, 52 A. 2d 806.
We took jurisdiction' to consider the challenge made
to the constitutionality of the section on its face and
as applied on the ground that § 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the United States Constitution was violated because the section and the conviction are in con-

'See Judicial Code § 237 (a), 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a), now 28 U. S. C.
§ 1257 (2); Lovell v. City of Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; New Orleans
Water Works Co. v. New Orleans, 164 U. S. 471.

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

Opinion of

REED,

J.

travention of rights of freedom of speech, freedom of
assemblage and freedom to communicate information
and opinions to others. The ordinance is also challenged as violative of the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment on the ground that it is go
obscure, vague, and indefinite as to be impossible of
reasonably accurate interpretation. No question was
raised as to the sufficiency of the complaint.
At the trial in the Trenton police court, a city patrolman testified that while on his post he heard a sound
truck broadcasting music. Upon going in the direction
of said sound, he located the truck on a public street near
the municipal building. As he approached the truck, the
music stopped and he heard a man's voice broadcasting
from the truck. The appellant admitted that he operated
the mechanism for the music and spoke into the amplifier.
The record from the police court does not show the purpose of the broadcasting but the opinion in the Supreme
Court suggests that the appellant was using the sound
apparatus to comment on a labor dispute then in progress
in Trenton.
The contention that the section is so vague, obscure
and indefinite as to be unenforceable merits only a passing
reference. This objection centers around the use of the
words "loud and raucous." While these are abstract
words, they have through daily use acquired a content
that conveys to any interested person a sufficiently accurate concept of what is forbidden. Last term, after thorough consideration of the problem of vagueness in legislation affecting liberty of speech, this Court invalidated
a conviction under a New York statute construed and
applied to punish the distribution of magazines "principally made up of criminal news or stories of deeds of
bloodshed or lust, so massed as to become vehicles for
inciting violent and depraved crimes against the person."
Winters v. New York, 333 U. S. 507, 518. As thus con823978 O-49-----10

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

REED,

J.-

336 U. S.

strued we said that the statute was so vague that an
honest distributor of tales of war horrors could not know
whether he was violating the statute. P. 520. But in
the Winters case we pointed out that prosecutions might
be brought under statutes punishing the distribution of
"obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, indecent or disgusting"
magazines. P. 511. We said, p. 518:
"The impossibility of defining the precise line between permissible uncertainty in statutes caused by
describing crimes by words well understood through
long use in the criminal law--obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, indecent or disgusting-and the unconstitutional vagueness that leaves a person uncertain as to the kind of prohibited conduct-massing
stories to incite crime-has resulted in three arguments of this case in this Court."
We used the words quoted above from page 511 as examples of permissible standards of statutes for criminal
prosecution. P. 520. There we said:
"To say that a state may not punish by such a
vague statute carries no implication that it may not
punish circulation of objectionable printed matter,
assuming that it is not protected by the principles
of the First Amendment, by the use of apt words
to describe the prohibited publications. . .
Neither the states nor Congress are prevented by the
requirement of specificity from carrying out their
duty of eliminating evils to which, in their judgment,
such publications give rise."
We think the words of § 4 of this Trenton ordinance
comply with the requirements of definiteness and clarity,
set out above.
The scope of the protection afforded by the Fourteenth
Amendment, for the right of a citizen to play music and
express his views on matters which he considers to be

KOVACS v. COOPER.
Opinion of

77

REED, J.

of interest to himself and others on a public street through
sound amplification devices mounted on vehicles, must
be considered. Freedom of speech, freedom of assembly
and freedom to communicate information and opinion
to others are all comprehended on this appeal in the
claimed right of free speech. They will be so treated
in this opinion.
The use of sound trucks and other peripatetic or stationary broadcasting devices for advertising, for religious
exercises and for discussion of issues or controversies
has brought forth numerous municipal ordinances. The
avowed and obvious purpose of these ordinances is to
prohibit or minimize such sounds on or near the streets
since some citizens find the noise objectionable and to
some degree an interference with the business or social
activities in which they are engaged or the quiet that
they would like to enjoy.2 A satisfactory adjustment of
the conflicting interests is difficult as those who desire
to broadcast can hardly acquiesce in a requirement to
modulate their sounds to a pitch that would not rise
above other street noises nor would they deem a restriction to sparsely used localities or to hours after work
and before sleep-say 6 to 9 p. m.-sufficient for the
exercise of their claimed privilege. Municipalities are
seeking actively a solution. National Institute of Municipal Law Officers, Report No. 123, 1948. Unrestrained
use throughout a municipality of all sound amplifying devices would be intolerable. Absolute prohibition within
2

Ordinances regulating or prohibiting sound devices were upheld

in People v. Phillips, 147 N. Y. Misc. 11,263 N. Y. Supp. 158; Maupin
v. City of Louisville, 284 Ky. 195, 144 S. W. 2d 237; Hamilton v. City
of Montrose, 109 Colo. 228, 124 P. 2d 757.
Injunctions have also dealt with nuisances from the playing of

mechanical music for advertising purposes. Weber v. Mann, 42 S. W.
2d 492 (Tex. Ct. of Civ. App.); Stodder v. Rosen Talking Machine

Co., 241 Mass. 245, 135 N. E. 251; 247 Mass. 60, 141 N. E. 569.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

336 U. S.

municipal limits of all sound amplification, even though
reasonably regulated in place, time and volume, is undesirable and probably unconstitutional as an unreasonable interference with normal activities.
We have had recently before us an ordinance of the
City of Lockport, New York, prohibiting sound amplification whereby the sound was cast on public places so
as to attract the attention of the passing public to the
annoyance of those within the radius of the sounds. The
ordinance contained this exception:
"Section 3. Exception. Public dissemination,
through radio loudspeakers, of items of news and
matters of public concern and athletic activities shall
not be deemed a violation of this section provided
that the same be done under permission obtained
from the Chief of Police."
This Court held the ordinance "unconstitutional on its
face," Saia v. New York, 334 U. S. 558, because the quoted
section established a "previous restraint" on free speech
with "no standards prescribed for the exercise" of discretion by the Chief of Police. When ordinances undertake censorship of speech or religious practices before
permitting their exercise, the Constitution forbids their
enforcement.' The Court said in the Saia case at 560-61:
"The right to be heard is placed in the uncontrolled
discretion of the Chief of Police. He stands athwart
the channels of communication as an obstruction
which can be removed only after criminal trial and
conviction and lengthy appeal. A more effective
previous restraint is difficult to imagine."
This ordinance is not of that character. It contains
nothing comparable to the above-quoted § 3 of the ordi3Lovell v. City of Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; Hague v. C. I. 0., 307
U. S. 496; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296.

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

Opinion of

REED,

J.

nance in the Saia case. It is an exercise of the authority
granted to the city by New Jersey "to prevent disturbing
noises," N. J. Stat. Ann., tit. 40, § 48-1 (8), nuisances well
within the municipality's power to control. The police
power of a state extends beyond health, morals and safety,
and comprehends the duty, within constitutional limitations, to protect the well-being and tranquility of a
community.' A state or city may prohibit acts or things
reasonably thought to bring evil or harm to its people.
In this case, New Jersey necessarily has construed this
very ordinance as applied to sound amplification.' The
Supreme Court said, 135 N. J. L. 64, 66, 50 A. 2d 451,
452:
"The relevant provisions of the ordinance apply
only to (1) vehicles (2) containing an instrument in
the nature of a sound amplifier or any other instrument emitting loud and raucous noises and (3) such
vehicle operated or standing upon the public streets,
alleys or thoroughfares of the city."
If that means that only amplifiers that emit, in the language of the ordinance, "loud and raucous noises" are
barred from the streets, we have a problem of regulation.
The dissents accept that view. 6 So did the appellant
4 Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Drainage Comm'rs, 200 U. S. 561,
592; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502, 525; Queenside Hills Realty
Co. v. Saxl, 328 U. S. 80, 82.
5The Court of Errors and Appeals was cognizant of the difficulties.
Evening Times Printing Co. v. American Newspaper Guild, 124 N. J.
Eq. 71, 78, 199 A. 598, 602-603.
6 135 N. J. L. 584, 52 A. 2d 809:
(For reversal.) I am of the opinion that the judgment
"COLIE, J.
under review should be reversed but I do not agree that section 4
of the ordinance is an unconstitutional exercise of the police power.
The privilege of a citizen to use the streets for the communication
of ideas is not absolute but must be exercised in subordination to
the general comfort and convenience. Most assuredly the prohibi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

336 U. S.

in his Statement as to Jurisdiction and his brief.' Although this Court must decide for itself whether federal
questions are presented and decided,' we must accept the
tion against making 'loud and raucous' noises is a reasonable
regulation."
Id., at 585: "There is not a scintilla of evidence that the music
or voice was loud or raucous, and under the wording of section 4
such proof is an essential prerequisite to a finding of guilt of a
violation."
The New Jersey courts may have concluded that the necessity
of search by the patrolman to locate the sound truck on a street
was sufficient evidence of loudness and raucousness.
135 N. J. L. 584, 52 A. 2d 808, Eastwood, J., for reversal, speaking
for himself and three other members, said, pp. 588-89: "It appears to
us, and we so hold, that the primary aim of section 4 of the ordinance,
under review, is to prohibit 'loud and raucous noises,' at all times
and in all places in the City of Trenton, emanating from sound
trucks, loud speakers, sound amplifiers, radios or phonographs,
equipped with loud speakers or sound amplifiers, or other similar
instruments. It is thus clear that section 4 of the ordinance is not
regulatory within a proper exercise of the police power of the
municipality."
Id., at 590: "We conclude that section 4 of the ordinance under
attack represents an attempt by the municipality under the guise
of regulation, to prohibit and outlaw, under all circumstances and
conditions, the use of sound amplifying systems."
Perhaps the last-quoted paragraph assumes that all sound trucks
emit loud and raucous noises.
7He
wrote: "Section 4 of the Ordinance, under which appellant
was charged, prohibits any person from using for any purpose whatsoever, a loud speaker or sound amplifier which emits therefrom
'loud and raucous noises' and is attached to any vehicle operated or
standing upon the streets of the City of Trenton."
In the brief this appears:
"This ordinance does not purport to prohibit loud and raucous noises.
It attempts to prohibit sound devices which emit therefrom loud
and raucous noises. This does not validate the ordinance or save
it. In order to be a valid regulation the law must deal with the
abuse
and not with the use of the thing."
8
Lovell v. City of Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, 450.

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

Opinion of

REED,

J.

state courts' conclusion as to the scope of the ordinance.'
We accept the determination of New Jersey that § 4
applies only to vehicles with sound amplifiers emitting
loud and raucous noises. Courts are inclined to adopt that
reasonable interpretation of a statute which removes it
farthest from possible constitutional infirmity. Cox v.
New Hampshire, 312 U. S. 569, 575-76; cf. United States
v. C. I. 0., 335 U. S. 106, 120. We need not determine
whether this ordinance so construed is iegulatory or prohibitory. All regulatory enactments are prohibitory so
far as their restrictions are concerned, and the prohibition
of this ordinance as to a use of streets is merely regulatory.
Sound trucks may be utilized in places such as parks or
other open spaces off the streets. The constitutionality
of the challenged ordinance as violative of appellant's
right of free speech does not depend upon so narrow an
issue as to whether its provisions are cast in the words of
prohibition or regulation." The question is whether or
not there is a real abridgment of the rights of free speech.
Of course, even the fundamental rights of the Bill of
Rights are not absolute. The Saia case recognized that
in this field by stating "The hours and place of public
9 Saia v. New York, 334 U. S. 558; Cox v. New Hampshire, 312
U. S. 569, 574; Winters v. New York, 333 U. S. 507,514.
10 In the exercise of the police power acts or things which could
not be barred completely from use may be prohibited under some
conditions and circumstances when they interfere with the rights
of others. Cox v. New Hampshire, 312 U. S. 569, 574; Chaplinsky
v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568; Sage Stores Co. v. Kansas, 323 U. S.
32, 36; Hutchinson Ice Cream Co. v. Iowa, 242 U. S. 153, 159, compare 160; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 682-83; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S.623, 657-663. For examples of federal prohibitions, see Carolene Products Co. v. United States, 323 U. S. 18, 27,
Third; United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 113, 116; Kentucky
Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 299 U. S. 334, 348;
Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 492-93.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

336 U. S.

discussion can be controlled." "1 It was said decades ago
in an opinion of this Court delivered by Mr. Justice
Holmes, Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47, 52,
that:
"The most stringent protection of free speech would
not protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a theatre
and causing a panic. It does not even protect a
man from an injunction against uttering words that
may have all the effect of force."
Hecklers may be expelled from assemblies and religious
worship may not be disturbed by those anxious to preach
a doctrine of atheism. The right to speak one's mind
would often be an empty privilege in a place and at a
time beyond the protecting hand of the guardians of
public order.
While this Court, in enforcing the broad protection the
Constitution gives to the dissemination of ideas, has invalidated an ordinance forbidding a distributor of pamphlets or handbills from summoning householders to their
doors to receive the distributor's writings, this was on
the ground that the home owner could protect himself
from such intrusion by an appropriate sign "that he is
unwilling to be disturbed." The Court never intimated
that the visitor could insert a foot in the door and insist
on a hearing. Martin v. Struthers, 319 U. S. 141, 143,
148. We do not think that the Struthers case requires
us to expand this interdiction of legislation to include
ordinances against obtaining an audience for the broadcaster's ideas by way of sound trucks with loud and
raucous noises on city streets. The unwilling listener is
11Saia v. New York, 334 U. S. 558, 562; Prince v. Massachusetts,
321 U. S. 158, 166; Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105, 109;
Cox v. New Hampshire, 312 U. S. 569; Cantwell v. Connecticut,
310 U. S. 296, 303; Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357, 371, 373;
Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, 166.

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

Opinion

Of REED, J.

not like the passer-by who may be offered a pamphlet
in the street but cannot be made to take it.12 In his
home or on the street he is practically helpless to escape
this interference with his privacy by loud speakers except
through the protection of the municipality.
City streets are recognized as a normal place for the
exchange of ideas by speech or paper. But this does
not mean the freedom is beyond all control. We think
it is a permissible exercise of legislative discretion to
bar sound trucks with broadcasts of public interest, amplified to a loud and raucous volume, from the public
ways of municipalities. On the business streets of cities
like Trenton, with its more than 125,000 people, such
distractions would be dangerous to traffic at all hours
useful for the dissemination of information, and in the
residential thoroughfares the quiet and tranquility so
desirable for city dwellers would likewise be at the mercy
of advocates of particular religious, social or political
persuasions. We cannot believe that rights of free
speech compel a municipality to allow such mechanical
voice amplification on any of its streets.
The right of free speech is guaranteed every citizen
that he may reach the minds of willing listeners and to
do so there must be opportunity to win their attention.
This is the phase of freedom of speech that is involved
here. We do not think the Trenton ordinance abridges
that freedom. It is an extravagant extension of due
process to say that because of it a city cannot forbid
talking on the streets through a loud speaker in a loud
and raucous tone. Surely such an ordinance does not
violate our people's "concept of ordered liberty" so as to
require federal intervention to protect a citizen from the
action of his own local government. Cf. Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, 325. Opportunity to gain the
12

See Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 162.

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of

REED,

J.

336 U. S.

public's ears by objectionably amplified sound on the
streets is no more assured by the right of free speech
than is the unlimited opportunity to address gatherings
on the streets. 3 The preferred position "4of freedom of
speech in a society that cherishes liberty for all does not
require legislators to be insensible to claims by citizens to
comfort and convenience. To enforce freedom of speech
in disregard of the rights of others would be harsh and
arbitrary in itself. That more people may be more easily
and cheaply reached by sound trucks, perhaps borrowed
without cost from some zealous supporter, is not enough to
13

Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 160-61:

"Municipal authorities, as trustees for the public, have the duty
to keep their communities' streets open and available for movement
of people and prolerty, the primary purpose to which the streets
are dedicated. So long as legislation to this end does not abridge
the constitutional liberty of one rightfully upon the street to impart
information through speech or the distribution of literature, it may
lawfully regulate the conduct of those using the streets. For example, a person could not exercise this liberty by taking his stand
in the middle of a crowded street, contrary to traffic regulations,
and maintain his position to the stoppage of all traffic; a group of
distributors could not insist upon a constitutional right to form a
cordon across the street and to allow no pedestrian to pass who
did not accept a tendered leaflet; nor does the guarantee of freedom
of speech or of the press deprive a municipality of power to enact
regulations against throwing literature broadcast in the streets.
Prohibition of such conduct would not abridge the constitutional
liberty since such activity bears no necessary relationship to the
freedom to speak, write, print or distribute information or opinion."
Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 308:
"When clear and present danger of riot, disorder, interference
with traffic upon the public streets, or other immediate threat to
public safety, peace, or order, appears, the power of the State to
prevent or punish is obvious. Equally obvious is it that a State
may not unduly suppress free communication of views, religious or
other, under the guise of conserving desirable conditions."
14 Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 527, note 12, 530; Murdock
v. Pennsylvania,319 U. S. 105.

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

call forth constitutional protection for what those charged
with public welfare reasonably think is a nuisance when
easy means of publicity are open. Section 4 of the ordinance bars sound trucks from broadcasting in a loud and
raucous manner on the streets. There is no restriction
upon the communication of ideas or discussion of issues
by the human voice, by newspapers, by pamphlets, by
dodgers. We think that the need for reasonable protection in the homes or business houses from the distracting
noises of vehicles equipped with such sound amplifying
devices justifies the ordinance.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

dissents.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring.

Wise accommodation between liberty and order always
has been, and ever will be, indispensable for a democratic
society. Insofar as the Constitution commits the duty of
making this accommodation to this Court, it demands
vigilant judicial self-restraint. A single decision by a
closely divided court, unsupported by the confirmation
of time, cannot check the living process of striking a
wise balance between liberty and order as new cases
come here for adjudication. To dispose of this case on
the assumption that the Saia case, 334 U. S. 558, decided
only the other day, was rightly decided, would be for me
to start with an unreality. While I am not unaware
of the circumstances that differentiate this case from
what was ruled in Saia, further reflection has only
served to reinforce the dissenting views I expressed in
that case. Id. at 562. In the light of them I conclude
that there is nothing in the Constitution of the United
States to bar New Jersey from authorizing the City of
Trenton to deal in the manner chosen by the City with
the aural aggressions implicit in the use of sound trucks.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

The opinions in this case prompt me to make some
additional observations. My brother REED speaks of
"the preferred position of freedom of speech," though,
to be sure, he finds that the Trenton ordinance does not
disregard it. This is a phrase that has uncritically crept
I deem it a
into some recent opinions of this Court.
mischievous phrase, if it carries the thought, which it
may subtly imply, that any law touching communication
is infected with presumptive invalidity. It is not the
first time in the history of constitutional adjudication that
such a doctrinaire attitude has disregarded the admonition most to be observed in exercising the Court's reviewing power over legislation, "that it is a constitution we
are expounding," M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
407. I say the phrase is mischievous because it radiates
a constitutional doctrine without avowing it. Clarity
and candor in these matters, so as to avoid gliding unwittingly into error, make it appropriate to trace the history
of the phrase "preferred position." The following is a
chronological account of the evolution of talk about
"preferred position" except where the thread of derivation is plain enough to be indicated.
1. Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U. S. 242, 258: "The power
of a state to abridge freedom of speech and of assembly
is the exception rather than the rule and the penalizing
even of utterances of a defined character must find its
justification in a reasonable apprehension of danger to
organized government. The judgment of the legislature
is not unfettered. The limitation upon individual liberty
must have appropriate relation to the safety of the state."
2. United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S.
144, 152, n. 4, set forth in the margin.' A footnote hardly
I"There may be narrower scope for operation of the presumption
of constitutionality when legislation appears on its face to be within
a specific prohibition of the Constitution, such as those of the first
ten amendments, which are deemed equally specific when held to

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

seems to be an appropriate way of announcing a new
constitutional doctrine, and the Carolene footnote did not
purport to announce any new doctrine; incidentally, it

did not have the concurrence of a majority of the Court.
It merely rephrased and expanded what was said in
Herndon v. Lowry, supra, and elsewhere. It certainly
did not assert a presumption of invalidity against all
legislation touching matters related to liberties protected
by the Bill of Rights and the Fourteenth Amendment.
It merely stirred inquiry whether as to such matters there
be embraced within the Fourteenth. See Stromberg v. California,
283 U. S. 359, 369-370; Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, 452.
"It is unnecessary to consider now whether legislation which restricts those political processes which can ordinarily be expected to
bring about repeal of undesirable legislation, is to be subjected to
more exacting judicial scrutiny under the general prohibitions of
the Fourteenth Amendment than are most other types of legislation. On restrictions upon the right to vote, see Nixon v. Herndon,
273 U. S. 536; Nixon v. Condon, 286 U. S.73; on restraints upon
the dissemination of information, see Near v. Minnesota ex rel.
Olson, 283 U. S.697, 713-714, 718-720, 722; Grosjean v. American
Press Co., 297 U. S.233; Lovell v. Griffin, supra; on interferences
with political organizations, see Stromberg v. California, supra, 369;
Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S. 380; Whitney v. California, 274 U. S.
357, 373-378; Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U. S.242; and see Holmes, J.,
in Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652, 673; as to prohibition of
peaceable assembly, see De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S.353, 365.
"Nor need we enquire whether similar considerations enter into
the review of statutes directed at particular religious, Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S.510, or national, Meyer v. Nebraska, 262
U. S. 390; Bartels v. Iowa, 262 U. S.404; Farringtonv. Tokushige,
273 U. S.284, or racial minorities, Nixon v. Herndon, supra; Nixon
v. Condon, supra: whether prejudice against discrete and insular
minorities may be a special condition, which tends seriously to curtail the operation of those political processes ordinarily to be relied
upon to protect minorities, and which may call for a correspondingly
more searching judicial inquiry. Compare McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 428; South Carolinav. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S.177,
184, n. 2, and cases cited."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

may be "narrower scope for operation of the presumption
of constitutionality" and legislation regarding them is
therefore "to be subjected to more exacting judicial
scrutiny."
The Carolene footnote is cited in Thornhill v. Alabama,
310 U. S. 88, 95, in an opinion which thus proceeds:
"Mere legislative preference for one rather than another
means for combatting substantive evils, therefore, may
well prove an inadequate foundation on which to rest
regulations which are aimed at or in their operation
diminish the effective exercise of rights so necessary to
the maintenance of democratic institutions. It is imperative that, when the effective exercise of these rights
is claimed to be abridged, the courts should 'weigh the
circumstances' and 'appraise the substantiality of the reasons advanced' in support of the challenged regulations.
Schneider v. State . ...

It is cited again in the opinion of the Court in A. F.
of L. v. Swing, 312 U. S. 321, 325, together with the
Herndon and Schneider cases, in support of the statement
that the "right to free discussion" "is to be guarded with a
jealous eye."
The Carolene footnote was last cited in an opinion of
this Court in the passage of Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S.
516, 530, quoted below.
(3) Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, 161: "In every
case, therefore, where legislative abridgment of the rights
[freedom of speech and of the press] is asserted, the
courts should be astute to examine the effect of the challenged legislation. Mere legislative preferences or beliefs
respecting matters of public convenience may well support
regulation directed at other personal activities, but be
insufficient to justify such as diminishes the exercise
of rights so vital to the maintenance of democratic
institutions. And so, as cases arise, the delicate and difficult task falls upon the courts to weigh the circumstances

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

and to appraise the substantiality of the reasons advanced
in support of the regulation of the free enjoyment of the
rights."
(4) Bridges v. California,314 U. S. 252, 262-63: "Moreover, the likelihood, however great, that a substantive
evil will result cannot alone justify a restriction upon
freedom of speech or the press. The evil itself must be
'substantial,' Brandeis, J., concurring in Whitney v. California, supra, [274 U. S. 357] 374; it must be 'serious,' id.
376. And even the expression of 'legislative preferences
or beliefs' cannot transform minor matters of public inconvenience or annoyance into substantive evils of sufficient weight to warrant the curtailment of liberty of expression. Schneider v. State ....
"What finally emerges from the 'clear and present danger' cases is a working principle that the substantive evil
must be extremely serious and the degree of imminence
extremely high before utterances can be punished."
This formulation of the "clear-and-present-danger"
test was quoted and endorsed in Pennekamp v. Florida,
328 U. S. 331, 334.
(5) A number of Jehovah's Witnesses cases refer to the
freedoms specified by the First Amendment as in a "preferred position." The phrase was apparently first used
in the dissent of Chief Justice Stone in Jones v. Opelika,
316 U. S. 584, 600, 608. It reappears in Murdock v.
Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105, 115; Prince v. Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158, 164; Follett v. McCormick, 321 U. S.
573, 575; Marsh v. Alabama, 326 U. S.501, 509; Saia v.
New York, 334 U. S.558, 562.
(6) West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette, 319 U. S.624, 639: "The test of legislation which
collides with the Fourteenth Amendment, because it also
collides with the principles of the First, is much more definite than the test when only the Fourteenth is involved.
Much of the vagueness of the due process clause disap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

pears when the specific prohibitions of the First become
its standard. The right of a State to regulate, for example, a public utility may well include, so far as the
due process test is concerned, power to impose all of the
restrictions which a legislature may have a 'rational basis'
for adopting. But freedoms of speech and of press, of
assembly, and of worship may not be infringed on such
slender grounds. They are susceptible of restriction only
to prevent grave and immediate danger to interests which
the State may lawfully protect."
(7) Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 530: "For these
reasons any attempt to restrict those liberties must be
justified by clear public interest, threatened not doubtfully or remotely, but by clear and present danger. The
rational connection between the remedy provided and
the evil to be curbed, which in other contexts might support legislation against attack on due process grounds,
will not suffice. These rights rest on firmer foundation.
Accordingly, whatever occasion would restrain orderly
discussion and persuasion, at appropriate time and place,
must have clear support in public danger, actual or impending. Only the gravest abuses, endangering paramount interests, give occasion for permissible limitation."
This is perhaps the strongest language dealing with the
constitutional aspect of legislation touching utterance.
But it was the opinion of only four members of the Court,
since MR. JUSTICE

in a separate concurring
opinion, referred to the opinion of MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE
JACKSON,

only to say that he agreed that the case fell into "the
category of a public speech, rather than that of practicing
a vocation as solicitor." Id. at 548.
In short, the claim that any legislation is presumptively
unconstitutional which touches the field of the First
Amendment and the Fourteenth Amendment, insofar as
the latter's concept of "liberty" contains what is specifi-

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

cally protected by the First, has never commended itself
to a majority of this Court.
Behind the notion sought to be expressed by the formula as to "the preferred position of freedom of speech"
lies a relevant consideration in determining whether an
enactment relating to the liberties protected by the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is violative
of it. In law also, doctrine is illuminated by history.
The ideas now governing the constitutional protection of
freedom of speech derive essentially from the opinions
of Mr. Justice Holmes.
The philosophy of his opinions on that subject arose
from a deep awareness of the extent to which sociological conclusions are conditioned by time and circumstance. Because of this awareness Mr. Justice Holmes
seldom felt justified in opposing his own opinion to economic views which the legislature embodied in law. But
since he also realized that the progress of civilization is to
a considerable extent the displacement of error which once
held sway as official truth by beliefs which in turn have
yielded to other beliefs, for him the right to search for
truth was of a different order than some transient economic dogma. And without freedom of expression,
thought becomes checked and atrophied. Therefore, in
considering what interests are so fundamental as to be
enshrined in the Due Process Clause, those liberties of the
individual which history has attested as the indispensable
conditions of an open as against a closed society come to
this Court with a momentum for respect lacking when
appeal is made to liberties which derive merely from shifting economic arrangements. Accordingly, Mr. Justice
Holmes was far more ready to find legislative invasion
where free inquiry was involved than in the debatable
area of economics. See my Mr. Justice Holmes and the
Supreme Court, 58 et seq.
823978 0-49---I

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

The objection to summarizing this line of thought by
the phrase "the preferred position of freedom of speech"
is that it expresses a complicated process of constitutional
adjudication by a deceptive formula. And it was Mr.
Justice Holmes who admonished us that "To rest upon a
formula is a slumber that, prolonged, means death."
Collected Legal Papers, 306. Such a formula makes for
mechanical jurisprudence.
Some of the arguments made in this case strikingly
illustrate how easy it is to fall into the ways of mechanical
jurisprudence through the use of oversimplified formulas.
It is argued that the Constitution protects freedom
of speech: freedom of speech means the right to communicate, whatever the physical means for so doing;
sound trucks are one form of communication; ergo that
form is entitled to the same protection as any other means
of communication, whether by tongue or pen. Such sterile argumentation treats society as though it consisted of
bloodless categories. The various forms of modern socalled "mass communications" raise issues that were not
implied in the means of communication known or contemplated by Franklin and Jefferson and Madison. Cf.
Associated Press v. United States, 326 U. S. 1. Movies
have created problems not presented by the circulation
of books, pamphlets, or newspapers, and so the movies
have been constitutionally regulated. Mutual Film Corporationv. IndustrialCommission, 236 U. S. 230. Broadcasting in turn has produced its brood of complicated
problems hardly to be solved by an easy formula about
the preferred position of free speech. See National
Broadcasting Co. v. United States, 319 U. S. 190.
Only a disregard of vital differences between natural
speech, even of the loudest spellbinders, and the noise of
sound trucks would give sound trucks the constitutional
rights accorded to the unaided human voice. Nor is it for
this Court to devise the terms on which sound trucks

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

JACKSON,

J., concurring.

should be allowed to operate, if at all. These are matters
for the legislative judgment controlled by public opinion.
So long as a legislature does not prescribe what ideas
may be noisily expressed and what may not be, nor
discriminate among those who would make inroads upon
the public peace, it is not for us to supervise the limits the
legislature may impose in safeguarding the steadily narrowing opportunities for serenity and reflection. Without such opportunities freedom of thought becomes a
mocking phrase, and without freedom of thought there
can be no free society.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

concurring.

I join the judgment sustaining the Trenton ordinance
because I believe that operation of mechanical soundamplifying devices conflicts with quiet enjoyment of
home and park and with safe and legitimate use of street
and market place, and that it is constitutionally subject
to regulation or prohibition by the state or municipal
authority. No violation of the Due Process Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment by reason of infringement
of free speech arises unless such regulation or prohibition
undertakes to censor the contents of the broadcasting.
Freedom of speech for Kovacs does not, in my view,
include freedom to use sound amplifiers to drown out the
natural speech of others.
I do not agree that, if we sustain regulations or prohibitions of sound trucks, they must therefore be valid
if applied to other methods of "communication of ideas."
The moving picture screen, the radio, the newspaper, the
handbill, the sound truck and the street corner orator
have differing natures, values, abuses and dangers. Each,
in my view, is a law unto itself, and all we are dealing
with now is the sound truck.
But I agree with MR. JUSTICE BLACK that this decision
is a repudiation of that in Saia v. New York, 334 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

558. Like him, I am unable to find anything in this
record to warrant a distinction because of "loud and
raucous" tones of this machine. The Saia decision struck
down a more moderate exercise of the state's police power
than the one now sustained. Trenton, as the ordinance
reads to me, unconditionally bans all sound trucks from
the city streets. Lockport relaxed its prohibition with
a proviso to allow their use, even in areas set aside for
public recreation, when and where the Chief of Police
saw no objection. Comparison of this our 1949 decision
with our 1948 decision, I think, will pretty hopelessly
confuse municipal authorities as to what they may or
may not do.
I concur in the present result only for the reasons stated
in dissent in Saia v. New York, 334 U. S. 558, 566.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur, dissenting.
The question in this case is not whether appellant may
constitutionally be convicted of operating a sound truck
that emits "loud and raucous noises." The appellant
was neither charged with nor convicted of operating a
sound truck that emitted "loud and raucous noises."
The charge against him in the police court was that he
violated the city ordinance "in that he did, on South
Stockton Street, in said. City, play, use and operate a
device known as a sound truck." The record reflects not
even a shadow of evidence to prove that the noise was
either "loud or raucous," unless these words of the ordinance refer to any noise coming from an amplifier, whatever its volume or tone.
After appellant's conviction in the police court, the
case was taken to the Supreme Court of New Jersey for
review. That court, composed of three judges, stated
with reference to the ordinance and charge: "In simple,

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

unambiguous language it prohibits the use upon the
public streets of any device known as a sound truck, loud
speaker or sound amplifier. This is the only charge
made against the defendant in the complaint." Kovacs
v. Cooper, 135 N. J. L. 64, 69, 50 A. 2d 451, 453-454.
That this court construed the ordinance as an absolute
prohibition of all amplifiers on any public street at any
time and without regard to volume of sound is emphasized
by its further statement that "the ordinance leaves untouched the right of the prosecutor to express his views
orally without the aid of an amplifier." Id. at 66. (Emphasis supplied.) Thus the New Jersey Supreme Court
affirmed the conviction on the ground that the appellant
was shown guilty of the only offense of which he was
charged-speaking through an amplifier on a public
-street. If as some members of this Court now assume,
he was actually convicted for operating a machine that
emitted "loud and raucous noises," then he was convicted
on a charge for which he was never tried. "It is as much
a violation of due process to send an accused to prison
following conviction of a charge on which he was never
tried as it would be to convict him upon a charge that
was never made." Cole v. Arkansas, 333 U. S. 196, 201.
Furthermore, when the conviction was later affirmed
in the New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals by an
equally divided court, no one of that court's judges who
voted to affirm expressed any doubt as to the correctness
of the New Jersey Supreme Court's interpretation; indeed those judges wrote no opinion at all. One of the six
who voted to reverse did base his judgment on the fact
that there was not "a scintilla of evidence that the music
or voice was loud or raucous" and that under the wording
of the ordinance such proof was essential. Kovacs v.
Cooper, 135 N. J. L. 584, 585, 52 A. 2d 806, 809. In
construing the statute as requiring a proof of loud and

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

raucous noises, the dissenting judge made the initial
mistake of the majority of this Court, but he conceded
that under this construction of the statute there was a
fatal absence of proof to convict. The other five judges
who were for reversal concluded that the ordinance represented "an attempt by the municipality under the guise
of regulation, to prohibit and outlaw, under all circumstances and conditions, the use of sound amplifying systems." Kovacs v. Cooper, supra at 590.
It thus appears that the appellant was charged and
convicted by interpreting the ordinance as an absolute
prohibition against the use of sound amplifying devices.
The New Jersey Supreme Court affirmed only on that
interpretation of the ordinance. There is no indication
whatever that there was a different view entertained
by the six judges of the Court of Errors and Appeals who
affirmed the conviction. And it strains the imagination
to say that the ordinance itself would warrant any other
interpretation.
Nevertheless, in this Court the requisite majority for
affirmance of appellant's conviction is composed in part
of Justices who give the New Jersey ordinance a construction different from that given it by the state courts. That
is not all. Affirmance here means that the appellant will
be punished for an offense with which he was not charged,
to prove which no evidence was offered, and of which he
was not convicted, according to the only New Jersey
court which affirmed with opinion. At the last term of
court we held that the Arkansas Supreme Court had
denied an appellant due process because it had failed to
appraise the validity of a conviction "on consideration of
the case as it was tried and as the issues were determined
in the trial court." Cole v. Arkansas, supra at 202. I
am unable to distinguish the action taken by this Court
today from the action of the Arkansas Supreme Court
which we declared denied a defendant due process of law.

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

The New Jersey ordinance is on its face, and as construed and applied in this case by that state's courts, an
absolute and unqualified prohibition of amplifying devices
on any of Trenton's streets at any time, at any place, for
any purpose, and without regard to how noisy they
may be.
In Saia v. New York, 334 U. S. 558, we had before us an
ordinance of the City of Lockport, New York, which forbade the use of sound amplification devices except with
permission of the chief of police. The ordinance was
applied to keep a minister from using an amplifier while
preaching in a public park. We held that the ordinance,
aimed at the use of an amplifying device, invaded the
area of free speech guaranteed the people by the First
and Fourteenth Amendments. The ordinance, so we decided, amounted to censorship in its baldest form. And
our conclusion rested on the fact that the chief of police
was given arbitrary power to prevent the use of speech
amplifying devices at all times and places in the city
without regard to the volume of the sound. We pointed
out the indispensable function performed by loud speakers
in modern public speaking. We then placed use of loud
speakers in public streets and parks on the same constitutional level as freedom to speak on streets without such
devices, freedom to speak over radio, and freedom to distribute literature.
In this case the Court denies speech amplifiers the constitutional shelter recognized by our decisions and holding in the Saia case. This is true because the Trenton,
New Jersey, ordinance here sustained goes beyond a mere
prior censorship of all loud speakers with authority in the
censor to prohibit some of them. This Trenton ordinance
wholly bars the use of all loud speakers mounted upon
any vehicle in any of the city's public streets.
In my view this repudiation of the prior Saia opinion
makes a dangerous and unjustifiable breach in the consti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

tutional barriers designed to insure freedom of expression.
Ideas and beliefs are today chiefly disseminated to the
masses of people through the press, radio, moving pictures,
and public address systems. To some extent at least there
is competition of ideas between and within these groups.
The basic premise of the First Amendment is that all
present instruments of communication, as well as others
that inventive genius may bring into being, shall be
free from governmental censorship or prohibition. Laws
which hamper the free use of some instruments of communication thereby favor competing channels. Thus, unless constitutionally prohibited, laws like this Trenton
ordinance can give an overpowering influence to views of
owners of legally favored instruments of communication.
This favoritism, it seems to me, is the inevitable result of
today's decision. For the result of today's opinion in
upholding this statutory prohibition of amplifiers would
surely not be reached by this Court if such channels of
communication as the press, radio, or moving pictures
were similarly attacked.
There are many people who have ideas that they wish
to disseminate but who do not have enough money to
own or control publishing plants, newspapers, radios,
moving picture studios, or chains of show places. Yet
everybody knows the vast reaches of these powerful
channels of communication which from the very nature
of our economic system must be under the control and
guidance of comparatively few people. On the other
hand, public speaking is done by many men of divergent
minds with no centralized control over the ideas they
entertain so as to limit the causes they espouse. It is
no reflection on the value of preserving freedom for dissemination of the ideas of publishers of newspapers, magazines, and other literature, to believe that transmission
of ideas through public speaking is also essential to the
sound thinking of a fully informed citizenry.

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

It is of particular importance in a government where
people elect their officials that the fullest opportunity
be afforded candidates to express and voters to hear their
views. It is of equal importance that criticism of governmental action not be limited to criticisms by press,
radio, and moving pictures. In no other way except
public speaking can the desirable objective of widespread
public discussion be assured. For the press, the radio,
and the moving picture owners have their favorites, and
it assumes the impossible to suppose that these agencies
will at all times be equally fair as between the candidates
and officials they favor and those whom they vigorously
oppose. And it is an obvious fact that public speaking
today without sound amplifiers is a wholly inadequate
way to reach the people on a large scale. Consequently,
to tip the scales against transmission of ideas through
public speaking, as the Court does today, is to deprive
the people of a large part of the basic advantages of the
receipt of ideas that the First Amendment was designed
to protect.
There is no more reason that I can see for wholly prohibiting one useful instrument of communication than
another. If Trenton can completely bar the streets to the
advantageous use of loud speakers, all cities can do the
same. In that event preference in the dissemination of
ideas is given those who can obtain the support of newspapers, etc., or those who have money enough to buy advertising from newspapers, radios, or moving pictures.
This Court should no more permit this invidious prohibition against the dissemination of ideas by speaking than
it would permit a complete blackout of the press, the
radio, or moving pictures. It is wise for all who
cherish freedom of expression to reflect upon the plain
fact that a holding that the audiences of public speakers
can be constitutionally prohibited is not unrelated to a
like prohibition in other fields. And the right to freedom

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

of expression should be protected from absolute censorship for persons without, as for persons with, wealth and
power. At least, such is the theory of our society.
-I am aware that the "blare" of this new method of
carrying ideas is susceptible of abuse and may under
certain circumstances constitute an intolerable nuisance.
But ordinances can be drawn which adequately protect a
community from unreasonable use of public speaking devices without absolutely denying to the community's
citizens all information that may be disseminated or received through this new avenue for trade in ideas. I
would agree without reservation to the sentiment that
"unrestrained use throughout a municipality of all sound
amplifying devices would be intolerable." And of course
cities may restrict or absolutely ban the use of amplifiers
on busy streets in the business area. A city ordinance
that reasonably restricts the volume of sound, or the hours
during which an amplifier may be used, does not, in my
mind, infringe the constitutionally protected area of free
speech. It is because this ordinance does none of these
things, but is instead an absolute prohibition of all uses
of an amplifier on any of the streets of Trenton at any
time that I must dissent.
I would reverse the judgment.
dissenting.
I am in accord with the views expressed by my brother
BLACK.
I think it important, however, to point out that
a majority here agree with him that the issue presented
is whether a state (here a municipality) may forbid all
use of sound trucks or amplifying devices in public streets,
without reference to whether "loud and raucous noises"
are emitted. Only a minority take the view that the
Trenton ordinance merely forbids using amplifying instruments emitting loud and raucous noises.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

KOVACS v. COOPER.
77

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

Yet a different majority, one including that minority
and two other justices, sustain the ordinance and its
application. In effect Kovacs stands convicted, but of
what it is impossible to tell, because the majority upholding the conviction do not agree upon what constituted
the crime. How, on such a hashing of different views of
the thing forbidden, Kovacs could have known with what
he was charged or could have prepared a defense, I am
unable to see. How anyone can do either in the future,
under this decision, I am equally at loss to say.
In my view an ordinance drawn so ambiguously and
inconsistently as to reflect the differing views of its meaning taken by the two groups who compose the majority
sustaining it, would violate Fourteenth Amendment due
process even if no question of free speech were involved.
No man should be subject to punishment under a statute
when even a bare majority of judges upholding the conviction cannot agree upon what acts the statute denounces.
What the effect of this decision may be I cannot foretell, except that Kovacs will stand convicted and the division among the majority voting to affirm leaves open for
future determination whether absolute and total state
prohibition of sound trucks in public places can stand
consistently with the First Amendment. For myself, I
have no doubt of state power to regulate their abuse in
reasonable accommodation, by narrowly drawn statutes,
to other interests concerned in use of the streets and in
freedom from public nuisance. But that the First
Amendment limited its protections of speech to the natural range of the human voice as it existed in 1790 would
be, for me, like saying that the commerce power remains
limited to navigation by sail and travel by the use of
horses and oxen in accordance with the principal modes
of carrying on commerce in 1789. The Constitution was
not drawn with any such limited vision of time, space

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

336 U. S.

and mechanics. It is one thing to hold that the states
may regulate the use of sound trucks by appropriately
limited measures. It is entirely another to say their use
can be forbidden altogether.
To what has been said above and by MR. JUSTICE
BLACK, I would add only that I think my brother FRANKFURTER demonstrates the conclusion opposite to that
which he draws, namely, that the First Amendment guaranties of the freedoms of speech, press, assembly and
religion occupy preferred position not only in the Bill
of Rights but also in the repeated decisions of this Court.

RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY, INC.

ET AL.

V.

NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK.

No. 51.

Argued December 6, 1948.-Decided January 31, 1949.

A New York City traffic regulation forbids the operation of any
advertising vehicle on the streets, but excepts vehicles which have
upon them business notices or advertisements of the products of
the owner and which are not used merely or mainly for advertising.
An express company, which sold space on the exterior sides of its
trucks for advertising and which operated such trucks on the
streets, was convicted and fined for violating the ordinance. Upon
review here of the state court judgment, held:
1. The regulation does not violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 108-109.
(a) The function of this Court upon such review is not to
weigh evidence on the due process issue in order to determine
whether the regulation is sound or appropriate, nor to pass judgment on the wisdom of the regulation. P. 109.
(b) This Court can not say that the regulation has no relation
to the traffic problem of the City. P. 109.
2. The exemption of vehicles having upon them advertisements
of products sold by the owner does not render the regulation a
denial of the equal protection of the laws. Pp. 109-110.

