OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

336 U. S.

its adjudication and not inconsistent with our holding
that fiduciary funds cannot be committed except by the
Bankruptcy Court.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

join in this opinion.
LA CROSSE TELEPHONE CORP. v. WISCONSIN

EMPLOYMENT RELATIONS BOARD
NO. 38.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.*

Argued November 18-19, 1948.-Decided January 17, 1949.
1. A certification by the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board
of a union as the collective bargaining representative of the employees of an employer engaged in interstate commerce, which
certification has been reviewed and sustained by the highest court
of the State, held, in view of the effect of the certification under
the state law, a "final judgment" within the meaning of § 237 (a)
of the Judicial Code and reviewable here, although the certification
was not in the form of a command. Pp. 21-24.
2. In a proceeding under state law, the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board certified that the employees in the plant and traffic
departments of a telephone company had elected to combine in a
single bargaining unit and had chosen a certain labor organization
as their collective bargaining representative, and that the employees
in the office department had elected to constitute themselves as
a separate unit and had chosen not to have any collective bargaining
representative. The National Labor Relations Board had not undertaken, under the National Labor Relations Act, to determine the
appropriate bargaining representative or unit of representation of
the employees. The company concededly was engaged in interstate commerce and the industry was one over which the National
Labor Relations Board had consistently exercised jurisdiction.
Held: The State Board's certification is invalid as in conflict with
the National Labor Relations Act. Bethlehem Steel Co. v. New
*Together with No. 39, International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers, Local B-953, A. F. of L. v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Board et al., also on appeal from the same court.

LA CROSSE TEL. CORP. v. WIS. BOARD.
18

19

Counsel for Parties.

York State Labor Relations Board, 330 U. S. 767, followed. Pp.
24-26.
3. The Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, which authorizes
the National Board under specified conditions to cede its jurisdiction to a state agency, does not require a result different from that
here reached. Pp. 26-27.
251 Wis. 583,30 N. W. 2d 241, reversed.

The appellant telephone company and the appellant
union each brought an action in a state court to set aside
a certification by the Wisconsin Employment Relations
Board. The State Circuit Court held that the State
Board was without jurisdiction to issue the certification.
The State Supreme Court reversed. 251 Wis. 583, 30
N. W. 2d 241. On appeals to this Court, reversed, p. 27.
Thomas H. Skemp argued the cause for appellant in No.
38. With him on the brief was Quincy H. Hale.
Louis Sherman argued the cause for appellant in No. 39.
With him on the brief was Philip R. Collins.
Beatrice Lampert, Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin, argued the cause for appellees. With her on the
brief were Grover L. Broadfoot, Attorney General, and
Stewart G. Honeck, Deputy Attorney General. John E.
Martin, then Attorney General, was on a statement opposing jurisdiction.
Solicitor General Perlman, David P. Findling, Ruth
Weyand and Mozart G. Ratner filed a brief for the United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting appellants.
T. McKeen Chidsey, Attorney General, M. Louise
Rutherford, Deputy Attorney General, and George L.
Reed, Solicitor, Labor Relations Board, filed a brief for
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as amicus curiae, in
No. 39, urging affirmance.
Donald J. Martin filed a brief for the Communication
Workers of America, Division 23, supporting appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases, here on appeal from the Wisconsin Supreme Court, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a), 43 Stat. 937, 45 Stat.
54, present the question whether a certification of a union
by the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board, Wis.
Stats. 1947, ch. 111, as the collective bargaining representative of the employees of appellant company, conflicts
with the National Labor Relations Act, 49 Stat. 449, 29
U. S. C. §§ 151 et seq.
Prior to 1945 the appellant company recognized the
appellant union as the collective bargaining representative of its plant and traffic department employees. The
company and the union entered into a collective bargaining agreement which by its terms was to continue from
year to year unless terminated by either party on a specified notice. At a time when certain provisions of that
agreement were being renegotiated a rival union, the
Telephone Guild, filed a petition with the National Board
asking that it certify the collective bargaining representative of these employees. Before the National Board
acted, the Guild withdrew its petition and filed a petition
with the Wisconsin Board seeking the same relief.
The Wisconsin Board held a hearing and directed that
separate elections be held among the employees in the
plant, traffic, and office departments of the company to
determine whether they desired to be grouped in a single
unit or in departmental units and what representative,
if any, they desired to elect. After the election the
Wisconsin Board certified that the employees in the plant
and traffic departments had elected to combine in a single
bargaining unit and had chosen the Guild as their collective bargaining representative, and that the employees
in the office department had elected to constitute themselves as a separate unit and had chosen not to have
any collective bargaining representative.

LA CROSSE TEL. CORP. v. WIS. BOARD.
18

21

Opinion of the Court.

Each appellant brought an action in the Wiscon~in
courts to have the certification set aside. The Circuit
Court, relying on Bethlehem Steel Co. v. New York Labor
Relations Board, 330 U. S. 767, held that the Wisconsin
Board was without jurisdiction to issue the certification.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin reversed. 251 Wis.
583, 30 N. W. 2d 241.
First. We are met at the outset with a contention that
the certification of the Wisconsin Board which has been
sustained by the Wisconsin Supreme Court is not a "final
judgment" within the meaning of § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344. The argument is that under
Wisconsin law the certification is no more than a report
on the results of an investigation made known to the
parties for such use as they may desire, that nothing
can be done by any state agency to enforce observance
of the certification, that the company cannot be required
to bargain with the certified union until and unless an
unfair practice charge is lodged against it, and that in
such proceeding all the issues involved in the certification
proceeding can be relitigated. If that contention is correct, the case is of course not ripe for the intervention
of the federal judicial power. See Rochester Telephone
Corp. v. United States, 307 U. S. 125, 130-131 and cases
cited.
But it has not been shown that the Wisconsin law gives
such slight force to the certification. The statute provides that the representative chosen by the employees
shall be the exclusive one for purposes of collective bargaining. § 111.05 (1). Provision is made for the board
to take a secret ballot of the employees and to certify the
results thereof, whenever a question arises concerning the
representation of employees in a collective bargaining
unit. § 111.05 (3). And the statute contains the following direction: "The board's certification of the results
of any election shall be conclusive as to the findings in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

cluded therein unless reviewed in the same manner as provided by subsection (8) of section 111.07 for review of
orders of the board." 1 § 111.05 (3). The certification in
these cases has been reviewed and sustained by the highest
court of Wisconsin. While that certification is not irrevocable for all time,2 it fixes a status to which Wisconsin
provides a sanction. For it is an unfair labor practice
for an employer to refuse to bargain with the representative of a majority of the employees.3 § 111.06 (d).
And since § 111.05 (3) makes the certification, subject to
judicial review, "conclusive as to the findings included
therein," it would seem that the certification cannot be
collaterally attacked in that proceeding or heard de novo.
We are pointed to no Wisconsin authority to the effect
that it can be.
On this phase of the case we are, indeed, referred to
only one Wisconsin authority and that is United R. &
W. D. S. E. v. Wisconsin Board, 245 Wis. 636, 15 N. W.
2d 844. But that case merely held that an order of
the Wisconsin Board that a referendum of employees by
secret ballot be held to determine whether an "all union"
agreement was desired was not reviewable. It did not
' That review extends to administrative decisions affecting legal
rights, duties, and privileges whether affirmative or negative in form,
§ 227.15, and is allowed any person aggrieved and directly affected
by the administrative decision. § 227.16.
2 Section 111.05 (4) provides "The fact that one election has been
held shall not prevent the holding of another election among the
same group of employes, provided that it appears to the board that
sufficient reason therefor exists."
3 Section 111.06 (d)
also provides that where an employer files
with the board a petition requesting a determination as to majority
representation "he shall not be deemed to have refused to bargain
until an election has been held and the result thereof has been certified
to him by the board." But we are pointed to no authority holding
that where a certification has already been made, a recertification can
be demanded. Section 111.05 (3), indeed, makes the certification
"iconclusive."

LA CROSSE TEL. CORP. v. WIS. BOARD.
18

23

Opinion of the Court.

deal with a certificate which was in fact reviewed and
sustained by the same court as in the present cases. It
is true that in the opinion below, the Wisconsin Supreme
Court said that the "mere fact-finding procedure" of the
Wisconsin Board in ascertaining the facts, in ordering
an election, and in certifying the result "constitutes
action in merely its ministerial capacity." 251 Wis.
at 592, 30 N. W. 2d at 245. But that comment was
directed to the lack of discretion which the state statute
had left the Wisconsin Board. It had no relevance to
the effect of the certification under Wisconsin law.
While the Wisconsin Employment Relations Board
seems readier than some to reexamine the status of a
bargaining representative on the ground that it has lost
the support of a majority, 4 it nevertheless appears to be
Wisconsin law that a certification is binding upon an
employer so long as it stands.5
We assumed in Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp. v.
Kelley, 330 U. S. 767, that the certification of a collective
bargaining representative, sustained by the highest court
of the state, was a final judgment, although it did not
of itself command action but like the certification here
was enforcible in law only by another proceeding.6
We think that is the correct view. The fact that Wisconsin's certification was not in the form of a command
4 See § 111.05 (4), supra, note 2; Rydahl's Launderers & Cleaners,
Wis. E. R. B. Decision No. 677 (1944); UAW-CIO and Four Wheel
Drive Auto Co., Wis. E. R. B. Decision No. 687 (1944); cf. AUA
and Garton Toy Co., Wis. E. R. B. Decision No. 1238 (1947); Killingsworth, State Labor Relations Acts 161-62 (1948).
5 See In re United Brotherhood of Carpenters & Jozners, 2 L. R.
R. M. 894 (Wis. County Cir. Ct., 1938); In re Charles Abresch Co.,
3 L. R. R. M. 639 (Wis. E. R. B. Decision No. 744, 1938); cf. Wisconsin Board v. Hall Garage Corp., 18 L. R. R. M. 2419 (Wis. County
Cir. Ct., 1946).
6In Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp. v. Kelley, supra, suit had been
brought in the state court for a declaratory judgment to restrain

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

is immaterial. See American Federation of Labor v.
Labor Board, 308 U. S. 401, 408. It was not an abstract
determination of status. Nor was it merely an interim
adjudication in an uncompleted administrative process.
It established legal rights and relationships. It told the
employer, subject to judicial review, with whom he could
not refuse to negotiate without risk of sanctions. The
character of the certification was therefore such as to
make it reviewable under the appropriate standards for
exercise of the federal judicial power.
Second. The Wisconsin Supreme Court concluded that
the Wisconsin Board could exercise jurisdiction here until
and unless the National Board undertook to determine
the appropriate bargaining representative or unit of representation of these employees. That view was urged
on us in the like cases coming here under a New York
statute. In Bethlehem Steel Co. v. New York Labor Relations Board, supra, at 776, we rejected that argument,
saying:
"The State argues for a rule that would enable
it to act until the federal board had acted in the
same case. But we do not think that a case by case
test of federal supremacy is permissible here."
the state labor board from determining a representative of plaintiff's
supervisory employees to bargain collectively with the plaintiff.
Under New York law the labor board had authority to hold elections
to determine employee representation and to certify the results. 30
McKinney's Cons. Laws § 705. Certification in itself, as in the instant case, did not impose a legal penalty. Suit had to be brought
in an unfair labor practice proceeding to accomplish such result.
30 Ibid. § 706. Refusal to bargain with the representative of the
employees was an unfair labor practice. 30 Ibid. § 704 (6). Even
though the New York law did not state, as does the Wisconsin law,
that certification by the board was conclusive, we considered a
decision of the New York court approving the jurisdiction of the
state board to conduct a representative proceeding a final judgment
ripe for our consideration.

LA CROSSE TEL. CORP. v. WIS. BOARD.
18

25

Opinion of the Court.

We went on to poinit out that the National Board had
jurisdiction of the industry in which those particular
employers were engaged and had asserted control of their
labor relations in general. Both the state and the federal
statutes had laid hold of the same relationship and had
provided different standards for its regulation. Since the
employers in question were subject to regulation by the
National Board, we thought the situation too fraught
with potential conflict to permit the intrusion of the state
agency, even though the National Board had not acted
in the particular cases before us.
Those considerations control the present cases. This
employer is concededly engaged in interstate commerce;
and the industry is one over which the National Board
has consistently exercised jurisdiction.' The Wisconsin
Act provides that a majority of employees in a single
craft, division, department or plant of an employer may
elect to constitute that group a separate bargaining unit.
§ 111.02 (6). The federal act leaves that matter to the
discretion of the board.8 When under those circumstances the state board puts its imprimatur on a particular
group as the collective bargaining agent of employees, it
freezes into a pattern that which the federal act has left

I See Elyria Telephone Co., 58 N. L. R. B. 402; Newark Telephone
Co., 59 N. L. R. B. 1408; People's Telephone Corp., 69 N. L. R. B.
540; Ohio Telephone Service Co., 72 N. L. R. B. 488.
The appellant company operates a telephone business in La Crosse
County, Wisconsin. It is a subsidiary of the Central Telephone Co.,
whose subsidiaries operate telephone businesses in many states. The
concession that the company is engaged in interstate commerce is
based on the interstate telephone calls which it handles.
8 "The Board shall decide in each case whether, in order to insure
to employees the full benefit of their right to self-organization and
to collective bargaining, and otherwise to effectuate the policies of
this Act, the unit appropriate for the purposes of collective bargaining
shall be the employer unit, craft unit, plant unit, or subdivision
thereof."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

fluid.'

336 U. S.

In practical effect the true measure of conflict

between the state and federal scheme of regulation may
not be found only in the collision between the formal orders that the two boards may issue. We know that
administrative practice also disposes of cases in which no
order has been entered. Disposition of controversies on
an administrative as distinguished from a formal basis
will often reflect the attitudes of the National Board
which have not been reduced to orders in those specific
cases. A certification by a state board under a different
or conflicting theory of representation may therefore be
as readily disruptive of the practice under the federal act
as if the orders of the two boards made a head-on collision.
These are the very real potentials of conflict which lead
us to allow supremacy " to the federal scheme even though
it has not yet been applied in any formal way to this particular employer. The problem of employee representation is a sensitive and delicate one in industrial relations.
The uncertainty as to which board is master and how
long it will remain such can be as disruptive of peace
between various industrial factions as actual competition
between two boards for supremacy. We are satisfied with
the wisdom of the policy underlying the Bethlehem case
and adhere to it.
The result we have reached is not changed by the Labor
Management Relations Act of 1947, 61 Stat. 136, 29
9 Moreover, the Wisconsin Act excludes from the definition of
employee those working in a supervisory capacity. § 111.02 (3).
They were, however, included under the protection of the federal
act as then written. Packard Motor Co. v. Labor Board, 330 U. S.
485. The definition of employee under the Wisconsin Act also excludes certain strikers and others who have not been at work for
certain periods. § 111.02 (3). These latter exceptions likewise do
not in the main square with the definition of employee contained in
§ 2 (3) of the federal act.
10 U. S. Const. Art. VI.

LA CROSSE TEL. CORP. v. WIS. BOARD.
18

27

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. C. Supp. I, §§ 141 et seq. That Act grants the
National Board authority under specified conditions to
cede its jurisdiction to a state agency.1 But it does not
appear that there has been any cession of jurisdiction
to Wisconsin by the National Board in representation
proceedings.12
Reversed.
having joined in the dissent
in Bethlehem Steel Co. v. New York Labor Relations
Board, 330 U. S. 767, see p. 777, acquiesces in the Court's
opinion and judgment in this case.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE,

11 Section 10 (a) of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended,
now provides in part: "the Board is empowered by agreement with
any agency of any State or Territory to cede to such agency jurisdiction over any cases in any industry (other than mining, manufacturing, communications, and transportation except where predominantly local in character) even though such cases may involve labor
disputes affecting commerce, unless the provision of the State or
Territorial statute applicable to the determination of such cases
by such agency is inconsistent with the corresponding provision of
this Act or has received a construction inconsistent therewith."
12 The agreement of August 27, 1948, between the National Board
and the Wisconsin Board is restricted to the implementation of
§ 14 (b) of the federal act. See 22 L. R. R. 268.

