T. W. A. v. CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD.

601

Syllabus.

TRANSCONTINENTAL & WESTERN AIR, INC. v.
CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 387.

Argued February 8-9, 1949.-Decided April 18, 1949.

1. The Civil Aeronautics Board is without authority, under the Civil
Aeronautics Act of 1938 as amended, to fix a new mail rate for
air carriers and to make it retroactive for a period in which a final
rate previously fixed by the Board was in effect and unchallenged
by the initiation of the mail rate proceeding. Pp. 602-608.
2. Section 406 (a) of the Act, which empowers the Board to fix rates
for the transportation of mail by aircraft and "to make such rates
effective from such date as it shall determine to be proper," is
not to be construed as authorizing the Board to make a rate retroactive to a date earlier than the date of the commencement of the
rate proceeding. Pp. 604-607.
83 U. S. App. D. C. 358, 169 F. 2d 893, affirmed.

A petition to the Civil Aeronautics Board by an air
transport company to fix a new rate for the transportation of mail was dismissed insofar as the petition sought to
have the new rate made retroactive to a date earlier than
the date of the petition. 8 C. A. B. 685. The Court of
Appeals affirmed. 83 U. S. App. D. C. 358, 169 F. 2d
893. This Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 884. Affirmed, p. 608.

Gerald B. Brophy argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Charles Pickett and Joseph
S. Iseman.
Emory T. Nunneley, Jr. argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Perlman, Stanley M. Silverberg and Warren L. Sharfman.
Charles H. Murchison filed a brief for Capital Airlines,
Inc., as amicus curiae, urging reversal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question in this case is whether the Civil Aeronautics Board has authority to fix a new mail rate for
air carriers and to make it retroactive for a period in
which a final rate previously fixed by the Board was in
effect and unchallenged by the initiation of a mail rate
proceeding. The answer turns primarily on the meaning
of § 406 (a) of the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938 as
amended, 52 Stat. 998, 49 U. S. C. § 486 (a), which empowers the Board to fix and determine the fair and reasonable rates of compensation for the transportation of
mail by aircraft and "to make such rates effective from
such date as it shall determine to be proper .
1 Section

406 provides:

"(a) The Authority is empowered and directed, upon its own
initiative or upon petition of the Postmaster General or an air carrier,
(1) to fix and determine from time to time, after notice and hearing,
the fair and reasonable rates of compensation for the transportation
of mail by aircraft, the facilities used and useful therefor, and the
services connected therewith (including the transportation of mail
by an air carrier by other means than aircraft whenever such transportation is incidental to the transportation of mail by aircraft or
is made necessary by conditions of emergency arising from aircraft
operation), by each holder of a certificate authorizing the transportation of mail by aircraft, and to make such rates effective from
such date as it shall determine to be proper; (2) to prescribe the
method or methods, by aircraft-mile, pound-mile, weight, space, or
any combination thereof, or otherwise, for ascertaining such rates
of compensation for each air carrier or class of air carriers; and
(3) to publish the same; and the rates so fixed and determined
shall be paid by the Postmaster General from appropriations for
the transportation of mail by aircraft.
"(b) In fixing and determining fair and reasonable rates of compensation under this section, the Authority, considering the conditions peculiar to transportation by aircraft and to the particular
air carrier or class of air carriers, may fix different rates for different

T. W. A. v. CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD.
601

603

Opinion of the Court.

The Board in an order dated October 26, 1945, fixed
a mail rate of 45 cents per mail ton-mile for petitioner.!
From that date until March 14, 1947, petitioner was
paid at that rate for its air carrier services. During
that time no action was taken by petitioner or by the
government to initiate a change in that rate. On March
14, 1947, petitioner filed a petition with the Board alleging that its mail rate had not been fair and reasonable since January 1, 1946, and requesting the Board to
fix a fair and reasonable rate "from and after January
1, 1946." After hearing, the Board by a divided vote
ruled that it had no authority to fix a mail rate for a
period prior to March 14, 1947, and dismissed the petition insofar as it sought that relief. 8 C. A. B. 685. The
Court of Appeals affirmed the order of the Board. 83
U. S. App. D. C. 358, 169 F. 2d 893. The case is here
on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted
because of the importance of the question to the carriers
and public alike.
air carriers or classes of air carriers, and different classes of service.
In determining the rate in each case, the Authority shall take into
consideration, among other factors, the condition that such air carriers may hold and operate under certificates authorizing the carriage
of mail only by providing necessary and adequate facilities and
service for the transportation of mail; such standards respecting
the character and quality of service to be rendered by air carriers
as may be prescribed by or pursuant to law; and the need of each
such air carrier for compensation for the transportation of mail
sufficient to insure the performance of such service, and, together
with all other revenue of the air carrier, to enable such air carrier
under honest, economical, and efficient management, to maintain
and continue the development of air transportation to the extent
and of the character and quality required for the commerce of the
United States, the Postal Service, and the national defense."
The Civil Aeronautics Board took the place of the Authority on
June 30, 1940. See 54 Stat. 1235.
2 See 6 C. A. B. 595.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

The language of § 406 (a), which empowers the Board
to "fix and determine" after notice and hearing "the fair
and reasonable rates of compensation" for the transportation of mail by aircraft,' reads like a typical public utility
rate-making authority. Both subdivisions (a) and (b)
of § 406, to be sure, reflect some characteristics of ratemaking which are peculiar to air carriers. That is true
of the methods specified in § 406 (a) for ascertaining
the rates of compensation-"aircraft-mile, pound-mile,
weight, space, or any combination thereof, or otherwise . . . ." Special standards for rate-making are also
prescribed. The Board is authorized to consider "the
conditions peculiar to transportation by aircraft and to
the particular air carrier or class of air carriers" in fixing
different rates for different air carriers or classes of air
carriers and different classes of service. § 406 (b). And
the Board in determining the rate is authorized and
directed to consider "the need of each such air carrier
for compensation for the transportation of mail sufficient
to insure the performance of such service, and, together
with all other revenue of the air carrier, to enable such
air carrier under honest, economical, and efficient management, to maintain and continue the development of
air transportation to the extent and of the character
and quality required for the commerce of the United
States, the Postal Service, and the national defense."
§ 406 (b).
Considerable reliance is placed on this last provision
for the view that the Board has authority under the "make
effective" clause to order such retroactive adjustments of
rates as the "need" of the air carrier makes appropriate.
But such a standard has its counterparts in other legislation dealing with rate-making 4 and does not necessarily
3 See note 1, supra.
4 See § 1 of Title I of the Transportation Act of 1940, 54 Stat.
899, 49 U. S. C., note prior to § 1: "It is hereby declared to be the

T. W. A. v. CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD.
601

605

Opinion of the Court.

mark a departure from the customary pattern of fixing
rates prospectively. Yet, unless we found a congressional purpose to make a radical break with tradition,
we would be most reluctant to give the "make effective"
clause the broad meaning which petitioner urges. For
the rates of carriers and other utilities fixed by public
authorities, while usually prospective, are sometimes
made retroactive to the date of the commencement of
the rate-making proceeding. See United States v. New
York Central R. Co., 279 U. S. 73. But, so far as we
are aware, they have never been retroactive to an earlier
date.
The language of the Act does not suggest that Congress intended to break with these traditions of ratemaking.' Moreover, the legislative history indicates that
the "make effective" clause was inserted only to make
clear that the rates could be made retroactive to the
date of the application.' Finally the scheme of the Act
national transportation policy of the Congress to provide for fair
and impartial regulation of all modes of transportation subject to
the provisions of this Act . . . to . . . foster sound economic conditions in transportation and among the several carriers; . . . all
to the end of developing, coordinating, and preserving a national
transportation system by water, highway, and rail, as well as other
means, adequate to meet the needs of the commerce of the United
States, of the Postal Service, and of the national defense. All of the
provisions of this Act shall be administered and enforced with a view
to carrying out the above declaration of policy."
5 The other rate-making provisions of the Act likewise follow the
conventional pattern. See § 1002 (d) and (e).
The Interstate Commerce Commission in its administration of
the Air Mail Act of 1934 as amended, 48 Stat. 933, 935, 49 Stat.
614, 616, had asserted the power to make its orders effective as
of the date of initiation of the proceeding. But there was a sharp
divergence of views within the Commission over its authority to
do so. See Air Mail Compensation, 216 I. C. C. 166, 222 I. C. C.
602. The congressional committees seemed primarily concerned with
that problem in their consideration of the "make effective" clause

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

and its underlying policy seem to us to preclude the more
expansive reading of the clause urged on us by petitioner.
Petitioner's reading of the Act would in practical effect
have the tendency to transform it into a cost-plus system
of regulation, a construction which would not harmonize
with the apparent design of the Act. Thus § 406 (b)
authorizes the Board to fix rates for "classes of air carriers." ' It is plain that the uniform rate for the class
is an important regulatory device. For § 2 (d) of the
Act looks to the sound development of an air transportation system through competition.' A uniform rate
forces carriers within a given class to compete in securin the bills which preceded the ones resulting in the Act. See Senate
Hearings, Committee on Interstate Commerce, on S. 2 and S. 1760,
75th Cong., 1st Sess. 179, 180, 239, 291, 343, 483-485, 523. And
see H. R. Hearings, Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,
on H. R. 5234 and H. R. 4652, 75th Cong., 1st Sess. 325-327. The
policy of adhering to conventional rate-making is suggested by
H. R. Rep. No. 911, 75th Cong., 1st Sess. 18, and by the statements
of Senator Truman who was in charge of the bill in the Senate.
81 Cong. Rec. 9202, 9203, 9204.
This history is relevant to our problem, for though it relates to
the 1937 bill which was not passed, the "make effective" clause crystallized at that time and appeared in the 1938 bill which was enacted.
The Conference Report on the latter bill is silent on the "make
effective" clause, though the following passage from it, H. R. Rep.
No. 2635, 75th Cong., 3d Sess. 71-72, by its brief exposition of the
power conferred suggests that Congress did not depart from the
conventional pattern of rate-making when it enacted the measure:
"This section [§ 406] empowers the Authority to fix mail rates and
sets forth the congressional policy to guide the Authority in fixing
such rates and enables the Authority to adjust rates so that the
policy of Congress may be properly carried out in the case of each
carrier or class of carriers according to the needs of the particular
case."
7 § 406 (b) supra,note 1.
8 Section 2 provides:
"In the exercise and performance of its powers and duties under
this Act, the [Board] shall consider the following, among other

T. W. A. v. CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD.

607

Opinion of the Court.

601

ing revenue and in reducing or controlling costs. If
the Board had authority on the basis of the carrier's
needs to make rates retroactive to any point of time,
there would be a powerful incentive to seek relief from
the uniform rate, not to live within it.
In sum a construction which would make it possible to
revise rates retroactively to any point of time would be a
real innovation which should have a more solid basis than
our own predilections. We cannot but feel that if the
rate-making power were to be put to such a novel use,
the purpose would have been made clear. It is too
unprecedented a departure from the conventions of ratemaking to rest on mere inference.
It is pointed out that the Board apparently considers
past operating losses in fixing rates 9 and that therefore
it is a matter of no great consequence if the rates are
things, as being in the public interest, and in accordance with the
public convenience and necessity"(d) Competition to the extent necessary to assure the sound
development of an air-transportation system properly adapted to
the needs of the foreign and domestic commerce of the United States,
of the Postal Service, and of the national defense . .. .
9 After the present case was argued in this Court, the Civil Aeronautics Board, on February 21, 1949, awarded a temporary mail
rate increase to TWA effective March 14, 1947, to compensate it
for losses sustained prior thereto as the result of grounding the
Constellation aircraft. American Airlines, Inc., et al., Mail Rate
Increases, C. A. B. Docket No. 2849, Serial No. E-2484 (Feb. 21,
1949). That action does not render the present case moot, for the
new temporary mail rate covers only a part of the losses on the basis
of which a rate increase was sought here. Nor do we have in this
case any question concerning the power of the Board over temporary, as distinguished from final, mail rates. See Essair, Inc.,
Temporary Mail Rate, 6 C. A. B. 687, 690-691; In the Matter of
National Airlines, Inc., C. A. B. Docket No. 3037, Serial No. E-1271,
March 5, 1948.
823978 0-49-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

made retroactive to one date rather than another. But
the power to fix rates to recoup past losses is a distinct
question not before us.
Affirmed.
took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.

The Civil Aeronautics Board asks us to hold that it
is denied by its organic Act any power retroactively to
fix rates for carrying air mail. It has not convinced me
that it has no power, whatever it should wisely do with
it as matter of policy.
The fundamental premise of the Court's opinion is
that the function of the Board in fixing the air-mail
rate is analogous to rate-making for a railroad or a public
utility. The two types of rates are not comparable.
"Rate" as applied to the Government's air-mail payments
is an euphemism to embrace a subsidy as well as compensation. The statute requires the Board, in fixing the
"rate" for transportation of mail, to take into consideration the "need of each such air carrier for compensation . . . to insure the performance of such service, . . .
and to enable such air carrier . . . to maintain and continue the development of air transportation to the extent
and of the character and quality required for the commerce of the United States, the Postal Service, and the
national defense." § 406 (b). These considerations are
inappropriate in applying ordinary utility rate-making
principles. Moreover, utility rates apply to a multitude
of customers; the air-mail rate is paid by only one-the
Government. Utility services must be paid for currently; air-mail payments can be and are being paid in
lump sums on account of items long past.

T. W. A. v. CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD.
601

JACKSON,

609

J., dissenting.

Congress, in the Act before us, set up a scheme for
dealing with each according to its separate nature. The
rate for public carriage of passengers and goods by air
lines, of course, cannot be fixed retroactively on the basis
of experience, for the public must know at the time they
take service what they are to pay for it and the carrier
must collect then or never. The Act recognizes this
necessity with respect to passengers and cargo. Rates
for transporting them are required by § 403 to be embodied in filed and published tariffs, which may be
altered only after hearing and notice and only prospectively. Section 1002 provides that the Board may institute proceedings to modify these rates and may, after
prescribed procedures, set the rates thereafter to be
charged. Thus, when Congress was dealing with utility
rates for passengers and shippers, it permitted only
prospective changes, and said so.
But Congress believed that, in the interest of the
national defense and commercial aviation, it had to subsidize pioneering air lines and underwrite revenues above
those to be realized from passenger and cargo carriage.
A feasible way to do it was through air-mail payments.
Its plan to that effect was detailed in § 406. But as
to this subsidy rate, it enacted no prohibition against
retroactivity and, if it had, it is difficult to see how the
Board would have authority to go back even to the date
of the petition. On the contrary, however, § 406 (a)
empowers and directs the Board to determine the airmail rate and "to make such rates effective from such
date as it shall determine to be proper." I see no justification for holding that this language means anything
less than just what it says, or for holding that two such
opposite kinds of payments must be governed by identical
rules.
The Civil Aeronautics Board, however, asks us to hold
that the same rules as to retrospective rates are "appli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

cable equally to mail, passenger and property rates under
the Act." It urges that its provisions do not "convert
the Board's primary function of fixing rates of compensation for the future into a duty to award amounts of
compensation for the past" and that, if it sets too low
a rate, "the carrier has no redress save a new hearing
and the fixing of a more adequate rate for the future."
It contends for application of decisions by which this
Court "has refused to require the capitalization of past
losses in the rate base for the purpose of fixing future
rates" or to allow "current reimbursement out of new
rates of deficiencies arising from a failure to earn a reasonable return in past years, or the capitalization of costs
of maintaining excess capacity during the early period
of operation." And the Board argued that it has adhered
to such rules and advances policy reasons why we should
hold that it is without power to do otherwise.
I have not been able to reconcile the position which
the Board took before this Court at its argument on
February 8 and 9 with what appears to be its almost
contemporaneous action. On February 21, 1949, the
Board handed down an order in which it allowed to this
very petitioner, in a lump sum, $2,748,000 for the period
July 14, 1947, to December 31, 1948, and $33,333 in
a lump sum each month thereafter. It said, "The above
payments for each of these carriers are in addition to,
and not inclusive of, the mail rates provided for in previous temporary or final mail rate orders, for the respective periods stated." (Emphasis supplied.) The TWA
lump sum of $2,748,000 was to make them whole for
the year 1948 and also to pay their "grounding losses"
for 1946, a year prior to the filing of its petition, which
the Board asks us to hold as the limit of backward operation of rates. The Board said:
"In 1946, TWA incurred substantial costs because
of the grounding of the Constellation aircraft. Sim-

T. W. A. v. CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD.
601

JACKSON,

611

J., dissenting.

ilar costs were incurred by United and American in
1947 and 1948 when the DC-6 was grounded. These
costs are merely another form of developmental
costs attributable to the introduction of a new aircraft type. It is clear that they are, in these cases,
of such magnitude as to impose a financial burden
upon the carriers of such severity as to obstruct their
current development. Under our statutory mandate
to develop air transportation we should underwrite
such costs in some appropriate manner."
At the same time the Board issued a statement of
policy. As to the grounding costs which the Board had
argued to this Court it had no power to reimburse retroactively, it said that it had originally felt they would
not be high enough to require special mail-pay allowance
for their "reimbursement." But it continued: "Experience has not supported this view" and it is "desirable
to make special mail-rate provision for established losses
of this character." It announced that this petitioner,
among others, is being paid for grounding losses. "In
addition, in view of its obligations under Section 406(b)
of the Act, discussed above, the Board has concluded that
the temporary mail rates for United and TWA should
be increased to an extent sufficient to meet the remainder
of their approximate breakeven needs for the year 1948.
With respect to the entire retroactive period and the
future, the Board will determine final rates after formal
proceedings which will give consideration to the full
reasonable requirements of these two carriers." (Emphasis supplied.)
What I get from the Board's orders and statements is
that it is acting in a spirit completely contrary to its
argument to this Court and to this Court's opinion, even
if there may be a technical consistency, which I doubt.
It appears to have authorized capitalization of losses for
periods before any rate petition was filed and the amorti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

zation of those losses from subsidy payments afterward.
I find far less statutory authorization for such a device
for carrying losses forward into current rates than for
forthright fixing of effective rates from such prior date
as shall be proper. If the need for retroactivity is so
imperative that it must be met by evasion, the policy
arguments of the Board against construing the statute
to permit retroactivity fail. I do not know that these
matters of policy should influence the Court in any event,
but if they do, my own predilections, unlike the Court's,
favor fixing the subsidy on experience rather than on
prophecy. In the light of what appears to be the practice, I see no reason why the statute should not be applied so as to carry out what its language conveys and
why the subsidy rates should not be regarded as always
tentative and subject to revision either to meet unforeseen
contingencies or to recapture excessive payments. The
Commission would no more be bound to reimburse extravagant management or improvident outlay after it has
occurred than to allow for it in advance. In fact, excessive expense would probably be easier to detect in actual
statements of operations than in estimates.
But if I were to consider accepting the Board's argument, I would at least set this case for reargument and
require a candid explanation of what appears to be a

material discrepancy between what the Board has led
this Court to hold and the premises on which it seems
actually to be proceeding.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER joins in this opinion.

