HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
Syllabus.

H. P. HOOD & SONS, INC. v. Du MOND, COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE AND MARKETS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK, ALBANY
COUNTY.

No. 92.

Argued December 13-14, 1948.-Decided April 4, 1949.

Petitioner, a distributor of milk in Massachusetts operating three
receiving plants licensed under the Agriculture & Markets Law of
New York, applied to the New York Commissioner for a license
for an additional plant. The application was denied on the grounds
that the proposed expansion of petitioner's facilities would reduce
the supply of milk for local markets and would result in destructive competition in a market already adequately served. Held:
The New York law, so applied, violates the Commerce Clause of
the Federal Constitution. Pp. 526-545.
1. A State may not promote its own local economic advantages
by curtailing the volume of interstate commerce. Pp. 530-539.
2. The fact that petitioner is licensed to operate its existing plants
without condition or limitation as to the quantities of milk it may
purchase, does not justify denial of the license for an additional
plant. Pp. 539-540.
3. The State's denial of the license on the grounds assigned is
not consistent with nor authorized by the Federal Agricultural
Marketing Agreement Act. Pp. 540-545.
297 N. Y. 209, 78 N. E. 2d 476, reversed.

Petitioner's application for an extension of its license
under the New York Agriculture & Markets Law was
denied by the State Commissioner, whose action was
affirmed by the New York Court of Appeals over objections to its validity under the Commerce Clause of the
Federal Constitution. 297 N. Y. 209, 78 N. E. 2d 476.
This Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 808. Reversed,
p. 545.
Warren F. Farr argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

NathanielL. Goldstein, Attorney General of New York,
and Robert G. Blabey submitted on brief for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case concerns the power of the State of New York
to deny additional facilities to acquire and ship milk in
interstate commerce where the grounds of denial are that
such limitation upon interstate business will protect and
advance local economic interests.
H. P. Hood & Sons, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation,
has long distributed milk and its products to inhabitants
of Boston. That city obtains about 90% of its fluid milk
from states other than Massachusetts. Dairies located in
New York State since about 1900 have been among the
sources of Boston's supply, their contribution having
varied but during the last ten years approximating 8%.
The area in which Hood has been denied an additional
license to make interstate purchases has been developed
as a part of the Boston milkshed from which both the
Hood Company and a competitor have shipped to Boston.
The state courts have held and it is conceded here that
Hood's entire business in New York, present and proposed,
is interstate commerce. This Hood has conducted for
some time by means of three receiving depots, where it
takes raw milk from farmers. The milk is not processed in
New York but is weighed, tested and, if necessary, cooled
and on the same day shipped as fluid milk to Boston.
These existing plants have been operated under license
from the State and are not in question here as the State
has licensed Hood to continue them. The controversy
concerns a proposed additional plant for the same kind
of operation at Greenwich, New York.1
New York Court of Appeals described the geographical
situation with respect to petitioner's present and proposed plants
1 The

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

527

Opinion of the Court.

Article 21 of the Agriculture and Markets Law of New
York ' forbids a dealer to buy milk from producers unless
licensed to do so by the Commissioner of Agriculture and
Markets. For the license he must pay a substantial fee
and furnish a bond to assure prompt payment to producers for milk. Under § 258, the Commissioner may not
grant a license unless satisfied "that the applicant is qualified by character, experience, financial responsibility and
equipment to properly conduct the proposed business."
The Hood Company concededly has met all the foregoing tests and license for an additional plant was not
denied for any failure to comply with these requirements.
as follows: "The extension would have permitted petitioner to operate
a milk receiving plant at Greenwich, New York, in addition to
petitioner's other similar plants already licensed and operating at
Eagle Bridge, Salem and Norfolk, in this State. Eagle Bridge is

in Rensselaer County and Salem and Greenwich are in Washington
County, Rensselaer County being adjacent to Washington County
on the south, and both these counties being on the easterly edge
of New York State, bordering on Massachusetts and Vermont.
Petitioner's Norfolk establishment is in St. Lawrence County in
another part of New York State, and serves a different area and
a different group of milk producers. The present Eagle Bridge
and Salem depots, however, are quite close together and the proposed Greenwich plant, for which a license has been refused, is
ten miles from Salem and twelve miles from Eagle Bridge." 297
N. Y. 209, 212; 78 N. E. 2d 476, 477.
2 Laws of 1934, c. 126.
3 Section 258-c provides in pertinent part as follows:
"No license shall be granted to a person not now engaged in
business as a milk dealer except for the continuation of a now
existing business, and no license shall be granted to authorize the
extension of an existing business by the operation of an additional
plant or other new or additional facility, unless the commissioner
is satisfied that the applicant is qualified by character, experience,
financial responsibility and equipment to properly conduct the proposed business, that the issuance of the license will not tend to a
destructive competition in a market already adequately served, and
that the issuance of the license is in the public interest ..
823978 0-49---38

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

The Commissioner's denial was based on further provisions of this section which require him to be satisfied
"that the issuance of the license will not tend to a destructive competition in a market already adequately served,
and that the issuance of the license is in the public
interest."
Upon the hearing pursuant to the statute, milk dealers
competing with Hood as buyers in the area opposed
licensing the proposed Greenwich plant. They complained that Hood, by reason of conditions under which
it sold in Boston, had competitive advantages under
applicable federal milk orders, Boston health regulations,
and OPA ceiling prices. There was also evidence of a
temporary shortage of supply in the Troy, New York
market during the fall and winter of 1945-46. The Commissioner was urged not to allow Hood to compete for
additional supplies of milk or to take on producers then
delivering to other dealers.
The Commissioner found that Hood, if licensed at
Greenwich, would permit its present suppliers, at their
option, to deliver at the new plant rather than the old
ones and for a substantial number this would mean
shorter hauls and savings in delivery costs. The new
plant also would attract twenty to thirty producers, some
of whose milk Hood anticipates will or may be diverted
from other buyers. Other large milk distributors have
plants within the general area and dealers serving Troy
obtain milk in the locality. He found that Troy was
inadequately supplied during the preceding short season.
In denying the application for expanded facilities, the
Commissioner states his grounds as follows:
"If applicant is permitted to equip and operate
another milk plant in this territory, and to take on
producers now delivering to plants other than those
which it operates, it will tend to reduce the volume
of milk received at the plants which lose those pro-

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

Opinion of the Court.

ducers, and will tend to increase the cost of handling
milk in those plants.
"If applicant takes producers now delivering milk
to local markets such as Troy, it will have a tendency
to deprive such markets of a supply needed during
the short season.
"There is no evidence that any producer is without
a market for his milk. There is no evidence that
any producers not now delivering milk to applicant
would receive any higher price, were they to deliver
their milk to applicant's proposed plant.
"The issuance of a license to applicant which
would permit it to operate an additional plant, would
tend to a destructive competition in a market already
adequately served, and would not be in the public
interest." I
Denial of the license was sustained by the Court of
Appeals ' over constitutional objections duly urged under
the Commerce Clause 6 and, because of the importance
of the questions involved, we brought the case here by
certiorari.7
Production and distribution of milk are so intimately
related to public health and welfare that the need for
regulation to protect those interests has long been recognized and is, from a constitutional standpoint, hardly
controversial. Also, the economy of the industry is so
eccentric that economic controls have been found at once
necessary and difficult. These have evolved detailed, intricate and comprehensive regulations, including pricefixing. They have been much litigated but were generally sustained by this Court as within the powers of
This finding follows the statutory language. See Note 3.
5 297 N. Y. 209, 78 N. E. 2d 476.
6 U. S. Const., Art. I, § 8, cl. 3, granting Congress power "To
regulate Commerce . . . among the several States ...
"
7 335 U. S. 808.
4

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

the State over its internal commerce as against the
claim that they violated the Fourteenth Amendment.8
Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502; Hegeman Farms
Corp. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 163; Borden's Co. v. Ten Eyck,
297 U. S. 251. But see Mayflower Farms v. Ten Eyck,
297 U. S. 266. As the states extended their efforts to
control various phases of export and import also, questions were raised as to limitations on state power under
the Commerce Clause of the Constitution.
Pennsylvania enacted a law including provisions to protect producers which were very similar to those of this
New York Act. A concern which operated a receiving
plant in Pennsylvania from which it shipped milk to the
New York City market challenged the Act upon grounds
thus defined by this Court: "The respondent contends
that the act, if construed to require it to obtain a license,
to file a bond for the protection of producers, and to pay
the farmers the prices prescribed by the Board, unconstitutionally regulates and burdens interstate commerce."
Milk Board v. Eisenberg Co., 306 U. S. 346, 350. This
Court, specifically limiting its judgment to the Act's provisions with respect to license, bond and regulation of
prices to be paid to producers, id. at 352, considered their
effect on interstate commerce "incidental and not forbidden by the Constitution, in the absence of regulation
by Congress." Id. at 353.
The present controversy begins where the Eisenberg
decision left off. New York's regulations, designed to
assure producers a fair price and a responsible purchaser,
and consumers a sanitary and modernly equipped handler, are not challenged here but have been complied
with. It is only additional restrictions, imposed for the
avowed purpose and with the practical effect of curtailing
nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
8 "...

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

Opinion of the Court.

the volume of interstate commerce to aid local economic
interests, that are in question here, and no such measures
were attempted or such ends sought to be served in the
Act before the Court in the Eisenberg case.'
Our decision in a milk litigation most relevant to the
present controversy deals with the converse of the present
situation. Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S. 511. In that
case, New York placed conditions and limitations on the
local sale of milk imported from Vermont designed in
practical effect to exclude it, while here its order proposes
to limit the local facilities for purchase of additional milk
so as to withhold milk from export. The State agreed
then, as now, that the Commerce Clause prohibits it from
directly curtailing movement of milk into or out of the
State. But in the earlier case, it contended that the same
result could be accomplished by controlling delivery, bottling and sale after arrival, while here it says it can do
so by curtailing facilities for its purchase and receipt before it is shipped out. In neither case is the measure
supported by health or safety considerations but solely
by protection of local economic interests, such as supply for local consumption and limitation of competition.
This Court unanimously rejected the State's contention
in the Seelig case and held that the Commerce Clause,
even in the absence of congressional action, prohibits such
regulations for such ends.
The opinion was by Mr. Justice Cardozo, experienced in
the milk problems of New York and favorably disposed
toward the efforts of the State to control the industry.
Heqeman Farms Corp. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 163; Borden's
Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, concurrence at 213; Mayflower Farms v. Ten Eyck, 297 U. S. 266, dissent at 274.
It recognized, as do we, broad power in the State to pro9

The Court said: "The Commonwealth [of Pennsylvania] does
not essay to regulate or to restrain the shipment of the respondent's
milk into New York . . . ." 306 U. S. 346, 352.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

tect its inhabitants against perils to health or safety,
fraudulent traders and highway hazards, even by use of
measures which bear adversely upon interstate commerce.
But it laid repeated emphasis upon the principle that
the State may not promote its own economic advantages
by curtailment or burdening of interstate commerce.
The Constitution, said Mr. Justice Cardozo for the
unanimous Court, "was framed upon the theory that the
peoples of the several states must sink or swim together,
and that in the long run prosperity and salvation are in
union and not division." "o He reiterated that the economic objective, as distinguished from any health, safety
and fair-dealing purpose of the regulation, was the root
of its invalidity. The action of the State would "neutralize the economic consequences of free trade among the
states." " "Such a power, if exerted, will set a barrier
to traffic between one state and another as effective as
if customs duties, equal to the price differential, had been
laid upon the thing transported." 12 "If New York, in
order to promote the economic welfare of her farmers,
may guard them against competition with the cheaper
prices of Vermont, the door has been opened to rivalries
and reprisals that were meant to be averted by subjecting
commerce between the states to the power of the nation." " And again, "Neither the power to tax nor the
police power may be used by the state of destination with
the aim and effect of establishing an economic barrier
against competition with the products of another state or
the labor of its residents. Restrictions so contrived are
an unreasonable clog upon the mobility of commerce.
They set up what is equivalent to a rampart of customs
duties designed to neutralize advantages belonging to the
10 294 U. S. 511, 523.
11 Id., 526.

"Id., 521.
"Id., 522.

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
Opinion of the Court.

525

place of origin. They are thus hostile in conception as
well as burdensome in result.""'
This distinction between the power of the State to shelter its people from menaces to their health or safety and
from fraud, even when those dangers emanate from interstate commerce, and its lack of power to retard, burden
or constrict the flow of such commerce for their economic
advantage, is one deeply rooted in both our history and
our law.
When victory relieved the Colonies from the pressure
for solidarity that war had exerted, a drift toward anarchy
and commercial warfare between states began. ".
each State would legislate according to its estimate of its
own interests, the importance of its own products, and the
local advantages or disadvantages of its position in a political or commercial view." This came "to threaten at
once the peace and safety of the Union." Story, The Constitution, §§ 259, 260. See Fiske, The Critical Period of
American History, 144; Warren, The Making of the Constitution, 567. The sole purpose for which Virginia initiated the movement which ultimately produced the Constitution was "to take into consideration the trade of the
United States; to examine the relative situations and
trade of the said States; to consider how far a uniform
system in their commercial regulations may be necessary
to their common interest and their permanent harmony"
and for that purpose the General Assembly of Virginia
in January of 1786 named commissioners and proposed
their meeting with those from other states. Documents,
Formationof the Union, H. R. Doc. No. 398, 12 H. Docs.,
69th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 38.
The desire of the Forefathers to federalize regulation of
foreign and interstate commerce stands in sharp contrast
to their jealous preservation of the state's power over its
14

Id., 527.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

internal affairs. No other federal power was so universally assumed to be necessary, no other state power was so
readily relinquished. There was no desire to authorize
federal interference with social conditions or legal institutions of the states. Even the Bill of Rights amendments were framed only as a limitation upon the powers
of Congress. The states were quite content with their
several and diverse controls over most matters but, as
Madison has indicated, "want of a general power over
Commerce led to an exercise of this power separately, by
the States, wch [sic] not only proved abortive, but engendered rival, conflicting and angry regulations." 3
Farrand, Records of the Federal Convention, 547.
The necessity of centralized regulation of commerce
among the states was so obvious and so fully recognized
that the few words of the Commerce Clause were little
illuminated by debate. But the significance of the clause
was not lost and its effect was immediate and salutary.
We are told by so responsible an authority as Mr. Jefferson's first appointee to this Court that "there was not a
State in the Union, in which there did not, at that time,
exist a variety of commercial regulations; concerning
which it is too much to suppose, that the whole ground
covered by those regulations was immediately assumed
by actual legislation, under the authority of the Union.
But where was the existing statute on this subject, that
a State attempted to execute? or by what State was it
ever thought necessary to repeal those statutes? By
common consent, those laws dropped lifeless from their
statute books, for want of the sustaining power, that had
been relinquished to Congress." Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, concurring opinion at 226.
The Commerce Clause is one of the most prolific sources
of national power and an equally prolific source of conflict
with legislation of the state. While the Constitution
vests in Congress the power to regulate commerce among

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

Opinion of the Court.

the states, it does not say what the states may or may
not do in the absence of congressional action, nor how to
draw the line between what is and what is not commerce
among the states. Perhaps even more than by interpretation of its written word, this Court has advanced the
solidarity and prosperity of this Nation by the meaning
it has given to these great silences of the Constitution.
Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S. 511, is an explicit, impressive, recent and unanimous condemnation by this
Court of economic restraints on interstate commerce for
local economic advantage, but it does not stand alone.
This Court consistently has rebuffed attempts of states
to advance their own commercial interests by curtailing
the movement of articles of commerce, either into or out
of the state, while generally supporting their right to
impose even burdensome regulations in the interest of
local health and safety. As most states serve their own
interests best by sending their produce to market, the
cases in which this Court has been obliged to deal with
prohibitions or limitations by states upon exports of
articles of commerce are not numerous. However, in a
leading case, Oklahoma v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221
U. S. 229, the Court denied constitutional validity to a
statute by which Oklahoma, by regulation of gas companies and pipe lines, sought to restrict the export of
natural gas. The Court held that when a state recognizes an article to be a subject of commerce, it cannot
prohibit it from being a subject of interstate commerce;
that the right to engage in interstate commerce is not
the gift of a state, and that a state cannot regulate or
restrain it.
Later West Virginia, by act of the Legislature, undertook regulation of pipe-line companies intended to keep
within West Virginia all natural gas there produced that
might be required for local needs. This Court held that
the State could not accord to its own consumers a pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

ferred right of purchase over consumers in other states
and in language applicable to the case before us now
said, "Much of the business is interstate and has grown
up through a course of years. West Virginia encouraged
and sanctioned the development of that part of the
business and has profited greatly by it. Her present
effort, rightly understood, is to subordinate that part to
the local business within her borders. In other words,
it is in effect an attempt to regulate the interstate business to the advantage of the local consumers. But this
she may not do." Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262
U. S. 553, at 597, 598.
In Foster Packing Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S.1, the Court
cited these two cases as authority for the proposition
that "A State is without power to prevent privately
owned articles of trade from being shipped and sold in
interstate commerce on the ground that they are required
to satisfy local demands or because they are needed by
the people of the State." 278 U. S. 1, 10. The Court
also pointed out that "the purpose [of the statute there
involved] is not to retain the shrimp for the use of the
people of Louisiana; it is to favor the canning of the
meat and the manufacture of bran in Louisiana ....
Id., at 13. Thus in the Foster case, and in the companion case Johnson v. Haydel, 278 U. S. 16, although the
articles sought to be regulated were shrimp and oysters,
which under ordinary conditions might not be considered
subjects of commerce, the Court invalidated state enactments attempting to promote local interests at the
expense of interstate commerce.
In Parkerv. Brown, 317 U. S. 341, California's restrictions on sales of raisins within the State to those who
were there processing and packing them were attacked
as invalid because approximately 95% of the crop would
find its way into interstate commerce after processing and
packing. However, the Court said: ". . . no case has

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

Opinion of the Court.

gone so far as to hold that a state could not license or
otherwise regulate the sale of articles within the state
because the buyer, after processing and packing them, will,
in the normal course of business, sell and ship them in interstate commerce. . . . The regulation is thus applied
to transactions wholly intrastate before the raisins are
ready for shipment in interstate commerce." 317 U. S.
341, at 361. This regulation of sale to local processors
was distinguished from those which were held invalid in
Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S.50, and Shafer v.
Farmers Grain Co., 268 U. S.189, because the regulation
in the earlier cases was "of the business of those who
purchased grain within the state for immediate shipment out of it." Ibid. In those cases, the regulation was
of interstate commerce itself. Another element in the
Parker case which led the Court to sustain the California
regulation was that it was one which the policy of Congress was to aid and encourage, and the Secretary of
Agriculture had approved the State program by loans.
The most recent case of this kind, Toomer v. Witsell,
334 U. S. 385, involved, among other things, a South
Carolina requirement that the owners of shrimp boats
fishing off its shores dock at a South Carolina port and
unload, pack and stamp their catch with a tax stamp
before shipping or transporting it to another state. It
was considered that the effect of this section of the statute
was to divert to South Carolina employment and business
which might otherwise go to other states, and the Court
pointed out that "the necessary tendency of the statute
is to impose an artificial rigidity on the economic pattern of the industry." 334 U. S.385, 403-404. It was
held that the Commerce Clause was violated by such a
provision.
This principle that our economic unit is the Nation,
which alone has the gamut of powers necessary to control
of the economy, including the vital power of erecting

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

customs barriers against foreign competition, has as its
corollary that the states are not separable economic
units. As the Court said in Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S.
541, 527, "what is ultimate is the principle that one
state in its dealings with another may not place itself
in a position of economic isolation." In so speaking it
but followed the principle that the state may not use its
admitted powers to protect the health and safety of its
people as a basis for suppressing competition. In Buck
v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307, the Court struck down a
state act because, in the language of Mr. Justice Brandeis, "Its primary purpose is not regulation with a view
to safety or to conservation of the highways, but the
prohibition of competition." The same argument here
advanced, that limitation of competition would itself
contribute to safety and conservation, and therefore indirectly serve an end permissible to the State, was there
declared "not sound." 267 U. S. 307, 315. It is no better
here. This Court has not only recognized this disability
of the state to isolate its own economy as a basis for
striking down parochial legislative policies designed to
do so, but it has recognized the incapacity of the state
to protect its own inhabitants from competition as a reason for sustaining particular exercises of the commerce
power of Congress to reach matters in which states were
so disabled. Cf. Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S.
548; Carmichael v. Southern Coal Co., 301 U. S. 495;
Helvering v. Davis, 301 U. S. 619.
The material success that has come to inhabitants of
the states which make up this federal free trade unit
has been the most impressive in the history of commerce,
but the established interdependence of the states only
emphasizes the necessity of protecting interstate movement of goods against local burdens and repressions.
We need only consider the consequences if each of the
few states that produce copper, lead, high-grade iron ore,

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

Opinion of the Court.

timber, cotton, oil or gas should decree that industries
located in that state shall have priority. What fantastic
rivalries and dislocations and reprisals would ensue if
such practices were begun! Or suppose that the field
of discrimination and retaliation be industry. May
Michigan provide that automobiles cannot be taken out
of that State until local dealers' demands are fully met?
Would she not have every argument in the favor of
such a statute that can be offered in support of New
York's limiting sales of milk for out-of-state shipment
to protect the economic interests of her competing dealers
and local consumers? Could Ohio then pounce upon the
rubber-tire industry, on which she has a substantial grip,
to retaliate for Michigan's auto monopoly?
Our system, fostered by the Commerce Clause, is that
every farmer and every craftsman shall be encouraged
to produce by the certainty that he will have free access
to every market in the Nation, that no home embargoes
will withhold his exports, and no foreign state will by
customs duties or regulations exclude them. Likewise,
every consumer may look to the free competition from
every producing area in the Nation to protect him from
exploitation by any. Such was the vision of the Founders; such has been the doctrine of this Court which
has given it reality.
The State, however, insists that denial of the license
for a new plant does not restrict or obstruct interstate
commerce, because petitioner has been licensed at its other
plants without condition or limitation as to the quantities
it may purchase. Hence, it is said, all that has been denied petitioner is a local convenience-that of being able
to buy and receive at Greenwich quantities of milk it is
free to buy at Eagle Bridge and Salem. It suggests that,
by increased efficiency or enlarged capacity at its other
plants, petitioner might sufficiently increase its supply
through those facilities.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

The weakness of this contention is that a buyer has
to buy where there is a willing seller, and the peculiarities
of the milk business necessitate location of a receiving and
cooling station for nearby producers. The Commissioner
has not made and there is nothing to persuade us that he
could have made findings that petitioner can obtain such
additional supplies through its existing facilities; indeed
he found that "applicant has experienced some difficulty
during the flush season because of the inability of the
plant facilities to handle the milk by 9:00 a. m.," the time
its receipt is required by Boston health authorities unless
it is cooled by the farmer before delivery, and a substantial
part of it is not.
But the argument also asks us to assume that the Commissioner's order will not operate in the way he found that
it would as a reason for making it. He found that petitioner, at its new plant, would divert milk from the plants
of some other large handlers in the vicinity, which plants
"can handle more milk." This competition he did not
approve. He also found it would tend to deprive local
markets of needed supplies during the short season. In
the face of affirmative findings that the proposed plant
would increase petitioner's supply, we can hardly be asked
to assume that denial of the license will not deny petitioner access to such added supplies. While the state
power is applied in this case to limit expansion by a handler of milk who already has been allowed some purchasing facilities, the argument for doing so, if sustained,
would be equally effective to exclude an entirely new
foreign handler from coming into the State to purchase.
The State, however, contends that such restraint or
obstruction as its order imposes on interstatc commerce
does not violate the Commerce Clause because the State
regulation coincides with, supplements and is part of the
federal regulatory scheme. This contention that Congress has taken possession of "the field" but shared it with

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

Opinion of the Court.

the State, it is to be noted, reverses the contention usually
made in comparable cases, which is that Congress has not
fully occupied the field and hence the State may fill the
void.
Congress, as a part of its Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act, 5 authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to
issue orders regulating the handling of several agricultural
products, including milk, when they are within the reach
of its commerce power. As to milk, it sets up, § 8c (5), 7
U. S. C. § 608c (5), a rather complicated system of fixing
prices to be paid to producers through equalization pools
which distribute the total value of all milk sold in a specified market among the producers supplying that market.
This federal regulation was sustained and explained in
United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, 307 U. S.
533; H. P. Hood & Sons v. United States, 307 U. S. 588;
see also Stark v. Wickard, 321 U. S. 288. Section 10 of
the Federal Act 16also authorizes federal officials to engage
in conferences, joint hearings and cooperation with the
state authorities.
New York State, in its present and antecedent statutes,
has authorized its state authorities to confer with federal
officials on milk control problems '" and a series of conferences and joint hearings have been held. The two authorities formalized their collaboration in 1938 by signing a "Memorandum of the Principles of Cooperation to
be Observed in the Formulation and Administration of
Complementary Orders for Milk for Marketing Areas
Located Within the State of New York to be Issued
Concurrently by the Secretary of Agriculture and the
Commissioner of Agriculture and Markets."
Act of June 3, 1937, c. 296, 50 Stat. 246, as amended, 7 U. S. C.
§ 601 et seq.
16 7 U. S. C. § 610 (i).
17 See Laws of 1937, c. 798, § 258-n.
15

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

But no federal approval or responsibility for the challenged features of this order appears in any of these provisions or arrangements. The "memorandum of the principles of cooperation" relates only to marketing areas in
New York, while the marketing area served by Hood is
entirely outside of New York and is controlled by Federal
Order No. 4, applicable to the greater Boston market. 8
Federal Order No. 27 is applicable to the New York metropolitan market ' and it is as to this order that the State
of New York is recognized by the memorandum as entitled to consultation. There is no such financial support
as was given in Parkerv. Brown, 317 U. S. 341.
The Congressional regulation contemplates and permits
a wide latitude in which the State may exercise its police
power over the local facilities for handling milk. We
assume, though it is not necessary to decide, that the
Federal Act does not preclude a state from placing restrictions and obstructions in the way of interstate coinmerce for the ends and purposes always held permissible
under the Commerce Clause. But here the challenge is
only to a denial of facilities for interstate commerce upon
the sole and specific grounds that it will subject others
to competition and take supplies needed locally, an end,
as we have shown, always held to be precluded by the
Commerce Clause. We have no doubt that Congress in
the national interest could prohibit or curtail shipments
of milk in interstate commerce, unless and until local
demands are met. Nor do we know of any reason why
Congress may not, if it deems it in the national interest,
authorize the states to place similar restraints on movement of articles of commerce. And the provisions looking
to state cooperation may be sufficient to warrant the state
in imposing regulations approved by the federal au-

1

7 C. F. R. §§ 904-904.202 (1947 Supp.).
7 C. F. R. §§ 927-927.202 (1947 Supp.).

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

Opinion of the Court.

thorities, even if they otherwise might run counter to the
decisions that coincidence is as fatal as conflict when Congress acts. See Bethlehem Steel Co. v. New York State
Labor Relations Board, 330 U. S. 767. It is, of course,
a quite different thing if Congress through its agents finds
such restrictions upon interstate commerce advance the
national welfare, than if a locality is held free to impose
them because it, judging its own cause, finds them in the
interest of local prosperity.
When it is considered that the Federal Act was passed
expressly to overcome "disruption of the orderly exchange
of commodities in interstate commerce" and conditions
found to "burden and obstruct the normal channels of
interstate commerce," 7 U. S. C. § 601, it seems clear that
we can not sustain the State's argument that its restrictions here involved supplement and further the federal
scheme.
Moreover, we can hardly assume that the challenged
provisions of this order advance the federal scheme of
regulation because Congress forbids inclusion of such a
policy in a federal milk order. Section Sc (5) (G) of the
Act provides:
"No marketing agreement or order applicable to
milk and its products in any marketing area shall
prohibit or in any manner limit, in the case of the
products of milk, the marketing in that area of any
milk or product thereof produced in any production
area in the United States." "{'
While there may be difference of opinion as to whether
this authorizes the Federal Order to limit, so long as
it does not prohibit, interstate shipment of milk, see
Bailey Farm Dairy Co. v. Anderson, 157 F. 2d 87, 96;
Bailey Farm Dairy Co. v. Jones, 61 F. Supp. 209, 221-a
question upon which we express no opinion-it is clear
2

7 U. S. C. § 60Sc (5) (G).
923978 0- 49-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

that the policy of the provision is inconsistent with the
State's contention that it may, in its own interest, impose
such a limitation as a coincident or supplement to federal
regulation.
The only federal restriction of handlers' purchases from
new producers, found in § 8c (5) (B), authorizes inclusion, in orders concerning milk or milk products, of a
clause providing that for deliveries made during the first
sixty days a new producer shall be paid only the minimum
price applicable for milk of the particular use classification, subject to adjustments not relevant here.21 This
provision was included in the 1935 amendment,22 "to
prevent assaults upon the price structure by the sporadic
importation of milk from new producing areas, while
permitting the orderly and natural expansion of the area
supplying any market . . . ." S. Rep. No. 1011, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 11. And, it was added, "this is the
only limitation upon the entry of new producers-wherever located-into a market, and it can remain effective
only for the specified . . . period." Ibid. The bill originally provided for a ninety-day minimum price period
but in conference the less restrictive sixty-day period
was adopted. H. R. Rep. No. 1757, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 21.23
These sections and reports indicate that it is the deliberate policy of the Congress to prevent federal officers
from placing barriers in the way of the interstate flow
of milk. While a statutory prohibition against federal
21

See 7 U. S. C. § 608c (5) (B).

The Act of August 24, 1935, 49 Stat. 750, amended the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, 48 Stat. 31. Section 8c first
appeared in the 1935 Act, which was amended and reenacted by
the 1937 Act, 50 Stat. 246, cited in note 15.
23 See also H. R. Rep. No. 1241, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 7-11.
And see debates at 79 Cong. Rec. 9461-63; 9572-73; 9602-04;
11134-41; and 13022.
22

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

BLACK, J., dissenting.

interference with certain phases of it may not always
imply that the state too is precluded, it is obvious that
a state limitation on export for the benefit of its own
consumers is not authorized by this Federal Act. The
purpose as expressed in § 1, 7 U. S. C. § 601, is to avoid
conditions which burden and obstruct the normal channels of interstate commerce. The object of the federal
program to raise and stabilize the price of products was
to stimulate interstate commerce. The order of the Commissioner avows itself to have the opposite effect. It
can claim neither federal sponsorship nor congressional
sanction.
Since the statute as applied violates the Commerce
Clause and is not authorized by federal legislation pursuant to that Clause, it cannot stand. The judgment
is reversed and the cause remanded for proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.
In this case the Court sets up a new constitutional
formula for invalidation of state laws regulating local
phases of interstate commerce. I believe the New York
law is invulnerable to constitutional attack under constitutional rules which the majority of this Court have
long accepted. The new formula subjects state regulations of local business activities to greater constitutional
hazards than they have ever had to meet before. The
consequences of the new formula, as I understand it,
will not merely leave a large area of local business activities free from state regulation. All local activities that
fall within the scope of this new formula will be free
from any regulatory control whatever. For it is inconceivable that Congress could pass uniform national legislation capable of adjustment and application to all the
local phases of interstate activities that take place in

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

the 48 states. See Robertson v. California, 328 U. S.
440, 449, 459-460. It is equally inconceivable that Congress would attempt to control such diverse local activities through a "swarm of statutes only locally applicable
and utterly inconsistent." Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S.
1, 21.
First. New York has a comprehensive set of regulations
to control the production, distribution and sale of milk.
Their over-all purposes are two: (1) to promote health
by maintaining an adequate supply and an orderly distribution of uncontaminated milk; (2) to promote the
general welfare by saving farmer milk-producers from
impoverishment and insolvency. The state legislature
concluded that achievement of these goals demanded
elimination of destructive competition among milk dealers. The legislature believed that while cutthroat competition among purchaser dealers temporarily raises the
price of farmers' milk, the end result of the practice in
New York had been economic distress for the farmers.
After destructive dealer competition had driven financially weak dealers from the contest, the more opulent
survivors had pushed producers' prices far below production costs. Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502, 515516, gives a graphic description of the plight of these
farmers prior to the enactment of these regulations and
makes clear that the chief incentive for the regulations
was the promotion of health and the general welfare
by financial rehabilitation of the farmers. And despite
due-process objections, the Nebbia case sustained the
state's constitutional power to apply its law to New York
dealers in order to promote the health, economic stability
and general welfare of the state's people.
That part of the regulatory plan challenged here bars
issuance of licenses for additional milk-handling plants if
new plants would "tend to destructive competition in
a market already adequately served" or would be con-

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

trary to "the public interest." In determining whether
a milk market is "adequately served," the state follows
a plan similar to the federal law in that both divide the
country into "marketing areas." Under this plan, the
state legislature did not attempt to prescribe one rule
applicable throughout the whole state limiting the number of milk dealers or the number of their plants. A
single rule of this kind would have lacked the necessary
flexibility to accommodate the varying needs of markets
in different parts of the state. So a state commissioner
was authorized to hold hearings and make findings of
fact to determine whether existing plants could adequately supply a given local producer's market or whether
new plants would bring about the destructive competition among dealers that the law was designed to prevent.
The commissioner's findings and orders were subject to
judicial review. There is no challenge to the constitutional validity of the New York law as applied to New
York milk dealers who sell milk in New York.
Second. Petitioner, a milk dealer, has two plants in
New York. It buys milk, cools it, and ships it to Boston.
It applied to the commissioner for a license to operate a
third plant in the same local market area. After evidence the commissioner found that petitioner's two plants
plus the others in the vicinity were adequate outlets
for all the milk produced in that vicinity; some of the
dealers in the area had plant capacities already in excess
of the available supply. Petitioner was one of these.
From this the commissioner found that more plants
would bring about the kind of destructive competition
against which the law was aimed. That finding is
not challenged. Nor is it charged that the order was
prompted by desire to prevent New York milk from
going to Boston.
There was a finding that the destructive competition
incident to the operation of a new plant probably would

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

reduce the volume of milk purchased by some existing
dealers who supplied milk to certain New York cities.
One of these cities had recently suffered a milk shortage.
But this finding neither proves nor implies that petitioner's application was denied to keep milk from going to
Boston or to aid local economic interests. In gauging
the effect of an order denying an application for additional milk plants in a purchasing area, it seems essential
to intelligent administration that the commissioner consider the available supply in that area in relation to the
consumer demand on dealers as sellers. For if existing
area plants already are unable to buy enough milk to
supply their consumer demands, new plants, striving to
buy a portion of the short supply, will inevitably intensify
competition among purchasing dealers, thus bringing
one kind of destructive competition the New York law
was designed to prevent. Consequently, in determining
whether new plants would tend to destructive competition, the commissioner cannot ignore a fundamental economic truth-the interrelation of supply and demand.
Whether the new plants would service Troy, Boston, or
elsewhere, the effect new plants would have on the available supply to existing consumers is a relevant consideration. And the New York law requires that consideration without regard to the geographical location of the
consumers.
Had a dealer supplying New York customers applied
for a license to operate a new plant, the commissioner
would have been compelled under the Act to protect
petitioner's plants supplying Boston consumers in the
same manner that this order would have protected New
York consumers. In protecting inter- or intra-state dealers from destructive competition which would endanger
the milk farmers' price structure or the continued supply
of healthful milk to the customers of existing dealers, the
commissioner would be faithful to the Act's avowed pur-

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

poses. The commerce clause should not be stretched to
forbid New York's fair attempt to protect the healthful
milk supply of consumers, even though some of the consumers in this case happen to live in Troy, New York.
And unless this Court is willing to charge an unfairness to
the commissioner that has not been charged by petitioner
or shown by the evidence, the Court cannot attribute
to the commissioner an invidious purpose to discriminate
against petitioner's interstate business in order to benefit
local intrastate competitors and their local consumers.
Of course if this were a case involving such discrimination,
relief could be obtained under the principles announced
in Best & Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454.
The language of this state Act is not discriminatory,
the legislative history shows it was not so intended, and
the commissioner has not administered it with a hostile
eye. The Act must stand or fall on this basis notwithstanding the overtones of the Court's opinion. If petitioner and other interstate milk dealers are to be placed
above and beyond this law, it must be done solely on
this Court's new constitutional formula which bars a
state from protecting itself against local destructive competitive practices so far as they are indulged in by dealers
who ship their milk into other states.
Third. The number of plants petitioner can have in
the New York market is of concern to petitioner, to New
York, and to the nation. Petitioner's business interest,
however, under the Nebbia rule must be subordinated to
the public interest. New York's concern derives from its
interest in the health and well-being of its people deemed
by the legislature of New York to be threatened by competitive trade practices of dealers who buy and sell milk
produced in the state. That its concern is great is manifested by the state law, its background, its purposes, and
its administration. The national concern, reflected in
the commerce clause, flows from federal solicitude for

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

freedom of trade among the states. That solicitude is
great.
Reconciliation of state and federal interests in regulation of commerce always has been a perplexing problem. The claims of neither can be ignored if due regard
be accorded the welfare of state and nation. For in the
long run the welfare of each is dependent upon the welfare of both. Injury to commercial activities in the
states is bound to produce an injurious reaction on interstate commerce, and vice versa. The many local activities which are parts of interstate transactions have given
rise to much confusion. The basic problem has always
been whether the state or federal government has power
to regulate such local activities, whether the power of
either is exclusive or concurrent, whether the state has
power to regulate until Congress exercises its supreme
power, and the extent to which and the circumstances
under which this Court should invalidate state regulations in the absence of an exercise of congressional power.
This last question is the one here involved.
Fourth. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, decided in
1824, held invalid a New York statute regulating commerce which conflicted with an Act of Congress. The
Court there left undecided the question strongly urged
that the commerce clause of itself forbade New York to
regulate commerce. In 1847 this undecided question was
discussed by Chief Justice Taney.' His view was that
the commerce clause of itself did no more than grant
power to Congress to regulate commerce among the
states; that until Congress acted states could regulate
the commerce; and that this Court was without power
to strike down state regulations unless they conflicted
with a valid federal law. This the Chief Justice thought
1

The License Cases, 5 How. 504, 578-579.

The Commerce Clause, 50-58 (1937).

And see Frankfurter,

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

BLACK, J., dissenting.

was the intention of the Constitution's framers, drawing
his inference of their intent from his belief that they
knew "a multitude of minor regulations must be necessary, which Congress amid its great concerns could
never find time to consider and provide
.
2
In 1852 this Court rejected in part the Taney interpretation of the commerce clause. Cooley v. Board of
Wardens, 12 How. 299. The opinion there stated that
the commerce clause per se forbade states to regulate
commerce under some circumstances but left them free
to do so under other circumstances. The dividing line
was not precisely drawn, but the Court outlined broad
principles to guide future determinations of the side of
the line on which commercial transactions would be held
to fall. In doing so, it apparently took into consideration
Mr. Chief Justice Taney's 1847 belief that absolute prohibition of all state regulation of commerce would create
an area immune from any regulation at all. For in the
Cooley case the Court held at p. 319 that the commerce
clause per se only prohibited state regulation of local
interstate commerce activities which "are in their nature
national, or admit only of one uniform system." It was
also held at p. 320 that the commerce clause left states
free to regulate interstate commerce activities where diverse conditions incident to different customs, habits and
trade practices, could best be treated and regulated by
different regulations "drawn from local knowledge and
2

State legislation which patently discriminates against interstate

commerce has long been held to conflict with the commerce clause
itself. The writer has acquiesced in this interpretation, Adams Mfg.
Co. v. Storen, 304 U. S. 307, 331-332, although agreeing with the
views of Chief Justice Taney that the commerce clause was not
intended to grant courts power to regulate commerce even to this
extent. The equal protection clause would seem to me a more
appropriate source of judicial power in respect to such discriminatory
laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

experience, and conformed to local wants." Thus cautiously did the Court enter this new field of judicial
power. It decided no more than that this Court in
passing upon state regulations of commerce would always
weigh the conflicting interests of state and nation. Moreover, implicit in the rule, as shown by what the Court
said, was a determined purpose not to leave areas in
which interstate activities could be insulated from any
regulation at all.
Fifth. The basic principles of the Cooley rule have
been entangled and sometimes obscured with much language. In the main, however, those principles have been
the asserted grounds for determination of all commerce
cases decided by this Court from 1852 until today. Pertinent quotations from some of these cases appear in
MR.JUSTIcE

FRANKFURTER'S

dissenting opinion and he

refers to others. Many of the cases have used the
words "restraints," "obstructions," "incommerce," "on
commerce," "burdens," "direct burdens," "undue burdens," "unreasonable burdens," "unfair burdens," "incidental burdens," etc., but such words have almost always
been used, as the opinions reveal, to aid in application
of the Cooley balance-of-interests rule.3
There have been some sporadic deviations from the
Cooley principle as illustrated by Di Santo v. Pennsylvania, 273 U. S. 34. The powerful dissents of Mr. Justice
Brandeis and Mr. Justice Stone, concurred in by Mr.
I Dowling, Interstate Commerce and State Power, 27 Va. L. Rev. 1
(1940); and see for illustration Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325
U. S. 761, 768-769; United States v. UnderwritersAssn., 322 U. S. 533,
547-549; Cloverleaf Co. v. Patterson, 315 U. S. 148, 154-155; California v. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109, 113; Milk Board v. Eisenberg
Co., 306 U. S. 346; S.C. Hwy. Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S.
177, 184-191; Hartford Indemnity Co. v. Illinois, 298 U. S. 155;
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S.1. And see cases collected by Mr. Justice
Brandeis, in his dissenting opinion in Di Santo v. Pennsylvania,
273 U. S. 34, 39-40.

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

Justice Holmes, pointed out the Di Santo deviation.
The necessity for delicate adjustment of the conflicting
state and federal claims was pointed out. It was emphasized that decision on such an issue required a consideration of facts such as the nature of the regulation, the
character of the business, the regulation's actual effect
on interstate commerce. Mr. Justice Brandeis pointed
out the dangers in deviating from these principles, and,
perhaps with prophetic insight as to the future fate of
the Di Santo case, cited a long list of cases in which such
deviations had required this Court later to overrule or
explain away the prior deviations. P. 43, n. 4. In California v. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109, 115-116, this Court
explained away the Di Santo case. It could not stand,
so said the Court, because it was a departure from the
principle that had been recognized ever since Cooley v.
Board of Wardens, supra.
In this Court, challenges to the Cooley rule on the
ground that the rule was an ineffective protector of
interstate commerce from state regulations have been
confined to dissents and concurring opinions.' Duckworth v. Arkansas, 314 U. S.390, 400-401; Bob-Lo Excursion Co. v. Michigan, 333 U. S.28, 37-38, 41, 42, 45;
Independent Warehouses v. Scheele, 331 U. S. 70, 85, 95.
In the Duckworth case by application of the Cooley
rule the majority of this Court sustained a state regulation of interstate transportation. A concurring opinion
expressed the view that the Court's opinion written by
Chief Justice Stone, rooted as it was in the Cooley principle, "let commerce struggle for Congressional action to
4The writer's view has been that the Cooley rule resulted in this
Court's invalidating state statutes that should be left operative unless
Congress should strike them down. See dissenting opinion in Southern Pac. Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761, 784-796. But since my views
were rejected, I joined in disposition of Morgan v. Virginia, 328 U. S.
373, 386-388, by application of the Cooley rule.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

make it free," and expressed the writer's unwillingness
to follow the Court's "trend" I beyond the "plain requirements" of existing cases, at p. 401.
The philosophy of this Duckworth concurring opinion
which the Court rejected, can alone support the holding
and opinion today. That philosophy commends itself to
many thoughtful people. Some people believe in this
philosophy because of fear that judicial toleration of any
state regulations of local phases of commerce will bring
about what they call "Balkanization" of trade in the
United States-trade barriers so high between the states
that the stream of interstate commerce cannot flow over
them.' Other people believe in this philosophy because
of an instinctive hostility to any governmental regulation of "free enterprise"; this group prefers a laissez
faire economy.7 To them the spectre of "Bureaucracy"
is more frightening than "Balkanization."
The Cooley balancing-of-interests principle which the
Court accepted and applied in the Duckworth case is
today supplanted by the philosophy of the Duckworth
concurring opinion which though presented in the Duckworth case gained no adherents.8 For the New York
statute is killed by a mere automatic application of a new
mechanistic formula. The Court appraises nothing, unless its stretching of the old commerce clause interpretation results from a reappraisal of the power and duty
5Dowling, Interstate Commerce and State Power, 27 Va. L. Rev.
1 (1940); Braden, Umpire to the Federal System, 10 U. of Chi.
L. Rev. 27 (1942).
6 Bane, Interstate Trade Barriers, 16 Ind. L. J. 121 (1940); and
see the collection of articles on the subject of Trade Barriers in
9 Geo. Wash.L.Rev.755 (1941).
7Melder, The Economics of Trade Barriers, 16 Ind. L. J. 127,
131 (1940) ; Reynolds, The Distribution of Power to Regulate Interstate Carriers Between the Nation and the States, 379 (1928).
S Barnett, Interstate Commerce-State Control, 21 Ore. L. Rev.
385, 391-392 (1942); Note, 26 Minn. L. Rev. 654, 655 (1942).

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

of this Court under the commerce clause. Numerous
cases, for examples Parker v. Brown, 317 U. S. 341, and
Milk Board v. Eisenberg Co., 306 U. S. 346, which made
judicial appraisals under the Cooley rule, are gently laid to
rest. Their interment is tactfully accomplished, without
ceremony, eulogy, or report of their demise. The ground
beneath them has been deftly excavated by a soothing
process which limits them to their facts, their precise
facts, their "plain requirements." The vacancy left by
the Cooley principle will be more than filled, however,
by the new formula which without balancing interests,
automatically will relieve many businesses from state
regulation. This Court will thereby be relieved of much
trouble in attempting to reconcile state and federal interests. State regulatory agencies too will be relieved of
a large share of their traditional duties when they discover
that bad local business practices are now judicially immunized from state regulation. But it is doubtful if
the relief accorded will promote the welfare of the state
or nation since Congress cannot possibly undertake the
monumental task of suppressing all pernicious local business practices.
Sixth. The Court strongly relies on Baldwin v. Seelig,
294 U. S.511. The crucial facts of that case were these.
New York law fixed a minimum price for milk bought by
New York dealers from New York farmers. Vermont's
legislative policy left Vermont farmers and milk dealers
free to fix milk prices by bargaining. Seelig, a New York
dealer, sold milk in New York which had been bought
from Vermont farmers at prices below that fixed for New
York farmers by New York law. New York law forbade
sale of Seelig's milk in New York because the Vermont
farmers had not received the New York fixed price for
their milk. New York's object was to save its farmers
from competition with Vermont milk. And the Court
saw the New York law as a discriminatory "barrier to

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

traffic between one state and another as effective as if
customs duties, equal to the price differential, had been
laid upon the thing transported." Baldwin v. Seelig,
supra, at 521. The effect of the law, therefore, was precisely the same as though in order to protect its farmers
from competition with Vermont milk, New York had imposed substantially higher taxes on sellers of Vermont
produced articles than it imposed on sellers of New York
produced articles. Under many previous decisions of this
Court such discriminations against interstate commerce
were not permitted. See Best & Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S.
454.
Even though the Court regarded the Baldwin v. Seelig
law as discriminatory, other considerations were added to
weight the scales on the side of invalidation. Its impact
on Vermont economy and Vermont legislative power was
weighed. To whatever extent it is desirable to reform
the economic standards of Vermont, "the legislature of
Vermont and not that of New York must supply the fitting remedy." Baldwin v. Seelig, supra, at 524. This is
a due process concept.' In emphasizing the due process
objectionable phase of New York's law, the Court was
well within the Cooley philosophy. 0 Furthermore under
the Cooley rule, aside from due process, a state's regulation that immediately bears upon nothing but activities
wholly within its boundaries is far less vulnerable than
one which casts burdens on activities within the boundaries of another state.1
9 Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; cf. Hoopeston Co. v. Cullen,
318 U. S. 313, 318-319; Hartford Ind. Co. v. Delta Co., 292 U. S.
143, 149-150.
10 Morgan v. Virginia, 328 U. S. 373, 386; and compare dissenting
opinion at pp. 391, 394; Bob-Lo Excursion Co. v. Michigan, 333
U. S. 28, 37, n. 16, 40, 41-42.
"Southern Pac. Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761, 767-768, n. 2;
S. C. Hwy. Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 184-186.

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

It was because New York attempted to project its law
into Vermont that even its admitted health purpose was
insufficient to outweigh Vermont's interest in controlling
its own local affairs. Baldwin v. Seelig, supra, p. 524.
Added to this was the Court's appraisal of the law as a
plain discrimination against interstate commerce that
would inescapably erect a barrier to suppress competitive
sales of Vermont milk in New York, thus leading to retaliatory "rivalries and reprisals," at p: 522. Quite differently here New York has not attempted to regulate
the price of milk in Massachusetts or the manner in which
it will be distributed there; it has not attempted to put
pressure on Massachusetts to reform its economic standards; its law is not hostile to interstate commerce in conception or operation; its purpose to conserve health and
promote economic stability among New York producers
is not stretched to the breaking point by an argument
that New York cannot safely aid its own people's health
unless permitted to trespass upon the power of Massachusetts to regulate local affairs in Massachusetts. Nor
is this New York law, fairly administered as it has been,
the kind that breeds "rivalries and reprisals." The circumstances and conditions that brought about invalidation of the law considered in the Baldwin case are too
different from those here considered to rest today's holding on the Baldwin decision.
Seventh. Milk Board v. Eisenberg Co., 306 U. S. 346,
would control this case but for the Court's limiting that
case to its precise facts. That law required a state license
of all persons who handled or purchased milk within the
commonwealth for sale within or without the commonwealth. It required all dealers, interstate and intrastate,
to keep records and to make bonds. Dealers who sold
their products within or without the state were required
to pay state-fixed prices. The state granted or denied
licenses on the Act's enumerated terms and suspended

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

or revoked them for cause. Avowed purposes of the
Pennsylvania law were identical with the stated purposes
of the New York law. Like New York the method chosen
to achieve these purposes was protection of milk farmers
from what were deemed to be the evil consequences of
cutthroat competition. The law was applied against interstate dealers in Pennsylvania, who like petitioner in
New York, bought, weighed, tested, and cooled milk in
Pennsylvania preparatory to shipment outside the state.
The Eisenberg case thus sustained the power of a state
to require licenses from interstate dealers and to impose
conditions on their interstate commerce transactions in
order to effectuate legitimate state policies. And the
conditions Pennsylvania imposed were burdensome, as
this Court recognized. They erected obstacles which
were bound to limit the number of interstate dealers.
The limited number of interstate dealers who could get
and hold state licenses were compelled to incur expenses
that added to the costs of state-fixed milk prices they
were required to pay as a condition precedent to the
state's allowing them to buy and ship out any milk at
all. Pennsylvania imposed these burdens on interstate
commerce to promote health and to protect its farmers
from the consequences of destructive competition among
dealers. This New York law was designed to promote
health and to protect New York farmers from destructive
competition in New York.
It requires more than invocation of the spectre of
"Balkanization" and eulogy of the Constitution's framers to prove that there is a gnat's heel difference in the
burdens imposed on commerce by the two laws. It cannot even be said that one regulation was "on commerce"
and one was not (whatever "on commerce" means), for
both affected the capacity of dealers to buy milk for interstate sales. There is this difference. The handicap

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

of state-fixed high-priced milk, big bonds, and large bookkeeping expenses would probably reduce the volume of
interstate shipments far more than the New York limitation of new plants in particular localities. True, this
New York regulation might reduce the volume of milk
this particular dealer might get and ship. But the commerce clause was not written to let one particular dealer's interests destroy a state's orderly marketing system.
There has certainly been no proof here that New York
is wrong in believing that its law will rehabilitate farmers,
induce more of them to get and stay in the milk business,
and thus provide a greater New York production of better
milk available for sale both in and out of New York.
Should this result follow, interstate commerce will not be
burdened, it will be helped. And it seems to me that here
as in the Eisenberg case, this Court should not pit its
legal judgment against a legislative judgment that is in
harmony with the views of persons who have devoted
their lives to a practical study of the milk problem.
Eighth. I think that Congress and its authorized federal agency have knowingly acquiesced in, if they have
not actually encouraged and approved, enactment and
enforcement of the New York law here held invalid.
The New York law authorizes its administrator to act
in cooperation with federal milk-control authorities and
after consultation to make such supplementary orders as
might be helpful in accomplishing the joint state-federal
program. So also, 7 U. S. C. § 610 (i)authorizes and
directs the Secretary of Agriculture to confer and hold
joint hearings with the authorities of any state in order
to "obtain uniformity in the formulation, administration,
and enforcement of Federal and State programs relating
to the regulation of the handling of agricultural commodities . . . ." The section further authorizes the Secretary to "issue orders . . . complementary to orders or
823978 0-49----40

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK, ,J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

other regulations issued by such [State] authorities; and
to make available to such State authorities the records
and facilities of the Department of Agriculture .... "
In the foregoing provisions Congress manifested its
purpose to subject the milk industry to two cooperating
authorities: (1) state legislatures and their selected administrative authorities, and (2) the Secretary of Agriculture. Congress did far more than direct a formal,
polite cooperation between New York and the Secretary
of Agriculture. Recognizing the compelling necessity for
a state-federal integrated regulatory system for the milk
industry, Congress was careful to leave the door open for
the Secretary of Agriculture and state authorities working together to formulate mutually complementary orders
in the field. These complementary state-federal laws
and orders were to be aimed at precisely the same evils
believed to have been generated by chaotic competitive
conditions in the milk industry. The objective of both
laws was to help impoverished farmers. 48 Stat. 31,
7 U. S. C. § 601.
This record does not reveal the extent to which there
was state-federal cooperation in connection with enactment and enforcement of the New York law here involved. Absence of a full showing of such cooperation
is doubtless due to the failure of the petitioner to raise
any commerce questions in the hearing before the New
York Commissioner. This in itself should be enough to
cause this Court, at the very least, to follow MR. JUSTICE
FRANKFURTER'S suggestion and remand the case. This
would afford the state opportunity to develop the facts
concerning federal and state cooperation. New York's
law should not be condemned on the basis of abstract
rhetoric about the "fathers" and the commerce clause.
Surely a state is still entitled to present its side of a constitutional controversy, though perhaps today's new rule
makes it an exercise in futility.

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

New York has presented some evidence in its brief of
such state-federal cooperation. Without such showing
we should assume that the Secretary has followed congressional directions. If such an assumption be not made
we cannot ignore the action of Congress in selecting the
Secretary of Agriculture to protect interstate commerce
in milk. Congress has even given him power to limit
milk shipments as between different federal marketing
areas.' 2 This is hardly consistent with a congressional
purpose to deny the Secretary power to approve this
state regulation and order complementary to his own basic
program. And here there is no evidence whatever to
show that fair enforcement of the New York law would
limit the total volume of New York milk available for
shipment into other states. The basic purpose of the
New York law like that of the federal law was to protect
producers from low prices on the theory that this protection would insure an adequate milk supply for inter- as
well as intra-state shipments.
From the foregoing, it seems to me that the Court now
steps in where Congress wanted it to stay out. The Court
puts itself in the position of guardian of interstate trade
in the milk industry. Congress, with full constitutional
power to do so, selected the Secretary of Agriculture to
do this job. Maybe this Court would be a better guardian, but it may be doubted that authority for the Court
127 U. S. C. § 608c (5) (G). This section restricts the Secretary of Agriculture's power in two respects: (1) It forbids him to
"prohibit" shipment of "milk" from one federal marketing area to
another. (2) It forbids him to "limit" market-to-market shipment
of "milk products." The Chairman of the Committee in charge
of the Act in which this provision appeared explained to the House
that a failure to grant the Secretary power to "limit" milk shipments "would absolutely wreck the whole milk program." 79 Cong.
Rec. 9572-9573. See also 79 Cong. Rec. 13022, 13023; Bailey Farm
Dairy Co. v. Anderson, 157 F. 2d 87-96; Bailey Farm Dairy Co. v.
Jones, 61 F. Supp. 209, 221-224.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

to undertake the task can be found in the Constitutioneven in its "great silences." At any rate, I had supposed
that this Court would not find conflict where Congress
explicitly has commanded cooperation."3
The sole immediate result of today's holding is that
petitioner will be allowed to operate a new milk plant in
New York. This consequence standing alone is of no
great importance. But there are other consequences of
importance. It is always a serious thing for this Court
to strike down a statewide law. It is more serious when
the state law falls under a new rule which will inescapably narrow the area in which states can regulate and
control local business practices found inimical to the public welfare. The gravity of striking down state regulations is immeasurably increased when it results as here in
leaving a no-man's land immune from any effective regulation whatever. It is dangerous to assume that the aggressive cupidity of some need never be checked by government in the interest of all.
The judicially directed march of the due process philosophy as an emancipator of business from regulation
appeared arrested a few years ago. That appearance was
illusory. That philosophy continues its march. The
due process clause and commerce clause have been used
like Siamese twins in a never-ending stream of challenges
to government regulation. See for example, Pacific Tel.
Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 403, 420. The reach of
one twin may appear to be longer than that of the other,
but either can easily be turned to remedy this apparent
handicap.
13 Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S. 202, 209; Parker v.
Brown, 317 U. S. 341; Townsend v. Yeomans, 301 U. S. 441, 454;
Rice v. Bd. of Trade, 331 U. S. 247, 255; Prudential Ins. Co. v.
Benjamin, 328 U. S. 408, 433-436.

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

Both the commerce and due process clauses serve high
purposes when confined within their proper scope. But
a stretching of either outside its sphere can paralyze the
legislative process, rendering the people's legislative representatives impotent to perform their duty of providing
appropriate rules to govern this dynamic civilization.
Both clauses easily lend themselves to inordinate expansions of this Court's power at the expense of legislative
power. 4 For under the prevailing due process rule, appeals can be made to the "fundamental principles of liberty and justice" which our "fathers" wished to preserve.
In commerce clause cases reference can appropriately be
made to the far-seeing wisdom of the "fathers" in guarding against commercial and even shooting wars among
the states. Such arguments have strong emotional appeals and when skillfully utilized they sometimes obscure
the vision.
The basic question here is not the greatness of the
commerce clause concept, but whether all local phases of
interstate business are to be judicially immunized from
state laws against destructive competitive business practices such as those prohibited by New York's law. Of
course, there remains the bare possibility Congress might
attempt to federalize all such local business activities in
the forty-eight states. While I have doubt about the
wisdom of this New York law, I do not conceive it to
be the function of this Court to revise that state's eco14 Other constitutional provisions with vague contours are available
as instruments for the judiciary to protect business from legislative
regulation. Appealing phases of these vague contour provisions can
be judicially integrated to provide a variety of techniques to accomplish a single purpose, the protection of business against legislative
regulations obnoxious to courts. Under such a constitutional philosophy courts can invalidate business regulations on substantive grounds
or they can put obstacles in the path of enforcement making it
impossible to suppress business practices outlawed by valid legislation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

nomic judgments. Any doubt I may have concerning the
wisdom of New York's law is far less, however, than is
my skepticism concerning the ability of the Federal Government to reach out and effectively regulate all the local
business activities in the forty-eight states.
I would leave New York's law alone.
MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY

joins in this opinion.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE

RUTLEDGE joins, dissenting.

If the Court's opinion has meaning beyond deciding this
case in isolation, its effect is to hold that no matter how
important to the internal economy of a State may be the
prevention of destructive competition, and no matter
how unimportant the interstate commerce affected, a
State cannot as a means of preventing such competition
deny an applicant access to a market within the State if
that applicant happens to intend the out-of-state shipment of the product that he buys. I feel constrained to
dissent because I cannot agree in treating what is essentially a problem of striking a balance between competing
interests as an exercise in absolutes. Nor does it seem to
me that such a problem should be disposed of on a record
from which we cannot tell what weights to put in which
side of the scales.
In the interest of clarity, the controlling facts in this
case may thus be fairly summarized.
Hood, the petitioner, is a Massachusetts corporation
engaged in supplying the Boston market with fluid milk.
In New York State, on the border of Vermont and Massachusetts, it operates two milk-receiving plants to which
milk is delivered by local producers and whence it is
shipped to Boston without processing. These two
plants-at Eagle Bridge and Salem-are quite close together. On January 30, 1946, Hood applied to the Com-

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

missioner of Agriculture and Markets of New York for
an extension of its New York license to purchase milk
which would permit it to operate an additional receiving
plant at Greenwich, New York. Greenwich is ten miles
from Salem and twelve miles from Eagle Bridge. Hood
proposed to divert to the plant at Greenwich milk deliveries of producers living in that vicinity who were then
delivering to its more distant plants at Eagle Bridge
and Salem and to take on at Greenwich twenty or thirty
additional producers then delivering to competing dealers
in the vicinity of Greenwich.
The Commissioner of Agriculture and Markets denied
Hood's application for extension of its license. In so
doing, it rested its decision upon the following "conclusions":
"If applicant is permitted to equip and operate
another milk plant in this territory, and to take on
producers now delivering to plants other than those
which it operates, it will tend to reduce the volume
of milk received at the plants which lose those producers, and will tend to increase the cost of handling
milk in those plants.
"If applicant takes producers now delivering milk
to local markets such as Troy, it will have a tendency
to deprive such markets of a supply needed during
the short season. ...
"The issuance of a license to applicant which would
permit it to operate an additional plant, would tend
to a destructive competition in a market already
adequately served, and would not be in the public
interest."
Hood instituted proceedings in the Supreme Court of
New York to review the order which were transferred
without hearing to the Appellate Division. The Appellate Division sustained the Commissioner's action in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

per curiam opinion, and leave to appeal to the Court of
Appeals was granted. That court considered Hood's
claim that the order violated the commerce clause and
denied it on the ground that "any interference with the
free flow of interstate commerce was incidental only."
297 N. Y. 209, 215, 78 N. E. 2d 476, 478-79.
Some of the principles relevant to decision of this case
are settled beyond dispute. One of these is that the
prevention of destructive competition is a permissible
exercise of the police power. Nebbia v. New York, 291
U. S. 502; United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, 307

U. S. 533; Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381, 395.
Another is that a State is not barred from licensing an
activity merely because it is interstate commerce.1 Even
more basic is the principle that as to matters which do
not demand that regulation be uniformly present or uniformly absent, see Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How.
299, the State may impose its own requirements "even
though they materially interfere with interstate commerce." South CarolinaState Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 188. And only recently, be it
noted, this Court has characterized the buying of milk
1Among

considerations of State concern which have been found

sufficient to allow State licensing are the maintenance of sanitary
conditions, Milk Control Board v. Eisenberg Farm Products, 306
U. S. 346; and adequate prices, see Brief of Petitioner in Milk
Control Board v. Eisenberg Farm Products, supra, at pp. 20-21;
control of the transportation of liquor, Zifirin, Inc. v. Reeves, 308
U. S. 132; Duckworth v. Arkansas, 314 U. S. 390; the prevention of
"fraud and overreaching" by transportation agents, California v.
Thompson, 313 U. S. 109, 113; "safeguarding the interests of its [the
State's] own people in business dealings with corporations not of its
own chartering but who do business within its borders," Union
Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S. 202, 208; and protection of the
public from "fraud, misrepresentation, incompetence and sharp practice" on the part of insurance agents, Robertson v. California, 328
U. S. 440, 447.

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

for out-of-state shipment as an "essentially local" business. Milk Control Board v. Eisenberg Farm Products,
306 U. S. 346, 352.
Behind the distinction between "substantial" and "incidental" burdens upon interstate commerce is a recognition that, in the absence of federal regulation, it is
sometimes-of course not always-of greater importance
that local interests be protected than that interstate commerce be not touched.
"When Congress has not exerted its power under the
Commerce Clause, and state regulation of matters of
local concern is so related to interstate commerce
that it also operates as a regulation of that commerce, the reconciliation of the power thus granted
with that reserved to the state is to be attained by
the accommodation of the competing demands of
the state and national interests involved." Parker
v. Brown, 317 U. S.341, 362.
"But the Commerce Clause does not cut the States
off from all legislative relation to foreign and interstate commerce. South Carolina Highway Dept. v.
Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177; Western Live Stock
v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250. Such commerce interpenetrates the States, and no undisputed generality
about the freedom of commerce from state encroachment can delimit in advance the interacting areas
of state and national power when Congress has not
by legislation foreclosed state action. The incidence
of the particular state enactment must determine
whether it has transgressed the power left to the
States to protect their special state interests although
it is related to a phase of a more extensive commercial process." Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen,
322 U. S.202, 209-10.
"... in the necessary accommodation between local
needs and the overriding requirement of freedom for

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

the national commerce, the incidence of a particular
type of State action may throw the balance in support of the local need because interference with the
national interest is remote or unsubstantial. A police
regulation of local aspects of interstate commerce is
a power often essential to a State in safeguarding
vital local interests. At least until Congress chooses
to enact a nation-wide rule, the power will not be
denied to the State." Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S.
249, 253.
See also Southern R. Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 533;
Illinois Natural Gas Co. v. Central Illinois Pub. Serv.
Co., 314 U. S.498, 506.'
2Every case determining whether or not a local regulation amounts
to a prohibited "burden" on interstate commerce belongs at some
point along a graduated scale. Considering only those decided since
Milk Control Board v. Eisenberg Farm Products, 306 U. S. 346, at one
end are the tax cases; since a State has other sources of revenue, the
need for a tax "on" interstate commerce is hard to justify. It is
to be expected, therefore, that State revenue laws should constitute
the largest group of laws invalidated as "burdening" commerce.
And so they do. McCarroll v. Dixie Greyhound Lines, 309 U. S.
176; McGoldrick v. Gulf Oil Corp., 309 U. S. 414; McLeod v.
Dilworth Co., 322 U. S.327; Nippert v. City of Richmond, 327
U. S.416; Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249; Joseph v. Carter
& Weekes Co., 330 U. S.422; Central Greyhound Lines v. Mealey,
334 U. S.653, 662. Yet there has been an increasing recognition
of the States' interest in seeing that interstate commerce "pays
its way," and a consequent disposition to classify the object of
the tax as intrastate. McGoldrick v. Berwind-White Co., 309 U. S.
33; McGoldrick v. Felt & Tarrant Co., 309 U. S.70; McGoldrick
v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, 309 U. S.430; Nelson v.
Sears, Roebuck & Co., 312 U. S.359; Nelson v. Montgomery Ward
& Co., 312 U. S.373; Northwest Airlines v. Minnesota, 322 U. S.
292; General Trading Co. v. State Tax Comm'n, 322 U. S.335;
International Harvester Co. v. Department of Treasury, 322 U. S.
340; Independent Warehouses v. Scheele, 331 U. S. 70; cf. Aero
Mayflower Transit Co. v. Board of R. Comm'rs, 332 U. S.495. By
the same principle, a regulation which makes a good deal of trouble for

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

The Court's opinion deems the decision in Baldwin v.
Seelig, 294 U. S. 511, as most relevant to the present controversy. But it is the essential teaching of that case that
"considerations of degree" determine the line of decision
between what a State may and what a State may not regulate, when what is sought to be regulated is part of the
shuttle-work of interstate commerce. Id. at 525. What
was there held and all that was held was accurately defined in Milk Control Board v. EisenbergFarm Products,
306 U. S. 346, 353: "In Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, 294
U. S. 511, this Court condemned an enactment aimed
solely at interstate commerce attempting to affect and
regulate the price to be paid for milk in a sister state, and
an interstate railroad must be struck down in the absence of any very
convincing showing that the regulation is a reasonable response to

a serious local need. Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325 U. S. 761;
Morgan v. Virginia, 328 U. S. 373. But a more impressive showing
of such a contribution on the one hand and a less persuasive demonstration of inconvenience on the other has brought about the opposite
result. Terminal Railroad Assn. of St. Louis v. Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, 318 U. S. 1; Bob-Lo Excursion Co. v. Michigan,
333 U. S. 28. Where motor carriers are concerned, a State is regarded
as having a proprietary interest in its highways which justifies a
generally more aggressive assertion of its self-interest. Welch Co.
v. New Hampshire, 306 U. S. 79; Clark v. Paul Gray, Inc., 306 U. S.
583; Maurer v. Hamilton, 309 U. S.598. And the protection of
its own citizens through maintenance of high standards of business
dealing by such regulations as those involved in California v. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109; Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S.202;
and Robertson v. California, 328 U. S. 440, is a matter of local
concern that has been given almost as much latitude as the protection of health, Clason v. Indiana, 306 U. S.439. But at the
opposite extreme from revenue measures, perhaps, is control of
the transportation of intoxicating liquor, in the name of which
quite confining hobbles have been put upon interstate commerce
and sustained under the Commerce Clause, without resorting to the
Twenty-first Amendment. Ziffrin, Inc. v. Reeves, 308 U. S. 132;
Duckworth v. Arkansas, 314 U. S.390; Carter v. Virginia, 321 U. S.
131.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

we indicated that the attempt amounted in effect to a
tariff barrier set up against milk imported into the enacting state." The nakedness of New York's purpose to
reach into Vermont was ill-concealed by the tenuous
justification that if Vermont farmers got cheap prices for
their milk they would be tempted to save the expense of
sanitary precautions and thereby affect the health of New
York consumers. "If New York, in order to promote the
economic welfare of her farmers, may guard them against
competition with the cheaper prices of Vermont, the door
has been opened to rivalries and reprisals that were meant
to be averted by subjecting commerce between the states
to the power of the nation." 294 U. S. at 522. But
guarding against out-of-state competition is a very different thing from curbing competition from whatever
source. A tariff barrier between States, moreover, presupposes a purpose to prefer those who are within the
barrier; where no such preference appears there can be
no justification for reprisals and there is consequently
little probability of them. In the determination that an
extension of petitioner's license would tend to destructive
competition, the fact that petitioner intended the outof-state shipment of what it bought was, so far as the
record tells us, wholly irrelevant; under the circumstances, any other applicant, no matter where he meant
to send his milk, would presumably also have been refused
a license.
As I see the central issue, therefore, it is whether the
difference in degree between denying access to a market
for failure to comply with sanitary or book-keeping regulations and denying it for the sake of preventing destructive competition from disrupting the market is great
enough to justify a difference in result. But for that
difference in degree, the judgment below would fully rest
on the Eisenberg case. If, on the other hand, petitioner's
competitors were like itself engaged in interstate com-

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

merce, Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S. 307, and Bush &
Sons Co. v. Maloy, 267 U. S. 317, would be powerful precedents in favor of reversal. See also Lemke v. Farmers
Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50; Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268
U. S. 189.
This case falls somewhere between these most nearly decisive authorities. It is closer to the Buck and Bush
cases than to the Eisenberg case in that the denial of a
license to enter a market because the market is "adequately served" imposes a disqualification beyond the
power of the applicant to remove. In that respect the
effect upon the free flow of commerce is more enduring
than is the case where all that is required is compliance
with a local regulation. The State's interest in restricting competition, moreover, is less obvious than its interest
in preserving health or insuring probity in business dealings. Yet the commerce involved in the Buck and Bush
cases-the operation of busses between Seattle, Washington, and Portland, Oregon-was exclusively interstate.
Here, however, it does not appear that any of Hood's
competitors sent milk out of the State, and, in fact, only
about 8% of New York's entire production of milk is
sent out.3 In this respect the case resembles the Eisenberg case, in which it appeared that only slightly more
than 10% of the milk produced in Pennsylvania was
exported. 306 U. S. at 350. In upholding the State's
licensing power in that case, the Court remarked that
this percentage was "only a small fraction of the milk
produced by farmers in Pennsylvania" and concluded that
as a consequence "the effect of the law on interstate
commerce is incidental." Id. at 353. But comparison
could be carried further and still the similarities and
dissimilarities of the facts in the record before us to the
3 For this information I am indebted to the Department of Agriculture of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

Eisenberg case and the Buck and Bush cases would be
inconclusive. In an area where differences of degree depend on slight differences of fact, precedent alone is an
inadequate guide.
It is argued, however, that New York can have no
interest in the restriction of competition great enough
to warrant shutting its doors to one who would buy its
products for shipment to another State. This must mean
that the protection of health and the promotion of fair
dealing are of a different order, somehow, than the prevention of destructive competition. But the fixing of
prices was a main object of the regulation upheld in the
Eisenberg case, and it is obvious that one of the most
effective ways of maintaining a price structure is to control
competition.' The milk industry is peculiarly subject to
internecine warfare, as this Court recognized in sustaining
against due-process attack the precursor of New York's
present milk-control law. Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S.
502. A picture of ruthless and wasteful competition was
painted in that case as in each of the other cases in which
the Court has upheld the regulation of the milk industry.
United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, 307 U. S. 533;
H. P. Hood & Sons v. United States, 307 U. S. 588; United
States v. Wrightwood Dairy Co., 315 U. S. 110. And,
4Thus, in the Interstate Commerce Act of 1920, Congress gave the
Interstate Commerce Commission power to limit competition both
by withholding certificates of public convenience and necessity and
by permitting consolidations beyond the reach of the antitrust laws
and at the same time gave it power to prescribe minimum rates;
the two forms of control supplement each other. See 41 Stat. 477478, as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 1 (18), (19), (20) ; 41 Stat. 480-481,
as amended, 49 U. S. C. § 5 (11); 41 Stat. 484-85, as amended, 49

U. S. C. § 15 (1); Bikl6, Power of the Interstate Commerce Commission to PrescribeMinimum Rates, 36 Harv. L. Rev. 5, 26; see also Mr.
Justice Brandeis, dissenting in New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285

U. S. 262, 280, 308-10, and authorities there cited. Compare the
Miller-Tydings Act, 50 Stat. 693, 15 U. S. C. § 1.

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

so far as appears, State action to maintain the price
structure in conjunction with complementary regulation
by the Secretary of Agriculture is no less necessary for
the dairy industry than for the raisin industry. Compare
Parker v. Brown, 317 U. S. 341; see United States v. Rock
Royal Co-operative,Inc., 307 U. S. 533, 548-49. In view
of the importance that we have hitherto found in regulation of the economy of agriculture, I cannot understand
the justification for assigning, as a matter of law, so
much higher a place to milk dealers' standards of bookkeeping than to the economic well-being of their industry.
As matters now stand, however, it is impossible to
say whether or not the restriction of competition among
dealers in milk does in fact contribute to their economic
well-being and, through them, to that of the entire industry. And if we assume that some contribution is made,
we cannot guess how much. Why, when the State has
fixed a minimum price for producers, does it take steps to
keep competing dealers from increasing the price by bidding against each other for the existing supply? Is it concerned with protecting consumers from excessive prices?
Or is it concerned with seeing that marginal dealers,
forced by competition to pay more and charge less, are
not driven either to cut corners in the maintenance of
their plants or to close them down entirely? Might these
consequences follow from operation at less than capacity?
What proportion of capacity is necessary to enable the
marginal dealer to stay in business? Could Hood's potential competitors in the Greenwich area maintain efficient and sanitary standards of operation on a lower
margin of profit? How would their closing down affect
producers? Would the competition of Hood affect dealers other than those in that area? How many of those
dealers are also engaged in interstate commerce? How
much of a strain would be put on the price structure maintained by the State by a holding that it cannot regulate

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

the competition of dealers buying for an out-of-state
market? Is this a situation in which State regulation,
by supplementing federal regulation, is of benefit to interstate as well as to intrastate commerce?
We should, I submit, have answers at least to some of
these questions before we can say either how seriously
interstate commerce is burdened by New York's licensing
power or how necessary to New York is that power. The
testimony of the dealers with whom Hood seeks to compete is too inexplicit to supply the answers. Since the
needed information is neither accessible to judicial notice
nor within its proper scope, I believe we should seek further light by remanding the case to the courts of the State.
It is a course we have frequently taken upon records no
more unsatisfactory than this one. Compare Chastleton
Corp. v. Sinclair,264 U. S. 543; Hammond v. Schappi Bus
Line, 275 U. S. 164; Borden's Farm Products Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194; Polk Co. v. Glover, 305 U. S. 5; Gibbs
v. Buck, 307 U. S. 66; Mayo v. Canning Co., 309 U. S.
310-all cases remanded to avoid constitutional adjudication without adequate knowledge of the relevant facts.
Nor should we now dispose of the case upon the claim
that New York cannot discriminate against interstate
commerce by keeping its milk for absorption by "local
markets such as Troy." In support of this claim reliance is placed on Oklahoma v. Kansas Natural Gas
Co., 221 U. S. 229, and Pennsylvania v. West Virginia,
262 U. S. 553, and there is much force in the argument that if a State cannot keep for its own use a natural resource like gas, as it can keep its wild game, Geer
v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; see New York ex rel. Silz v.
Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31, 41, then a fortiori it cannot prefer its own inhabitants in the consumption of a product
that would not have come into existence but for its commercial value. But compare Heisler v. Thomas Colliery
Co., 260 U. S. 245; Oliver Iron Mining Co. v. Lord, 262

HOOD & SONS v. Du MOND.
525

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

U. S. 172. It is only as to this aspect of the case, at any
rate, that I can see the relevance of Baldwin v. Seelig,
294 U. S. 511, as dealing with what is characterized as
"the converse of the present situation." Support is also
sought in Foster-Fountain Packing Co. v. Haydel, 278
U. S. 1, and Toomer v. Witsell, 334 U. S. 385, but in
these cases what the State had done was to halt for
the benefit of local processors a product already moving
in interstate commerce without entirely withholding the
product from interstate commerce.
Broadly stated, the question is whether a State can
withhold from interstate commerce a product derived
from local raw materials upon a determination by an
administrative agency that there is a local need for it.
For me it has not been put to rest by Pennsylvania v.
West Virginia, supra. More narrowly, the question is
whether the State can prefer the consumers of one community to consumers in other States as well as to consumers in other parts of its own territory. It is arguable,
moreover, that the Commissioner was actuated not by
preference for New York consumers, but by the aim
of stabilizing the supply of all the local markets, including Boston as well as Troy, served by the New York
milkshed. It may also be that he had in mind the potentially harmful competitive effect of efforts by dealers
supplying the Troy market to repair, by attracting new
producers, the aggravation of Troy's shortage which
would result from the diversion to Boston of part of
Troy's supply. These too are matters as to which more
light would be needed if it were now necessary to decide
the question.
In the view I take of the issue of destructive competition, however, this question need not now be decided.
It is impossible to say from a reading of the opinions
below that the Commissioner's finding that extension of
Hood's license would tend to destructive competition
823978 O-49----41

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

would not by itself have been a sufficient basis for his
order; and it is a basis which evidence adduced upon
remand might put upon solid constitutional ground. A
decision at this stage of the question of preferment of
local needs, assuming that the record presents it, would
prove to be purely advisory, therefore, if when the case
came back to the State court, it found the order adequately supported by the justification of preventing destructive competition. It may be answered, to be sure,
that the State would have no reason to decide whether or
not the latter justification was adequate in the absence
of an indication by this Court that the former-the retention of locally needed milk-is constitutionally invalid.
And such an indication would amount to decision of the
very constitutional issue professedly left open. To which
my reply would be that it is a very different thing to
recognize the difficulty of a constitutional issue and to
point out circumstances in which it would not arise than
it is to decide the issue.
My conclusion, accordingly, is that the case should be
remanded to the Supreme Court of Albany County for
action consistent with the views I have stated.

