FOUNTAIN v. FILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

FOUNTAIN v. FILSON

ET UX.

ON PETITION FOR CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 542.

Decided April 18, 1949.

Respondents sued in the District of Columbia for a declaration of
a resulting trust in certain New Jersey realty and for "other
relief." The District Court granted petitioner's motion for a summary judgment, on the ground that New Jersey law would not
permit the imposition of a resulting trust in the circumstances
disclosed in the complaint and accompanying documents. The
Court of Appeals sustained this action but remanded the cause
to the District Court with directions to enter a personal money
judgment for respondents. Held: The Court of Appeals erred in
directing entry of a personal money judgment and in thus depriving
petitioner of an opportunity to dispute the facts material to that
claim. Pp. 681-683.
84 U. S. App. D. C. -,
171 F. 2d 999, reversed.

On appeal from a summary judgment of a district
court denying a declaration of a resulting trust in realty,
the Court of Appeals sustained this action but remanded
the case to the District Court with directions to enter
a personal money judgment. 84 U. S. App. D. C.
171 F. 2d 999. On petition for certiorari, this Court
grants certiorari, reverses the decision of the Court of
Appeals, and remands the cause to the District Court
for further proceedings, p. 683.
Charles A. Horsky for petitioner.
Camden R. McAtee for respondents.
PER CURIAM.

Mr. and Mrs. Filson brought this suit in the District
Court for the District of Columbia, claiming a $6,000
interest in certain New Jersey realty. The complaint
alleged that Mr. and Mrs. Fountain, the defendants,
acquired title to this realty subject to a resulting trust

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

in favor of the Filsons in that amount. The Fountains
answered. They denied the existence of a resulting trust
and also denied the existence of any obligation to the
Filsons. The documents covering the transfer of the
realty and certain depositions of the parties were filed.
Mrs. Fountain, her husband having died, then moved
for summary judgment under Rule 56 of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure. The sole basis of the motion
was the claim that New Jersey law would not permit
the imposition of a resulting trust under the circumstances disclosed in the complaint and the accompanying
documents. The motion was granted and judgment for
Mrs. Fountain was entered.
On appeal the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia came to three conclusions. First, it agreed
that under New Jersey law no resulting trust could arise.
Second, it concluded that the summary judgment in Mrs.
Fountain's favor was nevertheless erroneous, because the
complaint contained a general prayer for "other relief"
and alleged facts on the basis of which a personal judgment for $6,000 could have been recovered even in the
absence of a resulting trust in the realty. Finally, the
Court of Appeals proceeded to examine the depositions
which had been taken in advance of trial. The court
concluded that they showed the existence of a personal
obligation and the case was, therefore, remanded to the
District Court with instructions to enter a personal judgment in favor of the Filsons for $6,000. 84 U. S. App.
D. C. -,171
F. 2d 999. Mrs. Fountain's timely motion
for a modification of this order in order to permit a trial
as to the existence of the personal obligation was denied.
Mrs. Fountain's petition for certiorari, which attacks
only the third portion of the Court of Appeals' ruling
above stated, is granted and the judgment of the Court
of Appeals is reversed. We need not pass on the propriety of an order for summary judgment by a district

FOUNTAIN v. FILSON.
681

Opinion of the Court.

court in favor of one party after the opposite party has
moved for summary judgment in its favor, where it
appears that there is no dispute as to any fact material
to the issue being litigated. For here the order was
made on appeal on a new issue as to which the opposite
party had no opportunity to present a defense before
the trial court. In Globe Liquor Co. v. San Roman,
332 U. S. 571 (1948), and Cone v. West Virginia Paper

Co., 330 U. S. 212 (1947), we held that judgment notwithstanding the verdict could not be given in the
Court of Appeals in favor of a party who had lost in
the trial court and who had not there moved for such
relief. One of the reasons for so holding was that otherwise the party who had won in the trial court would
be deprived of any opportunity to remedy the defect
which the appellate court discovered in his case. He
would have had such an opportunity if a proper motion
had been made by his opponent in the trial court. The
same principle interdicts, a fortiori, the appellate court
order for summary judgment here. Summary judgment
may be given, under Rule 56, only if there is no dispute
as to any material fact. There was no occasion in the
trial court for Mrs. Fountain to dispute the facts material
to a claim that a personal obligation existed, since the
only claim considered by that court on her motion for
summary judgment was the claim that there was a resulting trust. When the Court of Appeals concluded that
the trial court should have considered a claim for personal
judgment it was error for it to deprive Mrs. Fountain
of an opportunity to dispute the facts material to that
claim by ordering summary judgment against her. The
judgment of the Court of Appeals is, therefore, reversed
and the cause remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in accordance with the opinion of the Court
of Appeals as here modified.
Reversed.

