WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.

53

Syllabus.

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY ET AL., TRUSTEES.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF UTAH.

No. 53.

Argued December 6, 1948.-Decided January 31, 1949.

1. In this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, there
was evidence (detailed in the opinion) which would support a jury
finding of negligence on the part of the defendants, and it was
error for the trial court to direct a verdict against the plaintiff.
Pp. 54-61, 63-64.
2. In determining whether there is sufficient evidence to submit an
issue of negligence to the jury, it is necessary to look only to the
evidence and reasonable inferences therefrom which tend to support
the case of the litigant against whom a peremptory instruction has
been given. P. 57.
3. Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, contributory negligence of the plaintiff does not bar recovery for an injury which
was "in part" the result of the defendant's negligence, but the
damages in such case "shall be diminished by the jury in proportion
to the amount of negligence attributable" to the plaintiff. P. 61.
4. The Federal Employers' Liability Act does not make the railroad
an absolute insurer of the safety of its employees, but imposes
liability only for negligence. P. 61.
5. The issue of negligence under the Act is to be determined by the
jury according to whether an employer's conduct measures up to
what a reasonable and prudent person would have done under the
same circumstances. P. 61.
6. The employer is liable for injuries attributable to conditions under
his control when they are not such as a reasonable man ought to
maintain in the circumstances, having in mind that the standard
of care must be commensurate to the dangers of the business.
P. 61.
7. The assumption that, where the issue of negligence under the Act is
left to the jury, railroads practically are made insurers of the safety
of their employees, is inadmissible, since courts should not assume
that, in determining these questions of negligence, juries will fall
short of a fair performance of their constitutional function. Pp.
61-63.
187 P. 2d 188, reversed.
Utah -,
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

In an action brought by petitioner under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, to recover damages for personal
injuries, the trial court directed a verdict for the defendants. The State Supreme Court affirmed. - Utah187 P. 2d 188. This Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S.
807. Reversed, p. 64.
Parnell Black argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Calvin W. Rawlings and Harold E.
Wallace.
Dennis McCarthy argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was Waldemar Q. Van Cott.
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner, a railroad switchman, was injured while
performing duties as an employee of respondents in their
railroad coach yard at Denver, Colorado. He brought
this action for damages under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act.'
The complaint alleged that in the performance of his
duties in the railroad yard it became necessary for him
to walk over a wheel-pit on a narrow boardway, and that
due to negligence of respondents, petitioner fell into the
pit and suffered grievous personal injuries. The complaint further alleged that respondents had failed to
furnish him a safe place to work in several detailed
particulars, namely, that the pit boardway (1) was not
firmly set, (2) was not securely attached, and (3) although only about 20 inches wide, the boardway had
been permitted to become greasy, oily, and slippery,
thereby causing petitioner to lose his balance, slip, and
fall into the pit.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

1 35

Stat. 65 as amended by 36 Stat. 291 and 53 Stat. 1404, 45

U. S. C. §§ 51-59.

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
53

Opinion of the Court.

The respondents in their answer to this complaint
admitted the existence of the pit and petitioner's injuries
as a result of falling into it. They denied, however, that
the injury resulted from the railroad's negligence, charging that plaintiff's own negligence was the sole proximate
cause of his injuries. On motion of the railroad the trial
judge directed the jury to return a verdict in its favor.
The Supreme Court of Utah affirmed, one judge dissenting. Utah - , 187 P. 2d 188.
The opinion of the Utah Supreme Court strongly indicated, as the dissenting judge pointed out, that its finding
of an absence of negligence on the part of the railroad
rested on that court's independent resolution of conflicting testimony. This Court has previously held in many
cases that where jury trials are required, courts must submit the issues of negligence to a jury if evidence might
justify a finding either way on those issues. See, e. g.,
Lavender v. Kurn, 327 U. S. 645, 652-653; Bailey v.
Central Vermont R. Co., 319 U. S. 350, 354; Tiller v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S. 54, 68; and see Brady
v. Southern R. Co., 320 U. S. 476, 479. It was because of
the importance of preserving for litigants in FELA cases
their right to a jury trial that we granted certiorari in
this case.
The evidence showed the following facts without
dispute:
Petitioner fell into the pit July 26, 1945. The pit,
constructed in 1942, ran approximately 40 feet east and
west underneath three or more parallel tracks which
crossed the pit from north to south. The pit was 11
feet deep and 4 feet 21/., inches wide with cement walls
and floor. Car wheels in need of repair were brought to
the pit, lowered into it, there repaired, and then lifted
from the pit for return to use. When not in use the pit
was kept solidly covered with heavy boards. These

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

boards were used as a walkway by all employees. When
the pit was in use the cover boards were removed except
one 75 pound "permanent board" 22 inches wide and
4 feet 21/2 inches long. While the solid covering was
off, this "permanent board," built to fit snugly and firmly,
was unquestionably used as a walkway by all employees
up to about May 1, 1945.
On this latter date, the railroad put up "safety chains"
fastened to guard posts, inclosing 161/ feet of the pit,
on its north, south and west sides. The posts, 42 inches
high, fitted into tubes imbedded in the ground, the tubes
being larger than the posts-enough larger to allow the
posts to work freely. The chains, attached 2 inches
from the top of the posts, were to be kept up while the
pit was in use and taken down when the pit was not in
use. They were up when plaintiff slipped from the "permanent board" into the pit. At that time a tourist car
was standing over the pit on track "231/." This track
"23/2" was east of the two east chain posts, its west rail
being about 36 inches, and the tourist car overhang about
7 inches from the two east chain supporting posts. 2 The
floor of the "overhang" was about 51 inches above the
ground, or 9 inches above the top of the posts, thus
allowing an unobstructed clearance of 51 inches under
the overhang. The "permanent board" was inside the
chain enclosure, the board's east side being about 91/
inches from the two eastern chain posts. Despite the
proximity of the tourist car to the posts there was sufficient space east of each chain post so that pit workers had
access to and used the board as a walkway. One of the
2 There was evidence that other types of cars had a wider overhang
thereby reducing the space available for passage between the posts
and the car. This evidence bore directly on the fact question as
to the practice of employees generally in using the boardway as
petitioner did here.

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
53

Opinion of the Court.

defendant's witnesses, a very large man weighing 250
pounds, passed through it, though according to his testimony, with "very bad discomfort." Petitioner was a
much smaller man, weighing 145 pounds, and it was by
passing between one of these posts and the tourist car that
petitioner reached the "permanent board" which bridged
the pit. Oil from wheels would sometimes accumulate at
the bottom of the pit, and as stated by the Utah Supreme
Court the "permanent board" was "almost certain to
become greasy or oily" from use by the pit-men.
Neither before nor after the chains were put up had
the railroad ever forbidden pit workers or any other
workers to walk across the pit on the "permanent board."
Neither written rules nor spoken instructions had forbidden any employees to use the board. And witnesses
for both sides testified that pit workers were supposed to,
and did, continue to use the board as a walkway after
the chains and posts were installed. The Utah Supreme
Court nevertheless held that erection of the chain and
post enclosure was itself the equivalent of company orders
that no employees other than pit workers should walk
across the permanent board when the chains were up.
And the Utah Supreme Court also concluded that there
was insufficient evidence to authorize a jury finding that
employees generally, as well as pit workers, had continued their long-standing and open practice of crossing
the pit on the permanent board between the time the
chains were put up and the time petitioner was injured.
It is the established rule that in passing upon whether
there is sufficient evidence to submit an issue to the jury
we need look only to the evidence and reasonable inferences which tend to support the case of a litigant against
whom a peremptory instruction has been given. Viewing the evidence here in that way it was sufficient to show
the following:

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

Switchmen and other employees, just as pit workers, continued to use the permanent board to walk
across the pit after the chains were put up as
they had used it before. Petitioner' and another wita Petitioner testified in part as follows:
"Q. Mr. Wilkerson, I will ask you to state whether or not you
have ever observed other switchmen or workmen working in the
yards there in passing over that pit while cars were standing on
231/2 since the safety chains were up?
"A. Yes, sir, I have.
"Q. What has that practice been, the practice of crossing over
the pit?
"A. Men that work around there, regardless of whether switchmen
or car men that wanted to go that way went through there.
"Q. Went through-you mean over the pit?
"A. Over that pit, as I just described, from either side.

"Q. I will ask you to state whether or not you observed any
practice with reference to crossing over the pit when men were working on the cars there in the daytime before these chains were installed?
"A. Walked right straight across the board.
"Q. Was there a board usually there to walk over?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Was there any change in that practice after the chains were
installed ?
"A. None, only they had to walk around the chains.
"Q. What did you observe with reference to the number of times
the occasions when men would cross over the pit.
"A. Oh, I couldn't say; I suppose maybe a hundred times; varies,
men, both switchmen and car men or others working there in the
yard necessary, pullman, employees and so forth.
"Q. Crossed over the pit?
"A. Yes, sir, it was a common practice for everybody to use that
that way.
"Q. Did you ever see-did you ever notice the board ever being
used for any other purpose except men walking across?
"A. No, sir, I haven't.
"Q. Ask you to state whether or not you experience any difficulty

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
53

Opinion of the Court.

ness 4 employed on work around the pit, testified positively that such practice continued. It is true that
witnesses for the respondents testified that after the
chains were put up, only the car men in removing and
in passing between the car and the post and onto the board and

over the board and between the car and the north post at the time
you passed it, the first time in the morning?
"A. No."
4Another witness testified in part as follows:
"Q. And what have you noticed with reference to the practice
of men passing between the standing cars on 231/ and the posts
that hold the safety chains?
"A. Well, they would walk through and get on the board and
walk to and from each side, and the men that work on the pit
work on that board, and sometimes set on the board next to thein next to the car there to perform their work, you know, like where
they are up under, or working on the car, they use the board over
from it to work on.
"Q. What has been your practice in passing between cars that
are standing on 231/2 and the posts that hold the stakes and chains
when they have been in place?
"A. When I have occasion to pass through there, I put my hand
on the post, step over on the board, and go around the other post,
and that is the way I pass to and from on the pit.
"Q. Have you observed other men passing over the pit under
similar circumstances?
"A. Yes, sir, I have.
"Q. And what can you say with reference to the-such occurrences,
as to how often they happen?
"A. 0, I would judge that I saw the men pass through there
dozens of times. ...
"Q. Have you seen any other switchman working there in the
yards act similarly; that is, go around the post, between the post
and the car and pass over the board?
"A. Yes, sir, I have saw my helpers at different times and before
the chains were placed, we used the board at all times, you know,
just to cross the pit. I have walked across the pit a number of times
that way, and also my helpers."
This witness later gave the names of two switchmen he had seen

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

applying wheels used the board "to walk from one side
of the pit to the other . . . ." Thus the conflict as to
continued use of the board as a walkway after erection of
the chains was whether the pit workers alone continued
to use it as a walkway, or whether employees generally
so used it. While this left only a very narrow conflict
in the evidence, it was for the jury, not the court, to
resolve the conflict.
It was only as a result of its inappropriate resolution of
this conflicting evidence that the State Supreme Court
affirmed the action of the trial court in directing the verdict. Following its determination of fact, the Utah Supreme Court acted on the assumption that the respondents "had no knowledge, actual or constructive, that
switchmen were using the plank to carry out their tasks,"
and the railroad had "no reason to suspect" that employees
generally would so use the walkway. From this, the
Court went on to say that respondents "were only required
to keep the board safe for the purposes of the pit crewmen . . . and not for all the employees in the yard."
But the court emphasized that under different facts, maintenance of "a 22-inch board for a walkway, which is almost
certain to become greasy or oily, constitutes negligence."
And under the evidence in this case as to the board, grease
and oil, the court added: "It must be conceded that if
defendants knew or were charged with knowledge that
switchmen and other workmen generally in the yard were
habitually using the plank as a walkway in the manner
claimed by plaintiff, then the safety enclosure might be
entirely inadequate, and a jury question would have been
presented on the condition of the board and the adequacy
of the enclosure."
cross after chains were put up, but he did not thereby qualify his
testimony previously given as to the practice of employees generally
to use the walkway.

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
53

Opinion of the Court.

We agree with this last quoted statement of the Utah
court, and since there was evidence to support a jury finding that employees generally had habitually used the
board as a walkway, it was error for the trial judge to
direct a verdict in favor of respondents.
There was, as the state court pointed out, evidence
to show that petitioner could have taken a slightly longer
route and walked around the pit, thus avoiding the use
of the board. This fact, however, under the terms of the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, would not completely
immunize the respondents from liability if the injury was
"in part" the result of respondents' negligence. For
while petitioner's failure to use a safer method of crossing
might be found by the jury to be contributory negligence,
the Act provides that "contributory negligence shall not
bar a recovery, but the damages shall be diminished by the
jury in proportion to the amount of negligence attributable to such employee ....
Much of respondents' argument here is devoted to the
proposition that the Federal Act does not make the railroad an absolute insurer against personal injury damages
suffered by its employees. That proposition is correct,
since the Act imposes liability only for negligent injuries.
Cf. Coray v. Southern Pac. Co., 335 U. S. 520. But the
issue of negligence is one for juries to determine according
to their finding of whether an employer's conduct measures up to what a reasonable and prudent person would
have done under the same circumstances. And a jury
should hold a master "liable for injuries attributable to
conditions under his control when they are not such as
a reasonable man ought to maintain in the circumstances,"
bearing in mind that "the standard of care must be commensurate to the dangers of the business." Tiller v.
Atlantic C. L. R. Co., 318 U. S. 54, 67.
There are some who think that recent decisions of this
Court which have required submission of negligence ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

tions to a jury make, "for all practical purposes, a railroad
an insurer of its employees." See individual opinion of
Judge Major, Griswold v. Gardner, 155 F. 2d 333, 334.
But see Judge Kerner's dissent from this view at p. 337
and Judge Lindley's dissenting opinion, pp. 337-338.
This assumption, that railroads are made insurers where
the issue of negligence is left to the jury, is inadmissible.
It rests on another assumption, this one unarticulated,
that juries will invariably decide negligence questions
against railroads. This is contrary to fact, as shown for
illustration by other Federal Employers' Liability cases,
Barry v. Reading Co., 147 F. 2d 129, cert. denied, 324
U. S. 867; Benton v. St. Louis-San Francisco R. Co., 182
S. W. 2d 61, cert. denied, 324 U. S. 843. And cf. Bruner
v. McCarthy, 105 Utah 399, 142 P. 2d 649, cert. dismissed
for reasons stated, 323 U. S. 673. Moreover, this Court
stated some sixty years ago when considering the proper
tribunal for determining questions of negligence: "We see
no reason, so long as the jury system is the law of the
land, and the jury is made the tribunal to decide disputed questions of fact, why it should not decide such
questions as these as well as others." Jones v. East
Tennessee R. Co., 128 U. S. 443, 445. And peremptory
instructions should not be given in negligence cases
"where the facts are in dispute, and the evidence in relation to them is that from which fair-minded men may
draw different inferences." Washington & G. R. Co. v.
McDade, 135 U. S. 554, 572. Such has ever since
been the established rule for trial and appellate courts.
See Tiller v. Atlantic C. L. R. Co., 318 U. S. 54, 67, 68.
Courts should not assume that in determining these questions of negligence juries will fall short of a fair performance of their constitutional function. In rejecting a
contention that juries could be expected to determine
certain disputed questions on whim, this Court, speaking

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
Opinion of the Court.

53

through Mr. Justice Holmes, said: "But it must be assumed that the constitutional tribunal does its duty and
finds facts only because they are proved." Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194, 206.
In reaching its conclusion as to negligence, a jury is
frequently called upon to consider many separate strands
of circumstances, and from these circumstances to draw its
ultimate conclusion on the issue of negligence. Here
there are many arguments that could have been presented
to the jury in an effort to persuade it that the railroad's
conduct was not negligent, and many counter arguments
which might have persuaded the jury that the railroad
was negligent. The same thing is true as to whether
petitioner was guilty of contributory negligence. Many
of such arguments were advanced by the Utah Supreme
Court to support its finding that the petitioner was negligent and that the railroad was not.' But the arguments
5The state court argued that "other and safer routes were open"
to the petitioner. But contributory negligence does not exempt a
railroad from liability for its own negligence.
The state court also advanced the following argument: "In this
particular case, the board appears adequate for the use of the pit
crewmen, but entirely inadequate if intended to be a cross-walk for
other employees. Employees climbing in and out of the pit approach
more deliberately, use other and different hand holds, and are more
careful of their footing, while employees swinging on to the plank in
a hurry are apt to forget about the slippery condition of an oily
board and forget about the dangers incident to crossing, as did
the plaintiff, who swung himself around the chain post and onto
the plank." Aside from the apparent absence of direct evidence
that pit crewmen would exercise greater care to protect themselves
than would other employees, whether they would or not is patently
a jury question.
The state court also said: "Had they not intended to preclude
the use of the board as a walk-way, the defendants would not have
installed the chain posts so as to block an open straight approach
to the board." This argument of the state court ignores the absence
823978 0-49----9

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

made by the State Supreme Court are relevant and appropriate only for consideration by the jury, the tribunal
selected to pass on the issues. For these reasons, the
trial court should have submitted the case to the jury,
and it was error for the Utah Supreme Court to affirm its
action in taking the case from the jury.
It is urged by petitioner that other fact issues should
have been submitted to the jury in addition to those
we have specifically pointed out. We need not consider
these contentions now since they may not arise on another
trial of the case.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Utah is reversed
and the cause is remanded for further action not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE

FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

Trial by jury as guaranteed by the Constitution of the
United States and by the several States presupposes a
jury under proper guidance of a disinterested and competent trial judge. Herron v. Southern Pacific Co., 283
U. S. 91. It is an important element of trial by jury
which puts upon the judge the exacting duty of determining whether there is solid evidence on which a jury's
of any direct evidence to show that the chains were erected to keep
people from walking over the old "permanent board" walkway.
Petitioner testified that it was his understanding that the chains
were erected "to keep people from walking directly into the open
pit."
Another argument of the State Supreme Court was: "Also, a
sign not to cross would have afforded plaintiff no additional security
or warning, for he disregarded the chain and he would no doubt
have ignored another form of warning." If such an inference was
justifiable and was relevant at all on the question of railroad negligence, it was an inference to be drawn from facts by the jury, not
by the court.

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
53

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

verdict could be fairly based. When a plaintiff claims
that an injury which he has suffered is attributable to
a defendant's negligence-want of care in the discharge
of a duty which the defendant owed to him-it is the
trial judge's function to determine whether the evidence
in its entirety would rationally support a verdict for
the plaintiff, assuming that the jury took, as it would
be entitled to take, a view of the *evidence most favorable to the plaintiff. If there were a bright line dividing negligence from non-negligence, there would be no
problem. Only an incompetent or a wilful judge would
take a case from the jury when the issue should be
left to the jury. But since questions of negligence are
questions of degree, often very nice differences of degree,
judges of competence and conscience have in the past,
and will in the future, disagree as to whether proof in a
case is sufficient to demand submission to the jury. The
fact that a third court thinks there was enough to leave
the case to the jury does not indicate that the other two
courts were unmindful of the jury's function. The easy
but timid way out for a trial judge is to leave all cases
tried to a jury for jury determination, but in so doing he
fails in his duty to take a case from the jury when the
evidence would not warrant a verdict by it. A timid
judge, like a biased judge, is intrinsically a lawless judge.
These observations are especially pertinent to suits
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. The difficulties in these cases derive largely from the outmoded
concept of "negligence" as a working principle for the
adjustments of injuries inevitable under the technological circumstances of modern industry. This cruel and
wasteful mode of dealing with industrial injuries has long
been displaced in industry generally by the insurance principle that underlies workmen's compensation laws. For
reasons that hardly reflect due regard for the interests

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

of railroad employees, "negligence" remains the basis of
liability for injuries to them. It is, of course, the duty
of courts to enforce the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
however outmoded and unjust in operation it may be.
But so long as negligence rather than workmen's compensation is the basis of recovery, just so long will suits
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act lead to conflicting opinions about "fault" and "proximate cause."
The law reports are full of unedifying proof of these conflicting views, and that too by judges who seek conscientiously to perform their duty by neither leaving everything
to a jury nor, on the other hand, turning the Federal
Employers' Liability Act into a workmen's compensation
law.
Considering the volume and complexity of the cases
which obviously call for decision by this Court, and considering the time and thought that the proper disposition of such cases demands, I do not think we should
take cases merely to review facts already canvassed by
two and sometimes three courts even though those facts
may have been erroneously appraised. The division in
this Court would seem to demonstrate beyond peradventure that nothing is involved in this case except the drawing of allowable inferences from a necessarily unique set
of circumstances. For this Court to take a case which
turns merely on such an appraisal of evidence, however
much hardship in the fallible application of an archaic
system of compensation for injuries to railroad employees
may touch our private sympathy, is to deny due regard
to the considerations which led the Court to ask and
Congress to give the power to control the Court's docket.
Such power carries with it the responsibility of granting
review only in cases that demand adjudication on the
basis of importance to the operation of our federal system; importance of the outcome merely to the parties is

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
53

FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

not enough. It has been our practice to dismiss a writ
of certiorari even after it was granted where argument
exposed a want of conflict or revealed that the case involved no more than its particular facts.' I believe we
should adhere to this practice in the present case.
But the importance of adhering to this practice cannot
be seen in the perspective of a single case. Despite the
mounting burden of the Court's business, this is the
thirtieth occasion in which a petition for certiorari has
been granted during the past decade to review a judgment
denying recovery under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act in a case turning solely on jury issues. The only
petition on behalf of a carrier that brought such a case
here during this period was dismissed, and rightly, as
improvidently granted. McCarthy v. Bruner, 322 U. S.
718; 323 U. S. 673. Nor does what the United States
Reports disclose regarding the disposition of petitions
for certiorari tell the whole story of the Court's exercise
of discretion in granting or denying them. This is so
because of adherence, on the whole, to the wise practice
of not publicly recording the vote of the Justices. Of
course, some light on the situation is derivatively shed
by the disclosed position of the Justices on the merits of
the cases. But the unavailable data are, as can readily
' The reasons for this practice were indicated by Chief Justice
Taft for a unanimous Court in Layne & Bowler Corp. v. Western
Well Works, 261 U. S. 387, 393:
"If it be suggested that as much effort and time as we have given
to the consideration of the alleged conflict would have enabled us
to dispose of the case before us on the merits, the answer is that
it is very important that we be consistent in not granting the writ

of certiorari except in cases involving principles the settlement of
which is of importance to the public as distinguished from that of
the parties, and in cases where there is a real and embarrassing
conflict of opinion and authority between the circuit courts of
appeal. The present case certainly comes under neither head."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

336 U. S.

be imagined, especially relevant in the case of such a recurring problem as granting or denying certiorari under a
particular statute.
I would, therefore, dismiss the petition as having been
improvidently granted. Since, however, that is not to
be done, I too have been obliged to recanvass the record
and likewise think that there was here enough evidence
to go to the jury.
having concurred in the Court's
opinion, also joins in this opinion.
MR.

JUSTICE

BURTON,

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

concurring.

While I join in the opinion of the Court, I think it
appropriate to take this occasion to account for our
stewardship in this group of cases.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act was designed to
put on the railroad industry some of the cost for the legs,
eyes, arms, and lives which it consumed in its operations. Not all these costs were imposed, for the Act did
not make the employer an insurer. The liability which it
imposed was the liability for negligence. But judges
had created numerous defenses-fellow-servant rule, assumption of risk, contributory negligence-so that the
employer was often effectively insulated from liability
even though it was responsible for maintenance of unsafe
conditions of work. The purpose of the Act was to change
that strict rule of liability, to lift from employees the
"prodigious burden" of personal injuries which that system had placed upon them, and to relieve men "who by
the exigencies and necessities of life are bound to labor"
from the risks and hazards that could be avoided or lessened "by the exercise of proper care on the part of the
employer in providing safe and proper machinery and
equipment with which the employee does his work."1
IH. R. Rep. No. 1386, 60th Cong., 1st Sess. 2 (1908).

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
53

DOUGLAS,

J., concurring.

That purpose was not given a friendly reception in the
courts. In the first place, a great maze of restrictive
interpretations were engrafted on the Act, constructions
that deprived the beneficiaries of many of the intended
benefits of the legislation. See SeaboardAir Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492; Toledo, St. L. & W. R. Co. v. Allen,
276 U. S. 165; and the review of the cases in Tiller v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 318 U. S. 54, 62-67. In the
second place, doubtful questions of fact were taken from
the jury and resolved by the courts in favor of the employer. This Court led the way in overturning jury
verdicts rendered for employees. See Chicago, M. & St.
P. R. Co. v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472; Missouri Pac. R. Co.
v. Aeby, 275 U. S. 426; New York Central R. Co. v. Ambrose, 280 U. S. 486. And so it was that a goodly portion
of the relief which Congress had provided employees was
withheld from them.
The first of these obstacles which the courts had created
could be removed by Congress. In 1939 Congress did
indeed move to release the employees from the burden
of assumption of risk which the Court had reimposed on
them. 53 Stat. 1404, 45 U. S. C. § 54; Tiller v. Atlantic
Coast Line R. Co., supra. The second evil was not so
readily susceptible of Congressional correction under a
system where liability is bottomed on negligence. Since
the condition was one created by the Court and beyond
effective control by Congress, it was appropriate and
fitting that the Court correct it. In fact, a decision not
to correct it was to let the administration of this law be
governed not by the aim of the legislation to safeguard
employees but by a hostile philosophy that permeated its
interpretation.
The basis of liability under the Act is and remains
negligence. Judges will not always agree as to what facts
are necessary to establish negligence. We are not in
agreement in all cases. But the review of the cases com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
DOUGLAS, J.,

concurring

336

U. S.

ing to the Court from the 1943 Term to date 2 and set
forth in the Appendix to this opinion shows, I think, a
record more faithful to the design of the Act than previously prevailed.
Of the 55 petitions for certiorari filed during this
period, 20 have been granted. Of these one was granted
at the instance of the employer, 19 at the instance of an
employee. In 16 of these cases the lower court was reversed for setting aside a jury verdict for an employee or
taking the case from the jury. In 3 the lower court was
sustained in taking the case from the jury. In the one
case granted at the instance of the employer we held that
it had received the jury trial on contributory negligence
to which it was entitled. In these 20 cases we were
unanimous in 10 of the decisions which we rendered on the
merits.
Of the 35 petitions denied, 21 were by employers claiming that jury verdicts were erroneous or that new trials
should not have been ordered. The remaining 14 were
filed by employees. In 10 of these the lower court had
withheld the case from the jury and rendered judgment
for the employer, in 3 it had sustained jury verdicts for
the employer, and in 1 reversed a jury verdict for the
employee and directed a new trial.
From this group of cases three observations can be
made:
(1) The basis of liability has not been shifted from
negligence to absolute liability.
(2) The criterion governing the exercise of our discretion in granting or denying certiorari is not who loses
2 Cases where petitions for certiorari were granted this Term but
which have not yet been decided on the merits have not been included.
Nor have cases been included which though arising under the Act
present issues other than those of negligence. Moreover, Wabash
R. Co. v. Williamson, certiorari denied, 330 U. S. 824, has been
omitted since negligence was admitted by the employer, the case
turning on the construction of a railroad rule.

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
53

Appendix to Opinion of

DOUGLAS,

J.

below but whether the jury function in passing on disputed questions of fact and in drawing inferences from
proven facts has been respected.
(3) The historic role of the jury in performing that
function, see Jones v. East Tennessee, V. & G. R. Co., 128
U. S. 443, 445; Washington & G. R. Co. v. McDade, 135
U. S. 554, 572; Bailey v. Central Vermont R. Co., 319
U. S. 350, 353-354, is being restored in this important
class of cases.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

and MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

join

in this opinion.
APPENDIX TO OPINION OF DOUGLAS, J.
I. Cases in which certiorari was granted:
A. Where lower court which took the case from the
jury or set aside a jury verdict for an employee
was reversed:
Tennant v. Peoria & P. U. R. Co., 321 U. S. 29.
Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line, 323 U. S. 574.
Blair v. B. & 0. R. Co., 323 U. S. 600.
Keeton v. Thompson, 326 U. S. 689.
Lavender v. Kurn, 327 U. S. 645.
Cogswell v. Chicago & E. Ill. R. Co., 328 U. S. 820.
Jesionowski v. Boston & M. R. Co., 329 U. S. 452.
Ellis v. Union P. R. Co., 329 U. S. 649.
Pauly v. McCarthy,330 U. S. 802.
Myers v. Reading Co., 331 U. S. 477 (Safety Appliance Act).
Lillie v. Thompson, 332 U. S. 459.
Anderson v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co., 333 U. S.
821.
Eubanks v. Thompson, 334 U. S. 854.
Penn v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 335 U. S. 849.
Coray v. Southern Pacific Co., 335 U. S. 520.
Wilkerson v. McCarthy, 336 U. S. 53.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Appendix to Opinion of

DOUGLAS,

J.

336 U. S.

I. Cases in which certiorari was granted-Continued.
B. Where lower court which set aside a jury verdict
for an employee or rendered judgment for the
employer on questions of law was sustained:
Brady v. Southern R. Co., 320 U. S. 476.
Hunter v. Texas Electric R. Co., 332 U. S. 827.
Eckenrode v. Penn. R. Co., 335 U. S. 329.
C. Where lower court which upheld the jury's verdict
on the issues of negligence and contributory
negligence was sustained:
McCarthy v. Bruner, 323 U. S. 673.
II. Cases in which certiorari was denied:
A. Where lower court withheld case from jury and
rendered judgment for the employer:
Beamer v. Virginian R. Co., 321 U. S. 763.
Cowdrick v. Penn. R. Co, 323 U. S. 799.
Negro v. Boston & Maine R., 324 U. S. 862.
Fantiniv. Reading Co., 325 U. S. 856.
Scarborough v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 326 U. S.
755.
Chisholm v. Reading Co., 329 U. S. 807.
Waller v. Northern P. T. Co., 329 U. S. 742.
Wolfe v. Henwood, 332 U. S. 773.
Lasagna v. McCarthy, 332 U. S. 829.
Trust Co. of Chicago v. Erie R. Co., 334 U. S. 845.
B. Where lower court sustained a jury verdict for the
employer:
Barry v. Reading Co., 324 U. S. 867.
Benton v. St. Louis-S. F. R. Co., 324 U. S. 843.
Benson v. Missouri-Kansas-TexasR. Co., 332 U. S.
830.
C. Where lower court reversed a jury verdict for the
employee and directed a new trial:
Owens v. Union P. R. Co., 323 U. S. 740.

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
53

VINSON,

C. J., dissenting.

II. Cases in which certiorari was denied-Continued.
D. Where lower court sustained jury verdict for the

employee or held that the employee's case
should have gone to the jury:
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jester, 323 U. S. 716.
Thompson v. Godsy, 323 U. S. 719.
Northern P. R. Co. v. Bimberg, 323 U. S. 752.
Terminal R. Assn. v. Copeland, 323 U. S. 799.
Chicago & E. Ill. R. Co. v. Waddell, 323 U. S. 732.
Boston & M. R. v. Cabana,325 U. S. 873.
Texas & P. R. Co. v. Riley, 325 U. S. 873.
Terminal R. Assn. v. Mooney, 326 U. S. 723.
Terminal R. Assn. v. Schorb, 326 U. S. 786.
Baltimore & 0. C. T. R. Co. v. Howard, 328 U. S.
867.
Gardnerv. Griswold, 329 U. S. 725.
Henwood v. Chaney, 329 U. S. 760.
Boston & Maine R. v. Meech, 329 U. S. 763.
Wheeling & L. E. R. Co. v. Keith, 332 U. S. 763.
Delaware, Lackawanna & W. R. Co. v. Mostyn,

332 U. S. 770.
Atlantic Coast Line v. Meeks, 333 U. S. 827.
Wabash R. Co. v. Hampton, 333 U. S. 833.
Fleming v. Husted, 333 U. S.843.
Unity R. Co. v. Kurimsky, 333 U. S. 855.
Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Skidmore, 335 U. S. 816.

E. Where lower court set aside a jury verdict for the
employer because of erroneous instructions and
ordered a new trial:
PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. McCarthy, 329 U. S. 812.

dissenting.
In my view of the record, there is no evidence, nor any
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON,

inference which reasonably may be drawn from the evi-

dence when viewed in the light most favorable to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

petitioner, which could sustain a verdict for him. This
leads me to conclude that the trial court properly directed
a verdict for the respondents, and I would affirm.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.

The trial court, after hearing all the evidence and seeing
the witnesses, directed a verdict of no cause of action.
The Utah Supreme Court, in a careful opinion, decided
two propositions: First, whether this Court still holds
that a plaintiff "in order to recover must still show
negligence on the part of the employer." It resolved
its doubts by relying upon statements of this Court to
the effect that it still does adhere to that requirement.'
Second, whether there is any evidence of negligence. On
I The Supreme Court of Utah considered and rejected the opinion
in Griswold v. Gardner, 155 F. 2d 333, in which it was said:
"Any detailed review of the evidence in a case of this character
for the purpose of determining the propriety of the trial court's
refusal to direct a verdict would be an idle and useless ceremony
in the light of the recent decisions of the Supreme Court. This
is so regardless of what we might think of the sufficiency of the
evidence in this respect. The fact is, so we think, that the Supreme
Court has in effect converted this negligence statute into a compensation law thereby making, for all practical purposes, a railroad an
insurer of its employees. (See dissent of Mr. Justice Roberts in
Bailey v. Central Vermont Ry., 319 U. S. 350, 358, 63 S. Ct. 1062,
1066, 87 L. Ed. 1444.)
"The Supreme Court, commencing with Tiller v. Atlantic Coastline R. Co., 318 U. S. 54, 63 S. Ct. 444, 87 L. Ed. 610, 143 A. L. R.
967, in a succession of cases has reversed every court (with one
exception hereinafter noted) which has held that a defendant was
entitled to a directed verdict. In the Tiller case, the Supreme Court
reversed the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, 128 F. 2d
420, which had affirmed the District Court in directing a verdict.
The case, upon remand, was again tried in the court below, where
a directed verdict was denied. For this denial the Court of Appeals
reversed and again the Supreme Court reversed the Court of Appeals,

WILKERSON v. McCARTHY.
53

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

a careful analysis, it found no evidence whatever of negligence in this case. Following established principles of
law, it concluded that it would have been error to let
such a case go to the jury, and therefore affirmed the
trial court's refusal so to do.
This Court now reverses and, to my mind at least,
espouses the doctrine that any time a trial or appellate
court weighs evidence or examines facts it is usurping
the jury's function. But under that rule every claim of
injury would require jury trial, even if the evidence
showed no possible basis for a finding of negligence.
Determination of whether there could be such a basis
is a function of the trial court, even though it involves
weighing evidence and examining facts. I think we are
under a duty to examine the record impartially if we
take such cases and to sustain the lower courts where,
holding that the District Court properly submitted the case to the
jury. In Tennant v. Peoria & P. U. R. Co., 321 U. S. 29, 64 S. Ct.
409, 88 L. Ed. 520, this court reversed the District Court on account
of its refusal to direct a verdict, and our decision, 134 F. 2d 860,
was reversed by the Supreme Court. In Bailey v. Central Vermont
Ry., 319 U. S. 350, 63 S. Ct. 1062, 87 L. Ed. 1444, the Supreme
Court of Vermont held that there should have been a directed verdict
for the defendant, and the Supreme Court reversed the decision of
that court. In Blair v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 323 U. S. 600, 65
S. Ct. 545, 89 L. Ed. 490, the Supreme Court reversed the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania which had held that there should have been
a directed verdict. In the recent case of Lavender, Administrator,
etc., v. Kurn et al., [327 U. S. 645] 66 S. Ct. 740, the Supreme Court
reversed the Supreme Court of Missouri which had held that there
should have been a directed verdict for each of the defendants.
"The only exception to this unbroken line of decisions is Brady
v. Southern R. Co., 320 U. S. 476, 64 S. Ct. 232, 88 L. Ed. 239,
where the Supreme Court of North Carolina was affirmed in its
holding that there should have been a directed verdict. This exception, however, is of little consequence in view of the fact that four
members of the court dissented."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

as here, a finding of negligence would obviously be without basis in fact.
I am not unaware that even in this opinion the Court
continues to pay lip service to the doctrine that liability.
in these cases is to be based only upon fault. But its
standard of fault is such in this case as to indicate that
the principle is without much practical meaning.
This record shows that both the wheel pit into which
plaintiff fell and the board on which he was trying to
cross over the pit were blocked off by safety chains strung
between posts. Plaintiff admits he knew the chains were
there to keep him from crossing over the pit and to
require him to go a few feet farther to walk around it.
After the chains were put up, any person undertaking
to use the board as a cross walk had to complete involved
contortions and gymnastics, particularly when, as was the
case with petitioner, a car was on the track 231/2. A
casual examination of the model filed as an exhibit in
this Court shows how difficult was such a passage. Nevertheless, the Court holds that if employees succeeded in
disregarding the chains and forced passage frequently
enough to be considered "customary," and the railroad
took no further action, its failure so to do was negligence.
The same rule would no doubt apply if the railroad's
precautions had consisted of a barricade, or an armed
guard. I think the railroad here could not fairly be found
guilty of negligence and that there was no jury question.
If in this class of cases, which forms a growing proportion of its total, this Court really is applying accepted
principles of an old body of liability law in which lower
courts are generally experienced, I do not see why they are
so baffled and confused at what goes on here. On the
other hand, if this Court considers a reform of this law
appropriate and within the judicial power to promulgate,
I do not see why it should constantly deny that it is doing
just that.

KOVACS v. COOPER.
53

Syllabus.

I think a comparison of the State Supreme Court's
opinion, - Utah - , 187 P. 2d 188, with the opinion of
this Court will fairly raise, in the minds of courts below
and of the profession, the question I leave to their perspicacity to answer: In which proposition did the Supreme Court of Utah really err?

KOVACS v. COOPER, JUDGE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW
JERSEY.

No. 9.

Submitted October 11, 1948.-Decided January 31, 1949.

An ordinance of Trenton, New Jersey, forbids the use or operation
on the public streets of a "sound truck" or of any instrument
which emits "loud and raucous noises" and is attached to a vehicle
on the public streets. Held: As applied to the defendant in this
case, it does not infringe the right of free speech in violation of
the First Amendment, made applicable to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 78-79, 89.
135 N. J. L. 584, 52 A. 2d 806, affirmed.

Appellant was convicted in Police Court for violation
of an ordinance of Trenton, New Jersey. The New Jersey
Supreme Court upheld the conviction, 135 N. J. L. 64,
50 A. 2d 451, and the Court of Errors and Appeals
affirmed by an equally divided court. 135 N. J. L. 584,
52 A. 2d 806. On appeal to this Court, affirmed, p. 89.
George Pellettieri submitted on brief for appellant.
Louis Josephson submitted on brief for appellee.
Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by
Osmond K. Fraenkel and Samuel Rothbard for the American Civil Liberties Union; and Lee Pressman,FrankDonner, M. H. Goldstein, Isadore Katz, Irving J. Levy, David
Rein and Benjamin C. Sigal for the Congress of Industrial
Organizations et al.

