OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

336 U. S.

If the attempt had been made to bring No. 474 here
prematurely it would surely have failed. It should not
succeed because No. 52 was improperly brought here.
Accordingly I agree with the Court in dismissing No.
52 for want of jurisdiction, and in No. 474 1 would deny
the petition for certiorari.

BLACK DIAMOND STEAMSHIP CORP. v. ROBERT
STEWART & SONS, LTD. ET AL.
NO.

121.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES
APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.*

COURT OF

Argued January 3-4, 1949.-Decided March 14, 1949.
A vessel owned by the United States and chartered under a bareboat
charter to an American corporation collided with a British vessel
in territorial waters of Belgium. The British vessel sank with all
of her cargo; her chief steward was killed; and the American
vessel damaged the bank of the river. Owners of the British
vessel sued the charterer of the American vessel in England, claiming damages of $1,000,000. Owners of the cargo of the British
vessel sued the United States and the charterer of the American
vessel in a federal district court for claims aggregating nearly
$1,000,000. Alleging that the value of the American vessel was
about $1,000,000, that the total claims would exceed that amount,
and that their liability under Belgian law was limited to $325,000,
the United States and the charterer petitioned the District Court
for limitation of liability under R. S. § 4285, as amended, 46
U. S. C. § 185. The United States posted no bond and the
charterer posted a bond of only $325,000. The District Court
dismissed the petition and the Court of Appeals affirmed. Held:
The District Court should not have dismissed the petition but
should have required the charterer (but not the United States)
to post a bond of $1,000,000, to guard against the possibility that
American law, and not Belgian law, might be found to control
the amount of liability. Pp. 388-399.
*Together with No. 130, United States v. Robert Stewart & Sons,
Ltd. et al., also on certiorari to the same court.

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

387

Counsel for Parties.

1. R. S. § 4285 is applicable, because the total amount of potential claims exceeds the fund available for their satisfaction, whether
that fund be measured by the law of Belgium or of the United
States. Pp. 393-394.
2. Under 28 U. S. C. § 2408 and 46 U. S. C. § 743, the United
States is not required to post a bond in a proceeding under R. S.
§ 4285. P. 394.
3. In view of the six-month limitation on proceedings under
R. S. § 4285, the Court of Appeals, instead of affirming the dismissal, should have remanded the case to the District Court in
order to give the charterer an opportunity to file a larger bond,
since the defect was not jurisdictional. P. 395.
4. If the Belgian law is not merely procedural but attaches to
the right of recovery and if it does not conflict with any overriding domestic policy, it is applicable in this case. Pp. 395-396.
5. The Belgian law having been pleaded, it must be proved
as a fact-even though it is derived from the Brussels Convention
of August 25, 1924, limiting the liability of owners of seagoing
vessels. Pp. 396-397.
6. Upon remand, the question of what law governs the substantive limit of liability should be determined in advance of the
proof of individual claims. Pp. 397-398.
7. If Belgian law is found to control, a $325,000 bond would
suffice; but, if American law is found to control, a $1,000,000 bond
would be required. P. 398.
8. The District Court, in the exercise of its power to preserve
the 8tatus quo pending appeal, should require the charterer to
post a bond for the value of the ship and freight. Pp. 398-399.
167 F. 2d 308, reversed.

A federal district court dismissed a petition of the
United States and the charterer of one of its vessels for
limitation of liability under R. S. § 4285, as amended, 46
U. S. C. § 185. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 167 F.
2d 308. This Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 809.
Reversed and remanded, p. 399.
John W. Crandallargued the cause and filed a brief for

petitioner in No. 121.
Philip Elman argued the cause for the United States,

petitioner in No. 130.

With him on the brief were

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

Solicitor General Perlman, Assistant Attorney General
Morison, Samuel D. Slade and Morton Hollander.
William G. Symmers argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Wilbur E. Dow, Jr. and
Frederick Fish.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We brought these cases here because they call for determination of important issues in the administration of
admiralty law. 335 U. S. 809. They bring for review
a decree of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
affirming the dismissal of a petition for limited liability
brought in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of New York by the United States
as owner and the Black Diamond Steamship Corporation
as bareboat charterer of the S. S. Norwalk Victory. 167
F. 2d 308.
The facts controlling our decision are briefly these.
On April 28, 1947, the Norwalk Victory, while proceeding
down the Schelde River in the territorial waters of Belgium, collided with the British steamer Merganser. The
Merganser sank with all her cargo; her chief steward was
killed; in backing away from the Merganser the Norwalk
Victory struck and damaged the bank of the Schelde.
Soon after the collision the owners of the Merganser
brought suit against Black Diamond in the High Court
of Justice of England claiming damages in the amount
of $1,000,000. That is the only proceeding which has
been brought abroad. On October 14, 1947, the owners
of the cargo lost in the sinking of the Merganser brought
suit in the Eastern District of New York; aggregate
claims thus far filed total nearly $1,000,000.
In their petition for limitation of liability, brought
under R. S. § 4285, as amended, 49 Stat. 1480, 46 U. S. C.

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

389

Opinion of the Court.

§ 185,1 the United States and Black Diamond allege the
possibility that in addition to the suit in the High Court
of Justice and the suits by the cargo owners in New
York, there may be suits in the courts of the United
States by other cargo owners, by the personal representative of the Merganser'schief steward, and by the Belgian
Government for damages to the bank of the Schelde and
for the cost of removing the wreck of the Merganserfrom
the river. These claims, they say, would exceed the value
of the Norwalk Victory, which is about $1,000,000. But
the petitioners, despite the provisions of R. S. § 4283,
as amended, 49 Stat. 1479, 46 U. S. C. § 183,2 do not rec1 "SEc.

4285. The vessel owner, within six months after a claimant

shall have given to or filed with such owner written notice of claim,
may petition a district court of the United States of competent
jurisdiction for limitation of liability within the provisions of this
chapter, as amended, and the owner (a) shall deposit with the court,
for the benefit of claimants, a sum equal to the amount or value of
the interest of such owner in the vessel and freight, or approved
security therefor, and in addition such sums, or approved security
therefor, as the court may from time to time fix as necessary to
carry out the provisions of section 4283, as amended, or (b) at his
option shall transfer, for the benefit of claimants, to a trustee to be
appointed by the court his interest in the vessel and freight, together
with such sums, or approved security therefor, as the court may
from time to time fix as necessary to carry out the provisions of section 4283, as amended. Upon compliance with the requirements of
this section all claims and proceedings against the owner with respect
to the matter in question shall cease."
2 "SEc. 4283. (a) The liability of the owner of any vessel, whether
American or foreign, for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction by
any person of any property, goods, or merchandise shipped or put
on board of such vessel, or for any loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for any act, matter, or thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture,
done, occasioned, or incurred, without the privity or knowledge of
such owner or owners, shall not, except in the cases provided for
in subsection (b) of this section, exceed the amount or value of
the interest of such owner in such vessel, and her freight then
pending."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

ognize the value of their ship as the limit of their liability.
They insist, rather, that their liability is limited by the
International Convention for the Unification of Certain
Rules relating to the Limitation of the Liability of
Owners of Seagoing Vessels, signed at Brussels on August
25, 1924.' The Convention was ratified by Belgium on
3 The

pertinent parts of the Convention, published in U. S. Dept.
of State Treaty Information Bull. No. 20, p. 13 (1931), are:
"ARTICLE 1

"The liability of the owner of a seagoing vessel is limited to an
amount equal to the value of the vessel, the freight, and the accessories of the vessel, in respect of"1. Compensation due to third parties by reason of damage caused,
whether on land or on water, by the acts or faults of the master,
crew, pilot, or any other person in the service of the vessel;
"2. Compensation due by reason of damage caused either to cargo
delivered to the master to be transported, or to any goods and
property on board;
"5. Any obligation to remove the wreck of a sunken vessel, and
any obligations connected therewith;
"Provided that, as regards the cases mentioned in Nos. 1, 2, 3,
4, and 5 the liability referred to in the preceding provisions shall
not exceed an aggregate sum equal to 8 pounds sterling per ton of the
vessel's tonnage.
"ARTICLE

4

"The freight referred to in article 1, including passage money, is
deemed, as respects vessels of every description, to be a lump sum
fixed at all events at 10 per cent of the value of the vessel at the
commencement of the voyage. . ..
"ARTICLE

7

"Where death or bodily injury is caused by the acts or faults
of the captain, crew, pilot, or any other person in the service of the
vessel, the owner of the vessel is liable to the victims or their representatives in an amount exceeding the limit of liability provided for

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

391

Opinion of the Court.

June 2, 1930, and took effect on June 2, 1931; it is
alleged, therefore, to have been part of the territorial
law of Belgium at the time of this collision in Belgian
waters. On the basis of this Convention, the petitioners
assert their maximum liability to be $325,028.79.
Accordingly, Black Diamond accompanied its petition
for limitation of liability with a bond in the amount of
$325,028.79. The United States, standing upon 28
U. S. C. § 2408' and § 3 of the Suits in Admiralty Act,
41 Stat. 526, as amended, 46 U. S. C. § 743, filed no bond.
The District Court, holding that the privilege of limiting
liability relates "not to the substantive rights giving rise
to the liability, but to the remedy, and that is governed
by the law of the forum," dismissed the petition on the
ground that Black Diamond had not complied with R. S.
in the preceding articles up to 8 pounds sterling per ton of the vessel's
tonnage....
"ARTICLE

10

"Where the person who operates the vessel without owning it or
the principal charterer is liable under one of the heads enumerated
in article 1, the provisions of this convention are applicable to him.
"ARTICLE 11

"For the purposes of the provisions of the present convention,
'tonnage' is calculated as follows:
"In the case of steamers and other mechanically propelled vessels,
net tonnage, with the addition of the amount deducted from the gross
tonnage on account of engine-room space for the purpose of ascertaining the net tonnage. ..."
4 "§ 2408. Security not required of United States
"Security for damages or costs shall not be required of the United
States, any department or agency thereof or any party acting under
the direction of any such department or agency on the issuance of
process or the institution or prosecution of any proceeding. . ....
5,§743. Procedure in cases of libel in personam.
.Neither the United States nor such corporation shall be
required to give any bond or admiralty stipulation on any proceeding
brought hereunder."

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

§ 4285 by filing a bond in the amount of the value of the
ship-$1,000,000. The standing of the United States
(which was not separately represented at that stage of
the proceeding) was not considered.
Upon appeal, the petitioners were found to be in "a
dilemma from which they cannot escape." 167 F. 2d
at 309. Reading the petition as alleging that the Belgian
limitation attached to the claimants' substantive right
to recover, and treating that allegation as proved for
purposes of determining the sufficiency of the petition,
the Court accepted arguendo the sum of $325,000 as "the
limit of all their [petitioners'] liabilities." Ibid. But
though the Court of Appeals looked to the lex loci delicti
for the substantive limit of liability, its next step was
taken on the assumption that the conditions under which
a petition praying for the injunction of other proceedings
and a forum concursus may be filed are matters of procedure governed by the lex fori. It is a condition imposed
by the lex fori, the court's reasoning continued, that a
petition for limitation of liability is not available to a
shipowner unless the aggregate of known and probable
claims against him is greater than the value of his ship.
As establishing this proposition, the court cited The
Aquitania, 20 F. 2d 457 (C. A. 2d Cir.); Curtis Bay Towing Co. v. Tug Kevin Moran, 159 F. 2d 273 (C. A. 2d
Cir.); and The George W. Fields, 237 F. 403 (S. D. N. Y.).
And it held these cases applicable on the ground that the
maximum liability imposed by Belgian law was less than
the value of the Norwalk Victory.
But the lower court found it unnecessary to pass
finally on the question whether the Belgian limitation was in fact controlling because, if it were not,
petitioners would be impaled on the other horn of the
dilemma: if the substantive law of the forum rather
than that of Belgium applied, the limit of liability,
by R. S. § 4283, would be the value of the vessel.

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

393

Opinion of the Court.

Since the procedural law of the forum, moreover, requires the posting of a bond in the amount of potential
liability, and since the bond proposed by petitioners was
for less than a third of that amount, upon this hypothesis
also they were disentitled to proceed. The Court of Appeals accordingly affirmed the dismissal of the petition.
If the Court of Appeals' reliance upon The Aquitania,
Curtis Bay Towing Co. v. Tug Kevin Moran, and The
George W. Fields, supra, was, as we are convinced, under
the circumstances misplaced, we escape its dilemma without wanting in respect for the wisdom of that most experienced of admiralty courts. Those cases, it is true,
hold that where the aggregate claims against a shipowner
can by no possibility exceed the value of his ship, a proceeding under R. S. § 4285 will not lie. But the value of
the ship was relevant in those cases only because under
the law of the United States, which was assumed to be
applicable, that was the limit of the owner's liability.
Since the total amount of all potential claims in each case
was only a fraction of that limit, the fund available for
their satisfaction was more than ample. There was no
reason, therefore, for permitting the petitioners to invoke
a forum concursus. But where, as here, the total amount
of potential claims exceeds the fund available for their
satisfaction, whether that fund be measured by the law of
Belgium or of the United States, there exists just such a
situation as R. S. § 4285 was designed to meet.
"Unless some proceeding of this kind were adopted
which should bring all the parties interested into one
litigation, and all the claimants into concourse for
a pro rata distribution of the common fund, it is
manifest that in most cases the benefits of the act
could never be realized. Cases might occur, it is
true, in which the ship owners could avail themselves
of those benefits, by way of defence alone, as where
both ship and freight are totally lost, so that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

owners are relieved from all liability Whatever. But
even in that case, in the absence of a remedy by
which they could obtain a decree of exemption as
to all claimants, they would be liable to a diversity
of suits, brought perhaps in different States, after
long periods of time, when the witnesses have been
dispersed, and issuing in contrary results before different tribunals; whilst in the ordinary cases, where
a limited liability to some extent exists, but to an
amount less than the aggregate claims for damages,
so as to require a concourse of claimants and a pro
rata distribution, the prosecution of separate suits,
if allowed to proceed, would result in a subversion
of the whole object and scheme of the statute."
Providence & N. Y. S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co., 109
U. S.578, 594-95.
Indeed, if the total amount recoverable is fixed by Belgian
law, the need for the issuance of a monition under Admiralty Rule 51, the injunction of other suits, and a
forum concursus is obviously greater than it is under the
higher substantive limitation of our own law. Thus one
of the horns of petitioners' dilemma disappears; we must,
accordingly, reverse the judgment below and remand the
cases for further proceedings.
Since the cases are going back, it is necessary to confront the other horn of the dilemma. In that branch
of its reasoning, the Court of Appeals assumed that the
posting of too small a bond would require the dismissal
of the petition. The court's attention apparently was
not directed to the status of the Government, which, by
the plain import of 28 U. S. C. § 2408 ' and 41 Stat. 525,
as amended, 46 U. S. C. § 743,' relieves it of the duty
to post a bond in order to be entitled to proceed under
6 See footnote 4 ante.
7

See footnote 5 ante.

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

395

Opinion of the Court.

R. S. § 4285. And perhaps it is well to add, in passing,
that, in view of the six-month limitation 8 on proceeding
under that statute, remand to the District Court in
order to give Black Diamond an opportunity to file a
larger bond would have been a better course, since the
defect was not jurisdictional, than affirmance of dismissal
of the petition. See Langnes v. Green,282 U. S. 531, 54142; Curtis Bay Towing Co. v. Tug Kevin Moran, 159 F.
2d 273, 276; cf. Bigler v. Waller, 12 Wall. 142, 149; Davis
v. Wakelee, 156 U. S. 680. We add this observation because, under the circumstances, affirmance could only have
had the effect of depriving the petitioners altogether of the
privilege of a limitation proceeding, no matter what the
amount of the bond they were willing to post. It threw
them back upon the dubious advantage of limitation of
liability as a partial defense to successive suits in admiralty in which the recoveries, though separately less than
the applicable limit, might in the aggregate far exceed
it. And such would be the effect were we also to affirm
the judgment.
Having decided that the case must be remanded because the petition was improperly dismissed, we turn to
the question whether there are any circumstances under
which the Belgian limitation would be enforceable by
our courts. On this point we agree with the Court of
Appeals-and disagree with the District Court-that
if, indeed, the Belgian limitation attaches to the right,
then nothing in The Titanic, 233 U. S. 718, stands in
the way of observing that limitation. The Court in
that case was dealing with "a liability assumed already
to exist on other grounds." Id. at 733. But if it is the
law of Belgium that the wrong creates no greater liability
than that recognized by the Convention of 1924, we
cannot, without more, regard our own statutes as ex8 See footnote 1 ante.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

panding the right to recover. Any other conclusion would
disregard the settled principle that, in the absence of some
overriding domestic policy translated into law, the
right to recover for a tort depends upon and is measured by the law of the place where the tort occurred.
Smith v. Condry, 1 How. 28, 33; Slater v. Mexican National R. Co., 194 U. S. 120; Cuba R. Co. v. Crosby,
222 U. S. 473; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Brown,
234 U. S. 542.
If, on the other hand, the Convention merely provides procedural machinery by which claims otherwise
created are brought into concourse and scaled down
to their proportionate share of a limited fund, we
would respect the equally well settled principle that the
forum is not governed by foreign rules of procedure. See
Pritchardv. Norton, 106 U. S. 124; Davis v. Mills, 194
U. S. 451. We leave open the choice between these
opposing hypotheses. Nor do we mean to imply that
these apparently clear-cut alternatives are exhaustive. A
limit which attaches not to an individual's right of recovery but to the aggregate claims arising from a given
tort can be said to be "attached to the right" only in
a special sense of that phrase, and a rule which operates to cut down the amount recoverable by a claimant
cannot be fitted within any but a very broad definition
of the term "procedure." Whether they are in fact
considerations of domestic policy which deserve to be
measured against application of the lex loci delicti and
whether such considerations are as significant where the
foreign limitation is lower than our own as where it
is higher-these too are questions not now before us in
view of the fact that the case is here merely on exceptions to the petition for limitation of liability.
Since Belgian law may be enforceable by our courts,
that law, having been pleaded, must be established. It
is true that this Court has on several occasions held

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

397

Opinion of the Court.

international rules which had passed into the "general
maritime law" to be subject to judicial notice. The
Scotia, 14 Wall. 170; The Belgenland, 114 U. S. 355,
370; Richelieu & Ontario Nay. Co. v. Boston Marine
Ins. Co., 136 U. S. 408, 422; The New York, 175 U. S.
187. But where less widely recognized rules of foreign
maritime law have been involved, the Court has adhered to the general principle that foreign law is to be
proved as a fact. Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins.
Co., 129 U. S. 397; see Talbot v. Seeman, 1 Cranch 1,
38; The Scotia, 14 Wall. 170, 188. See also the decisions of the lower federal courts cited in 3 Benedict on
Admiralty 11, n. 36 (6th ed., Knauth, 1940). Although
we would no doubt be free to notice the terms of the
Limitation Convention itself even though they were not
set forth among the allegations of the petition, their legal
significance does not appear on the surface. "Many
doubts are left unresolved by the documents before us."
Slater v. Mexican National R. Co., supra, 194 U. S. at
130. Respondents, indeed, in their effort to show that
the Convention lays down purely "procedural" requirements, rely upon "personal consultations with three active maritime lawyers of Antwerp" which are no part
of the record before us. "Substance" and "procedure,"
moreover, are not legal concepts of invariant content,
see Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326 U. S. 99, 109, and
on the basis of what is before us we are precluded from
choosing one of these categories rather than the other.
It is important to add, moreover, that the question of
what law governs the substantive limit of liability should
be determined upon remand in advance of the proof of
individual claims. A proceeding to limit liability is ipso
facto a proceeding to limit recovery, and the amount of
the applicable limit, like the value of the vessel and
freight, is a question affecting the magnitude of the res
from which recovery is sought. It is a question, therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

which lies at the threshold of all claims, is equally relevant
to all, and should accordingly be disposed of before any.
One last point remains to be considered-the amount
of the bond to be required of Black Diamond upon remand of No. 121. A literal reading of the procedural
requirements of R. S. § 4285 would compel the posting
of a bond in "a sum equal to the amount or value of the
interest of such owner in the vessel and freight," in this
instance about $1,000,000. But we think that this provision, as part of a total legislative scheme, should be
read in the light of the substantive limitation imposed
by R. S. § 4283, for it is obvious that the words "amount
or value of the interest of such owner" in § 4285 were
carried over from and are relevant solely to the identical
language of § 4283 laying down the limit which recovery
against the owner "shall not . . . exceed." The whole
tenor of R. S. § 4285-the option of depositing cash or
"approved security," the discretion granted the court to
require additional deposits if "necessary to carry out the
provisions of section 4283," and the alternative of transferring the vessel and freight to a trustee-is one of concern with protecting the assets from which the claimants'
satisfaction must ultimately come.
If, therefore, Belgian law rather than R. S. § 4283
should be found to govern the substantive limit of liability, no purpose would be served, so far as proceedings
in the District Court are concerned, by demanding security in excess of that limit. But the choice of law presents a knotty problem, and we cannot overlook the
contingencies of appellate review. If the District Court
should find Belgian law controlling, it might, under our
interpretation of § 4285, exact a bond of only $325,000.
If, however, a contrary view should ultimately prevail,
the requisite amount of the bond would have been
$1,000,000. The District Court, therefore, should provide for that contingency by requiring Black Diamond to

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

JACKSON,

399

J., dissenting.

post a bond for the value of the ship and freight, not
because § 4285 demands it, but as an exercise of its power
to preserve the status quo pending appeal. See ScrippsHoward Radio, Inc. v. F. C. C., 316 U. S. 4, 9-10.
So, for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion,
the case is
Reversed and remanded.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.

I suspect this decision will cause confusion in practical
application of the Act of Congress governing limitation
proceedings in admiralty.
The Act is designed to encourage American capital to
risk itself in shipping ventures where "ships are but
boards, sailors but men: . . . and then there is the peril

of waters, winds, and rocks." In order that disaster at
sea might not jeopardize the shipowner's other assets,
Congress limited his liability to the "value of the interest
of such owner in such vessel, and her freight then pending." R. S. § 4283, as amended, 49 Stat. 1479, 46
U. S. C. § 183.1 This limitation serves much the same
purpose for maritime ventures that the corporate fiction
serves for the landsman's enterprises.
The statute also provides a skeleton proceeding, filled
in by our rules, for affirmatively effecting this limitation
of liability when catastrophe threatens claims that exceed
the value of ship and freight. To a landlocked mind it
has some analogy to voluntary bankruptcy. It is, in
liability of the owner of any vessel, whether American or
foreign, for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction by any person of
any property, goods, or merchandise shipped or put on board of
such vessel, or for any loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for any
act, matter, or thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture, done, occasioned, or
incurred, without the privity or knowledge of such owner or owners,
shall not . . . exceed the amount or value of the interest of such
owner in such vessel, and her freight then pending."
1 "The

823978 0-49-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

effect, a turn-over of the assets at risk to satisfy creditors.
The owner may, after petitioning the District Court for
limitation of liability, either transfer to a trustee his
interest in the vessel and freight, together with enough
to make up the limitation, and be quit of further responsibility, or he may keep his ship and sail on, provided he
shall deposit with the court "a sum equal to the amount
or value of the interest of such owner in the vessel and
freight, or approved security therefor." R. S. § 4285, as
amended, 49 Stat. 1480, 46 U. S. C. § 185.
Our statute is clear: § 4283 fixes the maximum liability
at ship plus freight and § 4285 sets the minimum
security at the same figure. To provide any other limit
of liability or security is to rewrite both sections. As
written, the two sections provide and are designed to provide a provisional remedy to let the ship go her way
while the creditors are secured as well as if she were held
in custody to pay their claims.
Our own rules in admiralty, as amended June 21, 1948,
prescribe the practice for applying this limitation when
the shipowner takes the initiative under R. S. § 4285.
The proceeding is conducted in two stages. In the first
or preliminary stage the owner petitions for relief from
personal liability, is required either to surrender his interest in the ship and her freight or to stipulate, with
adequate bond, to pay into court its value. The statute
says, "Upon compliance with the requirements of this
section all claims and proceedings against the owner with
respect to the matter in question shall cease." At this
point an important change in the nature of the proceeding
occurs.
The proceeding continues as a proceeding in rem
against either the ship or the fund as the res. Our rules
provide that when petitioner complies with the court's
order as to surrender or bond, the court shall issue a
monition requiring all persons asserting claims to file the

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

JACKSON,

401

J., dissenting.

same and may also issue injunction against the further
prosecution of suits against either the owner or the vessel.
Rule 51. The court then adjudicates the claims and
apportions the available fund among them. Rule 52.
The owner is at liberty to contest his liability or the
liability of the vessel "provided he shall have complied"
with the requirements of surrender or deposit as above
set forth. Rule 53.
We think such compliance is a condition precedent to
obtaining a forum concursus to adjudicate liability. As
the petitioner in this case did not post the security nor
surrender the ship as required, the court below properly
dismissed the petition and refused to enter the second
or adjudicating stage of the proceeding.
This Court apparently holds that compliance is not a
condition precedent and that instead of the vessel's value
some other measure of liability might be adequate. While
it requires the prescribed bond in this particular case, it
does so, as we read its opinion, only as a matter of discretion and because of uncertainty as to the final decision
on the foreign law issue on appeal. It seems to authorize
a foreign law limitation on liability to be applied before
a forum concursus takes place, while we think any issue
as foreign law liability is to be applied only in the latter
stage of the proceedings when the general issues as to
liability are to be determined.
Congress could not have been unaware that maritime
usages the world over have imposed some limitation upon
ship-owners' liability and that several bases for its ascertainment have existed. Some systems have admitted no
personal liability of the owner, confining liability to the
ship itself; others have limited the owner's personal
responsibility on his abandonment of the ship and freight.
Still others have limited personal responsibility to payment of a sum computed on the ship's tonnage. Congress, however, has deliberately imposed and adhered to

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

our own measure of liability based on the actual value of
the interest in the ship and her freight. We think there
is no authority for releasing the owner from liability,
or releasing the ship, which are the steps now under
consideration, until the owner has complied with provisions which fully protect this American measure of
liability.
In this case, the reason the owners did not comply
with the American limitation provision is that they aver
that on the Schelde, where the collision occurred, Belgian
law granted a much more drastic limitation, under which
their liability is only about one-third of that imposed
by our law. The court below held that release of the
owner and ship, and invocation of a forum concursus,
could not be granted on this basis. But it held that if
they had complied with provisions of American law necessary to reach the question of the amount of aggregate
liability, they were at liberty to interpose the Belgian law
as a defense. The Court now holds that this question
of fact-what is the foreign law?-should be determined
as a part of the preliminary step in the case and that
the bond may be limited thereby. We think this is not
the scheme of the statute and the rules and that, except
for issues subsidiary to the court's fixing of the security
required under Rule 51, all matters of fact, going to the
substance of liability, are to be heard only at the later
stages of the proceedings.
The limitation figure is established preliminarily, not
because it represents the res, but because the statute and
rules prescribe that formula and procedure for fixing
both the maximum liability and minimum security required of the owner. And it has no bearing on the
amount of claims that may be proved-until the latter
are determined and a proportion established there is no
need to know, for that purpose, what limit of liability
applies. Indeed, unless it is intended to also change the

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

RUTLEDGE,

403

J., dissenting.

rule where the statutory limitation under R. S. § 4283
is set up as a defense, it may be asserted after trial on
the merits and after judgment. The Benefactor, 103
U. S. 239. And by the terms of Rule 55, the provisions
of Rules 51-54 regulating limitation of liability proceedings are made applicable even to the Courts of Appeals.
Admiralty practice is a unique system of substantive
law and procedure with which members of this Court are
singularly deficient in experience. The court below is
perhaps the most experienced in this country. The issue
on which we reverse it is not one of ultimate rights of
parties but one of practice, the consequences of which
cannot be foreseen. I should leave the problem, at least
at this stage, where the Court of Appeals left it, with
a minor exception.
Of course, it should be noted that the Government is
exempt from giving any security, but that is an oversight
that it hardly needed to come here to correct. It should
have the limitation which Congess has prescribed.
Except for that detail, I would affirm.
It may be that petitioner should now be allowed to
amend and file the required bond equal to the ship's value
and proceed. It has not so far asked to do so, insisting
instead upon what it thought to be its legal right to proceed without compliance. This question, too, may be
left to the courts below.
MR. JUSTICE REED

and MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS

join in

this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, dissenting.

I agree with MR. JUSTICE JACKSON that, when Congress

gave shipowners the privilege of limiting their liability
and conditioned that privilege, in the alternative, upon
turning over the vessel and freight for the benefit of
claimants or depositing with the court cash or approved

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

security of equivalent value, it meant exactly what it
wrote into the statute concerning the amount of the
security to be given.
Nothing in the statute's wording, purpose, or legislative
history is cited or exists to justify rewriting "a sum equal
to the amount or value of the interest of such owner
in the vessel and freight,"' so as to make that wording
read "a sum equal to one-third the value of the interest
of such owner when that amount possibly but by no
means certainly will be the limit of his substantive liability after the claims against him are finally determined."
The most appealing argument put forward to support
this statutory distortion is petitioners' wholly specious
plea of resulting "injustice" if the judicial revision is not
made. The plea is founded altogether upon petitioners'
assumption that their view of the extent of their aggregate possible liability will prevail, when the time comes
for deciding that question.
Petitioners' view is that the lex loci delicti governs
both the existence and the extent of their liability in this
case. That law is the law of Belgium, because the collision here involved took place in Belgian waters. Moreover, since Belgium ratified the Brussels Convention of
August 25, 1924,2 that Convention is claimed to be controlling of the resulting substantive liability. This, because the aggregate limit the Convention prescribes comes
to only some $325,000 in this case and that limit, so it is
argued, attaches to the right of recovery as part of the
right, not merely as a matter of remedy. See Slater v.
Mexican National R. Co., 194 U. S. 120. Cf. Smith v.
1Rev. Stat. § 4285, as amended, 49 Stat. 1480, 46 U. S. C. § 185.
The full text of the section is quoted in note 1 of the majority opinion.
2 International Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules
Relating to the Limitation of the Liability of Owners of Seagoing
Vessels, signed at Brussels on August 25, 1924. See note 3 of the
majority opinion.

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

RUTLEDGE,

405

J., dissenting.

Condry, 1 How. 28, 33; Cuba R. Co. v. Crosby, 222 U. S.
473; American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213 U. S.
347.
Hence, it is urged, petitioner Black Diamond satisfied
the requirements of Rev. Stat. § 4285, as amended, for
limitation of liability, when it deposited an approved
bond for $325,000, rather than one in the amount of
$1,000,000, the value of the owner's interest in the vessel
and freight, as § 4285 in terms requires. The conclusion
is grounded on the "injustice" which petitioners say would
result if one substantively liable for only $325,000 were
required to post bond in three times that amount in order
to have the advantage of limitation. This, it is said,
would mean forcing such an owner to pay bond premiums
three times larger than necessary to discharge all his
liabilities, an "injustice" it is argued Congress cannot
have contemplated notwithstanding its clear and unambiguous language.
Even if petitioners' assumption concerning their ultimate liability should turn out to be true, the statutory
command is clear and unequivocal: Turn over the ship
and the freight or their value as the price of limitation.
In this command Congress was concerned not at all with
the extent of aggregate claims or liabilities. It was concerned only with affording the owner a chance to limit
his liabilities, but at the same time allowing this privilege
only on precise and fixed conditions for giving security
to his creditors in the amount specified. This was unrelated to the amount of the liabilities in the aggregate,
whether above or below the maximum fixed by the
statute.3
That Congress intended the same maximum and the
same security for claimants, regardless of the alternative mode chosen for giving the security, is shown by
3 But cf. the cases cited in the text in ra at note 5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

the very alternatives themselves. They are equivalents.
There was no intent to permit less security to be given
when the owner elects to give the statutory substitutes
than when he turns over the ship. Correlatively there
was no intention to give him the limitation for less cost
or on more advantageous terms in the one case than in
the other. The provision for substituting money or
security for the ship had no purpose or function to correlate the bond required with the amount of the ultimate
aggregate substantive liabilities, which seldom can be
known in advance of their final determination. The
alternative mode's purpose was only to permit the owner
to release the ship and continue it in active business use,
provided he substituted its equivalent in value, not some
lesser sum, for it.
It is quite true that the statute was enacted for shipowners' benefit and for encouragement of the industry,
by enabling owners to limit their liability. But in doing
this and thereby cutting down the rights of claimants
to recovery, Congress was not unmindful of the latter.
For satisfying their unrestricted claims it substituted a
fund instead of the owner's general and unlimited liability. That fund was the vessel's value or its equivalent.
Nor was this a subordinate feature of the scheme of limitation. It was the very heart of that scheme, and, in
my opinion, was intended to create a general and uniform
policy for application in American courts. In cutting
down claimants' rights of recovery to the fund prescribed,
Congress was not giving the owner the additional right
to cut further the security provided for their payment, by
either assuming or pleading that his ultimate aggregate
liabilities would be below that fund.
This brings us to the final consideration, which is that
there is no injustice whatever here, there is only an
imagined one, in requiring Black Diamond to deposit in
court cash or security in the full amount of $1,000,000

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

RUTLEDGE,

407

J., dissenting.

required by the statute's terms. The aggregate of petitioners' liabilities has not been determined, nor can it
be until the further and probably extended proceedings
for that purpose have been concluded. Meanwhile, it
must remain uncertain, as it has during all the litigation
to this date, whether petitioners' or respondent's view on
that matter ultimately will prevail. In other words, it
is now as likely that petitioners' liabilities eventually will
be found to be $1,000,000 as it is that they will be fixed
according to petitioners' view of the Belgian law and ours.
Indeed, the Court's opinion sets forth considerations casting grave doubt on whether petitioners' theory of the
substantive limitation can prevail.
In this state of affairs petitioners actually are asking us
to gamble with them, and against respondent and other
claimants, on the ultimate computation of petitioners'
aggregate liabilities. And in this petitioners are asking
us to put upon the claimants the risk that petitioners
will turn out to be right. That risk, under the statute's
policy, should be the other way. Likewise, under that
policy, the cost of that risk is put upon petitioner Black
Diamond. In reducing claimants' rights of recovery to
the value of the ship or its equivalent, Congress did not
mean that the claimants should take the risk of not having
that value available to satisfy their claims if the aggregate should eventually be held to be the amount of the
specified fund. Nor did it mean that they should have
that value for security if the ship were turned over for
their benefit, but should bear either the loss or the risk
if the shipowner elected to substitute cash or other security, with the court's approval, in a smaller amount in
order to keep his vessel running.
In the event petitioners turn out to be wrong and,
as seems likely in that event, valid claims should amount
to $1,000,000 or more, under the view petitioners would
have us take, the claimants would have certain security

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

336 U. S.

to apply on what is due them for only $325,000. Petitioner Black Diamond then either will have limited its
liability to that amount, to the claimants' loss and contrary to the statute's provision; or, if the District Court
should then see fit to apply the authority given it to
require further security to carry out the purposes of
§ 4283, as amended,4 it will have cast the burden of Black
Diamond's solvency on the claimants for the probably
extended period of litigation necessary to complete the
final determination of petitioners' substantive liabilities.
I do not think the statute meant the claimants to bear
either such a loss or such a risk. Its policy is to exchange
limitation for security. The security specified is not contingent or to be supplied in the future. It is a present
exchange, immediately effective, to give the shipowner
immunity to liability beyond the fund exacted and, at
the same time, to relieve claimants of any risk that the
fund will not be available if their valid claims eventually equal or exceed it. To allow security in less than
the statutory amount to be given, on the chance that
valid claims may turn out to be less than the fund, vitiates that clear statutory object and command. The only
purpose of requiring the approved substituted security
to be deposited in court is to assure that claimants will
not bear the risk of loss of the fund pending the final
determination of their claims.
Petitioners' claim of "injustice" is therefore without
substance. Black Diamond seeks to shift to its creditors
the risk which the language and policy of the statute
place on it. The statute does not permit security contingent upon the outcome of the adjudication of claims
4 Whether the ship is turned over for the creditor's benefit or

other acceptable security is substituted, § 4285, as amended, authorizes the court to require "in addition such sums, or approved security
therefor, as the court may from time to time fix as necessary to
carry out the provisions of" § 4283, as amended. 46 U. S. C. § 185.

BLACK DIAMOND v. STEWART & SONS.
386

RUTLEDGE,

409

J., dissenting.

or to be given in the future. The security is to be given
concurrently with the privilege of limitation and is to
stand in the court's control and at the statutory amount
until the claims are finally adjudicated. Black Diamond
seeks to have the statutory limitation without paying the
statutory price. If that were allowed, the injustice would
fall upon the claimants, not upon Black Diamond.
No case has been cited which holds that the statutory
limitation can be obtained by giving security in less than
the statutory amount. Nor need we now express opinion
upon the problem considered in cases like The Aquitania,
20 F. 2d 457, and Curtis Bay Towing Co. v. Tug Kevin
Moran, 159 F. 2d 273V
In my view petitioner Black Diamond has not complied
with the statute. Strictly therefore it is not entitled to
the statutory limitation. But because the question is
novel, the time for instituting another limitation proceeding has passed, and filing of security now in accordance
with the statute's command would better serve its objects
than dismissing the cause, I would reverse the judgment
and remand the cause to the District Court to permit
the filing of the statutory security, if Black Diamond
can and promptly will comply with that requirement.
This is for the reason that the statute, § 4285, requires
security to be given by turning over the ship or its value
in order to secure the limitation of liability, not merely
as a matter of judicial discretion to preserve the status
quo pending appeal from determination of the issues
concerning whether the Belgian substantive limitation
applies. The statutory security, if given, should remain
in force until all claims have been filed and finally
adjudicated.
5 Holding, as the Court of Appeals said in this case, that the
limitation proceeding is not available where the aggregate of known
and probable claims is less than the value of the ship.

