210

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

336 U. S.

UNITED STATES EX REL. HIRSHBERG v. COOKE,
COMMANDING OFFICER.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 231.

Argued January 13, 1949.-Decided February 28, 1949.

1. A Navy court-martial has no jurisdiction to try an enlisted man
for a violation of Art. 8 of the Articles for the Government of
the Navy, 34 U. S. C. § 1200, Art. 8, committed during a prior
enlistment terminated by an honorable discharge, even though
he reenlisted on the day following his discharge. Pp. 211-219.
2. This conclusion is supported by the language and legislative history
of 34 U. S. C. § 1200, Art. 14 (Eleventh), specifically authorizing
trial after discharge of offenders against Art. 14. Pp. 214-216.
3. It is also supported by long-standing administrative interpretation, including 31 Op. Atty. Gen. 521. Pp. 216-217.
4. 34 U. S. C. § 591, authorizing the Secretary of the Navy, with
the approval of the President, to adopt and alter regulations and
orders for the control of the Navy, does not authorize the Navy
to extend its court-martial jurisdiction beyond the limits Congress
had fixed. Pp. 217-218.
5. Nor can a Navy regulation claimed to grant jurisdiction in cases
such as this be sustained as a revision of the long-standing administrative interpretation of Art. 8. Pp. 218-219.
168 F. 2d 503, reversed.

Petitioner was convicted by a Naval court-martial for
an offense committed during a prior enlistment. In a
habeas corpus proceeding, a federal district court held
the judgment void and ordered his release from custody.
73 F. Supp. 990.

The Court of Appeals reversed.

168

F. 2d 503. This Court granted certiorari. 335 U. S. 842.
Cooke was substituted as the party respondent. 335 U. S.
882. Reversed, p. 219.
John J. O'Neil argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was HaroldRosenwald.

With

HIRSHBERG v. COOKE.
210

Opinion of the Court.

Peyton Ford, The Assistant to the Attorney General,
argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief
were Solicitor General Perlman, Robert W. Ginnane,
Robert S. Erdahl and Philip R. Monahan.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the*Court.

This case raises important questions concerning the
statutory jurisdiction of general courts-martial of the
Navy.
In 1942 the petitioner was serving a second enlistment
in the Navy. Upon the surrender of the United States
forces on Corregidor petitioner became a war prisoner
of Japan. After liberation in September, 1945, petitioner
was brought back to the United States and hospitalized.
He was restored to duty in January, 1946. March 26,
1946, he was granted an honorable discharge because of
expiration of his prior enlistment. The next day he
re-enlisted, obligating himself to serve four years "subject
to such laws, regulations, and articles for the government
of the Navy as are or shall be established by the Congress . . . or other competent authority . .. .
About a year later, petitioner was served with charges
directing his trial by a general court-martial of the Navy.
The specifications included charges that during his prior
enlistment the petitioner had maltreated two other naval
enlisted men who were also Japanese prisoners of war and
who were members of groups of prisoners working under
petitioner's charge. Petitioner filed a plea in bar of
the trial, one ground being that the court-martial
was without jurisdiction to try him for alleged offenses
committed during a prior enlistment at the end of which
he had received an honorable discharge. His plea was
overruled. He was acquitted on some specifications but
was convicted on others that charged maltreatment. His
sentence was ten months confinement, reduction from

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

chief signalman to apprentice seaman, and dishonorable
discharge from the Navy.
Petitioner then brought this habeas corpus proceeding
in a federal district court charging that the court-martial
judgment was void because of want of statutory power to
convict him for an offense committed if at all during
his prior enlistment.1 That court sustained petitioner's
contention and ordered his release from custody. 73 F.
Supp. 990. The Court of Appeals reversed, one judge
dissenting. 168 F. 2d 503. The importance of the statutory construction, which appeared to affect the courtmartial powers of the Army as well as the Navy, caused
us to grant certiorari. 335 U. S. 842.
Aside from naval regulations to which reference will
later be made, court-martial authority to try and to
punish petitioner for his prior enlistment conduct primarily depends on the language in Article 8 (Second) of
the Articles for the Government of the Navy (34 U. S. C.
§ 1200, Art. 8), which particularly provides that "such
punishment as a court-martial may adjudge may be inflicted on any person in the Navy . . . guilty of . . .
maltreatment of, any person subject to his orders .... .
The Government contends that this language given its
literal meaning authorized the court-martial to try and
I Court-martial jurisdiction to try petitioner depends on a part of
Article 8 (Second), which reaches only conduct of an offender charged
with "maltreatment of, any person subject to his orders." Before

the court-martial and in the District Court petitioner contended that
the court-martial was without jurisdiction in his case because the
alleged maltreatment was of naval enlisted men who were not "subject
to his orders" by virtue of his United States Navy obligations, but
that whatever authority he then had over the other Navy men came
from duties assigned him by the Japanese as a prisoner of war.
Both the District Court and the Court of Appeals rejected this
suggested interpretation of the Article, and the contention is not
urged here.

HIRSHBERG v. COOKE.
210

Opinion of the Court.

to punish petitioner for conduct during a prior enlistment. It is pointed out that petitioner was "in the
Navy" when the offense was committed and when he
was tried; this language it is argued brings his case under the Article. In aid of this interpretation the Government emphasizes that during the whole period of time
involved, petitioner was continuously "in the Navy"
except for an interval of a few hours between his honorable discharge and his re-enlistment. This latter circumstance we think cannot justify the statutory interpretation urged. For if that interpretation is correct,
court-martial jurisdiction would be satisfied,if a sailor was
merely "in the Navy" when the offense was committed
and when brought before the court-martial, regardless of
the duration of any interim period out of the naval service,
provided the prosecution was not barred by the two-year
limitation period provided by 34 U. S. C. § 1200, Art. 61.
The concessions made by the Government in urging
such a literal construction of this Article expose the whimsical and uncertain nature of the distinctions that would
mark the bbundaries of court-martial powers. It is
conceded that had petitioner not re-enlisted in the Navy
after his 1946 discharge, no Navy court-martial could
have tried him for offenses committed during his prior
naval service. Thus, under the construction here urged,
naval court-martial jurisdiction for a prior enlistment
offense is made wholly to depend on whether the naval
offender either voluntarily re-enters the Navy or is
drafted into its service. And punishment of the gravest nature might be imposed on a naval volunteer or
draftee which no court-martial could have imposed but
for such a voluntary or forced entry into the Navy.
For under this interpretation had the same naval offender
re-entered his country's service by way of the Army rather
than the Navy, either by choice or by accident of draft

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

assignment, no court-martial, either Navy or Army, could
have punished him. Jurisdiction to punish rarely, if ever,
rests upon such illogical and fortuitous contingencies.
We therefore must look beyond the literal language of the
Article, ambiguous at best, in order to determine whether
this court-martial acted within its power. See Runkle
v. United States, 122 U. S. 543, 555, 556; Ex parte Reed,
100 U. S. 13, 23.
While not itself determinative of the question here, 34
U. S. C. § 1200, Art. 14 (Eleventh), has greatly influenced
the Army and Navy in determining their court-martial
jurisdiction to~try service personnel for offenses committed
in prior enlistments. That Article provides that where
any person previously discharged or dismissed from the
Navy has "while in the naval service" been guilty of certain types of fraud against the Government, such person
"shall continue to be liable to be arrested and held for
trial and sentence by a court martial, in the same manner
and to the same extent as if he had not received such
discharge nor been dismissed."
Article 14 (Eleventh) stems from an Act of Congress
passed in 1863, particularly designed to punish frauds
against the military branches of the Government in connection with the procurement of supplies for war activities. 12 Stat. 696. That the attention of the 1863
Congress was directly focused upon the powers that could
and should be vested in courts-martial is made clear
by the debates and by the fact that Congress deleted from
the bill as proposed specific provisions which would have
made civilian government contractors subject to trial
before military and naval courts-martial. Cong. Globe,
37th Cong., 3d Sess. 952-958 (1863), and Appendix to
Cong. Globe, 37th Cong., 3d Sess. 199 (1863). See Ex
parte Henderson, 11 Fed. Cas. 1067, No. 6,349 (C. C. D.
Ky. 1878). And see United States ex rel. Marcus v. Hess,

HIRSHBERG v. COOKE.
210

Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S. 537, 539-545. But after elimination of certain
provisions which would further have expanded courtmartial jurisdiction, Congress left in the bill § 3, now
Naval Article 14 (Eleventh), which makes naval personnel guilty of service frauds subject to court-martial after
discharge or dismissal. The same 1863 provision has also
been made applicable to Army personnel by Article of
War 94, 10 U. S. C. § 1566.
Congress in this 1863 Act plainly recognized that there
was a significant difference between court-martial power
to try men in the service and to try former servicemen
after their discharge. The Government correctly argues
that the attention of the 1863 Congress was not focused
on the precise question here, namely, the extent of a
military court's statutory power to punish a man presently "in the service" for an offense committed in a prior
enlistment period from which he has been discharged.
But the fact remains that the 1863 Congress did act
on the implicit assumption that without a grant of congressional authority military courts were without power
to try discharged or dismissed soldiers for any offenses
committed while in the service. Acting on this assumption, Congress granted such a power to courts-martial
but only in the very limited category of offenses there
defined-frauds against the Government.2 Since the
1863 Act, Congress has not passed any measure that
2 The discussion of the 1863 Act showed that Congress rather
grudgingly conceded this comparatively slight expansion of the
court-martial power apparently prompted by reports of particularly
abhorrent recent frauds by war contractors, such as the supply of
shells to the Army "filled not with the proper explosive materials for
use, but with saw-dust." Cong. Globe, 37th Cong., 3d Sess. 955
(1863). This action of the 1863 Congress does not support an
argument that Congress has been quick in response to appeals for
expansion of court-martial jurisdiction. See Duncan v. Kahanamoku,
327 U. S. 304; Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

directly expanded court-martial powers over discharged
servicemen, whether they re-enlisted or not.
Obviously Article 8 (Second), which subjects to courtmartial jurisdiction persons "in the Navy," supports an
argument that petitioner was subject to trial by this
court-martial. It is equally obvious that the language
of Article 8 (Second) particularly in view of Article 14
(Eleventh) supports an argument that this court-martial
could not try petitioner for an offense committed prior
to his honorable discharge. Under these circumstances
the manner in which court-martial jurisdiction has long
been exercised by the Army and Navy is entitled to
great weight in interpreting the Articles.
The question of the jurisdiction of a naval courtmartial over discharged personnel was submitted by the
Secretary of the Navy to the Attorney General in 1919.
The precise question of whether re-enlistment could revive
jurisdiction of a military court was not considered, but
as to the power of military courts over discharged personnel in general the Attorney General reached the conclusion that a person discharged from the Navy before
proceedings were instituted against him "for violations of
the Articles Governing the Navy, excepting article 14"
could not "thereafter be brought to trial . . . for such
violations, though committed while he was in the service."
31 Op. Atty. Gen. 521, 529. This conclusion of the Attorney General relied on statements of the Judge Advocate
Generals of the Army and Navy that their offices had
"from the beginning and uniformly held that a person
separated from the service ceases to be amenable" to military and naval jurisdiction. Previous to the Attorney
General's 1919 opinion neither the Navy nor Army had
ever claimed court-martial power to try their personnel
for offenses committed prior to an honorable discharge
where proceedings had not been instituted before dis-

HIRSHBERG v. COOKE.
210

Opinion of the Court.

charge. See Winthrop, Military Law and Precedents 93
(2d ed. 1920). The Government concedes that the Army
has always so construed its court-martial jurisdiction
whenever the question arose. And the Government concedes that the Navy also followed this view of its jurisdiction until 1932. 3 Many holdings and opinions of Army
and Navy authorities are cited to support these concessions. The Government's brief quotes the following
language by the Navy Department in one of the cases
which considered the precise issue raised here. The case
appears in CMO 12-1921, p. 11.
"Except in cases of offenses in violation of Article
14 of the Articles for the Government of the Navy,
there is no authority of law giving jurisdiction to a
court-martial to try an enlisted man for an offense
committed in a prior enlistment from which he has
an honorable discharge, regardless of the fact that
he has subsequently reenlisted in the naval service
and was serving under such reenlistment at the time
the jurisdiction of the court was asserted."
Accepting as we do the long-standing Army and Navy
interpretation of the Articles previously referred to, an
interpretation which necessarily would deny jurisdiction
to the court-martial here, there remains the contention
that the Navy has by a recent congressionally authorized
regulation acquired such jurisdiction for its courts-martial. 34 U. S. C. § 591 authorizes the Secretary of the
Navy, with the approval of the President, to adopt and
alter regulations and orders for control of the Navy.
3 Since 1932 the Navy has consistently adhered to its revised interpretation of Art. 8 (Second). In 1934 the Navy Department
incorporated this revised interpretation in an official Navy publication, Naval Courts and Boards, and this interpretation became
§ 334 (a) of Naval Courts and Boards (1937 ed.).

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

336 U. S.

The Government claims that a regulation adopted pursuant to this authority has been promulgated,4 and that
it vested the necessary power in this court-martial to
try petitioner. This authorized regulation, it is contended, had the force of law, Ex parte Reed, 100 U. S.
13, 22, and consequently supplants the prior statutes
which, as interpreted, had denied the jurisdiction here
asserted. There has been considerable argument as to
whether the language of the Navy regulation was sufficiently precise to endow it with the force of law. Passing
over this argument, however, we are not able to agree
that the Navy could in this manner acquire the expanded
court-martial jurisdiction it claimed. For we cannot construe 34 U. S. C. § 591 as permitting the Navy to extend
its court-martial jurisdiction beyond the limits Congress
had fixed. United States v. Symonds, 120 U. S. 46, 49-50.
The regulation stands no better if it be considered
merely as an evidence of a revised naval interpretation
of the Article. This revised naval interpretation was
given in 1932. Before that time, both Army and Navy
had for more than half a century acted on the implicit
assumption that discharged servicemen, whether reenlisted or not, were no longer subject to court-martial
power. The Attorney General of the United States had
proceeded on the same assumption. And see United
4 The regulation appearing in the 1937 Naval Courts and Boards
§ 334 contained the following language:
". .. Except for offenses provided for in article 14, A. G. N., a
court martial may not try an individual who has been formally
separated from the Navy and is no longer in the service unless pro-

ceedings were instituted against him while he was in the service ....

Similarly, the Navy Department has passed cases as legal

in which enlisted men have been convicted by court martial of offenses committed in a previous enlistment, although such offenses
were not provided for in article 14, A. G. N."

HIRSHBERG v. COOKE.
210

Opinion of the Court.

States v. Kelly, 15 Wall. 34, 36. Under these circumstances, little weight can be given to the 1932 separate
effort of the Navy to change the long-accepted understanding of its statutory court-martial power. For should
this belated naval interpretation be accepted as correct,
there would be left outstanding an Army interpretation
of its statutory court-martial powers directly opposed to
that of the Navy. Since the Army and Navy courtmartial powers depend on substantially the same statutory foundations, the opposing interpretations cannot
both be right, unless it be assumed that Congress has left
each free to determine its own court-martial boundaries.
We cannot assume that Congress intended a delegation
of such broad power in an area which so vitally affects
the rights and liberties of those who are now, have been,
or may be associated with the Nation's armed forces.
Reversed.

