DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

525

The United States v. Ritchie...

And also, that any exceptions to testimony may be taken at
the final hearing; and, if exceptions be then taken to the competency of testimony, -which the opposite party can remove by
further proof, the court will reserve the decision, and give time
to the party to produce it.
And also, that said cause be set for final heaing on the bill,
answer, replication, exhibits, testimony, and proofs, so adduced,
filed, and admitted, on the second Monday of January, 1856,
unless cause be then shown to the court for the continuance
thereof.

THE UNITED

STATES, APPELLANTS, V. ARCHIBALD

A.

RITCHIE.

By an act of congress passed on the 31 of March, 1851, (9 Stats. at Large, 631,)
provision was made for the appointment of a board of commissioners to settle pri'
vate land claims in California, and for the transfer of a case decided by them to the
district court of the United States for California, by way of appeal.
This law *as constitutional. The board of commissioners was not a court, under
the constitution, invested with judicial powers; but the commencement of the suit
in the district court, when transferred there, must be regarded as an original prSceeding. The district court could hear additional evidence to that which was before
the board of commissioners,
The 9th section of the act directed that the United States or the claimant might file
a petition, praying an appeal to the district court, and other sections pointed out
the mode of proceeding. But this was all changed by an act passed on the 31st of
August, 1852, (10 Stats. at Large, 99,) which directed that the filing of a transcript
with the clerk of the district court should, ipso facto, operate as an appeal.
This amounts, also, to a notice to the opposite party.
The title of Francisco SoLno, an Indian, to a tract of land in California, particularly
set forth.
Although Solano was an Indian, yet he was competent, according to the laws of Mexico at the time of the grant, to take and hold real property.
The plan of Iguala, adopted by the revolutionary government of Mexico, in 1821,
and all the successive public documents and decrees of that country, recognized an
equality amongst all the inhabitants, whether Europeans, Africans, or Indians; and
the decree of 1824, providing for colonization, recognized the citizenship of the
Indians, and their right to hold land.
In 1833 and 1834, the government of Mexico passed laws for secularizing the missions, under which the public authorities granted the lands belonging to them in the
same manner as other public lands.
In respect to those lands called Pueblo lands, no opinion is expressed.

Tars was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The act of congress respecting the claimants to land in California, and the title of Solano, under whom Ritehie claimed,
are so particularly set forth in the opinion of the court, that the
reporter has nothing to add upon those topics.
*

Mr. Justice DA.zIEL

did not sit in this cause.

526

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Ritchie.

It was argued in this court by Mr.Cushing, (attorney-general,)
for the United States, and by .Mr. Bibb, for the appellee.
The brief of Mr. Cushing became expanded into a printed
argument of eighty-eight pages, of which the following is a
mere outline The act of congress passed on the 3d of March, 1851, (9
Stats. at Large, 631,) contains a clause which is declaiatory of
the general principles of law, by which the decisions of land
claims in California are to be governed. It is in these words:" The commissioners herein provided for, and the district and
supreme courts, in deciding on the validity of any claim brought
before them under the provisions of this act, shall be governed
by the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo, the law of nations, the
laws, usages, and customs of the government from which the
claim is derived, the principles of equity, and the decisions of
the supreme court of the United States, so far as t.hey are applicable."
Mr. Cushing analyzed these five sources of authority separately, with a view to settle and ascertain the principles of law
which bore upon the case; and, in the course of his argument,
discussed, at great length, the question how the laws, usages,
and customs of a foreign government were to be proved. Proceeding to this particular case, he contended that Mariano
Guadaloupe Vallejo, under whom Ritchie claims, had no title to
convey, the pretended title in him being, for various reasons,
null and void in law and equity.
I. Of the conveyance from Solano to Guadaloupe Vallejo.
§ 1. The claimant assumes that, by reason of the 12th and
13th articles of the plan of Iguala, Indians in Mexico may take,
hold, and sell lands.
To which the reply is :
1. They might do'this, not only since, but before the plan of
Iguala, beyond all doubt, as will be shown hereafter.
2. The plan of Iguala neither increased nor diminished the
power of Indians, in this respect.
3. The true question is not, whether an Indiai could, in California, hold and sell land, but under what circumstances and
ecnditions.
4. Thus, any free citizen of the United States can take, hold,
and sell lands; but the law imposes forms of conveyance, without which there can be no valid sale; and it also prescribes certain safeguards of conveyances by whole classes of citizens, such
as married women, minors, and others, to prevent their being
defrauded.
In the discussion of these points, he discarded entirelv the

DEOEMBER TERM:, 1854.

527

The United States ti. Ritchie.

testimonv of the witnesses in 'California, and contended that
they must be decided by the Recopilacion de'Indias, which' was
the law of the Mexican Republic, except where any of its provisions may have been repealed, either expressly, or by necessary
implication, since the separation from Spain. This code, Lib.
6, Tit. 1, L 37, Law !7, 1672, forbade Indians -from selling-their
land, unless with permission of -the court, and in pursuance of a
prescribed form.
The provisions of this law, he'contended, had never'been repealed. The plan of Tgiala and The treaties of Cordova did-not
repeal them. This plan and these' treaties, together with 4he
other Mexican authorities, were then particularly examined.
The special legislation of the several Mexican States, on the
subject of Indians, afforded conclusive evidence that the plan
of Iguala did not repeal this law, (27,) or any other law of the
Becopilacion de Indias, for the protection of the Indians. Our
own laws for their protection , by forbidding conveyances, are
analogous to this Spanish law.
As to the confirmation.of Solancs title by the departmental
assembly in 1845, ir. Cushing contended that such confirmation did not entire to the benefit of Vallejo, the grantee, forthese
reasons: 1. The purchase of Solano was not authorized by law.
2. Solan6 had no authority to make a valid covenant in relation to the land, or title thereto.
3. There was not, in fact, any covenant for further assurance
in
this instrument which could enuro to the benefit'of Va~lejo.
I Passing
to u.other branch of this case, Mr. Gushing contended that the alleged grant to Solano, and conveyance by him to
Vallejo, were fraudulent and void as against the Mexican government; that Vallejo was commandant of Sorloma, andSolano
was his bailiff or overseer, and that Solano's name was used
merely to cover the fraud. He further eontended, that the missions were not the subject of the colonization law. The following is a summary of his points:- '
1. The alleged sale, from the Indian, Solano, was not made in
the presence of a justice, and by public vendue; and was, therefgre, null and void, even supposing Solano to have had a good
title from the Mexican government.
2. This defect is not cured by the action of the departmental
assembly, which does not relate back, nor enure for the benefit
of Vallejo.
3. The case rests mainly on the testimony of Vallejo, who,
having conveyed to Ritchie, with covenant of seisin and warranty, was incompetent, as a witness, to prove the title.
4. No title passed from the government to Solano, the whole

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Ritchie.

transaction being a fraud, of which Solano was the instrument,
for the benefit of Vallejo.
5. The land, being mission land, was not colonizable; and,
therefore, the pretended grant to Solano was null and void.
6. Being mission land, if (which is denied) Solano acquired
any interest therein, he could not lawfully convey it to Vallejo
by any form of conveyance whatever; and on his possession
ceasing, the land reverted to the public domain.
7. The pretended title of Vallejo, through Solano, was only a
fraudulent device to cover the plunder, by him, of a part of the
mission lands of San Francisco Solano.
8. The land is not shown to be at the necessary distance from
the frontier to niake it subject to colonization.
9. Of course, Vallejo, having no title, could convey none to
Ritchie, and the land appertains to the public domain of the
United States.
1J!r. Bibb's first two points related to the nature of the conditions upon which the estate was granted- a matter that.will be
more especially noticed in the next case, of the United States v.
Fremont. His third point was: The United States have-not
prosecuted a review of the decision of the commissioners in the
manner and form required by the 9th section of the act of March
3, 1851, to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the
State of California, (9 Stats. at Large, 632, ch. 41,) and therefore have no grounds, no standing, no foundation whereon to
pray this court to review and reverse the decision of the commissioners.
The 9th and 10th sections of this act, he contended, were
not repealed by the 12th sect. of the act of 1852, (Stats. at
Large, 99, ch. 108.)
IV. The time when the attorney-general received a transcript
of the proceedings and decision of the commissioners does not
appear in the record, and it does not appear to the court that the
notice was filed with the clerk of the district court within the
period of time prescribed by the 12th section of saidact of 1852,
that the appeal would be prosecuted by the United States;
therefore, the appeal ought to be regarded a.; dismissed.
The final decree of the board of commissioners was pronounced
and recorded January 3, 1853; the notice by the attorneygeneral, that appeal would be prosecuted, was filed with the
clerk September 20, 1853; seven months and sixteen days had
intervened; so the filing of the notice with the clerk might have
beet after the lapse of six months from the time the attorneygeneral had received a transcript of the proceedings and decision
of the commissioners.
As the -period of limitation began to run and to be accounted

DECEMBER TERM. 1854.

529

The United States v. Ritchie.

from the time of a fact known only to the attorney-general, who
.gave the notice, the time that he received the transcript ought to
have been made to appear on the record of the district court;
which fact, if it had been alleged by the plaintiff, would have
been traversable by the respondent. But the total disregard
by the plaintiff of the provisions of tfie 9th section of the act of
1851, deprived the defendant, Ritchie, of the opportunity to rely
upon the statute of limitations in the district court.
V. The title under which the appellee holds, was complete
and perfect- a legal title, under a grant' by the executive branch
of the Mexican government, approved by the legislative branch,
and consummated by the judicialbranch, by juridical possession
delivered to the grantee, under which the land was inhabited,
improved, cultivated, and enjoyed by the owner in fee, long
before and at the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo.
By that treaty, the United States acquired no right of the soil
included in this grant; nothing but the political powers, juris.
diction, and sovereignty, under a special stipulation that the
owners of property should be protected in the enjoyment
thereof.
Before that treaty, this land had been so completely severed
from the public domain of Mexico, so perfectly vested in. the
grantee by a legal title in fee, that no right of property in the
land passed to-the United States.
V I By the laws, usages, and customs in California, all persons, without any distinction between races, had capacity to
take and alienate lands. Upon this point of the.case, Mr. Bibb's
citations were very numerous.
1. The governor and departmental assembly considered that
Solano's being an Indian did not prevent him from holding
land.
2. The laws, customs, and usages of, the Mexican government permitted it. Proof of this was in the record by witnesses.
3. These laws, usages, and customs are to be proved as facts.
4. No Christian nation, who planted colonies in North or
South America, ever denied to the aborigines the capacity of
holding lands as tribes, and of selling them in subordination to
the governing nation.
5. But Spain did not coisider the Indian right to be that
of mere occupancy and perpetual possession; but a right of
property in the lands they held under the guaranty of treaties,
and so highly respected that, in the establishment of a military
post by royal order, the site thereof was either purchased from
the Indiaas or occupied with. their permission, as that of St.
Mark's. 9 Pet. 752.
VOL. XVII.

45

530

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States u. Ritchie.

6. The capacity of native Indians and their descendants to
take individually, by grant in fee-simple, is acknowledged in
various treaties between the United States and different tribes
of Indians.
7. No nation of white people, who have ever established
themselves and their government in America, (however proud
and confident in their superiority over the red men who were
found in the occupancy of the lands,) have ever denied that the
Intlians were human beings entitled to the rights of humanity,
to the natural rights of holding, and acquiring, and alienating
property, real and personal, including the rights of marriage
and descent. Here, let us cdll to mind the marriage of Mr.
Rolfe, the white man, with Pocahontas, the Indian princess,
whose descendants have held and now hold places of honor
and profit, and large estates, real and personal; and let us not
forget the virtues of Pocahontas, her courageous acts and noble
darings in the cause of humanity, which have made her character illustrious, and her portrait worthy of a niche in the capitol
of the United States of America.
8. By the decree of the supreme government of the United
Mexican States of 1824, (before quoted,) foreigners, as well as
Mexicans were endowed with the capacity to receive grants of
land, and to establish themselves thereon.
Was Francisco
Sblano neither a foreigner nor a Mexican? Were native
civilized Indians, converted to the Christian faith, in full communion with the established Catholic church, excluded from
the privilege of acquiring lands by grants directly from the
government ?
9. The historical evidence of the revolutions in Mexico,
confirms the position that the Indians were capable of buying
and selling lands. The plan of Iguala, -and treaties of Cordova, and other public documents, all recognize the right.
VIL Although the grant has been so made to Solano in fee,
yet it is said-that Solano was not authorized, and had not
capacity, to sell.
Suppose, for the sake of argument, it were so. Would the
act of Solano, in making the deed of bargain and sale, make
the grant to him void ab intio ; annul his capacity to have and
to hold, and convey the land to the United States?
The conveyance by Solano to Vallejo was of 10th- June,
1842; the treaty of Guadaloupc Hidalgo was signed 2d February, 1848; the ratifications were exchanged 30th May, 1848.
During this interval, between the sale and conveyance by
Solano and the treaty of Gaudaloupe H~idalgo, the Mexican
government never complained of any breach of any condition
in this grant to Solano; never instituted any proceeding to

DECE

B

R TERM , 1854.

531

The United States v. Ritchie.

divest Silano or his heirs, or the alienee, Yallejo, of the title,
and reunite it to the public domain.
At the date of the treaty, Solano was living on the land, and
died there, in or about the year 1851; and his alienee, Vallejo,
was. also in possession and cultivating the land from 1842, until
his sale and conveyance to Ritchie, in August, 1860.
VIII. The attorney-general alleges the grant to Solano to
have been collusive and fraudulent.
.Xr. Bibb examined the facts in the case.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of. the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the district court for the
northern district of California.
The proceedings were originally commenced before the board
of commissioners to settle private land claims in California,
under the act of congress of March 3, 1851. (9 Stats. at Large,

631.)
A petition was filed before that board by Ritchie againbt the
United States, setting forth a, claim to a tract of land known by
the name of "Suisun," situate in the jurisdiction of Sonoma,
county of Solano, comprising four square Mexican leagues,
(nearly 18,000 acres,) praying that the title might be confirmed.
The title claimed is derived from a grant by Juan"B. Alvarado,
governor of California, to Francisco Solano, dated January 28,
1842.
The commissioners, after hearing the proofs in the case, on
the 3d of January, 1853, ordered that the title be confirmed to
the claimant.
On the 19th of May, 1853, a transcript of the proceedings before the board, with their decision, was filed with the clerk of
the Uiited States district court for the northern district of California ; and on the 20th of September, 1853, notice'of an appeal
from the decision to thg district court was filed with the clerk by
the attorney-general of the United States.
Further testimony was taken in the case, and heard before the
court; and at a special term, held at the city of San Francisco
on the 8th of November, 1853, thk. .decision of the board of
commissioners was confirmed.
The case is now before us .on an appeal from the decree of
the district courL
Objections have been taken on the part of the appellee to the
jurisdiction of the district court, to hear and determine the case;
and, also, 1o the regularity of the appeal from the board of commissioners-assuming the court had jurisdiction-which it will
be necessary first to notice.
• By the 8th section of the act already referred to, it was made

532

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Ritchie.
the duty of the commissioners, within thirty days after their decision, to certify the same, with the reasons on which it was
founded, to the district attorney of the United States of the district in which the decision was rendered. And by the 9th section, it is provided that in all cases of rejection or confirmation
of any claim by the board, it should be lawful for the claimant
or district attorney, on behalf of the United States, to present a
petition to the district court praying for a review of the decision;
and that the petition, if presented by the claimant, should set
forth the nature of the claim, &c., together with a transcript of
the report of the board, and of the documentary and other evidence on which it was founded. And the petition, if presented
by the district attorney, shall be accompanied by a transcript of
the board, &c., and shall set forth the groui ds upon which the
claim is alleged to be invalid; and a copy of the petition shall
be served upon the opposite party; and the party upon whom
the service shall be made shall be bound to answer the same
within the time prescribed by the judge of the district court, &c.
And by the 10th section, it is made the duty of the district court
to proceed and render judgment upon the pleadings and evidence
in the cause, and upon such further-evidence as may be taken
by order of the said court; and, on the application of the
party against whom the judgment is rendered, to grant an appeal
to the supreme court of the United States. And by the 12th
section, to entitle either party to a review of the board of commissioners, notice of the intention to file a petition in the district
court shall be entered on the journal of the board within sixty
days after the decision of the claim has been notified to the parties; and the petition shall be filed in the district court within
six months after the decision has been rendered.
The mode above prescribed for removing the case from the
board of commissioners to the district court was subsequently
changed by the 12th sect. of the act of congress passed 31st
August, 1852, (10 Stats. at Large, 99.)
This section provides that, in every case in which the board
of commissioners shall render a final decision, it shall be their
duty to have two certified transcripts of their proceedings and
decision, and of the papers and evidence on which the same
were founded, made out, one of which transcripts shall be filed
with the clerk of the proper district court, and the other transmitted to the attorney-general of the United States; and the
filing of such transcript with the clerk shall, ipso facto, operate as
an appeal for the party against whom the decision shall be rendered ; and if such decision shall be against the private claimant,
it shall be his duty to file a notice with the clerk of the court
within six months thereaftei, of his intention to prosecute the

DECEM1BER

TERM, 1854.

The Utiited States v. Ritchie.

appeal, and if the decision shall be against the United States, it
shall be the duty of the attorney-general, within six monlths after
receiving tle said transcript, to cause notice to be filed with the
clerk aforesaid, that the appeal will be prosecuted by the United
States. And on the failure of either party to file such -notice
with the clerk, tie appeal shall be regarded as dismissed.
The removal of the proceedings before tke board of comrinssioners, in this case, to the district court, took place in confbrmitv
,with the provisions of the act of 1852, and, it is urged by The
counsel for the appellee, that it is defective for not complying
with the requirement of the 9th section of the act of 1551. in
respect to the petition to the district court therein provided for.
But we are of opinion that th 12th section of the act if 1852 virtually repeals this section, and thereby dispenses with ti. petition
and answer, as preliminary steps to the hearing in the district
court. They clearly are not essential to the removal of the
cause, or perfecting of what is called the appeal. as the 12th
section of the act of 1852 makes the filing of the transcript returned by the commissioners operati, ipsof'iaeo. as an appeal in
favor 6f the party against whom the decision had been rendered.
The filing of the petition and answer in the distrier court,
prescribed by the 9th section, presenting, in the form of pleadings, the issue to be tried, would have been more in conflrtnitv
with the pyactice of courts; but, looking to -the nanre antd
character of the questions to be heard and determined in these
proceedings before the court, the pleading.s cainet be of any
very great importance, especially as these questions have already
been the subject of examination by both parties before the board
of commissioners. The question of practice'in the partictlar
case is rather a matter of form than of substance.
It is objected, further, that the 12th section of tih.'
act of 1S52
makes no provision for iiotice to the party iii whose favor fle
decision has been rendered by tle commiasioner.. of thc'appeal
to the district court, and that a hearing mua'- be had ilere, "and
the decision reversed in his absefnce.
h
has
I notice
1
the
appeal, as the filing of the traxiscrilit by the board. aet;.r.dixlg k,
the act, has that elteet ; and theln'ordinarv dili'zcnc" Vill
enable the party to 'be heard on- the approil. Besites !he
court has the power, doubtless, to regulaie th titne of .1i'&he;t'
r-,
ing, and provide for reasonable iiotice by its rules, so as-tt. pret
I.
vent surprise.
It is also objected, that ihe law prdscribiitg ai'ap'pealfrothe
district coitrt from the decision titthe board of coiniissioners
is unconstitutional; as this board, as 9rganized. is, ior a court
under the constitution, and cannot, therefore, be invested with'
any of the judicial powers conferred'upon the gerneral goverw
45*

534

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Ritchie.

ment. American Ins. Co. v. Canter, I Pet. 511; Benner v. Porter, 9 How. 235; United States v. Ferreira, 13 Ib. 40.
But the answer to the objection is, that the suit in the district
court is to be regarded as an original proceedingi the removal
of the transcript, papers, and evidence into it from the board of
commissioners being buf a mode of providing for the institution
of the suit in that court. The transfer, it is true, is called an
appeal; we must not, however, be misled by a name, but look
to the substance and intent of the proceeding. The district
court is not confined to a mere re~xamination of the case as
heard and decided by the board of commissioners, but hears the
cast, de novo, upon the papers and testimony which had been used
before the board, they being made evidence in the district court;
and also upon such further evidence as either party may see fit
to produce.
In this respect, the proceeding is somewhat analogous to that
before the district court, under the act of congress, 26th May,
1824, §§ 1, 3, (4 Stats. at Large, 52, 53,) concerning French and
Spanish grants in the State of Missouri, which had been previously heard before a board of commissioners for confirmation.
In these cases, the evidence before the board was received on
the hearing in the district court.
This brings us to the merits of the case.
It appears, from the evidence in the case, that Francisco Solano, from whom the appellee derives title, was in the possession
and cultivation of the land in question as early as 1832 or 1833;
and that, on the 16th January, 1837, he applied for a provisional
grant of the same, from M. G. Vallejo, the military commander
of the northern frontier of Upper California, and director of colonization. The proceedings are as follows "To the Commandant-General : "Francisco Solano, principal chief of the unconverted Indians,
and born captain of the ' Suisun,' in due form, before your honor,
represents: That, being a free man, and owning a sufficient number of cattle and horses to establish a rancho, he solicits from
the strict justice and goodness of your honor that you be pleased
to grant him the land of the ' Suisun,' together with its known
appurtenances, which are a little more or less than four square
leagues, from the 'Portzuela to the Salina de Sucha.' Said
land belongs to him, by hereditary right from his ancestors,
and he is actually in possession of it; but he wishes to revalidate his rights in accordance with the existing laws of our
republic, and of thQ colonization recently decreed by the supreme government.
" He therefore prays that your honor be pleased to grant him

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

535

The United States v. Ritchie.

the land which he asks for, and to procure for him, from the
proper sources, the titles which may be necessary for his security, and that you will also admit this on common paper, there
being none of the corresponding stamp in this place.
" (Signed)
Fiuxcisco SOLANO.
&noma, Tanuary 16, 1837."
"onona, January18, 1837.
"The undersigned grants, temporarily and provisionally, to
Francisco Solano, chief of the tribes of this frontier and captain
of the ' Suisun; the lands of that name, as belonging to him by
natural right and actual possession. Said land is comprehended
between the ' Portzuela and the Salina de Sucha.' The party
interested will.ask from the governmental of the state the usual
titles, in order to make valid his rights in conformity with the
new older of colonization.
"(Signed)
I
G1. VALLEJO."
He continued in the possession and occupation down to 1842,
when an application was made by his attorney, Vallejo, to Juan
B. Alvarado, constitutional governor of the department of California, for a title in form to the tract, as follows : " [s.L.]
To his Excellency the Governor: " The undersigned, a resident of Sonoma, respectfully appears
before your excellency, and representation makes, that, in virtue
of the rights which belong to him, as shown in the annexed
petition and marginal decree, he is in actual possession of the
land known by the name of ' Suisun,' together with its dependencies; and, in order to secure and legalize said ownership, he
humbly petitions that your excellency, in consideration of the
document referred to, may be pleased to grant him the corresponding title of concession, perpe.tual and hereditary, of the
aforesaid land, in order that, in no time, may the petitioner-or
his heirs be molested in the pacific enjoyment of his property.
"Wherefore, y6ur petitioner prays that your excellency will
deign to grant him the favor which he 'asks for, he swearing
that he is actuated by no malice, and such other oath as is required, &c., &c.
" As attorney of the petitioner,
"(Signed)
JuA-tN- ANTONIO VALLESO.
"Mlfonterey, January 15, 1852."
ilfonterey, Tinuar 28, 1S42.
"In consideration of the petition at the beginning of this
expediente, the report of the co'niuandzint-general, and the
merits and services of'the indian called Francisco Solano, ren-

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Ritchic.

dered on the frontier of Sonoma, I declare him to be owner
in fee of the place called I Suisun,' in extent four square
leagues, and with the boundaries shown in the corresponding
map. The corresponding patent will be made out, and this
expediente directed to the most excellent departmental junta for
its approbation.
"Juan B. Alvarado, constitutional governor of the department
of the Californias, thus ordered, decreed, and signed. Of which
I certify."
And, on the 21st January, 1842, the title in form was granted,
as follows: Juan B. Alvarado, constitutional governor of the
"[SEAL.)
department of the Californias.
" Whereas the aboriginal Francisco Solano, for his own personal benefit and that of his family, has asked for the land
known by the name of 'Suisun,' of which place he is native,
and chief of the tribes of the frontiers of Sononta, and being
worthy of reward for the quietness which he caused to be
maintained by that unchristianized people; the proper proceedings and examinations having previously been made, as required
by the laws and regulations; using the powers conferred on me
in the name of the Mexican nation, I have granted to him the
above-mentioned land, adjudicating to him the ownership of it.
By these presents, being subject to the approbation of the most
excellent departmental junta, and to the following conditions,
to wit "1. That he may inclose it, without prejudice to the crossings, roads, and servitudes, and enjoy it freely and exclusively,
making such use and cultivation of it as he may see fit; but
"ithinone year he shall build a house, and it shall be inhiatbited.
"2. He shall ask the magistrate of the place to give him jurid al possession of it, in virtue of this order, by whom the
boundaries shall be marked out; and he shall place in them,
esides the landmarks, some fruit or forest trees of some utility.
"13. The land herein mentioned is to the extent of four ' sitios
de ganado mayor,' (four square leagues,) with the limits as
shown on the map accompanying the respective ezpediente.
The magistrate who gives the possession will have it measured
according to ordinance, leaving the excess that may result to
the nation, for its convenient uses.
"4. If he shall contravene these conditions, he shall lose his
right to the land, and it may be denounced by another.
" In consequenee, I order that these presents be held farm and
valid, that a regiter be taken of it in the proper book, and that

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

537

The United States v. Ritchie.

it be given to the party interested, for his voucher and- other
purposes.
"Given this twenty-first day of January, one thousand eight
hundred and forty-two, at Monterey.
uNx B. ALVARADO.
"(Signed)
MANUEL JIMENO, Secretary."
"(Signed)
On the 3d October, 1845,. the grant was approved by the
departmental assembly, as follows: "Most'Excellent Sir: " The committee on vacant lands has ordered the expediente,
formed at the instance of the Indian, (Indigena,) Francisco Solano, for the place known by the name of I Suisun,' and being
satisfied that the proceedings had in the said expediente Were
-sufficient for the purpose, that the superior government should
have granted the said place, offers to the deliberation of your
excellency the following proposition -I
" The grant made by the superior government of the departmernt by a title legally issued, with the date 28th January, 1842,
in favor of the Indian, (Indigena,) Francisco Solano, of the place
known by the name of ' Suisun,' and situated in the jurisdiction
of Sonoma, in accordance with the law of August 18, 1824, and
article 5 of the regulations of November, 1828, is approved.
"Hall of the committee, in the city of Los Angelos, September 29, 1845.
FRANCISC DE LA GUERRA.
"(Signed)
MARCEso BARTELA."
"(Signed)
"Angelos, October 3, 1845.
"In session of this day, the proposition of the foregoing report was approved by the most excellent departmental assembly, ordering the original expediente to be returned to his excellency the governor, for suitable purposes.
Pro Pico, President.
"(Signed)

"(Signed)

AUGUSTIN

OLONA,

Secretary.

"On the same day, the proper copy was issued to the party
interested."
The tract was duly surveyed, the boundaries fixed, and the
grantee put in judicial possession, in conformity with the conditions of the grant, and which possession corresponded with
the provisional possession previously cdded to him in 1837.
On the 10th -May, 1842, Solano sold and conveyed the premises to Mariano Guadaloupe Vallejo, in full property, for the consideration of one thousand kIexicaf dollars; arid, on the 29th
May, 1850, Vallejo sold and conveyed the same to A. A. Ritchie,
the appellee, for the consideration of fifty thousand col1aii.'

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Ritchie.

No question is made as to the genuineness and good faith of
the original grant to the Indian, Solano, nor but that it was
made by the competent authority of the government to dispose
of the public lands.
The only objections taken to its validity, and upon which it
is denied that it had the effect and operation to separate the
lands granted from the public domain, are: 1. That Solano,
being an Indian, was not competent, according to the laws of
Mexico concerning the disposition of the public lands at the
time of the grant, to take and hold real property; and hence,
that the grant by the governor, and approved by the -depart.mental assembly, was inoperative and void; and, 2. That, if it
should be held that Solano was competent to take and hold
real property, still, the grant is void, on the ground that the tract
known by the name of " Suisun" belonged to the mission lands
in California, which the public authorities of that department
had no power to grant.
1. In answer to the first objection, we are referred to the plan
of Iguala, adopted by the revolutionary government of Mexico,
24th February, 1821, a short time previous to the subversion of
the Spanish power in that country, in which it is declared, that
"all the inhabitants of New Spain, without distinction, whether
Europeans, Africans, or Indians, are citizens of this monarchy,
with a right to be employed in any post according to their merit
and virtues;" and that "the person and property of every
citizen will be respected and protected by the government"
'We are also referred to the treaty of Cordova, 24th August,
1821, between the Spanish viceroy and the revolutionary party,
by which the independence of the country was for the time
established; and to the declaration of independence issued 28th
September, 1821, all reaffirming the principles of the plan of
Iguala.
Two decrees of the firs't Mexican congress are also referred
to; one adopted 24th February, 1822, and the other 9th April,
1823.
The first: " The sovereign congress declares the equality of
civil rights to all the free inhabitants of the empire, whatever
may be their origin in the four quarters of the earth." The
other reaffirms the three guarantees of the plan of Iguala:
1 Independence. 2. The Catholic religion; and 3. Union of
all Mexicans of whatever race.
There is, also, another act of the Mexican congress of the
17th September, 1822, carrying into practical effect this fundamental principle of the new government, as follows: " The
Sovereign Mexican constituent congress, with a view to give
due effect to the 12th article of the plan of Iguala, as being one

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

536

The United States v. Ritchie.

of those which form the social basis of the edifice of our independence, has determined to decree and does decree,
" Art. 1. That in every register and public or private document, on entering the name of citizens of this empire, classification of them with regard to their origin shall be emitted.
"Art. 2. That although by virtue of the preceding article,
there shall be no distinction of class on the parochial books,
that,which is at present observed will be continued in the regulations for the graduation of the civil and ecclesiastical taxes,
-until these shall be arranged in some other method more just
and proper.2
. In consistency with this fundamental principle of the Mexican government, as declared in the several acts above referred
to, namely, the citizenship of all the inhabitants, without distinction of blood or race, is the 9th article of the decree of 18th
August, 1824, on colonizatiQn, which provides, that "in the distribution of the lands, Mexican citizens are to be preferred, and
between them no distinction shall be made except such only as
is due to special merit and services rendered to the country, or
in equality of circumstances, residerice in the place to which
the lands to be distributed are pertinent; and the 16th article
provides, that "the government, conformably to the principles
established in this law, shall proceed to the colonization of theterritories of the republic."
Upper California, in which the lans inquestion are situate,
was one of those territories. And the first regulation made for
colonizing the territories, which was 21st November, 1828, pro*vided "that the governors of the territories are authorized, in
compliance with the laws of the general congress of 18th
August, 1824, and under the conditions hereafter specified, to
grant the vacant lands in their respective territories to such
contractors, (empresarios,) families or single persons, whether
Mexicans or foreigners, who may ask for them for the purpose
of cultivating or inhabiting them."
The Indian race having participated largely in the struggle
resulting in the overthrow -of the Spanish power, and in the
erection of an independent government, it was natural that in
laying the foundations of the new government, the previous
political and social distinctions, in favor of the European or
Spanish blood should be abolished, and equality of rights and
privileges established. Hence the article to.this effect in the
plan of Iguala, and the decree of the first congress declaring
the equality of civil rights, whatever may be their race or
country. These solemn declarations of the political power of
the government had the effect necessarily, to invest the Indians
with the privileges of citizenship as effectually as had -the

540

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Ritchie.

declaration of independence of the United States, of 1776, to
invest all those persons with these privileges residing in the
country at the time, and who adhered to the interests of the
colonies. 3 Pet. 99, 121.
The improvement of the Indians, under the influence of the
missionary establishments in New Spain, which had been
specially encouraged' and protected by the mother country,
had, doubtless, qualified them in a measure for the enjoyment
of the benefits of the new institutions. In some parts of the
country very considerable advancement had been made in
civilizing and christianizing the race. From their degraded
conditiop., however, and ignorance generally, the privileges
extended to them in the administration of the government
must have been limited ; and they still, doubtless, required its
fostering care and protection.
But as a race, we think it impossible to deny, that, under the
constitution end laws of the country, no distinction was made
as to the rights of citizenship, and the privileges belonging to
it,between this and the European or Spanish blood. Equality
between them, as we have seen, has been repeatedly affinned in
the most solemn acts of the government.
Solano, the grantee in this case, was a civilized Indian, was
a principal chief of his race on the frontiers of California, held
a captain's commission in the Mexican army, and is spoken of
by the witnesses as a brave and meritorious officer.
Our conclusion is, that he was one of the citizens of
the Mexican government at the time of the grant to him, and
that, as such, he was competent to take, hold, and convey
real property, the same as any other citizen of the republic.
2. As to the objection that the tract in question belonged to
the mission lands, which the public authorities in California
had no power to grant, there appears to be no foundation for
this objection.
As early as 17th August, 1833, the Mexican congress decreed
that "the government will proceed to secularize the missions
of Upper and Lower California;" and various regulations are
prescribed for carrying this policy into effect.
Again, 26th November, the same year, it is declared that
".the government is empowered to adopt all measures which
shall secure the colonization and render effective the secularization of the missions in Upper and Lower California, being
authorized to use in the most convenient manner the property
devoted to pious uses, in the said territories, for that purpose."
Aaain, by a decree of -14th April, 1834, it is declared that
Call the missions of the republic will be secularized."
Under these laws, the authorities empowered to grant the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

.541

The United States v. Ritchie.

public lands have dealt with these mission establishments the
same as with any other portions of the public domain; the
clergy, who previously had the charge and control of them,
being confined simply to the ecclesiastical and spiritual direction and government of the missions.
W6 could refer, had we time, to a body of authority on: this
part of the case, in addition to that above mentioned; but we
deem it unnecessary, and shall close by affirming the de6ree of
the district court
It is conceded that the lands in question do not belong to the
class called Pueblo lands, in respect to which we do not intend
to express any opinion, either as to the power of -the authorities
to grant or the Indians to convey.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL..
I concur in the judgment of the court upon the facts disclosed
in the record.
I am unable to find evidence to show that the lands in dispute were attached -to the mission of San, Francisco Solano,
for the single sentence in the deposition of Vallejo, "that in
1835, according to the rules of secularization, the *grantee had
acquired the rights of possession," is too vague, and include
too little of a reference to facts to rest any argument that the
grant to Solano was of mission lands, contrary to the laws of
Mexico. I therefore am not willing to pass any judgment
upon the subject of the mission lands of California. Nor do I
consider that fhe sufficiency of the conveyance from Solano to
Vallejo, a question before us. The conveyance of Solano was
recognized before a public officer, and has been followed by
possession. For the purposes of this case this is sufficient.
This was decided in Percheman's case, 7 Pet 51-98. The
court say there, that the questions'upon the validity of m~sne
conveyances have no interest to, the United States, and they
cannot be investigated or decided.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the district court of the United States for the
northern district of California, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said district
court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed.
VOL. XVII.

