DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

48

Barribeau et al. v. Brant.

This case cannot be distinguished from the case of United
States v. King et al. 7 How. 833, and of Uhited States -v.
Turner's Heirs, 11 How, 663.
The decree of the district court must therefore be reversed,
and a mandate issued to the court below to dismiss-the petition.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the record,
from the district court of the United States for the eastern
districtof Louisiana;, and it appearing to the court that this case
cannofbe distinguished from the case of the United States v. King
et al. 7 How. 833, and of the United States v. Turner's Heirs,
11 How. 663, it is thereupon now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said district
court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and
annulled, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said district court, with directions to dismiss the petition.

PIERRE BARRIBEAU

AND EuPHRAsIE

T. PERRY, APPELLANTS,

V. JOSHUA B. BRANT.
Where the death of a party complainant was suggested at December term, 1851, of
this court, and his legal representatives did not appear by the tenth day of this
term, the bill must, as to him, be entered, abated under the 61st rule of this court.
As to the other complainant, the allegation that a deed which she executed ought to
be set aside, upon the ground of fraud and misrepresentation, and inadequacy of
price, is. not sustained by the evidence.; nor is the allegation that'she was a jointtenant, and not a tenant in common, sustained by a construction of the deed.
Where the complainant, after filing his bill, conveyed all his interest to a trustee, and
died pending an appeal which he took to this court, the trustee cannot be permitted
to be made a party to the proceedings in this court. The only persons who can
appear in the stead of the complainant, are those who, upon his death, succeed to
the interest he then had, and upon whom the estate then devolves.

This was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It .was argued by .lir. :Bradley, for the appellants, and by
-ffr.Lawrence, for the appellees.
The argument consisted, upon both sides, in the application
of well-established principles of law to the facts in the case, as
disclosed by the evidence. There being no - principle of law
disputed, it is not necessary to state the contradictory testimony
which furnished the basis of the respective arguments.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court

44

SUPREME COURT.
Barribcau et al. v. Brant.

This is an appeal from the decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Missouri, sitting as a court of
Equity.
The case is this: Pierre Barribeau was seised in fee-simple of
a lot of ground in the town of St. Louis; and, by deed dated
May 8, 1829, conveyed it to Joseph White, in trust for the
grantor, during his life, and after his death for his two sons.
Adrian and Pierre, and his adopted daughter, Euphrasie, who
had grown up in his family.
After the death of the grantor, his sons, Adr-'n and Pierre,
and White, the trustee, joined in a deed to Brant, the appellee,
for all the interest of the two sons in the lot. But at the time
this deed was made, Pierre had not attained the age of twentyone years. Subsequently, however, he executed a deed of confirmation, and in that deed professed to convey two undivided
third parts of the premises.
Euphrasie, the adopted daughter, executed a deed to
Amaranth Loiselle, purporting to convey the whole of this lot.
And, afterwards, she and Amaranth made separate deeds, on the
same day, to Samuel Merry, for her third part of the premises;
and Merry afterwards conveyed to Brant. If, therefore, the
several deeds above mentioned are valid, Brant is entitled to the
whole lot.
Adrian died intestate, and without issue. .And, after his death,
Pierre and Euphrasie filed this bill, charging that all of the deeds
made by them respectively, and by Adrian in his lifetime, were
obtained by'misrepresentation and fraud; that they were illiterate, and did not understand the object and effect of these
instruments when they were executed; and that the consideration paid was far below the real value of the property. The
bill further charged that Pierre was still under the age of twentyone when he made the deed of confirmation.
The answer of Brant denies all fraud and misrepresentation,
and avers that the parties were perfectly aware of the contents
of the several instruments when they were executed, and that
the price was a .fair one, according to the value of the property
at that time; and that Pierre was of full age when he made the
deed of confirmation.
Many witnesses were examined by the parties in support of
their respective allegations, and, at the final hearing, the bill of
the complainants was dismissed by the circuit court. And from
this decree the complainants have brought this appeal.
It would be tedious and useless, in this opinion, to go into an
examination of the testimony given by the different witnesses.
Much of it has very little if any bearing upon the question in
dispute. It is very evident, indeed, that the complainants were

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Barribeau et al. v. Brant.

illiterate and weak-minded. But there is abundant proof that
they were perfectly aware of the contents of the several instruments, and of the objecf and purpose for which they were
executed.
And, although the prices paid for the different
interests were undoubtedly very moderate; yet they were not
so inadequate as to authorize the court to declare the deeds
void on that ground. The inadequacy must be tested by the
value of the property at the time of the sales, and not by its
present value. The first deed from the two Barribeaus and
White to the respondents, was made September 3, 1833. The
deed of confirmation from Pierre, August 7, 1836; and the
deeds from Euphrasie, and Amaranth Loiselle to Merry, February 1, 1836. The complainants did not seek to disturb these
conveyances, or take any measures to impeach them, until
March 20, 1849, when this bill was filed, and when property in
St. Louis was greatly enhanced in value, as compared with
its value in 1833 and 1836. It is, perhaps, the greatincrease in
the value of this property between the tim.e of the several sales
and .the time.of filing this bill, that has led to this controversy.
But upon the evidence in the record, we think the charge of
fraud and misrepresentation is not sustained; and that there
is sufficient -proof, that Pierre was of full age at the time the
deed of confirmation was executed.
It has been contended, on the part of the complainants, that
under the deed from Pierre Barribeau, the elder, to White, the
three cestui que trusts took a joint interest, and that, upon the
-death of one or more of them without lawful issue, the share
of. the deceased was limited over to the survivors or survivor.
And as Adrian died before the filing of the bill, and Pierre has
died pending this appeal, and both of them without lawful
issue, Euphrasie, the surviving complainant, claims the entire
lot by virtue of the limitations over in the deed of trust. And if
this be #he construction of the deed, she is entitled to a decree
for the shares of the two sons, although she has sold and conveyed her own one third, as above stated.
But this construction cannot be maintained. The trustdeed,
it is true, is unskilfully drawn. But -is very clear, upon 'the
whole instrument, that an equitable interest, as tenants in common in fee-simple, was secured to them by the deed; and that
their conveyances, together with that of the trustee, passed the
whole interest, legal and equitable, to the respective purchasers.
It appears 'hat shortly after this bill was filed, Pierre, the complainant, conveyed all his interest in the property to Benjain
A. Massey, in trust for a natural daughter, born of an Indian
mother, and living in the Indian country; and a motion has
been. made to make him a party in this court, as the representative of Pierre.

46

SUPREIE

COURT.

Barribeau et al. v. Brant.

The decision of this motion, either way, could have. no
influence upon the rights of the parties. For as the court is of
opinion that the deed of confirmation made by Pierre was valid,
and conveyed his one third to the appellee, the decree in the
court below dismissing the bill, must be affirmed, even if Massey
was permitted to appear.
But in this stage of the proceedings he cannot be permitted
to become a party, as the representative of Pierre. The bill
was filed by Pierre, and this appeal taken by him. He has died
pending this appeal; and the only persons who, upon principles
of law and the rules of this court, can be permitted to appear
in his stead, are those who, upon his death, succeed to the interest
he then had, and upon whom the estate then devolves.
But the interest of Massey was acquired in the lifetime of
Pierre, and no new interest accrued to him upon Pierre's death;
and if he desired to be3ome a party, in order to rhaintain his
rights as trustee, he should have applied for leave to become a
complainant while the cabo was pending in the circuit court.
The estate has not devolved upon him by the death of Pierre,
and he has the same interest now which he had upon the execution of the deed; and has no greater right to become a party
here, after Pierre's death, than he had before.
In the opinion of the court, therefore, as Pierre's death was
suggested at December term, 1851, and his legal representatives
have not appeared by the tenth day of this term, the bill must,
as to him, be entered, abated under the 61st rule of this court.
And, as regards Euphrasie, the other complainant, it must be
dismissed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the
record, from the circuit court of the United States for the-district
of Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed, by this court, that
this appeal, as to Pierre Barribeau, be, and the game is hereby,
abated, pursuant to the 61st rule of this court; and it is further
ordered and decreed that this appeal, as to Euphrasie T. Perry,
be, and the same is hereby dismissed, with costs.

