SUPREME

COURT.

Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

ALEXANDER M. LAWRENCE! AND OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF THE
SHIP HORNET, APPELLANTS, V. CHARLES MINTURN.
A consignee of goods has a right, in his own name, to libel a vessel for their nondelivery, unless there is domething to show that he had no interest in them. The
presumption is, that he had an interest, and to defeat the right to sue, in his own
name, this presumption must be rebutted by proof.
In the present case, there is no such proof.
The goods being thrown overboard, the facts in this case show that the jettison was
justifiable, and the loss occasioned by the perils of the sea.
The nature of the contract explained between the master and owner of a vessel and
the shipper, where the latter knows that the articles shipped are to be carried upon
the deck, and the cases upon this subject examined.
In this case, the evidence shows that there was no want of due diligence and skill,
either in the construction of the vessel or the stowage of the cargo.

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the district court of the
United States for the northern district of California, sitting in
admiralty. Minturn libelled The Hornet, for the non-delivery of
two steam-boilers and chimneys, shipped on board of that vessel
in the port of New York, and consigned to the libellant.
Alexander M. Lawrence and seven others intervened, as claimants, anAl after a hearing upon the pleadings and proofs, the district judge decreed that the libellant should recover $25,275, and
costs. From this decree the claimants appealed to this court.
The case is stated in the opinion of the-court.
It was argued by Mr. Cutting, for the appellants, and by Mr.
Lord, for the appellees.
Mr. Gutting, before stating the points of law which arose in
the case, examined the evidence, from which he contended that
the following positions were established: 1. That the ship Hornet was as good a ship as sailed out of
the port of New York, at the time she commenced this voyage,
and as well qualified as any vessel of her size to carry the boilers in the manner in which they were shipped.
2. That the contract of affreightment was, that the boilers
should be carried on deck, in the manner in which they were
carried.
3. That the boilers were stowed, and secured in that position,
in the best and safest manner; and that the residue of the cargo
was well stowed with regard to carrying the boilers on deck.
She was in good sailing trim, and steered very well.
4. That in the judgment of all the experienced navigators
who have testified on this subject, without a dissenting voipe,
the ship was, at the time of leaving the port of New York, capable of carrying the boilers, as a deck load, to San Francisco.
That the shipper and his agents assented to, and acquiesced in,

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

101

Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

that judgment. And no evidence has been furnished that any
person entertained, much less expressed, a doubt of the success
of the voyage.
5. That it would not have been possible to carry the boilers
to San Francisco, or to have retained them longer on the ship,
consistently with the safety of the lives of those on board.
The experience acquired in the first storm clearly established
this.
6. That the boilers were throwvn overboard as soon as it was
practicable, after the ship encountered the gale.
7. That this jettison was with due deliberation, and an act
of necessity.
8. That the ship-owners were not guilty of any negligence,
even the slightest, either in undertaking to transport these goods
on deck, or in the construction, equipment, or navigation of the
ship, or in the stowage of these goods, or in the manner of stowage of the rest of the cargo in reference to these goods, or in the
quantity of cargo taken ill below deck.
Points of Law.
I. The libellant had no right, merely as consignee, to institute
this action in his own name.
II. The boilers were lost by one of the excepted perils, even
if the ship be held to its responsibility as a common carrier.
1. The carrier is not responsible for the loss by jettison of
goods laden on deck with the assent of the shipper, when such
jettison is necessary to save the vessel and the crew. Gould V.
Oliver, 4 Bing. N. C. 142, per Tindal, C. J.; Case cited by
Coke, in Bird v. Astcock, 2 Bulst. 280; Approved Sto. on Bail
§ 531 ; Mouse's Case, 12 Coke, 63; Gillett v. Ellis, 11 III. R.
579 ; Johnston v. Crane, 1 Kerr. 356 (New Brunswick Rep.);
Smith v. Wright, 1 Caines's R. 43, and note (a,) 45 ; Crosby r.
Fitch, 12 Conn. 419, 420; Da Costa v. Edmunds, 4 Canp.
142.
2. The loss occurred by dangers of the seas, within the meaning of .the .bill of lading. The gale of the 26th and 27th of
August, was a severe gale, accompanied'by a very heavy cross
sea, which strained the ship, opened her seams, and caused her
to leak badly; under these circumstances the 'weight of the
boilers caused the decks to settle, and jeoparded the safety of
the vessel. Although she was capable of withstanding ordinary
.weather, it was manifest that she could not outlive another
gale.
3. The loss could not have been guarded agahist,- or foreseen
by any ordinary exertion of human prudence or skill. The
9*

SUPREME

COURT.

Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

shipper and the ship-owners, in this respect, concurred in the
judgment that the ship was capable of carrying this extraordinary deck load, and all proper precautions were adopted, in order
to insure its safety.
4. The circumstance that human agency intervened to cast
the boilers into the sea, makes it none the less a loss by perils
of the seas. Hagedorn v. Whitmore, 1 Stark. 157; Barton v.
Wollitbrd, Comb. 66; Gillett v. Ellis, 11 Ill. 579; Smith v.
Scott, 4 Taunt. 126.
III. The shipper having contracted for the shipment of the
boilers on deck, cannot, in the absence of fault or negligence in
the carrier, recover for a loss by perils incident to that mode of
transportation. Gould v. Oliver, Tindal, C. J., 4 Bing. N. C.
142; Baxter v. Leland, Blatch. R. 526 ; Clark v. Barndwell,
12 How. 272, 281-2; Shackleford v. Norton, 9 Louisa. R. 33,
39; Angell Car. §§ 215, 217.
It was by one of that class of perils that the boilers were
lost.
IV, The ship-owners were not common carriers as to these
goods; they were special bailees under a particular contract,
and in respect to this transaction, are to be treated as private
carriers, who incur no responsibility beyond that of an ordinary
bailee for hire. They are answerable only for misconduct or
negligence, or the want of that diligence which prudent men
commonly take of their own goods. Special Contract, 5, 66;
N.J. S. Nay. Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How. 344, 382; Citizens' Bank v. Nantucket Steamboat Co. 2 Sto. R. 16, 34, 36 ;
Allen v. Sewal, 6 Wend. 335, 355, 364; Wells v. The Steam
Navigation Co. 2 Comstock R 208; Edwards v. Sherratt,
1 East. R. 604, 611; Thomas v. Prov. and .Bos. R. 1i. Co.
10 Metc. 472; Angell on Car. §§ 45, 46, 54, 89; Sto. on Bail.
§ 442.
V. The ship-owners did not warrant or insure that the ship
should be competent to carry the boilers on her deck to San
Francisco.
VI. The libel does not aver unseaworthiness, incapacity, or
fault of the ship, or any improper stowage of cargo, or any
overloading of the snip; and on the contrary it alleges the
failute to deliver, to have been caused solely by the mere carelessness, unskilfulness, and misconduct of the master and
mariners. The proofs and the right to recover must be confined to the allegations. 1 Car. and Payne, 251; Houseman
v. Schooner North Carolina, 15 Pet. 50.
This objection was taken at the trial, but the court ruled, that
if the loss was occasioned by the overloading of the ship, proof
might be given of that fact, and the libel sustained. Even if

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

103

Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

this ruling was correct, no proof of the*vessel being overloaded
was given; hor was she overloaded. The lading of the boilers
on -deck made the ship uneasy; but it was the shipper, and
not the master and mariners, who caused them to be placed
there, and the latter cannot be charged with carelessness, unskilfulness, or misconduct, onothat account.

'VII. The damages decreed to the libelant are excessive.
Lord, for the appellee, stated the libel, and then said,
The ship, in answer, sets up two matters in defence :1. That the shipper, in making the freighting contract, deceived
the agents of the ship, by representing the weight at about forty
tons, when, in fact, it is alleged to have exceeded fifty tons, in
the shipper's knowledge, on which representation the agents
relied.
2. That the ship having sailed from New York, on the 23d
August, 1851, experienced a storm at sea, near the edge of the
Gulf Stream, on the 26th of August, in which the ship labored
severely; the gale continued twenty-four hours; the ship was
very uneasy under her deck load, and on the 29th August, considering the ship in danger, and she leaking badly, the master
determined, after the gale was over, to throw over the .deck
load, to avoid the dangers which might arise in the next gale
which might occur. And that, on the 6th of September, the
preparations were begun for throwing over the steam machinery,
which was accomplished by the 12th September. She afre'rwards experienced the Equinoctial gale, commencing Septeniber 17th, and continuing until the 26th, in which the ship. if
she had not been relieved of her deck load, would, it is averred,
have foundered at sea, or leaked so as to damage all the cargo.
ir.

Points.

First Point. As to the pretended misrepresentation, no stress
appears to have been laid on it in the court' below.' In fact, the
freight contract was made on the 19th July, 18-51, while the
machinery iii question was in the course of construction, and •
its weight unknown to the libellant. It was made by Cuningham, BelkUap, and Co., and finished between the 1st and 19th
August
Sccond Point. The next question involved is, whether the
jettison was owing to the perils excepted in the carrier's engageT
ment, namely: dangers of the sea, fire, and collision. ij)he
two latter are to be laid out of view, as having no bearing on
the case; and the only questiofl is, whether the jettison was
caused by dangers of the sea.

SUPREME

COURT.

Lawrence et al. v.

M1inturn.

1. The contract of the carrier in its nature requires the utmost
care and diligence on his part, and also a ship fit and capable
of performing the engagement, unless defeated in so doing by
vis major. Although perils of the sea be the immediate cause,
still, they are not within the exception, unless they have been
encountered after all the obligation of the carrier has been performed. Thus, if badly stowed, and thereby exposed to sea
perils in a storm, or if the ship be unfit for the voyage, the
occurrence of sea accident to cargo thus exposed to them,
will not discharge the carrier.
As the obligation of the carrier is, by his own contract, h6
would be liable on the principles of law, notwithstanding all
accidents, unless he had expressly excepted them. And the
exception is not to be enlarged by implication. See Spence v.
Chodwick, 10 Adol. and Ellis,. N. S. Rep. 517, where the law is reviewed.
2. Loading a ship beyond her capacity is a matter at the
charge of the carrier. His contract warrants her ability to
perform the voyage in safety, so far as that depends on the ship.
Secret defects are at his risk, and not at that of the shipper.
He is to determine the quantity of cargo she can safely carry.
He alone can be presumed to know her capabilities, defects, and
weaknesses. It is his instrument for performing his contract,
and as he gains by its perfection, he must suffer by its imperfection.
3. Indeed, it seems scarcely reasonable to pretend, that where
the subject is exposed to the sea, as a cause of danger, it can be
said to suffer from that, when it was not prepared to meet it:
and suffers only from the defective, unskilful, careless, or insufficient1means adopted to guard against the danger.
4. It must therefore be judged, that overloading, or improperly
loading a ship, takes away the exception of-the bill of lading,
especially if the damage to cargo arises from it.
Now, overloading and improperly loading have reference to
the capabilities of the ship, whether old or new, well built or
badly built, staunch or weak, in relation to the cargo which is
engaged to be carried, and the place where it is to be placed.
All these are matters within the engagement of the carrier, and
are to be carried out by him.
5. And the burden lies on him to excuse himself, by shoving
that the damage arose without his fault and by the excepted
peril. The shipper commits his goods to the carrier's care, he is
not present during the voyage, he cannot detect secret faults or
neglects, and is in no equality with the carrier, as to proving the
cause of the loss. The law throws the burden of making out
the whole excuse on the carrier.

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

105

Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

Third Point. Has the carrir, in this case, shown the jettison
within the exception, as thus expounded? Has the ship met
the storms and gales to be expected on her voyage, with suitable fitness to meet them, so far as her own carrying qualities
and a reasonable loading are involved?
The evidence may be classed into that-which relates: 1. To
the conmencement of the voyage. 2. To the conduct of the
shp before jettison. 3..To her conduct afterwards; from all
which it will appear that the ship-owner loaded her too heavily.
The evidence of the claimant's witnesses alone will be cited.
Mr. Lord then exariined the evidence.
Fourth Point. The libel is properly brought in the name. of
Charles Minturn, the consignee, to whom the delivery was to
be made, and by whom the freight was to be paid. The bill
of lading was a sufficient contract and title paper to him.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Thia is an appeal from a decree of the district court of the
United States for the northern district of California, sitting in
admiralty. The appellee filed his libel in that court, against the
ship Hornet, for the non-delivery of two steam-boilers and
chimneys, shipped on board that vessel in the port of New York,
and consigned to the libellant.
The appellants intervened, as owners of the ship, and, upon
the pleadings and proofs, the district court made a decree in favor
of the libellant. The claimants appealed.
The first question to be deterfmined on the appeal is, whether
the libellant had a right to sue in his own name. The facts
bearing on this question are, that on the nineteenth day of July,
1851, Edward Minturn, at New York, made a contract with the
agent of the ship Hornet, which was reduced to writing, as
follows :Memorandum of agreement to ship on board the ship Hornet,
by Edward Minturn, Esq., two boilers, two chimneys or steamchests, smoke-pipes in sheets, and some grate bars, in all about
forty tons weight, from this port to San Francisco, California, for
the sum of forty-five hundred dollars, with five per cent. primage :
the whole to go on deck, except the grate-bars and sheet-iron
for smoke-pipe. It is understood that the shipper is to put them
on the deck of the vessel at his expense, and the ship is to discharge them as soon as convenient, and they are to be received
at Cunningham's wharf, in San Francisco, without other than
the ordinary charge per day for discharging. It is further understood that the said boilers are to be ready to go on board the

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

vessel on the ninth day of August, or as sooii thereafter as the
ship may require them, giving shipper two days' notice thereof.
(Signed)
EDWARD MINTURN.
E. B. SUTTON,

Ag'ent for ship Hornet.

It appeared that the boilers and chimneys were manufactured
in New York, upon an order given by James Cunningham;
that they were intended for the steamer Senator, a boat then in
California; that James Cunningham and Edward Minturn were
part owners of The Senator, and that they paid the makers for
these articles. The bill of lading was as follows :
210. Shipped, in good order and well-conditioned, by Edward
Miinturn, on board the ship called The Hornet, whereof Lawrenc
is master, now lying in the port of New York, and bound for
San Francisco, California, to say: two boilers, and two steamchimneys for ditto, eight pieces sheet-iron work, three pieces
pipe, one band, two hundred and four grate-bars, sixteen gratebar bearers, eight boiler bearers, six man-hole plates, eight boiler
doors, one bundle (four) bolts, two boxes; the whole to be discharged as soon as convenient, and to be received at Cunningham's wharf, in San Francisco, without other than.the usual
or ordinary charge for discharging per day; being marked and
numbered as in the margin.
Freight

-

-

5 per cent. primage

- $4,500 00

.

Goods to be delivered at the

225 00 Z vessel's
tackles when ready to
be delivered.
Not accounta-

$4,725 00 1 ble for breakage, leakage, or
E. B. SUTTON,
rust; freight payable before
84 Wall street.
delivery, if required; and are
Dispatch line California packto be delivered, in like order
ets.
and, condition, at the port of
o San Francisco, (the dangers
of the seas, fire, and collision only.excepted,) unto Charles Mnturn, or to his assigns, he or they paying freight for the said
boilers, steam-chimneys, and other iron work, forty-five hundred
dollars, with five per cent. primage, and average accustomed.
In witness whereof the master or purser of the said vessel
hath affirmed to four bills of lading, all of this tenor and
date, one of which being accomplished, the others to stand void.
Dated in New York,&the 19th day of August, 1851.
(Signed)
WILLIAM W. LAWRENCE.
Upon the proofs, we are of opinion .that the libellant had a
right to sue the carrier in his own name. He is the consignee
named in the bill of lading; and, in the absence of 'evidence to
control the effect of that document, the property is presumed to

D-OEMBER TERM, 1854.

107

Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

be in him. In Evans v. Mlarlett, 1 Lord Raymond, 271, it is
laid down that "if goods, by bill of lading, are consigned to A,
A is the owner, and must bring the action against the master
of the ship if they are list; but if the bill be special, to be delivered to A, to the use of B, B ought to bring the action."
"Whether it be strictly correct to affirm that in the case first
put, A shall have a rigt of action against the carrier, though in
point of fact he be only an agent for the consignor, hae been
much controverted. In Griffith v. Ingledew, 6 S. and R. 429,
goods were shipped by A for his own account and risk, but
deliverable under the bill of lading to B or his assigns. The
previous decisions were examined with great care. There was
a difference of opinion on the bench,, Mr. Justice Gibson dissenting; but the majority of the court held, that by force of the
bill of lading the legal title was in the consignee, and he could
maintain the action.
Since that decision was made, the question has been much
discussed, both in this country and in England. It is not easy
to reconcile the decisions. We shall not attempt to do so here;
the case does not require it. For, if we take the rule to be that
an action against the carrier cannot be brought by a 'consignee
who has no beneficial interest in the goods, it still remains true,
that a presumption of such an interest in the consignee arises
from a bill of lading which makes the goods deliverable to him
or his assigns. This is admitted in the cases in which it has
been held that the consignee had not the right of action or was
not liable for the freight. Coleman v. Lambert, 5 M. & W.
502; Wright v. Snell, 5 B. and Ald. 350 ; Chandler v. Spraigpie,
5 INkt. 306.
In Grove v. Brien et al. 8 How. 439, this court said: "The
effect of a consignment of goods generally is to vest the property
in the consignee;" and though it is also there declared that this
effect may be controlled by special clauses in the bill of lading,
or by evidence aliunde, yet the general effect of a bill of lading
to raise a presumption of property in goods in him to whom it
makes them deliverable, is conceded.
This is in accordance with the rule given in Abbott on Shipping, pages 415, 416.
Such being the presumption arising from the bill of lading,
we do not find it to be controlled by any proof in this case. It
does appear that Edward linturn and James Cunningham
were part owners of The Senator, for which boat these boilers
and chimneys were intended, and that they contracted with the
makers of the articles and paid for -them, and that Edward.Minturn shipped them in New York. But all this leaves, open the
question, whether the libellant was not the, managing owner

108

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

and ship's husband of The Senator, residing in California, where
that boat was employed, attending to its repairs and supplies,
for the joint account of himself and the other owners. Indeed,
the testimony of Squire, an agent of the libellant, in the absence
of all other evidence, tends to prove that such was the fact; for
he speaks of himself as acting for the libellant in reference to
the management of The Senator, and says that, her boilers being
worn out, an order was sent out to obtain new ones, to replace
the old. We understand this order to have been given by the
libellant, for the boilers now in question.
Considering the burden of proof to have been on the respondents to displace the primdfacie right of action of the consignee,
arising from the bill of lading; that for aught he has shown,
and upon the proof, we may conclude that the consignee ordered
these articles as managing owner of The Senator; and that if so,
he, as consignee and managing owner, might sustain the libel
in his own name; this objection to the decree must be overruled.
The next inquiry is, whether the failure to deliver the boilers
and chimneys is justified?
The Hornet sailed from New York, on the 23d of August,
18.51, having these articles on deck. On the 5th of September
the chimneys, and on the 12th of September the boilers, were
thrown overboard.
Two questions arise:1. Was the jettison necessarily made for the common safety?
and, if so,
2. Was the necessity attributable to any, and what, fault on
the part of the master or the vessel ?
The material facts upon which the first of these questions
depends, are, that The Hornet was a -clipper-ship of about sixteen hundred tons burden, built at New York, in the years 1850
and 1851, of the best materials in use for first-class ships at that
port. She had a cargo under deck, and the weight of these
boilers and chimneys on deck was somewhat over thirty-one
tons. The height of each of the boilers, above the deck at the
forward end, when stowed, was about twelve feet. The steamchimneys were between fAve and six feet in diameter, and besides
these there was a piece of steam-pipe weighing 667 pounds.
The ship sailed on the 23d of August, and on entering the gulf
stream encountered rather heavy weather and a cross-sea. The
performance of the vessel in this sea was found to be bad. On
the 26th a gale came on from the south, veering to the northwest$
and lasted until the night of the 27th.
Though this gale was not of uncommon severity, it raised E
heavy cross-sea. The effect of this sea was to cause the ship

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

'109

Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

to roll down to leeward, so as to take in water over her rail;
she rose very slowly and then rolled over to windward, straining
and laboring in a manner described by the witnesses as very unusual. She would not mind her helm, but would fall off; she
would settle down aft and take in water over her stern, and
plunged heavily forward. At sundown on the 27th, the wind
lulled and the sea became more smooth. It was found during
and immediately after the gale, that the ship was very severely
strained, so as to open some wood-ends aft, one half to three
quarters of an inch, and her water-way seam half an inch,-and
that other injuries, of an alarming character, had been received.
The master then held a consultation with his officers, and drew
up the following protest: August 29,1851, latitude 310 0' N., longitude 610 51 W.
At sea, on board ship Hornet, of New York, William W.
Lawrence, master, bound from New York to San Francisco,
California.
We, the undersigned, master, officers, and mariners of the ship
Hornet, of New York, do, after mature and serious deliberation,
enter this solemn protest: That on the 26th day of August,
1851, the ship Hornet being then in or about the longitude of
490 W., latitude 370 N., experienced a gale of wind from
south, veering to N. W.; and that during said gale, which lasted
until the night of the 27th of August, the weight of the deck
load, consisting of two boilers, with furnaces attached, and two
steam-chimneys, (the whole supposed to be of the weight of
forty tons, or thereabouts,) did cause the ship to labor very hard,
rolling gunwale deep, shipping large bodies of water, straining
the ship in her upper works and decks, causing the ship to leak
badly, and her pumps constantly worked, placing our lives, ship,
and cargo, in imminent peril for their safety. ,We, now, there-'
fore, do most seriously and solemnly assert, that for the future
preservation of the ship, and thereby our lives and cargo, the
said boilers, furnaces, and chimneys are unsafe on the decks,
and for the safety of the whole should be thrown overboard as
soon as possible, the weather and sea permitting.
In testimony whereof to the above, we hereby subscribe our
respective names.
This protest was signed by all the officers and by such of the
crew as could write, and its substantial facts are testified to by
the master and officers who were examined in the cause, in such
a manner as to satisfy us of their truth.
Upon these facts, we have come to the conclusion that the
jettison was necessary for the common safety.
The nature of the case imposes on the master the duty, and
clothes him with the power, to judge and determine upon the
VOL. XVII.

10

110

SUPREME

COURT.

Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

facts before him, whether a jettison bi necessary. He derives
this authority from the implied consent of all concerned in the
common adventure. The obligation of the owners is to appoint
a competent master, having reasonable skill and judgment, and
courage; and they are liable, if through his failure to pbssess or
exert these qualities, in any emergency, the interest of the shippers is prejudiced. But they do not contract for his infallibility,
nor that he shall do, in an emergency, precisely what, after the
event, others may think would have been best.
If he was a competent master; if an emergency actually existed calling for a decision, whether to make a jettison of a part
of the cargo; if he appears to have arrived at his decision with
due deliberation, by a fair exercise of his skill and discretion,
with no unreasonable timidity, and with an honest intent to do
his duty, the jettison is lawful. It will be deemed to have been
necessary for the common safety, because the person to whom
the law has intrusted authority to decide upon and make it,
has duly exercised that authority.
Applying these principles to the case before us, we find no
reason to doubt that this jettison was thus necessary. It is true,
that when it was actually made, the sea was smooth, and the
ship in no immediate danger. But it satisfactorily appears, that
these boilers and chimneys could not be thrown overboard,
without the greatest risk, when there was any considerable sea.
To require delay until a storm, would be, in effect, to prohibit the
sacrifice. Precaution against dangers, which are certain to
occur, is surely proper. That they must experience gales and
heavy seas at that season, in that voyage, was so nearly certain,
that it was not unreasonable to act on the assumption that they
would occur, and prepare the ship to encounter them while in a
smooth sea, when alone they could do so.
We find the conduct of the master and crew in making the
jettison to have been lawful, and the remaining inquiry is,
whether the necessity for it is to be attributed to any fault on
the part of the master or owners.
The libel alleges the loss of the goods to have.been "through
the mere carelessness, unskilfulness, and misconduct of the said
master, his mariners, and servants."
We were at first inclined to the opinion that this allegation
is not broad enough to put in issue what the libellants have at
the hearing much relied on, and what we think is the main
question in this part of the case; the sufficiency of the ship to
carry this cargo. It is, no doubt, the general rule, that the
owner warrants his ship to be seaworthy for the voyage with
the cargo contracted for. But a breach of this implied contract
of the owners does not amount to negligence, or want of skill
of the master or mariners.

-DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

111

Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

There -would be much difficulty, therefore, in maintaining, as
a general proposition, that an allegation of negligence of the
master would let the libellant in to prove unseaworthiness of
the vessel.
But it mus'. be observed that this libellant relies not on general
unseaworthiness, but upon the fact that a vessel, staunch and
sufficient to carry a cargo, was overloaded by this burden on
the deck; and as the quantity of lading and the consequent
trim and seaworthiness of a vessel are matters as to which the
master is, generally speaking, bound to exercise his skill, and
over which he is intrusted for the benefit of all concerned with
a supervision, his failure to do so properly, is negligence, for
which the owner may be liable. While, therefore, we have
some difficulty in respect to the sufficiency of this allegation,
we think it is such as necessarily leads us into the inquiry,
whether the loss by jettison was occasioned by negligence, of
the master in overloading the ship. And a's we find it extremely
difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish between the obligation
of the owners and master, in these particulars, we shall proceed
to consider the question" whether the case is one of culpable
negligence, or is within the exception of perils of the seas contained in the bill of lading.
There. can be no doubt that a loss by a jettison, occasioned
by a peril of the sea, is a loss by a peril of the sea. In that
case the sea-peril is deemed the proximate cause of the loss.
But if a jettison of a cargo becomes necessary in consequence
of any fault Cj. breach of contract by the. master or owners, the
jettison is attributable to that fault or breach of contract, and
not to sea-peril, thdugh that also may be present and enter into
the case. This distinction is familiar in the law of insurance.
General Mut. Ins. Co. v. Sherwood, 14 How. 365, and cases
there cited.
In this case, did the necessity lor the jettison arise from any
fault or breach of contract by the master or owners?
Two grounds are assumed by the libellant. The first is, that
considering the great weight of these articles, resting upon a!
small part of the upper deck, sufficient means were not used to
support the weight and stiffen the ship, so as to prevent the
deck from being strained.
This was a new ship, built of sitch materials, and so fastened
and braced, as to be uncommonly strong. The owners employed
a ship-carpenter, who had worked on the vessel when built, to
do -whathe deemed necessary to support this unusual weight
on the-deck. He describes what was done. The master superintended these alterations. He and the carpenter deemed thiem
sufficient. They were both going to sea ii the vessel, the one

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

as commander, the other as carpenter, and can hardly be supposed to have omitted any thing which they thought necessary
for safety. The owners do not appear to have restricted them,
in point of expenditure. We cannot avoid the conclusion that
every thing was done which these men thought necessa yv; and
possessing, as they must be presumed to have done, competent
skill in their respective occupations, they believed this part of
the cargc was securely stowed, and fastened and stayed, to go
safely on the iroyage. In point of fact, however, after being
subjected to the action of the sea in a storm, it was found the
deck had settled.
The second ground taken by the libellants is, that the ship
was so overloaded, by the great weight of these articles on deck,
as to be unseaworthy; and as the jettison was made to relieve
the vessel from this condition, the owners are responsible for the
loss. In part, at least, the same principles of law Will be found
applicable to both these grounds, and therefore we consider
them together.
The principal question, and it is one of much importance,
is, what is the extent and operation of the implied contract of
the owner, respecting the ability of his ship to carry a particular deck load which he receives on board, under a contract
that it shall be carried on deck, dangers of the seas excepted?
In general, the owner warrants the sufficiency of his vessel
to carry the cargo put on board by the freighter, provided the
vessel be not injured by a peril of the sea. Besides this, he
contracts for the use of due care and skill in stowing the cargo
and in navigating the vessel.
But, in applying these rules to cargo on deck, some peculiar considerations must be borne in mind.
This bill of lading declares that the property is to go on deck.
It excepts perils of the seas. The exception must be construed
with reference to the particular adventure, which the contract
of affreightment shows was contemplated by the parties. Under this bill of lading the question is, not what in other circum,stances could be deemed a peril of the sea, but what is to be
deemed such when operating on this vessel, \vith this deck
load. If a very burdensome cargo, like iron, is taken on board,
and heavy weather met with, and a jettison made, it would not
be a ground of claim. against the owner, that the weather
encountered would not have been sufficient to justify a jettison
if the cargo had been cotton.
And when this freighter consented to place on the deck of
this ship his boilers and chimneys, weighing upwards of thirty
tons, not distributed about the deck, but lying in a small space,
must he not be taken to have known that their necessary effect

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

113

Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

might be to embarrass the sailing of the ship in a gale of wind,
and cause her to labor in a heavy sea. The grounds upon
which the rights and obligations, as to contribution, of owners
of cargo on deck, in case of jettison, have long rested, have an
intimate connection with this question, Valin, lib. 3, tit 8,
art. 12, giving the reason of the rule, that goods jettisoned from
the deck are not paid for in general average, but contribute if
not thrown over, says: " The reason why articles on deck,
thrown overboard or damaged, are not contributed for, is, thatas they cannot but embarrass the working of the ship', the. presumption is, that they have been jettisoned before a full necessity for a jettison of cargo arose, and only because they hindered
and confused the manceuvring of the vessel."
This has been still more clearly expressed by Locrd, in his
Commentary on the Code du Commerce Maritime, lib. 2,
tit. 12, art. 421. He says: "Perhaps the common safety would
not have made a jettison necessary if the lading had not been
in contravention of rule, if it had not brought the dangers on
the vessel, or contributed to enhance them." Similar views
have been taken by the most approved writers on the law of
insurance, in this country and in England, and they have been.
applied in many cases. Abbott on Shipping; 481,:490, and
notes; 3 Kent's Comm. 240; 2 Phillips on Ins. 71; 2 Arnold on
Ins. 890. It was remarked by Lord Denman- in Milward v.
Hibbert, 3 Ad. & El. N. S. 120, that "the reason- assigned by
Valin, that goods on deck embarrassed the navigation of the
ship, is not sufficient to form the basis of a universal rule,
excluding goods on deck from the benefit of contribution;
because it may be that, in many cases,.goods can best and
most safely be stowed on deck; and that they may, in some
cases, ')e so stowed as not to be in the way of the crew in their
operations. This may be true; but the point here is, not whether
there may be cases in which the deck load does not embarrass the navigation or increase the danger, but whether, in case
it .does so, the shipper, who has consented to his goods being
placed on deck, under a special contract, and not pursuant tc
any general custom, which might be evidence of the safety 'f
the practice, must not be taken to have known that such might
be its effects.
It was strongly urged, by the libellant's counsel, that the
shipper could not be supposed to have, and should not suffer
for not possessing, a knowledge of the capacity or sufficiency
6f the ship; that the carrier was bound to know that the instrument, by which he agreed to perform a particular service, was
sufficient for that service; and that, as these carriers contracted
to convey this deck load to San Francisco, they were obliged to

114

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence et al. v. Minturn.

iscertain whether placing it on deck would overload their vessel.
I'his appears to have been the ground on which the court below
rested its decree.
This reasoning would be quite unanswerable, if applied to a
shipment of cargo under deck, or to its being laden on deck
without the.consent of the merchant, or to a contract in which
perils of the sea were not excepted. But the maritime codes
and writers have recognized the distinction between cargo
placed on deck, with the consent of the shipper, and cargo
under deck.
There is not one of them which gives a recourse against the
master, the vessel, or the owners, if the property lost had been
placed on deck with the consent of its owner; and they afford
very. high evidence of the general and appropriate usages, in
this particular, of merchants and ship-owners. Consolato, par
Pardessus, c. 186; Ord. de Mer, Valin, lib. 2, tit. 1, art. 12;
Code du Com. Mar. par LocrA, art. 229, lib. 2, tit. 4, art. 229;
Emerigon, ch. 12, see. 42; Boulay Paty, tom. 4, 566, 568.
So the courts of this country and England, and the writers
on this subject, have treated the owner of goods on deck,
with his consent, as not having a claim on the master or owners of the ship, in case of jettison. The received law, on the
point, is expressed by Chancellor Kent, with his usual precision,
in 3 Corn. 240: " Nor is the carrier in that case (jettison of
deck load) responsible to the owner, unless the goods were
stowed on deck without the consent of the owner, or a general
custom binding him, and then he would be chargeable with the
loss."

The cases of Smith et al. v. Wright, 1 Caines's R. 43; Dodge
v. Bartol, 5 Green. 286 ; Hiampton v. The Brig Thaddeus, 4 Martin's Lou. R. 582; Story on Bailments, 339, sec. 531; and Gould
v. Oliver, 4 Bing. N. C. 142, support this statement. In the lastmentioned case, Tindal, C. J., says: " Now, where the loading
on deck has taken place with the consent of the merchant, it is
obvious that no remedy against the ship-owner or master, for a
wrongful loading of the goods on deck, can exist. The foreign
authorities are, indeed, express on that point; and the general
rule of the English law, that no one can maintain an action for
a wrong, where he has consented or contributed to the act which
occasions his loss, leads to the same conclusion."
It must be admitted, that no one of the authorities referred
to go so far as to maintain that the ship-owner contracts no
obligation whatever to the merchant, respecting the sufficiency
of the vessel to carry the deck load received on board. They
should not be understood as supporting such a position. The
extent to which we understand them to go, and the law which

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Lawrence et al. v.

115

Mlinturn.

we intend to lay down, is this: that if the vessel is seaworthy
to carry a cargo under deck, and there was no general custom
to carry such goods on deck in such a voyage, and the loss is
to be attributed solely to the fact that the goods were on deck,
and their owner had consented to their being there, he has no
recourse against the master, owners, or vessel, for a jettison
rendered necessary for the common safety, by a storm, though
that storm, in all probability, would have produced no injurious
effect on the vessel if not thus laden. It is not for him to say
that, in the first storm the vessel encountered, though not of
unusual severity, she proved to be unable to carry the deck load,
and so was not of sufficient capacity to perform the contract
into which the carrier entered.
The carrier does not contract that a deck load shall not embarrass the navigation of the vessel in a storm, or that it shall
not cause her so to roll and labor in a heavy sea, as to strain and
endanger the vessel. In short, he does not warrant the sufficiency of his vessel, if otherwise stanch and seaworthy, to withstand any extraordinary action of the sea when thus laden. If
the vessel is in itself stanch and seaworthy, and her inability to
resist a storm arises solely from the position of a part of the
eargo on the deck, the owner of the cargo, whp has consented
to this mode of shipment, cannot recover from the ship or its
owners, on the ground of negligence, or breach of an implied
contract respecting seaworthiness. His right to contribution is
not involved in this case.
Applying these principles to the case before us, there is no
difficulty in coming to a satisfactory conclusion. This vessel
was -uncommonly stanch and str9ng. The amount of dead
weight on board was not excessive, for there is no pretence that
she w- s too deep in the water. There was no apparent inability to carry the deck load when she sailed, nor until heavy seas
were encountered. Her inability to carry these boilers and
chimneys arose solely from their particular position on deck.
The libellant, through the shipper in New York, consented to
their being placed in this position. He took the risk of their
rendering the ship unmanageable in a storm; and he, and not the
ship-owners, must bear the loss occasioned by their being placed
on the deck, so far as the liability for the loss rests upon any
ground of negligence in the place of stowage, or breach of warranty respecting the seaworthiness of the vessel. As to the
argument, that there was negligence in not properly stowing
and supporzing this burden on deck, we think it is not made
out in proof. The master is bound to use due diligence and
skill in stowing and staying the cargo ; but there is no absolute
warrantk that what is done shall prove sufficient. We are of

116

SUPREME COURT.
Stewart v. The United States.

opinion that due diligence and skill were used. Besides, we
do not find the necessity for the jettison attributable to any
defects in these particulars. It may be, that additional supports
of the lower deck would have assisted the vessel in bearing the

weight, but we see no reason to believe they would have enabled
it to carry this unusual burden through a storm; and, therefore,
if we found negligence in this particular, we could not declare
that the loss was to be attributed to it.
The decree of the district court is to be reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the libel with costs.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the north-

On con-

ern district of California, and was argued by counsel.

sideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed

by this court, that the decree of the said district court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said dis-

trict court, with directions to that court to dismiss the libel with
costs.

ADAM 1). STEWART, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.
STATES.

THE

UNITED

Congress have directed by law that in certain cases th0 duties of collectors of the
revenue -should be united with those of naval officer or surveyor of the port, but
never with thcse of inspector of the customs.
Therefore, where a person held the two offices of collector of the revenue and inspector
of the customs, and charged a salary for each office separately, it was irregular.
In May, 1822, congress passed an act, (3 Stat. at Large, 693,) directing that "no
collector, surveyor, or naval officer, shall ever receive more than $400 annually,
exclusive of his compensation as collector, surveyor, or naval officer, and the fines
and forfeitures allowed by law for any services he may perform for the United
States in any other office or capacity."
This act was intended to provide compensation to the collector, &c., for extraordinary
services incident to their respective offices, and to them only; but did not include
the union of the two offices of collector and inspector of the customs. A different
mode and rate of compensation for inspectors was provided by law.

Tuis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit

court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
There was an agreed statement of facts in the record, which

is transcribed in the opinion of the court, and therefore it is
unnecessary to recite it here.

Stewart was sued in 1835, and voluntarily appeared.

From

