606

SUPREME COURT.
Dennistoun et al. v. Stewart.

record from the district court of the United States for the district of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
the judgment of the said district court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs

ALEXANDER DENNISTOUN, JOHN DENNISTOUN, WILLIAM CRAIG
MYLNE, AND WILLIAM WOOD, PARTNERS, UNDER THE STYLE
OF A. DENNISTOUN AND COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

ROGER STEWART.
Where the protest of a bill of exchange contained an exact copy of the bill, but
the acceptance was made by "Chas. Byrne," instead of "And. E. Byrne," as
it was in the original bill, this variance or error in the name of the acceptor's
agent ought not to have excluded the protest from being read in evidence to the
jury.
It is unnecessary that a copy of the protest should be included in the notice to the
drawer and indorsers. The object of the notice is to inform the party that
payment has been refused; and hence such a description of the note as will give
sufficient information to identify it, is all that is necessary.
In this case, the protest had an accurate 'copy of every material fact which could
identify the bill: the date, the place where drawn, the amount, the merchandise on
which it was drawn, the ship by which it was sent, the balance on the cotton for
which it was accepted, the names of drawers, acceptor, indorsers ; every thing but
the abbreviations and flourishes in the Christian name of the acceptor's agent. This
mistake could not mislead any person as to the identity of the instrument described.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the southern district of Alabama.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Phillips,for the plaintiffs in error, no
counsel appearing for the defendant.

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs declared against the defendant, as drawer of a
bill of exchange, by the name and style of James Reid and Co.,
of which the following is a copy: Mobile, Sept. 9, 1850.
X4,417 14s. lid. st'g.
"No. -.
" Sixty days after sight of this first of exchange, (second and
third unpaid,) pay to the order of ourselves, in London, forty.
four hundred and seventeen pounds, 14s. lid. st'g, value re-

607

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Dennistoun et al. v. Stewart.

ceived, anat charge the sp me to account of 1,058 bales cotton per
'Windsor Castle.'
" Your obedient servants,
"Pr. pro JAMES REID- ND Co.,
"WM.
"To HY. GORE BOOTH, EsQ., Liverpool.

MOULT, JR.

"Acceptance across the face of the bill.
"Seventh October, 1850. Accepted .for two thousan'd five
hundred and seventy-one pounds eighteen shillings and seven
pence, being balance unaccepted for aept. 1,058 bf. cotton, pr.
Windsor Castle, payable at Glyn and Co.
"Pr. pro -ENRY GORE: BOOTH,
"AND.

E. BYRNE.

"Due 9 Decem.
"Indorsed:
"Pay Messrs. A. Dennistoun and Co., or order,
"Pr. pro JAMES REID AND

CO.,

" WM. IOULT, JR."

After reading this bill, -with its indorsements, *the plaintif
offered in evidence a regular protest; indorsed on a copy of a
bill agreeing in every particular with the above, except that for
"9And. E. Byrne" was written " Chas. Byrne."
The defendant objected -to the reading of the protest in, evidence, because it did not describe the bill of exchange produced
by the. plainti. ,.but a different bill. The court sustained this
objection,. and excluded the protest from the jury, which is the
subject of the first bill of e3ceptions.
A protest is necessary by the dustom of merchants in case of
a foreign bill, in order to charge the drawer. It is defined to be
in form "a solemn declaration written by the notary under a
fair copy of the bill, stating that the payment or acceptance has
been demanded and refused, the xeason, if any, assigned, and
that the bill is, therefore, protested."
A copy of the bill, it is said, should be prefixed to all protests,
with the indorsements transcribed verbatim. 1 Pardess. 444;
Chitty on Bills, 4-58.
. However stringent the law concerning mercantile paper, with
regard to protest, demand, and notice, may appear, it is nevertheless founded on reason and the necessities of trade. It exacts
nothing harsh, unjust, or unreasonable. A protest, though necessary, need only be noted on the day on which paynent ;was
refused. It may be drawn and completed at any time before
the commencement of the quit, or even before the trial, and consequently may be amended according to the truth, if any mistake
has been made.

SUPREME COURT.
Dennistoun et al. v. Stewart.

The copy of the bill is connected with the instrument certifying the formal demand by the public officer, as the easiest and
best mode of identifying it .with the original. Mercantile paper
is generally brief, and without the verbiage which extends and
enlarges more formal legal instruments. Hence, it is much
easier to give a literal copy of such bills, than to attempt to
identify them by ary abbreviation or description. The amount,
the date, the parties, and the conditions of the bill, form the
substance of every such instrument. Slight mistakes, or variances of letters, or even words, when the substance is retained,
cannot and ought not to vitiate the protest. A lost bill may be
protested, when the notary has been furnished with a sufficient
description, as to date, amount, parties, &c., to identify it.
In indictments for forgery, it is not. sufficient to state the
"substance and effect" of the instrument, it must be laid according to the "tenor," or exact letter; but the law merchant
demands no such stringency of construction. The sharp criticism indulged when the life of a prisoner is in jeopardy cannot
be allowed for the purpose of eluding the payment of just debts.
It is unnecessary that a copy of the protest should be inclpded
in the notice to the drawer and indorsers. The object of notice
is to inform the party to whom it is sent that payment has been
refused by the maker, and that he is held liable. Hence such a
description of the note as will give sufficient information to
identify it, is all that is necessary. What was said by Mr. Justice Story, in delivering the opinion of this court, in Mills v. The
Bank of the United States, with regard to variances and mistakes in notices, will equally apply to protests: "It cannot be
for a moment maintained that every variance, however immaterial, is fatal. It must be such a variance as conveys no sufficient
knowledge to the party of the particular note which has been
dishonored. If it does not mislead him, if it conveys to him the
real fact, without any doubt, the variance cannot be mateAal,
either to guard his rights or avoid his responsibility."
In the case before us, the protest had an accurate copy of
every material fact which could identify the bill-the date, the
place where drawn, the amount, the merchandise on which it
was drawn, the ship by which it was sent, the balance on the
cotton for which it was accepted, the names of drawers, acceptor,
indorsers; in fine, every thing necessary to identify the bill.
The only variance is a mistake in copying or deciphering the
abbreviations and flourishes with which the christian name of
the acceptor's agent is enveloped. The abbreviation of "And."
has been mistaken for Chas., and the middle letter E. omitted.
The omission of the middle letter would not vitiate a declaration or indictment Nor could the mistake mislead any person
as to the identity of the instrument described.

DECEMIBER TERM, 1854.

609

Griffin et ux. v. Reynolds.

We are of opinion, therefore, that the objection made to this
protest, "that it does not describe the bill of exchange produced,
but a different bill," is not true in fact, And should have been
overruled by the court.
This renders it unnecessary for us to notice the offer of testimony to prove the identity, which was also overruled by the
court.
The judgment of the circuit court is reversed, and venire de
novo awarded.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the Iited States for the southern
district of Alabama, and -was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit
court, with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

JACK

T.

GRIFFIN ANb WIFE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR; V. JAiES Y.
REYNOLDS.

Where a suit was brought for damages sustained by the breach 6f a covenant of warranty of title to land in Alabama, and the plaintiff, in order to establish the existence
of an outstanding paramount title at the date of the conveyance, offered the record
of a ruit in ejectment against his grantor, in which suit the plaintiff himself had
been . witness, this record should have been allowed to be given in evidence, with,
out any reservation.
The ruling of the court was, therefore, erroneous, admitting the record, but referring
it to the jury to determine whether the testimony given by the plaintiff was material, and if so, to disregard the evidence.
In order to show an outstanding title, a copy from the records of the probate court in
Alabama, of a deed of trust from the origin-1 owner of the land, was offered in, evidence, but no evidence was offered to account for the original. This copy should
not have been admitted.
The deed containing the warranty upon which the suit was brought, was properly admitted in evidence, being an original deed, duly acknowledged and recorded.An instruction to the jury was erroneous, namely, that if the plaintiff had not lost all
the land conveyed to him by the defendant, then the jury might allow him the
average value of the part lost, in proportion to the price paid fbr the whole. 'The
true measure of damage was the loss actually sustained by the eviction from the
land for whi-h the title has failed.
Although the deed of warranty was properly made by the grantor and wife, in order
to bar her dower, yet an action upon the covenant of warranty cannot, be brought
against her. She can make no such covenants.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the district

