DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

The City of Providence v. Clapp.

creditors by the cession. 4 Ann. Rep. 492, 493; 11 Louisiana
Rep. 521; 8 Rob. 128; 9 lb. 223. Consequently, if, under .the
ambiguous or erroneous description in the schedule, this lot
must-be regarded as omitted, it still passed by the cession, and
Corney had no remaining interest in it.
Neither can there be any constitutional objection to this law
of the State. The validity of a state law of this description
has been fully recognized in the case of Peale v. Phipps and
others, 14 How. 368, and in the .previous cases therein referred
to, and cannot now be considered as an open question.
e see no error, therefore, in the judgment of the circuit court,
and it must be affixmed..
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United Statesfor the eastern district
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that.
the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed with costs.

THE

CITY

OF

PROVIDENCE,

R.

PLAINTIFF

IN EIROR,

. DANIE

CLAPP.

The statutes of Rhode Island require towns to keep the highways safe and convenient for travellers, at all seasons of the yeari and, in case of neglect, " that they
shall be liable to all persons, who may in anywise suffer injury to their persons or
I
property, by reason of any such neglect."
These s.atutes extend to cities as well as towns, (or townships,) and also to sidewalks, where they constitute a part of the public highways. The city of Providence was, therefore, bound to keep those side-walks convenient and safe, in- a
reasonable degree, for pedestrians; and, when a fall of Snow took place, it was the
duty of the city to use ordinary care ani diligence to restore the side-walk to a
reasonably safe and convenient state.
It was for the jury to find whether or not this was accomplished, by treading down
the snow; and, if not, whether the want of safetyand convenience was owing to
the want of ordinary care and diligence on the part of- the city. - In considering whether due diligence required the city to remove the snow, the jury
ought to take into consideration the ordinances enacted by the city, not as prescribilg a rule binding on the city, but as evidence of the fact that a removal, and not-a
treading down of the snow,-was reasonably necessary.
THIS case was brought up by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Rho'de Islan'd.
It was a suit brought by Clapp against the
-of ci'ty 'rovidence, to recover damages for an injury occasioned by an- ob-,
struction on the side-walk in one of its principal stieets. The
14*

162

SUPREME COURT.
The City of Providence v. Clap'p.

obstruction consisted of a ridge of hard-trodden snow and ice,
on the centre of the side-walk, along which the plaintiff was
passing in the night time, and by means of which he fell
across the ridge, breaking his thigh-bone in an oblique direction. The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and assessed
his damages at $3,379.50.
The circumstances of the case, and the rulings of the court
which gave rise to the bills of exceptions upon which the case
came up, are stated in the opinion of the court
It was argued by Mr. Ames, for the plaintiff in error, and by
MI1r. .encks, for the defendant.
The points made by Mr. Ames were the following :
1. That the duty of the towns and cities of Rhode Island,
in dealing with falls of snow in their highways and streets, is
created and imposed- solely by the statutes of Rhode Island,
and must be measured by the standard appointed by those
statutes.
2. That the liability of said towns and cities, in civil actions,
to individuals, for injuries sustained by them in their persons
or property, through neglect of duty on the part of said towns
or cities, in mending their highways and streets, and in removing therefrom permanent obstacles to passage, as well as temporary ones caused by the falls of snow, is created and imposed
solely by said statutes, and cannot be extended beyond the
statute measure thereof. Russell v. Inhabitants of Devon, 2 T.
R. 667; Mower v. Inhabitants of Leicester, 9 Mass. R. 247;
Loker v. Inhabitants of Brookline, 13 Pick. R. 346; Tisdale v.
Inhabitants of Boston, 8 Met. R. 388; Holman v. Inhabitants of
Townsend, 13 Ib.297, 300 ; Brailey v. Southborough, 6 Cush. R.
141,142; Hull v. Richmond, 2 Woodb. and Minot's R. 341,342;
Reed v. Inhabitants of Belfast, 20 Maine 1. 246; Chidsey v.
Canton, 17 Conn. R. 478-480; Morey v. Town of Newfane,
8 Barb. Sup. Ct. R. 646, 648, 650-653; Lumley v. Gye, 20 Eng.
Law and Eq. R. 189; Sawyer v. Inhabitants of Northfield,
7 Cush. 494-496; Smith v. Inhabitants of Dedham, 8 1b. 524;
Farnum v. Concord, 2 New Hamp. R. 392.
3. That, by the statute of Rhode Island, entitled " An act for
the mending-of highways and bridges," the towns and cities of
Rhode Island are bound only to keep their highways and streets
open, in case of falls of snow, so as to be passable for travel.
lers, and not to keep them from being slippery from ice or trod.
den-down snow; and that the requisition, in this statute, that
the highways and streets be kept safe and convenient for travellers, at all seasons of the year, refers, so far as the incumbrance
of snow is concerned, if it refer at all to such incumbrance, to

DECEMBER TERM,' 1854.

163

The City of Providence v. Clapp.

safe and convenient passage through and over the same, in
opposition to allowing the highways to remain, in case of falls
of snow, blocked up and impeded thereby, so as to be unsafe
and inconvenient of passage, and not to safety and conve- °
nience, in the sense of being kept free from ice or trodden-down
snow, so that foot travellers or cattle may not slip or fall
thereon.
That this appears, from the language used in the 1st 'section
of said act, applied to its subject- in the climate of New England, as well as by collating therewith the 14th 'and 15th sections of the -same statute, and the 6th section of the- act entitled "An act for mending highways," passed in 1798, and that
the above construction of said statute is the accustomed, sensible - and,- indeed, looking to the'statute as a practical guide
to duty- the necessary construction to be put thereon. Digest
of Laws of R. L of 1798, pp. 386, 087; lb. of 1844, pp. 323,
326.
4. That the acts of the State of Rhode Island, relating to
the side-walks of the city of Providence, do not change, in any
way, nor extend the duty or liability of said city, in relation to
the incumbrance thereon of snow, but were procured to be
passed by said city, merely to enable it to provide for the building and maintaining of side-walks in said city, in a mbde and
at a charge and through an instrumentality differeht from those
I
applied by law to other portions of the streets. '
6, That, still less do the ordinances of said city, requiring'the
owners and occupants of lots and buildings therein to remove
all the snow from the side-walks in front of the same, within a'
specified time, under penalty for neglect in this' respect, create
or extend or change the character of the duty of the city, in
regard to the incumbrance 'of snow, nor create nor extend nor
change the character of the liability of said city, for injdries
occasioned by the said incumbrance. Levy v. l fayor, &9., (if
New York, -1 Sandf. Sup. Ct. N. Y. R. 465.
6. That said side-walk acts and ordinances afford no test or
standard of the degree or kind of care, or mode of dealing with
falls of snow, required of the city of Providence'by the statute
of Rhode Island, entitled "An act for the mending of highways and bridges," which, notwithstanding said acts and 6rdinances, and the different condition of Providence, applies the
same standard, in this respect, to the other towns of the State,
as to said city; but are municipal regulations merely, extending the powers of the city of Providence, and by-laws 'passed'
by the legislative body of said city, imposing duties 'and lia:-,
bilities upon her citizens, in respect to side-walks, and, the
removal, of snow therefrom, Without increasing or extending
her own.

SUPREME

COURT.

The City of Providence v. Clapp.

The points made by Mr. Tencks, for the defendant in error,
were the following: 1. That the statute of Rhode Island entitled "An act for the
mending of highways and bridges," imposes upon the towns
and citics of that State, the duty of keeping highways in
a safe and convenient condition for travellers, at all seasons
of the year, and creates a liability on the part of such town
or city, to any person using such highway with ordinary and
proper care, who suffers injury in consequence of any defect
in such highway, or obstruction thereon which the town or city
might have removed by the use of ordinary care and diligence,
and which while thus negligently suffered to remain, rendered
such highway inconvenient and unsafe. Cassedy v. Stockbridge,
21 Vermont, 391. Frost v. Portland, 11 Maine, 271; Bigelow
v. Weston, 3 Pick. 267; Springer v. Bowdoinham, 7 Greenl. 442;
Raymond v. Lowell, 6 Cush. 534.
2. That this duty and liability extends to side-walks when
they constitute a part of the highway or public streets; and
such side-walks are required to be kept in a safe and convenient
condition for pedestrians, as the roadway is for horses and
carriages. Brady v. City of Lowell, 3 Cush. 121; Bacon v. City
of Boston, Ib. 174; Drake v. City of Lowell, 13 Met. 292.
3. That the degree of convenience and safety which is required
by said statute, and the degree of care and diligence which
the towns and cities must bestow upon the highways, in order
to relieve themselves from liability under the statute requirement, have relation to the nature and uses of the highway, and
the frequency of its uses. That the same' standard is not to
be applied to the principal thoroughfares of the city of Providence, as to a cross road in the country, but that the law as to
the extent of repair, and what will constitute obstructions rendering a public way unsafe and inconvenient, must depend, in a
good degree, on the locality of the road.
4. That the law is the same when applied to obstructions of
highways or side-walks by snow, as to any other obstruction,
and the duties and liabilities of towns and cities in reference to
the want of safety and convenience in their highways, caused
by snow, as when caused by other obstructions.
That the latter clause of the first section of the statute does
not vary or limit the duty imposed by the first clause, but is
directory to the surveyor of highways in the performance of his
duty; .and that the word "p assable," means safely and conveniently passable, as well when applied to side-walks, as to
the other portions of the travelled highway. Loker v. Brookline,
13 Pick. 343.
5. That the several statutes of Rhode Island, concerning side-

DECEMBER

TERM, 18.4.

165

The City of Providence v. Clapp.

walks in the city of Providence, authorize the construction of
side-walks in said city, and such side-walks being constructed and
accepted by the city, under the authority of said act, it becomes
the duty of the said city to keep said side-walks in a safe and
convenient condition for pedestrians, at all sea.ons of the year.
That whenever a fall of snow shall render any such side-walk,
not conveniently safe and passable, the city is bound to use
ordinary care and diligence to restore said side-walk to a reasonably safe and convenient state. That the sttute referring
generally to all highways, and all parts of such highways, points
out the two modes, one of removing the snow, and the other of
treading it down, for $he purpose of rendering such highways
safe and convenient; and the city of Providence, by their ordlnances, have prescribed the rnle for thetrselves and their citizens,
by directing a removal of the snow from the side-walks, and
have provided for the enforcement of this rule by their officers,
and by penalties on the owners and occupants of estates.
6. That the public statute contemplates a removal of the snow
in some cases, and a treading down in others, is manifest from
the nature of the obstruction itself; it being an obstruction to
travellers with sleds and sleighs, only when drifted or lying light,
and subject to drift; as when trod down it greatly facilitates all
travelling with vehicles adapted to the altered condition of the
roads. But snoy, under all conditions, is an obstruction to the
pedestrian, and his safety and convenience are best provided
for by an entire removal of it from his path. Hence the obligation to make the pathway set apart for such travellers, safe and
convenient,in a large city, and along one ofits principal thoroughfares , is not satisfied by leaving the snow to be trod down as it
felI in drifts, or to be thawed and frozen into ridges of several
inches in height, in such a manner as to throw down pedestrians
using ordinary care and caution, although the side-walk might
be passable in the sense that the snow was to be waded through
or climbed over, or otherwise avoided by such travellers.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
Thiz is a writ of error to the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Rhode Island.
The suit was brought in the court below against the city of
Providenc6, to recover damages for an injury occasioned by an
obstruction on the side-walk in one qf its principal streets. The
obstruction consisted of a ildge of hard-trodden snow and ice
on the centre of the side-walk, along which the plaintiff was passing in the night time, and by means of which he fell across the
ridge, breaking his thigh-bone in an oblique direction.
After the evidence closed; the counsel for the defendants

SUPREME

COURT.

The City of Providence v. Clapp.

prayed the court to charge the jury that the statutes of Rhode
Island, requiring highways to be kept in repair, and amended
from time to time, so that the same may be safe and convenient
for travellers at all seasons of the year, as far as respected obstructions from falls of snow, merely required that the snow
should be trodden down or removed, so that the highways should
not be blocked up or incumbered with snow; but did not require
that said highways should be free from snow or ice, so that the
traveller should not be in danger of slipping thereon; and that
the said snow being so trodden down and hardened into ice, and
the side-walk not blocked up or incumbered therewith, but open
and passable in the sense of the statute, in this case the defendants were not liable.
The counsel for the defendants, also, after referring to the
statutes authorizing the city of Providence to build and repair
side-walks, and also to the ordinances of the city passed in pursuance thereof, further prayed the court to charge, fiat neither the
said statutes nor the ordinances defined or enlarged the duty or
liability of the city as to the removal of snow from the side-walks,
beyond that under the general statute of the State, nor were
they evidence of the degree of care required of the city by the
general statute; but that, notwithstanding the same, the city
would not be liable under the general law, if the snow on the
side-walk was trodden down so as to be open and passable.
The court refused so to charge; but charged, that, by the
statute law of the State, the city was obliged to keep this street
conveniently and safely passable at all seasons of the year; that,
by a special act, the legislature having authorized the city to
have side-mWalks designed for foot passengers, it was bound to
keep those side-walks convenient and safe for pedestrians; that
the law did not require absolute convenience or safety, b-dt safety
and convenience in a reasonable degree, having reference to the
uses of the way and frequency of its uses; that, when a fall of
snow takes place, so as to render a side-walk not conveniently
and safely passable, it was the duty of the city to use ordinary
care and diligence to restore it to a reasonably safe and convenient state. That the law does not prescribe how this shall
be done, whether by treading down or removing the snow; and
that it was for the jury to find, as matter of fact, whether the
side-walk, at the time in question, was in a reasonably safe and
convenient state, having reference to its uses; and if it was not
so, whether its want of safety End convenience was owing to
the want of ordinary care and diligence on the part of the city.;
and in considering whether due diligence required the city to
remove the snow, the jury ought to take into consideration the
ordinances, not as prescribing a rule binding*on the city, but as

DECEMBER

TERM,

1854.

167

The City of.Providence v. Clapp.
evidence of the fact that a removal, and, not a treading down of
the snow, wds reasonably necessary.
The Is, section of the ,statute of Rhode Island concerning
highways and bridges, provides, "that all highways, town-ways,
and causeways, &c., lying and being within the bounds of any
town, shall be kept in repair and amended, from time to time,
so that the same may.be safe and convenient for travellers, with
their teams, &c.," at all seasons of the year,, at the proper charge
and expense of such town, under the care and direction Qf the
surveyor or surveyor* of highways, appointed by law. , The
surveyors. are then authorized to remove all sorts of obstructions
or things that shall in any. way straiten, hinderq, or, incommode
any highway or town-way, and when blocked up or incumbered
with snow, they shall cause so much thereof to be removed or
trod down as will render the road passable.'
Among other provisions conferring upon the, towns power to
repair and amend the, public highways, the 4th section enacts
that each town, at some public meeting of the electors, shall
vote and raise such sm of money, to be expendedi.nlabor and
materials. on the highways, as they may deem necessary for that
purpose; and either the assessors or the town council,:as the
town may direct, shall assess the -same on the ratable estate of
ihe inhabitants, and all others, owning ratable property therein,
as other town taxes are by law assessed.'
And the 13th -ection provides that if the towvn shall neglect to
keep in good repair its, highways and bridges, she shall be liable
to indictment, and "shall also be liable to 'all.persons who may
in anywise suffer 'injury to. their persons or property by reason
.
*of any such neglect"
It is admitted that-tle defendant-, are not liable for the injury
complained of at common law, but" that the plaintiff must bring
the case within the above statute to sustain the action, It must
also be adxiitted, that the act applies to cities a8 wellas towns,
and also to side-walks where they constitute a part of the public
ihway. This has been repeatedly held by th . state courts in

-

several States, under statutes substantially like the one,.under
consideration. 13, Pick. 343; 13 Met. 297; 3 Cush. 121,,1-74;
4 Ib. 247; "6 lb. 141, 524;. 7 Greenl,. 442; 15',Verm. 708; .19
lb. 470; 21 b. 391; 2 N. Hamp.,392; 35 Maine, 100; Ib. 242.
The counsel for thedefendants, coneeding this view of. the
statute, and of the liability-of the city generally,contends that,
as it respects obstructions or impediments occasioned by the fall
of snow, and accumulations of ice, the liability is qualified, aind
exists only in case of neglect to .tread down or remove the snow,
sothat the hack be not blocked up and ineumnbered thereby.,?
and that, if the street. or. side-walk is passable oby not being

SUPREME COURT.
The City of Providence v. Clapp.

blocked up and incumbered with snow, as it respects this kind
of obstruction, it is made safe and convenient within the meaning of the statute. And the latter clause of the 1st section of
the act which directs that when the highways are blocked up or
incumbered with snow, the surveyor shall cause so much thereof to be removed or trod down as will render the road passable;
and also the 13th and 14th sections, which authorize the towns
to impose penalties for the removal of snow from highways, and
subjects the town to an indictment for neglect therein, are referred to as countenancing this modified liability.
But it will be found, on looking into the several decisioiis
under a similar act in Massachusetts, that no distinction exists
between obstructions of a public highway by falls of snow, and
those of any other description. In the case of Loker v. Brookline, 13 Pick. 346, 347, Morton, J., speaking of the 1st section
of the statute, observes, that language so general and explicit
cannot be misunderstood or restrained. It must extend to all
kinds of defects, as well as to all seasons of the year; and an
obstruction caused-by snow is as clearly included as one caused
by flood, or tempest, or any other source of injury. See also,
[3 Met. 297; 6 Cush. 141.
The foundation of the action rests mainly on the 1st and
13th sections of the statute. The 1st imposes upon the town
the duty of keeping in repair and amending the highways
within its limits, so that the same may be safe and convenient
for travellers at all seasons of the year; and the 13th declares,
that if the towns shall neglect to keep in good repair its
highways and bridges, it shall be liable to indictment, and shall
also " be liable to all persons who may in anywise suffer-injury
to their persons or property by reason of any such neglect."
The other provisions, and among them those referred to by
the counsel, relate to the powers conferred upon the towns to
enable them to fulfil the obligations enjoined, and to the powers
and duties of the several officers having charge of the repairs
of the highways.. Ample means are furnished the several tovns
to discharge their obligations under the statute.
The act of 1821, amended by the act of 1841, confers powers
upon the city of Providence, to build and keep in repair their
side-walks, at the expense of the owners of the adjoining lots;
and as may be seen from the several ordinances of the city,
given in evidence, these powers have been liberally exercised
for the purpose.
The powers of the towns and of the city are as ample for the
purpose of removing obstructions from the highways, streets,
und side-walks, arising from falls of snow and accumulations of
ice, as those arising from any other cause; and the reason for

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

169

The City of Providencc v. Clapp.

the removal, so that they may be safe and convenient for travellers, is the same in the one case as in the others. The 13th
section of the act which gives the personal remedy, makes no
distinction in the two cases; and, in the absence of somie plain
distinction pointed out by the statute, it would be -exceedingly
difficult, if not impossible, to state one. It is conceded: that an
obstruction from falls of snow or accumulations of ice must be
removed by the towns and cities, so as to make th6 highways
and streets passable; and that this is a duty expressly, enjoined
upon them. The question is, what sort of removal will satisfy
the requirement of the statute? It is admitted that, as it respects every other species of obstruction, the repairs must be
such that the highways and streets may be safe and convenient
for travellers; arId thal this is a question of fact to be determined by the jury. Is an obstruction by snow or ice to be determined by any other rule, or by any other. tribunal? The
counsel for the defendants suggests, that as it respects such
safety and convenience for travellers in case of falls of snow,
the statute should be construed as meaning merely that the
snow should be trodden down or removed, as that the highways
and streets should not be so blocked up or incumbered as not
to be safely and conveniently open and passable. But it is quite
clear that this would be a very indefinite and uncertain rule to
guide either the officers, whose duty it is to remove these , -ob;
struetions, or the jury in passing upon them when the subject
of legal proceedings. The suggestion may. be very well as an
argument to the jury, for the purpose of satisfying them that
the repairs in the manner mentioned were such as to fulfil the
requirement of the statute, but to lay it down as a rule of law
in the terms stated, might in many cases, and under the circumstances, fall far short of it.
The treading down of snow when it falls in great depth, or
in case of drifts, so that the highway or street shall not be
blocked up or incumbered, mayin some sense, and for the time
being, have the effect to remove the obstruction; but as -it respects the side-walks and their uses, this remedy.would be, at
best, temporary; and, in case of rains or extreme changes of
weather, would have the effect to increase rather than remove
it. It is but -common observation, and -knowledge of those
familiar with the climate of our northern latitudes, that not unfrequently the most serious obstructions arise from the great
depth of snow and changes in the temperature of the weather;
and that simply treading down the snow, and leaving it in that
condition without further attention, would have the effect to
render the highways and side-walks utterly impassable.
In the case also of obstructions from snow, the side.walks may
VOL'. XVIi.

15

170

SUPREME COURT.
The Schooner Catharine et al. v. Dickinson et al.

frequently require its removal, so as to make a safe and convenient passage for the pedestrian, when, at the same time, the
treading of it down in the street would answer the purpose for
the traveller with his team. The nature and extent of the repairs must necessarily depend upon their location and uses;
those thronged with travellers may require much greater attention than others less frequented.
The just rule of responsibility, and the one, we think, prescribed by the statute, whether the obstruction be by snow or
by any other material, is the removal or abatement so as to
render the highway, street, or side-walk, at all times safe and
convenient, regard being had to its locality and uses.
We are satisfied the ruling of thi court below was correct,
and that the judgment should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed, with c6sts, and interest until paid, at
the same rate per annum that similar judgments bear in the
courts of the State of Rhode Island.

CATHARINE, HER TACKLE, &C., STARKS W.
LEwis AND OTHERS, OWNERS AND CLAIMANTS, APPELLANTS,
v. NOAH DIcKINSON AND OTHERS, LIBELLANTS.

THE SCHOONER

In cases of collision, where the injured vessel has been abandoned, the measure of
damages is the difference between her value in her crippled condition and her value
before the collision; and this is to be ascertained by the testimony of experts, who
can judge of the probable expense of raising and repairing the vessel.
But where the vessel has been actually raised and repaired, the actual cost incurred is
the true measure of indemnity.
Where two sailina vessels were approaching each other in opposite directions, one
closehauled to the wind, and tbd other with the wind free, the weight of evidence
is. that the vessel which was closehauled, luffed just previous to the collision. This
was wrong; she should have kept her course.
The other vessel had not a sufficient look-out; the rxcuse given, namely, that all
hands had, just previously, been called to reef the sails, is not sufficient.
Both vessels being thus in fault, the loss must be divided.

THIS was an appeal in admiralty, from a decree of the circuit

