DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

1-7

The Bank of Tennessee, &c., v. Horn.

THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE, Bwx .-o
TENNESSEE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. LEWIS B. HORN.
By an act of the legislature of Louisiana, passed in 1826, all the property of an in.
solvent petitioner mentioned in his schedule, becomes vested in his creditors, from and
after the cession and acceptance; and the syndic is directed to take possession of it,
and to administer and sell it for the benefit of the creditors.
The courts of Louisiana have decided that all the property of the insolvent, whether
included in his schedule or not, passes to his creditors by the cession.
Therefore, it is of no consequence whether or not the description'of a particuair piece
of property be imperfect in the schedule; .and a purchaser of. it under the syndic
has a better title than one derived from a judicial sale, nhere the judgment had been
obtained after the acceptance of the cession and appointment of the synaic.
The validity of a state law of this description cannot now be cohsidered as an open
question.

THIS case was brought up) by writ of error, from the .cuit
court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Horn, who was the purchaser of the property under the syndic,
instituted a petitory suit in the third judicial district court of the
State of Louisiana, against Bernard and Hare, who were tenants
under the Bank of Tennessee. The Bank appeared to the suit,
and prayed for the removal of the case to the circuit court of
the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, which
was ordered.
The bill of exceptions which was tnken upon the tria], showed
the prayers addressed to the court by the counsel for the Bank,
and the rulings of the court thereon. The bill was asfollows:Be it remembered, that on the trial of this cause, the defendant,
the Bank of Tennessee, preferred to the court the following propositions of law arising on the agreed statement of facts, on
which it was insisted that this case should be ,decided in favor
of said Bank, and against the plaintiff, Lewis B. Horn, to wit: 1. Tho surrender of property by Peter Corney, in the state
court of Louisiana, did not transfer to his creditors the ownership
of any part or portion thereof, whether it was described or retferred to in the schedule or not, but the same remained the property of Corney notwithstanding the surrender.
2. The words "all the property of such insolvent debtor,
mentioned in said schedule, shall be full vested in his creditors,"
used by the legislature of Louisiana, in the act of 1826, in reg.rd
to insolvent debtors, cannot and ought not to be construed to
have reference to any propertywhich is not mentioned in the
schedule; but Droperty not naimed in the schedule remains in
the situation provided for by the laws of Louisiana, in force
prior to the passage of the act of 1826, and the rights of parties
thereto were not altered by the passage of said act.
VOL. XVII.

14

SUPREME COURT.
The Bank of Tennessee,

&c., v. Horn.

3. The only right which the creditors of Corney had in the
property which was surrendered, was one analogous to that of
pledge; that is, a right to take possessibn of and sell the
property, according to the forms of law, and apply the proceeds
to the payment of their debts, and was not a right of ownership.
4. That the surrender of Corney did not transfer to the creditors possession of any property whatever, whether mentioned
in the schedule or not; but only conferred on them the right to
take possession thereof, and to sell it in due course of law, to
pay the debts due to them.
5. The right of the state court to cause to be sold such property as they had reduced into possession, did not oust the
jurisdiction of the United States circuit court, in the case of the
Bank of Tennessee v. P. Corney, but that court rightfully proceeded to render judgment against said Corney, and to execute
the same, by seizing and selling the land in controversy.
6. Whatever may be the law in regard too the property described in the schedule, ahd reduced into the possession of the
creditors or syndic, the circuit court had an undoubted right to
execute its judgment, by causing the seizure and sale of property
not reduced into the possession of the syndic, and not described
on the schedule.
7. The act of the Louisiana legislature of 1826, in regard to
insolvent debtors, was not intended to change the law in regard
to the rights of any persbns named therein, to the property of the
insolvent, or to change in any manner the mode of proceeding
in the state court to enforce those rights; the legislature having
been extremely-careful, by provisos, to retain exactly the old law
in regard to the rights of property; but the said act was intended
only to effect a change in the remedies or final process used in
this court, by changing.the names of rights; and therefore the
court was bound altogether to disregard the said act of the
Louisiana legislature, so far as that act affects the process of
this court.
8. The syndic and auctioneer and Horn, as vendor and
vendee, had no right to treat the marshal's sale as a nullity, or
in any way to complain of it, after the sale by the marshal to
the Bank of Tennessee had regularly been made, without any
legal opposition on their part.
9. The acceptance of the surrender, by the, second district
court of New Orleans, and all orders made and' all proceedings
had in that court, have reference only to the property named in
the inventory, unless some other property is expressly named in
the proceeding itself; and therefore, they could have no effect
whatever on the right of the marshal to execute process, by a
seizure of property not named in the inventory, and not -expressly referred to.

DECEMBER- TERM,
The Bank of Tennessee,

1854.

159

&e., v. Horn.

And prayed that the said propositions should be sustained,•
and the cause finally decided in favor of the Bank; but the court
ruled all these propositions against the Bank of Tennessee,
and held the following positions to be law applicable to the
case:-.

1. That the surrender, in the. second district court of New
Orleans, divested Corney of all his rights of property, and vested
those rights in the creditors.,
2. That because, we had no lien and no right of payment in
preference to others, therefore we had no right to execute our
judgment 'in the circuit court, by.a sale of Corney's property,
although the fact of Corney's insolvency was not made known
to the court, and no objection was made to our proceeding.
'3. That the property was -in gremio legisby virtue of the
constructive possession arising from-the surrender in the second
district court of Ne* Orleans.
4. That it is but fair to assume'that'the property now in dispute was designed to be included by Corney in his schedule.
To all of which propositiois :as.well as to the whole opinion
of the court, which was, reduced to 'vriting, and-copy of which
is annexed to the bill of exceptions, the counsel of the Bank of
Tennessee objected, on the ground-that the~said propositions
made by the court, and its opinion, were contrary to law'and
justice, and tendere& this, fis bill of exceptions, to be signed by
the court, which is accordingly done.
This bill i. allowed so as to have -the same construction as if,
the case had been submitted to a jury, and these exceptions had.
been taken on the trial.
,
.

J. A. CAMPBELL,

Judge presiding.
Upon this bill of exceptions, the case came up to this court
and was submitted by M1Lr. Dunbar;upon a printed argument
of Messrs. Stockton and Steele, for the plaintiffs in error, and
argued by Me€. ."anin, for the defendant;>
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court
The facts in this case, as they appear on the record, are as
.
'
,
follows: SPeter Corney, jr., who resided in,New Orleans,_'on the 7th of
November, 1851, filed. a petition under the insolvent law of
Louisiana, in the second district court, declaring his inability tb
meet his engagements, and praying that a: cession of his property might be accepted' by the court for the benefit of his creditors, and that in the mean time all' proceedings against him
should be stayed. To this -petition, a scheduleof his proplerty

160

SUPREME

COURT.

The Bank of Tennessee,

&c., v. Horn.

was annexed, in which it is apparent that the lot in question was
intended to be included, but which is so erroneously described
that it can hardly be identified, by the schedule alone, as a part
of his estate.
The district court, on the day the petition was presented,
accepted the cession, and ordered a meeting of the creditors on
the 13th o- December following. The meeting was held accordingly, and a syndic appointed,, and a report of the proceedings
made to the court. On the 8th of March following the court
authorized a sale of the property now in dispute, by the syndic;
and at that sale, in May, 1852 he defendant ingror became
the purchaser.
The insolvent, at the time of his petition, was indebted to the
Bank, the plaintiff in error, in a large sum of money, for which
a suit was then pending in the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana. The Bank proceeded in
its suit and obtained judgment; but the judgment was rendered
after the cession had been accepted and the syndic appointed
by the creditors. The Bank, however, issued an execution,
under which this property was seized by the marshal, in February,
1852, and sold in the April following. The Bank was the
purchaser at this sale, and obtained possession of the lot under it.
The defendant in error, after his purchase from the syndic,
brought suit for the premises, and upon a trial in -the circuit
court of the United States for the eastern district of Tjouisiana,
recovered a judgment; the court being of opinion that the property in question vested in the creditors, upon the cession and
acceptance above mentioned, and was not liable to seizure under
the execution which issued upon the judgment afterwards obtained by the plaintiff in error.
By an act of the legislature of Louisiana, passed on the 29th
of March, 1826, all the property of an insolvent petitioner mentioned in his schedule is fully vested in the creditors, from and
after the cession and acceptance; and the syndic is directed to
take possession of it, and to administer and sell it, for the benefit
of the creditors. At the time, therefore, when the Bank obtained
judgment against Corney, the insolvent, he had no interest in
the lot ir question upon which the judgment could be a llen, or
which could be seized upon, on execution issuing on that judgment. The right and title to it had, by operation of the law of
the State, vested in the creditors, to be administered by the syndie, as their trustee.
Nor can the imperfect or erroneous description in the schedule
have any influence- on the decision. For it is well settled, by
decisions of the courts of Louisiana, that all the property of the
insolvent, whether included in his schedule or not, passes to his

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

The City of Providence v. Clapp.

creditors by the cession. 4 Ann. Rep. 492, 493; 11 Louisiana
Rep. 521; 8 Rob. 128; 9 lb. 223. Consequently, if, under .the
ambiguous or erroneous description in the schedule, this lot
must-be regarded as omitted, it still passed by the cession, and
Corney had no remaining interest in it.
Neither can there be any constitutional objection to this law
of the State. The validity of a state law of this description
has been fully recognized in the case of Peale v. Phipps and
others, 14 How. 368, and in the .previous cases therein referred
to, and cannot now be considered as an open question.
e see no error, therefore, in the judgment of the circuit court,
and it must be affixmed..
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United Statesfor the eastern district
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that.
the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed with costs.

THE

CITY

OF

PROVIDENCE,

R.

PLAINTIFF

IN EIROR,

. DANIE

CLAPP.

The statutes of Rhode Island require towns to keep the highways safe and convenient for travellers, at all seasons of the yeari and, in case of neglect, " that they
shall be liable to all persons, who may in anywise suffer injury to their persons or
I
property, by reason of any such neglect."
These s.atutes extend to cities as well as towns, (or townships,) and also to sidewalks, where they constitute a part of the public highways. The city of Providence was, therefore, bound to keep those side-walks convenient and safe, in- a
reasonable degree, for pedestrians; and, when a fall of Snow took place, it was the
duty of the city to use ordinary care ani diligence to restore the side-walk to a
reasonably safe and convenient state.
It was for the jury to find whether or not this was accomplished, by treading down
the snow; and, if not, whether the want of safetyand convenience was owing to
the want of ordinary care and diligence on the part of- the city. - In considering whether due diligence required the city to remove the snow, the jury
ought to take into consideration the ordinances enacted by the city, not as prescribilg a rule binding on the city, but as evidence of the fact that a removal, and not-a
treading down of the snow,-was reasonably necessary.
THIS case was brought up by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Rho'de Islan'd.
It was a suit brought by Clapp against the
-of ci'ty 'rovidence, to recover damages for an injury occasioned by an- ob-,
struction on the side-walk in one of its principal stieets. The
14*

