SUPREME COURT.
Boone v. The Missouri Iron Company.

ultimate recovery from Mexico, the congressional action upon
it, in every particular, to secure it, after the awards were made, to
those who might be entitled to receive it; the jurisdiction given
to the circuit court of this district, with an appeal from its
decision to this court, upon the principles which govern courts
of equity to adjudge disputes concerning it, and that such cases
were to be conducted and governed in all respects as in other
cases in equity, we must conclude that the complainant in this
case, as receiver, cannot be brought under the rule prescribed
for our decision. We concur with the court below in the dismission of the bill.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby
affirned with costs.

LEvi D.

BOONE, ADMINISTRATOR OF JESSE B. THOMAS, DECEASED, AND THE HEIRS OF J. B. THOMAS, COMPLAINANTS
AND APPELLANTS, v. THE MISSOURI IRON COMPANY.

Where a bill was filed for the specific execution of a contract, and it appeared that
the notes givep for the purchase of the property had never been paid, and the property was sold for the payment of the consideration-money, the bill was properly

dismissed-.
No principle in equity is better settled, than that he who asks a specific execution of
his contract must show a performance, on his part, or that he has offered to perform.

Neither of these was done in this case.

THIs was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Missouri.
The bill was filed by Thomas, in his lifetime, and referred to
a complicated history of transactions, running from 1836 to
1848, the date of the bill. A condensed narrative of these
transactions is given in the opinion of the court.
The circuit court dismissed the bill, and the comaplainants
appealed to this court.
The case was argued by MJr. Britton A. Bill, for the respondents, no counsel appearing for the appellant.
The argument of .Mr. tHill was so intimately connected with
the facts in the case, upon which he founded his legal infer-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

341

Boone v. The Missouri Iron Company.

ences, that the points of law could not, be made intelligible
without a detailed statement of the particular facts of the case.
The argument is, therefore, omitted altogether.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Missouri.
The bill prays the specific execution of a contract between
Thomas and the Missouri Iron Company, dated 15th August,
1839, which requires the defendants to give up and cancel the
notes of Thomas to Nancy Bullett, for $10,000, dated 2d November, 1836; to pay a debt due to Martin Thomas; to sell
or transfer, on the books of said company, for the use of the
complainant, $43,000 worth of stock of said company, or, in
the alternative, that the American Iron Company may be decreed to reconvey the one undivided selienth part of the Iron
Mountain tract to the complainant.
The complainant died in 1849, and, his death being suggested, an amended bill was filed, praying for an account of
rents and profits, for the -use of the land and consumption
of ores, timber, &c., by the defendants, and for a decree of
title, &c.
On the 2d November, 1836, Nancy Bullett, widow, sold to
her brother, the complainant, one undivided seventh part of a
tract of 20,000 arpens of land, in Washington county, Missouri,
known as the Iron Mountain tract; and she executed to him a
title-bond of that date, with the condition that she would convey to him the above interest, on the payment of two notes for
$5,000 each, one payable at six, the other at twelve months,
from the date of the bond. On the 15th of November, 1836,
Thomas made a similar title-bond 'to John L. Van Doren, with
the condition to make a deed, upon his paying the two notes
of $5,000 each to Mrs. Bullett; and also three notes, of $5,000
each, given by him -to Thomas, at eighteen, twenty-four, and
thirty months, from the date of the bond.
On the 31st of December, 1836, the Missouri Iron Company
was incorporated by the legislature of Missouri, and Van
Doren, Pease, and' Co. were named in the act as corporators.
The company was organized; books were opened to sell the
capital stock; Van Doren was appointed to obtain subscribers,
but, being unsuccessful, he failed, made an assignment, and
became insolvent. Agents were appointed to visit foreign
countries; who returned, making a report that a banker in Amsterdam subscribed $600,000 -of stock. The stock was raised
to $5,000,000, but the company soon became hopelessly embarrassed.

SUPREME

COURT.

Booe v. The Missouri Iron Company.

On the 22d of TFebruary, 18$9, James Bruce, who married
Mrs. Bullett, conveyed all their interest in the one seventh of
the Iron Mountain tract, to Allen and Sloan, and also assigned
the notes of Thomas to them, for the consideration of $4,500.
At the same time, Allen and Sloan gave a bond to Bruce and
wife, to convey to Thomas all their interest in the one seventh
of the tr act, on his paying to them $9,000, the amount'due on
the original pprchase.
On the 15th of August, 1839, A. Jones, president of the company, executed the following receipt to Thomas, under which
he claims a specific performance against the Missouri Iron Company, and the other defendants, to wit: " Received of Jesse B.
Thomas, of Sangamon county, Illinois, a transfer of $71,400
of the capital stock of the Missouri Iron Company, $43,000 of
which is to be transferred to Julius Sichel, of Amsterdam, to
consummate a contract entered into with him. The residue of
the stock to be appropriated to pay the balance due on the two
notes given to Mrs. Bullett," &c.
Oir the 2d September, 1841, the board resolved, that the
president be authorized to receive back from Thomas the stock
issued to him, &c.; and the secretary addressed to him a letter,
saying: " You will perceive that, by the above resolution,
the president is authorized to cancel the bond or agreement, in
relation to the transfer of your interest in the Iron Mountain
tract. As the chance of doing something with the property is
better than the stock, I presume you can have no objection to
making the transfer; the company is about to be dissolved, and
the stock is worth nothing," &c.
It does not appear that this communication was ever aiswered by Thomas. He never paid, or offered to pay, the
money due to Mrs. Bullett, or to Allen and Sloan, her assignees. He did not transfer to the company the 714 shares of
stock, nor demand the cancellation of Mrs. Bullet's title-bond,
that he had assigned to the company. Nor does it appear that
he did any act to fulfil his contract with Mrs. Bullett.
In January, 1842, it appears the company failed, and all its
property was sold on execution. In the amended bill, it is
averred that, in 1842, the Missouri Iron Company was dissolved, being insolvent. C. C. Zeigler became the purchaser, bt
sheriff's sale, of all the Iron Mountain tract, for which he
received the sheriff's deed, dated 6th July, 1841; and, on the
6th of January, 1842, the Missouri Iron Company sold the tract
to Zeigler, and executed a deed to him.
A decree had been rendered in the circuit court of St. Francois
county, at the suit of Allen and Sloan, assignees of Mrs. Bullett, against Thomas and J. L. Van Doren, for the sum of

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

343

Boone v. The Missouri Iron Company.

$11,475, which was the consideration for the purchase of the
undivided seventh part of the Iron Mountain tract, which was
declared to be an equitable lien on the interest pyrchased; and,
under the decree of May 8, 1843, the property was sold to
Zeigler, and both Thomas and Van Doren were barred and precluded, by the decree, from enforcing any rights against the
same. Pending that suit, Zeigler purchased the interest of
Allen and Sloan in the title-bond of Mrs. Bullett to Thomas,
and the notes of Thomas, given to Mrs. Bullett, for $6,500.
It appears that, on the 24th of January, 1843, the- American
Iron Company was incorporated, and that Zeigler sold the Iron
Mountain tract to the company.
There is no evidence showing a connection between the Iron
Mountain Company first formed, and the present American
Iron Company, except that the latter company is in possession
of the same property, claiming it by sheriff's sale and deeds of
conveyance under a decree, and from parties who were corporators of the first company, and who represented the company.
It would be difficult to find any case where the objections to
the specific execution of a contract are more insuperable than
in this case. In the first place, the consideration for which the
property was purchased has not been paid; and the statute of
limitations would have barred a recovery on the notes given, if
suit had been brought on them at the time this bill was filed.
It is true the purchaser from Thomas, Vanl Doren, agreed to
pay these notes; but, not having done so, the assignment affords
no excuse for the negligence of Thomas in his lifetime. And
there is no principle in equity better settled, than that he who
asks a specific execution of his contract must show a performance on his part, or that he has offered to perform. Neither of
these has been done in this case.
In addition to this, it appears that the property claimed by
the representatives of Thomas, which he never paid for, was
sold in 1841, under a judgment obtained by Martin v..Van
Doren, Pease, and- Co., the corporators named in the Missouri
Iron Company, by the.sheriff, and that C. C. Zciglei became the
purchaser; and after this, the 6th of January, 1S42, the Missouri
Iron Company sold the Iron Moultain tract to Zeigler, and
executed to him a deed. In the same year the company was
dissolved, being insolvent.
It also appears that a decree was rendered for the purchasemoney, in 1843, which the court held was an equitable lien
upon the land, and the land was decreed to be sold for the
payment of the consideration-money; and one seventh of the
whole tract, the amount purchased by Thomas, was, on the 8th
of May, 1843, sold. This proceeding was had, on the ground
that Thomas had abandoned his claim to the land.

SUPREME

$44

COURT.

Burchell v. Marsh et al.

By various efforts and contrivances, the stock of the first
company was advanced to $5,000,000, but, as might be expected,
after such an inflation, the stock proved to be worth nothing,
and the owners became insolvent.
Under the American Iron Company, which succeeded the
first company, extensive works have been established, and a
prosperous business in mining is carried on.
On a full consideration of this complicated case, there seems
to be no ground of equity on which relief can be given to the
complainants. On the contrary, their equity appears to have
been extinguished by negligence, in not paying the consideration, by the sale of the property by the sheriff, also under a
decree of a court having jurisdiction of the case, and also by a
conveyance of the Missouri Iron Company. A minute statement of the facts would be tedious, and cannot be necessary, as
the case is free from doubts by the outline above given.
The decree of the circuit court, which dismissed the complainant's bill, is affirmed.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the ciruit court of the United States for the district of
Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court that the decree of the said circuit court in this caue be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

PETER

J. BURCHELL, APPELLANT, V. STEVART C. MARSH,
ALEXANDER FREAR, AND WILLIAM M. ARBUCKLE.'

If an award is within the submission, and contains the honest decision of the arbitrators, after a full and fair hearing of the parties, a court of equity will not set it
aside for error, either in law or fact.
In this case, one of the parties sued the other for debt, who, in his turn, claimed
damages for the manner in which he was sued. The submission was broad enough
to cover all these demands on either side.
One of the claims made by the party who was sued, was for damages for the violence
of the agent of the creditors; and the referees heard evidence upon this subject.
Even if this had been beyond the submIssion, there was nothing in the record to
show that the arbitrators made any allowance for this violence and slanderous
language.
The charges of fraud and corruption made in the bill are denied in the answer, and
the award is not so outrageous as of itself to constitute conclusive evidence of fraud
or corruption. Error of judgment in the arbitratots is not a sufficient ground for
setting aside an award.
SMr. Chief Justice TA.NY and Mr. Justice WAx-r,

did not sit in this cause.

