424

SUPREM E COURT.
Herndon v. Ridgway et al.

EDWARD HERNDON, APPELLANT, v. JAMES C. RIDGWAY,
RIDGWAY, WILLIAm H. GASQUE, AND HENRY DAVIS.

Eni

Where a bill was filed in the district court of-the United States for the northern
district of 'Mississippi, against four defendants, who all resided in Alabama, two of
whom aipeared for the purpose of moving to dismiss the bill, and the other two

declined to appear altogether, nor was process served upon them, the court had no
alternative but to dismiss the bill. The two absentees were essential parties.
Jurisdictioni over parties is acquired only by a service of process, or their voluntary
appearance. If an essential portion of the defendants resided in another State, so
that process could not be served upon them, and they would not voluntarily appear,
the bill must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
THIS was an appeal from the district court of the United
States, for the northern district of Mississippi.
It was a bill filed by Herndon, under the circumstances stated
in the opinion of the court, and which was dismissed by the
court below.
Tire process against Davis was served upon Messrs. Dowd
and Murphy, his attorneys. A motion was made to dismiss
the bill foi three reasons, the second of which was:"Because Henry Davis is not a citizen of.the northern distrie
of Tlississippi, and Dowd and Murphy are not his attorneys of
redord in any of the courts of the United States, and have not
instituted proceedings or suit therein against said Herndon, but
are attorneys of record of said Davis, in the circuit court of
MNonroe county, Mississippi, a state court, as per affidavit on
file." The affidavit was as follows: "In ppen court personally appeared Win. F. Dowd, one of
the firm of Dowd and MHurphy, who made oath that Dowd and
Murphy are not the attorneys of record of Henry Davis, and
have not been, as such, to institute any suit in this court, or any
one of the federal courts of the United States, against Edward
Herndon, for the recovery of the property mentioned in the bill
filed in this cause; but they, said Dowd and Murphy, are the
attorneys of record of Henry Davis to prosecute a suit against
said Herndon, in a State court, to wit: the circuit court of
Monroe county, in the State of Mississippi.
" W. F. DOWD."

The district court dismissed the bill, and Herndon appealed
to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Adams, for the appellant, who
contended that service upon the attorneys was sufficienti and by
ilr. Phillips, for the appellees, who contended that it was not,
and referred to 3 Bro. C. C. 521; 2 Cox. 389.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

425

-Herndon v. Ridgway et al.

Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff complains that, in 1849, he purchased from
James C. Ridgway a number of slaves, for whom he gave his
bond to the vendor; that this was transferred to E. T. Ridgway
for the use of Win. H. Gasque, and that a suit is pending in the
district court of the United States*for that district, to collect the
sum due , that the slaves are in the possession of Win. P. Givan,
to whom he sold them with a warranty of the title. That one
Davis claims the slaves under a title paramount to that derive"
from Ridgway, and had brought a suit for them in the stat
court, which had proved ineffective, and now threatens to renew
it. The object of the bill is to require the two Ridgways and
Gasque, on the onc part, and Davis, on the other, to interplead
in the district court of the United States, to settle their right to
the slaves, so that he may pay the purchase-money to the
proper person. He alleges that the vendor, Ridgway, is insol-

vent
The four defendants are citizens of Alabama. Notice of the
motion for injunction wag served on the attorneys for the plaintiff, in the suit in the district court, and upon the attorneys who
prosecuted the suit against Givan for Davis in the state, court
The attorneys for Davis disclaim any connection with him in
this controvergy, and move to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction. Gasque appears and demurs to the bill for the same
cause, and no notice or appearance exists in, the record for the
vendor, Ridgway. The district court retained the bill twelve
months, and then dismissed it on these motions.
The jurisdiction of the district court over parties is acquired
only by a service of process, or their voluntary appearance. It
has no authority to issue process to another State. In the present case, the absent defendants decline to appear, and process
cannot be served, so that the court is without any jurisdiction over the essential parties to the bill. Therie was no course
open to it, except to dismiss it for the'want of jurisdiction, upon
the motions submitted for that object. Toland v. Sprague, 12
Pet. 300.
There-is no error in the record, and the decree is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States for the northern
district of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this 'court that the decree of the said district court in this
cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs:.
860

