DECEMBER TERM1, 1854.

97

United States v. Nine Cases of Silk Hats.
THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. NINE OASES, .F
SILK HATS. PAUL TRicoN, CI'AIMANT.
The decision in.the preceding case again affirmed.

Tuis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the eastern, district of Louisiana.
It was similar, in its circumstances, to the case of the United
States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods, and argued by lr.
Gushig, attorney-general, for the United States, at the same
time.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a libel of information, filed in the district court of
the United States v. Nine Cases of Silk Hats, for condemnation and forfeiture, on the allegation that the entry of the
goods at the custom-house, was made upon an invoice, in which
they were invoiced at a less sum than the actual cost at the
place of exportation, -with a design to evade the duties.
After hearing the-evidence, the court ingtructed the jury that
the 66th section of the act of 1799, which imp3osed a forf6iture
of the goods in question, had been repealed, and was not in
force at the time of the entry at the customs; and gave judgment for the claimant. On a writ of error to the circuit c6urtf
this judgment was affirmed.
*For the reasons given in the case of the United States v.
Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods, the judgment inust be reversed, and the record remitted to the court below for further
proceedings, in conformity to the opinion of this court.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
redord from the circuit court of the United. States for the
eastern district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court
for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the
opinion of this court.
VOL.

XVII.

