204

SUPREM1E

COURT.

The United States v. Nickerson.

Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and the
same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be and
the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with

directions to award a venirefacias de novo.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL, Mr. Justice NELSON, and Mr.
Justice CURTIS dissented.

THE

UNITED

STATES,

PLAINTIFF,
JUNIoR.

v. LINDSEY

NiCICERSON,

The act of congress passed on the 29th July, 1813, (3 Stats. at Large, 49,) enacts
,that the oan er of every fishing vessel shall, previous to receiving the allowance
mentioned in the act, produce to the collector the original agreement which may
have been made with the fishermen, and also a certified copy of the days of sailing
and returning, to the truth of which he shall swear before the collector.
These latter words include the first branch, as well as the second branch of the sentence; so that the owner must not only swear to the truth of the certificate, but
also to the verity of the agreement with the fishermen.
A person was indicted, in the district court of Massachusetts, for perjury, in swearing
falsely to the agreement with the fishermen, and in swearing falsely that three
fourths of the crew were citizens of the United States. As the district judge held
that the act of congress only required the owner to swear to the certificate of sailing, and not to the agreement with the fishermen, the person was acquitted.
Afterwards, when indicted in the circuit court, this person pleaded his former acquittal. This was a good plea; because the evidence necessary to sustain the indictment, with respect to the fishermen's agreement, might have been given by the
United S'ates in the first trial.
With respect to the oath that three fourths of the crew were citizens of the United
States, the act of 1813 did not require that oath ; but then the indictment did not
purport to bring the offence under that act, but referred to the statutes of the United
States generally.

Tnls case came up from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Massachusetts, upon a certificate of
division in opinion between the judges thereof.
In March, 1854, Nickerson was indicted for perjury, by the
grand-jury of the district court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts, which indictment was framed under the
act of July 29, 1813, ch. 3.5, §§ 7, 9; (3 Stats. at Large, 49;)
revi ,ed February 9, 1816, ch. 14, (3 Stats. at Large, 254.)
By section 7: " The owner of every fishing vessel of twenty

tons and, upwards, his agent or lawful representative, shall,
previous to receiving the allowance made by this act, produce
to the collector, who is authorized to pay the same, the original
agreement 'or agreements which may have been made with the

DECEMBER TERM? 1854.

205

The United States v. Nickerson.

fishermen employed on board such vessel, as is hereinbefore
required, and alsoa certificate, to be by him subscribed, therein
mentioning the particular days on which such vessel sailed and
returned on the several voyages or fares she may havte made in
the preceding fishing season, to the truth of which he shall swear
or affirm before the collector aforesaid."
Section 9 then provides: That "any person who shall make
any false declaration, in any oath or afrmatibn required by
this act, being duly convicted thereof, shall be deemed guilty
of wilful and corrupt perjury, and shall be punished accordingly."_
At the trial on the indictment, before the district court, the
offence set forth was, making a false declaration, under oath,
before the collector, that the paper produced and sworn to by
the defendant was the original agreement
The judge of the district court, who tried the case, held that
this oath to the original agreement with the fishermen was not
required by the act of July 29, 1813, § 7, (3 Stats. at Large,
52.) That the relative which, in that section, applied to and
was satisfied by the oath to the certificate of the particular days
on which such vessel sailed and returned, &c.; and, consequently, no false declaration, in any oath required by that act,
was setforth in the indictment; the only oaths required by thf
act of 1813 being to the days of sailing and returning, the time
employed at sea, and the size of the boat or vessel
The United States attorney then offered to prove that this
was a false swearing, touching the expenditure of public money,
under the act of March 1, 1823, § 3, (3 Stats. at Large, 770.)
United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 238.
But the judge held the evidence inadmissible, and the dtnfend.
ant was acquitted.
In May, 1854, Nickerson was again indicted by the grandjurors of the circuit court for the crime of pejury, in swearing
that the fishermen's agreement-producedwas the original agreement, when, in fact, -itwas not; and also in swearing that three
fourths of the crew employed were citizens of tb e United States,
or persons not subject to any foreign prince or state, whereas
five out of nine persons employed were subjects of Victoria,
queen of Great Britain and Ireland.
Whereupon Nickerson put in a plea setting forth the former
in lictment and acquittal.
The district attorney of the United States daemurred to the
plea, and the j adges differed in opinion whether the defendanfs
special plea aforesaid be good, in bar, to this indictnrznt, and
the question was certified to this court.
VOL. XVII.

18

206

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Nickerson.

It was argued by Mr. Gushing, (attomey-general,) for the
United States, and by Mr. Lothrop, for the defendant.
Mr. Gushing made the following points :1. The false swearing alleged in the two indictments, is not
one and the same perjury, at common law; but there are two
distinct statute offences: one for making V.false declaration in
a certain prescribed form of an oath, required under the act of
1813; and the other for falsely swearing in order to effect a
specific purpose, under an oath-that may be required, but is not
specified in the act of 1823.
2. The defendant could not have been tried under the first
indictment, for the crime created by the act of 1823; because,
to constitute the statute offence with which he was charged in
the first indictment, under the act of 1813, there must be a false
declaration made in an oath required by that statute. If the
alleged false oath was not required by that act, no offence was
set forth in the indictment.
3. So, also, to constitute the statute offence, under the act of
1823, touching the expenditure of public money, there must be
a false swearing in an oath legally administered, and required
or authorized by law. United States v. Bailey, supra.
4. The first indictment charged no false swearing, except in
an oath required by the act of 1813. The second indictment,
under the act of 1823, does set forth an oath necessary and
required, impliedly by law, and expressly by the secretary of the
treasury and by the collector, before the public money can be
expended to pay the fishing bounty to the owner or agent of a
fishing vessel.
5. The indictment, to which the plea of former acquittal is
made, further sets forth a false swearing in the oath required
by the collector, under the authority of the rules and regulations of the'treasury department, in ordhr to satisfy himself that
two thirds of the crew of the fishing vessel were citizens of the
United States.
This the act of March 1, 1817, makes a prerequisite to obtaining the fishing bounty, that the officers, ande at least three
fourths of the crew, shall be proved, to the satisfaction of the
collector, to be citizens of the United States. 3 Stats. at Large,

3.51, § 3.

This act does not prescribe an oath, but it constitutes the
collector the judge of that fact, and prohibits the expenditure
of the public money, by payment of the bounty, unless the collector is satisfied on that point; and hence such rules and
modes of proof may be prescribed, including an oath, which are
requisite and proper to establish that fact.

DECEMBER TERr

1854.

207

The United States v. Nickerson.

7. If the district judge erred in deciding that the oath set out
in the first indictment was not required by the act of 1813, the
defendant cannot avail himself of that error; because it was a
ruling in his favoi, and against the United States, which could
not except, but were bound by it in that cause.
8. If the district judge was right in that ruling, the defendant, who thereupon objected to the admission of evidence, to
show another offence of falsely swearing under the act of 1823,
cannot avail himself of the plea of former acquittal; because
he -was acquitted of the offence only set forth in the first indictment and not of the offence set forth in the second indictment,
which is another and different offence.
9. The two statute crimes are different and distinct, and
require diffeient averments; because the offence created under
the act of 1813 is declared to be wilful and corrupt perjury,
whereas the offence created by the act of 1823 is the crime of
swearing falsely, touching the expenditure 6f public money,
&c.; and the form, nature, or import of the oath is not prescribed, as it is in the act of 1813; nor is it declared or deemed
to be wilful and corrupt perjury, by the act of 1823; but upon
conviction of swearing falsely, touching the expenditure oqf
public money, the party so convicted "shall suffer as for wilful
and corrupt perjury ;" and this prescribes the punishment, and
does not define the offence to be perjury, as defined at common
law.
10. The courts of the United States, having no common-law
jurisdiction u crimes, except statute offences only, must be
strictly governed by-the statute creating the offence, and cannot
go beyond the precise statute offence, which is specifically and
formally set forth in the indictment
11. It is desirable that, in the decision of this cause, the court
should pass upon the questions incidentally raised, touching the
legality of the oaths required by the treasury department and
by collectors, as prerequisites to obtaining, by owners and agents,
the bounty allowed to fishing vessels.
Authorities incidental may be referred to in The Boft Swallow, Ware's R. 21; The Harriet, 1b. 343; S. C. 1 Story's R.
251.
Mr. Lothrop, for the defendant, made the following points: Fir.st Point. The evidence -which is competent and essential
to support the present indictment might have been offered in
proof, and in support of the former indictment. Regina v. Bird,
Parke, Baron, 6 Br. Cr. Cas. 201 ; Act of 30th April, 1790, ch. 9,
§ 19, (1 Stats. at Large, 117;) 1 Chitty's Crim. L. 276, 281;
1 Starkie's Crim. Plead. 301; Act of Congress July 29, 1813.

SUPREME COURT.
The United *States v. Nickerson.

oh. 35, (3 Stats. at Large, 49;) Act of Congress March 1, 1817,
ch. 31, § 3, (3 Stats. at Large, 351 ;) Act of Congress March 1,
1823, ch. 37, § 3, (3 Stats. at Large, 771;) Act of Congress
March 3, 1825, ch. 65, § 13, (4 Stats. at Large, 118;) United
States v. Nickerson, Law Reporter for September, 1854.
Second Point. The present indictment contains sundry allegations which do not constitute, if true, the crime of perjury.
Coke, 3d Inst. 165; United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 238, Opinion
of Mr. Justice McLean ; United States v. Taylor, Law Reporter
for September, 1854, p. 271 ; 1 Chitty's Cr. L. 295, 396.

Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us upon a certificate of division of
opinion by the judges of the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Massachusetts.
At the March term, 1854, of the district court of the United
States for the district of Massachusetts, Nickerson was indicted
for the crime of perjury. The indictment charged, that in order
to obtain the allowance of bounty money, on account of the
employment of a vessel in the cod fishery, of which vessel he
was the agent, he made oath before the collector of the district
of Barnstable, where the vessel was enrolled and licensed, that
a certain paper, produced by him to the collector, was the original agreement made with the fishermen employed on board
the vessel during the fishing season then last past; that three
fourths of the crew so employed were citizens of the United
States, or not subjects of any foreign prince or state; and that
these statements were false, and known to the defendant to be
so when he made the oath.
Upon -this indictment Nickerson was tried and acquitted.
At the May term, 1854, of the circuit court for the district of
Massachusetts, Nickerson was again indicted, and to this last
indictment pleaded specially his former acquittal, and the plea
was demurred to.
The question raised by this demurrer, and upon which the
opinions -ofthe judges were opposed, is, whether the same evidence, which is competent and essential to support the indictment in the circuit court, might have been admitted in support
of the former indictment in the district court.
The demurrer admits that the defendant is the same person
charged by the former indictment, and that the oath alleged in
the former indictment to have been taken, is the same oath
alleged in this indictment. It appears from a comparison of
the two indictments that the same occasion of taking the oath
is alleged in both; that occasion- being to obtain an allowance
of money from the United States, as bounty, on account of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

209

The United States v. Nickerson.

employment of a vessel*called The Silver Spring, in the cod
fishery, during the season then last past.
Each indictment contains, substantially, the same allegation
respecting the authority of the collector to administer the oath;
that allegation being that the collector had competent power
and authority to administer the same. Under the 19th section
of the crimes act of April 30, 1790, 1 Stat. at Large, 116, this
avermeni would let in, any legal evidence of the lawful power
of the collector to administer the oath.
The false swearing alleged in each indictment is the same,
and the only question is, whether the indictment in the district
court was so drawn as to preclude the United States from offering evidence to prove that the defendant knowingly and wilfully
swore falsely that the paper produced was the original agreement, and that three fourths of the crew were citizens.
The argument is, that the former indictment, by its terms,
limited the government to proof of false swearing in an oath required to be taken by the act of July 29, 1813, 3 Stats. at Large,
49; that this act does not require either the verity of the agreement with the crew, or the citizenship of three fourths of the
crew, to be sworir to; and cohsequently, that neither of the
perjuries charged could be proved under the former indictmentThe 7th section of the act of 1813 is as follows: " That
the owner or owners of every fishing vessel of twenty tons and
upwards, his or their agent or lawful representative, shall, previous to receiving te allowance mtde by this act, produce to
the collector, who is authorized to pay the same, the original
agreement or agreements which may have been made with the
fishermen employed on board such vessel, as is hereinbefore
required, and also a certificate to be by him or'them subscribed,
thereo.1 mentioning the partcular days on which such vessel
sailed and returned on the several voyages or fares she may
have made in the preceding fishing season, to the truth of which
he or they shall swear or affim before the collector aforesaid."
It is argued that this requires an oath to the truth of the certificate only, and not to the verity of the agreement.
This depends upon the meaning of the relative pronoun
"which." Does it refer to and include -both papers to be produced to the collector, or only one of them? It may refer only
to the. one last mentioned, or to both. "Grammatically it is
capable of either construction.
Considering the nature of the act, the objects which congress
had in view, and the rnischiefs to be guarded against, we are of
opinion that it was intended to require an oath to the verity of
both papers.
This section of the law is not penal; it is directory merely.
18*

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Nickerson.

It requires certain acts to be done in order to obtain an allowance of public money. The nature of the act, therefore, does
not require a strict interpretation, rigidly confined to what is so
clearly expressed as to admit of no doubt It calls for such an
interpretation as will guard the public treasury from fraud, so
far as the language employed by congress, when fairly construed,
is capable of doing so.
The inducement to the payment of these bounties was, the
public policy of training a body of native seamen, by an industrious pursuit of the cod fishery during a fixed portion of the
year. To accomplish this, it was deemed important that the
seamen should participate directly in the profits of the voyage,
in the manner pointed out by the act of June 19, 1813, 3 Stats.
at Large, 2. And accordingly, the 8th sectiofi of the act in
question provides that no vessel shall be entitled to bounty,
unless an agreement should be made with the fishermen in conformity with that act. The production of the agreement was
therefore the production of a paper, as essential to the claim as
the certificate of the times of the departure and return of the
vessel; and the verity of the agreement is as essential to the
justice and legality of the claim, and to the accomplishment of
the ends designed by congress, as the verity of the certificate.
It is apparent, also, that the former, as well as the latter, may
be false, and that the collector has no better means of knowledge of the truth or falsehood of the paper purporting to be the
agreement, than he has of the truth or falsehood of the certificate. The mischiefs to be guarded against were therefore the
same.
The case, therefore, is one where the law requires two documents to be produced to a public officer,.to constitute a title to
an allowance of public money. The verity of both is essential
to the justice and legality of the claim. The officer has no
means of testing the verity of either, except what is given by
this law. Congress has considered it proper that an oath should
be taken by the applicant The question is, whether this security of an oath was intended to be confined to one of the
documents. The language employed is capable of such a construction, but it is also capable of meaning that the security of
an oath was to extend to both. In our judgment, the latter is
to be deemed to have been intended by congress; and we therefore hold that so much of the first indictment as charged that an
oath as to the agreement was required by the act of 1813, was
correct in point of law. But this does not dispose of the whole
question; because there can be no pretence that the act of 1813
required an oath to the fact that three fourths of the crew were
citizens. In point of fact, there was no requirement on the sub-

DECEMttBER TERM, 1854.,

211

The :United States v. Nickers6n.

ject of the citizenship of the crew when the act of 1813 was
passed, nor until the act of March 1, 1817, (3 Stats. at Largo-,
351 ;) and the argument on the part of the United States- is,
that as the former indictment was limited to an oath required
'to be taken by the act of 1813, the defendant could not be tried
thereon for false swearing as to the citizenship of the crew.
But we are of opinion that the former indictment was not thus
limited. The particular allegation supposed to hav&that effect,
is as follows: "Which said oath so taken by the said Nickerson, jr., was
required to be taken by the owner or agent of said fishing vessel,
under and by virtue of an act of congress of the United States
of America, approved July 29, 1813, and reenacted February
9, 1816, and in a matter and proceeding then and there required
by law, in order to obtain the allowance aforesaid for said fishing
vessel, it being then and there material and required by the act
aforesaid,. and by force of the statutes of the said United States
therein provided, in order to obtain said allowance of money,
that the owner of said fishing vessel, or his agent or representative, previous to receiving such allowance, should swear as aforesaid to the truth of the aforesaid declarations."
The pleader here not only refers to the act of 1813; but also
avers thatthe oath was taken, "1and in a matter and proceeding
then and there required by law, in order to obtain the allowance
aforesaid for said fishing. vessel." It ii true, the-whole allegalion, if it is correctly copied in the record, is. somewhat confused,
but, according to any construction which we have been able to
put upon it, it does not confine the requirement of the oath to
the act of 1813 only.
It was not necessary to aver in the indictment what act or
-acts cf congress required thQ oath to be taken. The averment
that it was taken by the owner or agent to obtain an allowance
of bounty, and the description of the oath which was taken,and of its occasion, were the only matters of fact necessary to
be alleged to show the materiality of the oath, and that it was
an oath required bylaw. The court was bound to take judicial
ndtice of the requirements of all acts of congress respecting it.
It was competent for the government, under these averments
of facts, to rely on any act of congress which required the oath
to be taken, without referring to it.
This was not a question respecting the authority of the collector to administer the oath. That, as has- already been observed, was correctly averred in both indictments, pursuant to
the act of 1790. And under that general averment of competent
authority, any laws and any fact constituting that authority
might have been shown. The question here was, whether such

SUPREME

COURT.

Henshaw v. Miller.

an oath as is described in the indictment, being taken before a
collector who had competent authority to administer it, for the
purpose of obtaining an allowance of bounty money, was an
oath which, if wilfully false, would subject the defendant to be
punished as for perjury. And we do not think this question
was so narrowed, by the passage above extracted from the
former indictment, that evidence of an oath required or authofized by any other act besides that of 1813 could not be giveunder that indictment; and we order it to be certified accordingly.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Massachusefis, and on the point or question on which the judges
of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and which
was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of
congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof it is the opinion of this
court that the special plea pleaded by the defendant is a good
plea in bar to the indictment; whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that it be so certified to the
said circuit court.

-JOHN HENSHAW, PLAINTIFF, V. JOHN R.

MILLER, EXECUTOR OF

CHARLES E. MILLER, DECEASED.
Where an action on the case was brought in Virginia, against a person to recover
damages for fraudulently recommending a third party as worthy of credit, whereby
loss was incurred; and after issue joined upon the plea of not guilty, the defendant
died, the action did not survive against the executor, but abated.
The Virginia laws and cases examined.

THis case came up from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Virginia, on a certificate of division
in opinion between the judges thereof.
Henshaw was a citizen of Massachusetts, and brought an
action on the case against Charles E. Miller, in his lifetime, for
fraudulently recommending one Robinson as worthy of credit,
in consequence of which the plaintiff had incurred considerable
loss. After issue joined upon the plea of not guilty, Miller died,
and on motion of the plaintiff a scirefacias was issued for the
purpose of reviving the suit against John R. Miller, his executor.
Upon the return of the scire facias, the executor moved to
quash it, when the judges were divided in opinion whether the

