DECEMBER TERM,
Raymond v.

1854.

Tyson.

And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said
complainan ,do recover his costs in this cause in this court, of
and from the said defendant.
It is therefore further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this
court, that this cause be and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said circuit court, with instructions to cause an appropriate deed
of release and quitclaim to be prepared and executed by the
said defendant, or his heirs at law or devisees, or other legal
representatives of their rights, as aforesaid, and also that the said
court issue an injunction to them commanding their agents, and
attorneys, aiders and abettors, to refrain perpetually, from any
molestation or disturbance of the right and possession of the said
complainant, under any title of the said Thomas D. OwinP, and
that the said circuit court do execute and carry into effect all
the provisions of the aforesaid decree of this court.

ISRAEL W. RAYMOND, OWNER AND CLAIMANT OF THE CARGO OF
THE SHIP ORPHAN, CONSISTING OF 844 TONS OF COAL, APPELLANT, V WILLIA?,t TysoN, LIBELLANT.
A charter-party is an informal instrument, often having inaccurate clauses, which
ought to have a liberal construction-, in furtherance of the real intention of the
parties and usage of trade.
Cases cited to illustrate and explain this rule.
Though the owner of a ship, of which th h
re
the lessee, but freighter
only, has a lieu upon th cargo for freight, properly so called, and also for a sum
agreed to be paid for the use and hire of the ship, his lien may be considered as
having
been waived,
without express
words
to that
if thereare
in
the charter-party
inconsistent
with the
exercise
of effect,
the lien,
or when itstipniations
can fairly be
inferred that the ownermeant to trust to the personal responsibility of the charterer.
The American
and chartered
English cases
this subject
examined.
Whre
a ship was
for aupon
voyage
from Lonton
direct, or fUm thence to
Cardiff,
in
"Wales,
(if
required,)
to
load
port
or ports might
on the elect,
Pacitie, where she
was to be cmployed between such portsfor
as athe
charterers
thence to be
returned back, either to New York or Great Britain, their option;
the time
lt for
her employment being to the full term of fifteen months, with a privilege to the
charterers
extendpayable
it to twenty-four
mouths;,
the charterers p.aying, two thousan"d
dolars pertomonth,
i New York
semi-annuall;
the circumstances of the
case indicate that the owner meant toi waive his lieu up'on the cargo for freight, and
trust to the personal responsibility of
charterer.
te
The
shipresponsible
ha :ing arrived
at S-an
:Francisco,
with
a cargo of coal, a libel filed to hold th~e
cargo
for the
freight,
ought to
have
been dismissed.

THISa as an appeal from the disrict court of the United
States for the northern district of California. The libel was
filed in the district court, held by Mr. Ogden Hoffman, J., who
decreed that the libellant: Tyson, had a lien upon the cargo of
coal, for the sum of telve ithOUsoan dollars. The libellant was
5*

b4:

SUPREME
Raymond v.

COURT.
Tyson.

part owner, and agent, and ship's husband, of the ship Orphan,
and resided in New York. The claimant appealed to the circuit
court, which was also held by M. Ogden Hoffman, Jr., where
The claimant
the decree of the district court was affirmed.
then appealed to -this court.
The nature of the case is fully stated in the opinion of the
court.
It was argued by Mr. Lord, for the appellant, and MJr. Ottthn, for the appellee.
The points made by the respective counsel were the following: -

Mr. Lord, for appellant.
The appellant and claimant conceives the decree to be erroneous, and that it should be reversed, on the following grounds:
1. That by the general character of the chart r, the ship was
hired to J. Howard and Son, to be employed in voyages, to
and. fko, in the Pacific Ocean. That the deliveries of cargoes
there, were to be at ports there; while the payments of the
monthly charter money were to be made in New York. And it
could not be contemplated, that the deliveries of cargoes should
be delayed to wait intelligence from the Atlantic ports; whether
the payment of the monthly charter, at the end of each half
year, had been made at the day it was due, or afterwards.
2. That the coasting voyages, from port to port in the Pacific,
which might be seeking voyages, could not be expected to be
carried on, if the cargoes were to be subjected to the lien of six
months' charter money, without the possibility of knowing, in
the Pacific ports, whether that freight had not been paid at New
York.
3. A lien or detention of cargo, under such uncertainty of
facts, to transpire at a distant place, would be dangerous both to
The ship-owner and
ship-owner and charterer and freighter.
master might be exposed to heavy damages for withholding the
property, when the charter money may have been paid at New
York without his knowledge. The owners of cargoes, and especially their consignees, could not -know whether they were entitled to them or not.
4. The provision as to payment of freight, up to the time of
news of the loss of the ship, rendered the amount of freight
payable at New York always uncertin, at the day it was re-

served, or at any time, until news at New York of the ship
being in safety at the end of each six months.
5. No express terms of hypothecating the cargoes, or subjecting them to hen, are found in the charter-party; the omission

DECEMBER

TER,

1854.

Raymond v. Tyson.

of which usual provision in charters of American ships, confirms
the inference from the general character of the instrument, that
it was made on the credit of the charterers, without the exaction
of any lien. The Volunteer, 1 Smnn. R. 551; 3 Kent Com. *220.
6. The charter-party binding the ship-6wner to deliver the
cargoes, without any reference to payment of charter money,
supports the same construction. P. 6.
7. The reservation of payment, in such mode and under such
circumstances as are above referred to, is inconsistent with the
implication of any lien; and the absence of any express creation
this case. 2 Kents Corn.
of any lien, excludes its existence iln
*635, *636,639; Chase v. Westmore, 5 M_.and Seiw. 180; Crawshay v. Homfray, 4 Barn. and Ald. 50; Pickmaff v. Woods. 6
Pick. R. 248; Alsager v. St. Catharine Dock Co. 14 Mees. and
W. 799; Belcher v. Capper, 4 Man. and Gr. 502.
8. The sentence of the court below should be reversed, and
a decree directed for the damages of the claimants, to be ascertained by a proper reference.
MAIr. Cutting, for the appellee, made the following points: 1. Under the terms of the charter-party, the libellant conrinued to be owner, and in possession
parties. of the ship, during the voyages contemplated by the
He was to employ the master, victual and man her, and keep
her in repair, during the whole term, at his own expense. He
agreed to freight the whole ship, or sufficient room for the cargo
specified, expressly reserving the deck, cabin, and necessary room
for the crew; the charterers contracted for the privilege of putting in coal to ballast the ship from London to Card'if,in case
they desired so to do. The owner stipulated to receive and
deliver such merchandise as the charterers should provide.
There are no words of demise, or any clear letting of the ship;
and, taking all the stipulations together, the result is, that thle
contract is a mere covenant for the transportation of merchandise, and the performance of the service stipulated for. Possession of the ship contihued in the owner, and he was to manage.
control, and navigate her. The master was his agent, and not
the agent of the charterer.. The libellant remained subject to
all the responsibilities and obligations of ownership, and was
answerable to the charterers for the acts and conduct of The0
master and mariners. Certain Logs of Mahogany, 2 Sunin. IR.
589; Marcardier v. Chesapeake Ins. Co. 8 Cranch, 49; Palmer
v.. Gracie, 4 Wash. C. C. R. 110-123; S. C. 8 Wheat. 605;
McIntyre v. Bowne, I Johns. R. 229; Clarkson r. Edes, 4 Cow.
R. 470 ; Holmes v. Pavenstedt, 5 Sandf. R. 97 ; .3 Kent's Com.
138 ; 1 Parsons on Cont. 657.

56

SUPREME

COURT.

Raymond v. Tyson.
If, upon the whole instrument, it be doubtful what was intended, the general owner continues such during the term; his
rights can only be displaced by a clear and determinate transfer
of them. Logs of Mahogany, 2 Sumn. R. 589.
2. The ship-owner has a lien upon the cargo, for the freight
of its transportation, unless it has been waived or abandoned
by agreement. Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat 605, 635; S. C. 4
Wash. C. C. R. 110-123; 4 Cow. R. 481, per Savage, C. J.;
The Volunteer, I Sumn. R. 551; Ruggles v. Bucknor, 1 Paine's
R. 358; Drinkwater v. Brig Spartan, 1 Ware's R. 156; Holmes
v. Pavenstadt, 5 Sandf. R. 97; Small v. Moates, 9 Bing. R. 574Gladstanes v. Allen, 12 Com. Bench. R. 202 ; 22 Eng. Law and
Eq. R. 382; Angel on Car. §§ 385, 386; Abbott on Ship. 287,
288-299.
3. The right of lien upon the cargo of the charterers, for charter money due and in arrears, has nit been waived or abandoned
by the respondent.
The stipulation that the charter money should be paid in New
York- semiannually, is not a waiver of, nor is it incompatible
with, the right of lien for freight money due and unpaid. Saville v. Campion, 2 Barn. and Ald. 503; The Volunteer, 1 Sumn.
R. 371; Logs of Mahogany, 2 Sumn. R. 589; Saville v. Campion, 3 Bing. N. C. 17.
It was not even an agreement to give credit for the earnings
of the ship. According to the ordinary length of a voyage from
London or Cardiff to Panama or California, the time for the
payment of the first six months' service, would. have matuted
before the ship had reached her port of delivery. The actual
time was eight months and over. (Page 20.)
The 6harterers agreed to furnish the master, from time to
time, with any funds he might require for the ship's ordinary
expenses, which were to be deducted out of the semiannual
instalments, if advices -thereof were recei- -d. Upon the return
of the vessel to New York or Great Britain, all moneys due at
that time were to be paid forthwith, on demand.
It had no other effect than to fix the periods of payment, and to
suspend the right to enforce a lien upon the cargo, until default
of payment. New v. Swain, 1 Dan. and Lloyd, 193.
The length of the term of employment, which was to be at
lbast fifteen months, with the privilege to the charterers of extending it nine months, and the large amount at risk, preclude
the idea of an agreement to waive or abandon the right of lien,
in the event of default in payment.
Default was made in the payment of the freight money due
at the end of the six months; and the ship-owner was thereupon
at liberty to proceed and enforce his lien. New v. Swain, 1

DECEMBER TERM, 18.54.

57

Raymond-v. Tyson.

Danson &S"Lloyd, Merc. Cases, 193; Dixon v. Yates, 2 Nev.
and Man. R. 177; Saville v. Campion, 2 B. & Al. 503, 513 ;
Abbott on Ship. 289.
There axe no other provisions in the charter-party that operate
as a waiver or release of the right of lien.
The covenant, by the charterers, that they -will provide a full
cargo, strongly implies that the security of a lien upon it was
contemplated and reserved.
The bill of lading delivered by the master, ania accepted by
the charterers, shows that both the parties understood that the
delivery of the cargo was upon the condition of payment of
freight, as per charter-party; if it were unpaid in New York,
delivery could not be compelled by the consignee, without satisfying the amount due. Small v. Moates, 9 Bing: 574. Gladstanes'v. Allen, 12 Com. Bench, 202.
4. A lien for freight is favored in- the law, and ought not
to be displaced without a clear and determinate abandonment
of it.
It is not excluded in the present case by any express or
-absolute terms, or by unavoidable implication, or by any provisions xepugnant to, or inconsistent with, the right to enforce it.
The burden is on the appellant to establish a waiver or
extinguishment of the right.
5. The decree of the court below oughtto be affirmed,with costs.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the district court for the northern district of California.
The suit was brought, by a libel in the admiralty, against 844
tons of coal (of which Raymond was the claimant) on board
the ship Orphan, of which Tyson, the libellant, was a part
owner. Its object was to enforce an alleged lien, on the coal
claimed under a charter-party between Tyson and J. Howard
and Son, of New York, charterers. The charter-party was made
at New York, on the 1st February, 1850, the ship at that time
being on her voyage to London. The whole ship, with the exception of the deck, cabin, and necessary room for the crew, and
stowage of provisions, sails, and cables, was chartered by the
.owner to J. Howard and Son, for a voyage from London direct,
or-from thence to Cardiff, in Wales, (if required,) to load for a
port or ports on the Pacific, where she was to be employed between such ports as the charterers might elect; thence to be
returned back, either to New York or Great Britain, at their
option. The time for her employment was to extend to the full
term of fifteen montbs, with a privilege to the charterers to
'extend it to twenty-four months. The charterers engaged to

58

SUPREME

COURT.

Raymond v. Tyson.
furnish the ship with a full cargo-bills of lading to be signed
for it without prejudice to the charter-and they contracted to
pay to the owner of the ship or his agent, for the use of the
vessel, at the rate of two thousand dollars per month, commencing in London, if she proceeds thence direct to the Pacific,
when ready to load, and notice of the same was given to the
charterers or their agent. But if the vessel shall be ordered to
Cardiff to load, then the charter was to commence from the
time she might be ballasted, and be ready for sea, in London.
In that case the ship is to be allowed ten days from the time she
is ready to sail from London, until her arrival at Cardiff, and
only that time, for which the charterers were to pay, should the
ship be a longer or shorter time in making the passage to Cardiff.
It is agreed" between the owner and the charterers that the
charter should be payable in New York semiannually: the first
payment to be made six months from the commencement of the
same, and so every six months during the continuance of the
charter, before the arrival of the ship and her being delivered
back to' the owner, in New York or Great Britain; or upon
satisfactory proof of total loss of the ship, all moneys in arrears
and due, up to the time of the loss, were to be paid on demand.
Should the vessel be ordered to California, the charterers agree
to pay the expense of victualling and manning her, attendant
upon the California voyage, and the charter money for any
detention capsed by desertion of the crew.
The charterers
agreed also to pay all port charges of the ship incident to her
employment, except victualling, manning, and repairs, and to
advance funds for the ordinary expenses of the ship after she
left Europe, which were to be deducted from the charter payments on vouchers from the captain.
The ship sailed for Cardiff, on the 1st April, 1850, and arrived
there on the 14th April. She there took on board from Branson,
Sands, and Co., the agents of the charterers, a cargo of 844 tons
of coal, the property of the charterers. For this cargo a bill of
lading was signed, May 4, 1850, at Cardiff, expressing that
the ship was bound to Panama, for orders, to be delivered to
order or assigns, he or they paying freight, as per charter-party.
The bill of lading is at follows : Bill of lading.-Shipped
in good order and condition, by
Branson, Sands, and Co., of Liverpool, in and upon the good
ship or vessel called The Orphan, whereof R. C. Williams is
master for this present voyage, and now lying in the port. of
S44 tons Of ."iov's
Merthyr and Cardiff
te.m coal."

Cardiff, and bound for Panama for orders, eight
hundred and forty-four tons of " Nixon's Merthyr and Cardiff steam coal," being marked

and numbered as per margin, and are to be delivered in the like

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Raymond v. Tyson.

good order and condition, at the port, according to orders, (all
and every the dangers and accidents of the seas, and navigation,
of whatsoever nature or kind, excepted,) unto 91order, " or fo
assigns; he or they paying freight for the said goods, as per
chaxter-party, with average accustomed.
The ship proceeded to Panama, with her cargo, and thence,
by orders of the charterers, to San Francisco. She arrived at
San Francisco, Decembe.r 2, 1850, and the cargo was retained
on board by her captain, to preserve an alleged lien upon it for
freight The libellant avers that $12,000 was due for charter
money, on the 1st October, and that it had not been paid by the
charterers; and that they had not furnished funds for the ship's
expenses after she left Europe; and for the money due he claims
a lien upon the coal.
Raymond, the claimant, answers, that the bill of lading of
the coal had been transferred to him at the time of its shipment
by J. Howard and Son, for a valuable consideration paid; and
this is not denied in the case. That he thereby became' owner
of the coal, and has ever since continued to be so, free from any
lien or claim in favor of the owners of the ship, or any other
persons; that he had demanded the coal, but that the master
refused to deliver it. After the libel was issued and the answer
had been put in, the master of the ship petitioned for an order
for the sale of the coal, as a perishable commodity. The order
was granted, the coal was sold, and the proceeds were adjudged
to be liable to a lien for the sum due upon the charter-party, on
the 1st October.
We shall give our judgment upon the foregoing statement,
without considering in detail the general principles governing
contracts of affireightment. But we will state two of them, because they have a decisive bearing upon the charter-party, under
which this controversy has arisen.
First, it must be remembered, that a charter-party is an informal instrument as often as otherwise, having inaccurate
clauses, and that on this account they must have a liberal construction, such as mercantile contracts usually receive, in furtherance of the real intention of the parties and usage of trade. So
Lord Mlansfield said a long time since. Abbott, in his treatise
relative to merchant ships and seamen, Story's edition, 188, gives
the rule of construction very much in the same words: but'perhaps with more precision. "The general rule which our courts
of law have adopted, in the construction of this as well as other
mercantile instruments, is, that the construction should be liberal,
agreeable to the real intention of the parties, and conformable to
the usage of trade in general, and of the particular trade t6
which the contract relates." Chancellor Kent, in Is 47th chapter,

60

SUPREME COURT.
Raymond v. Tyson.

on the contract of Affreightment, cites the rule approvingly.
The late Mr. Justice Thompson, of this court, asserts it in Ruggles v. Bucknor, 1 Paine, 358. Judge Story acted upon it ten
years afterwards, in the case of The Volunteer, 1 Sumn. 551;
and again in another case, 2 Sumn. 589. The first says: " It
was pressed upon me by the defendant's counsel,'that I should
decide this abstract question, and lay down some general rules
as to thi3 lien on the cargo for the freight, when the voyage is
performed under a charter-party. This I do not feel disposed
to do, especially as it would and ought to be considered as a
mere obiter opinion, if not required by the facts of the case.
And, indeed, it is impracticable to lay down any general rules
to meet the great variety of cases that must necessarily arise in
commercial transactions. Each case must depend, in a great
measure, upon its own circumstances. Parties are not bound
to any fixed and precise stipulations, to be embraced in a charterparty." In the case of The Volunteer and cargo, the most difficult question was, whether there was, under the charter-party, a
lien on the homeward cargo for the freight. Judge Story says:
" In general, it.is well known that by the common law there is
a lien on the goods shipped for the freight thereon; whether it
arise under a common bill of lading, or under a charter-party.
But then this lien may be waived by consent; and in cases of
charter-parties, it often becomes a question whether the stipulations are or are not inconsistent with the lien." The other
case mentioned in 2 Sumn. 589, (certain logs of Mahogany v.
Richardson,) wag one which was decided upon the inaccurate
and inconsistent stipulations of a charter-party, by a liberal construction of them, in furtherance of the real intention of the
parties and the usage of trade. In Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat.
605, 634, this court has said: " That the contract of affreightment, like any other contract, is the creature of the will of the
parties. It may be varied to infinity, and easily adapted to the
exigencies of either party or of any trade. It is only where the
express contract is silent, that the implied contract can arise."
These authorities are sufficient, without citing others, to establish
the general rule for the construction of charter-parties.
The next rule for the construction of charter-parties, deduced by
us from an examination of all of the leading cases in the English
and American reports, including those cited in the argument
of the counsel of the appellee, is this: that though the owner of
a ship, of which the charterer is not the lessee, but freighter only,
has a lien upon the cargo for freight, properly so called, and also
for a sum agreed to be paid for the use and hire of the ship, his
lien may be considered as having been waived, without express
words to that effect, if there are stipulations in the charter-party

DECEMBER

TERM, 1854.

61

Raymond v. Tyson.

inconsistent with the exercise of the lien, or when it can fairly
be inferred that the owner meant to trust to the personalresponsibility of the charterer. In Ruggles v. Bucknor, Paine's Reports, 363, Mr. Justice Thompson said: "There can be no doubt
that a ship-owner may, by express stipulations'as to2payment
of freight, incompatible with a claim upon the cargo for the
same, be deemed to have waived his lien, as if he should, by the
charter-party or otherwise, agree to receive his freight at a time
and place having no reference to the delivery of the cargo, or at
variance with such time and place. But,. as by the gefief-al
rules of law, the cargo is liable for the freight, it should'be satis•factorily shown that the claim has been relinquished before the
ship-owner can be required to part with the cargo without payment of the freight." As early as the year 1820, -Chief Justice
Spencer had ruled the same .n the case of Chandler v. Belden,
18 Johns. 157, 162. His language is: 1" The right to retain
the cargo for the freight has grown out of the usage of trade;
and it does not exist, nor can it be enforced, when the parties
have expressly regulated the time and manner of paying the
freight, by stipulations in a charter-party, and especially if the
cargo is deliverable before the arrival of the petit is of. pay.
ment. Such an agreement is an express renunciation of the
right to insist on freight before the cargo is delivered."
Judge Story says, in the case of The Volunteer: "But then this
lien may be waived by consent, and in charter-parties it often
becomes a questioi whether the slipulations are or are not inconsistent with the existence of the lien. For instance, if the
delivery of the goods is by the charter-party to! precede the payment or security of payment of freight, such a stipulation furnishes a clear dispensation with the lien for freight, for it is
repugnant to it, and incompatible with it." Judge Story had
had occasion to consider this point five years before he gave his
opinion in the case of The Volunteer. We find in his note to his
edition of Abbott on Shipping, printed by Hilliard, Gray, Little'
and Willdns, gt Boston, in 1829, page 178, a citation of the case
of Chandler and Belden, 18 Johns. 157, with this commentary:
" That part of the language which seems to deny the right to
retain, where there is an express stipulation of the time and
manner of paying the freight, if itmeans that that fact alone
overturns the lien, -whether the stipulation be or be not inconsistent with such lien, admits of much question, and seems inconsistent with the doctrine of the cases cited in the text, as
well as with that in Chase v. Westmore, 5 M. and Selw. 180, and
Crawshay v. Horfray, 4 Barn. and Ald. 50."
In Lucas v. Nockell, 4 Bing. 729, it was said: "It may
distinctly appear from the charter-party, that the owner has been
VOL. XVII.

6

SUPREME COURT.
Raymond v. Tyson.

content to trust to the personal responsibility of the merchant,
and fixing a specific time of payment, before or after delivery,
has waived his right to a lien. In Lowell v. Simpson, 16 Vesey,
275 ; Chase v. Westmore, 5 M. and Selw. 180 ; and in Crawshay
v. HIomfray, Barn. and Ald. 52, it was ruled, if there be a specific
contract for a particular time and mode of payment, and that
contract is inconsistent with the right to retain, it will of course
defeat a claim to exercise it."
Nothing can be found in the cases cited by the counsel for
the appellee, in conflict with the extracts just given: on the
contrary, most of them admit the principles expressed in those
extracts.
Gracie v. Palmer, in 8 Wheaton, the same case upon appeal
to this court, decided by Mr. Justice Washington, in 4 Wash.
C. C. Reports, affirms what no one will deny: if the ship-owner
retains the possession of the ship, and the charterer is merely
the freighter, that the former has a lien upon the cargo for
freight. Other points were ruled in that case, but they have no
bearing upon this, and especially none upon what shall be considered a waiver of a lien for freight. Clarkson and Edes, in 4
Cowen, is to the same point; but both Chief Justice Savage
and Mr. Justice Woodworth decided that case from the intention of the parties, as that could be inferred from the charterparty.
Small and Moates, in 9 Bing. 574, decided by Cief Justice
Tindal, was a case in which it was expressly agreed that the
ship, during the continuance of the voyage, should remain firmly
and fully vested in the owner, and that he should at all times
during the voyage and service, have a complete lien upon the
lading of the ship. It was ruled that he had a lien upon the
goods of the charterer, and against his indorsee of the bill of
lading. The grdunds upon which the indorsee contended against
the lien need not be stated here, as they have no relation to any
controversy in this case.
Saville v. Campion, much relied upon in 2 Barn. and
Ald. 503, 512, decided by Chief Justice Abbott, does not
interfere in any way with the rules of constru~tion which we
have stated to be applicable to charter-parties. The point ruled
in that case was, that as there were no express words of demise
of the ship itself, in the charter-party, the freighter did not thereby become the owner for the voyage, and that the possession
continued in the owner, and that he had therefore a lien upon
the cargo for freight. But the lien on the goods, for the stipulated hire of the ship, is expressly put upon the ground "that
there was nothing to show that the delivery of the goods was to
precede the payment of that hire, in cash and bills, as provided

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Raymond v. Tyson.

for by the deed. The case of Campion v. Colvin, 3 Bing.
N. C, 17, involved, first, the inquiry whether or not the owner
of the *ship did not retain the possession of her,- and that the
charterer was only freighter. It vas ruled that the owner was
left in possession, the charter-party being the same on which the
court of king's bench decided, in Saville v. Campion. Next,
whether it was the intention of the parties that the ship-owner
meant to insist on the delivery of the bills which were to be
Sven on London before the delivery of the cargo; it was decided
that he did; but that the decision was: given upon the ground
of the special agreement, and not on the general right of lien, is
obvious from the language of the chief justice. "Looking t6
the intent of the parties, it is clear the ship-owner meant to
insist upon the delivery of the bills before the delivery of the
cargo, so that, with respect to the time at which the freight was
payable, there was no difference between that and the preceding
cases." And, lastly, whether or not the assignees of the charterer
stood in a different relation to the owner from that of the
charterer; it was ruled that he did not. The opinion given by
Chief Justice Tindal, in this case, is manifestly notreported with
accuracy as to the statement, and is apt to mislead in reppect
to the second ruling of that learned judge. It appears, then, that
neither the case of Saville v. Campion, nor that of Campion
v. Colvin, 3 Bing. N. C. 17, contains any thing against the
second rule of construction which we have stated. There
was not, in either of the charter-parties of those cases, though
London had been fixed upon for the place of payment, any thing
incompatible 'with a lien upon the cargo, or at a variance with
the time and place which had been agreed upon for its delivery.
Upon the authorities cited, we consider the rule to be, that
though the owner of a ship who retains possession of her has a
lien for freight upon the cargo of the freighter,'the lien may be
adjudged to have been waived without an express agreement, or
words to that effect, if there are stipulations in the charter-party
inconsistent with the exercise of such lien, or when it can be
fairly inferred, from the language of the instrument, that the
owner meant to trust to the personal responsibility of the charterer for the freight or hire of the ship.
The limitation upon such construction and inference, is as
well expressed as it can be, in the language of Judge Story, in
the case of certain Logs of MIahogany, 2 Sumn. 597. It is:
" Let us now proceed to the consideration of the terms of-the
present charter-party, in order to ascertain what is their true
meaning and interpretation. If, upon comparing the various
clauses, we are led to the conclusion that it is doubtful whether
the charterer was intended to have the sole possession and control

64

SUPREME COURT.
Raymond v. Tyson.

of the brig during the vbyage, or to be constituted owner
for the voyage, then the general owner must be deemed such,
for his rights and authorities over the voyage must continue,
unless displaced by some clear and determined transfer of them."
So we now say, if it be only doubtful in the construction of a
charter-party whether the owner has waived his lien upon the
cargo, he must have the benefit of that doubt; his lien being
given by the force of the common law, which -cannot be taken
from- him, "though there is a special contract, unless there is
something in that contract inconsistent with that lien, or unless
it is waived by fair implication." Williams, Justice; Pinney v.
Wells, 10 Connecticut Reports, 104, 115.
We will now turn to the charter-party in this case, and form
our judgment accordingly, as the two rules of construction which
have been stated shall bear upon it. In the first place, it is not
for the carriage of a single cargo or for a voyage, but for a voyage
from London direct, or from Cardiff, in Wales, to load for a port or
ports in the Pacific, where the ship is to be employed between
such ports as the charterers may elect; the time of employment
in that way being for fifteen months certain, with the right of the
charterers to extend it to twenty-four months. For such employment the charterers agree to pay to the owner or his agent,
at the rate of two thousand dollars per month, payable in New
York semiannually, and so on every six months during the continuance of the charter. Now, if there be not something else in
the charter to control the meaning of the words designating time
and place for payment, it cannot be doubted that it was the
intention of the owner and the charterers to make time and place
substantial parts of their contract. This is not an inference of
intention, but a declaration of it in words too intelligible for the
use of interpretation. They have a fixed meaning, and cannot,
of themselves, have any other meaning. That meaning, then,
is the contract between the parties; precisely with the same
obligation upon them as another stipulation would have, for the
payment of money at a given time and place, in any other analogous mercantile contract. There are no qualifying words of
those used to make them doubtful; nothing in the charter which
can be applied to make them so. No fact could happen, from
any stipulation in it, to make the time and place agreed upon
for payment uncertain. Place for the payment of money is a
substantial part of any contract to-pay it there. It can be insisted
upon by him- who is to receive it, and cannot be rightfully
refused or omitted by him who has it to pay. A broken promise of that kind gives to the creditor a right of action against
the debtor for its recovery. Why, upon principle, should a
promise to pay freight at a particular time, .nd at a place other

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

65

Raymond v. Tyson.

than that where the owner of the ship has undertaken to deliver
the cargo,-be required to be paid elsewhere ? It is the payer's
privilege to pay it there. And, should it not be paid, why sh6uld
the owner have more than a right of action for its recovery, or
larger remedies, by suit, than are given in any other contract?
We confess we do not see why. Place for the payment of
freight, other than that for which the cargo is shipped and discharged, amounts to a stipulation that freight will not be
demandedat the last, as a condition for the cargo's delivery. All
of the authorities concur in this, that place for the payment of
freight is a waiver of a lien upon the cargo, unless there are
already circumstances or stipulations to show that it could not
have been meant. It is so, because it is at variance with the
enforcement of such a lien, according to the usage of trade; and
it is so, because, when parties.to a charter-party depart from that
usage, by agreeing to pay and receive freight at another place
than that where the common law gives to an owner of a ship a
lien to enforce payment, it must. be regarded that the owner
had some sufficient reason for not insisting upon his right, according
to the
common
"But
it was
urged law.
by the counsel for the appellee, -vith earnestness and ingenious ability, that it might be shown that the time
and place fixed for the payment, under the charter, was not
meant by the owner to be a waiving of a lien. That it had no
other effect than to fix the periods of payment, and to suspend
the right to enforce a lien upon th6 cargo until default of payment. Time only might do that, but place connected with
time for payment does not.
It was said-that the cargo which the charterers agreed to furnish the ship, and which was put on board of her, to be-carried
from Cardiff to the Pacific, and, that the clause in the charter,
that bills of lading were to be signed without prejudice to it, in
connection with the fact, that, according to the ordinary length
of such a passage, the ship could not have made it before the
first payment.would have become due, indicated the owners' intention to retain a lien upon the cargo, as an additional security
for the first payment. It may have been that the owners had
such a purpose in view, apart from the changed condition of
the charterers, when payment was not made in New York; but
we are sure, from its inconsistency with the chartered employment of the ship, that the charterers never contemplated it
The ship was to load with a full cargo, at London or Cardiff, for
a port or ports in the Pa~ific, to be employed between such ports
as the. charterers might elect. She was not loaded for a specific
voyage to any particular port, where the- cargo was to be discharged, but it -was to be discharged at one or more'ports, as it6*

SUPREME COURT.
Raymond v. Tyson.

might have been their interest to direct. The ship sailed from
Cardiff to Panama, for orders, with a cargo to be delivered
"according to orders." Such is the language of the bill of
lading, (exactly in conformity with the charter-party,) signed at
Cardiff, on the 4tni May, 1850, thirty-four days after the ship's
hire is said to have commenced. When she arrived at Panama
is not shown, but when she arrived at San Francisco, the first
payment had become due; and when it was learned there that
it had not been paid in New York, her captain refused to discharge the cargo, according to orders, unless payment was made,
or security had been given for the freight; in that way, demanding money at San Francisco, which was only payable in New
York, or that security should be given for it; neither of which
has been provided for in the charter-party, in the event of a
default of the first payment. By doing so, he took the ship out
of her employment, which had then seven months to run, and
disabled the charterers from using her in the only way for which
she was chartered. It is no answer to say that his, act and its
consequences were occasioned by the default of tie charterers
to make the first semiannual payment. They had at that time
rights for a longer service of the ship, and it had not been
agreed that their default should either interrupt or terminate
them. The lien, as claimed and enforced, raised uncertainties
in the relations of the parties not anticipated by either, and at
variance with the rights of both. If it had been meant that
such a lien should be enforced, it certainly had not been provided
upon which of them the loss should fall for the time that the
ship would be withheld from her employment; whether or not
the owner should make an allowance for it out of the monthly
hire of the ship, or that the charterers should continue to pay it
whilst she was not in their use .or under their control. Such
uncertainties, changes of relations between the parties, and
consequences, are stronger against the lien claimed than any
inferences can be in its favor, which are made from the engagement of the charterers to furnish a cargo, or from the clause in
the charter that bills of lading were to be signed without prejudice to it, or from the fact asserted that the ship could not
arrive until after the first payment had become due.
Whether or not the delay in her arrival would have been, as it
is said the owner anticipated it would be, we do not know; but
we do know that the bill of lading was signed on the 4th of
May, 1850; that there were then one hundred and forty-six
days before the first payment would become due, for her to make
the passage, and it is not so certain that it might not have been
done, as that the contrary can be assumed to give any force to
the suggestion that the cargo had been stipulated for and fur-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

B7

Raymonc' v. Tyson.

nished, to give additional security to the owner by a lien, should
there be a failure to make the first semiannual payment. There
is too much of indirectness and covert intention in such an anticipation, for us to countenance it. The cargo was obviously
put on board as an adventure for profit. Without it, the time
it would have taken to make the passage to the locality of the
ship's principal employment, for which the charterer was paying
at the rate of two thousand dollars per month, would have been
a dead loss at least of five months of the time of her charter,
or of ten thousand dollars. It cannot be supposed that the
charterers were so blind to their interest as to permit that, or
that it was not their own interest which prompted them to furnish the cargo without any intention of giving to the owner an
opportunity to assert a lien for securing money which they had
promised to pay in New York.
Further, the declaration that the-time and place fixed for payment was a suspension of the lien, is an admission, if the ship
had arrived from Cardiff in time for the discharge of. the cargo
before the first payment became due, that the owner meant it
should be done without being subject to a lien for freight. It
was certainly meant that the cargoes which the ship might.have
carried from port to port in the Pacific, between the intervals
when payments were to be made, were to be discharged 'and
delivered without being subject to a lien for freight. It must
have been then the owner's intention that all of the cargoes
wbich the ship might carry were to be exempt from a lien,
except that which she might have on board when the payment
occurred. There is not in the charter any such distinction
between them, or any thing looking like the reservation of such
a right. Unless that can be made to appear, the engagemeht
of the owner to release a lien upon all other cargoes, and that
they were to be discharged before the payment of freight, does
not permit the exception of any one of them from that engagement. All of the authorities declare that the owner's consent
to receive freight before the cargo is delivered,,whaether it shall
be paid or not, is a waiver of a lien upon the cargo; and that
such a waiver may be inferred from a time and place having
been agreed upon for the payment of freight, which has no
referenc& to the place where the cargo is to be discharged.
But we will take the case as it'was; that the -ship did not
arrive until after the time fixed for the first payment, that it was
not paid, ard that on such account the lien was claimed. It
does not make the claim stronger. Had it been meant that nonpayment should give the lien, it should have been so stipulated.
The non-arrival of the ship cannot give to the default any
additional support for a lien. The lien here was asserted, not

SUPREME COURT.
Raymond v. Tyson.

in virtue of the law giving a lien upon cargo, but upon incidents
out of the charter, which it is said gave to the owner a lien
upon the contingency of their happening. Such a contingent
or conditional lien may be agreed for by the owner and the
charterer of a ship; but it must be done in terms leaving no
doubt about it; or it must be a clear case of inference, to prevail
against time fixed for the payment of fteight at a place where
the cargo is not to be discharged. The charter-party is to be
construed liberally, for the purpose of preserving a lien given by
the law, if the manner of it shall be only a matter of doubt.
But that doubt cannot be helped by contingencies outside of
the charter-party not plainly anticipated or growing out of one
of its stipnlations. Charter-parties are so frequently inaptly
and incautiously drawn, that they may be said almost to have
the indefiniteness of commercial guaranties. The language of
this court upon the trial of one of the last is applicable here.
"Letters of guaranty are written by merchants, rarely with
caution and scarcely ever with precision. They refer, in most
cases, as they do in the present, to various circumstances and
extensive commercial dealings in the briefest and most casual
manner, without regard to form." The same may be said of
charter-parties. "Though they have usually a printed form for
a basis, they are often filled up by ship-brokers and merchants,
with little cau ion and without much attention to a perception
of the fitness or unfitness of that form to the special circumstances of particular cases." It is to be expected, then, that there
will be in them unprecise and inconsistent stipulations, which
must have, as other mercantile contracts usually receive, a liberal
construction in furtherance of the intentions of the parties and
the usage of trade. But we do not know a point in commercial
law upon which the reported cases are more in conflict. It is
said by the last English editor of Lord Tenterden's Treatise,
that on a review of the decisions respecting the ship-owner's
lien for freight, it is impossible not to regret thd uncertainty introduced by their almost irreconcilable conflict with the construction of contracts of charter-parties. The courts of America,
in the adoption of our refinements, have reaped for their mercantile communities all the uncertainties attending them; and
there and here, as the law now stands, it will be useful for the
ship-owner to remember, that although the exercise of his lien
may be upheld in cases of doubtful -construction, an express
contract is the surest and strongest ground upon which that
light can rest; and that, by inserting an agreement respecting it
in the charter-party, the parties to it may, between themselves,
obviate all difficulty upon the subject.
It is certainly to be regretted that such should have been the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

69

Raymond v. Tyson.

uncertainty, in both countries, upon so important a point of commercial law. One of our objects in this opinion has been to
produce more uniformity of construction hereafter. We thought
it would be best done by establishing, from adjudicated cases,
and only from such, those rules for the construction of charterparties, and other contracts of affreightment, which arc most
frequently needed in trials upon them in courts. One of them
we will repeat, in the language of Lord Tenterden. The general rule which our courts of law have adopted in the construction of charter-parties, as well as other mercantile instruments,
is, that the construction shall be liberal, a7eeable to the intention of the parties, and conformable to tie usage of trade in
general, atid of the particular trade to which the contiract relates.
Another kule drawn from time cases cited in this opinion is, if
the owner of a ship stipulates to receive her freight at a time
and place having no reference to the place for the delivery of
the cargo, or at variance with such time and place, he is to be
considered as iaving waived his lien.
Both of these rules of construction are applicable to this case.
The owner's agreement to receive the hire of time ship at intervals of six months, and in the city of New York, during the
continuance of the charter-party, has no reference to tlme place
at which the cargo was to be delivered, and is at variance with
the right wnich the charterer had to fix the time and place for
such delivery. The owner, then, is considered by us as having
waived his lien upon the cargo for freight. We shall, therefore,
reverse the judgment of the court belowN, and decree a dismission
of the libel, with directions that opinion.
further proceedings in the case
shall be in conformity with this
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL.
I dissent from the opinion of the court; and, as the question
is one of importahce, I think it proper to record tile reasdns for
the dissent.
The parties agree, that the contract of affreightment, between
the libellant- and -Howard and Son, did not displace the owner
from the control and possession of the ship for any portion of
the term of its duration.
When the master arrived at San' Francisco, with the vessel,
he found the first instalment of the freight money due and unpaid, and that he was in the lawful possession of a cargo, shipped
according to the charter-party, for the voyage which was then
completed. The coexistence of such a debt, with the lawful
possession of such property, form the conditions upon which a

SUPREME

COURT.

Raymond v. Tyson.

lien depends; and the owners claim to detain the property as a
security for the debt, and which must be allowed, unless he has
defeated it by some obligation indicative of its "determinate
abandonment." The claimant supposes that the evidence of
such a contract exists in the charter-party.
Holt, in his work on shipping, (part 3, ch. 6, § 63,) upon a
review of the cases, concludes, "that the language of a charterparty must be very strong, indeed, to exclude, under any circumstances, the lien of the owner. This right, being both legal and
equitable, the courts are naturally disposed to favor it, and
not to impair or diminish its exercise, except under circumstances where it would be unreasonable to enforce it, and contrary to the intention of the parties." And further, "that the
owner's right of lien is so far favored in law, that whilst he keeps
possession, by his master and crew, it can only be excluded by
the most express and absolute terms, or by a necessary implication from the contract." And so are adjudged cases. Saville
v. Campion, 3 Bing. N. C. 17; Gladstanes v. Allen, 12 C. B. R.
202.; .1 Sumn. 551; 2 H. 597. There is no express stipulation
in this contract to defeat the lien of the libellant, and the case
of the claimant, therefore, depends upon the discovery of an
article wholly incompatible with its existence.
Lord Tenterden, discussing clauses of a charter-party that
affect a lien, says: "the right may exist, if it appear from the
instrument in any way that the payment is to be made in cash
or bills before, or at, the delivery of the cargo, or even if it does
not appear that the delivery of the cargo is to precede such payment;" and "that when the payment is to be made by bills,
the right of retention continues till they are given, and would, it
is conceived, revive, in case of their dishonor, before the shipowner has parted with the goods." And so are adjudged cases.
Abb. Ship. 299; 1 Dans and Ll. 193; 1 Maule and S. 535;
Cross on Lien, and cases cited, 311. The circumstances that
appear in the record seem to bring this case fully within the
operation of these principles. It is not shown that the voyage
from Cardiff to Panama "for orders," and the- voyage from
Panama to San Francisco pursuant to orders, were otherwise
than in strict accordance with the calculations of the parties.
The cargo taken at Cardiff, by contract, did not reach San Francisco until after the first instalment for the use of the vessel, upon
these voyages, became due, and advices from New York had
been received at San Francisco of the default of the shipper.
That a right should arise for the detention of the cargo, until
the freight was paid, would seem to follow, from the principles
before stated.
But it is said, that, there having been no express reservation

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

71

Raymond v. Tyson.

of a lien, and the owner having consented to receive his money
in New YoAk, by instalments, present conditions inconsistent
with the existence of a lien.
The reply is, that the commercial law does not exact a stipulation to support the lien of the ship-owner, but requires circumstances expressive of "a determinate abandonment," as the
condition of its removal; no deduction can, therefore, be legitimately drawn from the silence of the contract. And the requisitions for payment in New York, by instalments, show that the
owner had some confidence in the personal responsibility of
Howard and Son, and did not rely exclusively upon the profits
of the adventure, or the security of the cargo; but they cannot
fairly be held to establish any renunciation or determinate abandonment of the remedies the law affords, in case of their default.
And this evidence of a waiver of the lien, imperfect as it is, is
still more impaired by the facts, that though the amount of the
freight did not depend upon the lading of the vessel, but was payable in any event; and though a full cargo for so long a voyage
could not fail to injure the vessel, nevertheless the owners stipulated that a "full cargo of lawful merchandise" should "be
provided," and bills of lading signed, without prejudice -to the
charter.
I admit that, after the completion of her first voyage, and after
the arrival of the vessel at San Francisco, and she had then entered upon the coasting trade between ports on the Pacific, cases
may be put where a cargo might not be subject to a lien; and
others, where the libellant would find embarrassment in enforcing
-one. But this case involves no difficulty. And to allow the
lien, will be, in my opinion, a consistent application of familiar
and well-settled principles of commercial law.
'I am authorized to say, Dr. Jusfice GRIER concurs in this
opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the northern district of California, and was argued by counsel On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court, affirming the
decree of the district court in this cause, be and the same is
hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause be and the
same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to dismiss the libel filed in this cause in the said ditrict
court, with costs.

