DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

471

Pulliam v. Osborne.

ZACHARY PULLIAM, EXECUTOR OF A.OS ALBRITTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ALE.XANDER OSBORNE, A.DMIINISTRATOR
OF SAMUEL WOODWARD.
Although, by the laws of Alabama, a lien upon property accrues from the delivery
of the execution to the sheriff or marshal, and the rights of creditors claiming
under the same jurisdiction are adjudged accordingly, yet the same rule does not
Saply
where a controversy arises between executions issued by a court of the
nited States and a State court.
In such a case the rule is, that whichever officer, the sheriff or the marshal, acquires
possession of the property first by the levy of the execution, obtains a prior right,
and a purchaser at a judicial sale will take the property free from all liens of the
same description.

TfiIS case originated in the district court of the United
States, for the middle district of Alabama, between Samuel
Woodward, plaintiff in execution, and Amos Albritton,
(claimant,) defendant, who were afterwards represented by
their administrator and executor respectively. It was a contest as to the superior validity of executions issued out of a
state court and a United States court, under the following
:circumstances

United States Execution.

State Execution.

1842.

1S42.
April 19. Two judgments
against Pulliam in the district
court of Pickens county.

Mlay term. -Woodward's
May 4. Executions on these
judgment against Pulliam in issued.
the district court of the United
States for the middle district of
Alabama.

June 10. Execution issued.

July 12. Sheriff levied on
certain slaves.
Bonds given
for their forthcoming on first
Monday in August.
August 3.
Execution on
these forthcoming bonds.

472

SUPREME COURT.
Pulliam v. Osborne.

September 21.
Execution
levied on the negroes named in
the issue in this case.
October 26. Marshal levied' October 8.
Sheriff sold
on the negroes.
slaves to Albritton.
Upon the trial, the court instructed the jury as follows, viz.
On the case being submitted to the jury, the court charged
the jury, that if the executions which issued on the two judgments against Pulliam were levied upon sufficient property,
and a bond given for the forthcoming of the property on the
day of sale, in each case, which bonds were forfeited and thus
returned by the sheriff, and that afterwards executions were
issued on the judgments rendered on the said forthcoming
bonds, against the said Pulliam and his surety in the said
forthcoming bonds, which said executions did not come to the
hands of the sheriff until some days after the execution in favor
of the plaintiff was received by the marshal; that the said
plaintiff had the priority of lien on the property of Pulliam, and
that the said, negroes levied upon by the marshal, in said 6ase,
were liable to satisfy the execution of the said plaintiff, notwithstanding they had been levied upon and sold by the sheriff
under the execution against Pulliam and his surety in the
forthcoming bonds; to which charge claimant excepts, and
prays the judge of this court to sign and seal this bill of exceptions, which is accordingly done.
WM. CRAWFOnD, [Sr.AL.]
This instruction being in favor of Woodward, the plaintiff
in execution, Albritton sued out a writ of error and canied the
case to the circuit court of the United States, for the fifth
judicial circuit, southern district of Alabama.
In April, 1853, that court passed an order "that the said
cause be transferred to the supreme court of the United Stales,
according to the statute in such case made and provided."
It was argued by Mr. Badger, for the plaintiff in error, no
counsel appearing for the defendant.
Ir. Badger contended that the instructions of the court
below were erroneous, and that the claimant, Albritton, obtained a good title under his purchase from the sheriff.
TirzT. The lien upon the slaves created by the issue, delivery,
and levy of the first executions from the state court continued,
notwithstanding the giving of the forthcoming bonds; the

DECEMBER

TERM,

1854.

473

Pulliam v. Osborne.

slaves were still in custodia legis, and not liable to seizure
under another execution from another coirt. Caperton v.
Martin, 5 Ala. N. S. 217; Langdon v. Brumby, 7 Ala.. 53;
Dordmus v. Walker, 8 Ala. 194; Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400.
Secondly. If the lien of the first-issued executions upon the
judgments in the state court was lost by the taking of the
forthcoming bonds and surrender of the slaves to the defendant in execution, still, the title of the clkimant was valid.
Then the case would be this: an execution from the court of
the United States was delivered to the marshal on the 10th
June, but no proceedings had until the 26th October; meantime executions from the state court were delivered -to the
'sheriff, (to wit, on the 3d of August,) and the slaves levied
upon, (to wit on the 2d of September,) and sold, (to wit, on
the 3d of October.)
Now, the rule in such case, adopted because absolutely necessary to prevent collisions between different jurisdictions
having a common authority aver the same subject is this:
" here there are several authorities equally competent to bind
the goods of a party, when executed by the proper officer, they
(the goods) shall be consideied as effectually, and for all purposes, bound by the authority which first actually attaches
upon them,, in point of execution, and under which an execution shall have been first executed." Payne v. Drewe, 4 East.
523; Hagan v. LDcas, above cited.
Upon this principle, the supreme court of North Carolina, in
which -State the common law still obtains that executions bind
the goods from their teste, laid down the rule in these terms:
"When several executions issuing from different competent
courts are in the hands of different officers, then, to prevent
conflicts, if the officer holding the junior execution seizes property by virtue of it, the property so seized is not subject to the
execution in the hands of the other officer, although 'first
tested." And the court held that "a levy attaches upon the
goods in point of execution." Jones v. Judkins, 4 Dev. and
Bat. 454.
It is believed that nothing can be urged against these positions with even apparent force, except what is said by the
supreme court of Alabama in the before-cited case of Langdon
v. Brumby: that where goods are levied upon by a. junior
execution, and delivered to a third person upon his making
claim, &c., according to the law of that State, these goods may
be seized under an execution, the lien of which first commenced.
If this should be alleged, the follo'wing answers will be*
given

-

474

SUPREME

COURT.

Pulliam v. Osborne.
1. The case stated by that court is not ours; there the execution referred to was senior to that under which the first seizure
was made; here the execution of the defe-,dant in error was
junior to that under which the first seizure was made.
2. However, the rule may be a good one in cases contemplated by it where the same officer is charged with both executions, it being his duty so to arrange the processes in his hands
as to apply the property to the satisfaction of that which has
legal priority, it can never be just where the executions are in
the hands of several officers acting under independent authorities, having a concurrent jurisdiction over the same subject.
3. The rule was applied and is applicable only where no sale
has been actually made under the junior execution; for if such
sale has been made. whether with or without fault of the officer
holding the executions, the title of the purchaser is valid, and
the goods sold are not liable to seizure under the senior execution. Smallcomb v. Buckingham, 1 Ld. Ravm. 251; Hutchinson v. Johnston, 1 T. R. 729; Ryebot v. Peckham, in note, 731.
4. If this be so, where there is one officer acting under one
jurisdiction, in the execution of several writs, dfortiori, and, to
avoid manifold inconveniences, it must be so where there are
different officers acting under jurisdictions independent of each
other.
Finally. There having been no seizure under the execution
from the United States court, on ,the 3d August, when the
sheriff made his levy, nor when lie made his sale, on the 3d of
October, this much is certain: The sheriff had a right, and was
bound to levy and sell; and, if lie had returned'nulla bona, he
would clearly have been liable for a false return. Then the
sheriff had lawful authority to seize, and lawful authority to
sell, and, consequently, the purchaser obtained a good title; for
how can it be maintained that the sheriff may lawfully sell
what no one may lawfully buy? Yet this is the whole question in the cause; for the marshal claims to sell under his process what had been before bought under the execution of the
state court, which he cannot do if the former sale was lawfully
made, under sufficient authority. It is, in one word, an attempt
by the marshal to transfer to another the consequences justly
due to himself, for having delayed to take any steps upon the
execution in his hands, from the 10th June to the 26th October,
and permitting a junior process, in the mean, time, to attach
and apply the property to another demand.
MIr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This was ah issue in the -district court, under a statute of
Alabama, (Clay's Digest, 213, §§ 62, 64,) for the trial of the

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

Puiliam v. Osborne.

right to property taken under an execution from that court, in
favor of the appellee, and claimed by the testator of the appellant, as beronging to him, and not to the defendant in the execution.
It appeared on the trial that, at the delivery of the execution
to the marshal, in favor of the .appellee, the property belonged
to thu defendant, and that the levy was made before the return
day of the writ; but that, before this levy, the property had
been seized and sold to the claimant, by a sheriff in Alabama,
under executions issued from the state courts, upon valid judgments, after the teste and delivery of the executions from the
district court.
The district court instructed the jury, that a sale under a
junior execution from the state court did not devest the lien of
tht execution from the district court, and that the writ might be
executed, notwithstanding the seizure and sale under the process
from the state court.
The lien of an execution, under the laws of that State, commences from the delivery of the -writ to the sheriff, and the lien
in the courts of the United States depends upon the delivery of
the writ to their officer. But no provision is made by the statutes of the State or United States for the determination of the
priorities between the creditors of the respective courts, state
and federal. They merely provide for the settlement of the piiorities between creditors prosecuting their claims in the same
jurisdiction.
The demands of the respective creditors, in the present instance, were reduced to judgments, and the officers of either
court were invested with authority to seize the property.
The liens were, consequently, coordinate or equal; and, in
such cases, the tribunal which first acquires possession of the
property, by the seizure of its officer, may dispose of it so as to
vest a title in the purchaser, discharged of the claims of creditors
of the same grade.
This court applied this principle (Williams v. Benedict,
8 How. 107) to determine between judgment creditors in a
court of the United States, and an administrator holding under
the orders of a probate court of a State; in Wiswall v. Simpson, 14 How. 52, in favor of a receiver holding under the
appointment of a court of chancery of a State and a judgment
creditor; in Peale v. Phipps, 14 How. 368, in favor of a trustee
in possession, under the order of a county court, against such a
creditor; and in Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400, between execution creditors issuing from state and federal jurisdictions. The
same principle has been applied, in several state courts, in favor
of the purchasers at judicial sales of steamboats, and other

SUPREME COURT.
Pulfiam v. Osborne.

crafts subject to liens in the nature of admiralty liens. Steamboat Rover v. Stiles, 5 Black. 4S3; Steamboat Raritan v. Smith,
10 Mo. 527; 19 Ala. 738; and is recognized in the courts of
common law and admiralty in Great Britain. 4 East. 523;
2 Wims. Ex'rs, 888; The Saracen, 3 W. Rob.
In Alabama, the bond fide purchaser at a judicial sale, made
to enforce a statutory lien, takes the property discharged of liens
of the same description, whether the subject of sale be land or
personal property. Wood v. Gary, 5 Ala. 43; 12 lb. 838;
11 Tb. 426. The propriety of the rule is fully vindicated by the
statement in ltagan v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400, where this court
says
A most injurious conflict of jurisdiction would be
likely often to arise between the federal and state courts, if the
final process of the one could be levied on property which had
been taken by the. process of the other. The marshal or the
sheriff, as the case may be, acquires by a levy a special property
in the goods, and may maintain an action for them. But if the
same goods may be taken in execution at the same time, by the
marshal and the sheriff, does this special property vest in the
one or the other, or both of them? No such case can exist;
property once levied on remains in the custody of the law, and
it is not liable to be taken by another execution in the hands of
a different officer, and especially an officer acting under a different jurisdiction."
The instruction of the district court is erroneous, and its
judgment is therefore reversed and cause remanded.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the southern district of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the district court of the United
States for the middle district of Alabama in this cause be and
the same 'is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be
and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court of
the United States for the middle district of Alabama, with
directions to award a venire facias de novo.

