DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

601

Christy = Alford.

WILLIAM

QHRISTY,

PLAINTIFF, IN ERROR, v. LODOV.ICK P.

FORD, ADmINISTRATOR OF HENRY

A.

D.BULLARD, DECEASED.

The fifteenth sectian of the statute of limpitations o f Texas is as iows: "cEvery
suit to be instituted to recover realiestate, as against him, her, or them, in possession, under title or color of title, shall he instituted within three years next after
cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards.
The proper construction of this section is, that a possession may be in two or more
holding in privity, one under another; and if the possession of both so holding
will make out the term prescribed, and he who is sued has title or color of title,
then the bar will be effectual.
Therefore, where two persons, claiming under the same head-right certificate, had
possession of the land claimed for three years, it was sufficient.
The decisions of the supreme court of Texas upon this subject examined.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the district'
court of the United States for the district of Texas.
The case is stated in the~opinion of the court.

It was submitted upon printed arguments, by Mr1.()rIlenden,

MlJr. Hughes, and Mlr. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and

by Mr. Hill and Mr. Henderson, for the defendant.

od. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us by a writ of error to the district

court for the district of Texas.

It was atn action of trespass, to

try the title to a tract of land. On. the trial, the defendant
relied on the 15th ection of the statute of limitations, passed
in 1841, by the congress of the then Republic of Texas, which is

in the following words : "1Every suit to be instituted to recover
real estate, as against him, her, or them, in possession, under title
or color of title, shall be instituted within three years next after
cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards, saving,"
In reference to this defence the district judge instructed the
jury, that a possession under the said 15th section might be
in two or more, holding in privity, one under another; and if the
possession of both so holding will make out the term prescribed
by said section, and he sued has title or color of title, thenithe

bar will be effectual.
The plaintiff excepted to this instruction, and the jury found
a verdict for the defendant
Several objections to this instruction have been relied on in
this court. The first is, that a holding by two persons, for the.

space of three years, one claiming and holding in privity with

the other, does not:satisfy the statute; that the person who is
sued must himself have held for the space of three years. The
argument is, that the period off three years begins to
when
au,
VOL. XVII.5

602

SUPREME" COURT.
Christy v. Alford,

"cause of action shall have accrued;" that the statute does not
say when a cause of action, or the first cause of action accrued,
but, when cause of action accrued; that cause of action accrues
against each tenant, in succession, when he enters, whether he,
come into the land in privity with the preceding occupant or
not; for each is a trespasser by an unlawful entry; that the
statute refers, not to the cause of action which first accrues to
the plaintiff by reason of an unlawful entry, but to the cause
of action which accrues to him by reason of the entry of the
particular person sued. It is conceded that this construction of
the statute is not in conformity with that put upon the -21 Jac.
I. ch. 16, and its reenactments in this country; but it is insisted
that the particular terms of the statute in question call for a
different interpretation, because the bar therein provided for is
confined to certain cases therein enumerated, and is not applicable to all cases of adverse holding for the space of three
years.
It must be admitted that the bar afforded by the 15th section of the statute is confined to the particular cases therein
described; but the question is, whether that description excludes
cases where there has been an adverse holding for three years,
by different persons holding in privity with each other; and we
are of opinion that such cases are included in the 15th section.
We think both the language of the law and its subject-matter,
as well as the analogous cases respecting the interpretation of
similar statutes, call for this construction. The plaintiff would
read the law as if it had said, "within three years next after
cause of action shall have accrued" against the person
sued. But these words are not in the law, nor would the court
be justified in interpolating them. It is true, the only cases
enumerated in the law are suits a;ainst persons in possession
under title or color of title. But the definitions of the terms,
title and color of title, which immediately follow, are: "By the
term title, as used in this section, is meant a regular chain of
transfer from and under the sovereignty of the soil; and color
of title is constituted by a consecutive chain of such transfer
down to him, her, or them, in possession, without being regular,
as if. one or more of the memorials, or muniments, be not registered or not duly registered," &c. It is quite plain, therefore,
that when this section speaks of a suit against one in possession under title or color of title, it is not confined to cases in
which the defendant was the first to enter under that title. If
he be in a ,regular chain of transfer from and under the sovereignty of the soil, or in a consecutive chain of such transfer,
though informal in its instruments, he is a defendant within the
descriptive words of this section; and it is wholly immaterial

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

603

Christy v. Alford.

whether he was the first taker from the sovereign of the soil
or not.
The words, "as against him; her, or them in possession, under
title or color of title," restrict the bendfit of this bar. to those
persons who hold under such a title; the words, "shall be instituted within three years next -after cause of action shall have
accrued, and not afterwards," prescribe the length of time
during which cause of action must have existed, by reason of
an adverse holding under such a title. And as, by the very
terms of the act, the person setting up this bar must be in a
chain of transfer from the sovereignty of the soil down to himpelf, it necessarily follows that the defendant setting up the bar
must be in privity with his predecessors in the title, and that he
cannot rely on the title or possession of any one under whom
he does not claim. There is nothing in the act to restrict'the
party sued from relying on the possession of any predecessor in
that title under the sovereignty of the soil, which has come to
himself, and the purpose of the act requires that he should be
allowed t6 do so. That purpose was to give repose to such
titles by three years' adverse possession. But if the construction contended for by the plaintiff in error were adopted, three
years' possession under that title, by one person, would not
quiet that title. If a descent were cast, or an alienation took
place, after three years had elapsed, a right of action would
accrue against the heir or purchaser who should enter, and that
action would not be barred because the defendant had not himself held possession for three years.
This would be an ext-raordinary anomaly. At the common
law a descent cast tolled the right of entry, because the heir
came in by operation of law; and a discontinuance was worked
by the alienation of a tenant in tail, so that the alienee could
not be entered on by the heir in tail. These rules of the common law were changed, in part, by the 32 Hen-. VIIL ch. 33, and
have been wholly abrogated in most of the United States; but
that the title of the heir or alienee should be worse than that of
the ancestor or grantor, and that an" action, wholly barred
against the latter, should be revived and be in force upon
an entry by the former, under a title already protected by the
act, would indeed be strange. We see nothing in the language
or objects of the law, and certainly there is nothing in the decisions under analogous laws, calling for this interpretation.
Though we do not know that the supreme court of Texas
has had occasion to decide the precise question here presented,
that-learned court has repeately expressed views of this section
of the act of 1841, in accordance with those we have above
given. In Wheeler v. Moody,. 9 Texas R. 377, that court, in

SUPREME- COURT.
Christy v. Alford.

considering a defence set up under the 15th section of this act,
say: " The possession need not be continued by the same person; but, when held by different persons, it must be shown that
a privity existed between them." So, in Horton v. Crawford,
10 Texas R. 390, speaking of the time when the cause of action
accrues, within the meaning of this section, they say: " When
does the cause of action accrue ? Unquestionably, at the instant of possession taken under the circumstances specified in
the statute; namely, under title or color of title, according to
the definition of those terms given in the law itself." See,
also, Portis et ux. v. Hill's Administrator, 3 Texas I. 273.
We understand, therefore, that our views of this statute are
in accordance with those of the supreme court of Texas, so far
as that learned court has had occasion to express any opinion
on the subject; and we hold, in the terms laid down by them in
the case of Wheeler v. Moody, that, under the 15th section of
the act of 1841, the possession need not be continued by the
same person, and that, consequently, the instruction of the district court, in this particular, was correct.
But it is firther objected, that the instruction given did not
require that the first holder should have been in under title or
color of title, but only that the person sued should have title or
color of title; and that this instruction would allow the benefit
of this bar to one having title, and a possession of less than
three years, if he claimed in privity with another who had previously possessed <vithout title. But the instruction must be
taken with reference to the admitted facts upon which it was
given. Those facts were: "It was proved by the admissions
of the parties by their attorneys, that L. P. Alford and the
defendant, by a union of the several, possessions, had, next
before the commencement of the plaintiff's action, peaceable,
adverse, and uninterrupted possession, for more than three years,
claiming under color of title, of six hundred and forty acres of
land, by virtue of said Alford's head-right certificate, duly recommended, duly surveyed, and returned to the general land-office,
and -within the boundary of both of the one-league surveys of
plaintiff, described and mentioned in the second and third count
of his petition."
There was no room to argue, nor could the jury find that
any part of the three years' possession was held without color
of title, for the contrary is expressly admitted.. In referenqe to
the particular facts of this case, the instruction was not erroneous in the particular complained of.
-It is also urged that, in addition to what was said by the
court, the jury should have been told that the defendant, having
no title or color of title such as that prescribed by the statute,

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

605

Christy v. Alford.

could not have the benefit of the bar, by virtue of the title or
color of title of Alford, under whom he claimed; for the reason
that, claiming a bar under the statute, he had to show the circumstances prescribed by it; and the title prescribed having to
be a transfer down to him in possession, the requirement was
not complied with by showing a title in him under whom he
claimed; and the consequence is, that the defendant, instead of
proving himself within the iule required, shows himself out of
it, and not entitled to the bar.
But, upon the iacts .agreed, this position is not tenable. It
was agreed that the defendant's possession wds under color of
title, by virtue of Alford's head-right certificate; and the instruction given by the court required the jury-to find that the defendant claimed in privity with Alford; and this privity is also
adinitted, for he could be in.under color of Alford's head-right
only by force of . consecutive chain of transfer through Alford
from the sovereignty of the soil.
He was, therefore, not setting up color of title in another,
but in himself. It is true, the record does not show how this
privity was created, nor that the defendant was in a consecutive chain of. transfer. But the necessity for this proof was
doflie away by the admission of the plaintiff, that the defendant
was in possession under color of title; for, as has just been
observed, this was equivalent to an admission that he was in
under such a chain of transfer from the govereignty of the
soil.

It has also been urged, that the 14th section of this statute
allows an entry within ten years next after the right accrues.
We are spa ed the necessity of discussing this question at large,
because it has been distinctly decided by the supreme cburt of
Texas, in Horton v. Crawford, 10 Texas R.382; and we concur
entirely in the correctness of the reasoning by which it is there
shown that the 14th section of the act has no effect upon the
bar created by the 15th section.
The other matters assigned for error related exclusively to the
plaintiff's title. But as the bar under the 15th section of the
statute of limitations wag complete and effectual upon the conceded facts, there can be no error in the judgment in favor of
the defendant, even if the court ruled erroneously in respect to
the title of the plaintiff; and we have not considered these
alleged errors, ahd give no opinion thereon.
The judgrwent of the district court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcipt of the
51*

606

SUPREME COURT.
Dennistoun et al. v. Stewart.

record from the district court of the United States for the district of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
the judgment of the said district court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs

ALEXANDER DENNISTOUN, JOHN DENNISTOUN, WILLIAM CRAIG
MYLNE, AND WILLIAM WOOD, PARTNERS, UNDER THE STYLE
OF A. DENNISTOUN AND COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

ROGER STEWART.
Where the protest of a bill of exchange contained an exact copy of the bill, but
the acceptance was made by "Chas. Byrne," instead of "And. E. Byrne," as
it was in the original bill, this variance or error in the name of the acceptor's
agent ought not to have excluded the protest from being read in evidence to the
jury.
It is unnecessary that a copy of the protest should be included in the notice to the
drawer and indorsers. The object of the notice is to inform the party that
payment has been refused; and hence such a description of the note as will give
sufficient information to identify it, is all that is necessary.
In this case, the protest had an accurate 'copy of every material fact which could
identify the bill: the date, the place where drawn, the amount, the merchandise on
which it was drawn, the ship by which it was sent, the balance on the cotton for
which it was accepted, the names of drawers, acceptor, indorsers ; every thing but
the abbreviations and flourishes in the Christian name of the acceptor's agent. This
mistake could not mislead any person as to the identity of the instrument described.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the southern district of Alabama.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Phillips,for the plaintiffs in error, no
counsel appearing for the defendant.

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs declared against the defendant, as drawer of a
bill of exchange, by the name and style of James Reid and Co.,
of which the following is a copy: Mobile, Sept. 9, 1850.
X4,417 14s. lid. st'g.
"No. -.
" Sixty days after sight of this first of exchange, (second and
third unpaid,) pay to the order of ourselves, in London, forty.
four hundred and seventeen pounds, 14s. lid. st'g, value re-

