SUPREME

COURT.

Judson v. Corcoran.

There is a misjoinder of parties. But this objection is taken
here, for the first time; and the difficulty may be obviated by a
nolle prosequi in the district court, which is allowable under the
decisions of this court. Minor v. Bank of Alexandria, 1 Pet.
46; United States v. Leffier, 11 lb. 86; Amis v. Smith, 16 lb.
303.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the
northern district of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said district court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said
district court, with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

WILLIAM JUDSON, APPELLANT, V. WILLIAM W.

CORCORAN.

Where a prior assignee of a claim against Mexico gave no information of the assignment until a subsequent assignee had prosecuted the claim before the commissioner1s, and obtained an award in his favor, the equities of these parties were equal,
and the possessor of the legal title ought to retain the fund.
The award was not conclusive amongst the claimants. The decision of a former
court upon this point again affirmed.
The cases examined respecting the relative equities of prior and subsequent assignees of a chose in action.

THis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the
county of Washington.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by 1l1r. Lawrence and iVXr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, and by MZr. Bradley and Mr. Carlisle, for the
defendant.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Judson brought this suit in equity, to recover $6,000 from
William W. Corcoran, in whose favor a decree had been made
for about $15,000, by the board of commissioners acting according to the 15th article of our treaty with Mexico of 1848.
Corcoran claimed, as assignee, under Bradford B. Williams

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

613

Judsou v. Corcoran.

and Joseph H. Lord, who were owners of the cargo of the ship
Henry Thofnpson, and which was unlawfully 'seized and confiscated by the authorities of -Mexico.
The claim having been presented to the mixed commission
under the convention between the United States and Mexico, of
April, 1839, the American members of that board made a report
in favor of the claim; but the Mexican coinmissioners not concurring in the opinion of their colleagues, the case was referred
to the umpire, and was returned by him without a decision. It
therefore constituted one of that class of cases embraced in the
5th article of the unratified convention of the 20th November,
1843, and which is referred to and incorporated into the 15th
article of the treaty of peace of Guadaloupe Hidalgo; and having been modified in some of its provisions, the ratifications
were exchanged on 30th May, 1848.
On the 3d March, 1849, an act of congress was passed to
carry some of the provisions of this treaty into eflect. -Among
other things, it provided for the establishment of a board of
commissioners, "whose du ty it shall be to receive and examine
all claims of citizens of the United'States upon the Republic
of Mexico, whicH are provided for by the treaty, and to decide
thereon according to the provisions of the treaty."
On the 11th of June, 1845, Br'tdford B. Williams assigned
one half of his interest in the claim in dispute to E. H. Warner.
August 15, 1845, Warner assigned the same interest to Villiam B. Hart. October 15, 1846, Williams assigned to Hart
the residue of his interest. October 3, 1846, Joseph H. Lord
assigned to Hart all his interest in the claim. June1'3, 1847,
Hait assigned the whole claim to William IV. Corcoran.
"By these several assignments, (says the late board.) the
whole became vested in the said William
LW. Corcoran, and the
award was therdfore made in his favor."
On the first day of January, 1845, Bradford B. Williams had
assigned to William Judson, the complainant, an interest of
$6,000, of the amount of the suspended elaimi pronounced valid.
by our commissioners, in 1842, with interest fron the date of the
assignment.
From Jantlary, 1845, to June, 18'847, about two years and a
half, Judson held his assiganient without filing any notice of its
existence at the Department of. State, so that others might have
notice of his interest, nor did lie set up any pretension until the
assignee, Corcoran, had prosecuted. the claim T6 a final award,
and was- adjudged by the board of commissioners to be the
legal owner of the amount awarded; and as legal owner Corcoran is sued.
In regard fo the prelininary questions raised at the bari it
VOL. xvrI."

52

SUPREME

COURT.

Judson v. Corcoran.

may be remarked that we have no doubt the district court had
authority to hear and determine the equities of the parties, notwithstanding the judgment in Corcoran's favor by the board of
commissioners. The question that an award like the present is
not conclusive among adverse claimants, was settled in the case
of Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 193, in 1828, and has not since
been open.
And as respects the validity of assignments of claims like the
one here presented, no question can be raised at this day, as such
assignments have been recognized by the various boards of
commissioners and the courts of justice lor many years. The
case of Comegys v. Vasse, also adjudged this point.
The contest here depends on the merits. Judson had the
earliest assignment of part of the amount declared to be due to
Williams, by the two United States commissioners, in 1842, to
the extent of $6,000, and the claim assigned being a right depending on an equity against the government of Mexico, and
assuming that both sets of assignments are alike lair, and originally. stood on the same bondfide footing, the rule of necessity
is, that the assignor having parted with his interest by the first
assignment, the second assignee could take nothing; and, as he
represents his assignor, is bound by the equities imposed on the
latter; 1 White and Tudors Eq. Ca. 236; and hence has arisen
the maxim in such cases, that he who is first in time is best in
right. But this general rule has exceptions, and the case before
us was obviously decided in the court below on an exception to
the general rule.
Judson took his assignment in January, 184.5, which he first
produced in May, 1851, when this bill was filed. In the mean
time Corcoran had got his assignment, and immediately gave
written notice of it to the Department of State, and August
17, 1847, received an answer from the secretary, recognizing
the fact of notice having been received, and that it was filed
with the documents of the postponed claim of Williams and
Lord, appertaining to the unfinished award.
Corcoran's assignment was fair, and accepted on his part
without knowledge of Judson's ; nor is the contrary, alleged in
the bill. And assuming Judson's to be fair also, and that no
negligence could be imputed to him, then the case is one where
an equity was successively assigned in a chose in action to two
innocent persons, whose equities are equal, according to the
moral rule governing a court of chancery. Here, Corcoran has
drawn to his equity a legal title to the fund, which legal title
Judson seeks to set aside, and asks an affirmative decree in his
favor to that effect.
Now, nothing is better settled than that this cannot be done.
The equities being equal, the law must prevail.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

615

Judson r. Corcoran.

There are other objections to the case made by the appellant,
growing out of negligence on his part in not presenting his
assignment and claim of property to the State Department, so
as to notify others of the fact. The assignment was held up
and operated as a latent and lurking- transaction, calculated to
circumvent subsequent assignees, and such would be its effect
on Corcoran, were priority accorded to it by our decree. It is
certainly true, as a general rule, as above stated, that a purchaser
of a chose in action, or of an equitable title, must abide by the
case of the person from whom he buys, and will only be entitled
to the remedies of the seller; and yet, there may be cases in
which a purchaser, by sustaining the character of a bonti fide
assignee, will be in a better situation than the person- was of
whom he bought; as, for instance, where the purchaser, who
alone had made inquiry and given notice to the debtor, or to a
trustee holding the fund, (as in this instance)) would be preferred
over the prior purchaser, who neglected
to buy. to give notice of his
assignment, aid warn others not
The cases of Dearle z.'Hall, and Loveridge v. Cooper,'3 Rusell's R. 1, 60, established the doctrine to the foregoing effiect in
England; they were followed in the case of Mangles v.- Dixon,
McNaughten and Gordon's R. 437. And the same principle of
protecting subsequent bond fide purchasers of choses in. action,
&c., against latent outstanding equities, of which they hadno
notice, was maintained in this court in the case of Bayley r.
Greenleaf, 7 Wheat. 46. That was an outstanding vendors
lien, set up to defeat a deed made to trustees for the benefit of
the vendees' creditors. The court held it to be a secret Trust;
and although to be preferred to any other subsequent equity unconnected with a legal advantage, or equitable advantage, -hich
gives a superior claim to the legal title, still, it nmust be postponed
to a subsequent equal'equity connected with such advantage.
The rule was distinctly asserted by Chancellor Kent, in 1l$17,
in Mlurray v. Lylburn, 2 Johns. C. C. 442, before the question
was settled in England, and before this court discussed it, which
was in 1822. And the same principle was applied by the court
of appeals of Virginia, in the case of Moore v. Holconibe, 3
Leigh's R. 597, in 1832
Secondly. There is no satisfactory evidence, as we apprehend,
tb establish the fact that a sulicient consideration was paid by
Judson to *Williams for the assignment on which the bill is
founded, to authorize Judson to set it up, and thereby to postpone Corcoran, who paid a full price, as did those under whom
he claims; yet, as these objections depend on facts peculiar to
this cause, we deem it uselc-s to critically investigate them, as
the decree below dismissing the bill was clearly proper, on the
first and merely legal ground.

616

SUPREME COURT.
Lewis v. Bell.

It is ordered that the decree be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

M ARY LEwis, ADMINISTRATRIX OF STEPHEN J. LEWIS, DECEASED,
APPELLANT, V. EDWARD R. BELL, ASSIGNEE OF I. BELL, JUNIOR.
Where a claimant upon the government of Brazil assigned his claim to a creditor soon
after the transaction occurred which gave rise to the claim, and the assignment appeard to have been made upon good consideration, the assignee was entitled to
receive the proceeds of the award of the commissioners. ,The assignee took meas-

ures, immediately after the assignment, to protect his rights.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the District of Columbia, holden in and for Washington
county.
The case is stated in theI opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Chilton and Mr. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Bradley, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The subject-matter in dispute in this case is a sum of money
in the hands of the secretary of the treasury, which had been
awarded to the appellant by the commissioner appointed under
the act of congress to adjust claims under the treaty betweer the
United States and Brazil. Stephen J. Lewis, deceased, is admitted to have been the original owner of the claim. He was
owner of one fifth of the brig Caspian, which was illegally seized
by the Braziliarr squadron, in October, 1827, and condemned.
Lewis was on board at the time, and was robbed of his baggage
and money to the extent of some four thousand dollars. The
whole amount awarded on these claims of Lewis, was $11,551.
Isaac Bell, senior, the father of the appellee, had an assignment of this claim from Lewis; by deed of assignment, dated
November, 1828.
The claim was prosecuted to its final recovery in 1852, by
Isaac Bell. But having in the meanwhile lost or mislaid his

