SUPREME

COURT.

The Propeller Monticello v. Mollison.

opinion, and which were certffied to this court for its opinion,
agreeably to the act of congress in such case made and provided,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is
the opinion of this court that the first question certified by the
circuit court in this case must be answered in the negative, to
wit: That upon a true construction of the revenue laws of
the United States, the additional duties of 20 per centum, which
have been levied and collected by and paid to the defendant, as
collector of the port of New York, at the port of New York, as
stated in his answer, under and by virtue of the 8th section of
the act entitled "an act for reducing the duties on imports, and
for other purposes," passed July 30, in the year 1846, were not
to be treated as penalties, and one moiety thereof divided between and paid in equal proportions to and among the collector,
naval officer, and surveyor of the port of New York, holding
said officers at the time of the levying, collection, and payment
thereof, in the said port of New York, as claimed by the plaintiffs in their bill in this cause.
And this court is further of opinion that, as the decision of
the first question in the negative necessarily disposes of the
case, it is unnecessary to consider and respond to the other
questions certified; whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so certified to the said circuit
court

THE

PROPELLER MONTICELLO, JOHN WILSON, MASTER
CLAIMANT, APPELLANT, V. GILBERT MOLLISON.

AND

In a case of collision upon Lake Huron, between a propeller and a schooner, ,he evidence shows that the propeller was in fault.
The fact that the libellants had received satisfaction from the insurers, for the vessel
destroyed, famished no good ground of defence for the respondent.

Tais was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the northern district of New York.
It was a case of collision, in September, 1850, upon Lak6
Huron, between a propeller called Monticello, and a schooner
called The Northwestern, by which the schooner and her cargo
were entirely lost.
In April, 1851, Mollison, the owner of the schooner, libelled
the propeller, then lying in the port of Buffalo. Wilson, the
master and claimant of the propeller, answered the libel, and
much testimony was taken on both sides. In May. 1852, the

DECEMBER

TERM, 1854.

153

The Propeller Monticello v. Mollison.

district judge decreed that the libellant should receive the sum
of $6,000, as the value of the schooner,.and the further sum of
$150, as the value of the salt which constituted the cargo. The
case being carried, by appeal, to the circuit court, the deeree was
affirmed in September, 1853. The master of the Propeller appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Gillet, for the appellant, and by Mr.
Grant,for the appellee.
Almost all-the arguments of counsel were founded upon their
different versions of the evidence; and as the substance of this
is given in the opinion of the court, the reporter has concluded
to omit the views taken of it by the respective counsel.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee in this case filed his iibel in the district court for
the northern district of New York, against the steam-propeller
Monticello, in a cause of collision.
The libel sets forth that the libellant is owner of the schooner Northwestern; that on the 15th of September, 1850, the
schooner, with a cargo of salt, was on her voyage from the port
of Oswego, in New York, to ihe port of Chicago, in Illinois;
that about half-past eight o'clock in the evening, being about
ten or twelve miles from Presque Isle, on Lake Huron, and
about six miles from land, sailing with a fair breeze, on the
course of west-northwest, (the wind being south-southwest,)
the sparks from the chimney of the propeller were seen some six
miles off. In order to give a "wide berth" to the approaching
vessel, the schooner ported her helm and ran her course a point
more to the north. That when from 'four to six miles apart, a
bright light was placed in a conspicuous position on the schooner,
and the vessel held steadily to her course, so that the approaching propeller might not mistake the course of the schooner.
That the propeller exhibited no light, except that occasionally
thrown out ly the sparks from her chimney. That some time
after, the master of the schooner, by close observation, discovered that the propeller was directly forward of the beam of the
schooner, close upon her, and steering directly for her. He then
hailed the steamboat, and ordered his helm aport, but too late
to avoid the collision, which caused the schooner to sink immediately.
The answer admits that the lights of the schooner were seen
when five miles off, and states that the steamboat was on a
course of east-southeast, and continued on that course for a short
time after seeing the light of the schooner; but that, as the
schooner appeared "far in shore," in order to give her lake room,

154

SUPREME COURT.
The Propeller Monticello v. Mollison.

the propeller bore away into the lake about three quarters of a
point; and that the collision was occasioned by the fault of the
schooner, in not keeping her course.
The answer. also alleges, as a defence, that the schooner and
cargo had been insured and abandoned to the insurers, who
accepted the abandonment, and had paid the insurance to the
libellant, prior.to the filing of the libel.
1. On the first point, as to the party to whom the fault of this
collision is to be imputed, we entirely concur with tfe judgment
of the district and circuit courts. The testimony of libellant's
witnesses is consistent, and, connected with the admissions of
the answer and of respondent's witnesses, is conclusive to show
that the fault was in the steamboat. The master of the steamboat was not on board on that occasion; and the testimony of
the mate, who had command, and by whose obliquity of vision,
or want of judgment, the steamboat was so dexterously brought
into collision with the schooner, attempts to excuse his conduct
by a statement of facts disproved by all the other witnesses, and
demonstrably incorrect. He admits that he saw the bright light
of the schooner five miles off. He asserts that the schooner's
.light appeared on the starboard bow of the steamer; this is
clearly a mistake in his statement of facts, or, if true, was occasioned by the steamer turning out of her course.
The theory of mere negligence, or inattention, will hardly account for this collision. Defendant's witnesses admit that they
at one time mistook the bright light of the schooner for the
Presque Isle light-house; and it is evident that, laboring under
this delusion, they must have steered directly for the schooner's
light, not dis.covering their mistake till it was too late to remedy
it. The night, though dark, had some starlight, by which the
land, some six miles off, showed itself above the horizon. With
a channel and room to pass as wide as the lake, with the bright
light of the schooner full in view for more than twenty minutes
before the collision, it cannot be accounted for, except by the
hypothesis of the actie cooperation of the officers.of the steamboat, caused by a delusion, under which they continued to labor
in consequence of a reckless inattention to their duty.
It is contended, on behalf of respondent, that the fault of the
collision is to be attributed to the schooner, because she did not
keep on her course and leave the steamboat to pass as best she
could, according to th rules laid down by this court in the case
of St. John v. Paine, 10 How. 557. The answer to this argument is obvious. When the master of the schooner first observed
that he -as sailing on a line with the steamboat, and ordered
his helm to be ported, so as to avoid being on the track of the
approaching Yessel, they were seven or eight miles or more apart,

")ECEMBER TER.M, 1854.

155

The Propeller Monticello v. Mollison.

not in the narrow channel, but in the wide lake. -There was no
immediate danger of a collision. The order was one of extreme
caution; it: did not tend to produce-the collision for when the
light of the schooner was first seen,-five miles off, the schooner
was sailing steadily on her course of northwest by north, making
an angle of one point with the course of the steamer, and continued on that course till she was run down and-sunk.,
The rules laid down by this court for avoiding collision, should
be strictly adhered to, so that conflicting orders may not produce
the collision instead of avoiding it. But in the present case,
when. the schooner changed her -course, the vessels were in no
danger of collision, being many miles apart in an open sea.
They had not approached to that, point of danger.wvhich br'ngs
and makes their obserthe rules of the admiralty into exercise,
vance necessary, in order to avoid a collision. When the steamer
first discovered the light of the schooner, she was sailing steadily
on the course adopted, and conitinued to do so, till the collision
was produced by the perverse dexterity of the helmsman of the
steamboat.
2. The defence set up in the answer, that the libelldnts have
received satisfaction from the insurers, cannot avail the respondin the nature
of a
wager
Thethird
contract
with
thewich
insurer
ent.
between
parties,
with
theis respasser
has no
concern.
The insurer does not stand in the relation of a joint trespasser,
so that satisfaction accepted from him shall be a release of
others. This is a doctrine well established at common law and
received in courts of admiralty. See Yates v. Whyte, 4 Bing. N.
0. 272; Phillips on Insurance, 2163; Abbott on Shipping, 318.
It is true, that in courts of common law the injured party
alone can sue for a trespass, as the damages are not legally
can sue
an equitable
claimant,
assignable;
and ifofthere
only in
the
name
the be
injured
party: whereas,
in he
admiralty,
the person equitably entitled may sue in his own name: But
the same reasons why the
wrongdoer cannot be allowed to set
up as a defence the equities between the insurer and insredequally apply in both courts, The respondent is not presumed
tknow, or bound ioinquire, as to the relative equities of parties claiming the damages. He is bound to make satisfaction
for the injury he has done. When he has once made it
to she
injured party, he cannot be made liable to another suit, at the
instance of any merely equitable claimant. If notified of such
before payment, he may compel the claimants to interaplead;
claim otherwise,
in making reparation for a wrong done, he
need look no further than to the party injured. If others clainm
a right
stuand in his place, they must intervene in proper time,
or lose their recourse to the respondendn

SUPREME COURT.
The Propeller Monticello v. Mollison.

The insurer may at all times intervene in courts of admiralty,
if he has the equitable right to the whole or any part of the
damages. Under the 34th rule in admiralty of this court, he
may be allowed to intervene, and become the dontinus litis,
where he can show an abandonment, which devests the original
claimant of all interest. See 1 Curtis's R. 340. Under the 43d
rule also he may intervene after decree, and claim the damages
recovered, by showing that he is equitably entitled to them. But
with all this the respondent has no concern, nor can he defend
himself by setting up these equities of others, unless he can
show that he has made satisfaction to the party justly entitled
to receive the damages.
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.
1Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
In the cases of The Propeller Monticello v. Mollison, in admiralty, and in those of Clapp v. The City of Providence, and of
The Bank of Tennessee v. Horn, I dissent from the opinion and
decision of this court; not upon the merits of those cases, but
upon the ground of a want of jurisdiction in this court to adjudicate them. The reasons for my objection to the jurisdiction
of this court, in cases like those above mentioned, have been so
frequently assigned in preceding instances before this court, that
a repetition of them, on the present occasion, is deemed superfluous. My purpose is simply to maintain my own consistency
in adhering to convictions which are in nowise weakened.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the northern district of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs, and interest until
paid, at the same rate per annum that similar judgments bear in
the courts of the State of New York.

