DECEMIBER TERM, 1854.

591

Ayres et al. v. Carver et al.

nihilo nill fit shall be reversed, and this court shall affirm that
something can arise from nothing, it passes my powers to perceive how any right, legal or equitable, can spring from this
contract with Herbert, thus declared to be void, and that alleged
right, too, existing in one who, in legal intendment is Herbert
himself. If the contract -with Herbert is valid, then the judgment upon the attachment should be enforced to its fAll extent;
if it was invalid, then in the same extent it should be repudiated;
but this court, while it condemns the contract itself, attempts to
deduce from it and to enforce consequences which necessarily
imply its validity, and which can result only from regarding it
as valid. In this aspect of the decision, I cannot but regard it
as injurious to the appellees, as irreconcilable with sound principles of logic or of law, as irreconcilable with itself. I forbear
here any remark as to the periods at which the grounds of
defence in the court below came into existence, or were tangible
and practicable, or as to the manner in which they were relied
on, in opposition to the demand against the appellee. These are
matters entirely distinct fom the essential mer.ts of those
grounds of defence, and any examination of them seems unnecessary, or rather to be excluded, by the decision here, upon
the character of the defence itself.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the southern dLtrict of Mississil. - -, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof; it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit
court, for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to
the opinion of this court, and as to law and justice shall appertain.

ELI

AYREs AND

THOMAS N.

NILES, -COMPLAINANTS ON CROSS-

BILL, APPELLANTS, V. HIRAM CARVER, JOSEPH W.

JAMES BROWN, JACOB TnoMPsoN, JOHN P.

MATTHEWS,

JONES, WILLIAM

H.

DuK:, AND JOHN D. BRuDORD.
Where a complainant filed a bill in chancery against numerous defendants, soven of
whom were selected by the court to represent the rest; and after these seven had
answered the bill, two of them filed a cross-bill against the original complainant, and
also agninst all their co-defendants, an appeal from a decree dismissing this cross.
bill, will not lie to this court. It must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

592

SUPREME COURT.
Ayres et al. v. Carver et al.

The two defendants who filed the cross-bill against the original complainant, and also
against their co-defendants, claim the land in dispute by a paramount tide. The
complainant has nothing to do with a dispute between the defendants, nor can this
properly be considered a cross-bill.
A decree dismissing this bill cannot be considered as .afinal decree in the suit. It will
come ap for review, like any other interlocutory proceeding, if upon -a Im decision
the case should be brought up, by appeal, to this court.

THis Wet an appeal from the district court of the United State,_
for vie northern district of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Adams for the appellants, and by .Mr.
Cushing, for the appellees.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the district court of the
United States for the northern district of Mississippi.
A bill was filed by -irmm Carver, of the State of Alabama,
against Joseph W. Matthews, of Mississippi, and some two
hundred others, part of them residents of this State, part of Tennessee, but most of them without any residence mentioned, setting forth the treaty made with the Chickasaw tribe of Indians,
at Pontotoc Creek, in 1832, confirmed in 1833, by which said
tribe ceded to the governmen.t all their lands east of the Mississippi River; and also a treaty with the same tribe, 24th May,
1834, confirmed 1st July, the same year, modifying the provisions of the first one; which treaties provided for certain reservations of land to be granted in fee to the heads of Indian families;
and for the survey and sale of the residue, as in the case of other
public lands, with this difference: that the lands remaining undisposed of at public sale, should be liable to private entry, at
one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre for the first year thereafter; at one dollar the second; at fifty cents the third; at
twenty-five cents the fourth, and thereafter at twelve and a half
cents per acre.
The bill further states, that down to January, 1843, there remained subject to private entry, at twelve and a half cents per
acre, several tracts of land particularly set forth in a schedule
annexed; and that on that day the complainant offered to purchase, at the land-office, all the lands d6scribed in the aforesaid
schedule, at the price of twelve ahd a half cents per acre; and,
for this purpose, made an appication to A. J. Edmondson, the
register of said land-office, but that the said register illegally
refused to permit him to make the said purchase; that he also
tendered to J. F. Wray, the receiver, the amount of the purchasemoney for the trsrr he had thus applied to enter, but that he
refused to receive the money or issue the proper certificates.

DECE21BER

TERM, 1854.

593

Ayres et al.. v. Carver et al.

The complainant further states, that since his application, as
above set forth, the register and receiver have permitted the-defendants to enter arTd purchase the several tracts, in sections and
subdivisions, and at the times mentioned in the schedule above
referred to ; and charging that the said defendants had notice of
the rights and equities of the complainant at the time.
The conplainant then prays to make all the defendants, before
enumerated, parties to the bill, and as they are very numerous,
that the court will designate a small pc-ion of them to represent
the whole body, and upon whom personal service of the subpcnna.
shall be made. And further, that the several entries and purchases made by th defendants be set aside; and that the.complainant be permitted to enter and purchase the several tracts at
the price of twelve and a half cents per acre, or that the defendants be d€ireed to convey the same to the complainant, and to
deliver up the possession.
It appears from the record, the court, on the application of the
complainant, ordered that the cause should proceed against seven
of the defendants, James Brown, Jacob Thompson, John P. Jones,
William II Duke, John D. Bradford, Thomas N. Niles, and Eli
Ayres, and upon whom process was afterwards served, and who
appeared in said cause.
Separate answers were put in by these defendants, setting
forth the entry and purchase at private sale from the register and
receiver of the several portions of the tract claimed by each of
them, and also patents for the same from the government. To
which answers replications were filed.
It further appears from the record, that at this stage of the
proceedings, Thomas N. Niles and Eli Ayres, two of the defendants, fied a cross-bill against the complainant, Carver, and all
of thc r numerous co-defendants, setting forth the substance of
the original bill, and then charging that they had obtained a title
to the several tracts in controversy, or to portions of them, long
prior to the title claimed by their co-defendants, setting forth also
particularly the source of title. They pray that this cross-bill
may be heeird at the same time with the original bill of Carver,
and that any claim he may set up to the several tracts of land
claimed by them in the cross-bill, may be set aside and annulled;
also, that the other defendants to the cross-bill be required to
produce their patents to any and all of the lands claimed by
them, that they may be cancelled, and that possession be delivered to the complainants.
It further appears from the record, that afterwards the complainants moved the court that the five co-defendants, who had
appeared in the original bill, and the complainant in that bill, be
made defendants to represent the other defendants mentioned,
50

594

SUPREME

COURT.

Ayres et al. v. Carver et al.

as they are so numerous as to render it inconvenient to make. all
of them parties to the suit; which motion was granted.
These defendants were afterwards personally served with
process, or-appeared in the cause, and demurred to the cross-bill;
which demurrer was sustained by the court, and the bill dismissed.
The case is now beforer us on an appeal from this decree.
It will have been seen from the brief reference to the original
bill in this case, that Carver, the complainant, sought to establish
an equitable title to large tracts of the public lands, which had
been laid off in townships, ranges, and sections, situate in the
State of Mississippi; having offered to comply, as he alleges,
with the law providing for the entry and purchase at private
sale, of the several tracts, but Was prevented from making the
entries and from obtaining the necessary certificates, by the illegal and unwarranted acts of the register and receiver at the
land-office. The bill is filed against the defendants, who had
subsequently entered and paid for the land, obtained the necessary
certificates, and upon which patents have since been issued.
The defendants are alleged to be very numerous, and for this
reason the court below dispensed with the necessity of making
all of them parties ; and directed that their interests should be
represented by some seven of them, on whom process was
directed to be served.
Without intending to express any definitive opinion in this
matter, we must say that it is difficult to see any interest or
estate in common among these several defendants, that would
authorize the rights of the absent parties to be represented in
the litigation by those upon whom process has been served, and
who have appeared to defend the suit. Their title to the land
claimed by the complainant is separate and independent, without any thing in common, it would seem, that could have the
efet to make a decree against one binding upon the others, or
even require them to join in the defence. Smith et al. v. Swormstedt et al. 16 How. 288. We do not intend, however, to pursue this branch of the case.
As it respects the cross-bill, it may be proper to observe that
the matters sought to be brought into the controversy between
the complainants in that, and their co-defendants, do not seem
to heve any connection with the matters in controversy -with
the complainant in the original bill. Nor is it perceived that he
has any interest or concern in that controversy. These two
complainants in the cross-bill set up a title to the lands in dispute, which, they insist, is paramount to that of their codefendants, and seek to obtain a decree to that effect, and to
have the possession delivered to them. This is a litigation
exclusively between these parties, and with which the complain-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

595

Ayres et al. v. Carver et al.

ant in the original bill should not be embarrassed, or the record
incumbered. The same matter has been set up in their answer
to the original bill, against the equitable title claimed by-the
complainant, presenting the only issue in which he is interested,
and upon which the questions between them can be heard and
determined.
A cross-bill is brought by a defendant in a suit against the
plaintiff in the same suit, or against other defendants in the
same suit, or against both, touching the matters in question in
the original bill. It is brought either to obtain a discovery of
facts, in aid of the defence to the original bill, or to obtain full
and complete relief to all parties, as to the matters charged in
the original"bill.
It should not introduce new and distinct matters not embraced in the original bill, as they cannot be properly examined
in that suit, but constitute the subject-matter of an original,
independent suit. The cross-bill is auxiliary to the proceeding
in the original suit, and a dependency upon it.
It is said by Lord Hardwicke, that both the original and crossbill constitute but one suit, so intimately are they connected
together. Field v. Schieffelin, 7 . Ch. R. 252.
The office of a cross-bill has been very fully discussed at, this
term, by Mr. Justice Curtis, in the case of Victoire Shields et al.
v. Barrow; and I need not, therefore, pursue it, but-refer only to
that opinion for the true doctrine on the subject.
It is manifest, from this brief reference to the doctrine, that
'any decision or decree in the proceedings upon the cross-bill is
not a final decree in the suit, and, therefore, not the subject of
an appeal to this court, under the 22d section of the judiciary
act- The decree, whether maintaining or dismissing the bill,
disposzs of a proceeding simply incidental to the principal matter in litigation, and can only be reviewed on an appeal from
the final decree disposing of the whole case. That appeal
brings up all the proceedings for reexamination, when the party
aggrieved by any determiuation in respect to the cross-bill has
the opportunity t6 review it, as in the case of any other interlocutory proceeding in the cause.
For these reasons, the appeal in this case must be dismissed,
for want of jurisdiction, and the case remanded to the court
below.
Mr. Justi-e CATRON concurred in the judgment, but dissented from the reasoning.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
In this instance, the b 1I and cross-bill are but one suit, and

596

SUPREME COURT.
Hays v. The Pacific Mail Steam-ship Company.

ought regularly to have been heard at the same time; and if
an appeal was prosecuted from the decree to this court, by any
party who supposed himself to be aggrieved, the whole suit
would necessarily be brought up.
Here the, cross-bill was heard and dismissed, pending the
original suit of which it was part. The decree pronounced
was partial; and as no appeal lies from any but a final decree,
and this decree not being final, the consequence is, that this
court has no jurisdiction to examine the merits presented and
insist6d on in the argument. All that we can properly do is
to dismiss the appeal, because it brought lip nothing. Now, as
to the matters discussed in the opinion just delivered, founded
on a copy of the proceedings had below, and filed in this court,
I can only say tha I have no opinion in regard to them, never
having even r~ad the record further than to ascertain that this
court had no jurisdiction in the supposed case presented to us:
I therefore concur in the judgment that the case shall be dismissed, for want of jurisdiction, without going further.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the northern

district of M\'ississippi, and was argued by counsel.

On con-

sideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and de-

creed by this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby
dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

JOHN C. HAYs, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE PACIFIC MAIL
STEAM-SHIP COMPANY.
The acts of congress require that every vessel shall be registered by the collector of
the district in which is the port nearest to the place where her owner or owners
reside. The name of this port must be painted on her stern, in large letters ;
and every bill of sale of her must be recorded in the office where she is registered.
Where a company, incorporated by New York, (all the stockholders being residents of
that State,) owned vessels which were employed in the transportation of passengers,
&c., between New York and San Francisco, in California, and between San Francisco and different ports in the territory of Oregon ; all of which vessels were
ocean steam-ships, and duly registered in New York ; that they remained in California no longer than was necessary to land their paqsengers and freight, and prepare for the next voyage ; these vessels are not liable to .sessment and taxation
under the laws of California and authorities of San Francisco.
They were there but temporarily engaged in lawful trade and commerce, with their
shus at the home port, where the vessels belonged, and where the owners were
liable to be taxed for the capital investcd, and where the taxes had been paid.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the district

