426

SUPREME

COURT.

The City of Boston v. Lecraw.

THE

CITY

OF

BOSTO.,,

PLAINTIFF
LEcRAw.

IN

ERROR, V. DAVID M

By the old laws of -Massachusetts, a littoral proprietor of land owned down to lowwater mark; subject, however, to the condition that, until he occupied the space
between high and low-water mark the public had a right to use it for the purposes
of navigation.
The city of Boston had the same right as other littoral proprietors, and consequently had the control over a dock which was situated between two wharves ;
one end of the dock being at high-water mark, and the other at low-water mark.
It had, therefore, the right to construct a sewer for the purpose of carrying off the
drainage from the high water, to the low-water en.d of the dock.
The city had not dedicated the dock to public uses by merely abstaining from any
control over it. The principles which regulate a dedication to public uses, ex-

amined.
Although the presumption of such a dedication is a question of fact for the jury,

vet it is for the court to instruct them what facts, if proved, will justify spch a
presumption.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Rhode Island.
It was a suit originally commenced in the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Massachusetts, and removed
into the circuit court of Rhode Island, upon the ground that
Mr. Justice Curtis was so connected with the plaintiff as to
render it, in his opinion, improper for him to sit in the trial
of the suit; and that Judge Sprague was an inhabitant of
Boston, and concerned ininterest in this cause, so as to render
it, in his opinion, improper for him to sit in the trial thereof. It
was therefore ordered, (both judges concurring,) that an authenticated copy of the record and all proceedings in the suit, should
be certified to the circuit court of Rhode Island.
Lecraw, a citizen of New Hampshire, as surviving partner of
the firm of Lecraw and Perkins, brought an action on the case
against the city of Boston, for erecting a public nuisance, which
was specially injurious to the plaintiff.
Lecraw was in possession of a wharf estate,'situated in the
southerly side of Boston. His wharf extended to the sea, and
was entirely unobstructed at the end seaward. Along the
southerly side of the wharf there was a dock about thirty feet
wide, extending from the end of Summer-street to the sea. In
July, 1849, the board of health ordered a drain, or sewer, to be
constructed, from one end of the dock to the other, so as to
carry the drainage out to deep water. It was constructed as
follows: The obstruction complained -of, as appeared by the
evidence, was a drain composed of plank and timber, 460 feet
long, eight feet wide, and eleven feet high to top of piles, and
resting upon the surface of the mud in the dock, which ex-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
The City of Bostoni v. Lecrsw.

tended fion the head of the dock to within
feet of the
foot of the same, and at the end of 'said drain was se-,enteen
feet tom the plaintiff's wharf, on the north, and thirty-two feet
fromthe other wharf, on the south.
I
For this obstruction to the approach of vessels' to his wharf,
Lecraw brought his action,' and upon the trial of the cause the
jury found a 'verdict in his favor, assessing the damages at
โข 9280.
The bill of exceptions taken by the defendant included all
the evidence and the numerous prayers offered to the court,,'
which are sufficiently noticed in the opinion of this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Ames and.M"r. Chandler,for'the
plaintiff in error, and by 31r. Tilton and llIr. Dzurant,-for the
defendant.
The briefs on both sides were very voluminous, and it is not
possible to do more than state the positions assumed by the
counsel respectively.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error endeavored to establish
these positions as Imatters of law, or m-aters of'fact 'deduced
from the evidence.
Each one of them was sustained by
numerous references.
1. The whole territory of Boston was' originally granted
to and held by the town, which made grants thereof from
time to time to, such persons and on such conditions as it
deemed expedient.
2. The city of Boston as successdi of the town,'now owns
the fee in this dock, and the title to the estates on each side of
it is derived from the town.
The wharf in possession of: the plaintiff as lessee, is kno~m
as the Bull wharf.
The' wharf on *the other side of the dock is known as the
Price wharf.
The'title of both wharves is derived from the town of Boston.
3. It thus appears, that the dock between these wharves 'has
been recognized by all parties, including the plaintiffs lessor,
as the property of, and under the control- of, the city of Boiton.
4."This place has been used for the purposes of drainage'
beyond the memory of man, the common sewer in 'Summerstreet entering at the head of it, and emptying its contents
therein.
5, The town has always 'exercised contr6l 6ver this dock.
Upon these positions the counsel for the plaintiff in error
made-the following points-:
1. It was error in the court below, to rule that the plaintiff
was entitled to recover of the city of Boston, damage- for the

428

SUPREME

COURT.

The City of Boston v. Lecraw.

act of the board of health of said eity. The action was not
properly brought, and cannot be maintained against the defend.
ant corporation.
2. The structure, which the plaintiff alleges to be a public
nuisance in a public dock, was erected by the board of health
in the performance of a duty imposed upon them by law. The
act was performed in good faith, for the preservation and protection of the public health, without negligence, and was lawful
in itself. Such proceeding, if prejudicial to the interest or use
which any individual may have before enjoyed in said dock,
affords no ground of action, but is daninum absque injuria, and
the judgment and decree of the board of health, not being
impeached, are conclusive of the necessity of the structure.
3. If the locus was a public dock, slip, or way, which all the
public had a right to use as a public dock, this fact did not vest
in the owners of the adjoining wharves or flats any right whatsoever to use it for any other purpose than as a passage-way
in boats or vessels to and from other portions of Summer-street,
in common with other citizens of the commonwealth; and the
plaintiff having no peculiar right, easement, or privilege therein,
has no claim for damages in a civil suit, for any obstruction
thereof.
4. Inasmuch as the plaintiff below set up a dedication of the
locus as a public dock, the nature of the dedication, if any, and
the character of the dock thence derived, were questions of fact
for the jury, and they should have been cautioned, that, considering "the rights of the owners of flats in the same as long as
the owner leaves such flats onen and uninclosed, under the law
of Massachusetts, there must be some plain and explicit declaration by the owner of flats that he doth dedicate the same to
public use, as a public dock, quay, or waterway, in order that
the jury should find that the same were thus dedicated, and that
the use of the same for passage or laying of vessels is no evidence of claim of such flats, as a public dock, quay, or way, by the
public, and is no evidence of their acceptance of such dedication."
5. The selectmen of Boston, acting under the express authority of law, as early as 1710, authorized the construction of a
common sewer in Summer-street. In 1728, they authorized
Vassall, and the deacons of the old church, to lay a drain through
this street, "down to the sea." In 1804, the sewer was relaid
" through Summer-street to the sea," and the expense was apportioned upon the inhabitants benefited, by the selectmen,
according to law.
At various periods between 1710 and the present time, the
existence of this drain has been recognized, and its repair ordered, and, -in 1840, it was relaid by the city authorities.

DECEMBER T.ER,

1854.

. 429

The City of Boston v. Lecraw.

The counsel for, the defendant in error made the following
points, each one of which, together with its numerous subdivisions, was sustained by a great number of authorities, which
there is not room to transcribe: L The first point made by the plaintiffs in error, namely, that
the city are not liable, as a corporation, for the acts complained
of, is not open to them upon this record. No such point was
raised or exception taken before the circuit court; on the contraqy, it was admitted that the city were responsible if the acts
were illegal.
IL As the case was submitted to the jury, three facts were to
be found by them, and are now to be taken as established.
1. The dock was a public dock.
2. The structure complained of was a public nuisance.
3. The defendant in error suffered peculiar and special damages, not common to, and much greater than the public in
general suffered.
The case of the defendant in error rests upon this foundation.
The dock was a public dock, which he had the right to use; the
city destroyed that right by. a public nuisance.
The city now set up the justification that their own common
sewer, which was exclusively under their own control, created a
nuisance in this dock, and that, by wak of abating the nuisance,
they built a drain through the dock, which destroyed it.
For this act they say there is no redress.
To this justification the following objections axe made: 1. It was not in the power of the State to authorize any city
to do the acts complained of, without making compensation.
2. The powers given to the city, (Rev. Stat. ch. 21, ยง 9,) are
"to destroy, remove, or prevent nuisances." -Under this dele-

gated authority to exercise the sovereign right of the State to
regulate by health and police measures the use of property, the
city seek to exercise another sovereign right of the State, namely,
the power to authorize erections within navigable waters.
3. No such power as is claimed was ever intended to be given
to the board of health, or to be exercised in the manner in which
it was exercised.
The power given is to "remove, abate, and prevent nuisances."
Under.this power, the general right is claimed to destroy property and erect and maintain permanent structures, without
making compensation, and in this particular case, the right to
erect and mairtain a public nuisance in the harbor of Boston.
4. The extraordinary powers claimed for the board of health
would be contrary to the urovisions of the constitution of Massachusetts.
5. But if the act of laying the drain were not unlawful, or the

SUPREME

COURT.

The City of Boston v. Lecraw.

subject of an indictment, still, the city must make compensation,
because the damages were not consequential merely, but were
directly occasioned by the destruction of a legal right.
III. The court properly ruled that the action could be sustained if the dock was a public duck, and the use of it was
destroyed by a public nuisance, which cut off all access to the
sea, and occasioned to the defendant in error peculiar and special damages, not common to and much greater than the public
in general suffered.
IV. The court did rule that the use of the flats for passage
or dockage was not sufficient evidence of dedication.
The fact of dedication may be proved in various ways; no
particular declaration of the owner is requisite, and no particular form is necessary. Godfrey v. City of Alton, 12 Illinois, 29,
35; Kennedy's Executors v. Jones, 11 Ala. 63, 82; Le Clercq
v. Gallipolis, 6 Hammond, 354; Best on Presumptions, ยง 101.
V. The plaintiffs in error apparently claim the .right to create
the public nuisance in question, upon two other distinct grounds
of private right or title.
1. That they had the right to place a drain there, because the
dock had been dedicated to the city as a place for drainage.
2. That the dock had been laid out as a street, and the city,
therefore, had the right to put a drain there, although they had
never made the street.
Upon the question of a right to Place a drain in the dock.
1. The rights of drainage claimed by the city cannot be maintained, because, if any right of drainage into the dock existed
before 1834, it was a right of individuals, not of the town or
city. Before 1834, the town or city had no rights in, or control
over, the sewers and drains. They were wholly built and owned
by individuals. For the history of the legislation upon this
subject, see Boston v. Shaw, 1 Met. 130.
2. If the city had any right to use the dock for an ancient
drain, they had no right to enlarge and change the character and
structure of the drain. Cotton v. Pocasset Manufacturing Co.
13 Met. 429.
3. If the dock had been dedicated as a place for the discharge
of a drain, that would not justify taking the dock as a place for
the drain itself, nor creating a public nuisance in it.
Lpon the rights claimed to place a drain in the dock, on the
ground that it was a street.
1. The defence now set up by the city, that the place in dispute was a street, and that the city, therefore, had a right to
construct a drain, cannot be sustained, because the jury have
Found it to lie a public dock.
2. Nor could the city, in the court below, defend themselves
upon this ground.

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

431

The City of Bo3ton v. Lecraw.

3. By the laws of Massachusetts, a highway or street cannot
be laid out over the flats between high-water mark and lowwater mark. Commonwealth v. Coombs, 2 Mass.'489; Hood
v. Dighton Bridge, 3 lb. 263; Arundel v. McCulloch, 10 lb. 70;
Kean v. Stetson, 5 Pick. 492; Commonwealth v. Charlestown,
1 lb. 180 ; Charlestown v. Middlesex, 3 Met. 202 ; Henshaw v.
Hunting, 9 Cush. 203.
This was conceded by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error
to be the law of Massachusetts, and they even sought to extend
it to the case of a dock. Ruling 1, p. 78.
4. As the structure was a public nuisance, such a use of the
flats can in no view of the case be justified. By Parker, C. J.,
Commonwealth v. Charlestown, 1 Pick. 180, 184; Brower v.
The Mayor, &c. of New York, 3 Barb. 254, 258.
6. As the structure cut off all access to the sea, it cannot be
justified under a right to make a street or any other right. Frink
v. Lawrence, 20 Conn. 117; Shaw et al. v. Crawford, 10 Jobns.
236; Cox v. The State, 3 Blackford, 193.
6. If a street had been made to the water, that very act gave
the public the right to use the water and the dock beyond the
street. Godfrey v. City of Alton, 12 Illinois, 29, 36, 37; Rowan's Executors V. "Portland, 8'B. Monroe, 232, 242; Kennedys
Heirs v. Covington, 8"Dana, 50, 61; City of Louisville v. Bank
of the United States, 3 B. Monroe, 138, 144, 157.
7. If the city had the right to build a street, it would be because the -public convenience ana necessity required a public
street for tra .1.
The orders of the mayor and aldermen to make a .drain
through the dock, cannot be justified on the ground that the
city had the right to make a different structure, namely, a street.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, a citizen of New Hampshire, instituted this suit against the city of Boston, charging it with the erection of a public nuisance 'which was specially injurious to the
plaintiffE The declaration contains seven counts. As the jury,
under the instructions given by the court gave a verdict for the
plaintiff below on the last two only, it will be unnecessary to
notice the others, or the points of law applicable to them.
These counts set forth, in substance, that in the year 1849 the
plaintiff and a partner, since deceased, carried on the business
of buying and selling wood and coal in Boston, and were in
possession of a wharf known as the Bull wharf; that the dock
forming the southerly boundary of said wharf, and extending
from Summer-street wharf, was a part of the harbor of Boston,

432

SUPREME COURT.
The City of Boston v. Lecraw.

and a public dock, slip, or way, navigable by vessels, and over
which the waters of the sea ebbed and flowed, and by reason
thereof the plaintiff ought to have been allowed to pass and repass as over a navigable highway with boats and vessels, over
and through said dock from the wharf by him possessed to the
channel of the sea; that defendant had erected piles and a
drain in the dock, to the destruction of the navigation therein,
and the special injury of the plaintiff.
A congeries of points or prayers of instruction, exceeding
thirty in number, and covering nearly as many folios, were submitted to the court, some of which were given as prayed for,
some with "qualifications," and many refused.
If a judge, in answering such a mass of hypothetical and verbose propositions, should occasionally contradict himself, or fail
into an error; or if the jury, instead of being instructed in law,
should be confused and misled, it may be considered the legitimate result of such a practice. We do not think it necessary
therefore, to examine particularly each one of this labyrinth of
propositions; but, after a brief history of the title of the parties,
and the admitted facts of the case bearing on its merits, we will
state the law as applicable to them, and thus be enabled to test
the correctness of the charge of the court in the instructions
given or refused.
The original charters to the Plymouth company of that part
of the territory which afterwards constituted the colony of Massachusetts, conferred on them not only the property in the land,
but all the "franchises, loyalties, liberties, &c., and the requisite
civil and political powers for the government of the colony."
By the common law of England, the right of littoral proprietors, bounding on public navigable waters, extended to highwater mark only. But by an ancient ordinance, usually denominated the ordinance of 1641, ยง 3, it is declared, " that in all
creeks, coves, and other places about and upon salt water, where
the sea ebbs and flows, the proprietor of the land adjoining shall
have propriety to the low-water mark, where the sea doth not
ebb above a hundred rods, and not more wheresoever it ebbs
further: Provided, that such proprietors shall not by this liberty
have power to stop or hinder the passage of boats or other vessels in or through any sea, creeks, or coves, to other men's houses
or lands."
This is the foundation of what nway be called the common
law of Massachusetts on this subject. By it the grantee of
land bounding on navigable waters where the tide ebbs and
flows, acquires a legal right and a vested interest in the soil of
the shore between high and low-water mark, and not a mere in-

DECEMBER .TERM, .1854.
The City of Boston v. Lecraw.

dulgence or gratuitous license, given without consideration, and
revocable at the pleasure of the grantor. See Austin v. Carter,
1 Mlass. Rep. 231, and Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 71.
As a consequence of such ownership, it is ruled that the proprietor of the land bounding on tide-waters has such a propriety in the flats to low-water mark, 'that he may maintain trespass, quare clausumfregit, against one who shall enter and cut
down piles placed there by the owner, with a view to build a
wharf or otherwise inclose the flats. But the right of the littoral proprietor under the ordinance has always been subject to
this nile: that until he shall build upon his flats or inclose them,
and whilst they are covered with the sea, all other persons have
the right to-use them for the ordinary purposes of navigation;
so long as the owner of the flats permits the sea to flow over
them, the individual right of property in the soit beneath does
not restrain or abridge the public right. 7 Cush. 75. This
property is also subject to certain restrictions in its use, so
that the State, in the exercise of its sovereign power of police
for the protection of public harbors, and to prevent encroachments therein, may establish lines, and restrain and limit this
power of the owner over his own property.
The whole territory now occupied by the city of Boston was
originally granted to and held by the town, which*made grants
thereof from time to time, to such persons, and on such conditions as it deemed expedient; and the city of Boston, as successor to the town, continues to own such portions of the original territory as have* not been sold or otherwise disposed of.
But, while it acknowledged the rights of its vendees of lands
adjoining the shore to wharf out opposite their respective lots,
by virtue of the police power exercised by it over the harbor, it
superi itended and defined the limits within which the owner
should exercise his rights.
In 1683, "the selectmen of Boston staked out a highway for
the town's use, on the southerly side of the land belonging to
John Gill, decesed, (under whom the plaintiff claims,) being
thirty feet- in width, from the town corner of said Gill's wharf,
next the sea." This is the street since called Summer-street.
They laid also another street, "near the shore, on the proprietor's
land, fifty feet towards the sea-shore." But they ordered, at the
same time, "that the flats and lands between the said highway
and the sea be granted to the proprietors of the land, which are
abutters on the way, in equal portion to their fronts."
Summer-street, as laid out, ended at high-water mark, and
has not yet been extended, nor have the city made any erectiofig
on their land between high and low water, previous to 1850; but
the public right of navigation oyer it has been exercised up to
VOL. XVII.

37

434

SUPREME COURT.
The City of Boston v. Lecraw.

t~le foot of Summer-street. The drains and sewers from that
street, and others connected with it, have hitherto been made to
discharge their contents at that point. In course of time, however, as the city increased, this drainage increased also, to such
an extent as to become. pestilential, and a very great nuisance
to the neighborhood. In consequence thereof, the city of Boston has been twice (in 1848 and 1849) indicted for the nuistnce,
and sentenced to pay a fine. Since that time, the mayor and
aldermen, acting as the board of health, have directed the drains
or -sewers to be continued out, on the land of the city opposite
Summer-street, to low-water mark. This is the first attempt by
the city to reclaim this land from the sea, and use it for their
own benefit, and constitutes the erection which is now the subject of complaint. The sewers are not made to discharge their
contents on the plaintiff's land, but into the sea. No property
of the plaintiff has been taken for the public use; -nor does-he
in these counts, on which the verdict was obtained, claim any
private right of way over the land of defendants, but states his
damage to have accrued by a public nuisance, specially injurious to his public right of navigable way over the lands of the
defendant.
That the plaintiff 'had, in common with the rest of the world,
a right to navigate over the land belonging to the city, on wbich
the erections complained of were made, is not disputed. Nor
is the title of the city to the land so used, unless they have
granted it away, or otherwise disposed of it, a subject of dispute
in the case. Those under -whom the plaintiff claims, as owners
of the property adjoining Summer-street, have exercised their
right of dominion over the land to low-water mark by covering
it with a wharf, many years ago, which is called Bull's wharf.
And those who adjoin the street on the other side, have in the
same manner exercised their right by erecting a wharf called
Price's wharf. The property of the city being but thirty feet
wide, and lying between these two wharves, was thus, by the
accidents of its form and position, converted into a dock or receptacle for vessels, without any act of the owners of the land.
A dock is defined by philologists, according to the American
use of the term, to be "the space between wharves." No dock
or sli. has been made by the city or people of Boston on their
land, either for their own use, or that of any other extraneous or
indefinite public. So long as they did not elect to exercise their
dominion over this part of the shore, the public right of navigation continued. It was a right defeasible at the will of the
owner of the subjacent land. it was a natural right, not derived
from any grant, real or presumed, originating with the owner
of the soil. But the adjoiners, by the use of this right of navi-

DECEMBER TERM. 1854.

435

The City of Boston v. Lecraw.

gation in connection with their wharves, claim a right to enjoy
the benefit of defendant's, property as a'dock for their wharves,
and thus conveit it to their private use, under color of a public
right.
In order to effect this, it is contended that the people of
Boston, by not exercising their right of reclamation, and by
using their property according to their own pleasure, have dedicated it to the public, or world in general, as distinguished from
the public, or people of Boston, and 'have abandoned the full
dominion which they once might have exercised over it.
The people of Boston, who owned this land as their common
and private property, acted through a corporation, whose corporate grants -and licenses are matters of record. Their own use
of their own property for their own benefit cannot be called a
dedication of it to any other public of wider extent. Whether
it Was called "town dock" or "public doek," (which were used
as synonymous terms,) it would furnish no ground to presume
that they had parted with their right to govern and use it in the
manner most beneficial to the people- or public of the town or

city.

The principles of law on which a presumption of the dedication of private property to public use are found&l, are correctly
stated (3- Stark. Ev. 1203) to be: "That the law will not presume any man's acts to be illegal, and will therefore attribute
to long continued use and enjoyment, by the public, of a right
of way or other privilege in or over the lands of another, to a
legal rather than an illegal origin; and will ascribe long possession which cannot otherwise be accounted for, to a legal title:
upon a reasonable principle and very 'forcible presumption, that
the acquiescence in such enjoyment, for a long period, by those
whose interest it was to interrupt it, arose from the knowledge
and consciousness on their part that the enjoyment was rightful,
and could not be disturbed; and also on consideration of the
hardship which would accrue to parties, if after long possession,
and -when time had robbed them of the means of proof, their
titles were to be subjected to a rigorous examination."
It is -evident that these principles can have no application to
the present case. The exercise of the. public right of navigation
over the soil of defendant is fully accounted for without any
presumption of grant or dedication by the owners. The public
enjoyed this highway of nature by a title reaching far before
the advent of the Pilgrims, and paramount to any grant to them
or by them, but by the law the enjoyment of this public right
was made defeasible by the owner of the land. Till he reclaimed
his land, the public needed no grant or dedication by him, in
order to their enjoyment of the right of navigation over it. The

SUPREME COURT.
The City of Boston v. Lecraw.

owner was not bound to exercise his right within a given time,
or forfeit it. 'A man cannot lose the title to his lands by leaving
them in their natural state without improvement, or forfeit them
by non-user. See Butz v. Ihrie, 1 Rawle, 218.
So long as the city chose to leave their land unreclaimed from
the sea, they could not hinder the public navigation over it
when covered with water, and could not, therefore, be properly
said to acquiesce in that which they could not hinder. Nor
could a grant or dedication of a right of way over their land be
presumed in favor of the public, who enjoyed it under a different
and paramount tenure. The public right has existed and been
exercised for thousands of years, but is not hostile to the &fendants, though defeasible at their will. It resembles the case of
Rex v. Hudson, 2 Strange, 909, where a dedication of land as
a public highway was claimed by proof of sixty years' use;
but the defendant produced a lease of the way for fifty-six
years, and the court decided that no presumption of a dedication could arise during the lease, for the owner could not deny
their right to use it, and there could be no presumption from
his acquiescence.
It is true that the presumption of a dedication is one of fact,
and not an artificial inference of mere law, to be made by the
court, yet it is an inference which the court advise the jury to
make upon proof of certain facts. It is the duty of the court to
state what facts, if proved, will justify such a presumption. To
instruct the jury that certain facts are not "sufficient" evidence
on which to presume a dedication, without informing them
what facts would constitute sufficient evidence for that purpose,
is devolving on them the decision of both law and fact, and permitting them to dispose of men's property at their discretion,
by presuming grants without a particle of evidence to authorize
such presumption.
The counts on which the jury have assessed the damages in
this case claim no other right of highway over the lands of the
defendant, save the public right of navigation, nor has the evidence shown that he is entitled to any other. The title of the
defendants to the land was not disputed. The court ought,
therefore, to have instructed the jury that the public right of
navigation over the land of defendant was defeasible; that the
owners had a right to reclaim their land by wharfing out or
making erections thereon beneficial to themselves; that tlee
was no evidence in the case whatever by which the jury could
presum6 that the city or people of Boston had dedicated their
land to the use of some other public besides themselves; that it
was, consequently, not only the right but the duty of the authorities of the city to extend their sewers to low-water mark, for the

DECEMBER

TERM,

1854.

437

Bruce etal. v.. The United States.
purpose of removing 'a nuisance injurious to the health of the
citizens; and having done so on their own land, the damage
absque injuria, and he was
to the plaintiff, if any, was daMtnn
not entitled to recover. The record shows that these or equivalent instructions were prayed by the counsel of defendant, and
refused by the court.
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore reversed, and a
venire de nevo awarded.
MNr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transerpt of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and the
same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be and
the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court with
directions to award a venire facias de noro.

.AIoS

J. BRUCE AND FRANKLIN STEELE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. THE UNITED STATES.

A treasury transcript was admissible in evidence, in a suit brought by the United
States against their debtor, although authenticated coiies of the receipts which the
debtor had given for money did not accompany the trafiscript. If an item was
charged against him which the debtor disputed. it was in his power to obtain the
originalvoucher; and if it appeared on tie fwe of the neoe:nr that the iteni charged
did not come into his hands in the regular couree of business. the transcript would
3ot be evidence to sustain that charge.

ie cases upon this point examined.
was not necessary for the United States to produce the commission of the debtor,
or a certified copy of-it. The surety was estopped from denying it.
Where there were two consecutive commissions and tvo se:s of sureties. tie latter
set wre responsible for all money which remained in the hands of the principal at
the expiration of the first commission.. If it was tisapplied dnri.ti- the first term
of office, it was incumbent upon.the second set of snreties to show that it was so.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United Sta.tcs for the district of _\Mi*souri.
The facts in the case are stated inI tei opinion of the court.
it was argued by _1r. Vinton, for the plaintifl in error, and
by .ii/r- Cashin;,(attorney-general.) for the *United States.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.delivered the opinion of the court,
37*

