DECEMBER

TERM,

1854.

437

Bruce etal. v.. The United States.
purpose of removing 'a nuisance injurious to the health of the
citizens; and having done so on their own land, the damage
absque injuria, and he was
to the plaintiff, if any, was daMtnn
not entitled to recover. The record shows that these or equivalent instructions were prayed by the counsel of defendant, and
refused by the court.
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore reversed, and a
venire de nevo awarded.
MNr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transerpt of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and the
same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be and
the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court with
directions to award a venire facias de noro.

.AIoS

J. BRUCE AND FRANKLIN STEELE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. THE UNITED STATES.

A treasury transcript was admissible in evidence, in a suit brought by the United
States against their debtor, although authenticated coiies of the receipts which the
debtor had given for money did not accompany the trafiscript. If an item was
charged against him which the debtor disputed. it was in his power to obtain the
originalvoucher; and if it appeared on tie fwe of the neoe:nr that the iteni charged
did not come into his hands in the regular couree of business. the transcript would
3ot be evidence to sustain that charge.

ie cases upon this point examined.
was not necessary for the United States to produce the commission of the debtor,
or a certified copy of-it. The surety was estopped from denying it.
Where there were two consecutive commissions and tvo se:s of sureties. tie latter
set wre responsible for all money which remained in the hands of the principal at
the expiration of the first commission.. If it was tisapplied dnri.ti- the first term
of office, it was incumbent upon.the second set of snreties to show that it was so.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United Sta.tcs for the district of _\Mi*souri.
The facts in the case are stated inI tei opinion of the court.
it was argued by _1r. Vinton, for the plaintifl in error, and
by .ii/r- Cashin;,(attorney-general.) for the *United States.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.delivered the opinion of the court,
37*

SUPREME COURT.
Bruce et al. v. The United States.

The writ of error, in this case, is brought upon a judgment
obtained by the United States in the circuit court for the district
of Missouri.
It appears that Bruce, one of the plaintiffs in error, was
appointed agent for the Sioux tribe of Indians, in 1844, and
gave the bond on which this suit is brought, for the faithful
performance of his official duty. Franklin Steele, the other
plaintiff in error, and John Atchison, were sureties in the bond;
and Atchison having died, pending the suit in the circuit court,
it abated as to him, and the judgment in favor of the United
States was rendered against the plaintiffs in error. The breach
assigned is, that there was a balance in Bruce's hands, on the
1st of July, 1848, of $10,191.69, which he refused to turn over
and pay to the United States, when required to do so.
Bruce had held the same appointment for four years, before
he received the one of which we are now speaking, and his
account with government begins in May, 1840.
At the trial, the United States offered in evidence a transcript
from *he books of the treasury department, stating the account
of Bruce from the time of his first appointment. According to
this account, the balance above mentioned was due to the United
States, but Bruce claimed various additional credits, amounting
altogether to $6,931.68, which had been disallowed or suspended
by the accounting officers, as appears by the closing account,
usually called the statement of differences.
The United States further offered the transcript of a letter
from the second auditor, whose duty it was to settle this account, addressed to Bruce, stating the balance due from him,
according to the settlement in the auditor's office, and inclosing
him the statement .of differences above mentioned, and directing
him to turn over to his successor in office the balance of the
public money in his hands; ind also offered the deposition of
his successor, stating that he had made the demand, but that
.Bruce had failed to comply with it.
The defendants, therefore, objected to the admissibility of this
evidence, but the court overruled the objection, and this constitutes the first exception in the case.
The objection is stated in general terms, and applies to the
whole evidence offered by the United States, without pointing
out the particular ground of the objection But we understand
from the argument here, that the defendants in the court below'
supposed that the transcript from the books of the treasury was
not, of itself, evidence that he received the .several sums of
money charged against him, and that authenticated copiies of
his receipts ought to have accompanied the transcript.
But this objection cannot be maintained. The act of 1797

DECEMBER TERM, 18"54.

439

Bruce et ai. v. The United States.

provides, that a transcri~t from the books and proceedings of
the treasury, certified by the register, and authenticated under
the seal of the department, shall be admitted in evidence. And
the act of MIarch 3, 1817, directs that all accounts whatever in
which the United Statet are concerned, either as debtors or
creditors, shall be settled and adjusted in the treasury department. The act makes the auditors and comptrollers, by whom
the accounts in the war and navy departments are settled, officers of the treasury department. And the provision above mentioned in the act of 1797, in relation to transcripts from the
books and proceedings in the treasury, is extended to the "accounts of the war and navy departments; and the certificates
of the auditors respectively charged with the settlement of-these
accounts, are to have the same eithct as that directed in the
former act of congress to be signed by the register.
The accounts in question belonged- to the war department,
during the period of Bruce's agency, and were adjusted and
certified by the proper officers. There could, therefore. be no
objection to the evidence on that score.
Nor do we see how any valid objection can be -nade to the
items charged against Bruce in the transcript. The books of
thi. accounting officer necessarily contain the charges against,
as well as the credits of, the disbursing officer. The accounts
could not be adjusted on the books in any other manner; and
the transcript or, in other words, the copy of the entire account"
as it stands on the bobks, (which must include debits as well
as credits,) are made evidence by the law. Nor do we see
any reason for restricting the words of the acts of congress
within narrower limits than the words plainly imply. The accounts are adjusted by public sworn officers, bound to do equal
justice to the government and the individual. They are records
of the proper departments, and always open to the inspection
of the party interested. And, after all, the transcript is only
prind facie evidence; and, if the party disputes any of the
charges against him, it is in his power, by a proper aipplication
to the court, supported by stlfficient evidence, to obtain the
original vouchers on which he was charged, if necessar - To his
defence, and to show that the debit against him is erroneous.
If, indeed, it appeared on the face of the account that an
item was charged against him which had not conm to his
hands in the regular and ordinary operations of the government, and of which, therefore, the accounting officers could
have no official knowledge, tile transcript would not be evi;
deuce to support that charge But no such debit is found in this
transcript; for, according to the regular and ordinary practice
of the government, in cases of this description, the agent receives

SUPREME COURT.
Bruce et al. v. The United States.

from his predecessor in the office the money and property remaining in his hands; and other funds, which it may be his
duty to disburse, are sometimes sent through the general superintendent at St. Louis, sometimes by a treasury draft, forwarded
directly to himself, and sometimes through the agency of a military or other officer of the government. And these advances
pass through the proper offices of the treasury and war departments, (how through the department of the interior,) and the
agent is charged upon his own receipts and warrants, issued in
his favor.
This appears to have been done in the case before us. Every
payment or advance to him is separately charged, and the time
when it came to his hands, as well as the name of the person
from whom he received it. The copies of his receipts, or of the
4 ouchers for the charge, would -have given him no further information; and the acts of congress above referrei to do not
require them to be annexed to or accompany the account, but,
in plain and unambiguous terms, makes the transcript itself
evidenace.
Cases annlogous to this have, on several occasions, come
before the court, and have all been decided upon the construction of the acts of congress above stated. Smith v. United
States, 5 Pet. 292; Coxe and Dick v. United States, 6 Tb. 202;
and Hoyt v. United States, 10 How. 109, are all in point. And
the cases of the United States v. Buford, 3 Pet 29, and United
States v. Jones, 8 Tb. 376, which are sometimes supposed to
maintain a contrary doctrine, are perfectly consistent with the
other decisions and with the one now given.
For, in the case of the .United States v. Buford, (who-was a
deputy 6ommissary,) the money had been placed in his hands
by Morrison, who was a deputy quartermaster, without authority and contrary to his duty, and the accounting officers refused
to credit it in Morrison's account. Upon application to congress, however, a law was passed authorizing the accounting
officers to allow the credit, upon receiving from Morrison an
assignment to the United States of all his right to the money
mentioned ini the receipt, which he had taken from Buford
when he advanced him the money. Morrison made the assignment accordingly; and thereupon an account was stated on the
books of the treasury, charging Buford as debtor to Morrison
for the amount advanced to him. And a transcript from this
account was offered in evidence. It is set out in the report of
the case, and it is evident that this account was not within the
letter or spirit of the act of congress. It certainly c6dild not
brove the receipt of Buford; for the whole transaction was
outside of the regular operations of the government, and the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

441

Fruce et al. v. The'United States.

accountina officers could not be presumed-to have any official knowledge of the unauthorized transactions between the
parties.
And so, again, as to the case of the United States v. Jones,
who was surety in the bond of an army contractor: The transcript contained charges against the contractor for bills of
exchange, drawn by him and paid to other persons. The court
regarded this operation. as not -within the ordinary mode of
proceeding in the department, and that the accounting officers
could riot be presumed to have any knowledge of the drawing
of those bills, or of their indorsement to others, and thereupon
rejected these items. It wi be seen, therefore, that the cases
of the United States v. Buford and United States v. Jones are
disfingipshable from the present case, as well as from- the other
cases above referred to, and stand on different ground.
Indeed, none of the debits in the transcript appear to have
been disputed by the plaintiffs in error, and no exception was
taken to any one of them. The statement of differences between the accounting officers and Bruce shows that there was
no difference as to the amount vith which he was chargeable.
The difference consisted in a ariety of credits which he
claimed, and which had been suspended or refused at the treasury; and the testimony offered by him, after his objection to"
the transcript, had been overruled, and the document admitted.
in evidence was altogether directed to support the credits he
claimed, and not to impeach any one of the debits against
him.
The circuit court were therefore right in overruling his
objection to the testimony offered by the United States.
We proceed to the next exception.
After the testimony on both sides was closed, the plaintiffs
in error asked for the following instructions to the jury, all of
which were refused, and the direction which follows them
given:" 1. That unless they believe, from the ovidence, that Bruce
was legally appointed and commissioned as such Indian agent,
they will find for defendant, Steele; and they are further instmted that the commission, or a legally certified copy thereof,
is the highest and best evidence thereof.
"42. If the jury find from the evidence that Bruce- was a
defaulter at the time of the execution of the bond sued ori,
they will find for defendant, Steele, to the extent of such preexisting default.
"3. Defendant, Steele, is not liable ior any defalcation existing on the part of Bruce prior to the 29th of August, 1844.
"4. Defendant, Steele, is not liable as the surety of Bruce

SUPREME COURT.
Bruce et al. v. The United States.

for any money received by Bruce before he was sub-Indian
agent
" 5. The original receipts of Bruce, or certified copies of the
originals on file, is the best evidence of any moneys received
by him, and the jury will disregard the transcript of accounts
from the books, unless they believe it'was out of the power of
plaintiff to produce the receipts, or certified copies thereof."
These instructions were all refused, and "the court directed
the jury, that if, when Bruce was reappointed agent, in 1844,
he had moneys in his hands of the United States which he
received as agent under his previous commission, then 'he was
bound to apply and account for such moneys under the second
commission, and his sureties are bound under the bond which
is sued on. But if Bruce had appropriated the moneys received under the previous commission, to his own use, when
this bond was given, then the first set of sureties are responsible for the moneys thus illegally appropriated, and these
defendants are not liable, and the burden of proof is on the
defendants to show' that Bruce had illegally appropriated the
moneys b~for'e the bond sued on was given."
We think the court were right in refusing the prayers, and
in giving this instruction. In relation to the first instruction
asked for, it certainly was not necessary for the government to
produce the commission of Bruce, or a certified copy. The
bond upon which the suit was brought recites that he was
appointed Indian agent, and the obligors in the bond are
therefore estopped from denying it.
And as to the 5th, it is but a repetition of the objection to
the transcript, which we have already disposed of.
And as relates to the 2d, 3d, and 4th, we think the court was
right in refusing them, and giving the instruction as above
stated. When Bruce received his second commission, if any
money or property which he received in his former term of
office still remained in his hands, he was bound to apply and
account for it, under the appointment he then received.
and his sureties are
The terms of the bond clearly require it,
bound for it. It was so much money in his hands to be disbursed and applied under his second appointment. Indeed, if
it were otherwise, the government would have no security for
it. For, if it was not ivasted or misapplied during his first
official term, but still remained in his hands to" lie applied according to his official duty, the sureties in his first bond would
not be liable. For there would in that case be no default or
breach of duty in that term of office; and if afterwards wasted
or misapplied, it would be.a breach of duty in that official term
for which Steele was one of his sureties.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

443

Hendrickson -v. Hinckley

Undoubtedly the sureties in the second term of office are not
responsible for a default committed in his first. But if any
part of the balance now claimed from him was, misapplied
during that period, it was incumbent on the plaintiffs in error to
prove it. No officer, without proof, will be presulned to have
violated his duty; and if Bruce had done so, Steele had a right,
under the opinion of the circuit court, to show it and exonerate
himself to that amount;. but it could not be presumed, merely
because there appears by the accounts to have been a balance
in his hiands at the expiration of his first term.
We see no error in the opinions of the circuit court, and the
judgment must therefore be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court
that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with interest at the same rate
per annum that siruilar judgments bear in the courts of the
State of Missouri.

RICHARD

L HENDRICKSON, COMPLAINANT AND APPELLANT, V.
SAM'UEL L.

HINCKLEY.

A court of equity does not interfere with judgments at law, unless the complainant
has an equitable defence of which he could not avail himself, at law, because it
did not amount to a legal defence, or had a good defence at law which he was
prevented from availing himself of by fraud or accident, unmixed with negligence
of himself or his agents.
Therefore, t bill was properly dismissed where the complainant sought relief from a
judgment at law, fr the following reasons:
1. Where he alleged that he had been defrauded in the sale of the property, for the
purchase of which he gave his notes. The fraud was pleaded at law, and the
verdict against him. Moreover, six years elapsed between the sale and suit, and
n6 effort was made to rescind The contract.
2. Certain verbal promises alleged, to have been made by the agent of the vendor.
These were not admissible in any court to vary a written contract. This defence
was also set up at law, and failed.
3. That certain letters from a co.defendant were read to the jury as admissions.
This ground of relief was also untenable.
4. That certain claims of set-off existed which he purposely abstained fiixi using in
the trial at law. If he voluntarily waived this defence, relying upon a separate
action, he has no right now to ask a court of equity to interfere.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Ohio.
On the 26th of October, 1851, Hendrickson, as survivor of
Hendrickson and Campbe filed a bill hi the United States cir-

