SUPREME

COURT.

Henshaw v. Miller.

an oath as is described in the indictment, being taken before a
collector who had competent authority to administer it, for the
purpose of obtaining an allowance of bounty money, was an
oath which, if wilfully false, would subject the defendant to be
punished as for perjury. And we do not think this question
was so narrowed, by the passage above extracted from the
former indictment, that evidence of an oath required or authofized by any other act besides that of 1813 could not be giveunder that indictment; and we order it to be certified accordingly.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Massachusefis, and on the point or question on which the judges
of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and which
was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of
congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof it is the opinion of this
court that the special plea pleaded by the defendant is a good
plea in bar to the indictment; whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that it be so certified to the
said circuit court.

-JOHN HENSHAW, PLAINTIFF, V. JOHN R.

MILLER, EXECUTOR OF

CHARLES E. MILLER, DECEASED.
Where an action on the case was brought in Virginia, against a person to recover
damages for fraudulently recommending a third party as worthy of credit, whereby
loss was incurred; and after issue joined upon the plea of not guilty, the defendant
died, the action did not survive against the executor, but abated.
The Virginia laws and cases examined.

THis case came up from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Virginia, on a certificate of division
in opinion between the judges thereof.
Henshaw was a citizen of Massachusetts, and brought an
action on the case against Charles E. Miller, in his lifetime, for
fraudulently recommending one Robinson as worthy of credit,
in consequence of which the plaintiff had incurred considerable
loss. After issue joined upon the plea of not guilty, Miller died,
and on motion of the plaintiff a scirefacias was issued for the
purpose of reviving the suit against John R. Miller, his executor.
Upon the return of the scire facias, the executor moved to
quash it, when the judges were divided in opinion whether the

DECEMBER J2ERMI, 1854..
Hebshaw v. Miller.

action survived against the executor, or abated; and the question was certified to this court.
It was submitted, upon printed arguments, by Xr, Heath, for
the plaintiff, and by Ml1r. Ljons and Mr. Stannard, for the
defendant
.Mkr. Heath, for the plaintiff, made the following points: For the plaintiff, Herishaw, it is insisted: That, under the law
of Virginia, an action upon the case founded upon a tort by
which the estate of the plaintiff was diminished or damaged,
may be revived againgt the defendant's personal representative.
That in Virginia, if the form of the action be trespass, or trespass upon the case, and if the loss or damage be merely pecuniary in its nature, and the remedy sought, being pecuniary, is
entirely adequate, then the cause of action survives for or against
the personal representative.
For the common-law doctrine, as modified by the statute 4,
Edward III. ch. 7; Hambly v. Trott, 1 Co-wN 375; Wheatley
v. Lane, 1 Saund. 216, a; 1 Wms. Ex'ors, 668.
For the-state of the law in Virginia on this point: See 1st
vol. Rev. Code, 1819, 390, § 64; Supplement to Rev. Code,
1819, 258, ch. 196; Monroe v. Webbs Ex'ors, 4 Munford,
73; Lee v. Cooke's Ex'or, Gilmer, 331; Code of 1850, 544,

§ 20.

The common-law maxim, actio .personalis vnoritur cun. persona, unmodified by any statute, would undoubtedly apply to
this case. But that rule was so manifestly unjust and unreasonable in its general application, that its operation has been constantly narrowed by statutory regulation, aided by liberal judicial
construction in favor of right, until it is at this day almost
reduced witbin bounds where reason and convenience would
sutain it.
It was irst confined by judicial interpretation to actions ex
delicto, where the acfion sounded. merely in damages. It was
afterwards still further restricted by-the statute 4"Edward III.
ch. 7, de bonis asportatis,which was extended by a wise and
liberal construction to all cases supposed to come within the
reason, though not within the words of the rule. So that this

statute has been construed to extend to "any injury to personal
property, whereby it. has been rendered less beneficial to the
executor, whatever the form of the action may be." Note (1)
Wheatley v. Lane, 1 Saund. 217 ; . Wins. on Ex'ors, 66S.
Under this construction of that statute, in England, the case
under consideration would survive to the executor, That .tatute
is not in force in Virginia, but the enactment contained I Rev.
Cod, 1819, §,64, 390, is founded upon it, and has been. con-

SUPREME COURT.
Henshaw v.

M£iller.

strued in the same equitable manner, to effect justice, by the
courts of Virginia. The case of Monroe v. Webb's Ex'ors, 4
Munf. 73, was an action upon the case against the clerk of a
court, for indorsing credits on an execution, to the injury of
the plaintiff. It is true that case went off on other grounds, but
it was not questioned by the court that the action would lie
against the executor; and the conclusion is irresistible, that it
was admitted on all hands that the cause of action survived.
So, pursuing the same equitable construction, in Lee v. Cooke's
Ex'or, Glmer's Virginia R. 331, it was held, that § 64, ch.
104, 1 Rev. Code, 1819, is an extension of 4th Edw. III. ch. 7,
de bonis asportatis, and that trespass for the mesne profits of
land, recovered in ejectment against A., lies against his
executor.
These authorities show the spirit in which the court of Appeals of Virginia are disposed to construe that remedial statute:
that it has been decided to give it an equitable construction, so
as to extend it to cases coming within the mischief intended to
be prevented. Such is the case at bar. And it is insisted, that
as the law was before the Code of 1850, which rules this case,
the case at bar would have survived against the executor of the
defendant. But the course of legislation, as well as of judicial
construction, has been constantly to i: .row the application of
this technical maxim, Actio personalis, &c., and the act of the
Virginia Assembly, ch. 131, § 20, 544, Code 1850, cuts it up
by the roots, in all actions in respect of property or estate, real
and personal, wherever the action is for a pecuniary or property
injury, as contradistinguished from a personal injury, which can
never be adequately compensated in damages. That enactment
is as follows: "An action of trespass, or trespass on the case,
may be maintained by or against a personal representative, for
the taking or carrying away any goods, or for the waste or destruction of, or damage to, any estate of, by his decedent."
Code, 1850, 544, § 20. This act is founded upon, and is an
extension of the English statute, 3 and 4 Win. IV. ch. 42, § 2,
which, among other things, enacts: " That an action of trespass, or trespass on the case, as the case may be, may be maintained against the executor or administrator of apy person
deceased, for any wrong committed by him in his lifetime to
another, in respect of his property, real or personal."
The case at bar is one where, by the wrongful act of the
defendant, the plaintiff was damaged in his personal estate to
the amount of $3,000. If he was entitled to compensation -out
of the estate of the defendant when alive, why is he not enatitled
to compensation out of the same estate in ne hands of the
defendant's executor? What principle of reason, convenience,

DECEMBER

TER]A 1854.

215

Henshaw v. Miller.
or justice would be violated by affbrding such a remedy ? The
statute of Virginia just cited, plainly intended to afford such d
remedy. The case at bar comes within the very letter of the
statute. But even if the construction were doubtful, surely the
court would adopt that view which so manifestly is essential to
enable the court to do justice between these-parties. The case
of United States v. Daniel, 6 How. 11, has no direct application; that being a queston under the laws of North Carolina.
But the reasoning of that decision is in furtherance of the view
here taken.
The following note of the argument for the defendant is
taken from the bief of _r. Stanard.
On behalf of the defendant, the court is referred to 1 Vim.
Saund. 217 (a), note (1), to show that in England, not only at
common law, but even under the liberal construction given by
their courts to statute 4 Edw. 3, ch. 7, such a case as the present
-would fall fully within the influence of the maxim Actio personalis inoriturcumnpersona;for it is there expressly laid down
"that the statute of Ed-,,,. 3 does not extend to injuries done to
the person or to the freehold of the testator, therefore an executor
or adminisfrator shall not have an action of assault and battery,
false imprisonment, slander, deceit, diverting a watercourse,
obstructing lights, cutting trees, and other actions of the like
ind, for such causes of -action shall die with the person." And
in the United States v. Daniel, 6 How. 13, this court expressly
holds, that: "No action where the plea must be that the testator was not guilty, can lie at common law against the executor,
Upon the face of the record the action arises ex delicto, and all
private criminal injuries or wrongs, as well as all public crimes,
are buried with the offeder." It will, it is supposed, scarcely
be contended, in the face of theso" authorities, that this action
survived against the executor at common law.
Neither, it is submitted, is there any thing in the statute law
of Virginia changing the rule of the common law in this
respect. The only statutes in force, relating to this subject, at
the institution of this suit will be found in the Revised Code
of 1819, vol. 1, 390, § 64, and the Supplement to Revised"
Code, 258, ch. 196; and these statutes continued in force till
the revisal of 1849; when they were substituted in the present
Code of Virginia, (which took. effect on the 1st July, 18-50,)
by the 20th section of chapter 130. See Code of Va., 544,

§ 20.

The first of the above-cited statutes provides, that actions of
trespass for goods taken or carried away in the lifetime of the
testator or intestate, may be maintained against, as well as by
executors, &c.; and in that respect it extends the provisions of the

216

SUPREME

COURT

Henshaw t. Miller.

statute of 4 Edw. III. which gives a remedy only to executors, and
not against them. But, in other respects, its language is much
less comprehensive than that of the English statute, as was remarked by Judge Green, in the case of Thweatt v. Jone., 1
Rand, 331, where he says that: 14Our statute, without any such
title or general words as are found in the title and in the enacting clause of the English statute, gives the action of trespass
for goods taken or carried away, and provides for that case only
substantively, and not oy way of example." And therefore that
eminent jurist doubled whether the statute in question was
susceptible of the broad and liberal construction which had
been given by the English courts to the statute of 4 Edw. IIL.
It was probably to remove the doubt thus expressed by such
high author .ty, that shortly after the report of the case Thweatt
v. Jones, decided in 1823, namely, on 9th March, 1827, the
second of the above-cited acts was passed. Supp't R. C. 258,
ch. 196. That statute provides: " That if -.ny person shall
commit a trespass, either by injuring or destroying the slaves
or other personal property of another, &c., the action shall survive," and thus establishes by legislative enactment the same
rule which prevailed in England, by judicial construction, under
the common law, as modified the statute of 4 Edw. III. ch. 7.
It certainly did not establish a more liberal rule, unless some
distinction can be drawn between the words "personal propUnder the statute law of Virert y" and " personal estate."
ginia, then, as it stood at the institution of this suit, it is
submitted that the case at bar falls fully within the influence
of Lord Mansfield's judgment, in Hambly v. Trott, Cow. 372,
recognized and acted on by this court in United States v.
Daniel, above cited.
It only re~iains then to inquire whether the 20th section of
the 130th chapter of the Code of Virginia, 544, § 20, which
took effect pending this suit, has made any change in the law
affecting the question under consideration, supposing for the
present, for the sake of the argument, that that 20th section rules
this case. A very slight examination of that section will, it is submitted, be sufficient to show it was designed to have, and can
have, no such effect, even in a case to which it is clearly applicable. It was compiled from the Virginia acts of 1819 and 1827,
above cited; and the English statute of 3 and 4 Will. IV. ch. 42,
§ 2, (see Eng. Statutes at Large, vol. 13, p. 141,) and was designed to extend the remedies given to and against executors
to cases of injury or damage to real as well as to personal
estate, which former were not embraced either by 4 Edw. III. in
England, or by the Virginia statute, as will appear from Harris
v. Crenshaw, 3 Rand. 14, in which it was held that "An action

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

217

Henshaw v. Miller.

of trespass quare clausum fieg-it, is not converted into an action
de bnis asjportatis,by an allegation in the declaration that the
trees cut were carried away, and theref6re -the rule actio personalis moritur cum persona applies to such an aiction"
But
it was never designed by the 2Oth section of Code. of 1850, to
abolish all distinction between personal torts and injuries and
damage to property or estate, whether real or personal, between
actions ex delicto and actions ex contractu, or to provide that
because, in some sense, a man may be said to be injured or
damaged in his estate or means of livelihood by an assault and
battery or by slanderous words spoken, therefore actions of
assault and battery, or actions of slander, shall survive, for -or
against an executor or administrator. Upon this point, also, it
is submitted the case of the United States v. Daniel is a dhect
authority for the statute of North Carolina, relied upon to sustain the action in that case, 1 Rev. Stat. N. C. ch. 2, § 10,
expressly provided, among other things, that "no action of trespass in the .case, &c., brought to recover damages done to property, real or personal, should abate by death," &c.; and yet this
court held that the statute above cited did not affect the question presented and passed upon in that case. Neither, it is
submitted, does the 20th section of 130th chapter of the Code
of Virginia affect the question arising -inthis case, unless the
term "estate," used in the one statute, can be distinguished
from the terms "property, real or personal," employed in the
other.
It will be insisted, therefore, on behalf of the defendant, that
this court should certify to the circuit court that this action, in
the form in which it is prosecuted, does not survive against the
execator of the defendant.
Mr.Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before this court upon a certificate of
division in opinion between the judges of the circuit court of the
United States for the eastern district of Virginia.
The facts of this case, and the question of law arising thereon,
upon which the judges were divided, are shown in the following

-statement :-

John Henshaw, the plaintiff in the circuit court, instituted in
that court an action on the case against Charles E. Mliller, to
recover of him damages for fraudulently recommending to the
plaintiff, by letter, one Porter Robinson as a person v.'brthy of
confidence, and thereby inducing the plaintiff to makd sale on
credit t1o the said Robinson of a considerable amount of merchandise, when the'defendant knew that Robinson was univor.
thy of credit, and intended fraudulently to dece,ve the plaintilil
VOL. xvii.
.4
19

218

SUPREME COURT.
Henshaw v. Miller.

who, infact, had been deceived by the recommendation given
by the defendant to Robinson, and upon the faith thereof had
made sales to him, the whole amount whereof had been lost.
In this case, after issue joined upon the plea of not guilty, and
after several attempts at a trial of the cause, rendered fruitless
by disagreement amongst the jury, the defendant departed this
life, and on the motion of the plaintiff a writ of scirefacias was
awarded him to revive the suit against John R. Miller, the executor of the original defendant.
Upon the return of the scire facias executed, the executor
moved the court to quash the process. This motion was continued until the May term of the court, 1853, when, upon the
argument of the motion to quash the scire facias, the question
occurred whether the action survived against the executor of
the original defendant, or abated by the death of the latter; and
opinions of the judges being opposed on this question, at the
request of the counsel for the defendant it was ordered, that the
division be certified to the supreme court at its next session.
In considering the question presented by the certificate of
division in the circuit court, we must adopt for our guidance the
following principle, namely, that this question is to be determined by the rule of the common law with respect to the revival
of suits, except so far as that rule has been modified, either by
restriction or enlargement, by the statutory provisions of the
Virginia laws.
To the principle just mentioned we are bound to adhere, for
the following causes :By an ordinance of the Virginia convention, passed on the 3d
of July, 1776, it was declared: " That the common law of England, all statutes or adts of parliament made in aid of the common law prior to the fourth year of the reign of James I., and
which are of a general nature and not local to that kingdom,
together with the several acts of the general assembly of this
colony now in force, so far as the same may consist with the
several ordinances, declarations, and resolutions of the general
convention, shall be the rule of decision, and shall be in full
force until the same shall be altered by the legislative power of
his colony."
At a subsequent period, namely, on the 27th of December,
1792, the legislature of Virginia, by an act of that date, after
reciting the ordinance above mentioned, declared and enacted
as follows, namely: "Sec. 2. That whereas the good people of
this commonwealth may be ensnared by an -ignorance of acts
of parliament, which have never been published in any collection of the laws, and it hath been thought advisable by the general assembly during their present session, specially to enact

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

219

Henshaw v. Miller.

such of the said statutes as to them appear worthy of adoption,
and do not already make a part of the public code of the laws
of Virginia." " Sec. S. Be it therefore enacted by the general
asseihbly of Virginia, that so much of the above-recited ordinance as relates to any statute or act of parliament shall be and
the same i.hereby repealed;'and that no such statute or act of
parliament shall have any force or authority within this commonwealth." These provisions are followed by savings -with
respect to rights arising under any of the above-mentioned statutes, and as to any crimes committed against them before this
repeal, and also of the benefit of all writs, remedial or judicial,
which might have been legally obtained or sued out -of any
court, or the clerk's office of any court, of the commonwealth,
prior to the commencement of the statute.
These two enactments have been continued in force, and will
be found to be reenacted in the revisal of 1819, vol. 1, chapters
38 and 40.
The statutes, therefore, of 4 Fiw. IIL. ch. 7, or of 3 and 4
Will. IV., or any other English statute as such, cannot govern
this case, nor in anywise influeacp its decision, except so far as
by parity the courts of Virginia may have applied the interpretation of those statutes by the English courts to similar provisions, if such there be, in the laws of Virginia.
The maxim of the common law is "actio -persozzalismoritur
cumpersona," and as this maxim is recognized both in England
and in Virginia, the interpretation of it in the former country
becomes pertinent to its exposition or application here. In
,England it has been expounded to exclude all torts when the
action is in form ex delicto, for the recovery of damages, and the
plea not guilty. That in case of injury to the person, whether
by assault, battery, false imprisonment, slander, or otherwise, if
either party who received or committed the injury die, no action
can be supported either by or against the executors or other personal representatives. 1 Saund. 217, n. 1; 2 M. and Sel. 408.
And so express and strict have been the applications of this
maxim of the common law by the English judges, as to have
established'the rule, that for the breach of a lromise to marry,
although the action is in form ex contractu, yet the cause of action being in its nature personal, the executor of the party to
whom the promise was made cannot sue.
And again, that for the breach of the implied promise of an
attorney to investigate the title to a freehold estate, the executor
of the purchaser cannot sue without stating that the testator
had sustained some actual damage. Vide 4 Moore, 532; 2 B.
and B. 102, and 2 Al. and Sel., before mentioned. This has
been ruled even under the alleged relaxation of the -common-

SUPREME

COURT.

Henshaw v. Miller.

law maxim in virtue of the statutes of 4 Edw. II cap. 7, and 3
and 4 Will. IV. cap. 42. By the English courts it has been
also ruled, that although the statutes which have conferred upon
executors the right to maintain actions in certain cases arising
ex delicto, do not limit that right to instances of a literal asportation of the goods or assets, yet they confer the right of action
upon the executor-in instances solely of actual injury to personal
property, whereby that property has been rendered less beneficial
to the executor. 2 AL and Sel. 416.
Let us see how far the common-law maxim has been modified
in Virginia, either by express statutory language or by judicial
construction.
By the 38th section of chapter 128, vol. 1 of the Revised Code
of 1819, it is provided: "That where any personal action or
suit in equity is now or shall be depending in any court of this
Commonwealth, and either of the parties shall die before verdict
rendered or final decree be had, such action or suit shall not
abate, if the same were originally maintainable by or against
an executor or administrator, but the plaintiff; or if he be dead,
his executor or administrator, or the sheriff, sergeant, or other
curator of the decedent's estate, shall have a scirefacias against
the defendant; or if he be dead, against his executor, administrator, sheriff, sergeant, or other curator of his estate, to show
cause generally, why such action or suit shall not be proceeded
in to a final judgment or decree."
This section of the statute provides merely against the abatement of actions at law or of suits in equity by the death of
parties, as a matter of course, but it gives no further description
of actions or suits than by reference to such designation of them
and their capacity for revival as may be deducible either from
the common law or by some statutory regulation.
By the 64th section of chapter 104, vol. 1, 390, of the same
code, it is declared: "That actions of trespass may be maintained by or against executors or administrators, for any goods
taken or carried away in the lifetime of the testator or intestate,
and that the damages recovered shall be in the one case for the
benefit of the estate, and in the other out of the assets."
This provision of the Virginia statute, in so far as it authorizes an action against the personal representative as well as in
his favor, is unquestionably an extension of the statute of Edward
H1L, which confers the right of action upon the executor or administrator, but does not authorize an action against him. But,
although the former statute is certainly an extension of the latter,
with respect to the parties for or against whom the right of
action is given, it has been doubted, and upon very high authority upon the point, whether with respect to the class of

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

Henshaw v. 'Miller.

subjects to which the right of action is authoried, the statute
of Virginia does not operate a material restriction upon the provision of the English statute. The statute of Edward IlL is
thus entitled: "Executors shall have an action'of trespass for
a wrong done to the testator," and reciting "that in time's past
executors have not had actions for a trespass done to their testators, as of goods and chattels carried away-in their life, and
so such trespasses have hitherto remained unpunished." It is
enacted, that the executors in such cases shall have an action
against the trespassers, ;ind recover their damages in like manner
as they whose executors they be should have had if they were
in life."
In the interpretation of this statute, the courts in England
have ruled, that the right conferred on the executor io maintain
trespass for a wrong done to the testator, must, with reference
to the language of the times when the statute was passed,
signify any wrong; and that the instance put, namely: "as of the
goods and chatels of the same testatrs carried away in their
life," was put in the statte only as an instance or illustration,
of limitingtothe
to injuries t personal property,
and by
notway
as restrictive
theright
single
or particular form of injury;
and that the statute must be consted t extend to every description of injury to personal property by which it has been
rendered less beneficial to the executor, so that the executor may
support trespass or trover, case for .afalse return to final process,
and case ot debt for an escape. Ld. Raym. 973.
The provision of the statute of Virginia by which the right of
action by or agah,otthe personal representative as to tortsis con.
ferred, is introduced by no preamble or declaration by which
any object or purpose beyond its, literal terms may be implied.
It is a simple section of the statute concerning wills, intestacy,
and distribution, and clearly defines the single instance in which
trespass may be maintained by the personal representative; the
instance of "goods taken or carried away in the lifetime of the
testator or intestate ;" no other species of trespass or wrong is
enumerated or alluded to. Fide I Rev. Co. of 1819, § 64, 390.
In reference to this section, and in comparing it with the
statute 4 Edw. lit, it has been remarked by Green, Justice, in the
supreme court of Virginia, that in the construction of the latter
statute, "1it has been decided that the word trespass, as it was
then understood, embraced all cases of tort; that the word
wrong in the title is general, and that the words ' as of the goods,'
were inserted only by way of example, so as to confine the
remedy to cases in which the wrong affected the goods and
chattels. But our statute, without any such title or general
words as are found in the title and in the enacting clause of
190

222

SUPREME COURT.
Henshaw v. Miller.

the English statute, gives the action of trespass for goods taken
and carried away, and provides for that case only substantively,
and not by way of example. 'ide Thweat's Administrator v.
Jones's Administrator, 1 Randolph, 331."
But this 64th section would seem to have received a more explicit and definitive interpretation by the decision of the supreme
court of Virginia in the case of Harris v. Crenshaw, reported
in the 3d of Randolph, 14. That was an action of trespass
quare clausumfregit, in which there was a verdict and judgment
in favor of the defendant who died, and whose representative
was made a party by consent. The case was carried by appeal
as is the practice in Virginia, at law as well as in equity, to
the supreme court by the plaintiff, upon exceptions taken to
instructions from the judge at nisi prius. In delivering the
opinion of the court, Tucker, President, says: " This is nothing
more than an ordinary action of trespass qgare elausumfregsit. The
allegation that the trees were cut and carried away, is always
inserted in the declaration when it is intended to be proved. It did
not convert the action into an action of trespass de bonis asportatis,
and take it out of the rule actiopersonalis,4 c. If the defendant had
died before verdict, the writ would have abated, and the plaintiff
would have been deprived of damages if he had sustained any.
But there being a verdict and judgment against him, by which
he may be hereafter affected in some other controversy respectng the premises, he has a right to reverse that judgment if he
can, and was entitled to a. scire facias against the personal
representative of thd appellee." Then in commenting upon the
exceptions to the instructions from the judge at nisi prius, the
court proceeds thus: "The second instruction of 'he judge
was therefore erroneous, and the judgment is to be re- ersed and
the verdict set aside; and as by the .death of the appellee the
appeal abated here, and there can be no prosecution of the suit
in the court below, it coming within the rule before stated, that
is to say, the rule of the common law, actio personalis,4.c., it is
to be abated here, and the proceedings certified to the court
below."
By this decision of the supreme court of Virginia, the following positions must be taken as having been affirmed : 1. That by the rule of the common law the right of action
founded upon torts of any and every description terminated with
the life of either participant in"such tort. That this maxim or
rule of the common law governed all causes of action arising
ex delicto in Virginia, except so far as it may have been modified by statute.
2. That the provision of the statute of Virginia, authorizing
actions for or against executors and administrators, for torts

DECEMBER TERM, -1854.

223

Hensbaw "v.Miller.

done or suffered by those whom they represent, limits those
actions to instances which are essentially or rather directly cases
of trespass de bonis as ortatis,and cannot be made to embrace
ordinary cases of trespass quare clausumn fregit, or cases of tort
generally, by attempting to connect with them as an incident the
asportation of goods and chattels; much less can it be made
to cover an indirect or consequential injury to the welfare or
prosperity of a'testator or intestate xesulting from a fraud practised upon him.
There is one case from the supreme court of Virginia, cited
by plain'iff, and relied on to sustain the right of action in the
executor. It is the case of Lee v. Cooke's Executor, reported
in Gllmer, 331. This was an action for mesne profits of land
which had been recovered in ejectnent. After issue made up
in the cause, the defendant died. At a subsequent term of the
court the executors appeared by attorney, and the cause was
continued. At the term next -ensuing,the cause was directed to
be struck off the docket, the court thinking that the action
abated by the death of the defendant
This decision was reversed by the supreme court, the latter
tribunal being of the opinion that the case was within the equity
of the 64th sdction of the Virginia statute, cap. 104, 1 Rev. Co.
390, and that- the action, so far at least as regarded the mesne
profits, did not die with the testator. The case is very succinctly
given in the report, and is accompaxiied with no argument showing explicitly the grounds on which it was contested. It may
have been regarded by the supreme court as resting upon an
implied obligation or. assumption to pay or account for profits
ascertained by the judgment in ejectment to belong to the
plaintiff, and therefore, as partaking essentially of the character
of a contract. Or,,if in. any sense the right of action could be
understood as arising from the asportation by the defendant, it
must be by such an acceptation of the phrase as will apply it to
the mesne profits specifically, as being personal property belonging to the plaintiff, and actually injured by the testator of the
defendant in his lifetime. If more than this is sought to be
deduced from the case of Lee v. Cooke's Executor, the attempt
would bring the case in conflict with that of Harris v. Crenshaw,
and with the opinioh of Green, Justice, in the case of Thweatt's
Administrator v. Jones's Administrator, both more recent in point
of time, as well as more explicit in their interpretation alike of
the Engli-h statute and that of Virginia.
In cases analogous to the one before us, or which rather must
be viewed- as identical in their essential features, the principles
hereinbefore deduced from the laws and decisions .of Virginia
have been directly affirmed. Thus, in the case of Coker- -o.

SUPREME

COURT.

Henshaw v. Miller.

Crozier, in the 5th vol. of Alabama Rep. 369, it was ruled, that
in an action on the case for a fraud committed in the exchange
of horses, upon the death of the defendant the suit could not be
revived against his personal representative, the rule of the common law forbidding such revival, and there being no statute of
the State to authorize it.
The case of Read et al. v. Hatch, from the 19th vol. of Pickering's Rep. 47, bears a still stronger resemblance to the case
before us than does that just cited from the supreme court of
Alabama. So exact, indeed, is this resemblance, that it might
with justice be said, of the case of Read v. Hatch, in comparison
with this under our consideration, mutato nomine historianarratur de te. The former was an action for fraudulently recommending a trader as in good credit, by means whereof the plaintiff was induced to sell him goods on credit, and thereby sustained damage. This action was founded on the 7th section of
the 93d chapter of the Revised Statutes of Massachusetts, which
provides that actions of trespass and trespass on the case for
damage done to real or personal estate shall survive. Pending the
suit the defendant died, and the plaintiff moved to cite in his administrator. Shaw, Chief Justice, said, in pronouncing the judginent of the court: "The question whether the plaintiffs can
cite in an administrator, and proceed with their action, depends
on Revised Stats. ch. 93, § 7. It is contended that a false representation, by which one is induced to part with his property by
a sale on credit to an insolvent person, by means of which he is
in danger of losing it, is a damage done to him in respect to
his personal property. But we are of opinion that this would
be a forced construction. If this were the true construction,
then every injury by which one should be subjected to pecuniary
loss would, directly or indirectly, be a damage to his personal
property. But we are of opinion that it must have a more
limited construction, and be confined to damage done to some
specific personal estate of which one 'may be the owner. A
mere fraud or cheat by which one sustains a pecuniary loss,
cannot be regarded as a damage to personal estate. The action
is abated at common law, and, not surviving by force of the
statute, must be deemed to stand abated."
Upon full consideration of the statutes of Virginia, and of the
interpretation placed by the courts of that State upon those
statutes, and of every analogy which can be applied from similar
provisions elsewhere, we are of the opinion, that in the circuit
court this action did not survive the death of the defendant,
but abated upon the occurrence of that event; and we order it
to be certified accordingly to the circuit court, in reply to the
certificate of division.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

225

The United States v. Seaman.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of Virginia, and on the point or question on which the
judges of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion agreeably to the
act of congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof it is the opinion of this
court that this action did not survive against the executor of the
defendant, and that it did abate by the defendant's death.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court
that it be so certified to the said circuit Court.

THE UNITED STATES, ex relatione BEVERLY TUCKtR, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JA G. SEAMAN, SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC PRINTING.
By the act of congress passed on the 26th of August, 1852, ch. 91, it was made the
duty of the superintendent of public printing to receive all matter ordered by congress to be printed, and to deliver it to the public printer or printers.
In 1854, Beverly Tucker was printer to the senate, and 0. A. P. Nicholson, printer
to the house of representatives.
The act further provided, that when any document should be ordered to be printed
by both houses of congress, the entire printing of such document should be done
by the printer of that house which first ordered the printing.
In January, 1854, the commissioner of patents communicated -to the senate that
portion of his Annual Report for 1853, which related to arts and manufactures.;
and on the ensuing day the same communication was made to the house of representatives. Each house having ordered it to be printed, the printing was assigned
to Mr. Tucker.
In March, 1854, the agricultural portion of the report was sent to both houses, anfd
both of them, on the same day, ordered it to be printed. In actual priority of time,
the order of the house was passed first. The printing of it was given to Mr. Nicholson.
A writ of mandamus will not lie from the circuit court of the United States, commanding the superintendent to deliver the printing to Mr. Tucker.
Whether the two p'ortions of the report constituted one document, and which house
passed the order first, were questions requiring the exercise of judgment and discretion in the rublic officer, who had something more than a mere ministerial-duty
to perform.
The cases upon this point examined.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for Washington county.
The question was, whether the Report of the Commissioner
to agriof Patents relatfhig to arts and manufactures and also
culture, which was divided into the two branches, and made to
congress at different times, was, or was not, one document, and

