DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

417

Adms" et al. v. Law.
JAiMES
DAMS, EXECUTOR OF THOMAS LAW, DECEASED, AND
HENRY MAY, ADMINISTRATOR OF EDMUND AND THOMAS LAW,
APPELLANTS, V. JOSEPH ". LAW, BY HIS NEx'r FRIEND,

M

yr RoBINSON.*

Where marriage articles, executed as an autenuptial settlement, recited the intention
of the parties to provide a jointure for the wife, in lieu of dower, and then property
was conveyed to a trustee, for the use of the husband for life, then f r the use of
the wife for life ; and in case of the death of the wife during the lifetime of the
husband, leaving issue of the said marriage, one or more children then living,
then from, and immediately after the decease of the husband, upon trust for the
child or children of the said intended marriage, this does not include grandchildren.
The wife having died before the husband, leaving no child alive, but only grandchildren, thes. did not take.
The cases examined. A motion to amend the decree and mandate of this court, so
as to exclude the grandchildren from the distribution of the fund, as legatees,
upon the ground that they had electdd to renounce their interest under the will of
their grandfather, and claim under the marriage settlement, overruled.

THIS -was an appeal from the circuit, court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the
county of Washington.
The opinion of the court states the marriage articles between
Thomas Law and Elizabeth Park Custis, and the further history of the matter, up to the death of Thomas La*, in 1834.
In 1832, Thomas Law executed a will, in which he bequeathed $5,000 each to Thomas Law and Edmund Law,
the sons of the late John Law, Esq., of Washington. These
parties were represented by Henry May, their administrator,
and one of the appellants. James Adams was the executor
of the wl
He also bequeathed to a lad named Joseph Edmund-Law,
the sc a of Mary Robinson, the sum of $1,000. This was
the complainant below, and appellee in this court.
In 1888, the above-named Joseph E. Law filed his bill in
the circuit court, by his next friend, Mary Robinson, against
Adams, the executor,, praying that he might be ordered to
invest the sum of $1,000, and pay the interest thereof to
the complainant; and by an amended bill, prayed that Edmund and Thomas Law, Edmund Rogers, Eliza Rogers, and
Eleanor Rogers, and the other heirs of Eliza P. Custisi together
with sundry other persons, might be made parties.
In order to understand the position of the respective parties,
it is proper to mention that the only child of the marriage'
between Thomas Law and Eliza P. Custis, -was a daughter
* fr. Chief Justice TANEY having been.formerly consulted as counsel, did not sit
on the trial of this cause.

418

SUPREME COURT.
Adams et al. v. Law.

nAmed Eliza, who intermarried with Lloyd N. Rogers. Eliza
Rogers died in the lifetime of her mother. At the time of
these proceedings, Edmund Rogers and Eleanor Rogers were
the oly surviving children of Lloyd N. Pogers and Eliza, his
wife.
On the 29th of December, 1832, during the lifetime of
Thomas Law, Lloyd N. Rogers obtained from the orphans'
court of Washington county, D. C., letters of administration
upon the personal estate of Mrs. Elizabeth P. C. Law; and, as
administrator, claimed the arrearages of the annuity of $1,500,
payable to Mrs. Law, with interest thereon, from the periods
respectively, when the said annuity became payable and was
in arrears.
This claim arose in this way. On the 9th of August, 1804,
Thomas and Eliza Law, being desirous of separating, owing to
domestic differences, Law executed to George Calvert and
Thomas Peters a deed of certain real estate, to secure, by way
of mortgage, to his said wife, Eliza P. Law, an annuity during
her life of $1,500, for her own separate use and benefit, the said
real estate, at her death, to be reconveyed to Thomas Law and
his heirs, clear of all incumbrances imposed by Calvert and
Peters.
It should have been mentioned that, by a codicil to his will,
Thomas Law bequeathed to his grandchildren, Edmund,
Eliza, and Eleanor Rogers, five thousand dollars, with a provision, that it should be null and of no effect, if they should set
up a claim under the marriage settlement.
All the parties being before the circuit court, an interlocttory
decree was passed referring the case to the auditor, and James
Adams was'appointed trustee to sell the property, &c., &c.
The auditor made six reports, running from October, 1848,
to September, 1852, on which day the last was filed. Exceptions were filed by Henry May, administrator of Thomas and
Edmund Law, and also by Adams, the executor of the will.
It is not material to state any other exceptions than those upon
which the case came up to this court. These related to the
two following claims :1. The claim of Lloyd N. Rogers, as administrator of Eliza
P. Custis, the wife of the testator, amounting, in fact, to
$29,249.33.
2. A claim of Edmund and Eleanor Rogers, grandchildren
of Thomas Law and his wife Eliza P., $66,154.84.
If these claims should be admitted, the estate would be exhausted, and there would be nothing for the legatees.
In December, 1852, the circuit court passed a final decree,
overruling the exceptions, and establishing, amongst other things,
the two following orders: -

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

419

Adams et al. v. Law.

1. That the defendants, )Edmund Law and Eleanor A. Rogers,
as grandchildren of Mr. Law and children of- Mrs. Rogers, take
under the words of the deeds of 1796, 1800, and 1802.
6. That the administrator of Mrs. Law is entitled -to the
arrears of the annuity of $1,500, from the 9th of August, 1804,
to the death of Mrs. Law, with intetest.
From this decree, lay and Adams appealed to this court.
It was argued by Tr. Brent and Mlfr. May, for the appellants,
and by 1Mr. Carligle and l9r. Coxe, for the' appellees.
The reader will find references to the authorities in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
.James Adams, the appellant, whose account, as executor of
Thomas Law, deceased, was the subject-matter of the decree
below, excepts to it for the allowance of the two following
items :
1. The claim of Lloyd N. Rogers, as administrator of Eliza
P. Custis,'the wife of the testator, amounting to the sum of
$29,249.33.
2. A claim of Edmund and Eleanor Rogers, grandchildren
of Thomas Law and Eliza, amounting to $66,154.84.
1. As the court is equally divided as to the legality of the
first item, the decree must stand affinied as to that amount,
without further remark.
"2.The claim of the grandchildren will require more extended
notice.
This claim is founded on certain marriage articles, executed
between Thomas Law, of the first part, Elizabeth Park Cusjis,
of the second part, and James Barry, of the third part, on the
19th day of March, 1796. They recite that a marriage isintended between said Thomas and Elizabeth, and that "it is
the wish and design of the parties that a jointure should be
made to the said Elizabeth, in lieu and bar of all claim on the
estate" of said Thomas, &c., &c. In consideration of the marriage portion-money, &c., the said Law conveys to James Barry
certain real estate "to the said James Barry, his heirs, and
assigns, forever, upon the trusts and to and for the uses, intents,
and purposes following, that is to say: for the use of the said
Thomas Law, his heirs, and assigns, until the solemnization of
the said intended marriage, and afterwards to permit and suffer
him, the said Thomas Law, to receive all the issues and profits
of the said lands and premises, during the term of his natural
life6, for his own use; and immediately after the decease 'of the
said Thomas Law, in case the said Elizabeth Park Custis shall

SUPREME COURT.
Adams et al. v. Law.

survive him, her intended husband, that she, the said Elizabeth
Park Custis, shall have, accept, and receive the issues and profits of the said lands and premises, for and during the term of
her natural life, to and for her own use and benefit; but in case
the said Elizabeth shall depart this life in the lifetime of the
said Thomas Law, leaving issue of the said marriage one or
more children then living, then, from and immediately after the
decease of the said Thomas Law, upon trust for the child or
children of the said intended marriage, to be equally divided
between them, if more than one; to have and to hold the same
lands and premises, as tenants in common in fee-simple, share
and share alike; and if only one child, then to such child, his
or her heirs and assigns forever; but in case there shall be no
issue of said marriage, then, upon the death of the said Thomas
Law and Elizabeth Park Custis, and the survivor or survivors
of them, to revert back to the said Thomas Law, his heirs, or
assigns, or subject to be disposed of by him by last will and
testament, or other deed, as he may judge proper."
The marriage between the parties was solemnized in the
same year. Afterwards, (in 1800,) Mr. and Irs. Law joined
in another deed, substituting 'I.-iomas Peters as trustee instead
of Barry, and other property in place of that conveyed to Barry,
but subject to the conditions and limitations of the marriage
articles. And again, in 1802, another change was made in the
property, subject to the same limitations. The daughter and
only child of this marriage intermarried with Lloyd N. Rogers,
and died before her mother, leaving children, the claimants,
Edmund and Eleanor Rogers. iM~rs. Law died in 1832, and the
testator in 1834.
The only question for our decision is, whether the grandchildren, Edmund and Eleanor Rogers, took any thing by the
deed of settlement?
It is clear, from the face of this deed, that it is an executed
marriage settlement, and that it must be expounded on legal
principles applicable to other deeds. Limitations, either of
legal or equitable estates, receive the same construction in a
court of equity as in courts of law. "In executed trusts,
whether by deed or will, the rule of law must prevail, and the
apparent intention must give way to those fundamental rules,

which for ages have served as landmarks in the disposition of
property." 2 Spences Equity, 131.
The trustee in Tihis decd had xo duty to perform; and as the
estate is not limited to his own use, tile trusts are but uses, and
are executed as such by the statute. The object and purpose
declared by the parties are, to secure a jointure to the'intended
wife in lieu and bar of dower, and to release the marital rights

DECEMBER TERI,1854.

421

Adams et al. v. Law.

of the husband over the separate estate of the wife, in possession and expectancy. The settled property belonged entirely to
the husband.

The eftate limited to the wife is contingent.on

her surviving her husband, in whom an estate for life is absolutely vested. If the life-estate of the wife should vest by the
contingency of her survivorship, there is no provision for the
children or issue of the marriage, and the fee reverts to the right

heirs of the husband. The estate limited to the children of MNrs.
Law is a contingent reniainder, depending on the event that
Mrs. Law shall " depart this life in the lifetime of said Thomas

Law, leaving issue of said marriage, one or more children then
living," &c.
Does this description include grandchildren? We think,- it
does not.
The word " issue" is a general term, which, if not qualified
or explained, may be construed to include grandchildren as well
as childien. But the legal construction of the word "children"
accords with its popular signification, namely, as designating
the immediate offspring. See Jarman on Wills, 51. It is true,
in the construction of wills, where greater latitude is allowed,
in order to effect the obvious intention of the testator, grandchildren have been allowed to take, under a devise I"to my surviving children." But even in a will, this word will not be
construed to mean grandchildren, unless a strong case of intention or necessary implication requires it. Hence it is decided,
that a power of appointment to children will not authorize an
appointment to grandchildren. Robinson'v. Hardeastle, 2 Bro.
Ch.344; 4 Kent's Com. 345. In Reeves v. Brymer, it is said,
by Lord Alvanley, that "children may nmean grandchildren wvhen
there can be no other construction, but not otherwise." 4 VYes.
697.

The declared object of this deed is jointure, not a settlement
for the issue of the intended marriage; ror there is no provision
made for them, in case the wife should survive the husband.
The contingency, also, on which this remainder depends, is not
the leaving issue generally of the marriage; but the

".issue"

to

whom the estate is limited are described and defined to be " one
or more children living," to be equally divided between them, if
more than one, and, "if only one child, to such child, his heirs,"
&c. There is no provision for the issue of deceased children,
or for grandchildren, under any circumstances' The parties
have carefully defined what they mean by "issue," and the
court, in construction of their solemn deed, have no, right to
distort its plain meaning, to meet-contingencies not provided
for. It is an ancient and well-settled rule of construction, that,
"where a deed speaks by general words and afterwards descends
VOL. XVII.

86

SUPREME COURT.
Adams et al. v. Law.

to special words, if the special words agree to the general words,
the deed shall be intended according to the special words; for,
if the general words should stand without any qualification,
the special words would be altogether void, and of no effect."
8 Rep. 307.
Hence, in the construction both of wills and deeds, where the
instrument has not, so carefully as in the present case, limited
the word "issue" to children living, &c., but where the term is
uc'ed without qualification, and is in another part of the same
instrument supplied by the word child, or children, as a synonym, the courts have uniformly restrained its signification fo
children. Thus, in Carter v. Bentall, 2 Beav. 557, where the
devise was a moiety to "issue" of his daughter, and, if only one
child, then to such one child, and the trustee was ordered to lay
out the dividends in the maintenance of such "issue," Lord
Langdale, M. R., held that the word issue was thus explained
by the testator to mean " children."
In the case of Lo-veday v. Hopkins, Ambler, 27 3, it was held
that grandchildren were not entitled under a bequest to "heirs,"
because the term appeared, by the context of the will, to be used
in the sense of children.
In Swift v. Swift, 8 Sim. 168, by marriage articles the jointure property was limited, after the death of the survivor, on the
c"issue" of the marriage living at the death, in equal share if
more than one, and if but one, to go to such "child." The only
child of the marriage died before the contingency, leaving a
child. . It was held that "issue" was to be construed "child,"
and the legacy did not vest in the grandchild.
It wou'ld lead to too great prolixity to examine particularly
the very numerous cases in which similar language has received
the same construction. A reference to a few more directly in
point will suffice. Fitzgerald v. Field, 1 Russell, 430; Needham v. Smith, 4 lb. 318; Ridgeway v. Munkittrick, 1 Drury and
Warren, 84; Peel v. Catlow, 9 Sim. 373; Jennings v. Newman, 10 lb. 223; Tawney v. Ward, 1 Beav. 563; Winn v.
Fenwick, 11 lb. 438; Campbell v. Sandys, 1 Schoales and Lefroy, 281.
Being of opinion, therefore, that the grandchildren took
nothing under the limitations of the deed of marriage settlement, the decree'of the court below is reversed, as to the allowance of $66,154.84, made to Edmund and Eleanor Rogers, and
affirmed as to the residue; and the record remitted, with directions to make distribution accordingly.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record

DECEM-BER

TERM, 1854.

423

Adams et. al. v. Law.

from the circuit court of the United States, for the District of
Columbia, Ifolden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this court that the grandchildren took nothing under
the limitations of the deed of marriage settlement; whereupon it
isnow here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that so
much of the decree of the said circuit court as allows $66,154,1 to
Edmund and Eleanor Rogers be and the same is hereby reversed
and annulled, and that the residue of the said decree b3e and the
same is hereby affirmed, and that this cause be and tihe sanie is
hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to
make distribution accordingly, and to proceed therein in conformity to the opinion of this court.
And it is further ordered and decreed by this court that the
costs in this court be paid out Of the fuind by the trustee.
After Order.
ilessrs. Brent and I1ay having, oil a prior day of the present
term, to wit: on Friday the 16th instant, filed a motion in the
words and figures following, to wit:" The above appellants come here and move the holiorable
supreme court so to amend tieir decree'and the mandate to be
remanded thereon, as to declare that the grande hildren of the
testator, Thomas Law, by reason of their election and renunciation as shown in the interlocutory decree of the circuit court, (see page 66 of the record,) are not entitled as legatees of said
testator to participate in the distribution of the fund in controversy. And in making this motion, the appellants suggest that
this question arises on the record'in this court, and that it is the
practice of this court to settle all questions apparent on the
record, to prevent future appeals, and e.pecially where, as in this
case, the eflrct of the election and remnciation only becomes
material in carrying out the decree of this court, disallowing the,
claim- which the appellees elected to abide by; all of. which is
respectfully submitted.
ROBERT J. BRENT,
•H. MAY, for appellants."
And the court having duly considered tie same, Mr.Justice
M'LEAN announced the iollowing decision tlhireupon. to wit:
"The court hold that the pleadings in the case (o10 n
embrace the point stated in the above motion. The heirs
referred to, the children of Mrs. Rogers, having 'reliiiquished' all
claim under the will, and claimed tunder tie deed of settlement,
the court held they were not entitle(I to any partof the estate
under the deed of settlement, on-a donstruction of that instrument. Under these circumstances, whether they can 6laim as
distributees of the general estate, is -a question not. considered
by the court. The motion is therefore overruled."

