116

SUPREME COURT.
Stewart v. The United States.

opinion that due diligence and skill were used. Besides, we
do not find the necessity for the jettison attributable to any
defects in these particulars. It may be, that additional supports
of the lower deck would have assisted the vessel in bearing the

weight, but we see no reason to believe they would have enabled
it to carry this unusual burden through a storm; and, therefore,
if we found negligence in this particular, we could not declare
that the loss was to be attributed to it.
The decree of the district court is to be reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the libel with costs.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the north-

On con-

ern district of California, and was argued by counsel.

sideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed

by this court, that the decree of the said district court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said dis-

trict court, with directions to that court to dismiss the libel with
costs.

ADAM 1). STEWART, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.
STATES.

THE

UNITED

Congress have directed by law that in certain cases th0 duties of collectors of the
revenue -should be united with those of naval officer or surveyor of the port, but
never with thcse of inspector of the customs.
Therefore, where a person held the two offices of collector of the revenue and inspector
of the customs, and charged a salary for each office separately, it was irregular.
In May, 1822, congress passed an act, (3 Stat. at Large, 693,) directing that "no
collector, surveyor, or naval officer, shall ever receive more than $400 annually,
exclusive of his compensation as collector, surveyor, or naval officer, and the fines
and forfeitures allowed by law for any services he may perform for the United
States in any other office or capacity."
This act was intended to provide compensation to the collector, &c., for extraordinary
services incident to their respective offices, and to them only; but did not include
the union of the two offices of collector and inspector of the customs. A different
mode and rate of compensation for inspectors was provided by law.

Tuis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit

court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
There was an agreed statement of facts in the record, which

is transcribed in the opinion of the court, and therefore it is
unnecessary to recite it here.

Stewart was sued in 1835, and voluntarily appeared.

From

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

117

Stewart v. The United States.

that time to 1850, the cause was regularly continued upon the
docket. Urider the instructions of the court, the jury found a
verdict for the plaintiffs, for $638.81, with interest from the 13th
of January, 1833.
Stewart brought the case up to this court by writ of error.
It was argued by MIr. Walter S. Cox, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mkr. Gushing, (attorneygeneral,) for the United States.

Mr. Cox, for the plaintiff in error, made the following
points:1. That the act of congress of May 7, 1822, does not apply to
cases in which a collector holds at the same time the office of
collector and any other distinct and independent office.recognized by law,, by distinct and independent appointment, but
only to cases in which duties appertaining to other offices are,
in occasional cases, annexed by lawto the office bf collector, or,
by usage .of the treasury department, he is called on to perform
duties not strictly appertaining to his office.
If the literal meaning of a statute would extend to cases
which the court are satisfied the legislattre never contemplated,
or which would lead to absurd consequences, the operation of
the statute must be restrained to narrower limits than the words
import. 2 Inst. 386; Bacon's Abridg't Stat. I. 5; 1 Blackst.
88; Brewer's Lessee v. Blougher, 14 Pet. 78; United States v
Fisher, 2 Cr. 358; 1 Cond. R. 421.
In this case, the literal import of the language used in section 18th of the act of May, 1822, as understood by the accounting officers of the treasury, would embrace cases never contemplated by congress, and to which the application of the law
-would be absurd. It -would require that every officer in tie
service of the United States should be satisficll with $400 per
annum, as"the pay of his office, if he at the same time hold the
office of collector, no matter how insignificant the emoluments of the latter, or how responsible the duties of the former
office.

On the other hand, there is a subject-matter to -which the
language applies witbout any absurd or inconvenient consequences. The act entitled "Ai act to regulate the collection
of duties," &e., of July 31, 179, cli. 23, §§ 7, 8, (1 Stat. at Large,
29,) devolves the duties of one or -more of tie three offices of
collector, naval officer, and surveyor, upon one of them, ill certain contingencies, and temporarily.
Again, by the practice of the treasury department, collectors
and naval officers have acted a 5 agents to disburse money for
light-houses, receiving commissions for the same, and have

SUPREME

COURT.

Stewart v. The United States.

issued certificates to accompany distilled spirits, wines, and teas,
receiving fees for the same. In these cases, they do not act in
any distinct office- created by law, but perform mere agency
service, these duties being annexed to their offices by the department. The law applies to such cases, and was so construed by
the department. See Dr. Mayo's work on the Treasury Department, 69, 75.
The donstruction given by the United States to this law
would have the effect of making a few words at the end of the
law, exclusively intended for revenue officers, operate as a
repeal, by implication, of all the laws fixing the compensation of
officers of the United States, in cases where any other office is
uhited in the same person with the office of collector, &c.
Repeals by implication, whether general or partial, are not
favored by the law; and there must be positive repugnancy
between the old and the new law to make a repeal by implication. Dwarris on Statutes, 674; Wood v. L nited States,
16 Pet 342.
In-this case, the construction maintained by the plaintiff in
error would reconcile the act of May 7, 1822, with the others,
in all cases.
If fairly interpreted, the letter of the law in this case seems
more appropiiate for the class of cases to which we would
limit it, than to convey the extended meaning claimed for it on
the part of the United States. Hd it been meant to apply to
distinct offices, the language would have been as in the 14th
section of the act: " No person who shall be a collector, &c.,
and shall at the same time ho]d any other office, &c., shall ever
receive mor than $400 annually, &c., -n his said office.'.' Instead of which, the language is, "no collector," &c., that is,
qua collector, &c., " shall ever ieceive, &c., for any services
which he," that is, as collector, may p.rform, &c. If a collector
has at the same time another distinct office, as that of inspector,
it is not the collector who performs services in the latter office,
but the inspector; it is- not the collector who receives pay for
these services, but the inspector. The prohibition, therefore, as
to a collector's receipts, would seem not to apply, except to
cases where the collector, as such, receives fees for incidental
services performed by him as collector, but which do not strictly
belong to his office.
This view is confirmed by the fact that, wherever the laws
are clearly meant to apply to the case of union of distinct
offices in the same person, the language used is entirely
different.
There are two sets of phrases in the laws. The 15th section
of the act of May 7, 1822, which limits the amount to be

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

119

Stewart v. The United States.

received by a deputy collector "for any services he may perform
for the United States in any office or capacity," is supposed
to indicate the same policy as the 18th section, and to apply
only to services rendered by him as deputy collector, and not to
cases where he is invested at the same time with another distinct office.
On the other hand, the 14th section employs a different language, to apply to distinct offices. So the civil and diplomatic
appropriation act, of June 27, 1834, § 2, in speaking of other
officers than collectors, naval officers, and surveyors, says, " nor
shall the union of any two or more of these olieces in teisame
person entitle him to more than," &c.; which is difirent from
saying, "nor shall any such officer receive more tian, &c., for
any services he may render to the United"States, in any other
office or capacity." The language of the act of 1834 is followed
in the other appropriation acts.
The difference between the two forms of language is shown,
and the above views generally are sustained, in the case of
United States v. Morse, 3 Story's R. 87. It may be added, that
the meaning of this act is at least doubtful; and if so, it should
be construed favorably to the plaintiff in error. 1b.
2. If our construction of the .act of May 7, 18:22, be correct,
the plaintiff in error was entitled to the compensation claimed
by him in his accounts for the 4th quarter of the year 1S32:
By the act of March 2, 1799, cl. 22, § 21, (1 Stat. at Large,
627,) collectors are to appoint inspectors, with the approbation of the principal officer of the treasury departnent.
By the act of March 3, 1815, el. 94, 7§ 3, (3 Stat. at Large,
231,) continued in force by acts of April 27, 1816, and March
8,1817, inspectors are declared to be officers of the customs,
and required to take an oath of offi6e.
The act to regulate the collection of duties, &c., of July 31,
1789, (1 Laws U. S.45,).limits the compensation of inspectors
to one dollar and twenty-five cents for every day of actual employment.
The act of March 2,1799, § 2, (1 Stat. at Large, 707,) increases
the maximum to two dollars per day; and the act of April 26.
1816, (3 Stat, at Large, 306,) adds fifty per centum to this nxmmum, making it three dollars per day.
Under these acts, the secretary of the treasury, in 1,20, esrablished the compensation of, the plaintiff in error at three dollars
per day. He continued in the office until January 15. 1833.
Under the fixation of his salary by the proper officer, after the
service was rendered, he acquired a vested right to the conpe'sation established bythe secretary, unless the act of May 7,
1822, § 18, reduced his comipensation; and that, too, even if

SUPREME COURT.
Stewart v. The United States.

the secretary erred, either in the appointment to office or the
fixation of salary. United States v. McCall, Gilpin, 563;
United States v. McDaniel, 7 Pet. 15.
3. No act of the secretary of the treasury, or of the plaintiff
in error himself, affected his right to the compensation claimed.
The allowance made by the secretary of the treasury, at the
end of the year 1824, was a decision upon the construction of
the law. It could not be otherwise; for, if the plaintiff iri error
had acquired a vested right to the three dollars per day, it could
not be taken away from him by the secretary, and the secretary
is not to be presumed to have intended to exceed his powers.
The act of the secretary related entirely to the past, and must
therefore be construed to be a mere decision, which, if erroneous, cannot conclude the judgment of a court. United States
v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141.
Nor does the omission of the plaintiff in error to charge more
than $400 per annum, from the year 1824, preclude him from
afterwards claiming the difference between that and the maximiim compensation. If the law entitled him to it, nothing
but a new contract or a release could deprive him of it, of which
there is iio evidence, and for which there would be no consideration. His omission to charge, construed as an admission of
law, would not affect him. Construed as an admission of fact,
it could not be treated as an estoppel or admission in law
which would authorize a court, from the mere fact of omission
to charge, to draw the legal conclusion that he is not entitled to
charge now; but would, at most, be mere evidence for a jury,
explainable on other grounds than intention to admit any thing,
such as constraint, or misapprehension of fact, &c. In point of
fact, the whole conduct' of the plaintiff in error would seem
easily explainable. Situated at a point remote from Washington, he finds his allowance of three dollars per day, a inspector,
struck out of his accounts, without, as far as appears, any
explanation. Supposing that the secretary, in the exerc:se of
his le al discretion, has revoked his last fixation of the pay of
the office of inspector, he falls back upon the original allowance
of $40 per month, and charges that in his next accounts. This
also is struck out without explanation. He is then left in the
dark, and charges nothing for his services as inspector, for four
quarters, but evidently meaning to claim what was due him in
that capacity at some more convenient season. If this is to
operate against him at all, it would bind him to render the services for nothing. At the end of the year 1824, he finds in the
corrected account sent him from the department, a credit of
$1,000, for two years and a half of service, at the rate of $400
per annum, without further explanation. He may have sup-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

i21

Stewart v. The United States.

posed from this- that, as far- back as, May, 1822, the secretary
had established a new rate of compensation. Though the law
of May 7,1822, was sent to him, he may not have observed the
provisions supposed to affect him, or have understood it as the
accounting officers did; or, if he did so understand it, he may
have intended to reserve all questions until the final settlement
of his 9ccounts, knowing that a persistence in making charges
already disallowed would exhibit a balance ag st him in his
accounts, and subject him to dismissal from office.
At all events, the questions what the plaintiff in error meant,
and what the secretary of the treasury meant to do, are questions for a jury. The refusal of his prayer, by the court-below,
precluded him from asking further instructions, and took his
case from the jury. If, however, his construction of the law of
May 7, 1822, be correct, he is entitled, if any questions of fact
remain open, to have the case remanded to the court below for
a new trial.
4. If the construction of the plaintiff in error, of the act of
May 7, 1822, be correct, then, even were he concluded by any
fact in the case from claiming the whole amount demanded by
him, he would, at least, be entitled to the compensation claimed
by him to the end of the year 1824, and the decision of the court
below.must be reversed, for this would entitle him to a credit
of $1,737-0, which exceeds the balance claimed by the United
States, and the judgment would have to be for the.defendant
.M. Cushing, for the United States.
The statement of-facts in the bill of exceptions by Stewart,
is, that said Stewart was commissioned by the President, in
March5 1818, collector for the district of Michilimackinac, and
inspector of the revenue for the port thereof; which office he
held, by successive commissions, until 15th January, 1833.
On 1st April, 1819, said Stewart was appointed by the secretary of the treasury, inspector of the customs for that port,
which latter office he also continued to hold under this appointment, until the 15th January, 1833, and was allowed the per
diem compensation, as inspector of the customs, up to tst July,
1822, at the maximum of three dollars per day.
This "is the only ,case found of record of a collector holding,
at the same time, the two offices of collector and of inspector
of the customs."
The act of 7th May, 1822, (3 Stat. at Large, by L. and B.,
696, ch. 107, § 18,) Which took effect 1st July, 1822, enacts:
"No collector, surveyor, or naval officer, shall ever receive more
than $400 annually, exclusive of his compensation as collector,
surveyor, or naval officer, and the fines and forfeitures allowed
VOL. XVII.

11

122

SUPREME COURT.
Stewart v. The United States.

by law for any services he may perform for the United States
in any other office or capacity."
The said Stewart has been allowed, in the adjustment of his
accounts, the said sum of $400 annually, since the 80th June,
1822, over and above his compensation as collector, and the
fines and forfeitures allowed by law. But, notwithstanding the
said act of 1822, Mr. Stewart claimed to be allowed the further
compensation, at the rate of three dollars per day from the 1st
July, 1822, during his continuance in office, until the 14th January, 1833, which the accounting officers of the treasury have
uniformly rejected, as oftin as presented, since the said 1st July,
1822.
This rejected ?1laim of three dollars per day as inspector of the
customs, while he was also collector of the district, is the subject
of the bill of exceptions, (pp. 8, 9,) and of this writ of error, by
Mr. Stewart.
That the offices of collector of a district and of inspector of the
customs are distinct and separate, is admitted; but that does
not make an exception from the inhibition of the act of 1822,
"that no collector . . . shall ever receive more than $400 annually, exclusive, &c., ' * for any services he may perform for
the United States in any other office or capacity."
The 21st section of the act of the 2d March, 1799, to regulate
the collection of duties on imports and tonnage, (1 Stat. at
Large, by L. and B., 642, chap. 22,) shows that the several
offices of collector, naval officer, surveyor, and inspector, are distinct. Their several and respective duties are defined; and the
same section requires, "at the ports to which-a collector only is
assigned, such collector shall solely execute all the duties in
which the co6peration of the naval officer is requisite as aforesaid; and shall also, as far as may be, perform all the duties
prescribed to the surveyors at ports where such officers are
established."
The act of 1822 will not permit the collector, who executes
solely the additional duties of naval officer and surveyor, to
receive more than $400 per year for the services which he so
performs in the capacity of naval officer and surveyor, exclusive
of his compensation as collector and the fines and forfeitures,
although the several offices are distinct.
There is no reason why the collector, who performs also the
business of inspector of the customs at the port, should receive
the compensation of three dollars per day as inspector, seeing
that it is the collector who employs the inspector; that is, the
same officer acting in one capacity employs himself in another;
for, by the 21st section of the act of 1799, before cited, it is enacted that the collector shall, with the approbation of the prin-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

123

Stewart v. The United States.

cipal officer of the treasury department, employ proper persons
as weighers, gaugers, measurers, and inspectors, at the several
ports in his district
It is true, the appointment, as a constitutional act, lies with
the secretary of the treasury, the language of the statute being
quite inexact, and running' as -if the secretary herely possessed
a powerof appr.ving or disapproving. In fact, he, and he alone,
appoints. Murbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, 155; United
States v. Batchelder, 2 Gall. 15; United States v. Wood, 2 Gall.
361; Air. Legar6's Opinion, Opinions Att-Gen. 1577, 1579.
But the inconvenience remains, of having the collector, as collector, employ himself as inspector. The collector himself is to
pay to the inspector the sum allowed by law, "for every day he
shall be actually employed in aid of the customs, a sum not
exceeding two dollars; and for every other person that the collector may find it necessary and expedient to employ, as occasional inspector, or in any other way in aid of the revenue, a
like sum while actually so employed, not exceeding two dollars
for every day so employed; to be paid by the collector, out of
the revenue, and charged to the United States." Act to establish the compensations of officers employed in the collection of
imports and tonnage, 1 Stat. at Large, by L. and B., 707, ch.
23, § 2.
The compensation to inspectors war increased by a subsequent act, so that the maximum of allowance is three dollars per
day.
By the act to regulate the collection of duties on imports and
tonnage, approved March 2,1799, (1 Stat. at Large, by L. and
B., 642, ch. 22, § 21,) "The surveyor shall superintend and
direct all inspectors, weighers, measurers, and gaugers within
his port; and shall, once every week, report to the collector the
name or names of such inspectors, weighers, gaugers, or measurers, as may be absent from, or neglect to do, their duty. '*
And at the ports to which a collector only is assigned, such collector shall solely execute all the duties in which the cobperation
of the naval officer is required, as aforesaid, and shall dlso, as far
as may be, perform all the duties prescribed to the surveyors, at
the ports. where such officers are established."
The mode of appointing the inspector, the mode of checking
his absence .or neglect, and the mode of payment, render this
office improper to be held by the same person who is, at the
same time, collector of the port. The two offices are incompatible; and not to be held by one and the same person, at one and
the same time.
This may account for the facts, that ".the defendant's (now
plaintiff in error) is the only case found on record, of.a. collector

SUPREME COURT.
Stewart v. The United States.

holding, at the same time, the office of inspector of the customs;" and that he was so appointed but once, on the 15th
April, 1819, but was never afterwards reappointed as inspector
of customs, although his appointment and commission as collector were renewed every four years, from the 12th March, 1818,
until January, 1833.
The act of 1799 (1 Stat. at Large, 638, § 17) enacted that
the district of Michilimackinac should consist of a port of entry
(and, of course, of delivery also) for the district, and of three
other ports of delivery only; a collector to be appointed to reside
at the port of entry, and surveyors to reside at the ports. of delivery. So that the collector of the district had to perform the
duties also assigned by law to a naval officer and surveyor, at
ports where such officers were established.
The appointment of Mr. Stewart to be inspector of the customs, while he was collector of the district, was an unauthorized
act, a mistake.
If the collector could lawfully nominate himself to be inspector also, and the head of the department could lawfully
approve and confirm, then the collector of the port could be,
also, inspector, weigher, gauger, measurer, and marker, and,
according to the instruction moved, (pp. 8, 9,) might receive
his compensation as collector, three dollars per day as inspector,
and, also, the fees of weigher, gauger, measurer, and marker.
But the act of 1822 prohibits a collector from receiving more
than $400 annually, exclusive of his compensation as collector,
and the fines and forfeitures allowed by law, "for any services
he may perform for the United States in any other office or
capacity."
The adjustment by the accounting officers of the treasury, in
refusing to allow the collector more than $400 annually, for any
extra services, and in refusing to allow him three dollars per day
as an inspector, or at the rate of forty dollars per month as inspector, was correct; and the instruction moved on the part of
the defendant, on the trial in the circuit court, was very properly
refused by the court; wherefore, it is alleged, on the part of the
United States, that there is no error apparent in the record, to
the prejudice of plaintiff in error, and the attorney-general prays
that the judgment be affirmed, with damages and costs.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us upon a writ of error to a judgment
of the circuit court of the.Unaited States.for Washington county,
in the District of Columbia, in favor of the defendants in error,
against the plaintiff, as collector of the revenue for the district
of Michilimackinac. The jury, upon the trial in the circuit

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Stewart v. The United States.

court, rendered a verdict for the defendants in error, foi the sum
of $638.81, with interest thereon from the 13th day of January,.
1833; and for this amount the court, at its October Jrm, '1852,
gave judgment.
The questions of law passed upon and reserved by a bill of
exceptions in the court below, and which this court, are now
called on to review, arise upon the following agreed statement
of facts, namely :That on or about the 12th March, 1818, the defendant was
appointed by the President of the United States, collector for the
district of Michilmackdnac, and inspector of the revenue for
the port thereof; which offices he continued to hold, by successive reappointments, and to receive the emoluments of,Utill the
15th day of January, 1833.
" That on or about the 1st April, 1819, the defendant was
appointed, by the secretary of the treasury, inspector of he-customs for the port of Michilimacldnac; which office he continued
to hold, under his original appointment, until January 15, 1833.
The defendant's is the only case found on record of a collecto.
holding at the same time the office of inspector of the customs.
His allowance, in this capacity, was fixed by the secretary at
forty dollars a month, and so continued until the second quarter
of the year 1820, when it was increased by the secretary to three
dollars per day, the maximum allowance permitted by law to '
regular inspector of the customs. . The defendant continued to
be paid, as inspector of the customs, at this rate, till the.lst July;
1822, when the act of congress of the 7th May, 1822, went into
effect, entitled, I An act further to establish the compensation of
officers of the customs, and to alter certain collection districts,
The 18th
and for other purposes.' 3 Stat. at Large, 693.
section of this act is as follows: I No collector$ surveyor, or naval officer shall ever receive more than $400 annually, exclusive
of his coinpensation as collector, surveyor, or naval officer, and
the fines and forfeitures allowed by law, for any services he may
perform for the United States, in any other office or capacity."'
" A copy of the foregoing law was duly transmitted by the
treasury department to the defendant. In his accounts for the
3d and 4th quarters of the" year 1822, the defendant charged
compensation at the rate of $3 a day, as inspector of customs,
which charge was disallowed at the treasury; and in his accounts for the first three quarters of the year 1823, he charged
compensation at the rate of $40 a month, as inspector of the
customs, which latter charge was also disallowed at the treasury.
The defendant rendered several other accounts, containing no
charge as inspector of the dhstoms, till the end of the year 1824.
In a treasury settlement, made at that date, the defendant is
11 "

126

SUPREME

COURT.

Stewart v. The United States.

credited with $1,000, 'the amount of an allowance made by
the secretary of the treasury, to the collector, for services as inspector, from 1st July, 1822, to 31st of December, 1824, .at $400
per amum.' In his account rendered for the 1st quarter of the
year 1825, the.defendant charged himself with the balance found
due from him on the next preceding settlement, in which he had
been allowed but $400 per annim, as inspector of the customs;
and in his several successive settlements, from that time to 31st
December, 1831, continued to charge only $400 per annum, as
inspector of the customs."
"By the act of 2d March, 1831, ' to regulate the foreign and
coasting trade on the northern, northwestern, and northeastern
frontiers of the United States, and for other purposes,' 4
Stat. at Large, 487, the compensation of every collector, on the
northern and northeastern and northwestern lakes and rivers,
' was fixed at an amount equal to the entire compensation received by such officer during the past year.' The defendant
was credited, in 1831, and subsequently, with the compensation allowed to him in 1830, being $8358, which included
$400, allowed him as inspector of the customs. In 1832,
he charged his compehsation under this law; but in the 4th
quarter of that year he claimed the difference between $400
and 1,095 a year, from the 30th of June, 1822, to the 31st of
December, 1832, being . ,97 . " for ten years and six months.
This claim was, before the commencement of this suit, presented
to the accounting officers of the treasury for their examination,
and was disallowed. On the foregoing evidence the counsel
for the defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows :
That the 18th section of the act of Congress, passed on the 7th
of May, 1822, further to establish the compensation of the
officers of the customs, &c., was not intended to operate, and
ought not to be construed as operating, so as to limit the salary
or compensation of any district officer, which may by distinct
and independent appointment be vested in the person of one
holding at the same time the separate office of collector, surveyor,
or naval officer; and that such limitation applies only to cases
where the collector, surveyor, or naval officer is called to perform
services in any other office or capacity, in virtue of, and as an
incident to, his office; not to any case where either of those
officers was appointed to and executed the duties of another
separate office, whilst collector, surveyor, or naval officer."
"If, therefore, the defendant was appointed to, and held and
exercised, the office of inspector of customs, at the same time as
that of collector of Michilimackinac, such office of inspector
was not within the purview of the 18th section of the said act.
"Which instruction the court refused to give."

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

127

Stewart v. The United States.

In the above statement of the claim of the plaintiff in error
there is an apparent confusion in terms, which it may be proper
here to mention, althougf its elucidation is not deemed essential
to the decision of this case. Thus, it is said that the plaintiff-in
error was, in March, 1818, commissioned by the President, collector for the district of Michilimackinac, and inspector of the
revenue for the port thereof, which offices he held by successive
commissions until the 15th of January, 1833. Inthe next place
it is.stated, that the plaintiff in error was, on the 1st of April,
1819, appointed by the.secretary of the tr asury inspector of the
customs for'that port, which latter office he also continued to
hold under this appointment until the 15th of January, 1833.
If by these two statements a distinction is designed between
the office of inspector of the revenue and that of inspector of the
customs, this court can perceive no warrant for any such distinction, but must regard the terms used as properly applicable to
those inspectors or agents who, by the 21st section of the revenue
law of March 2, 1799, are authorized, togethei with weighers,
gaugers, and measurers, to be employed by the collectors, with
the approbation of the officer at the head of ihe treasury department.
Again, regarding as we do the place of inspector, alleged to
have been conferred by each of the appointments spoken of .by
the plaintiff, to.be the same in character and objects as provided
in the statutes- th~re would be a manifest irregularity in an attempt to refer its origin and commencement to different sources
of creation, and. thus to cover the same duties and obligations,
and for the name period of time, under the guise of distinct
and separate commissions.
The foundation of the claim preferred by the plaintiff in error,
rests on the position that the offices of collector and surveyor
are separate and different in their character, and in the powers
and duties allotted to each ; and that under his separate commission, and in the discharge of his separate and appropriate duties,
each officer is entitled to his separate and appropriate compensation.
Let us examine this proposition; nay, let it, as a general
proposition, be conceded; the inquiry will still remain, how far
the concession will sustain the claim of the plaintiff in the present instance.
It is undeniably truce, that the act of Congress of March
2, 1799, Stat. at Large, 642, creates and enumerates separately
the different offices of collector, naval officer, surveyor of the
port, inspector, weigher, gauger, and measurer, and defines
and prescribes the functions and duties of each respectively.
And. it is clear that in ports or districts in which all these offices

128

SUPREME

COURT.

Stewart v. The United States.

are called into actual existence, the functions and duties assigned to any one of them are not appropriited in terms, nor by
necessary implication, to any of the others; on the contrary,
t'hose duties and functions, as distributed by the law, appear to
be different, and in some sense incompatible with their union
in the same individual, being in some instances in their nature
supervisory, and being designed to insure the fulfilment of a
portion of those duties by others.
But whilst this is the case, there cannot be denied to congress the power, under circumstances satisfactory to themselves,
to blend -in the same person or office functions or duties which,
under another aspect of facts, they have thought it proper to
divide and distribute. This is clearly a question of legislative
discretion, bearing upon views of public necessity or policy;
and accordingly we find, that, in view of such policy or necessity, congress have, by the very same act of March 2, 1799,
materially modified, and to a certain extent contravened, the
previous organization prescribed for the collection of the revenue,
adapting such modification t the facts or necessities, as they
should really exist.
Notwithstanding, however, the power must be conceded to
congress to combine in the same officer duties and powers in
their nature seemingly incompatible, that power can be conceded to the legislative authority alone and expressly declared,
and cannot be implied upon any sound principle of legal interpretation or of public policy. Congress have, it is true, ordained,
in certain conjunctures, the union of the duties of collector, naval
officer, and surveyor of the port, but under no circumstances have
they transferred to either of the officers just enumerated the duties
of inspcctor of the customs. This last-named agent, it is said by
the statute, may, with the approbation of the officer at the head
of the treasury department, be employed by the collector. Under
this provision of the statute the question arises, whether the
collector qua collector can, under any circumstances, apart from
express legislative direction, become inspector of the customs,
or under the authority to employ such an agent can contract
with himself to employ himself as such an agent? We are very
sure that such a proceeding on the part of the collector is not
authorized by the language of the statute, and we think it not
warranted by any sound principle of policy, which on the contrary would inculcate a course tending rather to prevent than
to invite to fraud and collusion. The collector, therefore, is not
the inspector virtute officii, nor warranted in employing himself
as iinspector, nor in assuming the functions, nor in claiming the
compensation, allowable to the latter officer.
In the case under consideration, the plaintiff in error has, by

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

129

Stewart v. The United States.

the accounting officers of the government, been allowed for compensation, as inspector, the sum of $40 per month,.until some
time in the year 1820; and from the period last mentioned he
was, for similar services, allowed the compensation of $3 per
diem, until the 1st 6f July, 1822, from which last period the
compensation of the collector was limited by the government,
for all extra services, to the sum of $400 per annum, under the
18th section of the act of May 7, 1822, which declares: "That
no collector, surveyor, or naval officer, shall ever receive more
than $400 annually, exclusive of his compensation as collector,
surveyor, or naval officer, and the fines and forfeitures allowed
by law for any services he may perform for the Uhited States
in any other office or 6apacity."
The several allowances made by the government to the plaintiff in error, as inspector of the customs, and received by him in
that character, and acquiesced in by both parties, may be regarded
as no longer presenting subjects of controversy; but the facts
of such allowances, and the acceptance of them, cannot be permitted to control the construction of a public law, nor to influence a claim now asserted under the provisions of that law;
much less can they be regarded as affecting the power of. congress to regulate, prospectively, the duties and emoluments of
agents created by its authority. 'When, therefore, the plaintiff
in error advances a claim in the character of inspector, he must
establish a legal and competent 4ppointment to-the office of
inspector, and an appropriation to him of the duties and emoluments incident thereto. Fo- these he has appealed to the reven ie law of March 2, 1799; but neither in that, nor in any
other revenue law, do we perceive, as appertaining to him as
collector, the authority and functions of inspector, nor any right
to con pensation for the services of the latter officer.
With regard to the allowance of $400 per annum, although
accorded to him in settlement as inspector of the customs, it is
pl in from the language of the statute of May 7, 1822, § 18,
that this wa intended to provide compensation to the collector, naval officer, and surveyor of the port, for extraordinary
services incident to their respective offices,-and to them only;
and did not embrace the subordinate position of inspector, as to
which a different mode and rate of compensation, that is, one
graduated by the month or by the day, had been provided. To
entitle himself to this latter compensation, the claimant must
show himself regularly and exactly in the situation to which the
law has allotted it. Upon a consideration of the case, we regard
jhe question properly before us to be this: whether the-collector,
as such, and in virtue of his office, can claim compensation for
services not required by the language of the statute by which

SUPREME

COURT.

.Shields et al. v. Barrow.

his duties are prescribed, nor inherently nor regularly ippropliate
to his office; services which the law has, upon obvious principles
of policy, imposed on another and a different agent, subordinate
to the collector, the performance of which services it is made
the duty of the collector to supervise and enforce. We are of
the opinion that the collector could have no such claim, and
therefore decide that the judgment of the circuit court be
affirmed.
Ordter.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of
Coiumbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said
circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed.

WILLIAM

3.

SHIELDS

AND

R.

OTHERS,
BAR '.OW.

APPELLANTS, V. ROBERT

A vendor sold an estate in Louisiana fora large sum of money, and received payment,
from time to time, for nearly one half of the amount. Afterwards, he agreed to
take back the property, upon the payment of an additjonal sum of money, which
was secured to him by the promissory notes of six individuals, four of whom lived
in Louisiana, and two in Mississippi.
Becoming dissatisfied with this arrangement, the vendor filed a bill in the circuit court
of the United States for Louisiana, against the two citizens of Mississippi, to set
aside the agreement as having been improperly procured, and to restore him to his
rights under the original sale.
All the six persons with whom the second arrangement was made, were indorsers
upon the notes origiially given by the vendee for the purchase-money, under the
sale.
The four parties to the compromise, who resided in Louisiana, not being suable in the
circuit court of that State, and their presence, as defendants, being necessary, the
court could not rescind the contract as to two, and allow it to stand as to the other
four. Consequently, it could not pass a decree, as prayed.
Neither the act of congress of 1839, (5 Stat. at Large, 321, § 1,) nor the 47th rule
for he equity practice of the circuit courts, enables a circuit court to make a decree
in equity, in the absence of an indispensable party, whose rights must necessarily
be affected by such decree.
The cases upon this point, the statute, and the rule examined.
The bill should have been dismissed.
The two Mississippi defendants answered.
The bill, insisted that the compromise was made in good faith, and one of them filed
a cross-bill against the vendor to compel him to carry it out.
This cross-bill was also defective, as to parties, the other sureties and the vendee
having an interest in the subject, so that, without their presence, no decree could be
made..
The vendor then filed a petition, by way of amended bill, stating his willingness to
carry out the compromise upon certain conditions, which he prayed the court to
enforce.
This was irregular. The rules about amendments, examined.

