DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

225

The United States v. Seaman.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of Virginia, and on the point or question on which the
judges of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion agreeably to the
act of congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof it is the opinion of this
court that this action did not survive against the executor of the
defendant, and that it did abate by the defendant's death.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court
that it be so certified to the said circuit Court.

THE UNITED STATES, ex relatione BEVERLY TUCKtR, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JA G. SEAMAN, SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC PRINTING.
By the act of congress passed on the 26th of August, 1852, ch. 91, it was made the
duty of the superintendent of public printing to receive all matter ordered by congress to be printed, and to deliver it to the public printer or printers.
In 1854, Beverly Tucker was printer to the senate, and 0. A. P. Nicholson, printer
to the house of representatives.
The act further provided, that when any document should be ordered to be printed
by both houses of congress, the entire printing of such document should be done
by the printer of that house which first ordered the printing.
In January, 1854, the commissioner of patents communicated -to the senate that
portion of his Annual Report for 1853, which related to arts and manufactures.;
and on the ensuing day the same communication was made to the house of representatives. Each house having ordered it to be printed, the printing was assigned
to Mr. Tucker.
In March, 1854, the agricultural portion of the report was sent to both houses, anfd
both of them, on the same day, ordered it to be printed. In actual priority of time,
the order of the house was passed first. The printing of it was given to Mr. Nicholson.
A writ of mandamus will not lie from the circuit court of the United States, commanding the superintendent to deliver the printing to Mr. Tucker.
Whether the two p'ortions of the report constituted one document, and which house
passed the order first, were questions requiring the exercise of judgment and discretion in the rublic officer, who had something more than a mere ministerial-duty
to perform.
The cases upon this point examined.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for Washington county.
The question was, whether the Report of the Commissioner
to agriof Patents relatfhig to arts and manufactures and also
culture, which was divided into the two branches, and made to
congress at different times, was, or was not, one document, and

226

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Seaman.

whether the delivery of it to the public printer of one or the
other house of congress was, or was not, a mere ministerial
duty.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Chi/ton and Mr. Johnson, for the plaintiff in error, and by 31r. Cushing, (attorney-general,) for the
defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error made the following
points :The judgment of the court below, refusing the relief asked,
found on pages seven to eight of the record, srows the grounds
upon which said court rested its judgment in the premises.
The existence or non-existence of the facts upon which, when
applied to an act of congress, the petitioner insisted he was
entitled to the relief lie prayed for, the court below, it will be
seen by their judgment, declined to consider or decide. For
the purposes of this case, we insist that the facts alleged in the
petition must be held to have existed.
The sole question, then, for this court to decide is, whether
or not the court below erred in refusing the relief asked, upon
the ground that said court had no jurisdiction of the case stated
in tile petition, or, in other words, that said petition was demurrable. We suppose that if any well-founded objection to the
grant of the relief prayed for was to be found upon the face of
the petition, although different from those stated in the judgment, which seem, one of them, to have governed the judgment
of both judges, and the other to have weighed only with one
of them, still, the judgment of the court below would be held
valid.
in this view, the whole business of this court, we submit, will
be to interpret the act of the 26th August, 1852, ch. 91, referred
to in the judgment, and ascertain whether or not, by that act, the
appellee, as superintendent of public printing, was or was not,
in the matter complained of, a ministerial executive officer,
within the meaning of the definition of such officer to be found
in the opinion of the court, at the present term, in Goodrich's
case.
We treat Goodrich's case as having definitively settled the
law, so far as the facts of any case shall be found to bring it within the scope of the principles therein declared. And if, in the
judgment of this court, the present case shows the appellee to
have been invested with official discretion ii the matter complained of, then the appellant is not entitled to relief.
We insist that the seventh section of the act of congress
aforesaid gives to the printer of that house of congress in which

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

227

The United States v. Seaman.

a document is first ordered to be printed, the absolute title to
print all the copies ordered by both houses, without reservation,
or subject in any manner to the decision or discretion of any
one.
Next, that such absolute and unreserved right is not restrained, modified, or affected, by any other seetion of that act,
or of any act of congress.
Next, that there is nothing to be found in the portion of said
act creating the office held by appellee, nor in any portion or
portions of said act conferring and defining the powers, duties,
liabilities, or responsibilities of said officer, any language qualifying, restraining, or subjecting to the judgment of said officer,
directly or -indirectly, to any extent, the right secured to the
printer by the said 7th section.
Next, that there is no word in the portion of said act providing for a joint-committee of printing and subjecting said
superintendent to the duty of reporting to said committee or to
the control of said committee, as specified in the act, which, by
any fair construction, can affect, limit, restrain, or submit to
the judgment of said superintendent, or to that of the said
committee, the right secured to the printer by the said 7th
section.
We submit, finally, that the question, which of two houses
of congress first orders a document to be printed, is a question
of fact which could not by possibility require judicial discretion
in its determination. It is a question of fact to be determined
only by an inspection of the journals (records) of the houses of
congress; and -we submit, the question of identity of documents is susceptible of as little difficulty in determining it as
the question of the time of the order to print; that congress, so
considering, failed wholly by said act t6 vest any such discretion in any one.
The first point made by Mr. Cushing, for the defendant, was,
that the circuit court had not the power to grant the mandamus
asked for, either by statute or the common law.
2. The duties devolved upon Seaman are not those of a
mere ministerial character: and, ther fore, the circuit court had
no authority to direct in relation to them.
If we concede that the circuit court can order the performance of a mere ministerial duty, the omission complained of
in this case was not of a ministerial character. Seaman was
appointed superintendent of public printing under the 2d section
of the act of August, 1852, (ch. 91,)-and his duties are prescribed
by the 3d.
(Then followed a recital of the act.)

228

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Seaman.

By the 7th section, it will be seen that, when a document is
ordered to be printed by both houses, the entire printing is to
be done by the printer of that house which first ordered it By
the 3d, he is to keep an account of the orders received from
each house, to deliver out the printing, in conformity therewith,
to the proper public printer, and to issue his certificate for the
amount due for such printing. These provisions devolve upon
him the duty of determining: 1. Which house actually first
ordered the printing of a particular document; and, 2. What
was includecT in the document itself, by the terms of the order
for printing. These duties involved considering and determining facts, and the construction of written orders. In the discharge of these functions, Seaman determined that the printing
of the document in question was first ordered by the house of
representatives, and that the previous order, by the senate, did
not include this documefht, which was not then before either
house. He decided that the senate order was confined to what
was before the senate when it was made, and could not include
those not sent to that body, and which might not even have
been prepared. A decision upon such questions is not reviewable in, nor subject to the control of, the circuit court. Decatur
v. Paulding, 14 Pet. 497; Brashear v. Mason, 6 How. 92;
Goodrich v. Guthrie, Dec. Term, 1854; McElrath v. McIntosh,
1 Law Rep. N. S. 399; Worthington v. Bicknell, 1 Bland. Ch.
R. 186; Pascault v. The Commissioners of Baltimore, Ib. 584;
Bardley v. Lloyd, 1 Harris and McH. 27; Runkle v. Winemiller,
6 Tb. 429; Ellicott v. The Levy Court, L and J. 184; Williams
v. Cadman, 1 G. and Q. 559.
3. Where the superintendent is not clothed with power to
determine questions concerning the printing ordered by the two
houses of congress, the duty of deciding them necessarily rests
with congress itself, and not with the judiciary.
The 12th section of the act of 1852 makes provision, by
which the joint committee on printing is clotled with full
power to determine, in relation to disputes between the superintendent and the public printers. If the power thus conferred
upon the joint committee is not broad enough to reach this
case, then, from necessity, its decision must rest with one or
both houses of congress. They are fully competent to determine their wants, and the construction and extent of their
orders, and how they require them t6 be executed, and by
whom. If a mandamus can issue in the present case, it may
lead to most ruinous consequences. If the document in question has been printed under the house order, it may, if the mandamus issues, be reprinted under the senate order, and thus
double the number of copies ordered, as well as the expense,

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
The United States

229

v. Seaman.

contrary to law, and the intention and orders of the two houses.
The writ of'injunction is of a more comprehensive character,
issuing from the equity side of this same circuit court, forbidding certain acts to be done. If a mandamus will lie, which,
in effect, orders priting to be done, an injunction may also be
granted to prohibit printing. In that case, if the superintendent should refuse to deliver a document to the senate printer,
the latter might enjoin against delivery to the house printer,
and thus congress would fail in its printing altogether. A controversy between the public printers might thus, by the use of
the mandamus and injunction, retard, if not defeat, legislation. A like controversy might wholly prevent the publication
of the laws. It is respectfully submitted, that the matters involved in the present controversy pertain exclusively to the
legislative department, and that the judiciary have no authority
over them.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, at the times hereinafter mentioned,
was, and still -is, superintendent of public printing of the two
houses of congress; and the relator printer to the senate, and
0. A. P. Nicholson printer to the house of representatives.
By the act of' August 26, 1852, it is made the duty of the
superintendent to receive, from the secretary of the senate and
the clerk of the house of representatives, all matter ordered by
congress to be printed, and to deliver it to the public printer or
printers. And the 12th section provides, that when any document shall be ordered to be.printed by both h6uses of congress,
the entire printing of such document s*hall be done by the printer
of that house which first ordered theprinting.
On the 31st of January, 1854, the commissioner of patents
communicated to the senate that portion of his annual report
for 1853 which relates to arts and manufactures, which that
body, on the same day, ordered to be printed; and, on the following day. it was communicated to the house of representatives, who passed a similar order. This communication was
delivered by the superintendent to the relator.
On the 20th of March, 1854, thb commissioner communicated to both houses the agricultural portion of his report,
which each house, on the same day, ordered to be printed; the
order of the house of representatives being, it is admitted, first
made.
The relator claimed, that the report of the comnmissioner of
patents was but one document, within the meaning of Ithe act
of congress above referred to, and that, by virtue of the order
of the senate of the 31st of -January, 1854, he was eiititled to
VOL. XVII.

20

230

SUPREME

J
COURT.

The United States v. Seaman.

the printing of the agricultural portion of the report, although
the printing of this part was first ordered by the house of representatives. The superintendent, however, refused to deliver it;
and the relator thereupon applied to the circuit court for the
District of Columbia for a mandamus, to compel the delivery.
That court was of opinion that it had not jurisdiction of the
case, and refused the mandamus; and this writ of error is
brought by the relator.
The power of the circuit court of this district to issue writs
of mandamus to an officer of the government in Washington,
has frequently been the subject of discussion in this court. It
was before the court in Kendall v. Stokes, 12 Pet. 524; in Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Ib. 497; in Brashear v. Mason, 6 How.
92; and again, in Goodrich v. Guthrie, at the present term.
The rule to be gathered from all of these cases is too well settled
to need further discussion. It cannot issue in a case where discretion and judgment are to be exercised by the officer; and it
can be granted only where the act required to be done is
meiely ministerial, and the relator without any other adequate
remedy.
Now, it is evident that this case is not one in which the
superintendent had nothing to do but obey the order of a superior authority. He had inquiries to make, before he could execute the authority he possessed. He must examine evidence;
that is to say, he must ascertain in which house the order to
print was first passed. He may, it is true, generally obtain this
from the journals of the two houses, but yet he must examine
them, and compare the dates of the orders; and, in this particular case, it may even have been necessary to take oral testimony, before he could determine the fact of priority, as the
order was passed in each house on the same day. And, after
he had made up his mind upon this fact, it was still necessary
to examine into the usages and practice of congress, in marking a communication in their proceedings as a document; and
to make up his mind whether separate communications upon
the same subject, or on different subjects from the same office,
when made at different times, were, according to the usages
and practice of congress, described as one document, or different documents, in printing and publishing their proceedings.
He was obliged, therefore, to examine evidence, and form his
.iudgment before he acted; and, whenever that is to be done, it
is not a case for a mandamus,
Nor is there any reason of public policy or individual right,
which requires that this remedy should be extended beyond its
legitimate bounds, in order to embrace cases of this description;
fo. it would embarrass the operations of the legislative and exec-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

231

The United States v. Seaman.

utive departments of the government, if the court of this district was aithorized to interfere, by this summary process, irr
controversies between officers, in their respective employments,
whenever differences of opinion as to their respective rights
may arise. If these differences cannot be adjusted .by the authorities under which they are acting, an ordinary action at law
would be an adequate remedy for any injury sustained.
It seems to be supposed that the case of Kendall v. Stokes
justified this application; but it is altogether unlike it. The
award of the solicitor of the treasury, in that case, was an official act; he was the officer appointed by act of congress to
settle that account, and determine the amount of credit to
which Stokes was entitled, if to any; and all that the postmaster-general was required to do was, to enter it in the books
of the department, when reported to him by the solicitor of the
treasury. He was merely to record it. His duty, under that
act of congress, was like that of q; clerk of a court, who is
required to redord its proceedings; or, of an officer appointed
by law to record deeds, which a party has a right by law to
place on record; or of the register of the treasury of the United
States, to record accounts transmitted to him by the -proper
accounting officers, to be recorded. The duty, in such cases,
is merely ministerial; as much so as that of a sheriff or marshal
to execute the process of a court.
This was the point decided in Kendall v. Stokes, and the
subsequent cases have .all been decided upon the same princ-ples. They dre in no degree in conffict with it; on the contrary, they have followed it.
But the case before us, for the reasons above stated, is unlike
that of Kendall v. Stokes, and the circuit court were right in
refusing the mandamus. The judgment must, therefore, be
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court that the judgment of
the said circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs.

