616

SUPREME COURT.
Lewis v. Bell.

It is ordered that the decree be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

M ARY LEwis, ADMINISTRATRIX OF STEPHEN J. LEWIS, DECEASED,
APPELLANT, V. EDWARD R. BELL, ASSIGNEE OF I. BELL, JUNIOR.
Where a claimant upon the government of Brazil assigned his claim to a creditor soon
after the transaction occurred which gave rise to the claim, and the assignment appeard to have been made upon good consideration, the assignee was entitled to
receive the proceeds of the award of the commissioners. ,The assignee took meas-

ures, immediately after the assignment, to protect his rights.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the District of Columbia, holden in and for Washington
county.
The case is stated in theI opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Chilton and Mr. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Bradley, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The subject-matter in dispute in this case is a sum of money
in the hands of the secretary of the treasury, which had been
awarded to the appellant by the commissioner appointed under
the act of congress to adjust claims under the treaty betweer the
United States and Brazil. Stephen J. Lewis, deceased, is admitted to have been the original owner of the claim. He was
owner of one fifth of the brig Caspian, which was illegally seized
by the Braziliarr squadron, in October, 1827, and condemned.
Lewis was on board at the time, and was robbed of his baggage
and money to the extent of some four thousand dollars. The
whole amount awarded on these claims of Lewis, was $11,551.
Isaac Bell, senior, the father of the appellee, had an assignment of this claim from Lewis; by deed of assignment, dated
November, 1828.
The claim was prosecuted to its final recovery in 1852, by
Isaac Bell. But having in the meanwhile lost or mislaid his

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

617

Lewis v'. Bell.

original deed of assignment, and not having sufficient legal proof
of the copy, the commissioner awarded the money to the administratrix of Lewis.
Isaac Bell, senior, assigned his right to his son, Isaac Bell,
junior, and ha soon after assigned to his brother, ihe appellee,
who instituted this proceeding'in the circuit court of the District
of Columbia, under the provisions of the act of congress of July
3, 1852.
After the institution of this suit, the original assignment was
accidentally discovered, and has been satisfactorily proven.' The
court below awarded the money to the complainant below, and
the administratrix of Lewis has taken this appeal.
The objections to the title of Edward R. Bell, as champertous,
collusive, and fraudulent, and made for the purpose of using the
father as a witness, are wholly unsustained by any evidence.
There is no principle in equity which prevents a creditor from
assigning an interest in a debt, after institution of a suit therefor, as being within the statutes against champerty and maintenance; (see 2 Story's Eq. 1049,1054;) nor will the want of a full
money consideration, as between father and son, and brother and
brother, subject the transaction to such imputation, without
further proof. The father's testimony was not offered by the
appellee in this case; we are not, therefore, bound to notice the
question of its admissibility, or the policy of permitting assign.
ments for the purpose of making the assignor a witness, on which
so much of the argument of this ease was expended.
It is contended, also, that the assignment of Lewis to Bell,
senior, is not absolute, but a security only, of some debt which
has been satisfied; and that it is voluntary, and imports a trust
between the parties.
The deed of assignment, after a recital of the capture of the
brig Caspian, and the claim preferred by the American minister
at Brazil, onbehalfof Lewis, for indemnity, proceeds as follows:"Now, know all men by these presents, that the said Stephen
J. Lewis, for and in consideration of the sum of one dollar, lawful money of the United States, to him in hand paid by Isaac
Bell, of the city of New York, merchant, the receipt whereof is
hereby acknowledged, and also for divers other good considerations him thereunto moving, hath granted, bargained, and sold,
assigned, transferred, and set over, and by these presents doth
grant, bargain, and sell, assign, transfer, and set over, unto the
said Isaac Bell, his executors, administrators, and assigns, all and
singular, the said claim, and all the, sum and sums of money
that maybe recovered or received, of and from the said Brazilian
governfment, or of and from whomsoever it may concern, for o
by reasoa of the said illegal capture, or which may arise from
52*

618

SUPREME

COURT.

Lewis v. Bell.

the proceeds of the said brig Caspian and cargo; to have and to
hold the same and every part and parcel thereof, unto him, the
said Isaac Bell, his executors, administrators, and assigns,
forever," &c., &c.
This is an absolute assignment of the whole claim of Lewis
against the Brazilian government. Besides the consideration
of one dollar, it mentions "divers other good considerations,"
without specifying them particularly.
The bill alleges that the real consideration was a large indebtQdness of Lewis to Bell, which was never paid, Lewis having
died in 1844, insolvent. This is denied by the answer. But
the evidence, as far as it affects the point, tends to establish the
correctness of the allegations of the bill. After the assignment,
Lewis does not appear to have interfered in the prosecution of
this claim, up to the time of his death, in 1844, nor did his administratrix set up a claim till the money was recovered, in 1852.
In December, 182S, it appears that Bell transmitted this assignment to his agent in Buenos Ayres, in order to prosecute the
claim, alleging that the "assignment was made by Lewis, in
consequence of advances made to him in che purchase of a brig
and cargo." In the same year, he wrote to the Hon. Henry
Clay, inclosing the protest of Lewis, in order thtit -di government might be led to urge the payment of his claim, and alleging as the reason of his interference, that Lewis was indebted to
him in the sum of $15,000, and had failed, and had therefore
made him the assignment now in question. In a letter from
Bell to Mr. Camlbreling, in 1830, urging his interference in
behalf of the Lewis claim, Bell assigns as the reason for his request, that Lewis had become indebted to him, and had no other
means of payment but through that claim; and to confirm the
whole matter beyond dispute, the counsel of the respondent below (now appellant) read in evidence the testimony of Isaac
Bell, senior3, proving the assignment to have been made in consideration of large indebtedness by Lewis to Bell, and -that
Lewis was then insolvent, and continued so to the time of his
death. By their own showing, therefore, there is ample consideration for the assignment, and not the least evidence of a secret trust.
The decree of the circuit court is, therefore, affirmed.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here
ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of
the said circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs.

