DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

399

Bogart et al. v. The Steamboat John Jay.

sive depoitories of the testator's .confidence, and that power to
be dependent on conditions upon which, and on which alone,
they should have authority to act. In the progress of events to
which the devise was necessarily incident, the powers created
and to be executed by the devisees in trust, have become impracticable and void. These depositories of the testator's confidence are all dead. The conditions on which their powers
were made dependent, never did occur, and can by no possi
bility ever occur. It follows, therefore, that, in conformity with
the will, there is no person who can act, and no subject to be
acted upon, and no beneficiaries of the contemplated action.
My opinion, therefore, is, that the devise has lapsed, or, rather,
that no right ever came into existence under it; that nothing
was ever passed by it from the estate, which descends, of course,
to the testator's heirs.
Order.
This cause came on to bd heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit cotirt of the .United States for the eastem district of Pennsylvania, and -was argued by counsel. ' On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said circuit court
in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

SEBRA lM. BOGART, WILLIAM J. WILCOX, AND LEONARD F.
FITCH, LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS, 'V.. THE STEAMBOAT
JOHN JAY, HER TACKLE, &C. GEORGE LOGAN, CLAIMANT.
The courts of the United Staies, in the exercise of admiralty and maritime jarisdiction, canerot take cognizance of questions of property between the mortgagee of a
vessel and the owner.
The mere mortgage of a ship, other than that of an hypothecated bottomry, is a
contract without any of the characteristics or attendants of a maritime loan, and,
is entered into by the parties to it, without reference to navigation or perils of the
sea.
The admiralty courts in England now exercise a more ample jurisdiction upon the
subject of mortgages of ships, but it is under a statute of Victoria; and in the
United States the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction remains as it was before.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
It was a libel filed by the appellants of the steamboat John
Jay, to enforce payment of a mortgage upon the boat, under the
circumstances stated in the opinion of the court.
The district court dismissed the libel, which decree was

400

SUPREME

COURT.

Bogart et al. v. The Steamboat John Jay.

affirmed by the circuit court, and the libellants appealed to this
court.
It was submitted on the record by .Xr. Johnson, for the appellants; and submitted by IYr. Cuttin-, for the appellee, upon a
printed brief filed by himself and Mr. Byrne.
It is only necessary to state the following points for the
appellee: First Point. The district court in admiralty had no jurisdiction of the cause of action set forth in the libel, it not being a
maritime contract, or a maritime cause of action, or dependent
on maritime risks. Hurry v. The Ship John and Alice, 1 Wash.
R. 293; The Steamboat Orleans v. Phcnbus, 11 Pet. 176; The
Atlas, 2 Hagg. Adm. R. 48, 73; Abbott on Shipping, old paging
163, new 205.
Second Point. A court of admiralty has no power to enforce
payment of a mortgage. The Dowthorpe, 2 W. Rob. 73; The
Highlander, Ib. 109; Leland v. The Medora, 2 W. & M. 92, 97,
118.
Neither has it jurisdiction to decree possession, as between
mortgagee and mortgagor. The Fruit Preserver, 2 Hagg. 181;
The Neptune, 3 Tb. 132.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We will confine ourselves, in this opinion, to the inquiry,
whether or not a court of admiralty has jurisdiction to decree
the sale of a ship for an unpaid mortgage, or can, on that
account, declare a ship to be the property of the mortgagees,
and direct the possession of her to be given to them. The
questions of pleading made in the case, and the other points
argued, we shall not notice. The conclusion at which we have
arrived makes that unnecessary.
The libellants were thd owners of the steamer John Jay.
They sold her to Joseph McMurray for the sum of $6,000;
$1,000 in cash, and the residue of $5,000 upon a credit, for
which promissory notes were given, payable to their order, in
three, six, nine, twelve, fifteen, eighteen, twenty-one, and twentyfour months. On the day of sale, McMurray, the purchaser,
executed in a single deed, containing the whole contract between
himself and the libellants, a transfer of the boat to the latter as
a security for the payment of his notes, with the proviso "that
this instrument is intended to operate only as a mortgage to
secure the full and'just payment of the eight promissory notes
given in consideration of the purchase-money of said vessel or
steamboat." McMurray failed to pay the second note. Upon
such failure the libel was filed. The libellants set out the con-

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

401

Bogart et al. v. The Steamboat John Jay.

tract; allege that it was to operate as a mortgage to secure the
payment of McMurray's notes; state his failure to pay-the
second note; claim, in the fifth article of their libel, that MeMurray's failure to pay had revested them with the title to the
boat, and that McMurray's had become forfeited, from his noncompliance -vith the cohldition conteined in the contract of sale.
Their prayer is, that they may have a decree for the amount of
the unpaid purchase-money, with interest and costs, and that
The John Jay and her equipments maybe condemned to pay the
same. Afterwards, upon their appeal in the circuit court, they
moved to amend their libel by inserting the words, "or that the
steamboat John Jay may be decreed to be their property, and
.the possession be direated to be delivered to them."
To this libel George Logan, by way of answer, put in a'tlaim
of ownership of The John Jay, by a bond fide purchase from
McMurray; and he further denies the jurisdiction of the court,
upon the ground that the contract between'the libellants and
McMurray was not maritime; or a case of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. It appears that McMurray had received the
possession of the boat; that she had been enrolled at the
custom-house in his name; that he first sold one fourth of her
to Logan, and afterwards, on the. 2d December, executed a bill
of sale for the whole of her to Logan, which was recorded in
the custom-house; and that thereupon The John Jay was enrolled and licensed in the name of Logan.
.Upon the hearing of the cause in the district court, the libel
was dismissed. It was carried, by appeal, to the circuit court
and the judgment of the district court having been affirmed, it
is now here upon appeal from the circuit court. We think that
the afrmance of the judgment of the district court was right,
and wi here briefly give our reasons for thit opinion.
It has been repeatedly decided in the admiralty and common
law courts in England, that the former have no jurisdiction in
questions of property between a.mortgagee and the owner. No
such jurisdiction has ever been exercised in the United States.
No case can be found in either country where it has been done.
In the case of The Neptune, 3 Hagg. Admiralty Reports, 132,
Sir John Nicholl, in giving his judgment, observes: "Now
upon questions of mortgage, the court of admiralty has no
jurisdiction; whether a mortgage is foreclosed, whether a mortgagee has a right to take possession of a chattel personal,
whether'he is the legal or only the equitable owner, and whether
a right of redemption means that a mortgagee is restrained
from selling in repayment of his debt till after the time specified
for the redemption is passed, the decision of these questions
belongs to other courts;
they are not within the jurisdiction or
a4

402.

SUPREME

COURT.

Bogart et al. v. The Steamboat John Jay.
ptovince of the courts of admiralty, which never decides on
questions of property between the mortgagee and owner."
This is not so, because such a jurisdiction had been denied
by the jealousy of the courts of the common law. Its foundation is, that the mere mortgage of a ship, other than that of an
hypothecated bottomry, is a contract without any of the characteristics or attendants of a maritime loan, and is entered into
by the parties to it, without reference to navigation or perils of
the sea. It is a security to make the performance of the mortgagor's undertaking more certain; and, whilst he continues in
possession of the ship, disconnecting the mortgagee from all
agency and interest in the employment and navigation of her,
and from all responsibility for contracts made on her account.
Such a mortgage has nothing in it analogous to those contracts
which are the subjects of admiralty jurisdiction. In such a
case, the ship is the object for the accomplishment of the contract, without any reference to the use of her for such a purpose,
There cannot be, then, any thing'maritime in it. A failure to
perform such a contract cannot make it maritime. A debt
secured by the mortgage of a ship does not give the ownership
of it to the mortgagee. He may use the legal title to make the
ship available for its payment. A legal title passes conditionally
to the mortgagee. Where there has been a failure to pay, he
cannot take the ship manuforti,but he must resort either to a
court of equity or to statutory remedies for the same purpose
when they exist, to bar the mortgagor's right of redemption by
a foreclosure, which is to operate at such time afterward, when
there shall be a foreclosure without a sale, as the circumstances
of the case may make it equitable to allow. Indeed, after a
final order of foreclosure has been sined and enrolled, and the
time fixed by it for the payment of the money has passed, the
decree may be opened to give further time, if there are circmnstances to make it equitable to do so, with an ability in the
mortgagor to make prompt payment. Thornhill v. Manning, 7
Eng. Rep. 97, 99, 100.
Courts of admiralty have always taken the same view of -a
mortgage of a ship, and of the remedies for the enforcement of
them, that courts of chancery have done of such a mortgage
and of any other mortgaged chattel. But, from the organization
of the former arid its modes of proceeding, they cannot secure
to the parties to such a mortgage the remedies and protection
which they have in a court of chancery. They have, therefore,
never taken jurisdiction of -such a contract to enforce its payment, or by a possessory action to try the title, or a right to the
possession of a ship. It is true that the policy of commerce
and its exigencies in England have given to its admiralty courts

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

403

West r. Cochran.
a more ample jurisdiction in respect to mortgages of ships, than
they had under its former rule, as that has been given in this
opinion. But this enlarged cognizance of mortgages of ships
has been given there by statute 3 and 4 Victoria, ch. 65." Until
that shall be done in the United States, by congress, the rule, in
this particular, must continue in the admiralty courts *of the
United States, as it has been. We affirm the decree of the
court below.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the T nited States for the southern district of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

EDWARD AL WEST,

.PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

V.

JOSEPH COCHRA.n.*

The act of congress passed on the 3d of March, 1807, (2 Stats. dt Large, 441,) ap.

pointing commissioners to adjudicate land claims against the United States, requirec
that where titles to tracts of land, which had not-been previously surveyed, were
confirmed by the board, they should be sifrveyed under the directions of the surveyor-general. When a certificate and plat should be filed in the proper office, a

-patent certificate was to issue, vhich should entitle the claimant to a patent from

the United States.
Therefore, where conflicting locations were claimed of two concessions granted by the
lieutenant-governor of Upper Louisiana, and no survey satisfactory to the publik.
officers was made until 1852, when a patent was issued in conformity with a survey
directed by the secretary of the interior, this patent was conclusive, in a court of
law, ' the location to which the party was entitled.

He could ilot, in an action of ejectment, sustain a claim that his patent ought to have

had a different location, upon the ground that the confirmation by the commissioners conferred a perfect title to different land from that covered by the patent.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Missouri.
It was an action of ejectment, brought by West a citizen of
the State of Illinois, against Cochran, a citizen of Missouri, for
all that tract or parcel of land situated in the city and county of
St. Louis, in said district, and which tract or parcel of land is
described as follows: L6t number one hundred and three, (103,)
in block number three hundred and twenty-one, as the said lot
is laid down and numbered on the map of the said city, and is
bounded on the east by Second-street beginning at the southMr. JusTICE WxAxnE, having been indisposed, did not sit in this cause.

