DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Wickliffe v.

47

Owings.

ROBERT WICKLIFFE, APPELLANT, v.

TOia.&s D. OWINGS.

Where abill in chancery avers-that the defendant is a citizen of another State, this
averment can only be impugned in a special plea to the jurisdiction of the court.
The answer is not the proper place for it, under the 33d rule of equity Drac':..s.
established by this court.
The plea of the defendant, that he had instittuted a suit against the complainant in a
state court, in the same controversy, prior to the institution of this one in the circuit
court of the United States, is not sustained by the evidence inor is the allegation
that the title of the complainant is invalid.
Upon a bill filed, under a statute of Kentucky, by a person having both the legal title
to, and the possession of, land, against a person setting up a claim thereto, for the
purpose of quieting the title, this court decides that the complainant is entitled to
relief, and proceeds to render such decree as the circuit court ought to have rendered.

THis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Kentucky, sitting as a court of equity.
It was a bill filed by Wickliffe, under a statute of Kentucky,
to quiet the title to sundry tracts of land of which the complainant was in possession,. and to which he alleged that he had the
legal title. Owings, it was averred, had remoVed to Texas, and
become a citizen of that State; but had visited Kentucky, and
set up a claim to the lands, threatening to institute suits against
the complainant.
Owings, in hits answer, denied the jurisdiction of the court,
upon the ground that he was not a citizen of Texas; denied that
the complainant had any title to the land, or, that if he had one,
* asserted that it was obtained by fraud; and alleged, that prioi
to the institu." -n of this suit, he, himself, had filed a bill against
Wickliffe, in the Bath circuit court of Kentucky, and relied on
the priority of his bill in bar of Wickliffe's suit.
The district judge, who tried the cause in the court below,
dismissed the bill, from which decree Wickliffe appealed to this
court.
It was argued for the appellant by Mr. Preston,and a brief
was also filed upon the same side by Mr . Charles A. WTic/liffe.
No counsel appeared for the appellee.
The arguments consisted chiefly in examinations of the testimony respecting the citizenship of Owings, in Texas, dnd of the
various muniments of the title of Wickliffe to the lands; and
also of a comparison of the dates of the institution of -the respective suits in the state court and in the circuit court of the United
States. As these involved no general principles of law, it is
unnecessary t9 introduce them into the report of the case.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff filed his bill in the circuit court of the United

48

SUPREME

COURT.

Wickliffe v. Owings.

States for Kentucky, against Thomas Deye Owings, by which
he assumes to be the owner, and in the lawful possession, of a
number of tracts of land, lying in different counties of that State,
which had at one time been the property of the defendant, but
of which he had been legally divested, and notwithstanding
claims, by the instigation and advice of other persons, to the
prejudice and vexation of the plaintiff. The object of the bill
is to establish the title and to quiet the possession of the plaintiff.
The facts disclosed by the record are: that, in the years 1817
and 1818, the defendant was possessed of a very large estate in
lands, but was indebted beyond his means of payment. During
those years, two of his creditors (Luke Tiernan and Samuel
Smith) respectively recovered, in the circuit court of the United
States for Kentucky, judgments for the aggregate sum of twentyfive thousand dollars and upwards; the one by default, the other
by confession. Immediately thereafter, the defendant adopted
a system of legal proceedings, to postpone the day of payment
of those judgments, which terminated in the augmentation of the
debt, and the introduction of other persons, in the character of
sureties, to share in the entanglements' of the debtor. By the
interposition of injunctions, replevin, and stay bonds, and for
the want of bidders at execution sales, the defendant withstood
his creditors until 1824.
In November, 1824, Tiernan purchased a number of the
tracts in dispute, and others in 1827 and 1834, under the executions, and for which he has the deeds of the marshal.
In 1820, Samuel Smith assigned his judgment to Ellicott and
Meredith, in trust for creditors, and these persons, between 1826
and 1829, purchased nearly, if not all, of the tracts for which
Tiernan had acquired a title.
In 1824, before any of these sales, Owings had conveyed the
lands to the sureties whom he had involved upon the bonds before referred to in these and other cases, for their indemnity, and
delivered to them the possession of the property, and ceased to
have any control of it. He gave to them authority to "sell,
dispose of, and convey any of the estate, whenever it might be
necessary for their protection," and in such cases as a majority
of them might consider as most beneficial to all concerned, in
case their principal was in default Tiernan, and Meredith and
Ellicott, in 1827, commenced suits for various parcels of the
lands they had purchased at the marshal's sales, in the circuit
The
court of the United States, and recovered judgments.
questions involved in the issues, appear to be the regularity of
the sales by- which they acquired title. In 1829, after a portion
of these trials, the sureties and assignees of Owings executed a
deed to Ellicott and Meredith, for the tracts of land described in

DECOEMBER TERM,

1854.

49

Wickliffe v. Owings.

the bill, upon "a general compromise" with them, by which the
debt to Samuel Smith, with the various bonds taken to secure
it, were surrendered to be cancelled. The record shows that
Owings was advised of this settlement, and expressed approbation of it. Some time after this settlement with the assignees
of Owings, an arrangement was concluded between Tiernan,
Ellicott, and Meredith, and the Bank of the United States, by
which the bank agreed to reimburse Tiernan for his debt and
advances, and to cancel an indebtedness of Smith, and to take
the title to the property they had acquired by these proceedings.
This arrangement was carried into effect by a suit in the circuit
court of the United States, in which a sale was ordered, -at
which, in 1834 and 1835, the bank became the purchaser.
In 1836, the bank sold its title to the plaintiff in this suit. • In
order to free the title from any imperfections, a bill was filed in
the circuit court of Bath county, Kentucky; and in that suit, the
titles of Tiernan, Ellicott, and Meredith, and the bank, were, in
1848, conveyed to him.
In the course of these proceedings, a number of confirmatory
deeds were taken from purchasers of portions of the property at
the marshal's sales, which it is unimportant to describe. To
appreciate fully the case of the plaintiff, it is proper to notice a
-r.Bascom, the son-in4aw and
transaction between him and
attorney in fact of Owings, in 1837. The plaintiff, after the
acquisition of his titles from the bank, instituted suits for the
recovery of the family residence and other lands of the defendant, in the courts of Kentucky. At the trial term of these
suits, a proposal for an adjustment was submitted to the plaintiff,
by Mr. Bascom, (under the advice of counsel,) which was ac-.
cepted by him. He agreed to convey to Mrs. Bascom the family
residence and other lots, a balance due on the judgment of Tiernan, to release the claim for mesne profits, and to dismiss the
suits pending, each party to pay costs. Owings and Bascom
were to confirm the title acquired by the plaintiff, to- the lands
described in the bill. This settlement was executed by the
delivery of the proper evidences of title. Those in the name of
Owings were executed by Bascom, as his attorney in fact.
The land conveyed to Mrs. Bascom has remained in the
family till this time, and in 1847 was divided among the childien of Owings, in a suit to which he was a party. The validity
of the conveyance of Wickliffe to her, was asserted in that suit,
and admitted in the decree of the court, as the basis upon which
itwas founded. Owings, in 1836 or 1837, left the United States
for Texas; during the interval, from 1837 to 1849, the plaintiff
was in the open possession of the property.- Before the departare of Owings, the plaintiff had offered to reconvey to him the
VOL. XVII.

5

50

SUPREME COURT.
Wickliffe v. Owings.

whole of his purchases, upon an extdnded credit and a reduced
rate of interest, for the consideration of the debts and costs they
represented; which proposal Owings acknovledged his inability
to accept, and fulfil the obligations he would thus incur. In
1849, he was induced to return to the United States, and to
renew the controversy which had been so long pending, by the
assertion of pretensions hostile to the title of the plaintiff, and
prejudicial to his useful and peaceful enjoyment.
The evidence shows that the lands are in the possession of the
plaintiff, occupied by a numerous body of tenantry; that sales
have been obstructed and rents diminished by the assertion of
these claims.
The right of the plaintiff to relief is rested upon the general
principles of equity, as well as a statute of Kentucky, to the effect
"that any person having both the legal title to, and the possession of land, may institute a suit against any other person
setting up a claim thereto, and if the complainant .shall establish
his title the defendant shall be decreed to release his claim." 1
Bro. and More, Stat. 294.
The jurisdiction of a court of chancery'to grant perpetual
injunctions for quieting inheritances, after the right and matter
in question has been fairly settled by concurring verdicts, has
been long established; and, in addition to this general ground
for equitable interference, this case presents a strong claim for
the interposition of the court, arising from the settlement between
Bascom, as the attorney in fact of the defendant, and the plaintiff.
The consideration of that settlement has been enjoyed for many
years, by the family of Owings. We conclude that this arrangement, embracing the fact that a confirmatory deed to the plaintif
had been executed in his name, under the letter of attorney to
Bascom, was communicated to him, and that it received his
approbation. If additional assurances were, therefore, required
to perfect the title of the plaintiffi and to maintain his quiet
enjoyment, it is the duty of the court to exact them.
But if a question might arise upon the facts of this case, upon
this branch of it, there will be none when we connect it with
the statute-of Kentucky:
"When the nature of our conflicting titles," says the supreme
court of that State, "whether derived from the laws of Virginia
or of this State, are considered, there is an apparent necessity
of permitting the holder of the legal estate to call his -adversary
to the test when it cannot be otherwise reached. This act ought
to be liberally expounded as , remedial statute." Cates v.
Loftus, 4 Mon. 439.
And in accordance with this view, that court decreed a release
to one, having the legal title and possession from one who "pre-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

51

Wickliffe v. Owings.

tended a claim under a vague and void entry, without equity."
1 Mon. 97.
And in another case, where the party in possession with title
averred "that the defendants pretended to have a claim upon
it, and thereby disparaged his title, and obstructed him in the
full enjoyment of his property." Armitage v. Wickliffe, 12 B.
Mon. 488.
This statute is too important a portion of the law of property
in Kentucky, to be disregarded in the exercise of the equitable
powers of the courts of the United States in that State; and
without affirming that it can be so fully applied under the constitution of those courts as by the State tribunals, we are satisfied
that its protection may be properly invoked in cases like the
present. Clark. v. Smith, 13 Pet 195. The statement of
the plaintiff's title shows that the lands described in his bill
were sold as the property of the defendant, by a public officer,
with legal process, issued upon valid judgments, and that the
title of the purchasers have vested in him; that this title has.
been submitted to a court of law, and maintained in a succession
of trials; that besides, the sureties who were bound for these
judgments, and to whom the lands were delivered by the defend-.
ant for their indemnity, with powers to use them for that purpose,
hate transferred them, to relieve themselves and their principal,
to the grantors of the plaintiff; that, in addition, the son-in-law,.
agent and attorney of the defendant, to preserve- a portion of
his estate for his family, has confirmed in his name the title of
the plaintifl as we are bound to believe, with the knowledge
and acquiescence of his principal, and that family still retains
the consideration of this deed; fiiially, that the plaintiff, and those
whose ttlie he has, has been in possession since 1824.
The defendant resists the suit of the plaintiff for relief, by a
denial, in his answer, of the averment that he is a citizen of Texas,
and consequently the jurisdiction of the court. 2. By the plea.
that before this suit was commenced he had instituted one in
the circuit court of Bath, Kentucky, contesting the plaintiff's
title and provoking a full investigation into its validity, and that
he could not.be restrained from its prosecution there. 3. That
the sales by the marshal were invalid, and that the conveyance
executed by Bascom in his name to the plaintiff is void, for misrepresentation, fraud, and the want of consideration.
The doctrine of this court is settled, that when the jurisdiction
of the circuit court appears, by proper averments, on the record,
the defendant can only impuga-it in a special plea. The 39th
rule of practice for courts of equity in the United States, adopted
by this court, excludes "matters of abatement, objections to
the character of parties andto matters of form," from the answer,

SUPREME

COURT.

Wickliffe v. Owiugs.

and confines its operation to " matters in bar, or to the merits of
the bill." It is proper to say, that if the fact of citizenship was
open to inquiry, the evidence sustnihs the allegation of the bill.
2. 'Whether we consider the commencement of the suit as
dependent upon the filing of the bill with the clerk of the court,
or the issue, service, or return of process upon it, there is no
sanction in the evidence for the plea by the defendant of a prior
suit pending in the circuit court of Bath county. The plaintiff's
bill was filed and process issued before that of the defendant
was entered, and the process from the court of the United States
was executed more than a year before the service of a subpcana
to answer, on the plaintiff. Nor are the imputations of fraud,
oppression, and injustice, upon the conduct of the plaintifi nor
the charges that he acquired his titles by corrupt and champertous contracts, better supported. No evidence has been taken
which authorizes the crimination of the plaintiff by such allegations, in any part of the complicated and involved controversies
which he seeks by this bill to close.
Our conclusion is, that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief he
asks Ior, and that the decree of the circuit court must be reversed,
and a decree entered here conformable to this opinion.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the record,
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On eonsideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, reversed and annulled.
And this bourt, proceeding to render such decree as the said
circuit court ought to have rendered, doth order, adjudge, and
decree, that the complainant has shown a legal title to all those
tracts or parcels of land which are described and set forth in the
two deeds in the record, executed by Owings and Bascom, dated
6th April, 1837, and marked No. 54, and by A. Trombo, commissioner, dated 25th day of September, 1848, and marked No.
58,in both of which the said complainant is the grantee, but
excepting from this d~cree the lands which were conveyed to
Mary N. Bascomb, by the said complainant, the 6th April, 1837,
and as to which this decree has no application.
And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that the said complainant has shown sufficien' matter of equity
to entitle him to a release, by Thomas D. Owl gs, or his heirs at
law or dev'isees, or other legal representatives, of all their claim,
and to be quieted in the possession and enjoyment of the said
parcels of land.

DECEMBER TERM,
Raymond v.

1854.

Tyson.

And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said
complainan ,do recover his costs in this cause in this court, of
and from the said defendant.
It is therefore further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this
court, that this cause be and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said circuit court, with instructions to cause an appropriate deed
of release and quitclaim to be prepared and executed by the
said defendant, or his heirs at law or devisees, or other legal
representatives of their rights, as aforesaid, and also that the said
court issue an injunction to them commanding their agents, and
attorneys, aiders and abettors, to refrain perpetually, from any
molestation or disturbance of the right and possession of the said
complainant, under any title of the said Thomas D. OwinP, and
that the said circuit court do execute and carry into effect all
the provisions of the aforesaid decree of this court.

ISRAEL W. RAYMOND, OWNER AND CLAIMANT OF THE CARGO OF
THE SHIP ORPHAN, CONSISTING OF 844 TONS OF COAL, APPELLANT, V WILLIA?,t TysoN, LIBELLANT.
A charter-party is an informal instrument, often having inaccurate clauses, which
ought to have a liberal construction-, in furtherance of the real intention of the
parties and usage of trade.
Cases cited to illustrate and explain this rule.
Though the owner of a ship, of which th h
re
the lessee, but freighter
only, has a lieu upon th cargo for freight, properly so called, and also for a sum
agreed to be paid for the use and hire of the ship, his lien may be considered as
having
been waived,
without express
words
to that
if thereare
in
the charter-party
inconsistent
with the
exercise
of effect,
the lien,
or when itstipniations
can fairly be
inferred that the ownermeant to trust to the personal responsibility of the charterer.
The American
and chartered
English cases
this subject
examined.
Whre
a ship was
for aupon
voyage
from Lonton
direct, or fUm thence to
Cardiff,
in
"Wales,
(if
required,)
to
load
port
or ports might
on the elect,
Pacitie, where she
was to be cmployed between such portsfor
as athe
charterers
thence to be
returned back, either to New York or Great Britain, their option;
the time
lt for
her employment being to the full term of fifteen months, with a privilege to the
charterers
extendpayable
it to twenty-four
mouths;,
the charterers p.aying, two thousan"d
dolars pertomonth,
i New York
semi-annuall;
the circumstances of the
case indicate that the owner meant toi waive his lieu up'on the cargo for freight, and
trust to the personal responsibility of
charterer.
te
The
shipresponsible
ha :ing arrived
at S-an
:Francisco,
with
a cargo of coal, a libel filed to hold th~e
cargo
for the
freight,
ought to
have
been dismissed.

THISa as an appeal from the disrict court of the United
States for the northern district of California. The libel was
filed in the district court, held by Mr. Ogden Hoffman, J., who
decreed that the libellant: Tyson, had a lien upon the cargo of
coal, for the sum of telve ithOUsoan dollars. The libellant was
5*

