DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

815

Clark v. Clark et al.

FERDINAND

CLARK, APPELLANT, v. BENAMIN
WILLIAm H. Y. HACKETT.

C.

CLAK ,AND

Where a person took the benefit of the bankrupt law of the United States; omitted,
in first schedule of property, to take any notice of a dlaim which he had against
the-Mexicau Republic, for he unlawful seizure of the cargo of a vessel; filed an
amended schedule, in which lie mentioned the claim so indistinctly as togive no
information of its value, although he was then prosecuting it before the board of
commissioners ; concealed the evidence of the property, so that the assignee in
bankruptcy reported that it was of no value, and sold the whole, for a nominal
consideration, to the sister of the bankrupt, who afterwards transferred it to him;
the purchkse was fraudulent,under the 4th section of the bankrupt law , and also
by the general principles of equity.
Where a creditor of the bankrupt filed his bill, and gave his bond within thirty days
after the award of the board of commissioners, this was sufficient within the 8th
section of the act of March 3; 1849, to carry into effect our treaty with Mlexico.
The creditor was a cestui qud trust of the fund, and had a right to intervene, as the
assignee in bankruptcy was dead. This was sufficient to give jurisdiction to the
court. His not having proved his debt did not debar him of this right. Another
assignee was appointed, and filed his claim without loss of time.
The 8th section of the bankrupt law, limiting actions to two years after the bankruptcy, relates only to suits brought against persons who have claims to property,
or rights of property surrendered by the bankrupt. And, moreover, no right of
action accrued until the fund existed

THInS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of
Washington.
Ferdinand Clark, the appellant, prosecuted a clpm before the
commissioners -Who acted uhlder the treaty between the United
States and Mexico,.which claim -was for the unlawful seizure
of the cargo of a vessel called The Louisiana. The commissioners awarded to him $86,786.29; out of which there was
deducted, by agreement, a sum of money, as compensation to
the agents employed in its recovery; leaving $69,429.04.
The award was made on the 15th of April, 1851, and, on the
15th of May following, Benjamin C. Clark, of Boston, filed a
creditor's bill in the circuit court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, claiming the- fund, for himself and other
creditors of Ferdinand, Clark, who had taken the benefit of the
bankrupt law of the United States, on the 22d March, 1843,
in the State of New Hampshire. Soon after this bill was filed,
namely, on the 30th AMay, Hackett, the then assignee in bankruptcy of Ferdinand Clark, filed his bill, also claiming the entire
fund, for the purpose of distribution amongst the creditors;
Palmer, the' original assignee in bankruptcy, had died, and
Hackett was appointed in his place.
The substance of Hackett's bill was as follows In this bill, Hackett sets forth his appointment as assignee, ii

316

SUrRIME COURT.
Clark v. Clark et al.

place of Palmer,-deceased, and prays for leave to come in, under
the prayer of the original bill of B. C. Clark, and to be made
complainant in said cause. He then avers that Ferdinand
Clark was duly and regularly declared a bankrupt, in 1843, and
that all his property and effects passed out of the bankrupt, and
vested in the assignee, Palmer, who was regularly appointed,
and is since dead, leaving the proceeding in bankruptcy still
pending.; that the bankrupt had, among his assets, a claim on
the Republic of Mtxico, which.is the claim in satisfaction of
-which the award in controversy was made; that the said claim
was not described in any manner to make the same available
to his creditors, and that no such evidences as would enable
him to recover said claim were put into the hands of the
assignee; and- that the assignee was ignorant of the true value
of the assets, and that he, therefore, reported them to the court
as of no value; that no right, title, or interest in said claim,
ever passed out of said assignee, or became revested in said
bankrupt; that said bankrupt had since prosecuted said claim,
in his own right, falsely and fraudulently claiming that his
debts in bankruptcy had been satisfied, and that said claim had
revested in him; that the amount of said award legally berongs
to complainant, as assignee. The complainant then submits,
that the said Benjamin C. Clark and others, the creditors of said
Ferdinand at the date of his bankruptcy, being in the condition
of cestuis que trust whose trustee is dead, have complied with the
4rue intent and'meaning of the act of congress. Prayer for an
injunction and general relief.
The answer to this bill, amongst other things,
Admits that defendant had among his assets a claim against
Mexico, and that the claim on which the award was made is
the same ; admits that said claim was set down in the schedule, but denies that it was not described so as to make the
same available to his creditors; and he expressly and particularly denies that such evidences and information as would
have enabled said assignee to recover said claim were fraudulently withheld by this defendant, and denies that his assets
and effects generally were so described in his schedules. that
the assignee was in ignorance of their true value; avers that
this Mlexican claim was expressly mentioned in said schedule,
in the manner demanded by the rules and practice of the district court of New Hampshire; that said claim was mentioned
as subject to a mortgage.; that such mortgage did exist, in fact;
that he did not know the. amount thereof, but verily believed it
to be more than the value of the claim; that no value was set
to said claim, because he believed, and had reason to believe,
that said claim was wholly without value" that defendant con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

317

Clark v. Cldrk et al.

municated to Palmer, the assignee, the" situation of Ol--h&
claims mentioned in his schedules; that all the papers 'and
evidences in support of said Mexican claim were not in his
E ossession, but had been, in the year 1842 or.earlier, filed pubely before the commissioners- appointed under the"'cbnvention
of April 11, 1839, and were afterwards placed, and, at the time
of the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, vere
in the public archives of the government of the United States,
and there remained till the time of said award.
The defendant then sets forth more particularly the bankrupt
proceedings up to his discharge, on the 17th December, 1844,
from all debts then- owing by him. H6 states thai notice of
the proceedings in bankruptcy was published in the leading
papers -inthe district, and that noticey personally and by letter,
was also .served on all creditors, whose iesidence was known;
that, notwithstanding this, no creditor ever filed in the district
court any-proof of debt, or any objections to the proceedings in
bankruptcy, or to the doings of the assignee, until after the
award was made.
The answer then avers, that on the i4th day of March, 1845,
the assignee filed a petition for an order to sell the. estate of the
defendant, and on the 14th it was so ordered; that, in pursuance of said order, Palmer did, on the 9th day of April, 1845,.
after posting up advertisements, &c., sell at public auction all
the estate and demands of the bankrupt, mentioned in the
schedules attached to the petition of Ferdinand Clark to be
declared bankrupt, to R. M. Clark, and that, by sale, said Mexican claim passed to said R. M. Clark. And the answer denies
all artifice or fraud to depress the value of said demands, or this
Mexican claim particularly; that on the 9th of April, 1845, said
Palmer executed a formal bill of sale, with schedules attached
to it, in which schedules this Mexican claim was included; that
on the 10th April, 1845, defendant purchased, for valuable consideration, all the said property from R. M. Clark, including said
claim; that he has prosecuted said claim in his own name, and
at his own risk and expense; that complainant has not filed
his notice with the secretary, according to the provisions of the
8th section of the act of March 3, 1849.
On the 2d of June, 1851, the circuit court issued an injunction, restraining the secretary of the treasury from paying, and
Ferdinand Clark from receiving, the amount of the award,
until the urther order of the court.
The 8th section of the act of March 3; 1849, (9 Stats. at
Large, 394,) authofized any person, who claimed any part of
an award, to file a bill; and directed the fund to remain in the
treasury, to await the decision of the courts.
27*

318

SUPREME COURT.
Clark v. Clark et al.

The case went on in the circuit court, and much testimony
was taken. A part of it related to the proceedings in the bankrupt court of New Hampshire, which are summarily referred to
in the opinion of the court, and need not be further noticed
here.
On the 30th of May, 1853, the circuit court decreed that the
fund should be paid over to Hackett, for distibution in the
bankrupt court of New Hampshire, amongst the creditors of
Ferdinand Clark.
From this decree, Clark appealed to this court
It was argued by Mr. Lawrence and .Mr. Nelson, for the appellant, and by Mr. Carlisle and Mr. Johnson, for the appellee.
The arguments consisted chiefly in the examination of, and
comments upon, the facts in the case.
The following points of law were made by Mr. Lawrence :
1. That B. C. Clark, the complainant in the original bill, had
no standing in court at all, he being a mere general creditor at
the time of bankruptcy of appellant, and his debt having been
discharged by the bankruptcy and proceedings thereon.
2. That there was no privity between B. C. Clark (who had
never made himself a party to the bankrupt proceedings at all)
and the assignee in bankruptcy; but that Hackett, the assignee,
must stand upon his own compliance with the 8th section of
the act of 3d March, 1849, or else fall.
3. That the circuit court of the District of Columbia had no
jurisdiction in this case, except that conferred by said 8th section. The fund was in the treasury of the United States, and
the parties were non-residents. Inasmuch as Hackett, the assignee, had not given the bond nor filed the notice specified in
said 8th section, upon which the jurisdiction of the court was
to attach, the bill should have been dismissed.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Ferdinand Clark applied for the benefit of the bankrupt law,
and filed a schedule of his debts, and another of his property
and rights of property.. Pursuant to the latter schedule, the
assignee in bankruptcy sold all Clark's interest in the property,
and rights of property, at auction, for the sum of two dollars;
Clark himself bidding at the sale, but ordering the title to be
made by the assignee to his (Clark's) sister, who relinquished
to him by a formal deed on the next day. By virtue of this purchase Clark claims to be bond fide owner of all the property, and
rights of property, he had given in or indicated on his schedule.
The bill alleges that the claim against the Republic of Mexico,

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

319

Clark v. Clark et al.

for an unlawful seizure of the cargo of a vessel owned by the
bankrupt, called The Louisiana, the proceeds of which are in
dispute, was not described in any manner to malke the same
available to Clark's creditors; nor was any such information or
evidences of the claim put into possession of the assignee as
would .enable him to recover it, but that all the information and
evidences were fraudulently withheld by said bankrupt, and that
his assels and effects generally were so described in his schedule
that the assignee was ignorant of their true value, and in fact reported to the court that the same could not be sold; and that
because of this fraud the sale was void.
This allegation is put in issue by the answer, and was sustained by the circuit court, which ordered the moneys awarded to
Clark by the commssioners, acting under our treaty of peace
with Mexico, to be paid over to the assignee in bankruptcy, and
distributed by him, among the bankrupt's creditors. From this.
decree Clark appealed.
If the right of property to the claim for indemnity was concealed so that the assets were sold for a nominal amount, and
to Clark himself in the name of his sister, then Clark's purchase
was fraudulent, and the decree below, setting aside the purchasq,
was proper. This is the rule prescribed by the 4th section of the
bankrupt law; and which rule would be enforced by the general
principles governing a court of equity, independently of the
bankrupt law.
In his first schedule, the bankrupt did not mention the claim
against the Republic of Mexico, but in an amendment, Aled in
December, 1844, after he had received his discharge, this claim
is alluded to in connection with others, as follows " United States government of America?' - Claim.
do.
Spanish government,
do.
Buenos Ayres government,
" Mexican Republic subject to a mortgage."
This statement gave no information that the bankrupt claimed
remuneration against the government of Mexico for an illegal
seizure of the cargo of the schooner Louisiana. The proof is
that Clark was prosecuting this claim before he applied for the
benefit of the bankrupt law, which was in January, 1843, and
relied on its ultimate recognition and payment through commissioners acting under treaties with Mexico. He continued to
pursue the claim, steadily and earnestly, up to the time it was
allowed in 1b51, when there was awarded to him 86,786120 dollars.
Clark's letters to Mr. Caustin, his agent in Washington, who
prosecuted the claim, show, as does the deposition of Mr. Caustin,

820

SUPREME COURT.
Clark v. Clark et al.

also, that in December, 1844, when the amended schedule was
filed, the bankrupt had a right to expect ultimate success, and
did rely on it with much confidence. Clark's papers and correspondence were extensive in regard to the matter, and which
must have been concealed from the assignee in bankruptcy, or
he would not have reported the assets as of no value in 184.5,
when they were sold.
From the obscurity of the schedule, and the concealment of
the evidences of a right of property from the assignee and the
creditors, we feel satisfied that the bankrupt intended to rid
himself of his debts, and to secure to himself the effects in dispute by contrivance, and that part of the contrivance was a
purchase in the name of his sister, for his own benefit.
Some minor objections to the decree below have been raised,
which it is proper to notice.
First, it is insisted that the circuit court of the District of Columbia had no jurisdiction of the parties under the act of March
3, 1849, ยง 8, to carry into effect our treaty with Mexico of
1848. The 8th section provides that in all cases arising under
the act, where any person or persons other than those in whose
favor the award was made, claimed the money awarded, should
within thirty days after the date of the award notify the secretary
of the treasury of his intention to contest the payment of the
money to the party to whom it .was awarded, and file with the
district attorney a bond, &c., then the money should be retained
in the treasury, subject to legal investigation in the courts of
justice; and the .party claiming the fund might file his bill in
the circuit court in the District of Columbia, which should have
jurisdiction to determine the right of property. In this instance
the award was made on the 15th day of April, 1851, and on the
15th day of May following, Benjamin C. Clark, of Boston, ajudgment creditor, filed his bill in the circuit court claiming the fund
awarded to Ferdinand Clark, and gave the notice and bond
required by the act of 1849, ยง 8.
This was a creditor's bill, on behalf of the complainant and
all other creditors of the bankrupt, and which alleged that the
complainant had reason to believe the assignee, Palmer, was
dead, and invites him, if living, or any subsequent assignee that
might be appointed, to come in, &c. It was ascertained that
Palmer was dead, and Hackett was appointed successor to Palmer, May 19,1851, and on tho 30th day of that month made himself a party to Benjamin C. Clark's bill, by petition in the nature
of an o~iginal bill. Other creditors came in, likewise, but all of
them after the thirty days had expired.
It is insisted that Benjamin C. Clark, as a general creditor of
the bankrupt, had no standing in court, his debt having been dis-

DECEMB
BER TERM, 1854.

821

Clark v. Clark et al.

charged by the certificate of bankruptcy. Secondly, that Clark
had never made himself a party to the bankrupt proceed'ngs; by
proving his debt, and thereffre Hackett must stand on his own
bill, and cannot connect hinself with that of Clark.
3. " That the circuit court of the District of Columbia had
no jurisdiction in this case, except that conferred by said 8th
section. The fund was in the treasury of the United States,
and the parties were non-residents. Inasmuch as Hackett, the
assignee, had not given the bond nor filed the notiie specified
in said 8th section, upon which the jurisdiction of the court was
to attach, the bill should have been dismissed."
The bankrupt is personally discharged from -his debts, and so
are his future acquisitions; but, the property and rights of
property which vested in the assignee are subject to the creditors
of the bankrupt, as -theywere. liable in his hands before he applied for the benefit of the act; and the -money in controversy
was held in trust for the creditors, in whatsoever hands it was
:ound. Benjamin C. Clark wag a cestui que trust, and the
trea.'ury a stakeholder between Ferdinand Clark and his creditors; Palmer, the assignee, had dieq, and there being no trustee,
the creditor had a right to file a bill and detain the'fund for the
creditors generally, to be administered' by an assignee subsequently appointed by the bankrupt court.
The circumstance that Benjamin C. Clark has not proved his
debt, and made himself a party to the proceedings in bankruptcy,
is Immaterial; the proof that debts were owing by Ferdinand
Clark can be made at such times as the ltankrupt'court may
prescribe by its rules and orders ; and we are not aware that any
objection can be interposed to reject Benjamin C. Clark's claim
in the bankrupt court of New Hampshire. All the creditors seem
to be in the same condition, no one having proved his debt.
Benjamin C. Clark having the right to sue and detain the fund
in the treasury, Hackett could properly come in, and make himself a party to the proceeding.
It is also insisted that this action is barred by the 8th section
of the hankrupt law, which provides that no suit shall be maintainable against any person claiming an adverse interest touch
ing property or rights of property surrendered, by the bankrupt,
unless the same shall be brought within two years after the declaration and decree in bankruptcy, or after the cause of action
shall first have accrued:
The interest adversely claimed, and which the statute protects,
if not sued for within two years, is an interest in a claimant
other than the bankrupt; but, supposing that Ferdinand Clark
had been placed in that condition, as to the fund in the treasury,
by his pretended purchase of-his own assets, yet as no cause of

322

SUPREME

COURT.

Booth v. Clark.

action accrued to the assignee in bankruptcy against Clark,

until he got possession of the money, and as he never held the
fund adversely, it follows that the act does not apply; but if
it did, the fund had if existence till the award was made, which
was only thirty days before the suit was brought. We order
that the decree of the circuit court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on transcript of the record from

the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered,

adjudged, and decreed by this court that the decree of the said
circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed,

with costs.

WILLIAM

A. BOOTm, APPELLANT,

V. FERDINAND CLARK.

There was a judgment recovered in the supreme court of New York, 'spon which a
fieri facias was issued, the return to which was, "no goods, chattels, or real estate
of the defendant to be levied upon."
The creditor then filed a creditor's bill before the chancellor of the first circuit in
the State of New York, to subject the equitable assets and choses in action of the
debtor to his judgment. The bill was taken pro confesso, and, in 1842, a ieceiver
was appointed. The debtor was also enjoined from making any disposition of his
estate, legal or equitable; but the court had not been applied to, either by the
creditor or the receiver, for any order upon the debtor, in personam, to coerce his
compliance with the injunction or decree.
In 1843, the debtor went into another State and took the benefit of the bankrupt law
of the United'States. An, assignee was appointed, and, after his death, another
person to succeed him.
In 1851, a sum of money was awarded to the debtor for a claim accruing anterior to
the judgment, by the commissioners under the Mexican treaty, which was claimed
by the receiver and also by the assignee in bankruptcy, both prosecuting their
claims in the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
The assignee in bankruptcy has the best right to the fund.
A receiver is an officer of the court which appoints him, but cannot sue, in a foreign
jurisdiction, for the property of the debtor.
The proper course would be to compel obedience to the injunction, by a coercion of
the person of the debtor, obliging him either to bring the property in dispute within the jurisdiction of the court, or to execute such a conveyance or transfer thereof,
as will be sufficient to vest the legal title as'well as the possession of the property,
according to thd lex loci rei sitc.
The New York and Eiglish cases upon this subject examined.
The distinction between a receiver in chancery under a creditor's bill and an assignee
in bankruptcy explained.
In England, an assignee in bankruptcy is held to be vested with the personal property
of the bankrupt which is in foreign countries ; and her courts acknowledge the validity of the title of a foreign assignee to property in England, when sch title
emanates from a country which has a bankrupt law similar to her.own.
But this rule does not prevail in the Uned" States, either as regards a foreign assignee
. or an assignee under the laws of another State in the Union. The reason is

