DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

85

United States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods.

it being equally disconnected with the patent of 1843, and the
reissued and corrected patent of 1849, it can have no effect on
the claim 6f the plaintiff
We think the court also erred in saying to the jury, "IWe
instruct you that your verdict, in ,each case, must be for the
defendants."
This,- as well as the two instructions above noticed, took
from the jury facts which it was their province to examine and
determine. It was the right of the jury to determine, from the
facts in the case, whether the specifications, including the claim,
were so precise as to enable any person skilled in the structure
of machines, to make the one described.. This the statute
reauires, and of this the jury are to judge.
The jury are also to judge of the novelty of the invention',
and whether the renewed patent is for the same invention as
the original patent; and they are to determine whether the
invention has been abandoned to the public. There are other
questions of fact -which come within the province of a jury;
such as the identity of the machine used by the defendant with
that of the plaintiff's, or whether they have been constructed'
and act on the same prineiple.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause is remanded to the
circuit court for further proceedings.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the eastem district of Pennsylvania, and was rgued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this
cause be and-the same is hereby reversed, with costs; and
that this cause be and the same i§ hereby remanded to the
said circuit court with directions to award a venire facias de

THE UNITED

STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. SIXTY-SEVEN

. PACKAGES OF DRY GOODS. JULES LEvoIs, CLAIMANT.

The 66th section of the act of 1799, (1Stat. at L."re. t77, elf.
22,) which declares
that ".if any goods, wares, or meichandise, of which entry shall have been made in
the office of a collector, sha.U not be invoiced according to the actual cost thereot, at
the place-of exportation, with design to evade the duties thereupon, or any part
thereof, all such goods, &e., or the value thereof, to be recovered of the person mak8
VOL. XVII.

86

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods.
ing the entry, shall be forfeited," has not been repealed by any provision in the act
of 1842, or in any of the duty acts, but still exists in full force and effect.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
A libel of information was filed in the district court, by the
collector of the port of New Orleans, on behalf of himself and
the United States, for the condemnation and forfeiture of sixtyseven packages of goods, on account of an alleged fraud upon
the revenue, charging, among other things, in the information,
that the goods were entered at the custom-house, upon the prqduction of an invoice, in which they were invoiced at a less
sum than the actual cost thereof at the place of exportation,
with a design to evade the duties.
Jules Levois, of New Orleans, filed a claim to the goods, and
the cause came up for trial in March, 1850, when the jury,
under the instructions of the court, found a verdict for the
claimant.
A bill of exceptions was taken by Mr/h. _Hrunton, distria
attorney of the United States, which, being short, is here inserted,
as follows: Be it remembered, that on the trial of this cause the plaintiff
offered in evidence the following documents, n-qmbered as
follows: No. 1. Warehouse entry of five packages with extract invoice.
2. Import entry of sixty-two packages.
3. Report of United States appraisers.
" 4. United States appraiser's valuation.
do.
5. Merchant appraiser's
6: Copy of interrogatories propounded by appraisers to
P. D. Duval.
" 7. Call for letters.
" 8. Call for reply to interrogatories.
" 9. Letter from Mr. Duval to United States appraisers.
" 10. Paper found by appraisers in case No. 81.
" 11. Invoice -inwhich the entries were made.
The following witnesses were introduced: R. J. Canfield, who stated that he was one of the appraisers
in the custom-house of New Orleans, proved the several documents offered in evidence; that P. D. Duval, the partner or
agent of claimant, made the entry at the custom-house; his
refusal to answer the interrogatories propounded; stated that
from his experience as appraiser, he was familiar with the valuation and cost of such goods as were contained in the invoice
on which the entries were made; stated that the goods were
invoiced at less than the actual cost, as he believed, and at less

DECEMbER TERM,

1854.

87

United States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods.

than their actual value in the foreign market from whence they
were imported, to the extent shown by the valuation offered in
evidence; that he had made a particular examination of the
several packages seized. He proved that the paper marked
No. 10 was found by the appraisers, in case No. S1, and that the
same arficle§ contained in that paper were invoiced at
Philip Simms, A. Duthel, E. D. Hyde, iMr. Letchford, were
also introduced as witnesses on the part of the United States, all
of whom were importing merchants in the city of New Orleans,
and had imported like goods as those seized, from Liverpool,
about the same time; some had received importations by the
same ship that brought out those in controversy; all of !hem
confirmed the merchants' valuation, as shown in paper No. 5,
and concurred in saying that. the said goods were invoiced at
least twenty-five per centum lower than actual cost or value in
the foreign market. It was proven that cotton goods had
advanced durinlg the spring and summer of 1849. Mr. RiIlard
said, that all of the goods in the invoice were hivoiced at less
than the actual value; some of them, however, not more than
ten or fifteeti per centum, in his judgment. Ald thereupon,
the court instructed the jury as follows, namely 1. ThaEt the 66th section of the act of congress of the 2d
March, 1799, in so far as it imposes the penalty of forfeiture of
any good, wares, and merchandise, of which entry shall have
been made in the office of a collector, and which shall not be
invoiced according to the actual cost thereof, is inconsistent
with, and repugnant to, the 13th and 15th sections of the act of 1st
March, 1823, imposing a penalty of additionalbduties on goods
entered under fraudulent invoice; and in so far as said inconsistency and repugnancy existed, the said act of 1799 was
repealed by said act of 1823.
2. That the said 66th section of the act of congress of the 2d
March, 1799, was, to The same extent as aforesaid, repugnant
to, and inconsistent with, the 17th section of the act of 30th
August, 1842, and is, to the same extent, repealed by said act
of 1842.
3. That the proccedings directed and authorized by the 17th
section of the act of 1843, having been proved by the United
States to have taken place against the inerchamidise therein
-allegedto be forfeited to the government, it was the duty of the
collector to have levied and collected the additional duty which,
by said 17th section, is imposed as a penalty on goods which
shall be appraised, estimated, and ascertained to exceed, the
invoice value; that said penalty is inconsistent with, and repugnant to, the penalty of forfeitures, as imposed by any preceding law of congress; that the said section of said act of 1842,

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods.

and the other sections of said last-named act, do, by implication,
repeal all previous provisions of all acts of congress imposing
the penalty of forfeiture of merchandise which is falsely valued
in an invoice, or of which the actual cost has not been stated
in the invoice under which their entry is made.
And also instructed the jury that there was at present no law
in force authbrizing the forfeiture of the said goods for the causes
set forth in the libel. To which instrudtions and charge, the
United States, by their attorney, except, and pray that this bill
may be signed, sealed, and entered of record; which is done.
(Signed)
THEO. H. MoCALEB; [Seal.]
United States T4ge.
In May, 1853, the cause came on for trial before the circuit
court of the United States, when the judgment of the district
court was affirmed.
A writ of error brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Cushing (attorney-general) for the
United States. No counsel appeared for the appellee.
Mr. Cushing reviewed the provisions of the act of March 1,
1823, 13th and 15th sections, (3 Stat. at Large, 734, ch. 2,)
and the 17th section of the act of 30th August, 1842; (5 Stat.
at Large, 564, ch. 270,) and then proceeded with the argument.
Such are the provisions of the statutes relied on as repealing,
by implication, the 66th section of the act of 1799.
It is to be noted that the said 66th section enacts the forfeiture of the goods, " or the value thereof," of which entry shall
have been made in the collector's office, "with design to evade
the duties thereupon, or any part thereof." But whether the
collector shall or shall not seize and prosecute the goods as
forfeited, or shall collect and receive the duties arising upon the
valuation, when ascertained by two reputable merchants to be
appointed for that purpose, as required in that 66th section, are
matters left to the judgment and discretion of the collector. If
he retains the goods, and prosecutes as for a forfeiture thereof,
or the value thereof, he acts at his peril; it is his own act, for
which he will be personally responsible in damages, if he misjudges and seizes, and prosecutes by wrong, and without probable cause, upon an allegation of "design to evade the duties
thereupon." The quo animo with which the entry of the goods,
not invoiced according to their actual cost, shall have been
made, the design to evade the duties, constitute the offence for
which the forfeiture of the goods or their value is declared in
this 66th section. The hazard which a collector must incur

DF.CMBER

TERM,

1854.

89

United States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goodt

personally, by prosecuting for a forfeiture, is not forefended by
the appraisement made by two reputable merchants, because
"such appraisement shall not be construed to exclude other
proof upon the trial of the actual and real cost of the said goods
at the place of exportation,." Moreover, the two merchants are
not to inquire as to the "design to evade the duties."
By this 66th section, the duties are to be paid according to
such valuation as shall be ascertained, not according to the
invoiced value, if the collector does not deem it expedient to
prosecute for a forfeiture. So, under the acts of 1823 and 1842,
relied upon, the collector has an election to prosecute for a forfeiture or not, upon allegation of "design to evade the duties."
If he elects not so to prosecute, then he must have collected
under the act of 1823, or under the act of 1842, the additional
duty of fifty per centum.
So the 9th section of the act of May, 19, 1828, (4 Stat. at
Large, 274, ch. 55,) imposed an additional duty of fifty per
centum, if the appraised value of the goods at the time purchased, and place from which they- were imported into the
United States, exceed the invoiced value by ten per"centum.
Yet this statute did not take away the election of the collector
to prosecute for a forfeiture of the goods, or their value, under
the 66th section of the act of 1799, if, in his opinion, the goods
had been entered at the custom-house, upon an invoice undervaluing them, "with design to evade the duties thereupon, or
any part thereof."
In the act of 30th July, 1846, (9 Stat. at Large, 43, ch. 74,
sec. 8,) it is made the duty of the collector to cause the dutiable
value of imports "to be appraised and -estimated and ascertained in accordance with the provisions of existing laws; and
if the appraised value thereof should exceed, by ten per centun
or more, the value so declared on the entry, then, in addition to
the duties imposed by law on the same, there shall be levied,
collected, and paid, a duty of twenty per centum ad valorem on
such appraised value." This act does not take away the election of the collector to prosecute. for a forfeiture of the goods,
or their value, under the 66th section of the act of 1799, if in
his judgment he can sustain the charge, that the goods were
entered at an undervaluation, "with design to evade the duties
thereupon, or any part thereof."
The statutes which impose an additional (or penal) duty, in
case the estimated and ascertained value of the goods exceeds
by a certain per centum their value, as declared in the entry
with the collector, do not require, as a prerequisite to the col
lection of such additional (or penal) duty, that the entry shall
have been made "with design to evade the duties thereupon?'
8*

SUPREME COURT.
United States v.

Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods.

The 66th section of the act of 1799, defines a higher offence
against the revenue laws; it requires that the entry of the goods
shall have been made "with design to evade the duties thereupon," and for such design inflicts the forfeiture of the goods,
"or the value thereof," if the collector shall prosecute for and
establish such design.
In the case of Wood v. The United States, January term,
1842, (16 Pet. 363-366,) the question of the repeal of the 66th
section of the act of 1799, by implication, arising out of subsequent statutes, is fully discussed, and every position taken by
the judge of the district court is, in effect, negatived. It is useless
to say more in this case, than that the principles decided in
Wood v. The United States are applicable to the acts of 1842
and 1846, although these have been passed subsequently to that
decision of the supreme court.
There is no positive repugnancy between the provisions of
the 66th section of the act of 1799, and those of the subsequent
laws. These new laws are merely affirmative, cumulative, and
auxiliary to the 66th section of the act of 1799 ; not inconsistent with a forfeitu'e of the goods or their value, where an entry
shall have been made inthe office of the collector "with design
to evade the duties thereupon, or any part thereof." There is
nothing in any of the statutes, subsequent to the act of 1799, to
compel the collector to demand and receive the duties, with the
additional or penal duties, in cases where goods are entered for
duty at an undervalue, "with design to evade the duties thereupon, or any part thereof;" ndr to inhibit the collector from
prosecuting for the forfeiture of the goods, or their value.
" The provision in the 66th section is intended to suppress
fraud upon the revenue. The other acts are designed to be
auxiliary to the same purpose. There is no repugnance between
the provisions; and to construe the latter, as repealing the former,
would be to construe provisions to aid in the detection of fraud
in such a manner as to promote fraud, by cutting down provisions of a far more general and important character, and essential to the security of the revenue."
Wood v. The United
States, 16 Pet 365, 366.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of. the court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit couYh of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
A libel of information was filed in the district court, by the
collector of the port of New Orleans, on'behalf of himself and
the United States, for the condemnation and forfeiture of sixtyseven packages of goods, on. account of an alleged fraud upon
the revenue, charging, among other things, in the information,

DECEMtBER TERM, 1854.

91

United Stites v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods

that the goods were entered at the custom-house upon the pro.
duction of an invoice, in which they were invoiced at a less
sum than the actual cost thereof at the place of exportation,
with a design to evade the duties.
On the trial, after evidence was given on the part of the
libellants tending to prove the facts charged in the information,
the couit charged the jury, that the 66th section of the duty
act of 1799 was repealed by force of subsequent statutes,
and that, at present, there was no law in existence providing
for a forfeiture of the goods for the causes set forth in the libel.
The jury found, accordingly, for the claimant.
This ruling was carried up on error to the circuit court, where
the judgment was affirmed.
The 66th section of the act of 1799, so far as it is material
in the case, is as follows: " That if any goods, waxes, or merchandise, of which entry
shall have been made in the office of a collector, shall not be
invoiced 4ccording to the actual cost thereof at the place of
exportation, with design to evade the duties thereupon, or any
part thereof, all such goods, &c., or the value thereofto be recovered o.f the person making the entry, shall be forfeited."
It was held, in the case of Wood against the United States,
16 Pet. 342, which was an information founded upon this
section, that it was then in force, and the property there seized
was condemned under it. The goods in that case had been
entered at the custom-house in 1839 and 1840. The duty act
of 1842, which has since been passed, is supposed to operate a
Tepeal of the section, by implication.
The 19th section of that act is mainly relied on, which is as
follows : " That if any person shall knowingly and wilfully, with intent
to defraud the revenue of the United States, smuggle or clandestinely introduce into the United States, any goods, &c., subject to duty by law, and which should have been invoiced,
without paying or accounting for the duty, or shall make out, or

pass, or attempt to pass, through the custom-house, any false,
forged, orfraudulent invoice, every such person, his, her, or their
aiders and abettors, shall be deemed guilty of misdemeanor,
&c., punishable by fine and imprisonment."
The invoice mentioned in the two sections (the 66th and 19th)
is a very important document in the entry and passing of goods
at the custom-house.
The 36th section of the act of 1799 made it the duty of the
person making the entry to produce to the collector the original
invoice, in the same state in which it was received; and also,
to make oath that it was the true,. genuine, and only invoice re-

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods.

ceived, and was in the actual state in which it was received, and
that the deponent did not know of any other invoice or account
of the goods different from that produced. And the 1st section
of the duty act of 1818 further provided, that no goods subject
to duty should be admitted to entry, unless the original invoice
of the same was presented to the collector. The same provision
is found in the 1st section of the act qf 1823.
The 4th section of the last act also prescribes the oath substantially like the one in the act of 1799, above referred to,
except somewhat enlarged.
The 4th section of the act of 1830, in the case of goods subject to duty, provided, that if any package should be found to
contain an article not described in the invoice, the same should
be forfeited. This provision is modified by the 21st section of
the act of 1842, which saves the forfeiture, if the appraisers shall
be of opinion that the omission in the invoice was not with a
fraudulent design.
This brief reference to the several acts is sufficient to show
the great importance attached to this document, in securing the
collection of the proper duties upon foreign importations, and
the great care that has been taken to insure the production to
the collector of the true, genuine, original one, and that it should
be in the actual state and condition in which it was received by
the owner, consignee, or agent making the entry.
Now, the 66th section of the act of 1799, dealing with this
document, forfeits the goods of the party entered at the customhouse, "if not invoiced according to the actual cost thereof at
the place of exportation, with a design to evade the duties."
The 19th section of the act of 1842 subjects the party to a
misdemeanor, and punishable as such, concerned in making an
entry, who, with intent to defraud the revenue, " shall make out,
or pass, or attempt to pass, through the custom-house, any false,
forged, or fraudulent invoice."
The former section has reference to the invoice so far as material to determine the forfeiture, simply with a view to the actual
cost of the article at the place of exportation, without regard to
the question whether the document itself is the true and genuine
one or not. If the goods described in the invoice are invoiced
under the cost value, with the design stated, the forfeiture takes
place. The object is to prevent frauds upon the revenue in
passing goods through the custom-house, by means of this
device, at an undervaluation.
The latter provision is different, and has reference to the
frauds that may be committed in passing or attempting to pass
the goods upon the production of invoices not genuine; not the
true, original invoices, but those made out for the occasion
with a design to impose upon the collector and other officers.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

93

United States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods.-

The acts of 1799 and 1823 sought to prevent'this -species of
fraud, by requiring the production of the original invoice, with the
oath of the party superadded, that it was the true, genune, and
the only one received, and in the actual state inwhieh it was received. This, although the paity was subjected to the"penalty
of perjury, in case of false swearing, seems not to have afforded
the necessary protection; and the present provision, for the'first
time, has been enacted, subjecting the person to a misdemeano r
who shall, with intent to defraud the revenue, "make out 'r
pass, or attempt to pags, through the custom-house any false,
forged, or fraudulent invoice," manifestly directed against the
production and use of simulated invoices, and those fraudulently
made up for the purpose of imposing upon the officers in maki g
the entry.
The whole scope of the section confirms this view. it first
makes the smuggling of dutiable goods into the country a misdemeanor; and, secondly, the passing or attempt to pass them
through the custom-house, with intent to defraud the revenue,
by means of false, forged, or 'fraudulent invoices; the latter is an
offence which, in 'effect and result, is very much akin to that of
smuggling, except done under color of conformiti to -the lav
and regulations of the customs.
In the interpretation of our system of revenue laws, which is
very complicated, and contains numerous provisions to guard
against frauds by the impbrters,this court has not been disposed
to apply -with strictness the rule which repeals a prior statufe by
implication, v. aere a subsequent one has' made provision upon
the same subject, and differing in some respect from the former,
but have been inclined to uphold both, unless the repugnancy
is clear and positive, so as to lea-e no doubt as to the intent of
congress; especially in cases where the new law may have been
auxiliary to and in aid of the old, for the purpos.e of more
effectually guarding against the fraud. This is the doctrine to
be found in the' case of Wood v. the United States, already referredto, and in several subsequent cases. 3 How. 197; 16 lb. 150.
It has been supposed that the 8th section of the, present act
-of 1846, which imposes an additional duty of twenty per centum
for undervaluation, works a repeal of the 66th section of the
act of 1799.' But this provision has been part of the revenue
system e er since the act of 1818, with the exception of a few
years, and has never been understood to have the effect claimed.
On the contrary, the section has been regarded as in force, and
has' been in practical operation during all this time, notwithstanding the impositioui of other additional duty. It was so
considered in the' case of Wood v. The United States. This
additionaf duty is imposed in case the appraised value exceeds

94

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods.

the invoice price of the goods ten per centum, irrespective of
the question of fraudulent intent. Undoubtedly, if this additional duty has been levied upon the goods by the government,
it cannot forfeit them under the 66th section; but, if the collector
is satisfied that the undervaluation in the invoice has been
made with intent to evade the duties, instead of levying the
additional duty, a forfeiture may be declared. It will be observed, also, that the forfeiture may be declared in cases of
undervaluation where it is less than ten per centurm of the invoice price, provided the fraudulent design exists.
We are satisfied that there is no provision in the act of 1842,
or in any of the duty acts, operating as a repeal of the 66th
section of the act of 1799, but that it still exists in full force
and effect. The judgment of the court below must therefore
be reversed, and-record remitted for further proceedings, in conformity to this opinion.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissented.
This court, in a series of cases arising upon a succession of
frauds perpetrated by a combination of persons in England and
this country, determined, that the 66th section of the act of
1799, and the 4th section of the act of 1830, as modified by
the 14th section of the act of 1832, were not repugnant, but
formed a harmonious system for the prevention of frauds upon
the revenue. 16 Pet. 342; 3 How. 211; 4 Ib. 242, 251.
The system formed was: 1. By the act of 1799, if an invoice contains goods that are undervalued with design to evade
duties, the goods so undervalued are forfeited. 2. By the acts
of 1830 and 1832, if a package or invoice is made up with intent to defraud the United States, the package or invoice thus
made up is forfeited.
The court in its opinions declared that the latter statutes
apply only to the cases in which the fraudulent acts of the
importer were discovered by the officers of the customs, in the
opening and examination of the goods, in their transit through
the custom-house; while the act of 1799 applies to the case of
completed entries under false invoices, no matter when or where
the detection took place, the suits were all for forfeitures where
the goods had passed through the custom-house, with a regular
entry and payment of duties, but upon false invoices, that is,
importing on undervaluation.
I In these entries, "a true and original invoice" was demanded
by the collector, under the acts of congress then in force, and
simulated and fraudulent invoices were punished, and upon
which the assessment of duties was made. A true and original
invoice, showing the first cost of the imports, formed the legal

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

95

United States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods.

basis for the estimate of the duties under these acts, and the
prodution of this was the end which these enactments were
designed to secure.
The tariff act of 1842 (5 Stat. at Large, 548,) was adopted
after these decisions.
Its title signifies that its purpose, among other things, "was to
change and modify existing laws imposing duties on imports,"
and all conflicting acts and parts of acts were expressly repealed.
The frauds referred to in the cases cited, were, accomplished by
false representations of. the cost of the import, in the invoice,
and the danger of a forfeiture for an undervaluation did notprevent them.
The act of 1842 abolishes the "cost price at the place of
exportation," as the basis pf the estimate of duties, but employs
the "market value," or "wholesale price," and provides appraisers,
who were to ascertain these without regard "to any invoice
whatever." To perform this office they were armed with inquis-.
itorial powers, might call for merchants' bobks, letters, invoices,
and papers, and examine, as witnesses, the parties in interest
False swearing was punished with the forfeiture of the import,
and as a perjury.
Here, then, is the substitute for the invoice in the old system,
in the ascertainment of the basis of the estimate, and these
were the sanctions employed to secure its integrity.
The "true and original invoice." would, nevertheless, afford
important evidence to ascertain the "market value," for, in a
majority of cases, this wouldbe the "cost"
The production of
the true invoice was still required in every entry. If the invoiced
value differed from the appraised or market value, ten per centum,
an additional penal duty now amounting to twenty per centum
was exacted. This was to compel a fair exhibition of a "true
invoice." This duty is collected without suit, depends upon the
single fat of a variation of ten per centum between the market"
and invoice price, and has proved a most efficient instrument to
prevent fraud.- Besides, the duty may be collected in goods at
the invoice rate, and thus the undervaluation would be corrected.
Finally, "if any person shall, wilfully and with intent to defraud, make out, or pass, or attempt to pass through the customhouse, a false, forged, or fraudulent invoice, every such person,
his alders and abettors, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and shall be fined in any sum not exceeding five thousand dollars, or imprisoned for a term of time not exceeding two years,
one or both, at the discretion of the court." (5 Stat. at Large,
565; Sec. 19.)
The invoice spoken of in this secti6n of the act, is one which
does. not represent truly the facts the importer is bound to dis-

SUPREME COURT.

96

United States v. Sixty-seven Packages of Dry Goods.

close at the date of his entry, and which are exhibited by an
original and true invoice, and Where the misrepresentation,
whether by falsehood, forgery, or fraud, is with the design to
evade the duties. It is admitted that this act provides for cases
never before comprehended in any revenue law. For the attempt
to defraud is punished as well as the consummate effort. The
system of the act of 1842 is thus disclosed: It relies upon a
home valuation made by public officers, upon evidence, instead
of a representation of cost by the importer, as the basis of value
in the assessment; and it provides, by forfeiture, and fine, and
imprisonment, against the false testimony of the importer. It
compels the production of the original and true invoice, by a
penal duty, by fine and imprisonment, and the power to take
payment of duties in undervalued goods.
There are, be'sides, provisions directed against smuggling.
The act contains a selection from the various laws which had
been passed by congress, whether in force or otherwise, and introduces new securities for the collection of the revenue.
Every case provided for by the system first considered, is
distinctly and efficiently provided for in the act of 1842.
The principle applicable to such a state of facts is laid down
by this court, in Norris v. Crocker, 13.How. 429. "That where
a new statute covers the whole subject-matter of an old one,
adds offences, and prescribes different penalties for those enumerated in the old law, that then the former statute is repealed by
implication, as the two provisions cannot stand together ;" and
that where "a recent statute covers every offence found in the
former act," and prescribes a new and different penalty, recoverable by indictment, "it is plainly repugnant."
The statement of the systems adopted at the different periods,
will show that the importance of the 66th section of the act of
1799 had ceased, and that the retention of it, as a cumulative
penalty, would accomplish no good, and serve only to involve
the government in litigation, that the revenue officers might claim
the penalty.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of Loiuisiana, and was argued br counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and
the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the
same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court for further
proceedings to be had 'therein in conformity-to the opinion of

this court.

