580

SUPREME

COURT.

Coy et al. v. Mason.
JANE A. CoY, IN HER OWVN RIGHT AND AS GUARDIAN OF Lucy,
BENJAMIN, MARY, A-MELIA, AND MAHITABLE CoY, HER MINOR
CHARLES
CHILDREN, COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, V.

MASON.
In 1824, the United States made a treaty with the Sac-and Fox Indians, in which
there was a reservation of a certain tract of land for the use of the half-breeds, who
i ere to hold it by the same title, and in the same manner, that other Indian titles
were held.
In 1834, congress relinquished all the right and title of the United States to the above
land, and vested the title in the half-breeds, who, at the passage of the act, under
the Indian title, had a right to the same.
In 1840, proceedings were commenced in the district court of Lee county, Iowa, for a
partition of the tract among the respective owners.
In 1841. the land was divided into one hundred and one shares, there being that number of original half-breeds who were entitled to shares.
The complainants represented that their grantor was entitled to one and two thirds
shares; that he resided in Wisconsin, and had no notice of the partition; that his
shares were allotted to another person, and that the proceedings ought to be set
aside as fraudulent.
The record of the proceedings in partition was, by agreement of parties, made evidence before this court; but, not being produced, it is impossible to decidewhether
or not the charge of fraud is sustained. 'Morcover, all the parties interested are not
before the court; nor is it made out that the shares claimed were allotted to the
alleged persons.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the district
court of the United States for the district of Iowa.
The facts in the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
court.
It was argued by 1r. Platt Smith, for the appellants, and by
Mr. Chiase, for the appellee.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before us by a writ of error to the district court for the district of Iowa.
In an Indian treaty, made the 4th of August, 1824, between
the United States and the Sac and Fox tribes of Indians, for a
large cession of territory within the limits of the State of Missouri and elsewhere, there was reserved the small tract of land
lying between the rivers Des Moine and the Mississippi, and
the section of the line of the treaty between the Mississippi and
the Des Moine, which is intended for the use of the half-breeds
belonging to the Sac and Fox nations; they holding it, however, by the same title, and in the same manner, that other
Indian titles are held.
On the 30th of June, 1834, congress pagsed an act relinquishing all the right and title of the United States to the above land,
and vested the title in tle half-breeds, who, at the passage of the
act, under the Indian title, had a right to the same.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Coy at al. v. AMason.

In 1840, Josiah Spalding and others commenced proceedings
in the district court of Lee county, Iowa, for a partition of the
tract among the respective owners, against Euphrasine Antaga
and others. Notice was given by publication in anewspaper,
and, after some delays, a partition was made by the consent of
parties.
The complainants, in their bill, represent that Elizabeth Cardinell, alias Elizabeth Antaga, was a half-breed of the Sac and
Fox nation of Indians, and the sister of Euphrasine Antaga,
and in her lifetime was entitled to one full original share inthe
above tract. That in the year 1833, the said Elizabeth- Cardinell died, leaving St. Paul, Eustace, Eli, Pierre, and Julien
Cardinell, her children and only heirs. That these children
were all half-breeds, born before the 4th 'of August, 124, and
were entitled, in their own right, each to a share in tih land.
That after the 00th of June, 1834, and before the 14th day of
April, 1840, all of the said heirs died, except Julien Cardinell,
who became tle owner of the shfares of his mother and brothers.
In 1841, the land was divided into one hundred and one
shares, among persons claiming to be tie owners. Sanmuel
Marsh, William E. Lee, and Edward C Delevan were trustees
for certain claimants, called' the New York Company, and were
made defendants to the petition for partition; and they claimed
one share under Eustace Cardinell, and two thirds of a share
under Elizabeth Antaga, by the heirs of Eli and Eustace Cardinell. But the trustees filed no title'papers or exhibits, showinig
their right to the one and two thirds shares claimed by thei, and
to which Jullen was entitled.
*The complainants further represent, that when the petition
for partition was filed, Julien was a resident of Prairie du Chien,
in the territory of Wisconsin, a distance of niore than two hundred miles from the half-breed tract, and that
i he had no notige,
&c. That the consent to tile decree was, a fraudulent device by
the parties, and is consequently void. That Marsh, Lee, ana
Delevan had no right to the one and two thirds shares claimed;
that they drew the said shares under the agreed plan of division,
without right, &c.
The complainants allege that they claim under a deed of convevance from Julien Cardinell, dated 25th of February, 14,
and bydescent, the one and tw ythirds shares. Thee shares: it
is alleged, were disposed of by Marsh, Lee, and Delevan, to
M.2son, the defendant, in 182, who now claims them; that he
is now in possession of the land, enjoying the rents and profits,
and refuses to account. &c. Other allegations of fraud are made,
of which Mlason had notice. &e., and the coiplaiinants pray that
the decree of partition may be set aside and annulled, as fraud49*

SUPREME COURT.
Coy et al. v. Mason.

ulent and void, and that a repartition may be had, and that the
complainants may be allowed their interest in the land, &c.
The defendant demurs to the bill, and also answers, not waiving his demurrer, &c.
He admits that Elizabeth Cardinell was a half-breed, but
denies that the children, whose names are stated in the petition,
were half-breeds of the Sac and Fox nations, their father being
a white man. He admits the death of the persons stated by the
complainants in their petition, and that Marsh, Lee, ard Delevan, as trustees, &c., claimed one share under Eustace Cardinell, and two thirds of a share under Elizabeth Cardinell, called
Antaga, through Eli and Eustace Cardinell, heirs, &c. But he
denies that the trustees ever drew or received the said one and
two thirds of a share, or any portion thereof, as setforth in the
petition, or in any other manner; and he denies the allegations
of fraud, &c.
" The parties agreed to the following facts: That Elizabeth
Cardinell was a half-breed of the Sac and Fox nations of Indiahig and died in 1826, leaving Julien Cardinell, and his four
brothers, St. Paul, Eustace, Eli, and Pierre, her children, whose
father was a white men. Julien was born in 1821, and his
brothers prior to the year 1824. All the children of the said
Elizabeth were living on the 30th of June, 1834, and all, except
Julien, died unmarried before 1840, leaving no children. In
1848, Julien conveyed to Coy and Brace, by a deed which is to
be produced in court. Coy died in. 1849, leaving the present
plaintiff as his widow, and a family of children. Brace died
about the same time, leaving also a widow and children, who
reside in Iowa."
" The title of the half-breeds of the Sac and Fox nations of
Indians appears by the treaty of August, 1824, .and the act
of congress of June 30, 1834. It is admitted that there were
one hundred and one true original half-breeds who were entitled
to shares."
" The record of the partition suit is to be regarded as in evidence, and either party may use any portion of it in thc supreme
court, whether the same is used in the district court or not; but
the following facts are admitted to be true, unless contradicted
by the record. The suit for partition was commenced in the
spring of 1840. Legal notice thereof was given by publication,
and no other service was made on any of the defendants in that
suit. The case would have regularly come up for hearing in
October, 1840, but was postponed till April following, to give
more abundant time for all persons interested to appear and
present their claims. Marsh, Lee, and Delevan were defendants
in that suit; they claimed upwards of sixty shares, and among

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

583

Coy et al. v. Mason.

them were the one and two thirds shares, as set forth in the petition in this suit. In the judgment of partition, forty-one shares
were allowed them. Elizabeth Cardinell is the same person as
Elizabeth Antaga, and is a sister of Euphrasine Antaga."
"The defendant in this suit has become a purchaser of the
interests owned by Marsh, Lee, and Delevan, as will be more
fully shown by their deed to him. More than $100,000 of the
purchase-money remains unpaid. Marsh, Lee, and Delevan
are not residents of the State of Iowa."
"At the time of the partition, Julien Cardinell was absent
from the territory of Iowa, residing in Prairid du Chien, more
than two hundred miles distant. The country at that time
was new. He was ignorant and illiterate. There was no
guardian appointed for him, nor any person present in court to
represent his rights. There is no exhibit on record tending to
show that Marsh, Lee, and Delevan, or either of them, had any
right to the shares of the said Julien, or to any interest derived
from either of his brothers, or from his mother. The half-breed
tract contains about 120,000 acres of land. Keokuk is a large
town situated on the tract."
"The claimants in the tract are very numerous, amounting
to several hundreds. It would be impracticable to make them
all parties. In the partition suit no one but Marsh, Lee, and
Delevan laid.claim to any share under any of the Cardinells,
with the exception of one half of one share, which was drawn
by Ebenezer D. -Ayres."
"The whole tract was divided, b-it no part was set off to the
said Julien, and no mention is made of his rights in-said record.
He had no -guardian and no notice, except the constructive
notice by newspaper publication in Iowa."
The bill prays that the decree of -the district court, on the
ground of fraud, may be declared void, so far as the rights of
the complainants are affected, and that a repartition of the
land may be order.ed. But there is no evidence of fraud, unless
it be inferred from the facts admitted. The facts in regard to
the partition suit are admitted, unless contradicted by the
record; but the record of that proceeding is not before us, and
without it we are unable to determine the extent of the admissions. If there were evidence of .fraud in the partition, we
could not take jurisdiction of that proceeding, as the parties
interested are not before us; and'for tlie same reason, the
district court had no jurisdiction of this part of the case,
The answer denies that the one and two thirds shares claimed
were allowed to Marsh, Lee, and Delevan, and there is nothing
in the admission of facts which disproves the answer in this
respect. The defendant admits that the trustees claimed these

SUPREME COURT.
Wanzer et al. v.. Truly.

shares, but it is not admitted that they were allowed to them in
the partition. The evidence does not identify and establish, as
against the defendant, the right claimed by the complainant.
The decree of the circuit court, which dismissed the bill, is
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the district 'court of the United States for the
district of Iowa, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said district court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

Moses

WANZER AND

JABEZ HARRISON,

NETT R.

AND

J1.

H.

APPELLANTS,

V.

BEN-

TRULY.

Where a promissory note was given, in Mississippi, for the purchase of slaves, the
title of the vendor of which afterwards proved to be defective, but in the mean
time a foreign creditor of the vendor had laid an attachment in the hands of the
vendee, for the amount of the promissory note, and obtained judgment against him
as I;arnishee, the purchaser of the slaves should be credited upon the judgment
agatnst him, with the value of The slaves at the time when they were taken away
from him, and the damagcs, costs, and expenses actually paid upon the decrees of
the courtof chancery in Mississippi.

THis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of Mississippi.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Coxe, for the appellants, and by A1r
Brent and Mr. May, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee (B. R. Truly) purchased of J. R. Herbert, in
1836, in Mississippi, five slaves, for whom he gave two notes,
one of which for $3,575, was payable in March, 1838, at a
banking-house in Brandon, with ten per cent. interest till paid.
Another note for the same sum has been collected. During the
year 1837, the appellants recovered a judgment in the circuit
court against Herbert, who had absconded in insolvent circumstances. In 1.839, a process of garnishment was served upon
the appellee before named, who acknowledged the existence of
this note, and a judgment was rendered against him. An execution issued, a levy was made, a forthcoming bond was taken,

