SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter et al. v. Commonwealth

of Pennsylvania.

SAMUEL H. CARPENTER, ACTING EXECUTOR, AND CHARLES WILKINS SHORT AND J. CLEVES SHORT, EXECUTORS NAMED AND
RESIDUARY LEGATEES IN THE WILL OF WILLIAM SHORT,
DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR v. THE COMMONWEALTH
OF PENNSYLVANIA.
The State of Pennsylvania, in 1826, passed a law by which all inheritances being
within that commonwealth, which, by the intestacy or the will of any decedent,
should devolve upon any other than the father, mother, wife, children, or lineal
descendants of such person, should be subject to a tax.
In 1850, an explanatory act was passed, declaring that the words "being within thiis
commonwealth," should be so construed as to relate to all persons who have been
at the time of their decease or now may be, domiciled within this commonwealth,
as well as to estates.
In 1349, a citizen of Pennsylvania died, whose will was proven by a resident executor
in December, 1849. The executor represented that a portion of the estate, consisting of securities, stocks, loans, and evidences of debt and property, was not
within the commonwealth.
The supreme court of Pennsylvania decided that this portion was subject to the tax,
and this court has no authority to revise that decision.
The.exnlanatory law is not within the prohibitions of the constitut on of the United
States.
It is true that in some respects the rights of donees, under a will, become vested by
the death of a testator; but until the period of distribution arrives, the law of the
decedent's domicile attaches to the property.
The explanatory act is not an ex post facto law, within the 10th section of the 1st
article of the constitution of the United States. This phrase was used in a restricted sense, relating to criminal cases only.

THIS case was brought up from the supreme court of Pennsylvania by a writ of errol issued under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 111r. Ewing, and Mr. Hart, for the plaintiffs
in error, and by Ill. Hood, and Mr. Scott, for the defendant.
The following notice of these points on behalf of the plaintiffs in error, upon which the decision of this court tmned, is
taken from the brief of Mr. Eving: 2. That, the act of 1350, professes to be explanatory of the
act of 126, does not help it in the least. If a direct act, levying a tax or penalty on past cases of collateral inheritance,
would be ex post facto within the meaning of the constitution
of the United States, so isjthis; as if the act of 1826 provided
for the punishment of crimes, a declaratory law of 1850 could
not extend its provisions to acts committed prior to the declaratory law, no more than an original law could punish a past fact
as a crime.
3. We have here then a retroactive law, which takes the
property of an individual to the use of the State, because of a
fact which had occuited prior to the passage of the law. And

IECEMBER TERM, 1854.

457

Carpenter et al. v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

we suppose it quite immateiial whether it is seized to the use
of the State, by the name of tax,-fine, penalty, or forfeiture, so
that it is seized by virtue of a lex post factum.
This court has decided, in cases which raised the question,
that the clause in the 10th section, 1st article of the constitution of the United States, which provides that no State shall
pass any "ex post facto law," does not prohibit the States from
passing laws which shall transfer the property of A to B, for
reasons, ex post facto, that their power in this respect, between
persona, is unlimited and unrestrained. But that it does pro.
hibit the States from making past acts penal, which, when performed, were attended with no punishment or penalty ;-and it
equally prohibits them from increasing any punishment or
penalty by laws passed after the fact; the scope and intent of the
restriction, as construed and explained by the court, being to
prohibit the States from punishing the persons or seizing upon
e property of individuals, by reason of acts committed or
perfonned previous to the enactment of the law. It is to pro.
tct the individual from the direct action of the State against
his person or property for any past cause, but not to limit the
power of the State in adjusting or distributing property among
individuals for like cause.
Thus a State may say by a law of to-day, that A shall have
the lands and goods of B, because of some fact done between
A and B yesterday, which did not then transfer or pledge or
incumber either lands or goods; the protection of property, as
between individuals, being left to the constitution and laws of
the State, except only where a contract intervenes, the validity
of which they may not impair. But the State cannot by a law
of to-day forfeit to itself the lands or goods of B, be ause of
some fact done or suffered by B yesterday, and which did not.
then by law work a forfeirtue or make his lands or goods the
property of the State. This would be, according to the con.
struction of the court ex post facto, within the prohibition of
the constitution of the United States. And I suppose it to be
quite immaterial whether the past fact, by reason of which the
property of an individual is seized to the use of the State by a
subsequent law, lex post factum, be called a crime or not, or
whether the seizure be denominated fine, levy, or forfeiture.
This is mere form -" words, words " - hret in cortice.' The
substance is, the seizure of the lands or funds of'-an indivictual
to the use of .the State by a law operating on, a past fact. If
the property of an individual cannot be seized to the use of the
State, because of a fact which an after law declares criminal,
may it be so for the same fact if the law do not at all characterize the fact, or if it pronounce it meritorious ? This would be
VOL. XVII.

39

458

SUPREME

COURT.

Carpenter et al. v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
absurd. One State legislature enacts: That every member of
the immediately preceding legislature who voted against the
passage of the act to establish common schools shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall forfeit to the State, to be
applied to said common schools, one twentieth part of his lands
and goods. Such a law would be ex post facto within the
meaning of the constitution, as expounded by this court.
The legislature of another State enacts: That every member of the immediately preceding legislature who voted against
the act for the establishment of common schools shall be, and
he is hereby, declared to be free from all blame or censure therefor, and there shall be assessed upon the property of every such
person one twentieth part of its value, as a public tax to be
applied to the use of schools. If the first be uncons-itutional,
so is this likewise. It does not, it is true, make the fact criminal by an after law, but it attaches to it a penalty, the same in
its consequence as if it had called it a crime. In substance and
effect the provisions are the same, and equally within the prohibition of the constitution.
If I be correct in this, the constitution. of the United States
does not apply alone in cases where an act, innocent when done,
is by a subsequent law declared to be a crime, and punished as
such, but also, to cases where a past fact, giving no right to the
State to the property of the individual, is by an after law made
the occasion of burdening him with fine, forfeiture, or assessment. This case, then, comes literally within the prohibitory
clause of the constitution. It is lex post factum, and it is the
State ac~ing upon and against individuals by reason of the past
fact. I all cases heretofore decided under this clause of the
constitu ion, and in which the -retroactive law has been sustained, the State pronounced by law between individuals, and
transferred property from one to the other, by reason of some
past fact, but not to itself. This, it appears to me, is the great
line of distinction; and if it be once passed,- if it be held that
the State may take property of an individual, because of a past
fact, -the constitution affords no -protection against confiscation .and forfeiture; all that is necessary is to give it a softer
name.
Suppose a statute, having the same effect precisely, to run
thus : If any person shall heretofore have died within this State, leaving personal property within it, and also in other States, and
leaving no lineal heirs; and if the collateral heir or devisee of
such decedent shall have heretofore claimed and received such
part of the estate of decedent as was situated without this
State, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall

DECE-MBER TERM, 1854.

459

Carpenter et aL v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

forfeit therefor, and pay to the use of common schools, one half
the assets of the decedent which remain within the State at the
time of the passage of this act.
No one can doubt that this would be an ex post facto law,
within the prohibition of the constitution.
Strike out of the act the word"' misdemeanor," it does not
vary .the case except in words. You retain the forfeiture, but
fail to characterize the fact. Strike out the word "forfeit," and
insert "tax," in its stead, the effect is still the same; you retain
the penalty, the usiual consequence of crime, by another name,
and attach it as a consequenca to a past fact, not pronounced
criminal. The very part of the supposed criminal law against
which the constitution of the United States would protect the
individual, namely, the penalty, remains after the two suggested
amendments. The parts stricken out, had they remained without the penalty, would be nugatory, and this court could not
consider them.
It seems to me very clear, that the intent and the just effect
of this constitutional provision is to pro.tect the individual in
his person and property against punishment or confiscation by
the State, under a law operating upon a past fact.
4. We contend, also, that this law, in its retroactive effect,
impairs the obligation of a contract.
When Carpenter, the executor, took upon himself the execution of the -will, he entered into a contract, implied in law, to
pay over to the legatees what should remain in his hands after
paying debts and such charges as.the law attached to the estate
and its administration. That sum -was about $43,000. The
act of March 11, 1850, intervenes, and requires the executor
to pay $25,000 of that sum to the State, and but $18,000 to
the legatees in discharge of his implied contract..
This law, therefore, greatly impairs the obligation of this- contract. For, if the law be obligatory, it at once absolves the
executor from the obligation of his contract to the legatees, just
to the extent thfat it requires him to pay to the State, and it
is because of a fact- whieh occurred before the passage of the
laW .
Suppose the law to have been enacted in these words: "That every agent, executor, administrator, factor, and attorney, who has in his hands, at the time of the passage of this
act, moneys heretofore received or collected for his principal, &c,
shall pay one half thereof into the treasury of the State for the
use of schools, and the other half to his principal, &c., .which
shall be in full discharge of his legal liability to such principal."
If a State can do this, the constitution of the United -States
does not protect contrabts; if a State can take half. as a reuo-

460

SUPREME COURT.
Carpenter et al. v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

active tax, she can take the whole, and she can name any past
fact she chooses as the cause of the tax. And it is quite immaterial to the creditor whether his contract is annulled absolutely,
if it be so as to him, and remains valid only for the benefit of
the State.
A State may seize the property of an individual directly to
her own use, but this were an act of arbitrary power not likely
to occur. She may take his property for any future fact or act,
whether innocent or criminal, either as a forfeiture or levy, but
not for a past act or fact, by a retroactive law. She may take
from A his property and give it to B, but she cannot impair the
validity, or at all lessen the obligation, of a contract between
them.
The following points, on behalf of the defendant, relate to
that branch of the case upon which the opinion of this court
rested: -

1. It does not appear, by the said document or record, that
the supreme court of the United States has jurisdiction of the
cause.

2. It does not appear thereby that there was drawn in question, in the supreme court of Pennsylvania, any of the causes
or grounds alleged in the said writ of error.
3. It does not appear thereby that the validity of the Pennsylvania act of assembly of 11th March, 1850, was called in
question in the cause in the supreme court of Pennsylvania, on
the ground of its repugnancy to the constitution of the United
States.
4. Nor that any such question was decided by the supreme
court of Pennsylvania in said cause.
It is only where there is drawn in question in the state court
the validity (not merely the construction) of a state law, that
the supreme court of the United States has jurisdiction to review the question by writ of error; and even then only where
the validity of the state law is questioned, on the ground that
it is repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or laws of the
United States. The Commonwealth Bank of Kentucky v.
Griffith, 14 Pet. 64; Lawler v. Walker, 14 How. 149, 152;
Crowell v. Randall, 10 Pet. 368, in which Mr. Justice Story
reviews the previous cases, &c. See, also, Ohio Life Insurance
r. Debolt. 16 How. 416, Taney, C. J., 428, &c.;. State Bank of
Ohio v. knoop, Ib. 369, McLean, J., 384, &c.
To give jurisdiction to the supreme court of the United
States, under the 2.5th section of the judiciary act, it must
appear on the record itself to be one of the cases enumerated
in that cection; and nothing out of the record can be taken into

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

461

Carpenter et al. v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

consideration. Armstrong v. The Treasurer of Athens County,
16 Pet. 281, 285 ; 1 Curtis's Com. § -279.
Retrospective laws are forbidden to the States only when, in
civil cases, they impair the obligation of contracts; or, in criminal.cases; where they are ex post facto. Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall.
386.
Where a retrospective law of a State affects vested rights,
the supreme court of the United States has jurisdiction only
where such rights are grounded on contract. The'Charles River
Bridge v. The Warren .Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 536, 547; 1 Curdis's
Com. §§ 244, 253, note 1; The Providence Bank v. Billings,
4 Pet. 514, 558, 561.
Mr. Justice .CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The legislature of Pennsylvania, in 1826, adopted a law by
which all inheritances, "being within this commonwealth,"
which, by the intestacy or the will of any decedent, should devolve "upon any other than the father, mother, wife, children,
or lineal descendants" of such person, should bb subject to the
payment of a tax, now fixed at five per cent. Purd. Dig. 138,

§ 1.
The assessments under this act were confined to the property
which might be within the commonwealth. The Commonwealth v. Smith, 5 Barr. 142.
In March, 1850, by an explanatory act, it was declared that
the words " eing within this coifmnonwealth, shall be so construed as to relate to all persons who have been at the time of
their decease, or now may be, domiciled withihi this commonwealth, as well as to estates; and this is declared to be the true
intent and meaning of this act,"
William Short, a citizen of Pennsylvania, died within the
State a few months previously to the passage of this act, leaving his property to friends and collateral relations, the principal
of whom, the residuary legatees, reside beyond the limits of the*
State. The will was proven, by a resident executor, in December, 1849, before the register's court in Philadelphia, and a settlement was made with that court in June of the following
year. In that settlement, the executor represented that a portion of the estate, consisting of securities, stocks, loans, and
evidences of debt and property, was not within the commonwealth, and offered to pay the tax for the property 'ithin,
under the act of 1826, and denied the validity of the assessment under the act of 1850. The tax was assessed upon the
entire personal estate, without reference to its locality, by the
court, and its judgment upon this subject was affirmed by the
supreme court, to which it was removed by certiorari. That
39*

462

SUPREME COURT
Carpenter et al. v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

court says: " More pointed words to make the act (of 1850)
retrospective could not be chose=i; and it will scarce be said the
legislature had not power-to make it so, at least while the assets
remain in the hands of the executor as administrator. No
clause of the constitution forbids it to extend a tax already
laid, or to tax assets not taxed before; and, in establishing its
peculiar interpretation, it has only done indirectly what it was
competent to do directly." The supreme court thus interprets
the act of 1850 as if it read: " That assets in the hands of an
executor, for distribution among the collateral relations of .or
strangers to the decedent, shall be subject to a tax of five per
cent"
This court has no authority to revise the act of Pennsylvania,
upon any grounds of justice, policy, or consistncy to its own
constitution. These axe concluded by the decision of the public
authorities of the State. The only inquiry for this cburt is, does
the act violate the constitution of the United States, or the treaties and laws made under it?
The validity of the act, as affecting successions to open after
its enactment, is not contested; nor is the authority of the
State to levy taxes upon personal property belonging to its citizens, but situated beyond its limits, denied. But the complaint
is, that the application of the act of 1826, by that of 1850, to a
succession already in the course of settlement, and which had
been appropriated by the last will of the decedent, involved an
arbitrary change of the existing laws of inheritance to the
extent of this tax, in the sequestratien of that amount for the
uses of the State. That the rights of the residuary legatees
were vested at the death of the testator, and from that time
those persons were non-residents, and the property taxed was
also beyond the State; and that the State has employed its
power over the executor and the property within its borders, to
accomplish a measure of wrong and injustice. That the act
contains the imposition of a forfeiture or penalty, and is ex post
facto. It is, in some sense, true, that the rights of donees under
a will are vested at the death of the testator; and that the acts
of administration which follow are conservatory ineans, directed
by the State to ascertain those rights, and to accoinplish an
effective translaion of the dominion of the 'decedent to the
objects of his bounty; and the legislation adopted with any
other aim than this would justify criticism, and perhaps censure. But, until the period for distribution arrives, the law of
the decedenf's domicile attaches to the property, and all other
jurisdictions refer to the place of the domicile, as that where
the distribution should be made. The will of the testator is
proven there, and his executor receives his authority to collect

DECEMBER TERM, 18514.

463

Carpenter et al. v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

the property, by the recognition of the legal tribunals of that.
place. The personal estate, so far as it hai a determinate
owner, belongs to the executor thus constituted. The rights of
the donee are subordinate to the conditions, formalities, and
administrati re control, prescribed by.the State in the interests
of its public order, and are only irrevocably established upon its
abdication of this control, at the period of distribution. If the
State, during this period of administration and control by its
tribunals and their appointees,'thinks "fit.to impote a talk upon
the property, there is no obslacle in the constitution and laws
of the United States to prevdnt it. Ennis v. Smith, 14 How.
400; In re Ewin, 1 Cr. and Jer. 151 ; 1 Barb. Ch. R. 180; 6 W.
I and G. Cy. R. 217; 21 Conn. R. 577.
The act of 1850, in enlarging the operation of the act of
1826, and by extending the language of that act beyond its
legal import, is retrospective in its form; but its practical
agency is to subject to assessment property liable to taxation,
to answer an existing exigency of the State, and to be collected
in the course of future administration; and the language retrospective is of no importance, except to describe the property to
be included in the assessment. And, as the supreme court has
well said, "in establishing its peculiar interpretation, it (the legislature) has only done indirectly what it was competent to do
directly.'.
But if the act of 1850 involved a change in the law of succession, and could be regarded -s a civil regulation for the
division of the estates of unmarried persons having no. lineal
heirs, and not as a fiscal imposition, this court could not pronounce it to be an ex post facto law, within the 10th section of
the ist article of the constitution. The debates in the federal
convention upon the constitution show that the terms "ex post
facto laws" were understood in a restricted sense, relating to
criminal cases only, and that the description of Blackstone ofsuch laws was referred to for their meaning. 3 Mad. Pap. 1399,'
1450, 1579.
This signification wa adopted in this court shortly after its
organization, in opinions carefully prepared, and has been repeatedly announced since that time. Calder v. Bull,;3 Dall..
386 ; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87 ; 8 Pet. 88 ; 11"Ib. 421.
The same words are used in the constitutions of many of the
States, and in the opinions of their courts, and by writers upon
public law, and are uniformly understood in this restricted
sense. 3 N. H. 375 ; 5 Ion. 133 ; 9 Mass. 363 ; 6 Binn, 271;
4 Geor. 208.
The plaintifPs argument concedes that his ease is not within
the scope of this clause of the constitution, unless its limits are-

464

SUPREME COURT.
Rhodes v. Farmer et al.

enlarged to embrace civil as well as criminal cases; and he
insists that the court should depart from the adjudications heretofore made upon this subject. But this cannot be done. There
is no error in the record, and the judgment of the supreme court
is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard -onthe transcript of the record
from the supreme court of Pennsylvania, and was argued b
counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered,
adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said
supreme coijrt in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed.
with costs.

JAMEs

RIHODES,

FAR MER,

COMPLAINANT

WILLIAM

AND

APPELLANT, .2.

FELLOVS, AND

CORNELIus

WILLIAM

B.

FELLOWS.

Where a complainant sought to recover by bill in chancery the proceeds of a judgment hhich he alleged that his debtor had against a third person, and it turned out
that his debtor had only an interest of one fourth in this judgment, which fourth was
collected and the proceeds paid over to the solicitor of the complainant during the
pendenoy of the suit, the bill was properly dismissed at the cost of the complainant.
The assignment of the judgment was, in reality, conditional, although absolute on its
face; and the present bill being in the nature of a bill to carry that assignment into
effect, in such a case parol evidence is admissible to rebut or explain an equitable
interest.
The judgment was nominally assigned to the debtor, but his equitable interest 'n
it was only one fourth, which was all that the complainant was entitled to. This
fourth being paid before the decree, together with costs up to that time, it was
proper to dismiss the bill at the cost of the complainant.

THIs was an appeal from the district court of the United
States, for the northern district of Mississippi.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Phillips, for the appellant, and by M7fr.
Bibb, for the appellee.
Mr. Phillips made the following points: A judgment creditor is entitled in equity to attach a debt due
to the debtor. Bayard v. Hoffman, 4 John. C. 453; Eg~erts v.
Pemberton, 7 Ib. 209; Hudson v. Plets, 11 Paige, 182; Candler
v. Petit, 1 Ib. 170.
Parol evidence was inadmissible to contradict the assignment
It is conceded that the design was to invest the party with a
"legal title." 1 Story's Eq. §§ 113- 115; 6 Ves. 332; 1 Pet.
16; 3 Greenleaf's Ev. 368.
The evidence offered by defendant that .his object wa to

