DECEMBER TERI, 1854.

353

Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

MORGAN B. HINKLE, IN HIS OWN RIGHT, AND AS ADMINISTRATOR
DE BONIS NON OF JOHN FISHER, DECEASED , COMPLAINANT AND
APPELLANT, V. MOSES WANzER, JAMES F. JOHNSON, ,AND

JOHN

S. HUNTER.

Where a complainant in chancery averred that a note of which he was one of the
makers, had been deposited by the holder, amongst other collateral securities, with
a person who
become responsible for the debts of the holder; and averred
further that enough had been collected from these collateral securities to meet and
defray The
all theamount
responsibilities
evidence
that this to
wasreimburse
not the
enougb,
by ashowed
large deficiency,
fact.
collected incurred,
was notthe
the losses incurred as indorser and surety.
The
evidence
is notcomplainant;
sufficient to show
thata release
the notehad
hadbeen
been executeil
paid by another
of and
makers
thau.the
or that
to him by
the
responsive to the charge,
answer is substantially
The
note.
the
of
holder
denies it. Other circumstances disclosed in the evidence, sustain the answer.
The collateral securities, being deposited with counsel for the purpose of paying the
debts of the insolvent as they were collected, were properly held by the counsel as
a trust fund, and it was correct to allow the surety to control the judgment upon
the note in question.
The cases examined with respect to the assignment of equitable interests and choses

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern distriet of Alabama.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court
It was argued by Mr. Phillips, for the appellant, and by iM1r.
Raverdy .Tohnsom and Mr. Reverdy Johnson, Tunior, for the
appellees. There was also a brief filed by Mr. Hopkins for the
appellant, and Mr. Chandler, for Hunter.
The points which were made by the respective counsel can
better be understood by giving them in connection with their
own statements of the facts; and as these were short, they are
inserted.
Mr. Phillips, for the appellant, stated the case thus :
The complainant seeks to enjoin the defendant Hunter from
issuing and levying an execution on a certain judgment recovered in the said circuit court, on the 10th April, 1839,,by Moses
Wanzer, founded upon a note signed by Thomas Long, George
D. Fisher, and the complainant, Hinkle, who was a surety
thereon.
The note, being the propracy of one John Fisher, was transferred by him, with very many others, to Gordon, Campbell, and
Chandler, on the 13th May, 1837, for purposes thus stated in
the receipt: "The proceeds of all notes, as they may be. collected, are to be appropriated, by us in the payment of any
demands which wa may hold against said Fisher and Johnson,
upon their own debts, and not upon indorsements or liabilities
for others.'?

SUPREME COUR'T.
Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

Mozes Wanzer, the defendant to this bill, being one of the
creditors thus provided for, the attorneys aforesaid transferred
to him the note above described, upon which the judgment was
recovered.
It is admitted by the record, that after the recovery of the
judgment, Wanzer was fully satisfied of his debt out of other
assets, and that he no longer claims to have any interest in or
control over said judgment; and that said Hunter, without any
assignment or other transfer from said Wanzer, has issued an
execution thereon, and threatens to levy the same on the
property of the complainant, by the authority alone of the said
attorneys.
These proceedings are justified by the defendant, Hunter, on
the ground that they were had under the instructions of Fisher.
" At this time, says defendant, Fisher gave verbal as well as
written instructions to the said firm, to protect this defendant
from the payment of the debts aforesaid, from the papers mentioned in that receipt." And again: "1The particular claim of
this defendant on this note was derived from a letter written by
Fisher, in Mobile, to the firm, at the instance of this defendant,
to hold the balances in their hands after the payment of the
debts particularly provided for, for the indemnity of this defendant." Upon the same head, the deposition of the attorney
states: " Fisher gave verbal and written directions to deponent
to protect Mr. Hunter any remainder there might be after the
payment of the claims in the hands of deponent's law firm."
There is no evidence to sustain the averment that the instructions given by Fisher to the attorneys, were at the instance of
the defendant, Hunter, or by virtue of any agreement with him,
or that the attorneys ever notified said Hunter of the instructions during the life of said Fisher, or that the said Hunter had
become the creditor of said Fisher during his lifetime. Fisher
died on the 9th February, 1838, and the complainant, Hinkle,
was appointed administrator de bonis non of his estate, on 3d
December, 1849.
Upon this statement the appellant will contend, that there
was no assignment or appropriation of the note in question by
Fisher to Hunter, nor any intention to make one. But on the
contrary, the attorneys were at all times bound to hold the surplus funds that might accumulate in their hands at the free
disposal of said Fisher, as well after the said " verbal or written
instructions" as before. Tiernan v. Jackson, 5 Pet. 595; Rogers v. Lindsey, 13 How. 441; Williams v. Everett, 14 East,
582; Grant v. Austin, 3 Price, 58; Hoyt v. Story, 3 Barb.
S. C. 265; Cowperthwaite v. Sheffield, 3 Comstock, 243;
Rogers v. Hosack's Exrs. 18 Wend. 319; Watson v. Duke of

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

355

Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

Wellington, 4 Cond. Eng. Chan. 573; 72 Law Library, 231;
Scott v. Porcher, 3 Men. 662; Walwyn v. Coutts, Ib.
These instructions conferred a power upon the attorneys of a
revocable character; but even if the power were irrevocable
during life, it became extinct by the death of Fisher.
In those cases where the power is coupled with an interest,
the rule is otherwise; but there it must be an interest in the
thing itself. Hunt v. Rousmanier, 8 Wheat. 204; Houghtaling
v. Marvin, 7 Barb. S. C. 412; Eastm. v. Morton,*Ohio, June
term, 1854, Amer. Law Reg., August, 1854.
The case, however, as the appellant contends, does not involve
these considerations, because it appears that Long, one of the
makers of the note, has paid the same to said Hunter.
The bill, which "ssworn to, avers that the complainant, who
was well acquainted with Hunter's-handwriting, had seen the
receipt or statement which Hunter had given to Long, in satisfaction of said judgment, and in 13th interrogatory, Hunter is
specially required to answer whether he did not "give or sign
any receipt or statement showing the payment," &c.
Hunter omits to give a separate answer to this interrogatory,
but in answer to the 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th interrogatories he says: "This defendant has not released Long, nor
received any settlement, payment, or satisfaction from"him."
This answer, as the appellant contends, is not of that character which requires two witnesses, or one witness and corroborative facts, to disprove it. It does not contain a 1 clear and
positive denial" of the charge in the bill. An answer deserves
more or less credit, as it fairly meets all the inquiries contained
in the bill. A general denial is not'sufficient, but there must
be an answer to sifting inquiries upon the general question.
Welfo d, 366, 367, 369 ; Freeman v. Fairlie, 3 Mer. 41; Welford, 309, 310; 2 Eq. Ca. Abr. 67; Paxton's case, Sel. Ca. in
ch. 53; 6 Vesey, 792; 1 Sims and Stu.235; Hepburn v. Durand,
1 Br. Chan. ch. 436; Prout v. Underwood, 2 Cox Chan. 135;
Daniel v. Mitchell, 1 Story, 188; Bk. Georgtown v. Geary, 5 Pet.
110; 9 Cranch, 160; 2 Daniel's Chan. 984; Hughes v. Garner,
2 Young and Call, 333; Parkman v. Welsh, 19 Pick. 234;
Greeley Eq. 4.
The record, therefore, contains upon the subject of payment
the precise statement of the bill sworn to; and the positive
evidence of Mrs. Long, (p. 41,) opposed by the loose, indefinite,
and evasive response of the answer. The oath of the complainant is a full offset to that of. defendant Garron v. Carpenter, 1 Port. 374; Searcy v. Pannell, 1 Cook's Rep. 110; i
McLeod; Lendell and Gamon, 10 Humph. 164; Union Bank
of Georgtown v. Geary, 5 Pet. 99.

356

SUPREME COURT.
Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

The counsel for the appellees presented the following statement.
The bill in this case seeks to restrain the collection of an
execution in favor of Wanzer, (but controlled by and belonging
to Hunter,) against Long and the complainant, Hinkle. The
judgment upon which its execution issued was upon a hote for
$1,520, held by the firm of Fisher and Johnson, made by
Thomas Long, George D. Fisher, and Hinkle, the complainant,
and on 17th April, 1837, placed by Fisher and Johnson, together
with other notes, in the hands of attorneys for collection and to
cover certain liabilities of Fisher and Johnson, as appears by
the receipt of the attorneys. The proceedings in which the
judgment was rendered were in the circuit court of the United
States for the ninth circuit. The bill alleges, in the first place,
that the judgment does not belong to Hunter, and he has no
right to control it; iii the second place, that Fisher, who owned
the note on which the judgment was obtained, abundantly
indemnified Hunter, his security; and that Hunter, out of the
property transferred to him by Fisher, has been fully satisfied,
and consequently, has no right to enforce this judgment; in the
third place, if the judgment belongs to Hunter and he has not
been fully indemnified out of Fisher's assets, yet he has collected
this judgment out of Long, and has no right to enforce the
execution against Hinkle, the complainant. It prays that the
judgment be declared satisfied, or that complainant, as administrator of Fisher, be declared entitled to the judgment, and that
Wanzer and Hunter be enjoined proceeding upon it, &c.
The answer of -Iunter admits that Wanzer has now no
interest in the judgment, and explains why suit was brought in
his name. Fisher was indebted to Wanzer and others; Wanzer placed his claim in the hands of Gordon, Campbell, and
Chandler, attorneys, for collection; Fisher's other creditors also
placed notes in their hands. To settle these suits, Fisher placed
with the attorneys a number of notes for collection, and among
them was the note of Long, indorsed by Hinkle, the complainant. This note was sued in the name of Wanzer, with the
intention to secure his claim. Wanzer's debt was paid out of
other notes of Fisher.
The answer then states, that Hunter was the indorser of
Fisher for a large amount, and he became so to enable Fisher
to settle the debts for which he was sued by Gordon, Campbell,
and Chandler. The arrangement made by Fisher with these
attorneys is set out in the answer. The substance of it is, that
Fisher was to give his notes, indorsed by Hunter, in payment
of the notes of Fisher, who had been sued by Gordon vnd Co.
These notes, indorsed by Hunter, were given, to the amount of

DECE

BER TERM, 1854.

357

Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

nearly $18,000. Fisher gave instructions to the attorneys to
save Hunter from the payment of these debts, by the paper
mentioned in the receipt. In addition to these liabilities, Hunter states that he indorsed a note of Fisher, for $10,000, dated
March 1, 1837, at sixty days, whilh'was protested and paid by
Hunter, partly out, of Fisher's property, and partly out. of his
own; and refers to a deed from Fisher to him, securing him
against liability on this note. He further states, that he paid
Nelson, Carleton, and Co. $3,472, on a bill of ecxchange drawn
by Fisher, 8th larch, 1837. Thus, upwards of $30,A0 were
paid by Hunter, on account of Fisher; and the extent of credits
which the answer gives to Fisher's estate is but $16,558.2S.
Hunter denies that the judgment in question was ever setfled by Long, or that he ever relehsed him.
The evidence of Campbell explains the whole transaction by
which Hunter became security for Fisher.
Barney proves that Hunter, by 23d April, 1843, had paid on
the four notes given under the agreement, which came into the
hands of the United States Bank, $11,627.65, which included
interest. On these notes, $4,336 had been paid in 1838, which
about corresponds with the sums the answer states.to have been
collected from Fisher's estate, and paid on account of these four
notes.
Campbell, also, proves that $4,S18.27 were paid on account
of a judgment by the Bank of Columbus against Hunter, on
the note for $10,000, referred to in the answer and the deed.
This amount corresponds with the first item in The credits given
Fisher's estate; and for the balance of the note Hunter was
liable, and (he says) paid.
Sayre proves that Hunter paid him on notes given undex
the agreement, and on a draft of Fisher, indorsed by Hunter,
$3,271.52.
Gilchrist proves that Hunter paid $3,442 on the bill in favor
of Nelson, Carleton, and Co.
Making an aggiegate paid out by Hunter, on account of the
several responsibilities, of $32,677.17.
And the complainant's effort is to overcome the statement of
credits contained in the answer, by showing that Hunter received from Fisher's estate full indemnity for all liabilities. In
this he fails; for his whole evidence does not make even as
much of Fisher's property come into Hunter's possession as the
answer gives credit for. The depositions of Cook, Gilchrist,
Bolling, Sadler, and Fisher, do not prove that Hunter ever collected, out of the property or assets of Fisher, $10,000.
The complainant relies on the deposition of Airs. Long, and
what he deems the corroborating evidence of Bolling, tQ show
that the judgment has been satisfied by Long.

SUPREME

COURT.

Hinkle v. Wanzor et al.

The bill was dismissed in the circuit court.
The appellees will contend: 1. That, if the state of accounts between Hunter and Fisher's
estate be as shown in the answer, Hunter is, under the circumstances, entitled to the proceeds of the judgment. 2 Story's
Eq. §§ 1044-1047; 5 Wheat. 277; 5 Pet. 600; 1 Yes. Jr. 281;
5 Paige, 632; 1 Johns. C. 205 ; 4 Cond. Eng. Ch. R. 690 ; 4 i'/yl.
and Cra. 702; 1 Story's Com. Eq. § 499.
2. That the account stated in the answer is as correct as it
purports to be, and is unaffected by any evidence in the cause.
3. That the answer being responsive and sworn to, as to
facts in the personal knowledge of the defendant, and denying
Long's satisfaction of the judgment, it can only be overcome
by two credible witnesses, or one and strong corroborating circumstances, neither of which requisites exists in the present
case; and the whole equity of the bill being sworn away, it
was properly dismissed. 6 Wheat. 453; 5 Pet. 99; 9 Cranch,
153; 6 lb. 51.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, by his bill in the circuit court, alleged: That,
on the 17th day of April, 1837, John Fisher and James F. Johnson, of the mercantile firm of -Fisher and Johnson, were the
holders and owners of a promissory note, made by Thomas
Long, George D. Fisher, and the appellant, Hinkle, bearing
date on the 19th of December, 1836, for the sum of $1,520,
payable twelve months from the date of said note, to William
Ryan, surviving partner of the firm of Porter and Ryan, and
which had been transferred, by indorsement, from Ryjan to
Fisher and Johnson; that this note was, by Fisher and Johnson, on the 17th of April, 1837, together with various other
notes, placed in the hands of Messrs. Gordon, Campbell, and
Chandler, attorneys, for collection, as appears by the receipt of
these persons, filed as an exhibit with the bill, and marked A.
That, about the 17th of April, 1837, James F. Johnson, for
valuable consideration, sold and assigned all his interest in the
note above mentioned, and in the firm of Fisher and Johnson, to
his partner, John Fisher.
That John Fisher having departed this life in 1838, administration of his estate was duly committed to his widow, and to
his brother, William P. Fisher, who, having afterwards surrendered their rights and powers, as representatives of the estate
of John Fisher, administration de bonis non of that estate was,
on the 3d of December, 1839 duly committed to the coiplain,
ant, -vho makes profert of the letters of administration granted
to him.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

That lessrs. Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler, the attorneys
with whom' the note had been. deposited, instituted a suit
thereon, in the name of Moses Wanzer, as plaintiff, against the
makers of that note, in the circuit "court of the United States
for the southern district of Alabama, and, on the 11th day of
April, 1839, recovered a judgnent against Thomas Long and
the appellant, in the name of Wanzer, for the sum of $1,691, in
damages and costs of suit.
That, after the rendition of the said judgment, the appellant
was informed by Wanzer that Fisher and Johnson, or Fisher,
had owed him a small sum of money, which had been fully
paid off, and that he did not know why suits had been brought
in his name on the said note, and on other notes mentioned in
the receipt of the said attorneys; and, at the same time, further
stated that he had no right, and did not pretend to have any
right or interest whatsoever, in the judgment recovered in his
name.
That Huntei claims a right to this judgment, upon what precise authority the appellant does not know, as he has never
heard, and does not believe, that it has been ever transferred or
assigned to him by Vazer; but, on the contrary, believes and
alleges that any such transfer or assignment by.WVanzer has
never been made.
That Hunter, as the appellant has been informed and believes,
Was bound as surety or indor er for Fisher and Johnson, or
Fisher; but in what manner, or for what amount, if so bound,
the appellant is not informed; that he does not know whether
the said Hunter has paid out of his. own funds any money as
surety or indorser, either for Fisher or Fisher and Johnson,
but, to the best of his knowledge. and belief, Hunter has not
paid from his own funds any money, as surety or indorser for
either, or, if he has, such payment has been fully reimbursed to
him.
That, for a large portion, if not for the whole liability of'said
Hunter for Fisher, or Fisher and Johnson, he was secured and
indemnified by a mortgage or deed of trust on real estate and
slaves, which have been sold under said mortgage or deed of
trust; in addition to which, there came to the hands of the said
Hunter, and were collected by him, promissory notes, accounts,
credits, property, and effcts of Fisher and Johnson, and of the
said Fisher, both before and since his death, of great value, and
were appropriated by Hunter to his indemnity, as surety and
indorser as aforesaid, and to an amount greatly exceeding any
liability he may have incurred, as surety or indorser as aforesaid, leaving the said Hunter largely indebted to the estate of
said John Fisher.

SUPREME

COURT.

Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

That Thomas Long, one of the defendants, against whom,
conjointly with the appellant, the judgment aforesaid was
recovered, and who died some time in the year 1843, did, in
the year 1841, inform the appellant that John S. Hunter having
claimed of Long the amount of said judgment, it was fully
paid off and discharged by Long, who showed to the appellant
a stiatement or receipt for the amount of the judgment, in the
handwriting of Hunter, with whose writing the appellanft is well
acquainted.
That Hunter, under the pretext of an indemnity for his liabilities for Fisher, has been permitted by the attorneys, by
whom the judgment in the name of Wanzer was obtained, to
assume entire control over said judgment; and, in pursuance
of said permission, did, on the 2d of May, 1839, sue out a writ
of fieri facias, and, on the 10th of January, 1840, an alias fieri
facias upon that judgment, on each of which writs a return of
nulla bona was duly made.
That, from the date of the return upon the alas fieri facias,
no proceeding was had upon said judgment until the 17th of
September, 1849, when a pluries fieri facias thereupon was
sued out, as the appellant charges, by the direction of John S.
Hunter, and has been levied upon the property of the appellant;
and, since then, a summons has been served, in virtue of the
said judgment, upon John N. Smith, as a garnishee, upon the
alleged ground that said Smith is a debtor to the appellant, or
has property of the appellant in his possession.
That Hunter is wrongfuily and oppressively, by means of the
last-mentioned execution, and of the summons of the garnishee,
Smith, harassing the appellant, by an effort to coerce from him
the amount of the said judgment, when, in truth, nothing is
due thereon, either to Wanzer or Hunter.
Upon the allegations above set forth, the prayers of the appellant are for a decree: 1. That the judgment against the appellant and Long may be decreed to have been satisfied; or,
2. That the appellant,-as administrator de bonis non of John
Fisher, deceased, may be declared entitled to the said judgment,
and the control of the same, if any thing shall be found due
thereon. 3. That the said John S. Hunter and Moses Wanzer
may be restrained from proceeding against the appellant, on the
said judgment, and may be ordered to account for and pay to
the appellant any money they may have collected upon the said
judgment. 4. That if the said Hunter shall claim the judgment as an indemnity for any liability of himself, as surety or
indorser of Fisher and Johnson, or of John Fisher, he may be
ordered .and tequired to show on what debt or debts he was
bound, as indorser or surety, and what portion of such debt or

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

361

Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

debts he has paid out of his own individual funds, and that he
may be ordered to discover and account for all the property, real
and personal, moneys, credits, &c., of the said Fisher and Johnson, br of. the said Fisher, ever claimed, used, or received by
him, for the purpose of his indemnity, as surety or indorser of
Fisher and Johnson, or of Fisher individualISy.
The appellant, with the view of sustaining his case, and of
eliciting from the appellee any disclosure which might tend to
such a result, has, in his bill, propounded a number of interrogatories.
In our examination of this cause, we have deemed it necessary to consider such only of the interrogatories so propeunded,
as connected with and -rising out of the allegations of the bill,
do, by a comparison with the statements in the answer, present
the true points or questions involved in this controversy.
Those questions relate: 1. To the- extent of liability of the
respondent, Hunter, as surety or indorser for John Fisher, and
to the sufficiency or excess of the means of indemnity alleged
to have been actually received by him, for losses incurred under
that liability.
2. To the alleged payment by Long to Hunter, in discharge
of the judgment recovered in the name of Wanzer.
3. To the fact of a transfer, either legal or equitable, of thejudgment just mentioned, and to the right or authority of the
attorneys, or of their principal, Fisher, to make a tran~sfer or
appropriation of that judgment.
Of the several defendants to the bill of the appellant, John S.
.Hunter alone answered that bill.
By the answer of Hunter is set out the assumption by himi
as indorser upon bills and drafts drawn by Fisher and Johnson,
under an arrangement between this firm and Messrs.. Gordon,
Campbell, and Chandler, representing as counsel and attorneyr
the creditors of Fisher and Johnson, of debts to the amount of
M28227.25.
The facts of this undertaking, and of its subsequent fulfilment by Hunter, chiefly by his individual resources, are abundantly established by the exhibition of the agreement itself;
by the testimony of Messrs. Campbell.and Chandler, with whom,
for the benefit of the creditors, the agreement was made, and
through whose hands the indorsed bills passed; by the evidence of Stodder and of Jayne, to each of 'whom a portion of
those bills was transferred, in satisfaction of debts due to them
from Fisher; and also by the evidence of Barney, to whom,
as the agent of the United States Bank,,a much larger portion
of those bills was delivered.
In addition to the liabilities set forth as above, it is proved
VOL. X I..

31

862

SUPREME COURT.
Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

by the testimony of John A. Campbell, Esq., that Hunter, on
the 16th of April, 1838, by his attorneys, Gordon, Campbell,
and Chandler, paid to the Bank of Columbus, upon a judgment
obtained by that bank against him, the sum of $4,818.27,
which sum, the witness was informed by Fisher, was a debt
incurred by Hunter for Fisher.
The answer contains a statement purporting to be a full
exhibit of the money raised by sales of the property pledged
by Fisher for the indemnity of his sureties and indorsers, as
well as of all other sums derived from Fisher or from his
debtors, and which have been applied for Hunter's reimbursement. This statement iii the answer, including the judgment
To this
against Hinkle and Long, amounts to $16,553.28.
statement, however, must be added the sum of $2,200, proved
by the witness, Sadler, to have been paid to Hunter, upon the
compromise of a debt due from Sadler and Barnes, and also a
sum of $176, shown to have been received from a witness, Gilchrist: which sums, though derived from Fisher, are not comprised in statement in the answer. There is also exhibited in
proof, in this case, a list of claims, by notes and open accounts,
making an aggregate of $2,115.83, assigned by the exEcutor
of Fisher to Hunter and Cook, attorneys; which claims, it is
stated in the assignment, were intended to meet the liabilities
of Hunter for said John Fisher; but of these claims, many of
which were not above $3, and resting upon open accounts, it is
not in proof that any portion of them was certainly applied to
Hunter's indemnity, or, indeed, was ever collected. But conceding the fact that the sums spoken of by Sadler and Gilchrist,
and the entire list of claims assigned as above mentioned, were
realized by Hunter, they would, when added to the sum of
$16,558.28, admitted in the answer, compose . aggregate
falling far short of the liabilities which Hunter, as the indorser
and surety for John Fisher, and Fisher and Johnson, under the
agreement with Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler, has actually
incurred, and is proved to have satisfied. Upon a correct view,
therefore, of the proofs in this cause, we are led to the conclusion, in opposition to the allegations in the bill, and in accordance with the answer and the proofs, that Fisher and Johnson,
and John Fisher, who, at the time of his death, was utterly
insolvent, had failed, by a large deficiency, to reimburse to
Hunter the losses incurred by the latter as indorser and surety
for the former.
The second question which we have mentioned as arising
in this cause, namely. that of satisfaction by Long of the
judgment against tong, Inkle, and Fisher, has not been
entirely free from embarrassment when tested by the rules

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

363

Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

which govern proceedings in courts of equity. Correctly
viewed, however, we deem that embarrassment rather apparent than real, and such as yields necessarily under a correct
interpretation of the pleadings and evidence in this cause. It
has been contended, that the interrogatory propouhded by the
bill, as to the payment by Long to Hunter of the judgment in
the name of Wanzer, and the execution by Hunter of a receipt
in full discharge of that judgment, is not directly answered;
that the answer as to this interrogatory is evasive, and therefore
is deprived of that weight which, if directly responsive, it would
require the testimony of two witnesses, or that of one witness
with strong corroborating circumstances, to overthrow. -Hence
it is insisted, that the testimony of the single witness, Mrs.
Long, swearing positively to the written discharge or receipt of
the amount of the judgment, must be taken as conclusive upon
the subject of payment.
The rule of proceeding in equity here appealed to, is too'well
established and too familiar to require the citation of authorities for its support, or even to admit of its being questioned.
The proper inquiry upon the point under consideration is, to
ascertain how far the requirements of that rule have been complied with.
The-charge in the bill in terms is as follQws: " That your
orator, sometime in the year 1841, was informed by Thomas
Long, that he had fully paid off and satisfied to the said
Hunter the amount of the said judgment; and the said Long
then produced and showed to your orator a receipt or state,ment, in writing, signed by said John S. Hunter, whose handwriting was well known to your orator, showing that the sait,
judgment had been so paid and satisfied by said Long."
Upon the basis of this charge is constructed and propounded
the 13th interrogatory, in these words: "Did or did not the said
Thomas Long, at any time or in any manner, pay, satisfy,
settle, or secure to the said John S. Hunter the amount of the
said judgment. or -any part thereof? Did or did not the said
Hunter give or sign any receipt or statement, showing the pay•ment, settlement, satisfaction, or securing the said judgment or
any part thereof ?"
Divesting this interrogatory of unnecessary verboseness and
tautology, it may be remarked, that the substance or meaning
of the charge in the bill, and the object of the interrogatory
framed upon that charge, are made up of the alleged facts of
payment by Long to Hunter, and of a written acknowledgment of such payment by the latter. The terms pay, satisfy,
settle, or secure, are equipollent words, when used to express the
fulfilment by Long of his liability upon the judgment, and in

SUPREME COURT.
Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

a similar sense must be understood the terms receipt and statement, when used to describe a written acknowledgment of payment by a party making or signing such acknowledgment.
And here it may be remarked, that whatever may be the technical meaning and effect of the word release at law, it can
hardly be doubted that a receipt or written acknowledgment of
payment or settlement would be construed as a release in a
court which looks rather to the substance of things than to
their forms; and whose maxim is, 'ut res mnagis valeat quam
pereat. The reply to the 13th interrogatory is, that the respondent had not received from Long any settlement, payment, or
satisfaction. So far, the reply to the interrogatory falls within
the literal terms of that inquiry. But it proceeds to state
further, that the respondent has never released Long from his
liability to satisfy the judgment, and this form of denial, it is
insisted, does not exclude the execution of a written receipt
such as has been alleged in the bill, and mentioned by the witness, Mary Long. We have already said that, in equity at least,
a receipt for the payment of debt would be regarded as a release
from further demand by the creditor; and we think that, according to the generally received acceptation of language, a
creditor who, in speaking of his debtor, denies having received
of him either selt1ement, payment, or satisfaction, and in the
same statement avers that he has never released that debtor,
must be understood as intending to declare that he had given
him no written acknowledgment of payment, nor acquittance of
any description whatsoever. The exception now urged to the
answer to the 13th interrogatory, even upon the face of that.
response, appears to partake more of the character of a verbal
criticism than of that of a fair and substantial impeachment.
And we are the less inclined to extend the scope of this exception, since the complainant below, by a more timely and regular
proceeding, might have obtained what he now contends for,
without hazard of injury or surprise to the respondent.
We regard the answer as substantially responsive, and entitled to every legal effect incident to it as such.
With respect to the circumstances connected with this charge
of payment in the bill, we think that so far as they have been
disclosed, their preponderance is decidedly to the statement in
the answer.
The bill admits the insolvency of Long at the period of his
death. At what precise time he became insolvent is not stated.
It is not probable that he became insolvent just at that period;
and the widow of Long, whose testimony is relied on to establish the payment and the existence of the receipt in 1841, assigns as a reason for her knowledge of these transactions, her
familiarity with her husband's embarrassments at that date.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

365

Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

Alfred Harrison, in December, 1851, swears, that from the 4th of
March, 1839, to the 4th of March, 1842, he was sheriff of Lowndes
county, in which Long lived and died, and was also sheriff
of that county at the time of his testifying. That as sheriff, he
has had in his hands various executions against Long, and
although some of them were for very small sums, he was never
able to collect any one of them, and had returned on them, "No
property."
B. Harrison, another witness, states, that from March, 1839,
to March, 1842, he acted as deputy sheriff of the county of
Lowndes, and from March, 1842, to March, 1845, was sheriff of
that county; that, as sheriff and deputy sheriff, he had opportunities of knowing the pecuniary situation of Long, against
whom the witness had held various executions, not one of
which could be collected, but all of which were returned, "No
pro-'rty found." It should be remarked here, that the statement of these sheriffs covgrs the entire interval from 1839 to
1845, including the period of the alleged payment by Long, as
well as that of his death. It is proper further to observe, that on
the judgment now under consideration, there were sued out
two writs of flerifacias, one of them as late as January, 1840,
on each of which writs was made the return of nulla bana. It
would, we think, challenge no ordinary degree of credulity to
believe, that a man in whose possession no property could be
found for five years previous to his death, and who in the case
before us had resisted to the very extreme of the law, should;
during the sai -. time, have voluntarily discharged an obligation which it is shown he was both unable and unwilling to
fulfil.
The returns upon the ft. fa. and alias ft. fa. sued upon this
judgment, afford a satisfactory explanation of a circumstance
from which it has been endeavored to deduce a presumption
unfavorable to the appellee. That circumstance is the lapse of
time between the return upon the alias and the suing out of the
pluries fA fa. upon the judgment. The solution is this: the
plaintiff in the judgment having ascertained, by two experiments, the futility of process against the defendants, was unwilling for the time being, to repeat such experiments, which
were not only useless but expensive; but were, perhaps, induced subsequently to renew their efforts, by some change in
the condition of parties, from which success was rendered more
probable.
The remaining inquiry for consideration relates to the assignment or appropriation of the judgment, and the right or
power of Fisher or his attorneys to make such appropriation for
the benefit of Hunter. The true character of the transaction
31 *

SUPREME

COURT.

Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

with reference to this judgment is disclosed in its history contained in the deposition of John A. Campbell, Esq., taken in
this cause. The facts as therein narrated, are substantially
these: The law firm of Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler, in the
year 1837, having in their hands a very large amount of claims
of the creditors of Fisher, in order to avoid being sued upon
those claims, Fisher arranged a portion of them by giving the
drafts specified in the answer of Hunter, and which were indorsed
by Hunter. The residue of those claims he arranged by depositing various notes with the firm of Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler, to be collected by that firm, and by them to be applied in satisfaction of the debts of Fisher. Amongst the notes so deposited
was that executed by Thomas Long, George D. Fisher, and the
appellant, Hinkle, on which the judgment in the name of Wanzer has been obtained. And it may be in this place remarked,
that in exhibit A. filed with the bill of the complainant below,
and relied on by him, and which exhibit is the receipt of
Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler, for the notes deposited with
them byFisher, after an enumeration of those notes, is contained the following stipulation, namely: "4The proceeds of all
which, notes, as they shall be collected, are to be appropriated
by us to the payment of any demands we may hold against the
said Fisher and Johnson, upon their own debts, and not upon
indorsements or liabilities for others." Here, then, we have a
contract between Fisher and Johnson and their creditors, represented by Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler, who held various
-claims of those creditors against Fisher and Johnson - a contract founded on the consideration of forbearance as well as on
the claims themselves, and therefore beyond the power of Fisher
and Johnson to revoke or control - constituting Messrs. Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler trustees for the creditors of Fisher
and Johnson, and with full power to appropriate the funds provided for their payment.
It is probable that every one of the notes placed in the
hands of Messrs. Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler, bore upon it
the indorsement of Fisher and Johnson, or of John Fisher; but
as it is not rational to impute to these persons the design to
frustrate their arrangement in the very act of making it we
must conclude that such indorsement, if made, was designed to
give more complete control of these notes to the persons to
whose management the notes and their proceeds were expressly
intrusted. Wanzer was a creditor of Fisher, on a note for
$885.89, which note was in the hands of Gordon, Campbell, and
Chandler, and was provided for and paid out of the funds or
notes deposited with the firm; but it would be absurd as well
as unjust to the other creditors of Fisher and Johnson, to -up-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

367

Hinkle v. Wanzer et al.

pose that to this demand on behalf of Wanzer, there wbs to be
specifically appropriated out of the funds designed for all the
creditors of Fisher, an amount equal to double tiat demand.
This pretension, too, would contradict the explicit statements,
on oath, of.Messrs. Campbell and Chandler, who held and'discharged the note due to Wanzer, who also recovered the judgment against Long, Fisher, and Hinkle, and who state that
Wanzer's claim had been paid out of other securities of Fisher,
in their hands, and that Wanzer had no interest whatsoever
in the judgment rendered in his name.
Such being the history of this case, it would seem to follow
that the right to the judgment against Long, Fisher, and Hinkle
remrined in Campbell and Chandler, to be appropriated by them
under their agreement, t6 the creditors of Fisher, or to be so disposed of by Fisher, with their assent. Upon this view of the
law, we can perceive no valid objection .to the authority given
by Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler, especially with Fisher's
express sanction, to Hunter, the chief creditor of Fisher, to control and apply to his indemnity the judgment sought to be
enjoined. No such objection, surely, can be sustained, unless it
can be shown that an equitable interest cannot be assigned-a
position which could rest upon no principle of justice, and
which, at this day, it would be idle to atiempt to sustain upon
authority.
If the general indorsement by Fisher, acconrpanied with the
delivery of the note of Long, Fisher, 'and Hinkle, to Gordon,
Campbell, and Chandler, created in the latter an absolute legal
right and property.in that note, no exception could, of course, be
taken to any exercise or application of the right and property so
vested in them. If, on the other hand, the indorsement and delivery of the note created a trust for the beneft of the creditors
of Fisher, and consequently for the benefit of Fisher himself, by
his exoneration pro tanto, there remained in Fisher an equitable
interest in the note and in the judgment rendered thereon, which
he had a right, with or without the a'ssent of the trustees, to
assign or apply in payment of his creditors; such assignment
or application he has made, in cooperation :with those trustees,
to his principal creditor, Hunter, and this act of Fisher in his
lifetime has, since his death, been sanctioned by his personal
representative.
Notwithstanding the strictness, particularly in the earlier cases
in the courts of common law, with respect to assignments of
equitable interests and ciLoses in action, the-books abound with
cases showing that the rule at the common law has been much
relaxed, or almost disregarded, by the courts of equity, whichy
from a very early period, have held that assignments for valua-

SUPREME COURT.
Hinkle v. Wanzer.et al.

ble consideration, of a mere possibility, are valid, and will be
carried into effect upon the same principle as they enforce the
performance of an agreement, when not contrary to their own
rules or to public policy. In the case of Wright v. Wright,
1 Ves. 412, it is said by Lord Hardwicke: " That such an
assignment always operates by way of agreement or contract,
amounting, in the consideration of the court, to this: that one
agrees with another to transfer and make good that right or interest." By the same judge it is said, in the case of Row v.
Dawson, 1 Ves. 331, that for such an assignment no particular
words are necessary, but any words are sufficient which show
an intention of transferring the chose in action for the use of the
assignee.
It has been expressly ruled, that a mere expectancy, as that
of an heir at law to the estate of his ancestor, or the interest
which a person may take under the will of another then living,
or the share to which such person may become entitled under
an appointment or in personal estate, as presumptive next of
kin, is assignable in equity. Hobson v. Trevor, 2 P. Wms. 191;
Wethered v. Wethered, 2 Sim. 183; Smith v. Baker, 1 Y. and
Coll. 223; Carleton v. Leighton, 3 Mer. 671; Hinde v. Blake,
3 Beav. 235. The numerous authorities upon this point are
collated in the second volume of White and Tudor's Leading
Cases in Equity, in the note of the editors upon the cases of
Row v. Dawson, and Ryall v, Rowles, p. 204, et seq. A decision which bears very directly upon the case before us is
that by Sir James Wigram, vice-chancellor, of Kirwin v. Daniel,
5 Hare, 500, in which it was ruled: "That where a creditor, in
whose behalf a stake has been deposited by the debtor with a
third person, receives notice of that fact from the stakeholder,
the notice will convert the stakeholder into an agent for, and
debtor to, the creditor."
In the present case, Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler were put
in possession, by Fisher, of funds to be applied by them to Fisher's creditors, and had, by their written agreement, undertaken
so to appropriate those funds. Hunter, a principal creditor of
Fisher, is, by information received both from Fisher and from
Gordon, Campbell, and Chandler, made cognizant of this deposit,
and of the purpose to apply it to his indemnity. He accepts the
proffer made him, and claims the benefit of it. And by instructions from Fisher, both verbal and written, as is proved in this
cause, those depositories were directed to apply the funds under
their control (amongst those funds the judgment against Long,
Fisher, and Hinkle) to the benefit and protection of Hunter.
Upon this single aspect of the transaction, can it be doubted
that these depositories were authorized and bound to conform

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

369

Fontain v. Ravenel.

to the instructions thus given? We think that both their
authority and duty so to do admit of no doubt. The decree of
the circuit court, dismissing the bill of the complainant in that
court, being warranted by the view we have taken of the law and
the evidence in this case, we order that decree to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the southerndistrict of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideratioftwhereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

FONTAIN, ADMINISTRATOR de bonis no cumn testa
OF FREDERICK KOHNE, DECEASED, APPtLLAN7
V. WILLIAM RAVENEL.

WILLIAM

mento anne xo

A resident in Pennsylvania made his will, in 1829, giving annuities to his wife and
others, and directing that his executors, or the survivor of them, after the decease of
his wife, should provide for the annuitants, thpn living, and dispose of the resjdue of
his property for the use of such charitable institutions in Pennsylvania and South
Carolina as they or he may deem most beneficial to mankind.
His wife and three other persons were appoihted executors.
The thrie other persons all died during the lifetime of the wife. No appointment
of the charity was made or attempted to be made during the lifetime of the executors.
The charity cannot now be carried out.
The exe utors were vested with a mere power of appointment without having any
special trust attached to it. In England, the case could only be reached by the prerogative power of the crown acting through the sign-manual of the king.
The English and American cases upon this subject examined.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
It was a bill filed by Fontain, as administrator de bonis no

eum testarnento annexo of Frederick .Kohne, deceased, against
Ravenl, one of the executors of Mrs. Kohne, the widow of the
deceased Frederick. The object of the bill was to.recover from
the defendant certain sums of money which came into the hands
of the widow, as executrix of her husband, for the purpose of
applying them to some charitable bequests made in the will of
Frederick Kohne. These are stated, as well as the other circumstances of the. case, in the opinion of the court, .and need
not be repeated.

