DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

477

Minturn v. Maynard et al.

CHARLES MINTURN, APPELLANT, v. LAFAYETTE MAiYNARD, GILBERT A. GRANT, THOuIAs G. WELLS, LUCIEN SKINNER, FREDERICK BILLINGS, CHARLES J. BEENHAir, IsAAc T. MOTT, J.DE
LA MONTAGNE, E. M. NEAL, AND THOMAS L. CHAPMAN.
Where a libel was filed in personam, against the owners of a steamboat in California,
by their general agent or broker, for the balance of an account for money paid, laid
out, and expended, in paying for supplies, repairs, and advertising of, the steamboat, together with commissions on the disbursements, the libel was properly dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.
There was nothing inthe case to bring.it within the class of maritime contracts; nor
does the local law of California, which authorizes an attachment of vessels for supplies or repairs, extend to the bhlance of accounts between agent and principal,
who have never dealt on the credit, pledge, or security of the vessel,

THIS was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The case is sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by MV!r. Brent and Mr. May, for the appellant,
and by .Mr. atting, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the. court.
The respondents were sued in admiralty, by process in personain. The libel charges that they are owners of the steamboat Gold Hunter; that they had appointed the li ellant their
general agent or broker; and exhibits a bill, showing a balance
of accounts due libellant for money paid, laid out, and expended for the use of respondents, in paying for supplies,
repairs, and advertising of the steamboat, and numerous other
charges, together with commissions on the disbursements, &c.
The court below very properly dismissed'the libel, for want of
jurisdiction. There is nothing in the natur6 of a maritini
contract in the case. The libel shows nothing but a demand
for a balance of accounts between agent and principal, for which
an action of assumpsit, in a common law court, is the proper
remedy. That the money advanced and paid for respondents
was, in whole or in part,to pay bills due by a steamboat for
repairs or supplies, will not make the transaction maritime, or
give the libellant a remedy in admiralty. Nor does the local
law of California, which authorizes an attachment of vessels for
supplies or repairs, extend to the balance of accounts between
agent and prh-cipal, who have never dealt on the credit, pledge,
or security of the vessel.
The case is too plain for argument.
The judgment of the court of admiralty, dismissing the libel
for want of jurisdiction, is affirmed with costs.

SUPREME COURT.
Florida v. Georgia.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the northern district of California, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said district court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

THE

STATE

OF FLORIDA, COMPLAINANT, v. THE
GEORGIA.

STATE

OF

In cases in which this court has original jurisdiction, the form of proceeding is not
regulated by act of congress, but by the rules and orders of the court.
These rules and orders are framed in analogy to the practice in the English court of
chancery. But the court does not follow this practice, where it would embarrass
the case by unnecessary technicality or defeat the purposes of justice.
There is no mode of proceeding by which the United States can bring into review
the decision of this court upon a question of boundary between two States. Justice therefore requires that the United States, which represent the rights and interests
of the other twenty-nine States, should have an opportunity of being beard before
the boundary is established.
The attorney-general having filed an information, stating that the interests of the
United States are involved in the establishment of the boundary line betweenFlorida
and Georgia, he has a right to appear on behalf of the United States and adduce
proofs in support of the boundary claimed by them to be the true one, and to be
heard at the argument.
The United States will not, by this proceeding, become a party in .he technical sense
of the word, and no judgment will be entered for or against them. But the evidence
and arguments offered, in their behalf, will be considered by the court in deciding
the matter in controversy.
Each party is at liberty to cause surveys and maps to be made. But the court does
not deem it advisable to appoint persons for this purpose.

IN 11 How. 293, it is reported that the State of Florida filed
a bill in this court, in the exercise of its original jurisdiction,
against the State of Georgia to establish a boundary between
them. The State of Georgia answered, and other proceedings
were had; but the case was not yet at issue, nor was all the
testimony taken upon which the parties proposed to rely.
At the present term, the attorney-general appeared in court
and filed the following information, moving at the same time
for leave to intervene on behalf of the United States for the
reasons stated in the information.
Now, on this 15th day of December, 1854, Caleb Cushing,
attorney-general of the United States, in his proper person comes
here into the court, and for the said United States gives the
court to understand and be informed, that a certain bill of corn-

