DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

275

Stafford et ux:. v. Union Bank of Louisiana.

For the opinions of Mr. Chief Justice Taney and Mr. Justice
Daniel, see the preceding case of Williams, administrator of
Williams, v. Gibbes and Oliver, executors of Robert Oliver,
deceased.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the-transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Maryland, and was argued by counsel On consideratiQn whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit
court for further proceedings to be had therein, in confortity
to the opinion of this court.

IN THE 1_ATTER OF JOSIAH S. STAFFORD AND JEANNETTE KIRKLAND, HIS WIFE, APPELLANTS, v. THE UJNION BANK OF

LoUIsIANA.
Where an appeal from a decree in chancery is intended to operate as a supersedeas,
the security given in the appeal bond must be equal to the amount of the decree, as
it is in the case of a judgment at common law.
Where the security is insufficient, this court will, upon motion of the appellee, lay a
rule upon the judge below, to show cause why a mandamus should not issue, cominanding him to carry into execution the decree of the court below.
Upon cause shown by the judge that, having taken what he considered to be good
and sufficient security, the cause was appealed to this court which removed it from
his jurisdiction, and that he had no power to make an order in the case, this court
will order a peremptory mandamus.
But as the security given was sufficient to bring the case before this court by appeal,
a mot. in to dismiss the appeal must be overruled.

THIS -was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the State of Texas.
It was before the court at tile last term, and is reported in
16 How, 135.
It will be seen, by a reference to that case, that the court
expressed its opinion, that where there was a decree in chancery from which an appeal was taken, in order to make that
appeal operate as a supersedeas, the security given in the
appeal bond must be equal to the amount of the decree, as it is
in the case of a judgment at common law.
It will also be seen, that a motion to dismiss the appeal could
not be entertained, because the time had not expired within
which the appellant was allowed to file the record; nor could a
motion be entertained to award a procedendo.

SUPREME

COURT.

Stafford et ux. v. Union Bank of Louisiana.

It will also be seen, (p. 141,) that the court suggested a mode
of relief, by moving for a rule on the district judge, to show
cause why a mandamus should not be issued.
Taking the case up at this period of its history it now
becomes necessary to trace the subsequent proceedings.
On the 12th of May, 1854, the Union Bank of Louisiana filed
the following petition -" To the honorable the justices of the supreme court of the
United States: " The petition of the Union Bank of Louisiana, a corporation duly established by the laws of the State of Louisiana,
respectfully showeth: That on the 5th day of March, 1848,
your petitioner filed its bill in the district court of the United
States for the district of Texas, against Josiah S. Stafford and
Jeannette Kirkland Stafford, his wife, whekeby your petitioner
sought to obtain a foreclosure of a certain mortgage, held by it
on certain negro slaves, then in the possession of the said
defendants; but, at the hearing in the said court, and by the
decree thereof, the said bill was dismissed. And your petitioner
further showeth, that from the decree of the said court, directing the dismissal of the said bill, an appeal was prayed by
your petitioner to this court; and, at the December term, 1851,
the said decree was reversed, and the cause remanded to the
said district court, with directions to that court to enter a
decree in favor of your petitioner; and, accordingly, such a
decree was in fact rendered by the said district court, on the
25th of February, 1854, whereby it was in substance directed
that the sums accruing from the hire of the mortgaged slaves,
while in the custody of the receiver, pendente lite, amountiig
to $25,379.39, should be paid by the receiver to the complainant, and credited on the total amount found to be due by the
defendants, and that, in case the defendants failed to pay over
the balance remaining due after such credit, amounting to
$39,877.13, on the 1st day of July, 1854, they should be foreclosed of their equity of redemption, and the marshal should
seize and sell the mortgaged slaves at public auction, on the
third day of the same month, or as soon thereafter as may be,
after giving three months' notice, by advertisement, of the time,
place, and terms of sale, and should pay to the complainant,
your petitioner, out of the proceeds of such sale, the aforesaid
sum of $39,877.13, in satisfaction of the debt secured by the
said mortgage. And your petitioner further showeth, that
although it appeared, by the said decree, that the total amount
due thereby to your petitioner was the sum of $65,256.52, yet
the said district court thereafter, to wit, on the 7th day of
March, 1854, in violation of the statutes of the United States,

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

277

Stafford et ux. v. Union Bank of Louisiana.

and of the right of your petitioner, allowed the said defendants
to take an 'appeal from the said decree to this court, which
should act as a supersedeas,upon their giving a bond in the
penal sum of $10,000 alone, conditioned that they prosecuted
their said appeal with effect, and answer all damages and costs
if they fail to make their plea good; and when the said defendants had, on the day aforesaid, tendered such a bond, with certain sureties thereon named, the said district court ordered,
notwithstanding the objectiolis interposed on the part of your
petitioiier, that the bond of appeal, so taken and fired, operates
as a supersedeas to the decree of tie said court, hereinbefore
set forth; all of which will fully appear by reference to the
transcript of the record of the said cause, brought up to this
court on the first appeal, and to the transcript of the record of
the subsequent proceedings in the said cause, filed in this court
ii support of a motion made, on the part of your petitioner, at
the present tern, to dismiss the said second appeal, taken as
aforesaid, by the said defendants.
" And your petitioner further showeth, that the action of the
said district court, in ordering it to be entered that the tppeal
bond so taken operates as a sitpersedeas"and stays the'execution of the said decree, is contrary to law, and oppressive to
your petitioner; that, unless this court interpose, a d6lay of
one or two years must intervene before the decree can be cArried into effect; and, meanvhile, the security for the final payment of the amount decreed to- be due and payable to your
petitioner is wholly insufficient, and much less than the amount
required by law, and that your petitioner has no remedy save
in the present application to this court.
"Wherefore your petitioner humbly prayeth, that your honon
would be pleased to order that o writ of mandamus, in duE
form, be at. once issued from this court, returnable to the first
Friday of the next term thereof, commanding and requiring the
Honorable John C. Watrous, judge of the district court of the
United States for the district of Texas, to cause the decree, so
as aforesaid rendered by the said court, on the 2-5th day of February, 1854,to be at once cartied into execution, according to
the terms thereof, notwithstanding tlie appeal so taken by the
said defendafits, or, on failure thereof, to show to this court, on
the said return day, why the sare has not been done.
"And in support of this petition, your petitioner refers to the
transcripts hereinbefore mentioned, and to the records of this
court in relation to the said cause, and will ever pray, &c.
" IL S. CoxE,
" W. G. HALE,
"For tke Union Ba.,k of Louisiana"
May 12, 1854.
VOL. XVIL

24

SUPREME

COURT.

Stafford et ux. v. Union Bank of Louisiana.

And, on the same day, the counsel made the following mo-

tion :In the supreme court of the United States, December Term,
1853.
Ex parte. The Union Bank of Louisiana.
" The counsel for the Union Bank of Louisiana, in accordance with the prayer of the petition h rewith filed, on behalf of
the said bank, now move the court to o der that a writ of mandamus, in due form, do at once issue from this court, returnable
to the first Friday of the next term thereof, commanding
the Hon. John C. Watrous, judge of the district court of the
United States for the district of Texas, to cause the decree
rendered by the said district court, on the twenty-fifth day of February, 1854, in a certain cause therein then depending, between
the said Union Bank of Louisiana as complainant, and Josiah
S. Stafford, and Jeanette Kirdand Stafford, his wife, as defendants, to be at once carried into execution, accordii g to the terms
theierf, or, on failure thereof, to show to this court, on the
return day of said writ, why the same has not been done.
" And in case the court do not think fit to make such order,
then the counsel for said Union Bank of Louisiana move the
court to grant a rule on the said district judge, requiring him to
show cause, on the first Friday of the next term of this court,
why a peremptory writ of mandamus should not issue, for the
purpose above stated. And in support of this motion, the
counsel refer to the said petition, and to the transcripts therein
mentioned.
"RI S. CoxE,

" W. G.

HAL.E,

"For the Union Bank of Louisiana."
On the 15th of May, 1854, a rule was laid upon the district
judge, to show cause, at the next term, why a mandamus should
not be issued, commanding him to cause the decree entered by
the said district judge, on the 25th of February,'1854, betiveen
the above parties, to be carried into execution, according to the
terms thereof.
In this position the case stood, at the opening of the present
term.
The district judge showed cause in a return, which is set
forth, in extenso, in the order of this court, which follows the
opinion in this report; and it is, therefore, unnecessary.,here to
copy that return.
Shortly after the commencement of the term, Mr. Coxe
moved to dismics the appeal, because the appellants had filed

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

279

Stafford et ux. v. Union B'ank of Louisiana.

no sufficient bonds; and, also, that the rule upon the district
judge, should be made absolute, and a peremptory mandamus
awarded.
The first motion was overruled, and the second granted.
The case was argued for Judge Watrous, by 1'r. Robert
Hughes, who contended that the appeal placed the case'in the
supreme court, and that the court below had no longer any
jurisdiction over it; and cited I Overton Tem. Rep. 21; 1 Gallison, 503; 6 Wheat. 194; Gilpin's Rep. 34; 9 Wheat. 553.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in chancery from the district court of
Texas.
A motion is made by the counsel for the appellees, to dismiss
the appeal, because the defendants have filed no sufficient bond.
Also, that a rule on the district judge, to show cause why a
peremptory mandamus should not be,issued, granted at the last
term, be made absolute.
At the last term, a motion was made to dismiss this cause,
and to award a procedendo, on the ground that the appeal bond
was insufficient.
On consideration of that motion, the court held, that the
bond for $10,000, given on the appeal from a decree for the
payment of $65,000, was insufficient, as the act of congress
requires a bond in the amount of a judgment or decree, to prosecute the appeal or writ of error with effect.
But the court overruled the motion to dismiss the appeal and
award a procedendo, for the reason that, from the time tile appeal'
was taken, the appellant was not bound, under tle acts of congress and the rules of court, to enter the appeal on the docket
of this court, before the present term.
During the same term, on motion, anile was ordered on the
district judge to show cause, at the present term, why a mandamus should not be issued, commanding him to dause the decree
entered by the said district judge, on the 25th February, IZ,54,
between the above parties, to be carried iftto execution according to the terms thereof.
In answer to the rule the judge states, that having taken what
he considere& to be good and sufficient security, as the'law required, the cause was appealed.to the supreme court, which
removed it from his jurisdiction, and that lie haid no power to
make an order in the case.
It was the duty of the judge, in allowing the appeal, to take
security on the appeal in the sum decreed ; and not having done
so, the appellant was not entitled to a suPersedeasof any.process
necessary to carry the decree into effect; and the judge was

.280 *

SUPREME COURT.
Stafford et ux. v. Union Bank of Louisiana.

bound to issue it, on the application of the plaintiff. The court,
therefore, order that a peremptory mandamus issue, commanding
the judge forthwith to carry the decree into effect.
But as the security given was sufficient to bring the cause
.before the court by appeal, though not sufficient to suspend the
execution of the same, the court overruled the motion to dismiss
the appeal.
Order.
The Honorable John C. Watrous, distriqt judge of the United
States for the district of Texas, having filed a return to the rule
granted at the last term in this case, requiring him to appear
and show cause, if any he had, why a mandamus should not be
awarded, requiring and commanding him to cause the decree
rendered by the said court, on the 25th day of February, A. D.
1854, in a certain cause therein then depending, between the
said Union Bank of Louisiana, as complainant, and Josiah S.
Stafford and Jeannette Kirkland Stafford, his wife, as defendants,
to be-at once carried into execution, according to the terms
thereof, notwithstanding the appeal from said decree, taken by
the said defendants to this court, and the order of the said court
that the appeal bond filed by the said defendants, on the said
appeal, operated as a supersedeasto the said decree of the said
court
And the cause sh6wn appearing in the following statement
returned by the said district judge, namely:Tns

"UNITED STATES OF 'AuEICA, IN THE SUPREME

COURT,

December Term, 184.
Between Josiah S. Stafford and Jeannette K., his wife, appellants, and the Union Bank of Louisiana, appellee.
The answer of John C. Watrous, judge of the district corit
of the United States for the di~trict of Texas, at Galveston, to
the rule upon him, to show cause why a peremptory mandamus
should not issue; corf-nanding him in said court, to discharge
the supersedeas to the ertforcement of, and to order execution
upon the decree rendered in said court -in favor of the said
Union Bank of Louisiana and against said Josiah S. Stafford
and wife.
The respondent respectfully answers, and certifies, to the
honorable the supreme court of the United States, that on the
6th day of March, 1854, in the district court of the United
States for the district of Texas, at Galveston, which was within
ten days next after the rendition of the decree mentioned in the
caption to this answer, the said Josiah S. Stafford and wife, feel-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

281

Stafford et ux. v. Union Bank of Louisiana.

ing themselves aggrieved by the rendition of the same, in open
court, applied for, and prayed an appeal to the next term thereafter of this court, to be held in the city of Washington on
the Irst Monday in December thereafter: which to them was
granted, upon condition that they entered into good and sufficient bond -with good and sufficient security in the sum of
$10,000,"conditioned that they prosecute their appeal with effect,
arid answer all damages and costs if they should fail-to make
their' plea good, and thereafter and on the same day and year
aforesaid, the said Josiah S. Stafford and wife, in open court,
tendered a bond with-L. C. Stanley, Patrick Perry, and William
H. Clark, as sureties, in the sum of $10,000; and the court-having
inspected the bbnd, and being satisfied that it was in conformity
to law and the order of the court, and that the sureties were
good and sufficient. "It was ordered that the bond be approved,
and it was ordered to be entered, that the bond of April, taken
and filed in this cause, operates as *a supersedeas to the decree
of the court," and thereupon and immediately after the order
granting said appeal, and the giving bond as aforesaid, .and
while the same remained in full force, unreversed and not set
aside, this respondent respectfully submits, that neithei in the
said district court, or in vacation, had he any longer jurisdiction
over the cause between the parties 4foresaid; or any power or
authority to make any order in regard to the supersedeas or to
enforce the execution of the decree aforesaid for the eason
that thenceforward, by virtue of the appeal so takbn and perfected as aforesaid, the said cause between the parties aforesaid,
had passed into and under the control of this court, and which
was the proper forum only in which any such order could or can
be rightly made. .
This respondent further respectfully submits that though, upon
investigation, it should turn out that the bond given for the
appeal, as aforesaid, was not taken in all respects in conforlrity
to the requirements of law, but might be irregular and depart
from such requirements in regard to the amount of the penalty
thereof, or in other respects; yet this diai not render the grant
of the appeal merely void, or in any mranner affect the superse.
deas operated by law, but that .the said appeal and the said
supersedeaswas and continued to be in full force and effect,
and thus will remain until this court, in conformity to its practice, shall dismiss said appeal, and thereby discharge said supersedeas, on account of a failure by the said Josiah S. Stafford
and wife, when thereto required to give such bond as the law
requires, within such time as the court may prescribe.
This respondent further respectfully submits, that the bond
taken and approved, and upon which the appeal before men24w

282

SUPREME COURT.
Stafford et ux. v. Union Bank of Louisiano

tioned was granted, was taken and executed in full, complete,
and perfect conformity to law, and had he power and authority
either in term time or in vacation to make any order in regard
to said supersedeas, or the enforcement of the decree aforesaid
by execution, and an application were made to him for such
order, by reason of the said bond not being in the penalty or to
the amount required by law, he would feel himself constrained
to refuse any such order.
And these are the causes and reasons which this respondent
has to offer why a mandamus should not issue to enforce a discharge of the supersedeas or an execution of the decree aforesaid.
But lie respectfully submits to the judgment of the court, and
will enforce, by order, any direction given by the court in the
premises. The respondent respectfully refers to the brief of
the counsel of tle said Josiah S. Stafford and wife, which will
be filed in this honorable court, and the authorities therein referred to, in support and maintenance of the position assumed by
this answer.
JOHN C.

WATROUS.

And after due deliberation thereupon, had, it appearing to the
court that it was the duty of the judge, in allowing the appeal,
to take security on the appeal in the sum decreed, and not having done so, that the appellant was not entitled to a supersedeas
of any process necessary to carry the decree into execution, and
that the judge was bound to issue the proper process on the
application of the complainant. It is therefore now here directed
and ordered by this court, that a mandamus be awarded to the
district judge of the United States for the district of Texas,
requiring and commanding the said judge forthwith to carry
the aforesaid decree of the said district court of the 25th of
February, A. D. 1854, into effect.
After- Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the district of
Texas, and it appearing to the court here that a stipulation by
the counsel of the respective parties to dismiss this appeal at
the costs of the appellants, has been filed in this cause. It is
thereupon, on the motion of Mr. Coxe, of counsel for the appellee, now here ordered and decreed by this court that this appeal
be and the same is hereby dismissed, with costs.

