OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

BLACKFEATHER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 276. Argued May 1, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

The moral obligations of the government towards the Indians are for Congress alone to recognize, and the courts can exercise only such jurisdiction over the subject as Congress may confer upon them.

Under the act of October 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 636, jurisdiction was conferred
upon the Court of Claims to hear and determine the rights in law or
equity of the tribes of the Shawnee and Delaware Indians arising out
of the subject matter referred to in the act, and there is no grant of
jurisdiction to hear or determine the rights of individual members of

those tribes. The claims of the Shawnee Indians which under the act
of July 1, 1892, were to be presented to the Court of Claims are those
of a tribe or band of Indians and not of individual members thereof.
Statutes which extend the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims and permit
the government to be sued will be strictly construed, and the grant of
jurisdiction therein contained must be shown clearly to cover the case
and if it do not it will not be implied.

THE petitioner filed his amended petition in the Court of
Claims in August, 1892, in which he asked to recover from the
United States over five hundred and thirty thousand dollars on
the grounds therein set forth. There was a demurrer to the
amended petition by the United States on the ground that it
did not allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
The demurrer was sustained, 37 C. C1. 233, and the plaintiff has
appealed to this court.
In his petition the petitioner represents himself as a Shawnee
Indian by blood and descent, amember and the principal chief
of the Shawnee Tribe or Nation, and residing in the Indian
Territory. ie states that he brings suit in the Court of Claims
as such principal chief of such Shawnee Tribe or Nation under
the provisions of two acts of Congress, the first of which is entitled "An act to refer to the Court of Claims certain claims
of the Shawnee and Delaware Indians and the freedmen of the
Cherokee Nation, and for other purposes," approved October 1,
1890, 26 Stat. 636, and the second entitled, "An act supple-

BLACKFEATHER v. UNITED STATES.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

mentary and amendatory to an act entitled ' An act to refer to
the Court of Claims certain claims of the Shawnee and Delaware Indians and the freedmen of the Cherokee Nation, and
for other purposes,' approved October first, eighteen hundred
and ninety," approved July 6, 1892. 27 Stat. 86. These acts
are set out in the margin.'
I Act of 1890. 26 Stat. 636.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That full jurisdiction is hereby
conferred upon the Court of Claims, subject to an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the United States as in other cases, to hear and determine what
are the just rights in law or in equity of the Shawnee and Delaware Indians,
who are settled and incorporated into the Cherokee Nation, Indian Territory, east of ninety-six degrees west longitude, under the provisions of article fifteen of the treaty of July nineteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-six,
made by and between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, and articles of agreement made by and between the Cherokee Nation and the
Shawnee Indians, June seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-nine, approved
by the President June ninth, eighteen hundred and sixty-nine, and articles
of agreement made with the Delaware Indians April eighth, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven; and also of the Cherokee freedmen, who are settled
and located in the Cherokee Nation under the provisions and stipulations
of article nine of the aforesaid treaty of eighteen hundred and sixty-six in
respect to the subject matter herein provided for.
SEC. 2. That the said Shawnees, Delawares, and freedmen shall have a
right, either separately or jointly, to begin and prosecute a suit or suits
against the Cherokee Nation and the United States Government to recover
from the Cherokee Nation all moneys due either in law or equity and unpaid to the said Shawnees, Delawares, or freedmen, which the Cherokee
Nation have before paid out, or may hereafter pay, per capita, in the Cherokee Nation, and which was, or may be, refused to or neglected to be paid
to the said Shawnees, Delawares, or freedmen by the Cherokee Nation out
of any money or funds which have, or may be, paid into the treasury of,
or in any way have come, or may come, into the possession of the Cherokee
Nation, Indian Territory, derived from the sale, leasing, or rent forgrazing
purposes on Cherokee lands west of ninety-six degrees west longitude, and
which have been, or may be, appropriated and directed to be'paid out per
capita by the acts passed by the Cherokee council, and for all moneys, lands,
and rights which shall appear to be due to the said Shawnees, Delawares,
or freedmen under the provisions of the aforesaid articles of treaty and
articles of agreement.
SEc. 3. That the said suit or suits may be brought in the name of the
principal chief or chiefs of the said Shawnee and Delaware Indians, and for
the freedmen and in their behalf and for their use in the name of some perVOL. oxc--24

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

The petitioner asks to recover and collect from the United
States the several amounts of money thereafter set out at length
in payment for the destruction, loss, forcible taking, carrying
and driving away live stock, farm products, household goods,
money and other personal property of divers descriptions and
kinds belonging to, owned and possessed by and the property
of the said Shawnee Indians, by white and United States citizens and soldiers, in the State of Kansas and the Indian Territory, at divers times and places in the year 1861, and all the
time up to and including the year 1866. Reference is then
made to a schedule which is made part of the petition, and in
which appear the names of between three and four hundred
Indians, and the schedule gives their individual claims, varying
in amounts from as high as $7000 down to $75, and aggregating $530,945.14.
It is contended that the claims arise out of treaty relations
with the United States, (mentioned in the foregoing acts of Conson as their trustee, to be selected by them with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior. And the exercise of such jurisdiction shall not be
barred by any lapse of time heretofore, nor shall the rights of such Indians
be impaired by any acts passed and approved by the Cherokee national
council. Suits may be instituted within twelve months after the passage
of this act, and the law and practice and rules of procedure in such courts
shall be the practice and law in these cases; and copies of the petitions filed
in the case at the commencement of the suit shall be served upon the Attorney General of the United States and on the principal chief in the Cherokee
Nation by the marshal of the District Court for the Indian Territory; and
that the costs of the said suits shall be apportioned between the United
States and the other parties to such suits as to said court law and equity
shall require. The Attorney General shall designate and appoint from the
Department of Justice a person who is competent to defend the said Cherokee Nation and the United States. And the said Shawnees, Delawares,
and freedmen may be represented by attorneys and counsel. And the court
is hereby authorized to decree the amount of compensation of such attorneys and counsel fees, not to exceed ten per centum of the amount recovered, and order the same to be paid to the attorneys and counsel of the
said Shawnees, Delawares, and freedmen; and all judgments for any sum
or sums of moneys which may be ordered or decreed by such court in favor
of the Shawnees, Delawares, or freedmen, and againstthe Cherokee Nation,
shall be enforced by the said court or courts against the said Cherokee Nation by execution mandamus, or in any other way which the said court may
see fit.

BLACKFEATHER v. UNITED STATES.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

gress,) particularly articles 11 and 14 of the treaty of May 10,
1854, 10 Stat. 1053, 1057, between the United States and the
Indians, and also out of sections 2154 and 2155 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States. The articles of the treaty are
as follows:
"AnTiCLE 11. It being represented that many of the Shawnees have sustained damage in the loss and destruction of their
crops, stock, and other property, and otherwise, by reason of
the great emigration which has, for several years, passed
through their country, and of other causes, in violation, as they
allege, of guaranties made for their protection by the United
States; it is agreed that there shall be paid, in consideration
thereof, to the Shawnees, the sum of twenty-seven thousand dollars, which shall be taken and considered in full satisfaction, riot
only of such claim, but of all others of what kind soever, and
in release of all demands and stipulations arising under former
treaties, with the exception of the perpetual annuities, amounting to three thousand dollars, hereinbefore named, and which
Sxc. 4. That the said Shawnee Indians are hereby authorized and empowered to bring and begin a suit in law or equity against the United States
Government, in the Court of Claims, to recover and collect from the United
States Government any amount of money that in law or equity is due
from the United States to said tribes in reimbursement of their tribal fund
for money wrongfully diverted therefrom. The right to appeal, jurisdiction
of the court, process, procedure, and proceedings in the suit here provided
for shall be as provided for in sections one, two, and three of this act.
Act of 1892. 27 Stat. 86.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Shawnee tribe or band
of Indians, whose claims and demands against the Cherokee Nation and
the United States were referred to the United States Court of Claims for
adjudication under the act of Congress passed and approved October first,
eighteen hundred and ninety, entitled "An act to refer to the Court of
Claims certain claims of the Shawnee and Delaware Indians and the freedmen of the Cherokee Nation, and for other purposes," shall present to the
said court all their claims against the United States and the Cherokee Nation, or against either or both of them, of every description whatsoever,
arising out of treaty relations with the United States, rights growing out
of such treaties, and from contracts, expressed or implied, under such
treaties, made and entered into by and between the said Shawnees and
Cherokees, and between them, or either of them and the United States.

OCTOBER 'l'ERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

are set apart and appropriated in the third article hereof. All
Shawnees who have sustained damage by the emigration of citizens of the United States, or by other acts of such citizens,
shall, within six months after the ratification of this treaty, file
their claims for such damages, with the Shawnee agent, to be
submitted by him to the Shawnee council for their action and
decision, and the amount, in each case, approved, shall be paid
by the said agent: Provided,The whole amount of claims thus
approved, shall not exceed the said sum stipulated for in this
article: Andprovided, That if such amount shall exceed the
sum, then a reduction shall be made, pro rata,from each claim,
until the aggregate is lowered to that amount. If less than that
amount be adjudged to be due, the residue, it is agreed, shall
be appropriated as the council shall direct."
"ATrICLE 14. The Shawnees acknowledge their dependence
on the Government of the United States, and invoke its protection and care. They will abstain from the commission of
depredations, and comply, as far as they are able, with the laws
in such cases made and provided, as they will expect to be protected, and to have their rights vindicated."
Section 2154 of the Revised Statutes, which is part of the act
of June 30, 1834, 4 Stat. 731, reads as follows:
" SE. 2154. Whenever, in the commission, by a white person, of any crime, offence, or misdemeanor, within the Indian
country, the property of any friendly Indian is taken, injured,
or destroyed, and a conviction is had for such crime, offence, or
misdemeanor, the person so convicted shall be sentenced to pay
to such friendly Indian to whom the property may belong, or
whose person may be injured, a sum equal to twice the just
value of the property so taken, injured, or destroyed."
Section 2155 of the Revised Statutes, which is also part of
the act of June 30, 1834, 4 Stat. 731, reads as follows:
"SEC. 2155. If such offender shall be unable to pay a sum at
least equal to the just value or amount, whatever such payments
shall fall short of the same shall be paid out of the Treasury of
the United States. If such offender cannot be apprehended
and brought to trial, the amount of such property shall be paid
out of the Treasury. But no Indian shall be entitled to any

I BLACKFEATHER v. UNITED STATES.
100 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

payment out of the Treasury of the United States, for any
such property, if he, or any of the nation to which he belongs,
have sought private revenge, or have attempted to obtain satisfaction by any force or violence."
It is also stated that at the time the property was taken the
Indians were in amity with and had always been loyal to the
United States. Judgment was asked in favor of the Indians
mentioned for the respective sums set opposite their names, and
that ten per centum of the amount might be allowed the attorneys for their services.
.M'. John C. Chaney and Xi%Alphonso H1art for appellant.
Mfr. Assistant Attorney GeneralPradtand Xirb. Special Atto'ney Button for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE PEKHAm, after making the foregoing statement
of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The duty of this court is simply to construe the acts of Congress of 1890 and 1892. The Court of Claims has no jurisdiction of the subject matter of this petition, unless it is conferred
by one or the other of the above acts. The moral obligations
of the Government toward the Indians, whatever they may be,
are for Congress alone to recognize, and the courts can exercise
only such jurisdiction over the subject as Congress may confer
upon them.
Upon examination of the act of 1890, it appears that jurisdiction is conferred upon the Court of Claims to hear and determine what are the just rights in law or in equity of the Shawnee
and Delaware Indians, who are settled and incorporated into
the Cherokee Nation, under the provisions of article 15 of the
treaty of 1866, between the United States and the Cherokee
Nation, and also under articles of agreement between the Chero1869, and
kee Nation and the Shawnee Indians, made June 71,
April 8,
the
Delaware
Indians,
made
with
articles of agreement
settled,
etc.,
under
1867, and also of 'the Cherokee freedmen
provisions of article 9 of the treaty of 1866.

OCTOBER TE RM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

The language of the first section, in our opinion, confers
jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims to hear and determine
the rights in law or equity of the tribes of the Shawnee or Delaware Indians, arising out of the subject matter provided for
in the subsequent parts of the act, and there is no grant of jurisdiction to hear or determine the rights of individual members
of those tribes. It is true the statute speaks of the Shawnee
and Delaware Indians, but the words Shawnee and Delaware
Indians mean the tribes and not individual members of those
tribes of Indians. The rights must be those which arise out of
the subject matter which is referred to in sections 2, 3 and 4 of
the act. This is stated in terms in the first section. The subsequent sections of the act show, as we think, that Indian tribes
and not individual members thereof are intended. And no
jurisdiction is granted to hear claims such as are included
in this case, whether they are made by tribes or by individual
members of a tribe.
The second section permits a suit against the Cherokee Nation
and the United States Government to recover from the Cherokee Nation moneys due and unpaid to the Shawnees, etc., which
the Cherokee Nation have before paid out, or may hereafter pay
per capita in the Cherokee Nation and which the Cherokee Nation had refused or neglected to pay to the other Indians. The
suits are in reality against the Cherokee Nation, and the recovery is from that nation. The separate or joint suit mentioned in this section is a separate or joint suit of the tribes and
of the freedmen, and not of the individual members thereof.
In either event it does not include such a case as this.
Section 3 permits the bringing of "the said suit or suits" in
the name of the principal chief or chiefs of the said Shawnee
and Delaware Indians, and for the freedmen in their behalf

and for their use, in the name of some person as their trustee,
to be selected by them with the approval of the Secretary of
the Interior. The exercise of this jurisdiction is not to be
barred by any lapse of time heretofore, nor are the rights
of the Indians to be impaired by any acts passed and approved
by the Cherokee National Council. The ight given by the
third section is to commence a suit or suits which had already

BLACKFEATHER v. UNITED STATES.
190 U. S.

375

Opinion of the Court.

been spoken of in the second section of the act. The second
section gave no right to commence this suit, as we have seen.
Neither section includes the rights of individual Indians.
A perusal of section 4 shows that the right to bring a suit
against the United States, therein provided for, was limited
to the purpose of collecting from the United States Government any amount of money that in law or equity may be
due from the United States "to said tribes in reimbursement
for their tribal fund for money wrongfully diverted therefrom." We think that individual Indians had no right to
commence such an action as this under the act of 1890, even
though it be assumed that the tribe bad such right under that
act for the recovery of the value of property taken from the
tribe. Such a suit, as the one before us, is plainly not included
in the grant of jurisdiction in this section.
By the act of 1892, it is provided that "the Shawnee tribe
or band of Indians, whose claims and demands against the
Cherokee Nation and the United States were referred to the
United States Court of Claims for adjudication," (under the act
of 1890,) "shall present to the said court all their claims against
the United States and the Cherokee Nation," etc.
The result is that this act does not grant jurisdiction to the
Court of Claims to hear and decide the questions arising under
this petition. The grant of jurisdiction is to hear and determine all the claims of the Shawnee tribe or band of Indians.
The claims are those of a tribe or band, and not those of the
individual members of Shawnee tribe or band. The reference
in the act of 1892,shows that Congress assumed that whatever
their nature, it was the claims of the Shawnee tribe or band that
had been referred to the Court of Claims for adjudication by the
act of 1890, and not claims of the individual members thereof.
The act of 1892 enlarges the scope of the act of 1890 so as to include all claims of the tribe or band, instead of claims of the
nature provided for in sections 2, 3 and 4 of the act of 1890,
but the claims must be claims of a band and not of an individual.
These acts have been before this court on a previous occasion.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

In United States v. Blaokfeather, 155 U. S. 180, 194, Mr.
Justice Brown, speaking for the court, said:
"While there may be a moral obligation on the part of the.
Government to reimburse the money embezzled by the Indian
superintendent, and in fact an appropriation appears to have
been made for that purpose, act of July '7, 1884, c. 334, 23 Stat.
236, 247, it is by no means clear that, under the acts of 1890
and 1892, the Shawnees were authorized to recover and collect
from the Government any other moneys than those which they
claimed in their tribal relation or capacity. The money in
question is not due the tribe as such, but to certain individual orphans, who claim to have been defrauded. But whether this
be so or not, there is nothing in the record to indicate how
much of this money was embezzled by the guardians created by
the Indian council, and how much by the Indian superintendent, so that there is in reality no basis for a decree in their
favor."
While the question in issue here was, as is seen, not decided
in the above case, yet the expression contained in the opinion
shows the court was not prepared to hold that the acts embraced claims of individual Indians.
As these statutes extend the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims and permit the Government to be sued for causes of action therein referred to, the grant of jurisdiction must be shown
clearly to cover the case before us, and if it do not, it will not
be implied. Statutes of this nature extending the right to sue
the Government will generally be strictly construed. We concur with the following remarks of Judge Weldon, contained in
the opinion delivered by him in this case in the Court of Claims:
"The act of 1892, seems to have been enacted for the purpose of enlarging the scope of the right given under the act of
1890. But is it sufficiently broad to embrace the individual
right of each Indian who may have suffered a depredation at
the hands of the persons alleged?
"The statute (1890) is entitled ' An act to refer to the Court
of Claims certain claims of the Shawnee and Delaware Indians
and the freedmen of the Cherokee Nation, and for other purposes,' and provides, in substance, that they shall present to the

BLACKFEXTHER
190 U. S.

:v.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

said court all their claims against the United States and the
Cherokee Nation, or against either or both of them, of any
description whatsoever arising out of treaty relations with the
United States, rights growing out of such treaties, and from
contracts, express or implied, under such treaties made and entered into by and between the said Shawnees and Cherokees,
and between them, or either of them, and the United States.
"The right to sae, by the phraseology of this statute, is in
the assertion of rights growing out of treaties, and for contracts, express or implied, under treaties made and entered into
by and between the said Shawnees, Cherokees, and the United
States. Can it be said that there has been a treaty, a contract,
express or implied, b.etween the United States and the individual Indians, who, though the medium of the principal chief,
are now prosecuting these claims?
"The attention of the court is called to the fourteenth article, (of the treaty of 1854,) which provides that I The Shawnees acknowledge their dependence on the Government of the
United States, and invoke its protection and care. They will
abstain from the commission of depredations, and comply, as
far as they are able, with the laws in such cases made and
provided, as they will expect to be protected and to have
their rights vindicated.' Does this phraseology establish contractual or treaty relations, having the effect of contracts, with
each individual Indian composing the Shawnee tribe? Or,
rather, is it not a general clause, limited in its effect to the
parties to the treaty, to wit, the United States on one side and
the Shawnee tribe upon the other?
"The plaintiff, by the allegations of the petition, has asserted
an individual obligation existing between the United States
and each of the claimants, and in order to recover it must
appear that such a relation exists.
"The United States, as the guardian of the Indians, deal
with the nation, tribe, or band, and have never, so far as is
known to the court, entered into contracts, either express or
implied, compacts, or treaties with individual Indians so as to
embrace within the purview of such contract or undertaking
the personal rights of individual Indians.

OCTOIDER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

"The acts of Congress referred to by the allegations of the
petition and the argument of counsel for the claimant, are not
applicable to the claim made by this petition. The condition
upon which remuneration to the Indian is to be made under
section 2154, Revised Statutes, is not shown to exist in this case.
And so it may be said of section 2155 of Revised Statutes, that
the condition upon which the Indian is entitled to remuneration
out of the Treasury is not shown to exist in the claims made in
this proceeding.
"The act of 1892 specifies that the Shawnee tribe or band
of Indians, whose claims and demands against the Cherokee
Nation and the United States were referred to the United States
Court of Claims for adjudication under the act of Congress
passed and approved October 1, 1890, shall present to said
court all their claims against the United States. The claims
referred to this court under the act of 1890 were the claims of
the Shawnee tribe or band of Indians, and not the personal
claims of the individual Indians belonging to said tribe or band
of Shawnees.
"The evident object of the act of 1892 was to enlarge the
jurisdiction of this court with reference to the same class of
claims as were cognizable under the act of 1890, to wit, the
claims of the Shawnee tribe or band of Indians."
We think it clear that no jurisdiction over this case is granted
by the language of the sections of the Revised Statutes above
referred to.
We see nothing in the act, approved May 9, 1860, 12 Stat.
15, appropriating moneys "for the payment of claims of certain members of the Shawnee tribe of Indians," which affects
the con'clusion we have reached that the acts of 1890 and 1892
refer to tribes and not individuals. The act of 1860 appropriates, in terms, money to pay claims of certain members of
the tribe. It is apparent that when Congress intends to include individuals as distinct from tribes, it does not speak of
them as Shawnee Indians, but as "certain members" of the
Shawnee tribe.
Congress may, of course, at its pleasure, still confer jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims in such terms as shall, without

UNITED STATES v. MICHIGAN.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

doubt, cover claims of the nature set forth in this record. In
our judgment it has not done so as yet. The judgment of the
Court of Claims must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MICHIGAN.
'ORIGINAL.
No. 11.

IN

EQuITY.

Argued April 20, 21, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

The effect of the legislation of Congress granting a right of way through a
military reservation and 750,000 acres of public lands to be sold by the
State of Michigan and the proceeds applied, under the conditions prescribed, to the construction of the St. Mary's River canal, and of the legislation of the State of Michigan in regard to the construction, maintenance and surrender of the canal to the United States, as the same are
set forth in the complaint, was to create a trust, of which the State of
Michigan was the trustee, to construct and maintain the canal as a work
of national importance, and the State of Michigan acquired no individual
beneficial intezest therein. When the canal was surrendered to the
United States by the State the Federal Government was entitled to whatever surplus remained in the bands of the State from the tolls collected
over and above the expenses of maintenance and also to the value of the
tools and materials connected with the canal at the time of the surrender.

THE United States, by leave of court, duly filed in this court
its original bill in equity against the State of Michigan, to
which bill the defendant has filed a demurrer substantially for
want of equity, and also because it appears therefrom that the
complainant has been guilty of gross laches in regard to the
matters therein set forth. It will be most convenient to set
forth the bill with the exception of some portions thereof which
do not seem to be material, and it is as follows:
"To tie Chief Jutstice and the Associate Justicesof the Sujreme
Court of the Uiqated States, in equity :
"Philander C. Knox, Attorney General of the United States
of America, for and in behalf of said United States, brings this

