STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Syllabus.

to the said Mathieson Alkali Works and to the plaintiffs all loss
and damage caused by their wrongful conduct in the premises
as hereinabove set forth."
If it be conceded that in a suit which seeks such relief the
Mathieson Company is a necessary party, it is certain the Castner party is not. Besides the relief is distinct from-separable
from, to keep to the language of the cases-that which is sought
as a result of the grounds of suit against the companies.
It follows from these views that the bill exhibits a controversy
between the plaintiffs and the defendant companies, to which
the individual defendants are not necessary parties, and the case
was rightfully removed to the Circuit Court.
The order of the latter court setting aside the the service of
summons on the Mathieson Company, and dismissing the bill

for want of jurisdiction of that company, is
Aflrmd_

STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 264. Argued April 27, 28,1903.-Decided

June 1, 1903.

While as a general rule Federal courts will accept the interpretation put by
the courts of a State upon its own constitution and statutes, yet where the
law has not been definitely settled, it is the right and duty of Federal
courts to exercise their own judgment.
A presumption that the duty devolving upon the officers of a county of ascertaining the conditions upon which bonds of the county may be issued
was properly exercised should and does accompany and guarantee such
bonds.
County bonds issued under statutes and sections of the Code of North Carolina which permit bonds to be issued to enable counties to subscribe to
stock when necessary to aid in the completion of any railroad in which
citizens of the county may have an interest, held to be valid notwithstanding that the Supreme Court of the State had decided in another action
that such bonds were invalid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

Tnis suit was brought in the United States Circuit Court for
the Western District of North Carolina, by the respondents
against the petitioner, to recover on certain coupons attached
to bonds, alleged to have been issued by Stanly County, State
of North Carolina, in part payment of the subscription of said
county to the capital stock of the Yadkin Valley Railroad Company. The bill alleged the following facts:
The Yadkin Valley Railroad Company was organized as a
corporation under the laws of North Carolina, to construct and
operate a railroad running from Salisbury in that State, south
to Norwood, a point in Stanly County.
The incorporation of the said company was under and by
virtue of chapter 236 of the Acts of 1870', passed by the legislature for that year; and the said chapter was amended by an
act of the legislature, chapter 183 of the Acts of 1887.
The county, being desirous of aiding in the construction of
said road, and acting through its proper authorities, subscribed
the amount of $100,000 to the capital stock of the company, in
pursuance of the authority and power conferred upon the said
county under and by virtue of the acts of the legislature of
North Carolina as above set out; and, also, under and by virtue
of sections 1996,1997, 1998 and 1999 of the Code of North Carolina, all of the said acts and sections of the Code of North Carolina having been enacted and become laws in accordance with
the constitution of the State.
The county still holds the stock and derives benefit from the
road in increased facilities for transportation, greatly increased
value of the lands of the county and from the taxes paid thereon.
A copy of the bonds was attached to the bill, and is inserted in
the margin.1
1EXHIBIT A.
(Copy.)
County of Stanly Six per Cent Bond.
Stanly County, State of North Carolina, is indebted to the bearer in the
sum of five hundred dollars, lawful money of the United States, payable
on the first day of July, A. D. one thousand nine hundred and twenty, with
interest thereon from the first day of July, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and ninety, at the rate of six per cent per annum, payable on the first

STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The bonds were exposed for sale and the respondents became
purchasers of them in good faith, and at the highest market
price, and without any notice, express or implied, that there
was any suggestion of their being void, invalid, fraudulent or
otherwise than perfectly legal in their issue and sale.
Interest on the bonds issued as the same has become due has
not been paid for the last four years. The coupons due and
the amounts thereof are as follows:
48 Stanly County coupons, Nos. 2, 46, 48, 49 and
72, $60.00 each

.

$2880 00

33 Stanly County coupons, Nos. 81, 92, 95, 96,
98, 108, 110, 112, 116, 118, 120, all numbers inclusive, $30.00
Making the sum of

.

990 00
$3870 00

day of July in each year at the First National Bank of Salisbury, North
Carolina, on presentation and surrender of the respective coupons hereto
attached, as they severally become due and payable. This bond is one of
a series of eighty of the denomination of one thousand dollars each, and
forty of the denomination of five hundred, making a total of one hundred
thousand dollars, issued by authority of an act of the general assembly of
North Carolina, ratified the third day of March, A. D. 1887, entitled "An
act to' amend the charter of the Yadkin Railroad Company," and of sections 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999 of the Code of North Carolina, and authorized by a majority vote of the qualified voters of Stanly County, at an election regularly held for that purpose on the 15th day of August, A. D. 1889,
duly ordered by the board of commissioners of Stanly County.
This series of bonds is issued to pay the subscription of one hundred
thousand dollars made by Stanly County to the capital stock of the said
railroad, known as "The Yadkin Railroad Company." Stanly County reserves the privilege of paying the principal and interest of any or all of
this series of bonds at any time after the expiration of ten years, upon the
board of commissioners of said county first giving three months' notice of
such payment in some newspaper published in said county, when such
bonds shall be paid, according to number, beginning with number one.
In testimony whereof, the chairman of the board of county commissioners of Stanly County hath hereunto subscribed his name, for and on
behalf of said board, and the clerk of the Superior Court of Stanly County
hath countersigned the same and affixed thereto the seal of said Superior
Court, this first day of July, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and ninety.
.Chairman.
Clerk of Superior Court.
Countersigned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

The payment of said sums was demanded at the proper time
and refused, although the said total sum had been collected
from the tax payers of the county by the board of commissioners, in pursuance of the power conferred upon them, and
was in the hands of I. W. Snuggs, (one of the petitioners here,)
as treasurer of the county, and he having received the same
for the payment of said interest, became and is the trustee and
agent of the bond and coupon holders, and therefore holds the
same "for the use and in trust for complainants." The complainants are informed and believe that the reason why said
treasurer has not accounted to them is that he has been restrained by a certain process of injunction, issued by one of the
Superior Courts of the State of North Carolina in a suit brought
in the name of the board of commissioners, and in the names
of James P. Nash and G. R. MvcCain as plaintiffs, and against
the said I. W. Snuggs as defendant, but that complainants were
not made parties to the same, nor was any other bondholder.
The treasurer and board of commissioners unless restrained will
dispose of the fund collected as aforesaid. An injunction was
prayed, and the statement of an account, and the appointment
of a receiver asked.
The answer attacked the validity of the bonds, and averred
that their invalidity was adjudged by the Supreme Court of
the State in the case of Commissioners v. Snuggs, 121 N. C.
394, "and that there has been no other decision or judgment
given by said Supreme Court in conflict with the aforesaid decision; but that the said decision is uniform with the decision
of the same court, delivered in the case of Bank v. The Commissioners, 119 N. C. 214, which are the only two cases in
which the principle or validity of these bonds has ever been before the Supreme Court of the State." There were proper replications made to the answer. The case was submitted on the
pleadings and certain exhibits, some of them being the records
of the suits in the courts of North Carolina.
The grounds upon which the bonds are claimed to be invalid
are indicated in the opinion. A decree was entered declaring
and adjudging the bonds to be valid obligations of the county
of Stanly; that complainants (respondents here) in the suit

STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were bona fide purchasers and holders thereof; that I. W.
Snuggs was the trustee of the bondholders, and held the sum
of six thousand dollars as such trustee for the benefit of the
bondholders under and by virtue of the law and the orders of
the board of commissioners of the county, and for the sole purpose of paying off and discharging the interest due on the bonds
as set out in the bill. The decree also appointed a receiver for
said sum, and ordered that said I. W. Snuggs pay the same to
the receiver. It was further adjudged that the board of commissioners of Stanly County be enjoined from in any manner interfering with the execution and performance of the decree.
The decree was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals and
the cause was remanded "with directions to dissolve the injunction, discharge the receiver, and dismiss the bill." 37 C.
C. A. 484. A rehearing was granted, and the decree of the
Circuit Court was affirmed. 113 Fed. Rep. 705.
.r. James E. Shepherd and A&. A. C. Avery for petitioners.
Mi'. C. X. Busbee was on the brief.
.M'. John. F. Dillon for respondents. XP. BaryT Hubbard,
Xr. John lX. Dillon and Mr. Chiarles Price were on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE cKENNA, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
It will be observed that the bonds recited that they were
"issued by authority of an act of the general assembly of North
Carolina, ratified the third day of March, A. D. 1887, entitled
' An act to amend the charter of the Yadkin Railroad Company,'
and of sections 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999 of the code of North
Carolina, and authorized by the majority vote of the qualified
voters of Stanly County, at an election regularly held for that
purpose, on the 15th day of August, A. D. 1889, duly ordered
by the board of commissioners of Stanly County." The act of
March 3, 1887, referred to, was an amendment of the act by
which the Yadkin Railroad Company was incorporated, (1870
-'71,) and was declared by the Supreme Court of the State not

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

to have been passed in accordance with the constitutional provision, requiring the yeas and nays to be entered upon the
journals of each house of the general assembly. Bank v. Commissioners,119 N. C. 214; Commissioners v. Snuggs, 121 N. C.
394. The ruling was decided to be binding upon this court.
Vilkes County v. Coler, 180 U. S. 506 ; S. C., ante, p. 107.
The same objection does not lie to the sections of the code of
North Carolina recited in the bonds, and the controversy in the
pending case turns upon the meaning of those sections and the
effect of the recitals in the bonds.
Section 1996 provides as follows: "The boards of commissioners of the several counties shall have power to subscribe
stock to any railroad company or companies, when necessary
to aid in the completion of any railroad in which the citizens
of the county may have an interest." This section and the four
succeeding sections were the reproductions of a statute passed in
1868-'9, a few days more than a year after the constitution of
1868, and were passed upon and interpreted by the Supreme
Court of North Carolina in Commissioners v. Snuggs, supra.
The court said:
"It is most reasonable to conclude that the policy and purpose of both the constitutional provision and the statute (code
provisions) were the same, the only difference being that in case
of state aid no approval by vote of the people was required,
while a majority vote of the people was required in cases of
county aid. The object of the statute must have been to provide by a general act means by which counties, without special
legislation for each county by separate bills, might be enabled
to complete unfinished railroads in which the counties bad a
pecuniary interest. At the same time of the enactment of the
statute of 1868-'9 and always since that time any county of the
State duly observing the limitations of section 7 of article VII
of the constitution, and under an act passed according to the
requirements of section 14, article II of the constitution, could
and can subscribe to the capital stock of the railroad company
whether unfinished or to be begun. The act of 1868-'9, however, considering the condition of affairs then existing, that is,
that there were counties which had a pecuniary interest in rail-

-

STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

roads that had been begun but were unfinished, enabled such
counties to make subscriptions of bonds to complete such unfinished roads at the earliest moment and with the least cost,
by a general law passed according to section 14, article II, of
the constitution. This reasoning leads us to the still further
conclusion that, at the time when the act of 1868-'9 was brought
forward in the Code, section 1996, and the four succeeding sections, it could have had reference to no cases except those where
the counties had a pecuniary interest in unfinished 'railroads at
the adoption of the constitution of 1868, and that, therefore,
the code sections could not apply to the present case, because
the Yadkin Railroad was not begun to be constructed until
about 1889."
It will be observed, therefore, that the Supreme Court decides that the interest of the county must have beenpecuniay
and the railroad must have been begun at the adoption of the
constitution of 1868.
To this case the respondents oppose the contentions that its
interpretation of the constitution and code sections is (1) incorrect, and this involves the further contention that we may
exercise an independent judgment of them; (2) that the recitals
in the bonds were assurances to lonartde purchasers that the
conditions expressed had been fulfilled.' In other words, the
recitals were assurances that the county had a pecuniary interest (assuming such to be the interest meant) in the Yadkin
Railroad, and that thp road had been begun before the bonds
were issued-even begun before the adoption of the constitution of 1868. As far as the contention includes both dates, we
may immediately dispose of it. We cannot assent to the view
that purchasers of the bonds could have assumed that the railroad had been begun before the adoption of the constitution of
1868. The adoption of the constitution antedated the charter
of the company. It would therefore be extreme to hold that
purchasers of the bonds could have assumed that the railroad
had been begun before it was authorized to be built, or that a
different act of incorporation could have been assumed from
that which the bonds themselves indicated. Commercial securities must necessarily be fortified by many presumptions, as

OCTOBER TERM. 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

we shall hereafter have occasion to remark, but it would be
straining somewhat to hold that a purchaser of bonds issued
for a subscription to the capital stock of a railroad company
could assume that the company existed prior to the time stated
in the bonds or was incorporated by a different statute than
that mentioned. Pretermitting consideration of the other conditions for a time, we are brought to the contention of the
respondents, that we are not constrained to follow the opinion
of the Supreme Court of North Carolina.
The general rule undoubtedly is that we accept the interpretation put by the state courts upon the state constitutions and
statutes. There are exceptions to the rule, and the case at bar
presents one of them. The rule and its exceptions are stated
in Burgess v. Selignan, 107 U. S. 20, and the many cases by
which the rule was sustained are collected in a note on page
thirty of the opinion. In that case a statute of Missouri provided that the stockholders of a corporation at its dissolution
were liable for its debts. It also provided that no person
holding stock as executor, etc., or holding stock as collateral
security, should be personally liable, but the persons who
pledged the stock should be considered as holding the same,
and be liable. The Supreme Court of Missouri held that the
exemption of the statute did not extend to persons receiving
from the corporation itself stock as collateral security. This
court decided to the contrary, and held that it was not bound
to follow the decision of the Supreme Court of the State. The
question presented was regarded as one of commercial law
and geieral jurisprudence, and the right to exercise our own
judgment was asserted. It was said that state decisions were
to be followed when they had become a rule of property, and
that "this is especially true with regard to the law of real
estate and the construction of state constitutions and statutes.
Such established rules are always regarded by the Federal
courts, no less than by the state courts themselves, as authoritative declarations of what the law is. But where the law has
not been thus settled, it is the right and duty of the Federal
courts to exercise their own judgment; as they also always do
in reference to the doctrines of commercial law and general

STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisprudence. So when contracts and transactions have been
entered into, and rights have accrued thereon under a particular state of the decisions, or when there has been no decision
of the state tribunals, the Federal courts properly claim the
right to adopt their own interpretation of the law applicable to
the case, although a different interpretation may be. adopted
by the State courts after such rights have accrued."
Burgess v. Seligman was applied in Polsom v. _Ninety-Six,
159 U. S. 611, to sustain the validity of bonds issued by the
defendant township to aid in the construction of a railroad.
The power to issue them depended upon several statutes and
the constitution of the State. After the bonds were issued
the Supreme Court of the State decided that the statutes authorizing the issue of the bonds were unconstitutional. There
had been no decision to that effect prior to the issuing of the
bonds. We held that the decision of the Supreme Court was
not binding, and construed the constitution and statutes for
ourselves, and sustained the bonds.
It was, however, said in Burgess v. Seligman that even in cases
in which we may exercise an independent judgment, if the question seems "balanced with doubt," we will "lean towards an
agreement of views with the state courts." But we are unable
to yield that deference to the decision in Commissioners v.
Snggs, notwithstanding our respect for the learned tribunal
that delivered it. We are unable to construe the code sections
as having had "reference to no cases except those where the
counties had an interest in unfinished railroads at the adoption
of the constitution of 1868." The prohibition of the constitution was directed to the State; the power given by the code
sections was directed to counties. It is easy to conceive the
reasons which induced the different provisions. The State
might indeed not desire to extend its general aid beyond what
had been done or commenced. Local interest might be different, and the exact fulfillment of the conditions upon which
aid could be granted was assured and any abuse guarded
against, by requiring a vote of the people. Besides, there is no
reference in the code sections to the constitution of 1868, or
any retrospective implications in them. The language is that

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

which would naturally be employed to express a present and
continuing power, to be exercised as occasion should arise.
And the contemporaneous construction sustains this view.
There was a vote of the people of the county authorizing the
subscription, and not through all the publicity and discussion
of the canvass, not in the proceedings before the board of commissioners when the subscription was made, was there an intimation expressed, as far as the record shows, that the power
of the counties of the State was limited by and depended upon
what existed at the date of the constitution of 1868. And for
four years a tax was levied and interest paid on the bonds.
As we have seen, section 1996 confers power on the boards
of commisioners of counties "to subscribe stock to any railroad
company or companies, when necessary to aid in the completion
of any railroad in which the citizens of the county may have
an interest." These conditions, as we have also seen, were defined to mean, by the Supreme Court of the State, in Commissioners v. Snuggs, an interest of the county, as distinguished
from the interest of its citizens, and a pecuniary interest as distinguished from that which comes from the facilities afforded
by a railroad; and the completion of a railroad to signify one
begun, but not finished. These definitions may be disputed,
and are disputed.
A county is in many ways a distinct legal entity from its
citizens, but it is created for their benefit, and its duties and
powers are conferred to be exercised for their welfare. This
is true even of its ordinary and governmental functions; it is
especially true of the power to subscribe to the stock of a railroad company, and in conferring such power the predominant
thought would be, not the interests of the county as such, but
the interests of its citizens as such. And the language of the
Code of North Carolina conforms to and exactly expresses the
thought-accurately marks a distinction between the county
acting through its board of commissioners and the citizens of
the county, and provides that the interests of the latter shall
induce the exercise of the powers and duties of the former.
Such interests could not be pecuniary-could only be that which
qp.oes from the possession and advantages of railroads. And

STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.

190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the same consideration would seem to lead to a different definition of the word "completion" than that given by the Supreme
Court of North Carolina. Of course, there can be no completion of a thing which has not been begun, but it does not follow
that the legislature intended to express a distinction between
railroads which could receive, according to the degree of their
construction. The statute regards not actual construction but
aid to construction. Its purpose is the production of a resultthe building of railroads, and, it is manifest, that aid given before their commencement would be as efficient, and might be
more necessary, than that given after their commencement.
It is not easy to conceive what purpose would be subserved by
confining the aid to roads which have been begun; and there
would be certain embarrassment in deciding the degree to which
construction must be advanced. However, these are but passing observations. We may rest the validity of the bonds on
the right of a bona fide holder from their recitals to assume
that the county had the interest claimed and that the railroad
had been begun before subscription to its stock was made. It
makes no difference whether the existence or non-existence of
those conditions could have been ascertained by inquiry. Purchasers were not expected to be at or near the sources of information. The bonds were not offered in Stanly County only,
or in the State of North Carolina only. They were expected
to be offered in the financial markets of the other States of the
Union; even offered in the financial markets of the world.
They were payable to bearer. They were expected to have,
and their value, to an extent, depended upon their having almost the currency and sanction of money. If a buyer of bonds
is chargeable with knowledge not only of want of power to issue
them, (a considerable risk, as the records of the courts show,)
but also of thd non-performance of conditions inyais, their value
would be much diminished. And what good would such a holding subserve? The affairs of a county can only be administered
by its officers, and to their attention and duty its interests must
be entrusted. When the power to issue bonds, therefore, depends upon the existence of conditions, the local officers are
pharged with the duty and the responsibility of ascertaining

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

them, and the presumption that the duty was exercised should
and does accompany and guarantee the bonds in every financial
market. And this court has so decided. In Evansvillev. Denvelt, 161 U. S. 434, the bonds passed upon recited that they were
"issued by the city of Evansville in payment of a subscription
to the Evansville, Henderson and Nashville Railroad Company,
made in pursuance of an act of the legislature of the State of
Indiana and ordinances of the city council of said city, passed
in pursuance thereof." The bonds were dated May 1, 1858.
Other bonds were issued December 1, 1870, in payment of the
subscription of the city to the stock of the Evansville, Carmi
and Paduca Railroad Company. The recital in the latter bonds
was as follows:
"By virtue of an act of the general assembly of the State of
Indiana, entitled ' An act granting to the citizens of the town
of Evansville, in the county of Yanderburg, a city charter,'
approved January 27, 1847; and by virtue of an act of general
assembly of the State of Indiana, amendatory of said act, approved March 11, 1867, conferring upon the city council of said
city power to take stock in any company authorized for the
purpose of making a road of any kind leading to said city; and
by virtue of the resolution of said city council of said city, passed
October 4, 1869, ordering an election of the qualified voters of
said city upon the question of subscribing three hundred thousand dollars to the capital stock of the Evansville, Carmi and
Paducah Railroad Company, and said election, held on the 13th
day of November, 1868, resulting in a legal majority in favor
of such subscription, and by virtue of a resolution of said city
council, passed May 23, 1870, ordering an issue of the bonds of
the city of Evansville (of which this is a part) to an amount
not to exceed three hundred thousand dollars, bearing interest
at the rate of 7 per cent per annum, for the purpose of paying
the subscription as authorized above." The charter of Evansville authorized the city "to take stock in any chartered company
for making roads to said city. . . . Provided, That no
stock shall be subscribed or taken by the common council in
any such company, unless it be on the petition of two thirds of
the residents of said city, who are freeholders of the city, dis-

STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tinctly setting forth the company in which stock is to be taken,

and the number and amount of shares to-be subscribed."
The charter of Evansville was amended in 1865, but the amendment was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of
the State, and another act was passed in 1867. The latter act
authorized a subscription to the stock of the railroad company,
when a majority of the qualified voters of the city, who were
also taxpayers, should vote therefor. The ordinances of the
city recited that an election was held, but did not recite that a
petition of resident freeholders of the city was presented to the
common council as required by the charter, and no such petition was in fact presented. The case came to this court on certificate, and the following questions were propounded: Did the
recital in the first series of bonds put the purchaser upon inquiry as to the terms of ordinances under which the bonds were
issued? Did the recital in the second series of bonds, those
issued to the Evansville, Carmi and Paducah Railroad Company,
(1) put the purchaser upon inquiry as to the terms of the resolution under which they were purported to have been issued;
(2) estop the city from asserting that the bonds were not issued
for a stock subscription upon a petition as prescribed by the
charter; (3) "was a bonaftde purchaser for value of the bonds
issued to the Evansville, Carmi and Paducah Railroad Company
charged by the recitals in said bonds with notice that they were
issued in pursuance of an invalid act, and in pursuance of an
election under it, or had such a purchaser a right to assume,
from the recital, that the prerequisites of both the valid act and
the invalid act had been observed by the common council before
the issuance of such bonds ?"
Sustaining the validity of the first series of bonds, the court
said, by Mr. Justice Harlan, it could not be doubted that the
city had the power to subscribe to the stock upon the performance of the conditions expressed in the question propounded,
and further said they "were only conditions which the statute
required to be performed or met before the power given was
exercised. That there was legislative authority to subscribe to
the stock of these companies cannot be questioned, although
VOL. oxc-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

the statute declared that the power should not be exercised except under the circumstances stated in the statute."
And of the effect of the recital that the subscription was
"made in pursuance of an act of the legislature and ordinances
of the city council passed in pursuance thereof," it was observed: "This imports not only compliance with the act of the
legislature, but that the ordinances of the city council were in
conformity with the statute. It is as if the city had declared,
in terms, that all had been done that was required to be done
in order that the power given might be exercised."
Passing on the second series of bonds and expressing the
principle applicable, School -Districtv. Stone, 106 U. S. 183, was
quoted from as follows: "'Numerous cases have been determined in this court, in which we have said that where a statute
confers power upon a municipal corporation, upon the performance of certain precedent conditions, to execute bonds in aid
of the construction of a railroad, or for other like purposes,
and imposes upon certain officers-invested with authority to
determine whether such conditions have been performedthe responsibility of issuing them when such conditions have
been complied with, recitals, by such officers, that the bonds
have been issued "in pursuance of," or "in conformity with," or
"by virtue of," or "by authority of" the statute, have been held
in favor of bona fide purchasers for value to import full compliance with the statute, and to preclude inquiry as to whether the
precedent conditions had been performed before the bonds
were issued.' Town of Coloma v. -Eaves, 92 IT. S. 484; Commissioners v. Bolles, 94 U. S. 104; .lereer County v. Hacket, I
Wall. 83; Anderson County Commissioners v. Beal, 113 U. S.
227, 238-9, and authorities there cited; Cairov. Zane, 149 U. S.
122."
And again: "As therefore the recitals in the bonds import
compliance with the city's charter, purchasers for value having
no notice of the non-performance of the conditions precedent,
were not bound to go behind the statute conferring the
power to subscribe, and to ascertain, by an examination of the
ordinances and records of the city council, whether those conditions had, in fact, been performed. With such recitals before

STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

them they had the right to assume that the circumstances existed which authorized the city to exercise the authority given
by the legislature."
In Gunnison County Commissioners v. Rollins, 1'13 U. S.
255, the bonds passed on recited that all the requirements of
law had been fully complied with by the proper officers in the
issuing of the bonds. It was held that the county was estopped
from asserting, against a bona fide holder for value, that the
bonds so issued created an indebtedness in excess of the limit
prescribed by the constitution of Colorado. See also Waite v.
Santa Ciuz, 184: U. S. 302, where effect of recitals in bonds was
thoroughly considered and the doctrine of prior cases repeated
and affirmed.
The application of these cases to that at bar is denied by
petitioners. The argument is (to quote counsel):
"The preliminary question, whether the railroad was incomplete or the county had an interest, was not one as to which
the commissioners had peculiar knowledge, qualifying them to
answer. They had such knowledge as the whole public could
obtain-nothing more. It was incumbent on the respondents
to inquire about the fact, because the incompleteness or completeness, or the interest of the county, was a test of the existence of the power of the board, not a condition precedent to
the exercise of a power granted."
It is also said that counties having an interest were constituted a class, and only members of the class could have exercised the power conferred by the code sections. We think the
distinctions made are not substantial. No matter how you
may designate the interest of the county or the condition of
the railroad, they were facts which bore the same relation to
the power of the board of commissioners of Stanly County, as
the facts in the cited cases bore to the power of the officers the
exercise of which was sustained. It is indifferent whether you
call the facts which were to be ascertained tests of power or
conditions precedent or marks of a class. They were something which were to exist prior to the exercise of the power,
and the existence of which the law imposed on the board of
commissioners the duty to ascertain.
-Decree afflrmed.

