OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

190 U. S.

sustained either by reason or authority. I content myself with
merely stating this view, which involves the merits and do not
elaborate, because, in my opinion, if it be-as the court now
decides-that the question whether the title of. the United
States to the bed of Wolf Lake passed to the State of Illinois
is to be determined solely by the local law of Illinois, as construed by the courts of that State, I do not perceive how a
Federal question arises on this record, since I find it impossible to think that there can be a Federal question depending
exclusively for its solution upon non-Federal or state law.
I am authorized to say that MB. JUsTIcE MCKExNA concurs
in this dissent.

COLOMBIA v. CAUCA COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 259. Argued April 23, 24, 1903.-Decided May 18, 1903.

There is a distinction between foreign States and foreign citizens. Congress did not mean to exclude a sovereign power which sees fit to submit
its case to our courts from the right to appeal to the court of last resort.
Under section 6 of the act of 1891 the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is not made final where one of the parties is a foreign State.
Where the parties to a controversy lave submitted the matter to a commission of three who have the power to, and do resolve that all decisions
shall be by majority vote, an award by a majority is sufficient and effective.
In an arbitration between a sovereign State and a railroad company and
affecting public concerns, whatever might be the technical rules for arbitrators dealing with a private dispute, neither party can defeat the
operation of the submission after receiving benefits thereunder, by withdrawing, or by adopting the withdrawal of its nominee, after the discussions have been closed.
Where a foreign State grants a concession to build a railroad to an individual
who assigns it and other contracts connected therewith to a corporation
and thereafter the State forfeits and cancels the concession but agrees,
as a compromise, to take over the road as far as built and pay the actual expense of construction, it is proper in estimating such expenses to

COLOMBIA v. CAUCA CO.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

allow the office and traveling expenses and salaries of the officers, but
not the cash paid by the corporation for the contract and concession or
the amounts paid to the officers of the corporation for securing the
agreement to submit the matter to arbitration.

TnF case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Ar. WilHiam G. Johnson for appellant.
-Mr. John W. Beaumont and -Mr.John -Y Cowen for appellees.
.Xr. Edward IT.Au phy was on the brief.
MR. JusTi.E

HoL.Is delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by the Republic of Colombia from a decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, 113 Fed. Rep. 1020, affirming
a decree of the Circuit Court, 106 Fed. Rep. 337, upon a bill
brought by the Republic and a cross bill by the defendant, The
Cauca Company. The bill is a bill to set aside an award under
a submission entered into by the above-mentioned parties.
The cross bill is to establish the award as valid, notwithstanding the withdrawal of the representative named by the plaintiff,
and prays specific performance. The decree confirms the award
after rejecting certain items. Of course it does not attempt to
order specific performance.
Before going further with the statement of facts we must
dispose of an objection to the jurisdiction of this court to entertain this appeal. As a foreign government has seen fit to
submit its case to the courts of the country with whose citizens
its controversy exists, it would be unfortunate if through any
mistake it was prevented from carrying questions of law to
the court of last resort. We are of opinion that it had the right
to appeal. The Circuit Court had jurisdiction under the Constitution, article 3, section 2, and the act of August 13, 1888,
c. 866, ยง 1, 25 Stat. 434, as the suit is " a controversy between
citizens of a State and foreign States, citizens, or subjects,"
within the words and meaning of the act. The Sa2phire, 11
Wall. 164, 167. The right to appeal from the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is given by the act of March 3, 1891,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

c. 517, ยง 6, 26 Stat. 826, 828, "in all cases not hereinbefore, in
this section, made final." The only words of the section relied
upon as making the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
final are those which declare it so "in all cases where the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the
suit or controversy, being aliens and citizens of the United
States or citizens of different States." We see no reason to
doubt that Congress was as well aware of the distinction between foreign States and foreign citizens when it passed the
act of 1891 as when it passed the act of 1888, and that when it
spoke of aliens it meant foreign citizens alone. We are confident that it did not dream of excluding sovereign powers that
chose to sue here from the right to an appeal. The word aliens
could be given that effect only by straining it beyond its natural
meaning and away from the indications of the context. As
the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is not made final by
ยง 6, an appeal lies to this court.
Whether technically proved or not, we assume the commission
making the award to have found the facts hereafter stated, and
we think that they were fully warranted in doing so. The subject matter of the award was a railroad intended to run from
Buenaventura to the Pacific, via Cali, to the city of Manizales,
and partly built. In 1890 one Cherry received a concession to
build and operate this road, with land grants and various guaranties from the government, and with the right to transfer the concession, but all subject to the condition of the work being done in
four years. Thereupon the Cauca Company was incorporated in
West Virginia for the purpose, among other things, of building
and operating the road, and Cherry transferred his concession to
it, stipulating that he should be employed to do the work, receive
all the company's stock and bonds and various benefits of the
concession. On the same day the Colombian Construction and
Improvement Company also was incorporated, for many purposes, including that of building the road, and Cherry forthwith assigned to it his contract with the Cauca Company, stipulating that he should receive in return a large amount of full-paid
stock of the company and one hundred and thirty-five thousand
dollars in cash. Cherry was to be employed as chief constructor

COLOMBIA v. CAUCA CO.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the road, and the company was to take his place under the
Cauca Company's contract.
The time for building the road went by, the road was not
built, and the government claimed a forfeiture. On the other
hand, the Cauca Company set up that the failure was due to the
fault of the government, and other justifications, and the matter
became a subject of diplomatic discussion between this country
and Colombia. With the merits of this controversy we have nothing to do. As a result, a submission to a special commission, as it
was termed, was agreed upon and signed. The essential features
of the agreement were that the company by the second article
surrendered the railroad, and that Colombia agreed to pay a just
indemnity, the scope of which will be considered later, and which
was to be determined by the commission. The commission consisted of three-one appointed on behalf of Colombia, one on behalf of the company and the third by agreement between the
Secretary of State of this country and the Colombian Minister
at Washington. The commission, spoken of in the agreement
in the singular, was to "determine the procedure to be followed
in the exercise of the power conferred upon it, both as to its own
acts and as to the proceedings of the parties." In pursuance of
this power it resolved that all decisions should be by majority
vote. Thereafter the case was tried, and several items were allowed to the company which it was contended by the representatives of Colombia were not within the scope of the submission.
At the end of the trial, when hardly anything remained to be
done except to sign the award, the questions remaining open concerning only matters of interest which have been disallowed,
the Colombian commissioner announced his resignation to the
commission.
The agreement gave Colombia thirty days to appoint a new
member, and on its failure the Secretary of State for the
United States and the Colombian Minister were to appoint him.
But the commission was allowed only one hundred and fifty
days "from its installation," which might be extended sixty days
more for justifiable grounds. It had sat two hundred and three
days when the resignation was announced. Manifestly it was
possible, if not certain, that its only way of saving the proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

ings from coming to naught was to ignore the communication
and to proceed to the award. This it did. Colombia by its bill
and argument now lays hold of the resignation of its commissioner as a ground for declaring the award void.
Colombia thus is put in the position of seeking to defeat the
award after it has received the railroad in controversy and
while it is undisputed that an appreciable part of the consideration awarded ought to be paid to the company under the terms
of the submission. It is fair to add that the bill offers to pay the
undisputed sum, but not to rescind the submission and return
the railroad. We shall spend little argument upon this part of
the case. Of course, it was not expected that a commission made
up as this was would be unanimous. The commission was dealt
with as a unit, as a kind of court, in the submission. It was
constituted after, if not as the result of, diplomatic discussion
in pursuance of a public statute of Colombia. It was to decide between a sovereign State and a railroad, declared by a law
of Colombia to be a work of public utility. In short, it was dealing with matters of public concern. It had itself resolved, under the powers given to it in the agreement, that a majority
vote should govern. Obviously that was the only possible way,
as each party appointed a representative of its side. We are
satisfied that an award by a majority was sufficient and effective. We are satisfied, further, that whatever might be the technical rule for three arbitrators dealing with a private dispute,
neither party could defeat the operation of the submission, after receiving a large amount of property under it, by withdrawing or adopting the withdrawal of its nominee when the
discussions were closed. See Cooley v. O' Connor,12 Wall. 391,
398; Kingston v. Kincaid,1 Wash. C. C. 448 ; Exparte,Rogers,
'7 Cowen, 526; Carpenter v. Wood, 1 Met. 409 ;.Maynard v.
Frederick,7 Cush. 247 ; .Kncklev. Ktunckle, 1 Dall. 364; Cumnberland v. Vorth Yctarmouth, 4 Greenl. 459, 468 ; Grindley v.
Barker, 1 Bos. & P. 229, 236 ; Dalling v. 3zXattokett, Willes,
215, 217. In private matters the courts are open if arbitration fails, but in this case the alternative was a resort to diplomatic demand.
We pass now to the main and serious question of the case,

COLOMBIA v. CAUCA CO.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which is, whether the scope of the submission was exceeded by
any of the items of the award. The submission was in Spanish only, and there is a dispute about the translation of the
most important words. In exchange for the surrender of the
concession and the railroad with all of its fixed plant, rolling
stock, obras, etc., Colombia is to pay to the company "a just
indemnity por las obras y trabajos, (literally, the works and
labors,) which the company may have executed during the
time in which the undertaking has been in its charge, and for
the rolling stock," etc. So in the following article, "The Government of Colombia and the company recognize in advance as
just and sole indemnity a sum which shall equal that which the
company shall prove that it has expended en los trabajos y obras
ejecutados por ella en la construccion de la expressada via ferrea
y en los materiales rodantes, herramientas, etc., etc., introducidos
con destino a la misma via."
It is argued for Colombia that the untranslated words limit
the indemnity to the immediate cost on the ground of the works
and labors executed there. On the other side it is argued, especially in view of the previous dealings; that indemnity for the
total cost of the enterprise was intended. Our opinion falls between these two extremes. The company, to be sure, was claiming the larger amount, but Colombia had asserted a forfeiture.
The submission was a compromise, and presumably the company
meant the most and Colombia the least which the words used
were capable of meaning. The only fair way is to take the
language in its natural sense, not straining it either way. In
article 5 it is contemplated, as the means of reaching the indemnity mentioned, that the commission shall appraise obras
trabajos y materiales aforesaid ; that it shall examine the books
and accounts of the Cauca Company in New York, and that
it shall inspect on the ground los obras y trabajos of the railroad and the rolling stock. In article 10 it is said that Colombia
calculates approximately that the Cauca Company has disbursed
in the obra of the railroad a sum of two hundred thousand dollars, (somewhat less than the cost on the ground as agreed before the commission,) while the company considers that sum as
much below the just price of the obras y trabajos por ella ejecVOL. Cxc-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

utados. And the sum named is paid on account in advance for
the purpose of obtaining the immediate delivery of the railway.
Whether the preliminary negotiations be considered or not, it
seems to us to carry out the import of the words used if we
limit the indemnity to expenditures which fairly could be found
to have contributed in a direct way to the result on the surface
of the earth, but extend it to such expenditures, even when they
took place at a distance. If the latter were not included, there
was no sufficient reason for a commission meeting in New York.
It is for us to determine the scope of the commission, whatever may have been its own finding with regard to its powers.
But when its powers are established we are not called upon to
revise any finding that could have been made without going
beyond the line which we lay down. On this footing, subject
to a further point to be mentioned, the salaries of executive
officers of the Colombian Construction and Improvement Company ($108,181.42), the traveling expenses of these officers
($29,386.30), and the office expenses of the New York office
($21,727.58), properly were allowed, so far as appears. Although the facts were gone into with superfluous detail, it cannot be said as a matter of law that those items might not have
been necessary in order to lay the tracks upon the ground. The
company devoted itself wholly to the business of building the
road. The initial expense naturally would be the greatest, and
the company's contention was that but for Colombia the work
would have been done.
It is said that the last named company was not a party to
the submission, which is true. But, as we have said, it reasonably might have been found by the commission that it was
assignee of the contract between Cherry and the Cauca Company, by which Cherry was to build the road and to receive the
Cauca Company's stock and bonds. Therefore the work done
by the construction company had to be paid for by the Cauca
Company, and the result of its work was the railroad which
the company surrendered. Under such circumstances we can
listen to no hair splitting as to whether work done upon the
road by the construction company can be called the Cauca Company's "obras y trabajos." We certainly should not disturb a

COLOMBIA v. CAUCA CO.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

finding by the commission that the cost of building, by whomsoever incurred, was part of the Cauca Company's work.
On the other hand, we cannot uphold the award of $135,000,
for cash paid for purchase of the concession. If, as would seem,
this was the sum which the construction company was to pay
Cherry for the assignment of the Cauca Company contract, it requires a layman's superiority to form in the interest of substance
to connect this with the Cauca Company at all. But assuming
that connection established, the expense is too remote from cost
of construction to be allowed under the words used in this submission. It was contemplated by the concession that it might
come to the hands of a corporation having its headquarters
elsewhere, and the expenses which we have allowed might have
been found necessary, if a Virginia or New York corporation
were to begin the construction of this road in Colombia. But
the purchase of the right to do the job was an accident. The
cost of it would not have been incurred, so far as appears, if the
concession had been made to the company direct. Therefore
it is not to be paid for unless we adopt the view that the company is to be made whole for all that it paid in connection
with the enterprise, rather. than for what it paid to get the
tracks laid, assuming that it had the right to lay them. As we
have said, we adopt the latter view. We think it unlikely and
not within the clear meaning of the words that the government
undertook to pay an additional sum because its own concession
had changed hands.
It is much more obvious that the submission did not warrant
charging Colombia with an extra sum of $29,200, voted by the
construction company to its officers for services in securing the
agreement of submission. We have indicated our reasons sufficiently above.
The award was for a single sum, which the report of the proceedings of the commission shows to have been made up of items,
some of which we have considered. These items were discussed
by the courts below, seemingly at the instance of Colombia,
and without objection on the part of the company, and some
of them were disallowed without appeal. If they are open to
consideration they show that the award was made up of several

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

items, some of which may be disallowed without affecting the
rest. If they should not be considered, the only course would
seem to be to presume that the commission followed its authority, and to sustain the award for the whole original amount.
Certainly they could not be given a partial consideration and
be taken account of so far as to invalidate the award, and yet
be denied examination on thQ further question whether they
could not be stricken out without affecting the residue of the
award.
In addition to the oral arguments, we have considered every
detail of the elaborate briefs submitted and the record, but have
not thought it necessary to mention many of those details or
alto protract our judgment to an equal length. The amount
lowed by the Circuit Court of Appeals is reduced as stated by
$164,200, but in our opinion the following items must stand:
Agreed cost of work on the ground and rolling stock
$233,909 14
108,181 42
Salaries of executive officers
29,385 88
Traveling expenses of officers
21,727 58
Expenses and incidentals New York office
$393,204 02
200,000 00
Deduct paid on account
$193,204 02
Amount of award
Decree reversed and cause remanded to the Circuit Court with
directions to enter a decree confirming the awardfor and up
to the sum of $193,204.02.

