OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Syllabus.

190 U. S.

view in the appellate court of the State, and not by collateral
attack in the Federal court.
For these reasons we think the decision of the Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit was right, and it is
Affirmed.

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC TELEGRAPH COMPANY
v. PHILADELPHIA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF rENNSYLVANIA.
No. 163. Argued February 24, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

The following propositions as to the taxation by States and their municipalities of corporations engaged in carrying on interstate commerce have
been settled:
1. The Constitution of the United States having given to Congress the
power to regulate commerce, not only with foreign nations, but
among the several States, that power is necessarily exclusive whenever the subjects are national in their character, or admit only of
one uniform system or plan of regulation. Bobbins V. Shelby Taxing District,120 U. S. 489, 492.
2. No State can compel a party, individual or corporation, to pay for the
privilege of engaging in interstate commerce.
3. This immunity does not prevent a State from imposing ordinary property taxes upon property having a situs within its territory and employed in interstate commerce.
4. The franchise of a corporation, although that franchise is the business
of interstate commerce, is, as a part of its property, subject to
state taxation, providing at least the franchise is not derived from
the United States.
5. No corporation, even though engaged in interstate commerce, can appropriate to its own use property public or private, without liability to a charge therefor.
Where telegraph companies, engaged in interstate commerce, carry on their
business so as to justify police supervision, the municipality is not obliged
to furnish such supervision for nothing, but it may, in addition to ordinary property taxation, subject the corporations to reasonable charges
for the expense thereof.

ATLANTIC &c. TEL. CO. u. PHILADELPHIA.
190 U. S.

161

Opinion of the Court.

The reasonableness of such charges will depend upon all the circumstances
involved in the particular case, and, if in a case tried before a jury the
evidence in regard thereto is not such as to exclude every conclusion except one, the question of reasonableness should be submitted to the
jury.

THIS action was' commenced in the Common Pleas Court of
Philadelphia on December 31, 1891, to recover the sum of

$3715 as license fees alleged to be due the city for the six
preceding years. The case was removed by the defendant to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania. A trial was had before the court and a jury,
which resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff for
a part of the sum claimed, which judgment was thereafter
reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 102 Fed. Rep. 254.
A second trial was had in April, 1901, before the court and a
jury, which resulted in a verdict and judgment for the full
amount claimed with interest. From such judgment the case
was brought to this court directly on writ of error, on the
ground that it involved the construction and application of the
Constitution of the United States; that the action was brought
to recover from the telegraph company certain license charges
imposed by the city which the company claimed the city had
no right or power to impose, for the reason that it was a
regulation of commerce between the States.
Xr. John F. Dillon and .Mr. H. B. Gill for plaintiff in

error. .A'. Silas IF. Pettit, Mr. George H Fearons, fessrs.
Brown & Wells, .Mr. Bush Taggart and Mr. Henry D. Estabroo7e were on the brief.
Mr. John L.JEinsey for defendant in error. Mr. 7ames Alcorn was on the brief.
. R. JUSTICE l EWEn, after,ma'king the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented is as to the validity of the charges
imposed by the ordinances of the city of Philadelphia upon the
VOL. oxo-1l

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

defendant (plaintiff in error), a corporation engaged in interstate commerce. Few questions are more important or have
been more embarrassing than those arising from the efforts of
a State or its municipalities to increase their revenues by exactions from corporations engaged in carrying on interstate commerce. There have been many cases, in whose decision some
propositions have been adjudicated so often as to be no longer
open to discussion.
First. As said by Xr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the
court, in 2obbins v. Shelby Taxing District,120 U. S. 489, 492:

"The Constitution of the United States having given to
Congress the power to regulate commerce, not only with
foreign nations, but among the several States, that power is
necessarily exclusive whenever the subjects of it are national
in their character, or admit only of one uniform system, or
plan of regulation."
In addition to the many cases referred to by him the following subsequent decisions may also be cited : Fargo v. Michigan,
121 U. S. 230, 246; Philade phia Steamship Company v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, 336, 346; We stern Union, Telegraph
Company v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, 357; Bowman v. Chicago
&e. Railway Corapany, 125 U. S. 465, 497; Ieoup v. Port of

_Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, 648; Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129, 131;
Stoutenburgh v. Hlennic, 129 U. S. 141, 148 ; Lei6-y v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100, 110; lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; _McCall
v. California,136 U. S. 104, 109 ; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545,
555; Crutcer v. IZentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 58; Brennanv. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289, 304; Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 471; United States v. . C. Rnight
Co., 156 U. S. 1, 21; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania,171 U. S.
1; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211;
Stockard v. -Horgan,185 U. S. 27.

Second. No State can compel a party, individual or corporation to pay for the privilege of engaging in interstate commerce,
Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196, 211; Pickard v. Pullman Car Co., 117 U. S. 34; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District,120 U. S. 489 ; -Fargov. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230,
245 ; PhiladelphiaSteamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.

ATLANTIC &c. TEL. CO. v. PHILADELPHIA.
190 U. S.

163

Opinion of the Court.

326, 336; Leloup,v. Port of .7obile, 127 U. S. 640, 645 ; Asher
v. Texa, 128 U. S. 129 ; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161, 166 ;
3k Call v. California,136 U. S. 104, 115 ; Crutcher v. Kentucky,
141 U. S. 47, 58; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194,220.
Third. This immunity does not prevent a State from imposing ordinary property taxes upon property having a situs within
its territory and employed in interstate commerce. State Tax
on Railway ross Rece~pts, 15 Wall. 284, 293; The Delaware
Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 232; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105
U. S.460, 464; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S.
196, 211; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S.
530 ; Marye v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,127 U. S.117, 123 ;
Leloup v. Port of M}obile, 127 U. S. 640, 649; Pullman's Car
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Massachusettsv. lestern
Union Tel. Co., 141 U. S. 40; Pittsburgh &c. Railway Co. v.
Backus, 154 U. S.421; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Taggart,163
U. S.1 ; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S.194, 220.
Fourth. The franchise of a corporation, although that franchise is the business of interstate commerce, is, as a part of its
property, subject to state taxation, providing at least the franchise is not derived from the United States. Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 232; Postal Tel. Cable Comipany v.
Adams, 155 U. S. 688, 696; Erie Railroad v. Pennsylvania,
158 U. S.431,437; Central Pacilc Railroadv. California,162
U. S.91; Western Union Telegraph Company v. Taggart, 163
U. S.1, 18; Testern Union Telegraph Co. v. Missouri ex rel.
Gottleib, post, 163.
Fifth. No corporation, even though engaged in interstate
commerce, can appropriate to its own use property, public or
private, without liability to charge therefor. Packet Company
v. St. Louis, 100 U. S.423; Packet Company v. Catlettsburg,
105 U. S. 559; TransportationCompany v. Parkersburg,107 U.
S.691; Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S.543; Ouachita Packet Company v. Aiken, 121 U. S.444; St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Company. 148 U. S. 92; St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Company, 149 U. S.465; Postal Tel. Cable Company v.
Baltimore, 156 U. S. 210; Richmond v. Southern Bell Telephone Company, 174 U. S.761, 771,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

The tax sought to be collected in this case was not a tax upon
the property or franchises of the company, nor in the nature of
rental for occupying certain portions of the street. Neither was
it a charge for the privilege of engaging in the business of interstate commerce, but it was one for the enforcement of local governmental supervision, such as was presented in Western Union
Telegraph Company v. New Hope, 187 1U. S. 419, where we said
(p. 427):
"This license fee was not a tax on the property of the company, or on its transmission of messages, or on its receipts from
such transmission, or on its occupation or business, but was a
charge in the enforcement of local governmental supervision,
and as such not in itself obnoxious to the clause of the Constitution relied on."
Following that decision, we hold that the city of Philadelphia
had power to pass such an ordinance as this, requiring the company to pay a reasonable license fee for the enforcement of
local governmental supervision. In other words, if a corporation, although engaged in the business of interstate commerce,
so carries on its business as to justify, at the hands of any municipality, a police supervision of the property and instrumentalities
used therein, the municipality is not bound to furnish such
supervision for nothing, and may, in addition to ordinary property taxation, subject the corporation to a charge for the expense of the supervision.
But it does not follow from this that a municipality is not
subject to any restraint in the amount of the charge which it
so exacts. True it is often said that a license tax isin its nature arbitrary ; that it is not necessarily graduated by the value
of the property invested in the business licensed or its profitableness. But such observations are pertinent only in case the
license is resorted to for the purposes of revenue. When it is
authorized only in support of police supervision the expense of
such supervision determines the amount of the charge, and if it
were possible to prove in advance the exact cost that would be
the limit of the tax. In the nature of things that, however, is
ordinarily impossible, and so the municipality is at liberty to
make the charge large enough to cover any reasonable antici-

ATLANTIC &c. TEL. CO. v. PHILADELPHIA.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pated expenses. It is authorized to fix such charge in advance,
and need not wait until the end of the period for which the
license is granted. It may not act arbitrarily or unreasonably,
but the risk may rightfully be cast upon the licensee, and the
charge cannot be avoided because it subsequently appears that
it was somewhat in excess of the actual expense of the supervision, nor can the licensee then recover the difference between
the amount of the license and such cost.
Now, the license in question is, as stated, confessedly not for
the purpose of raising revenue. Indeed, if it were, as it appears by the affidavit of defence that the company had paid all
taxes charged upon its property as property, it might be obnoxious to a complaint of double taxation. It is not like the
tax in Postal Cable Telegraph Company v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688,
which, although called a privilege tax, was in fact a property
tax, and the only property tax upon the company, in respect
to which we said (p. 696):
"Doubtless, no State could add to the taxation of property
according to the rule of ordinary property taxation, the burden
of a license or other tax on the privilege of using, constructing,
or operating an instrumentality of interstate or international
commerce or for the carrying on of such commerce; but the
value of property results from the use to which it is put and
varies with the profitableness of that use, and by whatever
name the exaction may be called, if it amounts to no more than
the ordinary tax upon property or a just equivalent therefor,
ascertained by reference thereto, it is not open to attack as inconsistent with the Constitution."
We pass, therefore, to consider the question of the reasonableness of this license charge. Primafacie,it was reasonable.
Western Union Telegraph Company v. New Hope, supra. It
devolved upon the company to show that it was not. The
case, as we have seen, was tried before the court and a jury.
Upon the testimony the court instructed the jury to find for
the plaintiff the full amount claimed. In support of this action
it is contended that the question of reasonableness was one to
be determined by the court and not by the jury, and further

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

that there was no testimony from which either a court or jury
could find that the charge was unreasonable.
It may be conceded that, generally speaking, whether an ordinance be reasonable, is a question for the court. As said by
Judge Dillon, in his work on Municipal Corporations, 4th ed.
vol. 1, sec. 327: "Whether an ordinance be reasonable and
consistent with the law or not is a question for the court, and
not the jury, and evidence to the latter on this subject is inadmissible." While that may be correct as a general statement
of the law, and especially in cases in which the question of
reasonableness turns on the character of the regulations prescribed, yet when it turns on the amount of a license charge it
may rightly be left for the determination of a jury. There are
many matters which enter into the consideration of such a
question, not infrequently matters which are disputed and in
respect to which there is contradictory testimony. As said
by Mr. Justice Shiras, when presiding in the Court of Appeals in the Third Circuit, in a similar case, City of Philadelphia v. Festern Union Telegraphp Company, 89 Fed. Rep. 454,
461:
"When it is said, in some of the cases, that such a question is
for the determination of the court, it is not meant that the
question may not properly be submitted to a jury. What is
meant by such observations is that courts are not precluded
from considering the reasonableness of the legislative act preRegardscribing the terms and amount of the charges.
ing, then, the issue to be tried as one of fact, we think it is one
which, from its nature, is eminently fit for the determination
of a jury. The expenses attending direct regulation and oversight are not only to be considered, but also the incidental
cost to which the municipality is subjected in providing for
and maintaining a proper system of supervision. We cannot
undertake to specify all the particulars which should be brought
into view where the reasonableness of a municipal ordinance is
challenged in a court; but we think that the rule laid down in
Cooley Const. Lim. (ed. 1886) p. 242, may be safely adopted:
'A municipal corporation may impose under the police power
such a charge for the license as will cover the necessary ex-

ATLANTIC &c. TEL. CO. v. PHILADELPHIA.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

penses of issuing it, and the additional labor of officers and other
expenses thereby incurred.'"
It is urged by the city that inasmuch as the license fees here
charged are the same as those charged by the borough of New
Hope, the validity of which was sustained in Western Union
Telegraph Co pany v. _New Hope, spra, it necessarily follows that the charges here imposed are reasonable. But this is
a mistake. What is reasonable in one municipality may be oppressive and unreasonable in another. "In determining this
question the court will have to regard all the circumstances of
the particular city or corporation, the objects sought to be attained, and the necessity which exists for the ordinance. Regulations proper for a large and prosperous city might be absurd
or oppressive in a small and sparsely populated town, or in the
country." 1 Dillon's Municipal Corporations, 4th ed. see. 327.
The reasonableness of this license charge being tried before
a jury, the parties were entitled to a finding of the jury upon
that question of fact, unless the testimony was such as to compel a decision one way or the other, in which case the court
might be justified in directing a verdict. After a careful review of the evidence we are constrained to believe that it was
not such as to exclude any other conclusion than that directed
by the court. We do not hold that it was not sufficient to sustain a finding by the jury to that effect, but simply that there
were matters presented from which a jury might rightfully
conclude that the ordinance and license charges were unreasonable. Without noticing all the evidence, we content ourselves with these matters. On January 6, 1881, an ordinance
was passed by the city council imposing a license fee of one
dollar for each and every telegraph pole erected or maintained
in the city. Another ordinance of date March 30, 1883, regulating underground conduits, wires and cables, and providing
for license charges for underground and overhead wires, imposed
an annual license charge of two dollars and fifty cents per mile
of wire for overhead telegraph wires, and one dollar per mile
for underground wires. Upon these ordinances the claim was
made against the company. On August 5, 1886, a further ordinance was passed, removing all charges upon underground

OCTOBER TERMT, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

wires. The chief of the electrical bureau of the city, without
objection, testified that the removal of all charges on underground wires in 1886, was "as an inducement to have the wires
placed underground, and the only requirement was that whoever did it should supply the city or furnish the city with one
duct or chamber for the use of the city. There was no other
charge connected with it. It was to remove all license charges,
to have them place their wires underground." There was evidence of the expenses of the electrical bureau for the years in
question, and that such electrical bureau supervised all electrical
work upon the streets, but there was no testimony definitely disclosing how much of the labor of that bureau was in respect to
telegraph wires and poles, and how much in respect to electric
light wires and poles, although there was evidence of the general
manner in which the electrical bureau conducted its work of
supervision and the matters which came within the scope of its
attention. On the other hand, the company showed the extent of its own supervision and the cost of repair, maintenance
and supervision, which for the years from 1885 to 1891, inclusive, amounted to only $1.60?- per mile. There was also proof
of the number of electric light lamps, poles and miles of wire
within the city, and other kindred facts.
Now the comparison of all this evidence, the determination
of its weight and effect, and whether the charge made by the
city for supervision was reasonable or not, should have been
left to the jury. As there was testimony that the actual cost
of maintenance, repair and supervision by the company was
during the years in question less than one half that charged
by the city for supervision alone, and as it appeared that at
first the license fee per mile of overhead wire was two dollars
and fifty cents, and of underground wire one dollar, and that
within three years thereafter all charges in respect to underground wire were taken away, and, as the head of the
electrical department declared, so taken away for the purpose of inducing the removal of overhead wires and placing
them all underground, a jury might have found that the
ordinance was unreasonable. It might have come to the conclusion that the charge was not made simply to meet the ex-

PATTERSON v. BARK EUDORA.
Syllabus.

190 U. S.

penses of supervision, but rather to make a charge so burdensome as to compel the company to remove its wires from poles
and put them in conduits. We do not say that a city has not,
by virtue of its police powers, authority directly to compel the
removal of wires from poles to conduits, but it may be questionable whether a city can seek the same results by an excessive and unreasonable charge upon'overhead wires. We think,
therefore, the court erred in withdrawing the case from the
jury.
Before concluding we repeat that we are not intending to
express any opinion as to the effect of the testimony as a
whole, or to intimate what the verdict of a jury ought to be,
nor do we mean to imply that there must be satisfactory evidence of the actual cost of supervision. All we mean to decide
is that there was sufficient testimony to go to the jury and
obtain its judgment whether the ordinance passed by the city
and the charges imposed thereby were, considering all the circumstances of the case, reasonable or oppressive.
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded with instructions to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial.
iMR.

JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM

MoKENNA concurred in

and MR.

JUSTICE

the judgment.

PATTERSON v. BARK EUDORA.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 278. Argued May 1, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

The title is no part of a statute. Where a statute declares that it shall apply to foreign vessels as vwell as vessels of the United States, the fact
that its title states that it relates to American seamen cannot be used to
set at naught the obvious meaning of the statute itself.
Contracts for seamen's wages are exceptional in character and may be subjected to special restrictions, and whenever they relate to commerce not
wholly within a State, legislation enforcing such restrictions comes

