OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

LOCKWOOD v. EXCHANGE BANK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 226. Argued April 7, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

Under the bankruptcy act of 1898, the title to property of a bankrupt
which is generally exempted by the law of the State in which the bankrupt resides, remains in the bankrupt and does not pass to the trustee,
and the bankrupt court has no power to administer such property even

if the bankrupt has, under a law of the State, waived his exemption in
favor of certain of his creditors.
The fact that the act confers upon the bankruptcy court authority to control exempt property in order to set it aside does not mean that the
court can administer and distribute it as an asset of the estate. The two
provisions of the statute must be construed together and both be given
effect.
The discharge of the bankrupt, however, can be withheld until a reasonable time has elapsed to enable creditors to assert in a state court their

rights to subject exempt property in satisfaction of their claims under
waivers given as security therefor by the bankrupt.
IN this proceeding, upon certain questions being certified by
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for decision by this court, a writ of certiorari was allowed,
and the entire record has been brought up for consideration.
The controversy is fully set forth in the following "statement of case," embodied in the certificate of the Circuit Court
of Appeals:
"On the 23d day of November, 1900, said Joel W. Lockwood
was on his application duly adjudged a bankrupt by the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Georgia.
On December 6, 1900, F. T. Rape was duly appointed trustee
for said bankrupt; on the 16th day of December, 1900, the'
said F. T. Rape, trustee, set aside and designated as an exemption all of the property returned by the said bankrupt in his
schedule of assets. On the 1st day of January, 1901, the Exchange Bank of Fort Valley, a creditor who had duly proven
its debt as an unsecured claim, filed exceptions to the trus-

v. EXCHANGE BANK.
LOCKWOOD
1
190 U. S.

295

Statement of the Case.

tee's assignment of homestead and exemption upon the following grounds:
" (a.) That said creditor held a contract against the bankrupt in which said bankrupt specially waived and renounced
all right to the homestead exemption allowed by the laws of
Georgia or the United States. Said waiver is contained in a
note constituting contract of indebtedness and was made in
accordance with the provisions of the constitution and laws of
said State authorizing and empowering the debtor to waive
and renounce in writing his right to the benefit of the exemption provided for by the constitution and laws of said State.
"'(b.) That creditoFs debt was unsecured save and except
so far as a waiver of homestead and exemption may be construed as a security.
" ' (c.) That the trustee has set apart all the property of said
bankrupt returned by him in bankruptcy.
,,(d.) Under the laws of Georgia, the debtor's exemption
cannot be subjected to the payment of a debt containing a
waiver of homestead except by putting said debt in judgment,
and afterwards causing execution to issue thereon to be levied
on the exempt property in accordance with the provisions of
section 2850, et seq., of the Code of Georgia. If bankrupt court
should approve trustee's assignment in this case without reserving to petitioner the right to sue his claim and put same in
judgment, and without itself giving judgment for said debt,
creditor would be left without means of enforcing his rights
created and arising out of the aforesaid waiver and would be
without remedy.
"' (e.) Creditor therefore prays equitable relief and such decree as will protect his rights, that the homestead be set aside
and trustee be required to take charge of and administer the
property of said bankrupt so set apart, except so much as cannot be waived for the benefit of creditors holding waiver contracts.'
"To these exceptions of the creditor the bankrupt duly filed
a demurrer on the following grounds:
" ' (a.) That said exceptions are wholly insufficient in law to
defeat the report of the trustee.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

190 U. S.

"'(b.) That the exceptions made are not such as under the
laws of Georgia will defeat the setting apart of the exemption,
and furnish no reason why the trustee should not assign the
exemption.
"'(c.) That the bankrupt court has no jurisdiction over exempted property and no authority to administer the sam'e.
"' (d.) That there is no authority of law for the exceptions
made, nor for the relief sought.'
"The referee, Hon. Shelby Myrick, overruled the aforesaid
demurrer and directed the trustee to carve out of the said exemption of property a portion of the same, amounting to $300.00,
which was to be free from the claims of all creditors. The
residue of the exempted property was to be sold and the proceeds held by the trustee for the benefit of creditors holding
waiver notes. The bankrupt was ordered to yield possession
to the trustee for the purpose of carrying out this order. The
referee, at the request of bankrupt, certified the record in said
case, together with his decision thereon, to the HIonorable Emory Speer, judge of the District Court of said district, for final
determination. On the 30th March, 1901, said case came on
regularly to be tried before said district judge, and after hearing argument of counsel, his honor Judge Emory Speer, held
and decided and adjudged the aforesaid exceptions to the determinations and report of the trustee be sustained, and that
the exemptions set apart by the trustee in his said report be
denied and refused to the said bankrupt, save and except the
item of household furniture and wearing apparel, and that the
said bankrupt was not entitled to an exemption as claimed by
him by reason of having waived and renounced in writing his
rights thereto in accordance with the constitution and laws of
the State of Georgia."
This judgment of the District Court is the one complained
of, and which was sought to be revised in the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
MP. Stephen W Parker for petitioner.
-Mr. J. Xf. Terrell,
Messrs. Allen Fort & Son and Afr. John TEr Hfaygood were on
the brief.

LOCKWOOD v. EXCHANGE BANK.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mi'. Olin J. Wimbely for respondents.
was on the brief.
MNR. JUSTICE WHITE,

.Xr. John _. Eall

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The general exemption of property from levy or sale, authorized by article 9, see. 1, par. 1, of the present constitution of
the State of Georgia (that of 1877), is "realty or personalty, or
both, to the value in the aggregate of sixteen hundred dollars."
By article 9, see. 3, par. 1, of the same constitution a debtor is
vested with power to waive or renounce in writing this right of
exemption, "except as to wearing apparel, and not exceeding
three hundred dollars worth of household and kitchen furniture,
and provisions." The mode of enforcement of a waiver of exemption is provided for in section 2850 of the Code of 1895,
reading as follows:
"In all cases when any defendant in execution has applied
for, and had set apart a homestead of realty and personalty, or
either, or where the same has been applied for and set apart out
of his property, as provided for by the constitution and laws of
this State, and the plaintiff in execution is seeking to proceed
with the same, and there is no property except the homestead
on which to levy, upon the. ground that his debt falls within
some one of the classes for which the homestead is bound under
the constitution, it shall and may be lawful for such plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, to make affidavit before any officer authorized to administer oaths, that, to the best of his knowledge
and belief, the debt upon which such execution is founded is
one from which the homestead is not exempt, and it shall be
the duty of the officer in whose hands the execution and affidavit are placed to proceed at once to levy and sell, as though
the property had never been set apart. The defendant in such
execution may, if he desires to do so, deny the truth of the
plaintiff's affidavit, by filing with the levying officer a counter
affidavit."
The question presented on the record before us may be stated
in similar language to that which was used by the district judge

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

-the correctness of whose decision in the case at bar is now
for review-in the course of his opinion in _& re Trood 'uf, 96
Fed. Rep. 317, as follows (p. 318):
"Has the bankruptcy court jurisdiction to protect or enforce
against the bankrupt's exemption the rights of creditors not
having a judgment or other lien, whose promissory notes or
other like obligations to pay contain a written waiver of the
homestead and exemption authorized and prescribed by the
constitution of the State, or are such creditors to be remitted
to the state courts for such relief as may be there obtained?"
The provisions of the bankruptcy act of 1898, which control
the consideration of the question just propounded, are as follows: By clause 11 of section 2 courts of bankruptcy are vested
with jurisdiction "to determine all claims of bankrupts to their
exemptions." Section 6 provides as follows:
"SEc. 6. This act shall not affect the allowance to bankrupts
of the exemptions which are prescribed by the state laws in
force at the time of the filing of the petition in the State
wherein they have had their domicile for the six months or
the greater portion thereof immediately preceding the filing
of the petition."
By clause 8 of section 7 the bankrupt is required to schedule
all his property and to make "a claim for such exemptions as
he may be entitled to." By clause 11 of section 47 it is made
the duty of the trustees to "set apart the bankrupt's exemptions and report the items and estimated value thereof to the
court as soon as practicable after their appointment." By section 67 it is provided, among other things, that the property
of the debtor fraudulently conveyed, etc., "shall, if he be adjudged a bankrupt, and the same is not exempt from execution
and liability for debts by the law of his domicile, be and remain
a part of the assets and estate of the bankrupt," etc. In section 70 is enumerated the property of the bankrupt which
is to vest in the trustee, as of the date of the adjudication
in bankruptcy, "except in so far as it is to property which is
exempt."
Under the bankruptcy act of 1867 it was held that property
generally exempted by the state law from the claims of credit-

LOCKWOOD v. EXCHANGE BANK.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ors was not part of the assets of the bankrupt and did not
pass to the assignee, but that such property must be pursued
by those having special claims against it in the proper state
tribunals. Thus, 'speaking of the act of 1867, Mr. Xustice
Bradley (In e Bass, 3 Woods, 382, 384) said:
"Not only is all property exempted by state laws, as those
laws stood in 1871, expressly excepted from the operation of
the conveyance to the assignee, but it is added in the section
referred to, as if ex industria, that 'these exceptions shall
operate as a limitation upon the conveyance of the property of
the bankrupt to his assignee, and in no case shall the property
hereby excepted pass to the assignee or the title of the bankrupt thereto be impaired or affected by any of the provisions
of this title.'
"In other words, it is made as clear as anything can be,
that such exempted property constitutes no part of the assets
in bankruptcy. The agreement of the bankrupt in any particular case to waive the right to the exemption makes no difference. He may owe other debts in regard to which no such
agreement has been made. But whether so or not, it is not
for the bankrupt court to inquire. The exemption is created
by the state law, and the assignee acquires no title to the
exempt property. If the creditor has a claim against it he
must prosecute that claim in a court which has jurisdiction
over the property, which the bankrupt court has not."
We think that the terms of the bankruptcy act of 1898,
above set out, as clearly evidence the intention of Congress
that the title to the property of a bankrupt generally exempted
by state laws should remain in the bankrupt and not pass to
his representative in bankruptcy, as did the provisions of the
act of 1867, considered in An Pe Bass. The fact that the act
of 1898 confers upon the court of bankruptcy authority to
control exempt property in order to set it aside, and thus exclude it from the assets of the bankrupt estate to be administered, affords no just ground for holding that the court of
bankruptcy must administer and distribute, as included in the
assets of the estate, the very property which the act in unambiguous language declares shall not pass from the bankrupt or

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

become part of the bankuptcy assets. The two provisions of
the statute must be construed together and both be given
effect. Moreover, the want of power in the court of bankruptcy to administer exempt property is besides shown by the
context of the act, since throughout its text exempt property
is contrasted with property not exempt, the latter alone constituting assets of the bankrupt estate subject to administration. The act of 1898, instead of manifesting the purpose of
Congress to adopt a different rule from that which was applied,
as we have seen with reference to the act of 1867, on the contrary exhibits the intention to perpetuate the rule, since the
provision of the statute to which we have referred in reason is
consonant only with that hypothesis.
Though it be conceded that some inconvenience may arise
from the construction which the text of the statute requires,
the fact of such inconvenience would not justify us in disregarding both its letter and spirit. Besides, if mere arguments
of inconvenience were to have weight, the fact cannot be overlooked that the contrary construction would produce a greater
inconvenience. The difference, however, between the two is
this, that in the latter case-that is, causing the exempt property .to form a part of the bankruptcy assets--the inconvenience
would be irremediable, since it would compel the administration of the exempt property as part of the estate in bankruptcy,
whilst in the other, the rights of creditors having no lien, as in
the case at bar, but having a remedy under the state law
against the exempt property, may be protected by the court of
bankruptcy, since, certainly, there would exist in favor of a
creditor holding a waiver note, like that possessed by the petitioning creditor in the case at bar, an equity entitling him to a
reasonable postponement of the discharge of the bankrupt, in
order to allow the institution in the state court of such proceedings as might be necessary to make effective the rights
possessed by the creditor.
As in the case at bar, the entire property which the bankrupt
owned is within the exemption of the state law, it becomes unnecessary to consider what, if any, remedy might be available
in the court of bankruptcy for the benefit of general creditors,

COSMOS CO. v. GRAY EAGLE CO.
190 U. S.

Syllabus.

in order to prevent the creditor holding the waiver as to exempt property from taking a dividend on his whole claim from
the general assets, and thereafter availing himself of the right
resulting from the waiver to proceed against exempt pioperty.
The judgment of the _District Court is reversed, and the pro
ceeding is remanded to that court with directions to overrule

the exceptions to the trustee's assignment of homestead and
exemption, and to withhold the discharge of the bankrupt,
jf he be otherwise entitled thereto, until a reasonable time
has elapsed for the excepting creditor to assert in a state
tribunal his alleged right to subject the exempt property to
the satisfactionof his claim.

COSMOS EXPLORATION COMPANY v. GRAY EAGLE
OIL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 217. Argued March 16, 17, 1903.-Decided May 18, 1903.

The general administration of the Forest Reserve Act, and also the determination of the various questions which may arise thereunder before the
issuing of any patent for lands selected under the provisions of the act,
are vested in the Land Department.
The courts cannot be called upon, in advance of, and without reference to,
the action of the Land Department to determine the right and title of a
person, who has surrendered lands under the act of June 4, 1897, and
selected others, in the lands so selected, or to render a final decree determining the interest of the parties to the action in such lands, while
the questions in relation to the title are still properly before the Land
Department and have not yet been decided.
The Land Department has the statutory right to make rules and regulations, and the courts will take judicial knowledge of such rules and regulations as shall be made by it regarding the sale or exchange of public
lands.
Whether it is necessary under the Forest Reserve Act for the selector, at the
time of making his selection, to file in addition to his non-mineral affidavit, an affidavit that the land is not occupied in fact, is a question of
law for the Land Department to determine, although such decision might
not be binding on the court if such question properly arose in future liti-

