NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. TOWNSEND.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.

TOWNSEND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 160. Submitted January 30, 1903.-Decided May 4, 1903.
Where the United States grants a right of way by statute to a railroad company which files a map of definite location, and the road is constructed,
the land forming the right of way is taken out of the category of public
land subject to preEmption and sale, and the land department is without
authority to convey rights therein. Homesteaders filing entries thereafter can acquire no interest in land within the right of way on the ground
that the grants to them were of full legal subdivisions the descriptions
whereof include part of the right of way.
Although a right of way granted by the United States through public domain within a State may be amenable to the police power of that State,
an individual cannot for private purposes acquire by adverse possession
under a statute of limitations of that State any portion of a right of way
granted by the United States to a railroad company in the manner and
under the conditions as the right of way was granted to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company.

Tins controversy concerns the validity of an asserted title,
by adverse possession, to a portion of the right of way in
Wadena County, Minnesota, granted to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, its successors and assigns, by the second
section of the act of Congress, approved July 2, 1864. 13 Stat.
365. The plaintiff in error, the Northern Pacific Railway
Company, a corporation of the State of Wisconsin, acquired
the railroad and property of the former named company on or
about August 31, 1896, by purchase at a sale under foreclosure
of certain mortgages.
By the first section of the act of 1864, the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company was created a corporation, and was empowered to construct and maintain a continuous railroad and
telegraph line from a point on Lake Superior to some point on
Puget Sound. In the second section of the act it was provided,
among other things, as follows:

OCTOBER TERAI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

"And be itfurther enacted, That the right of way through
the public lands be, and the same is hereby, granted to said
Northern Pacific Railroad Company, its successors and assigns,
for the construction of a railroad and telegraph as proposed ;
and the right, power, and authority is hereby given to said
corporation to take from the public lands, adjacent to the line
of said road, material of earth, stone, timber, and so forth, for
the construction thereof. Said way is granted to said railroad
to the extent of two hundred feet in width on each side of said
railroad where it may pass through the public domain, including all necessary ground for station buildings, workshops,
depots, machine shops, switches, side tracks, turntables and
water stations; and the right of way shall be exempt from
"
taxation within the Territories of the United States.
Section 3 created a large land grant to secure the construction and continuous maintenance of the road. Construction
was to be supervised by commissioners appointed by the President. (Sec. 4.) Section 5 provided how the road must be built,
and that the company should not charge the government
higher rates than individuals. The right of eminent domain
was conferred by section 7. In section 8 conditions of the
grant in respect to the commencement and completion of the
construction of the road were enumerated. Section 9 reserved
the right to Congress to complete the road. Section 10 secured
to all the people of the United States the right to subscribe
for its stock. Section 11 made it a post road subject to the
use of the United States for government service, and subject
to such regulations as Congress might impose respecting charges
for government transportation. The remaining provisions of
the act dealt with the mode of acceptance of the grant, the
powers and duties of the board of directors and other officers
of the company, the payments of cash assessments and other
subjects. We need only further particularly refer, however,
to section 18, wherein it was provided that the railroad company, previous to commencing the construction of its road,
should obtain the consent of the legislature of any State through
which any portion of its line might pass. Such consent was
duly given by the State of Minnesota.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. TOWNSEND.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The company signified its acceptance in writing, as provided
in the act. In November, 1871, the line of road was definitely
located and a duly approved map was filed showing said definite location. This line crossed the northwest quarter of
section 24, township 134 north, of range 35, west of the fifth
principal meridian, Minnesota. At that time, as well as prior
thereto, said quarter section was public land, to which the
United States had full title, and the same was not reserved or
otherwise appropriated, nor had any entries or filings or applications to make entry or filing thereon been made. During
the years 1870 and 1871 the railroad was duly constructed
through the section referred to, and the portion of the road
thus constructed was thereafter duly accepted by the President.
In December, 1878, and February, 1882, homestead entries
were initiated on said northwest quarter of section 24, and on
November 30, 1885, and July 24, 1889, patents, which purported to convey the whole of each forty-acre subdivision, were
issued to Abner Townsend and George H. Brown, respectively.
Subsequently, in 1886 and 1888, the title to said northwest
quarter was conveyed to the defendant in error, Minerva
Townsend. During the occupancy of the homesteaders they
cultivated up to the line of the ordinary and snow fences of
the railroad, situated respectively fifty and one hundred feet
from the center of the track, and such occupancy continued a
sufficient length of time to constitute a title by adverse possession under the limitation statutes of Minnesota. Demand was
made by the railroad company for possession of that portion of
the quarter section which was within the granted right of way,
and upon non-compliance an action of ejectment was brought
in a court of the State of Minnesota to recover possession of
the disputed ground. The case was tried by the court without
a jury. Lengthy findings of fact were made, and as a conclusion of law the court found that the railroad company was
entitled to the possession of the premises described, and entered
judgment accordingly.
On appeal, the Supreme Court of Minnesota reversed the
judgment of the trial court. 84 Minnesota, 152. The cause
was then brought to this court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

Mr. C. W. Bunn and -Mr. James B. KeT for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. A. G. Broker,Mr. . F. Post and Mr. Harold Prestom
for defendant in error.
MRL.

JUSTICE WHITE, after making

the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
At the outset, we premise that, as the grant of the right of
way, the filing of the map of definite location, and the construction of the railroad within the quarter section in question
preceded the filing of the homestead entries on such section,
the land forming the right of way therein was taken out of the
category of public lands subject to pre6mption and sale, and the
land department was therefore without authority to convey
rights therein. It follows that the homesteaders acquired no
interest in the land within the right of way because of the fact
that the grant to them was of the full legal subdivisions.
Conceding the adverse possession and its efficacy under the
state law as against the railroad right of way, to be as found
by the state court, the sole question which arises then for
decision is whether, in view of the provisions of the act of Congress to which we have referred, an asserted title by adverse
possession can be made efficacious as respects the property in
controversy. And depending, as this question does, upon the
nature and effect of the acts of Congress, its solution necessarily involves a Federal question.
In determining whether an individual, for private purposes
may, by adverse possession, under a state statute of limitations,
acquire title to a portion of the right of way granted by the
United States for the use of this railroad, we must be guided
by the doctrine enunciated in Paker v. Bird,137 U. S. 661,
669, and approvingly referred to in Shively v. Bowby, 152
U. S. 1, 41, viz.: "The courts of the United States will construe the grants of the general government without reference
to the rules of construction adopted by the States for their
grants; but whatever incidents or rights attach to the owner-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. TOWNSEND.
190 U. S.

2-71-

Opinion of the Court.

ship of property conveyed by the government will be determined by the States, subject to the condition that their rules
do not impair the efficacy of the grants or the use and enjoyment of the propdrty by the grantee." Following decisions of
this court construing grants of rights of way similar in tenor
to the grant now being considered, .Hew Mexico v. United
States Trust Co., 172 U. S. 171, 181; St. Joseph & Denver City
R. RI. Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426, it must be held that the
fee passed by the grant made in section 2 of the act of July 2,
1864. But, although there was a present grant, it was yet
subject to conditions expressly stated in the act, and also (to
quote the language of the Baldwin case) "to those necessarily
implied, such as that the road shall be . . . used for the
purposes designed." Manifestly, the land forming the right
of way was not granted with the intent that it might be absolutely disposed of at the volition of the company. On the
contrary, the grant was explicitly stated to be for a designated
purpose, one which negated the existence of the power to voluntarily alienate the right of way or any portion thereof. The
substantial consideration inducing the grant was the perpetual
use of the land for the legitimate purposes of the railroad, just
as though the land had been conveyed in terms to have and to
hold the same so long as it was used for the railroad right of
way. In effect the grant was of a limited fee, made on an implied condition of reverter in the event that the company
ceased to use or retain the land for the purpose for which it
was granted. This being the nature of the title to the land
granted for the special purpose named, it is evident that to
give such efficacy to a statute of limitations of a State as would
operate to confer a permanent right of possession to any portion
thereof upon an individual for his private use, would be to
allow that to be done by indirection which could not be done
directly, for, as said in Grand Trunk Railroad v. Richardson,
91 U. S. 454, 468, "a railroad company is not at, liberty to.
alienate any part of its roadway so as to interfere with the
full exercise of the franchises, granted." lNor can it be rightfully contended that the portion of the right.of way appropriated was not necessary for the execution of the powers con-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

ferred by Congress, for, as said in Northern PaoiAf Railroad
Co. v. Smith), 171 U. S. 261, 275, speaking of the very grant under consideration: "By granting a right of way four hundred
feet in width, Congress must be understood tohave conclusively
determined that a strip of that width was necessary for a public
work of such importance." Neither courts nor juries, therefore,
nor the general public, may be permitted to conjecture that a
portion of such right of way is no longer needed for the use of
the railroad and title to it has vested in whomsoever chooses
to occupy the same. The whole of the granted right of way
must be presumed to be necessary for the purposes of the railroad, as against a claim by an individual of an exclusive right
of possession for private purposes.
To repeat, the right of way was given in order that the obligations to the United States assumed in the acceptance of the
act might be performed. Congress having plainly manifested
its intention that the title to and possession of the right of
way should continue in the original grantee, its successors and
assigns, so long as the railroad was maintained, the possession
by individuals of portions of the right of way cannot be treated
without overthrowing the act of Congress as forming the basis
of an adverse possession which may ripen into a title good as
against the railroad company.
Of course, nothing that has been said in anywise imports
that a right of way granted through the public domain within
a State is not amenable to the police power of the State. Congress must have assumed when making this grant, for instance,
that in the natural order of events, as settlements were made
along the line of the railroad, crossings of the right of way
would become necessary, and that other limitations in favor of
the general public upon an exclusive right of occupancy by the
railroad of its right of way might be justly imposed. But such
limitations are in no sense analogous to claim of adverse ownership for private use.
As our construction of the act of Congress determines the
question presented for decision, it becomes unnecessary to review the cases which have been called to our attention supporting on the one hand or denying on the other the broad conten-

INTERSTATE COMM. v. LOUISVILLE &c. R. R.
190 U. S.

273

Syllabus.

tion that title by adverse possession, under state statutes of
limitation, may be acquired by individuals to land within the
right of way of a railroad. None of the cases adverted to as
holding the affirmative of the proposition even suggest that the
rule would be applicable where its enforcement would conflict
with the powers and duties imposed by law on a railroad corporation in a given case. As here we find that the nature of
the duties imposed by Congress upon the railroad company
and the character of the title conferred by Congress in giving
the right of way through the public domain are inconsistent
with the power in an individual to acquire, for private purposes,
by limitation, a portion of the right of way granted by Congress, the cases in question are inapposite.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota must be
Reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUsTIcE

HARLAN

and Mnr. JusTioE

BROwN

dissent.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
A-PPEAL FROM THE CIROUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 214. Argued April 13, 1903.-Decided May 18, 1903.
1. When competition which controls rates prevails at a given point a dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions is created justifying a carrier
in charging a lesser rate to such point, it being the longer distance, than
it exacts to a shorter distance and non-competitive point on the same line.
2. A nearer and non-competitive point on the same line is not entitled to
lower rates preyailing at a longer distance and competitive place on the
theory that it could also be made a competitive point if designated lines
of railway carriers by combinations between themselves agreed to that
end. The competition necessary to produce a dissimilarily of conditions
must be real and controlling and not merely conjectural or possible.
3. Where a charge of a lesser rate for a longer than a shorter haul over the
same line is lawful because of the existence of controlling competition at
the longer distance place the mere fact that the less charge is made for
the longer distance does not alone suffice to cause the lesser rate for the
longer distance to be unduly discriminatory.
VOL. CxC-18

