OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

GEER v. MATHIESON ALKALI WORKS.
FOR THE
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
YORK.
NEW
OF
SOUTHERN DISTRICT
No. 261. Submitted April 24, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

the
On the authority of Conley v. .fathieson Alkali Works, ante, p. 406,
corporation
foreign
a
of
director
a
on
York
New
in
service of a summons
not transacting business in that State held insufficient.
In an action brought in a state court by citizens of one State against two
corporations, citizens of another State, and the directors thereof, some of
whom are citizens of the same State as the plaintiff, for the purpose of
setting aside a conveyance made by one defendant corporation to the
other, the action may be severable as to the conveying corporation; and
if it is so, and as to the cause of action alleged against it, its directors are
not necessary parties, it may remove the action as to it into the Circuit
Court of the United States.

THIS is an appeal from an order dismissing appellants' bill for
want of due service of process.
The suit is in equity, and was commenced in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York to set aside the conveyance
made by the MIathieson Alkali Company to the Castner Electrolytic Alkali Company, on the ground that the conveyance
was fraudulent. The directors of the former company were
made defendants. On the petition of the defendant companies
the case was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York, on the ground that the
controversy was wholly between citizens of different States,
and separable as to them. The appellants made the motion in
the Circuit Court to remand the case to the state court, but the
motion was denied, the Circuit Court saying:
"Whatever relief the complainants may be entitled to against
the directors upon the facts alleged, they would as to the two
corporations be entitled to a decree for retransfer of the property and an accounting for damages sustained by the transfer.
This is a controversy separable from the one between complainants and the officers and directors who effected the trans-

GEER v. MATHIESON ALKALI WORKS.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

fer, and citizenship of the parties to that separable controversy
being such as the statute contemplates the motion to remand
is denied."
The Mathieson Alkali Works (which we shall designate hereafter as the Mathieson Company) then moved the court to set
aside the summons and the service thereof on the ground that it,
the Mathieson Company, was at the time of the service of the
summons a foreign corporation, and at that time, and for some
time before, had no place of transacting business in the State
of New York, and transacted no business therein. Affidavits
were presented on the motion, and it was granted.
The appellants were plaintiffs in the court below, and we will
so call them. They are stockholders in the Mathieson Company. Some of them are citizens of the State of New York,
some citizens of States other than Virginia, and some citizens
of Great Britain and Ireland. It is alleged that the defendant
corporations are Virginia corporations, and that each has an
office and place of business in the city of New York, and that
all but two of the directors of the Castner Electrolytic Alkali
Company, hereafter called the Castner Company, resided there,
and that the property, to recover which the suit is brought, is
situated in the State of New York.
The purpose of the Mathieson Company was to manufacture
salt, soda, soda ash, bleaching powder and other minerals, and
to carry on a general merchandise business, and engage in agriculture and stock raising.
The bill is very voluminous, and it is enough to explain the
contentions in the case to say that it recites the organization
and history of the Mathieson Company; the erection and operation by it of a manufacturing plant at Saltville, Virginia; the
leasing by it from the Niagara Falls Power Company of land
and power at Niagara Falls, and the establishment of a plant
there for the manufacture of the commodities mentioned in the
charter of the company, and the carrying on of a profitable
business. The bill alleges on information and belief that the
defendants Arnold and Wilson are respectively the president
and financial agent and manager of the company; the defendants Agar and Ely, their attorneys; Gladding, an employs of

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

some sort, and the directors, other than Arnold and Wilson,
are dummies without substantial interest in the company. That
Arnold and Wilson have conducted the affairs of the company
with great secrecy and for their own interests; that Arnold is
a member of the firm of Arnold, H-offman & Co., dealers in
chemicals, in the city of iNew York, and by arrangements nominally between the firm and the company, but really between
Wilson and the firm, the latter has had the exclusive sale and
disposition of the products of the company since the organization, of the details of which the plaintiffs are ignorant, because
they have been kept secret from the stockholders. That, though
dividends have been earned, none have been declared or paid, but
the earnings have been appropriated by Arnold and Wilson.
That they, with the other directors, have confederated and conspired to fraudulently dispose of and do away with substantially
all of the property of the company, and have attempted to do so
by means of the conveyance to the Castner Company set out in
the bill; and, to better conceal their acts, have obtained no certificate from the Secretary of State nor designated any person
upon whom process can be served. That the Castner Company
was promoted and organized by the defendants Arnold and
Wilson, and is controlled by them, and they are chiefly interested in its affairs. That plaintiffs only obtained knowledge of
the existence of that company within the past few days, and of
the conveyance to it, but have no precise knowledge of its affairs,
and believe that the great body of the stockholders of the Mathieson Company are ignorant of the existence of the Castner Company or of the conveyance to it. That by a communication from
the Secretary of State it appears that the Castner Company
was incorporated April 30, 1901, under the laws of Virginia,
and that its officers consisted of a president, vice president and
seven directors; and a provision in the articles of incorporation
show that the defendants Wilson, Arnold and Agar are directors,
and that Richard T. Wilson, Jr., a son of the defendant Wilson,
is also a director. It is alleged that the other officers and directors are mere servants and instruments of the defendants Arnold
and Wilson, and they created and organized the Castner Comft Mme.ns and contrivance to cheat and defraud the credpany

GEER v. MATHIESON ALKALI WORKS.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Couit.

itors and stockholders of the Mathieson Company by means of
the conveyance to the Castner Company. The conveyance is
set out in full. It recites that it is executed for and in consideration of one dollar, and other valuable considerations, and purports to convey certain patent rights and all of the property of
the Mathieson Company in the State of New York. The bill
also alleges the property conveyed was delivered to the Castner
Company, and it is in the possession thereof; that the patents
and property conveyed are "essentially necessary" to enable
the Mathieson Company to carry on the business for which it
was organized, and their conveyance in effect wholly destroys
the business of that corporation and renders its capital stock
utterly worthless, and deprives the creditors of the corporation,
of whom there then were and are a large number, and for a
large amount in the aggregate, of all remedy for the collection
of their debts. That the conveyance is ultra vires, and the defendant directors are trustees and agents of and for the stockholders, and had no power to convey away the property and
patents of the company essential to the carrying on of its business. And by reason of the facts alleged the defendant diredtors are unfit persons to have the charge and management of the
affairs of the company, and that a receiver of the corporation
should be appointed, and the defendants enjoined. That for the
reasons set forth plaintiffs have not applied to the defendant,
the Mathieson Company, to bring this action, being advised
that its directors "would not be proper persons to prosecute
an action in the name of the company, which was practically
an action to redress frauds they themselves had committed."
The specific relief asked is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. Wilam W. ffacFarlandfor appellants.
-Mr. Alfred Ely for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the facts as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts and arguments by which it is attempted to sustain the service on the Mathieson Company are the same as

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

were presented in the case of Conley v. The .Xathieson Alkali
Wlorks, decided fay 4 of this term, ante, p. 406. On the authority of that case the service in this must be held insufficient to give
of the
jurisdiction of the Miathieson Company, and the order
be
must
summons
of
Circuit Court setting aside the service
And
court.
that
to
affirmed if the case was properly removed
this depends upon the question whether the complaint exhibits
a separable controversy between the plaintiffs and the companies.
A suit may, consistently with the rules of pleading, embrace
U. S.
several distinct controversies. Barney v. Latham, 103
:
205, 212. It was said in 1yde v. Ruble 104 U. S. 409 "To
of
entitle a party to a removal under this clause (second clause
of
act
the
in
clause
second
as
same
1875,
of
act
section 2 of the
cause
1887) there must exist in the suit a separate and distinct
one
on
parties
necessary
the
all
which
to
of action in respect
other."
the
on
those
from
States
different
side are citizens of
U. S.
In other words, as expressed in Fraser v. Jennison, 106
parts,
into
separation
of
capable
one
be
191, 194, "the case must
so that, in one of the parts, a controversy will be presented
of
with citizens of one or more States on one side, and citizens
withdetermined
fully
be
can
other States on the other, which
it has
out the presence of any of the other parties to the suit as
are
action
of
causes
more
or
two
been begun." And when
on
suit
whole
the
of
removal
a
be
united in one suit there can
(now
defendants
or
plaintiffs
the
the petition of one or more of
if it
only the defendants) interested in the controversy, which
suRuble,
v.
Hyde
had been sued on alone would be removable.
applicaThe
187.
S.
U.
pra. See also Ayres v. Wiswall, 112
the
tion of these principles to the case at bar will be seen by
relief prayed for.
The relief prayed against the companies is as follows:
its
Against the Mathieson Company, that the conveyance in
be
same
the
that
name be adjudged fraudulent and void, and
its
that
annulled; that a receiver of its works be appointed;
of
disposition
directors be enjoined from making any further
in
disclosure
its property; that it be required to make a full
that
and
respect to all of the premises set forth and alleged,

GEER v. MATHIESON ALKALI WORKS.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the complainants have access to all books, records and papers,
including the stock book. Against the Castner Company, That
it may be required to account for all acts and doings in the
premises set forth; to make good and pay all of the damages
sustained by complainants to the Mathieson Company by
reason thereof ; that it be adjudged to reconvey the property so
wrongfully conveyed to it in the name of the Mathieson Company; that it account for and pay all of the income, earnings
and revenue of the property since the date of the conveyance.
To the relief asked against the companies were the directors
of the Mathieson Company necessary parties? In Winch v.
Berkenhead, Lancashire c Cheshire Railway Co., 5 De G. &
Sin. 562, it was held, in a suit by a stockholder of the corporation in behalf of himself and all other stockholders, to restrain
the performance of an ultra vires agreement, that it was not
necessary that the directors should be made parties. It was
said by the Vice Chancellor : "The act that is sought to be restrained is the act of the company. It is quite sufficient if there
is an order restraining the company. The company itself cannot act except by means of its officers. It appears to me that
the suit is properly framed, by the relief being sought against
the company alone."
HZatch v. The Chicago, Rock Island & PaciFcRalhroad Company, and The Same v. Same, 6 Blateh. 105, were suits brought
by the plaintiff in each in behalf of himself and all other stockholders of the defendant corporation, to restrain it from executing a contract which was alleged to be in excess of its powers.
The plaintiff was a citizen of New York. The suits were
brought in the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
The individual defendants were directors of the corporation
and resided in the State of New York, except one, who was a
citizen of the State of Illinois. In the second suit one Denham
was made a party, who was the treasurer of the company,
but not one of its directors. His citizenship does not appear.
The plaintiff in the second suit alleged that the committee of
directors had determined to close the transfer office of the company in the city of New York, and to remove all of its books,
moneys, securities and property beyond the jurisdiction of the
VOL. exc-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

court; that the defendants had refused to permit any transfer
of the shares of stock on the books of the company. Judgment was prayed in the first suit for an injunction against the
execution of the illegal contract, and of the acts which were
alleged to be contemplated in the performance thereof. In
the second suit judgment was prayed for the same injunction,
and an injunction against the other acts alleged. On the petition of Tracy and the company the cases were removed to
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, and
a motion was made to remand. The motion was heard by M r.
Justice Blatchford, who was then United States District Judge,
who said:
"These suits, therefore, are suits brought in the State of New
York, by Hatch, a citizen of New York, against the members
of the company, all of whom are citizens of the State which
created the company, and which is a State other than New
York, and against Tracy, a citizen of Illinois, and against other
defendants, who are citizens of New York."
And describing the suits, said further:
"All the relief that is prayed for in either suit is by injunction, except the prayer in the first suit for a receiver. All the
relief by injunction is prayed for in respect to all of the defendants. No such relief is prayed for in respect to any defendant, other than the company, that is not prayed for in respect
to the company. The suits are really, both of them, wholly
against the company alone. The directors and the treasurer,
who are its co-defendants, are merely its servants and agents,
through whom necessarily it acts. It was not necessary or
proper to make them parties to the suit at all. The injunctions
prayed for and the injunctions issued, if issued against the company alone, and served on any director, or on the treasurer,
would bind the person so served to obedience, and, even without such service, knowledge by the officer of the existence of
the injunction against the company, would bind the officer to
obedience. The People v. Stuwtevant, 5 Selden, 263, 277.
The directors and the treasurer are, therefore, not real parties
to the suits, but merely nominal parties. No personal demand
is made against any one of them, nor is any personal account-

GEER v. M]ATHIESON ALKALI WORKS.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing asked from any one of them, and it is onlyin his relation to
the company, and in the official position that he occupies toward the company, that any one of them is made a party.
The test of this is, that, if any one of the directors or the treasurer were to resign his office, he would necessarily cease, ip8o
facto, to be a proper party to the suit, and the plaintiff would be
obliged to make his successor in office a party, and so on with
every change. The reason for this would be, that, there being
no relief prayed against the individual in his individual capacity, and the injunction asked being to restrain him merely
from doing or not doing what his official relation to the company alone enables him to do, or to refrain from doing, when
such official relation ceases, the relief asked and the injunction
issued become, as to him, utterly futile. This would not be the
case where he was made a party defendant, jointly with the
corporation of which he was an officer, for the purpose of obtaining some specific relief against him on a personal liability,
or in order to obtain a discovery from him in regard to matters peculiarly within his knowledge. There, the dissolution of
his official relation would not affect the propriety of his being
retained as a defendant. This view is conclusive to show that
the entire real controversy in both suits, so far as it is shown
by the prayer of the complaints, and which is the only guide
the court can have, is between the plaintiff on the one side, and
the company, as a corporate body, on the other. The plaintiff cannot, by joining as nominal defendants with the corporation, persons who are citizens of the same State with the plaintiff, deprive the corporation of any right which it would otherwise have in respect to removing the cause into this court."
Heath v. The Erie Railway Company came up before the
same learned justice, and is reported in 8 Blatchford, 3471, 413,
It was a suit by stockholders against the railway company- and
Jay Gould, James Fisk, Jr., and Frederick A. Lane, who were
directors of the company. The object of the suit was to restrain ultra vires acts. The bill prayed for an injunction for a
receiver, for an accounting by Gould, Fisk and Lane of the profits made by them, and that they "make payment and compensation to the company, for the benefit of the plaintiffs, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

other bonajde shareholders, to the full extent of all such profits, benefits, gains and advantages, and of such damages, losses
and injuries." The bill was demurred to, on the ground, among
others, that the other directors, fourteen in number, were not
made parties to the bill. The court overruled the demurrer.
The main part of the opinion, which was very elaborate, is devoted to the consideration of the right of the stockholders to
maintain the suit, which right was sustained on the authority
of many cases. Of the ground of demurrer that the other directors had not been made parties, the court said:
"The objection that such fourteen persons ought to be made
parties, as appearing to have been directors when the bill was
filed, for the reason that the bill asks for an injunction against
the corporation, and for a receiver of the corporation, is not
well taken. The relief so asked is against the corporation. If
such fourteen persons were made parties, they would be merely
nominal parties and not real parties, in respect to any relief
that is asked against the corporation; and no relief is asked as
against them, except in respect to the matter of the classification, which has already been disposed of. This question was
fully considered in the case of Hatch v. The Chicago, Bock Island & Pacific R. R. Co., 6 Blatch. 0. C. R. 105, 114 to 116."
It was, however, said by Lord Cairns in Ferguson v. Wilson,
L. R. 2 Ch. 77, 90, and it was held in Clinch v. Financial Corporation, L. R. 4 Ch. 117, that it was proper in a suit by a stockholder to restrain ultra vires acts of a corporation to join as
defendants the directors of the corporation. This ruling is reconcilable with the other cases. The reconcilation lies in the
distinction between proper and indispensable parties in view of
the statute providing for the removal of causes to the Federal
courts. Barney v. _Latham, 103 U. S. 205, szra.
But relief is prayed against the individual defendants as follows:
"That the individual defendants, directors of the said Mathieson Alkali Works, may be compelled to account as agents and
trustees of the said company for all their acts and doings in the
premises above set forth; and that they may severally and
respectively be adjudged and required to make good and pay

STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.
190 U. S.

Syllabus.

to the said Mathieson Alkali Works and to the plaintiffs all loss
and damage caused by their wrongful conduct in the premises
as hereinabove set forth."
If it be conceded that in a suit which seeks such relief the
Mathieson Company is a necessary party, it is certain the Castner party is not. Besides the relief is distinct from-separable
from, to keep to the language of the cases-that which is sought
as a result of the grounds of suit against the companies.
It follows from these views that the bill exhibits a controversy
between the plaintiffs and the defendant companies, to which
the individual defendants are not necessary parties, and the case
was rightfully removed to the Circuit Court.
The order of the latter court setting aside the the service of
summons on the Mathieson Company, and dismissing the bill

for want of jurisdiction of that company, is
Aflrmd_

STANLY COUNTY v. COLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 264. Argued April 27, 28,1903.-Decided

June 1, 1903.

While as a general rule Federal courts will accept the interpretation put by
the courts of a State upon its own constitution and statutes, yet where the
law has not been definitely settled, it is the right and duty of Federal
courts to exercise their own judgment.
A presumption that the duty devolving upon the officers of a county of ascertaining the conditions upon which bonds of the county may be issued
was properly exercised should and does accompany and guarantee such
bonds.
County bonds issued under statutes and sections of the Code of North Carolina which permit bonds to be issued to enable counties to subscribe to
stock when necessary to aid in the completion of any railroad in which
citizens of the county may have an interest, held to be valid notwithstanding that the Supreme Court of the State had decided in another action
that such bonds were invalid.

