TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. v. WATSON.
Syllabus.

190 U. S.

stances, we do not think a formal modification of the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is required; and that decree is
therefore

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissents.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. WATSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 223. Argued and submitted March 20, 1903.-Decided May 4, 1903.

In an action to recover value of cotton burned while stored on a platform
near a railroad track held, there was no error in admitting evidence:
1. That about the time of the fire and the passing of the locomotive which
it was charged occasioned the fire, other fires were observed near the
track and the cotton. Grand Trunk R. Co. v. Bichardson, 91 U. S. 454.
2. In view of the condition of the record, that certain witnesses did not
know of, and saw, no opportunity for the cotton to have caught fire except from the locomotive in question.
3. In answer to a hypothetical question to a witness duly qualified as an
expert, as to whether the number of fires indicated the condition of the
locomotive and the spark arresters.
4. By reading the deposition of a witness who was in court, but who it appeared was afterwards called by the defendant and testified as to the
evidence in the deposition, the error if any not being sufficiently grave
to require a reversal of the case. Also held:
5. That on the evidence as it appeared on the record, it was properly left
to the jury to determine if the company used the best spark arrester and
the plaintiff was free from contributery negligence, the jury being also
instructed that the verdict must be for the company if it did use the
best spark arrester, at the time in good condition, and operated the locomotive with ordinary prudence.
6. That it was not necessary to charge the jury that in placing the cotton
on the platform the plaintiff assumed risks which were to be anticipated
from engines properly equipped and operated, as that was to be deduced
from the charge as made.
7. That the plaintiff was not bound by stipulations in the lease of the platform from the railroad company to the lessee, it appearing that the plaintiff was not in privity with the lessee and had no knowledge of sucU
ptipul~tions,

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Counsel for Parties.

190 U. S.

THIS action was originally commenced in a Texas state court
by the appellee Watson, to recover the value of sixty-four
bales of cotton, less insurance thereon. The cotton was alleged to have been destroyed by fire on January 3, 1896, while
stored upon what was known as the O'Neil cotton platform
near the depot of the railway company at Clarksville, Red
River County, Texas. The fire was averred to have been
occasioned by the negligence of the railway company in the
use of a defectively constructed locomotive and in the careless
operation thereof while passing said platform. Subsequently
the insurance company was joined as plaintiff and recovery
was asked of the full value of the cotton. Upon application of
the defendant, based upon the fact that it was incorporated
under the laws of the United States, the cause was removed to
the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Texas. In the latter court an amended answer was filed. This
pleading contained general and special demurrers, a general
denial and a special answer setting up various defences. The
general and special demurrers were subsequently overruled,
and defendant excepted. A trial was had, and it was shown
by the evidence that at the point where the fire in question occurred the track of the railway company ran east and west,
and the train which it was asserted caused the fire in question
was moving eastward, and a strong wind was blowing from
the north. A verdict was rendered in favor of the plaintiff
Watson and against the railroad and against the plaintiff insurance company in favor of the railroad. Judgment was
entered on the verdict; the judgment was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 112 Fed. Rep.
402, and the cause was then brought to this court by writ of
error.
Argued by .Mr. .David D. Duncan for plaintiff in error.
J'r. John F Dillon and Mr. Winslow S. Piercewee on the
brief.
Submitted by Mr. J. W. Bailey, Mr. E. S. Chambers and
.Mr.Amos I. Beaty.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. v. WATSON.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

M . JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The various assignments of error relied upon in the brief of
counsel for plaintiff in error will be disposed of in the order
therein discussed.
First. In several assignments it is claimed that the Circuit
Court of Appeals erred in holding that the trial court properly
admitted the evidence of witnesses to the effect that at or about
the time of the fire complained of, and about the time of the
passing of the locomotive which it was charged occasioned the
fire, the witnesses observed other fires at various points not
far removed from the place where the cotton was burned and
south of and near to the railway track. In the light of the
decision of this court in GrandTrunk RailroadCo. v. Richardson) 91 U. S. 454, 4-70, we think this evidence was competent as
having a tendency to establish that the destruction of the property of the plaintiff was caused by the locomotive in question,
and as tending to show negligence in its construction or operation.
Second. In an assignment of error it was contended that the
appellate court erred in holding that the trial court properly
admitted testimony to the effect that certain witnesses did not
know of and saw no opportunity for the cotton to have caught
fire except from the locomotive in question. The evidence in
the record is in narrative form, and that portion relating to the
criticized testimony merely recites that at the time said evidence
was offered from each witness "defendant then and there objected, because the evidence was of a negative character and
would not be relevant, and further because it was in the nature
of a conclusion of the witness to the effect that the fire had
Whether the question which
originated from the engine."
elicited the testimony complained of was objectionable cannot
be determined from the record, nor does the objection seem to
have been addressed to an omission to state the facts which
induced the belief that no other opportunity existed for the
cotto i to have caught fire than was afforded by the operation
of the locomotive. Evidence of the surrounding circumstances
VOL. CXC-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

and conditions which by a process of exclusion would have
tended to establish that the burning of the cotton could not
have been caused other than by the locomotive in question
would, we think, have been clearly relevant. As the record
stands we think the assignment in question was without merit.
Third. A further contention is that the appellate court erred
in permitting a question to be answered despite the objection
that "the evidence sought to be elicted was not such as was
the subject of expert testimony, but the endeavor was to substitute a conclusion of the witness for that of the jury, and it
was not allowable by a hypothetical question, such as this and
the answer thereto, to prove the bad equipment of the engine
in the face of the actual testimony that the equipment was all
in good order." The following is the question referred to:
"Suppose an engine should come along, and in the course of
four miles and a quarter should set out say, eight fires, should
set fire to the grass in some of these places, set fire to shavings
sixty feet from the right of way, set cotton on fire, and that
live cinders could be seen falling and did fall and smoked after
falling on the ground over the work benches and things and
over platforms, would you say there was anything wrong
about the operation or construction of that engine, or would
you say it was all right; and suppose, instead of being eight
fires, there were five under the conditions named to you, what
would you say ?"
The question was proper. The witness was foreman of the
boiler department at the main shops of the defendant, having
to do with the building of boilers, and was in special control of
the part of the shops which had to do with spark arresters.
The hypothetical question was based upon evidence, and if the
witness was competent-as the evidence showed he was-to
testify whether or not an engine so conducting itself was or
was not in good working order or properly operated, we think
the jury should have had the benefit of his opinion. Inasmuch
as there was evidence to the effect that it is impossible, even with
the use of the most effective spark arresters, to prevent the escape of sparks, a case was presented justifying the introduction
of expert testimony to aid the jury in determining the ultimate

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. v. WATSON.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fact whether an engine was in good repair and properly operated which conducted itself as the evidence tended to show this
locomotive did. Trangortation Line v. Hope, 95 U. S. 297,
298.
Fourth. It is asserted that the appellate court erred in holding that prejudicial error was not committed in permitting the
deposition of a witness to be read when the witness was actually
in court and his presence was known to the plaintiff. We
adopt as our own the language of the Circuit Court of Appeals
on this point:
"In view of the fact that the witness was called by the defendant after the deposition had been admitted over the defendant's objection, and gave fully his explanation of the deposition
and his testimony as to the subject to which it related, we conclude that the error committed is not sufficiently grave in its
results to require us to reverse the case."
Fifth. It is claimed that the appellate court erred in holding
that the trial court rightly left it to the jury to determine that
if the railway company failed to use the most approved spark
arrester, and plaintiff was free from contributory negligence, he
could recover. This contention is based upon the assumption
that there was no evidence tending to show that the most approved spark arrester was not used. We do not pause to analyze the evidence on the subject, because we think it not necessary to do so. The proposition, considering it in the light most
favorable for the plaintiff in error, is but an abstraction, and
assumes that because it may be that at one time the spark arrester was of the most approved pattern it continued to be such,
even although it was not in good repair at the time of the fire
and such defective condition occasioned the loss complained of.
The court instructed that the jury must give a verdict for the
railroad if it was found that it " did use the most approved
spark arrester, at the time in good condition, and that the engine was then and there operated with ordinary care and prudence ;" and, in stating the converse of the proposition, said:
"But if the railroad failed to use the most approved spark arrester and apparatus connected with the engine as in ordinary
use by properly conducted railways to prevent the escape of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

fire, in so far as it could consistently be done with the business"
which the railroad was carrying on, a verdict should be returned
against the railroad, provided it was found that the plaintiff
Watson had not contributed to the injury. This charge as a
whole we think is not amenable to the objection that it left to
the jury to consider the original construction of the spark arrester, irrespective of its condition at the time of the fire. The
expression, "as ordinarily used by properly conducted railways," of necessity implied that the apparatus must have been
kept in proper condition for use. To construe to the contrary
would presuppose that conflicting measures of liability were
given to the jury by the court when it pointed out the opposing
views which the jury were authorized to deduce from the proof.
Thus rightly construing the charge, there was beyond peradventure evidence to be weighed by the jury in determining
whether the spark arrester was or was not in satisfactory working order at the time the cotton was set on fire. Several witnesses testified that the engine emitted considerable fire and
cinders, and the evidence upon which the hypothetical question
quoted in subdivision third of this opinion was based clearly
rebuts the assumption that there was not evidence of circumstances to be considered by the jury in connection with the
evidence introduced by the defendant of the condition of the
engine, spark arrester, etc., as disclosed by an inspection thereof.
So, also, the answer to the hypothetical question clearly contained matter pertinent for the consideration of the jury in determining whether the engine was properly equipped and operated. The witness said:
"An engine that will do as you have stated is doing something unusual, very unusual. If there was dry and combustible
material close to the track a spark from the ash pan might drop
among it and set fire. What you said might have occurred, but
it would be very unusual. I could not say that there would be
anything wrong in the operation of the engine, but there might
have been something deranged about the ash pan, is the only
way I could account for it. If the engine did set out sparks in
the manner stated by you, I cannot believe that the engine was
in quite perfect condition."

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. v. WATSON.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Sixth. A further assignment of error is to the effect that the
appellate court erred in holding that error was not committed
in refusing to charge the jury that plaintiff in placing his cotton upon the platform assumed the risks which were to be anticipated from engines properly equipped with appliances for
preventing the escape of sparks and properly operated, and in
saying to them that contributory negligence and assumed risk
amount to the same thing. But the court charged the jury that
even though the cotton was set on fire by sparks communicated
from the engine, yet if the defendant used the most approved
spark arrester and the engine was operated with ordinary care
and prudence, the plaintiff could not recover. As the court
also fully instructed the jury as to what would have constituted
contributory negligence on the part of Watson as respected the
storing of his cotton on the platform, and informed the jury
that recovery could not be had if there was such contributory
negligence, it is quite clear that the jury could not have been
misled by the failure of the trial court to point out the distinction
between assumed risk and contributory negligence. It is not
perceived, for instance, how the jury could have been aided in
reaching a conclusion if, in addition to being informed that the
plaintiff could not recover if the railway company was not negligent in respect to the equipment and operation of the engine,
they were told that the plaintiff "assumed the risks which were
to be anticipated from engines properly equipped with appliances
for preventing the escape of sparks, and properly operated."
Seventh. The remaining assignment of error is to the effect
that error was committed by the appellate court in affirming the
judgment despite the fact that the trial court refused to admit in
evidence the stipulations and exemptions from liability for loss
caused by fire contained in the lease under which the lessee held
possession and occupancy of the storage platform on which the
cotton in question was when destroyed by fire. As Watson was
not in privity with the lessee-and it is conceded he had no knowledge of such stipulations when he stored his property on the
platform-there was no tenable ground on which to contend that
he was in anywise bound by the stipulations in question.
Judgment afftrmed.

