RANDOLPH v. SCRUGGS.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

RANDOLPH v.SCRUGGS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXT'
CIRCUIT.
No.272. Argued April 23, 24, 1903.-Decided May 18, 1903.
1. A claim for professional services rendered to a bankrupt in the preparation of a general assignment, valid under the law of the State where made,
is not entitled to be paid as a preferential claim out of the estate in the
hands of a trustee in bankruptcy when the adjudication in involuntary
bankruptcy was made within four months after the making of the assignment and the assignment was set aside as in contravention of the
bankrupt law.
2. A claim for professional advice and legal services rendered such an assignee prior to the adjudication of bankruptcy against the assignor, the assignment providing that the costs and expenses of administering the trust
should be first paid, is not entitled under the deed to be proven as a preferential claim against the bankrupt estate, but so far as the assignee
would be allowed for payment of the claim, it may be preferred in the
right of the assignee.
3. On the facts in this case a claim against such an assignee for legal services rendered at his employment in resisting an adjudication of involuntary bankruptcy against the assignor is not allowable as a preferential
claim, when the necessary effect of the adjudication would be to set aside
the assignment under which the assignee was acting.
4. The claim for services to the assignor for the preparation of the deed of
trust to the assignee may be proved in the bankruptcy proceedings as an
unsecured claim.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Xr. William -M. ]?ando~ph, Mr. George Randolph and -Mr.
Wassell Rando1h for appellants.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
The certificate in this case is as follows: ,
"This is an appeal from the District Court for the Western
District of Tennessee, sitting as a court of bankruptcy, disal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

lowing a claim filed by the appellants against the bankrupt
estate exceeding five hundred dollars in amount. From the
transcript of the record it appears:
"(1.) That the Langstaff Hardware Company is a mercantile
corporation, organized under the general law of Tennessee,
providing for the organization of such corporations, which was
engaged in carrying on a general hardware business at Memphis, in the Western District of Tennessee.
"(2.) Being embarrassed, it, on the 13th day of August,
1900, made a general deed of assignment, under the general
assignment law of Tennessee, by which it conveyed to one C.
W. Griffith, as assignee, all its corporate property of every
kind, for the equal benefit of all its creditors. The assignee
accepted the trust and qualified by executing bond and taking
the oath prescribed by the Tennessee statute, and entered into
possession of all the assigned estate. This deed of assignment
provided that the assignee should pay ' reasonable counsel and
attorneys' fees for preparing this deed and for.advice and
service to be furnished and rendered him in the course of the
administration of the trust hereby created.' Within four
months after this deed of assignment the Langstaff Hardware
Company, upon a petition by its creditors, was adjudicated a
bankrupt, and this deed set aside as in contravention of the
bankrupt law. A trustee was duly chosen, who has taken
possession of the assigned assets of the bankrupt.
"(3.) The appellants filed a claim against the bankrupt
estate for professional services rendered the bankrupt in preparing the said deed of general assignment, and the assignee
thereunder in advising and counseling him in respect of his
duties and in defending a suit brought to wind up the corporation in a state chancery court, and for services rendered the
assignee in resisting the adjudication of bankruptcy.
"The items of this claim were as follows:
(a.) For servicesr endered the corporation in pre. $500 00
.
paring the general assignment
(b.) For general advice and counsel to the assignee
250 00
in respect to the duties of his trust

RANDOLPH v. SCRUGGS.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

(c.) For legal services in defence of a suit brought
in a state court wherein it was sought to
have the corporation wound up as an insolvent corporation, and its assets distributed under the orders and decrees of the
$100 00

court

(d.) For services rendered by employment of the
assignee in resisting an adjudication of
bankruptcy against the Langstaff Hardware Company

.

300 00

"The appellants asserted and claimed that each of said
items constituted a prior charge upon the assets and asked to
have same paid by the trustee in preference to the unsecured
creditors. The trustee and certain creditors excepted to each
item of this account.
"The referee, upon the evidence, found and certified that
the services had been rendered as claimed and were reasonably
worth the amount claimed, but that the same did not constitute expenses allowable as a preference and were not otherwise
a lien. He allowed the item of $500.00 as an unsecured claim
against the bankrupt, but disallowed the other items as not
being debts of the bankrupt. His order was duly excepted to
and the questions certified to the court in due form. The district judge sustained the referee so far as he held the claim to
be non-preferential and adjudged that none of the items constituted a debt, provable for any purpose against the bankrupt
estate. From this judgment the appellants have appealed and
assigned error.
"Upon this state of facts this court desires the instruction
of the Supreme Court, that it may properly decide the questions of law thus arising:
"(1.) Is a claim for professional services rendered to a bankrupt corporation in the preparation of a general assignment,
valid under the law of Tennessee, entitled to be paid as a preferential claim out of the estate of the corporation in the hands
of a trustee in bankruptcy, when the corporation was adjudicated an involuntary bankrupt within four months after the

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

making of the assignment, and the assignment set aside as in
contravention of the bankrupt law ?
"(2.) Is a claim for professional advice and legal services
rendered such an assignee, prior to an adjudication of bankruptcy against the assignor, the assignment providing that the
costs and expenses of administering the trust should be first
paid, entitled to be proven as a preferential claim against the
bankrupt estate?
"(3.) Is a claim against such an assignee for legal services
rendered at his employment in resisting an adjudication of involuntary bankruptcy against the assignor allowable as a preferential claim when the necessary effect of the adjudication
would be to set aside the assignment under which the assignee
was acting?
"(4.) If not entitled to be allowed as preferential claims,
may either of the items described in the foregoing questions
be proven as unsecured debts of the bankrupt corporation?"
It is admitted that a general assignment for the benefit of
creditors, made within four months from the filing of a petition
in bankruptcy, is void as against the trustee in bankruptcy, so
far as it interferes with his administering the property assigned.
This could not be denied.
lrest Company v. Lea, 174 U. S.
590, 595; Boese v. King, 108 U. S. 379, 385; Bryan v. Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188. It hardly is necessary to discuss
whether such an assignment should be held to be embraced in
the express avoidance of conveyances made with intent to
hinder, delay or defraud creditors in ยง 67 e, of the bankruptcy
law. It is possible to say that constructively a general assignment falls under that description. Tn re Gutwillig, 90 Fed.
Rep. 475 ; S. 0., 92 Fed. Rep. 337; Davis v. Bole, 92 Fed.
Rep. 325. One ground for such a construction would be that
making the assignment is declared an act of bankruptcy by
ยง 3. As it could not have been intended that the very conveyance which warranted putting the grantor into bankruptcy
should withdraw all his property from distribution there, it
seems sufficient to rely upon the necessarily implied effect of
ยง 3. At all events, if such a conveyance be called constructively fraudulent, it would be severe to deduce consequences as

RANDOLPH v. SCRUGGS.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the validity of the appellants' claim from that circumstance
alone.
The assignment was not illegal. It was permitted by the law
of the State, and cannot be taken to have been prohibited by
the bankruptcy law absolutely in every event, whether proceedings were instituted or not. In re Sievers, 91 Fed. Rep.
366; In re Romanow, 92 Fed. Rep: 510. It had no general
fraudulent intent. It was voidable only in case bankruptcy
proceedings should be begun. At the time when it was made
the institution of such proceedings was uncertain. It seems to
us that it would be a hard and subtle construction to say, as
seems to have been thought in Bartlett v. Br"amhall, 3 Gray,
2511, 260, that when they were instituted they not only avoided
the assignment but made it illegal by relation back to its date,
when, if they had not been started, it would have remained perfectly good. No doubt the corporation had notice of the
bankruptcy law, but it could not go into bankruptcy by voluntary petition, and there is no objection to a debtor's distributing his property equally among his creditors of his own motion, if bankruptcy proceedings do not intervene. The view
we take is that which has been taken by state decisions with
reference to similar questions raised by creditors or under
state insolvent laws. Biglow v. Baldwin, 1 Gray, 245, 2417;
Wkite v. Hill, 148 Massachusetts, 396; Clark v. Sawyer, 151
Massachusetts, 64; Wakeman v. G'over, 4 Paige, 23, 43; S. C.,
11 Wend 187, 226. See also -fMayer v. Hellman, 91 U. S. 496,
500, 501.
The appellants do not stop here, however, but argue that the
avoidance of the voluntary assignment goes only to the administration of the property and not to the title; that the trustee
simply succeeds the privately chosen assignee in the administration of the trust under the deed. Of course the object of
this contention is to uphold the provision in favor of the appellants for preparing the deed and for service to be rendered
the assignee. It does not seem to us to need much argument
to show that this artificial refinement cannot stand. If by declaring the assignment an act of bankruptcy, the statute means
that the conveyance shall not be effectual against the bank-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

ruptcy proceedings, as is agreed, the natural and simple construction is that it means that the deed shall be avoided as a
whole when the trustee takes the goods. The cases which we
have cited and others under insolvent and bankruptcy laws
evidently take that view. It follows that the appellants can
assert no preference by way of lien under the deed.
It does not follow, however, from the avoidance of the deed
that the service of preparing it did not raise a valid debt. There
is no sufficient reason why it should not when once it is decided
that the service for which the debt is alleged was lawful when it
was rendered. 1n 'e Lains, 16 N. B. R. 168, 170.
The more difficult question is how to deal with the services
rendered to the voluntary assignee. The claim for them must
be worked out through the assignee, and cannot be put higher
than his claim for allowances, supposing that they had been
paid. We may assume that there is no question of form before
us, and that whatever the appellants properly might have been
paid by the assignee they may prove for now. See Central
Railroadc Banking Co. of Georgia v. Pettus, 113 U. S. 116,
124, 125; 3/ason v. Pomeroy, 151 Massaehusetts, 164, 167. But
Jt has been held that the assignee, even of a corporation, cannot
be allowed anything for his services before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy. See e. g., In 're Peter Paul Book Co., 104
Fed. Rep. 786. So far as this opinion rests on constructive
fraud we have indicated above that it does not command our
assent. The case would be different if the assignee were party
to an actual fraud. Rastings v. Syenser, I Curtis, 504, 507;
Smith v. Wise, 132 N. Y. 172, 178; Perry-.Mason,Shoe Co. v.
Sykes, 72 Mississippi, 390, 401. But the assignee is acting lawfully in what he does before proceedings in bankruptcy are begun, and although it may be assumed that the avoidance of the
assignment relates back to the date of the deed, still so far as
his services, or services procured by him, tend to the preservation or benefit of the estate the mere fiction of relation is not
enough to forbid an allowance for them. See Lynch v. Bernal,
9 Wall. 315, 325, 326. This is the doctrine of the state courts
with reference to the operation of insolvent laws upon voluntary assignments and of the better considered decisions under

RANDOLPH v. SCRUGGS.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the bankrupt laws. Platt v. Archer, 13 Blatchf. 351; Have'meyer v. Loeb, 5 Abb. N. C. 338, 345; .Macdonaldv. _Moore, 15
N. B. R. 26; TVald v. Wehl, 6 Fed. Rep. 163, 169; H unker v.
Bing, 9 Fed. Rep. 277; In re Ezrth, 17 N. B. R. 573; In re
S&holtz, 106 Fed. Rep. 834; White v. Hill, 148 Massachusetts,
396; OZark v. Sawyer, 151 Massachusetts, 64:; Wakeman v.
Grover, 4 Paige, 23, 43; S. C., 11 Wend. 187; Collumb v. Read,
24 N. Y. 505, 515; T. T. Haydock Carriage Co. v. Pier, 78
Wisconsin, 579; Perry-fason Shoe Co. v. Sykes, 72 Mississippi,
390. See Williams v. Gibbes, 20 How. 535; Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527, 532; Thompson v. _Phenix Is. (o., 136
U. S. 287, 294,295; Woodruf v. New York, Lake Erie & Western Railroad,129 N. Y. 27. If beneficial services axe allowed
for they are to be regarded as deductions from the property
which the assignee is required to surrender, and in that way
they gain a preference. Platt v. Archer; In re Scholtz ; White
v. Hill; Clark v. Sawyer, ubi supra.
We are not prepared to go further than to allow compensation for services which were beneficial to the estate. Beyond
that point we must throw the risk of his conduct on the assignee, as he was chargeable with knowledge of what might
happen.
It does not appear how far the services to the assignee were
beneficial. Therefore the questions of the Circuit Court of
Appeals cannot be answered in full. But the principles as to
which it desired instruction may be stated sufficiently for the
disposition of the case upon a subsequent finding of facts. None
of the claims is entitled to preference under the deed. The
charge for the preparation of the assignment properly may be
proved as an unpreferred debt of the bankrupt. The services
to the voluntary assignee may be allowed so far as they
benefited the estate, and inasmuch as he would be allowed a
lieu on the property if he had paid the sum allowed, the appellants may stand in his shoes and may be preferred to that
extent. No ground appears for allowing the item for services
in resisting an adjudication of bankruptcy. See Plattv. Archer,
13 Blatchf. 351, 354; Perry-Mfason Shoe Co. v. Sykes, 72 Miss-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

issippi, 390, 398; T. T. Haydock Carriage Co. v. Pier,18 Wisconsin, 579, 582; Clark v. Sawyer, 151 Massachusetts, 64.
We answer the questions as follows: (1.) No. (2.) Not
under the deed, but so far as the assignee would be allowed for
payment of the claim, the claim may be preferred in the right
of the assignee. (3.) Not on the facts appearing in the certificate. (4.) The charge for the preparation of the deed may be
proved as an unsecured claim.
Certificate accordingly.

GLOBE REFINING COMPANY v. LANDA

COTTON

OIL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 241.

Submitted April 16, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

In case of a breach of contract a person can only be held responsible for
such consequences as may be reasonably supposed to be in contemplation of the parties at the time of making the contract, and mere notice
to a seller of some interest or probable action of the buyer is not enough
necessarily and as matter of law to charge the seller with special damage
on that account if he fails to deliver the goods.
Where the amount of damages for breach of contract is made to appear to
be more than 52000, the judge of the Circuit Court may, on exceptions
properly taken, try the question of jurisdiction separately and if the damages have been purposely and fraudulently magnified he may dismiss the
cause. The grounds upon which he bases his decision are reviewable in
this court.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Sul'mitted by Mr. C. T. Odgen and .Xr'. J. D. Guinn for
plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Air. JUSTICE

HOLmES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of contract brought by the plaintiff in error,

