MONTGOMERY v. PORTLAND.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

MONTGOMERY v. PORTLAND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 47. Argued April 9,1903.-Decided May 18,1903.
While section 12 of the act of Congress of September 19, 1890, forbade the
construction or extension of piers, wharves, bulkheads, or other works,
beyond the harbor lines established under the direction of the Secretary
of War, in navigable waters of the United States, "except under such
regulations as may be prescribed from time to time by him" it does not
follow that Congress intended in such matters to disregard altogether the
wishes of the local authorities. Under existing enactments the right of
private persons to erect structures in a navigable water of the United
States that is entirely within the limits of a State is not complete and
absolute without the concurrent or joint assent of both the Federal
government and the state government. Cummings v. City of Chicago, 188
U. S. 410, and Willamette Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1, followed.

THIs writ of error brings up for review the final decree in a
suit instituted in one of the courts of Oregon by the City of
Portland and Port of Portland against James B. Montgomery,
who died during the progress of the cause, and was succeeded
as defendant by his executrix, the present plaintiff in error.
The principal question in the case is whether, under the circumstances to be presently stated, Montgomery, as owner of
land situated within the limits of Portland on the Willamette
River, had the right to extend his wharves into the river beyond certain harbor lines established in 1892.
The City of Portland was authorized by its charter to regulate the building of wharves within its limits and to establish a
line beyond which wharves should not be built nor piles driven.
That provision was in force on and after February 19, 1891.
By an act of the Oregon Legislature of February 18, 1891,
the inhabitants of the Port of Portland were created a corporation "to so improve the Willamette River at the cities of Portland, East Portland and Albina, and the Willamette and Columbia Rivers between said cities and the sea, as that there shall
be made and permanently maintained in said Willamette River

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

at said cities and in the said Willamette and Columbia Rivers
between said cities and the sea a ship channel of good and sufficient width and having a depth at all points at mean low
water both at said cities and between said cities and the sea, of
not less than twenty-five feet." And so far as was necessary
to carry out that object, the corporation was given full control
of those rivers at those cities and between them and the sea, to
the fall extent that the State could grant the same, and was
authorized to remove such obstructions from them and erect
such works in them as were found necessary or convenient in
creating and maintaining the required channel. The power so
conferred was to be exercised by a Board of Commissioners.
Such a Board had been appointed and organized prior to the
institution of this suit.
A copy of the act incorporating the Port of Portland was
sent to the Secretary of War, "who approved the same," and
the work done by that Port in improving the Willamette and
Columbia Rivers was conducted in conjunction with the United
States engineers in charge of those rivers, and who acted under
instructions from the Secretary of War. The engineers annually reported to the Secretary the nature and amount of such
work.
By the River and Harbor Act of July 13, 1892, amending
the seventh section of the River and Harbor Act of September 19, 1890, it was provided:
That it shall not be lawful to build any wharf, pier,
"§
dolphin, boom, dam, weir, breakwater, bulkhead, jetty or structure of any kind outside established harbor lines, or in any
navigable waters of the United States where no harbor lines
are or may be established, without the permission of the Secretary of War, in any port, roadstead, haven, harbor, navigable
river, or other waters of the United States, in such manner as
shall obstruct or impair navigation, commerce, or anchorage of
said waters; and it shall not be lawful hereafter to commence
the construction of any bridge, bridge draw, bridge piers and
abutments, causeway, or other works over or in any port, road,
roadstead, haven, harbor, navigable river or navigable waters
of the United States, under any act of the legislative assembly
'7.

MONTGOMERY v. PORTLAND.
190 U. S.

statement of the Case.

of any State, until the location and plan of such bridge or other
works have been submitted to and approved by the Secretary
of War, or to excavate or fill, or in any manner to alter or
modify the course, location, condition or capacity of any port,
roadstead, haven, harbor, harbor of refuge, or inclosure within
the limits of any breakwater, or of ihe channel of any navigable water of the United States, unless approved and authorized by the Secretary of War: Provided, That this section
shall not apply to any bridge, bridge draw, bridge piers and
abutments the construction of which has been heretofore duly
authorized by law, or be so construed as to authorize the construction of any bridge, draw bridge, bridge piers and abutments or other works under an act of the legislature of any
State, over or in any stream, port, roadstead, haven or harbor
or other navigable water not wholly within the limits of such
State." 26 Stat. 454; 27 Stat. 88, 110.
"§ 12. That section 12' of the River and Harbor Act of
August eleventh, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, be
amended and re6nacted so as to read as follows:
"Where it is made manifest to the Secretary of War that
the establishment of harbor-lines is essential to the preservation
and protection of harbors, he may, and is hereby authorized,
to cause such lines to be established, beyond which no piers,
wharves, bulk-heads or other works shall be extended or deposits
made, except under such regulations as may be prescribed
from time to time by him; and any person who shall wilfully
violate the provisions of this section, or any rule or regulation
made by the Secretary of War in pursuance of this section,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction
thereof, shall be punished -by a fine not exceeding one thousand
dollars, or imprisonment not exceeding one year, at the discretion
of the court for each offence." 26 Stat. 426, 455.
I SEc. 12. Where it is made manifest to the Secretary of War that the
establishment of harbor lines is essential to the preservation and protection of harbors, he may, and is hereby, authorized to cause such lines to
be established, beyond which no piers or wharves shall be extended or
deposits made except under such regulations as may be prescribed from
time to time by him." 25 Stat. 400, 425, c. 860.

OCTOBER TERMr, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

On the 9th day of August, 1892, the Secretary of War, proceeding-so the finding of facts states-under section twelve of
the act of 1890, caused certain harbor lines to be established
in the Willamette River within the limits of Portland. And by
an ordinance adopted December 12, 1892, the Common Council of the city adopted as its wharf lines the harbor lines so
established.
On or about May 21, 1898, Montgomery applied to the
Secretary of War to have the above harbor lines relocated or
located farther out in front of certain water lots belonging to
him, his complaint being that, as established in 1892, those lines
were too far inland. By order of the Secretary a public hearing was had on this application. A number of the leading
business men of Portland attended and made protests against
the proposed relocation. An account of this meeting, with all
the papers relating to it, was sent to the Chief of Engineers,
who made a report to the Secretary of War favorable to Montgomery's application. A map accompanied that report, showing the proposed new line. Under date of September 23, 1898,
Mr. Meiklejohn, Acting Secretary of War, approved Montgomery's application and assented to the proposed change or
relocation of the harbor line.
Having been notified by the local United States engineer
that the War Department had approved the new line, Montgomery began the construction of a wharf by the driving of piles
partly outside of the line of 1892 and in front of his lots, but
wholly inside of the relocated line as indicated on the above
map. He did not drive any piles or place any obstruction in
the river outside of the relocated line.
On or about November 2,1898, the Board of Commissioners of
the Port took official action about the new line and Montgomery's
construction of wharves beyond the line of 1892. They declared
of record that the extension of wharves into the river outside of
the line of 1892 would greatly damage the Port and its shipping
interests, and they ordered Montgomery and those acting
under him to cease the construction of any wharf beyond that
line and at once to remove any piling or other obstruction that
he may have placed in the river in front of his property and

MONTGOMERY v. PORTLAND.
190 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

beyond such wharf line. Subsequently, on November 23, 1898,
the Port Commissioners took further action and declared that
the wharf proposed by said Montgomery would interfere with
the navigation of the river by creating shoal places in its now
navigable waters and obstruct the work of making and maintaining a channel in the river twenty-five feet in depth, as provided
for in the act incorporating the Port of Portland.
Of this action by the local authorities Montgomery and those
in his employment were notified in writing.
The suit was brought to prevent the continuance of the work
upon which Montgomery entered. The defendant resisted the
relief asked and insisted that the action of the Secretary of War
gave him complete authority to proceed despite any objections
urged by the City and Port of Portland. The defence was
sustained by a decree of the court of original jurisdiction and
the bill was dismissed. But that decree was reversed by the
Supreme Court of Oregon, its conclusions of law being: That
the wharf lines established on the 12th day of December, 1892,
were then, and ever since have been, the legal and authorized
wharf lines of the Port of Portland; and that the respondent
had no right to drive piles or extend any wharf beyond the
wharf lines so established. The respondent, her attorneys,
agents, servants, and employ~s were by a final order enjoined
from driving piles or putting any structure in the river outside
of the wharf lines so established, and commanded to remove all
piles driven or structures of any description. erected therein, beyond said wharf lines. Portland v. Montgomery, 38 Oregon,
215.

.Ab. John H. .ithell for plaintiff in error.
As to thelepadings. The facts stated in the bill of complaint
are insufficient to constitute a cause of suit.
I. The bill of complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of suit in this, that there is no proper averment,
either that the wharf being constructed by the respondent,
Montgomery, is or ever will be any obstruction whatever to the
navigation, or other use of the harbor, or that such wharf is or
ever will be a public nuisance, or that its construction as pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

190 U. S.

posed will in any manner, or to any extent, interfere with the
work of the Port of Portland in improving such harbor.
The objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of suit is not waived by failure to
demur, and this objection may be taken advantage of in the
Appellate Court. Hi]l's Annotated Laws of Oregon, vol. 1,
sec. 71, p. 210; Br'own v. Emerson, 3 Oregon, 452; Earts v.
Steger, 5 Oregon, 147; Mack v. Salem, 6 Oregon, 275; Olds v.
Carey, 13 Oregon, 362; Caldwell v. Ruddy, 1 Idaho, N. S.
760; Willits v. Malter, 32 Oregon, 411.
II. The court below had no jurisdiction of this cause, for the
reason that the bill of complaint does not state facts sufficient
to confer jurisdiction upon a court of equity. The court below,
therefore, did not err in dismissing appellant's bill, and this objection is not waived by failure to demur. Hill's Annotated
Laws, vol. 1, sec. 71, p. 210, and authorities, supra.
III. The defendant, plaintiff in error here, was entitled to
judgment on the pleadings, dismissing the plaintiff's bill of
complaint for the reason that no replication whatever was filed
by the plaintiffs to the further and separate answer of the defendant setting up new matter. Therefore all the material
averments in such separate answer must be taken as admitted
by the plaintiffs to be true, and these admissions entitle the defendant to a decree dismissing the plaintiff's bill.
On themerit. I. By article 1, section 8, clause 3 of the Constitution of the United States, a grant of power is given to
Congress "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and
among the several States, and with the Indian tribes."
This clause of the Constitution, which confers upon Congress
the power to regulate commerce among the several States,
leaves to the States, in the absence of Congressional legislation,
the power to regulate matters of local interest, which affect
international and interstate commerce only incidentally; butthe
power of Congress over commerce with foreign nations and
interstate commerce is exclusive whenever the matter is national in character, and admits of a uniform system or plan of
regulation.
In other words, as to those subjects of commerce which are

•MONTGOMERY v. PORTLAND.
190 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

local or limited in their nature or sphere of operation, such as the
erection of bridges, the establishment of harbor lines in harbors,
etc., the city may prescribe regulations, until Congress assumes control of them, but as to such as are national in their
character, and require uniformity of regulation, the power of
Congress is exclusive, and until Congress acts such commerce
is entitled to be free from state regulation, exactions and burdens. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Brown v. State of.Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Wheeling Bridge Case, 13 How. 421;
Gilman v. Philadephia, 3 Wall. 113; Cannon v. -Yew Orleans, 20 Wall. 5717; Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S. 388 ;
Turner v. .aryland, 107 U. S. 38; South Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4 ; Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S.
691; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196;
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 624; Morgan Steamship Co. v.
Louisiana, 118 U. S. 455; United States v. Duluth, 25 Fed.
Cases, 925; Ouchita Packing Co. v. Aiken, 121 U. S. 444;
Gould on Waters, see. 138, page 254; -Lawton v. Steele, 152
U. S. 13'(; Covington & CincinnatiBridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154
U. S. 204.
II. The establishment of harbor lines in the navigable
waters of the United States by Congress is an exercise of the
constitutional grant of power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, and although the
State, or a municipality acting under authority from the State,
may, in the absence of any action by Congress, establish such
harbor lines, such action relating to a subject of local interest,
and which affects international and interstate commerce only
incidentally, yet, whenever Congress acts, then the power of
the State is at an end, and if any conflict exist between the
lines established by the National and state Governments respectively, those of the State must give way to those established
by the General Government. Same authorities as above.
III. Congress has jurisdiction, in the exercise of its power to
regulate commerce, over the navigable waters of a river lying
wholly within the limits of a single State. Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheaton, 1; Yeasie v. Moor, 14 How. 568; Willson v.
Blackhird Creek -Marsh Co., 2 Peters, .251; Sillman v, iZud,-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

190 U. S.

son River Bridge Co., 2 Wall. 403; Gilman v. Philadelphia,
3 Wall. 713; The Passaic Bridges, 3 Wall. 782; Pound v.
Turk, 95 U. S. 459; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196, and authorities, supra.
IV. The action of Congress in enacting sections 7 and 12 of
the River and Harbor Act of September 19, 1890, 26 Stat. 454,
conferring certain powers on the Secretary of War, is not a delegation of legislative powers, and said sections are constitutional.
Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheaton, 1-43; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 137 ; Sutherland on Statutory Construction,
sec. 68; United States v. The Eliason, 16 Peters, 291 ; Gratiot
v. United States, 4 How. 80; Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S.167;
Tilley v. R. R. Co., 5 Fed. Rep. 641 ; R. ?. Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed.
Rep. 866; In re Griner, 16 Wisconsin, 447; United States v.
Ormslee, 74 Fed. Rep. 209; Field v. Clarke, 143 U. S.649693; Iocke's Appeal, 72 Penn. St. 491; South Carolina v.
Georgia,93 U. S. 13 ; .Miller v. -Mayorof -New York, 109 U.S.
385; United States v. City of Moline, 82 Fed. Rep. 596;
United States v. Xorth, Bloomfleld Gravel Mining Co., 81 Fed.
Rep. 253; State v. Railroad Co., 37 N. W. Rep. 782; State v.
Railroad Co., 35 N. W. Rep. 118; Stone v. Trust Co., 116 U. S.
307; United States v. Romard, 89 Fed. Rep. 157; -Fallbrook
Irrigation-Dist.v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112; State v. Gerhardt,
145 Indiana, 439 ; see. 12, Deficiency Act, March 9, 1891, 26
Stat. 800, 868; sec. 4, River and Harbor Act, August 17, 1894,
Supp. Rev. Stat. vol. 2, p. 250; Illinois v. Illinois Central R.
1?. Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 955.
V. The power conferred on the Secretary of War by sections 7 and 12 of the River and Harbor Act of September 19,
1890, supra, is plenary and the enactment of those sections by
Congress was a full exercise of all the constitutional power possessed by Congress in reference to the establishment of harbor
lines, while the other portions of the act, relating to bridges,
was only a partial exercise of the power exercised by Congress;
therefore the two pieces of legislation, relating to the two different subjects, although all in the same act, are radically different in both purpose and scope, and the correct interpretation

MONTGOMERY v. PORTLAND.
190 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and application of the one-that is, that portion of the act relating to bridges, as considered and interpreted in the case of
the ,LaeShore and 31ichigan Railway Company v. Ohio, 165
U. S. 365, can have no legitimate bearing in the interpretation
and application of sections 7 and 12 relating solely to the establishment of harbor lines. Sections 4 and 5 and a part of
section I of the River and Harbor Act of September 19, 1890, relate to bridges, 26 Stat. 426, 453, while section 12 and a part
of section 7, same act, relate solely to the establishment of harbor lines. 26 Stat. 426, 453 ; Act September 19, 1890, 26 Stat.
453455.
TI. The act of G. D. Meiklejohn, Acting Secretary of War,
is the act of the Secretary of War. Rev. Stat. see. 177; Supp.
Rev. Stat. vol. 1, 2d ed. p. 707.
VII. The power given to the Secretary of War by section 12
of the act of September 19, 1890, supra, to establish harbor
lines, implies necessarily the power to modify, change or create
anew. United States v. The Eliason, 16 Peters, 291; United
States v. Romard, 89 Fed. Rep. 157.
VIII. The facts, as presented by the pleadings and evidence,
conferred jurisdiction on the Secretary of War to relocate and
re~stablish the harbor line in the manner the same was relocated
and reestablished by him September 23, 1898. Numbers sixth,
seventh and eighth of the findings of fact.
IX. The harbor lines caused to be established by the Secretary of War in front of the property of the respondent, Montgomery, August 9,1892, was on proper application changed and
reestablished by the Secretary of War, September 23, 1898.
Sixth, seventh and eighth findings of fact; sec. 12, act of
September 19, 1890, 26 Stat. 455.
X. Although it should be conceded that the Secretary of
War is without power to change or reestablish a harbor line
previously established by him, as contended for by counsel for
appellants, it is clear beyond question that he had by virtue of
sections 7 and 12 of theRiver and Harbor Act of September 19,
1890, supra, power to grant a permission to the respondent,
Montgomery, to extend his wharf" outside the harbor line established August 9, 1892, and having on proper application done
voL. oxC--7

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

190 U. S.

so, neither the State of Oregon, the City of Portland, nor the
Port of Portland, had any right or power to prevent it. Sections 7 and 12, River and Harbor Act of September 19, 1890.
Sixth, seventh and eighth findings of fact.
XI. The wharf being constructed by respondent is located
on lands bordering on the navigable waters of the Willamette
River in Portland harbor, within the limits of the City of Portland, the fee of which is in the respondent, James B. Mon tgomery. Paragraph VII, bill of complaint; answer, paragraph VI;
separate answer, paragraph I; fifth finding of fact.
XII. The riparian owner in Oregon, in the absence of restrictive legislation, has the right by the common law to connect his shore line by means of wharves, piers or docks constructed over the shoal or shallow waters immediately bordering
upon his land with the waters which are navigable in fact.
This he has the right to do not only in his own interest as
a riparian proprietor, but as well also in the interest of the
public, and of national and interstate commerce. Railway Company v. Schurmeier, 7 Wall. 272; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall.
297; TJeaver v. _Harbor Comrni.sioners, 18 Wall. 57; Dutton
v. Strong, 1 Black, 23.
XIII. But in the State of Oregon there is added to this common law right of the riparian owner, supra, an express grant
from the State. Section 4227, act of 1862, Hill's Code, authorizes the owner of any land in Oregon lying upon any navigable
stream, within the corporate limits of any incorporated town,
to construct a wharf or wharves upon the same, and to extend
such wharf or wharves into such stream beyond the low water
mark "so far as may be necessary and convenient for the use
and accommodation of ships, or other boats or vessels that may
or can navigate such stream." Act of 1862, Hill's Code, sec.
4227.
XIV. The question as to what constitutes a public nuisance
must be determined by general and fixed laws, and it is not to
be tolerated that the local municipal authorities of a State can
declare any particular business or structure a nuisance in a
summary mode and enforce its decree at its own pleasure.
Whether a bridge or a pier is a public nuisance or not, whether

MONTGOMERY v. PORTLAND.
190 U. S.

Axgument for Plaintiff in Error.

the same is an obstruction to navigation and commerce or not, is
a question of fact, and no simple declaration of a municipality
can determine the question. -Dutton v. Strong, 1 Black, 32;
Yates v. filwaukee, 10 Wall. 504; Angell on Tide Waters,
196; West Har$ord v. HarVord Water Co., 68 Connecticut,
323; -Mlilne v. -Davidson,16 Am. Dec. 195; Cooley on Constitutional Limitations, 6th ed. 741, note; Everett v. Council
Bluffs, 46 Iowa, 67; Railroad Co. v. Joliet, 79 Illinois, 44; Butchers' Union v. Crescent City, 111 U. S. 746; Smith v. .Jiinto,
30 Oregon, 353; 2 Dillon on ifun. Corp. 4th ed. sec. 800;
Grossman v. City of Oakland, 30 Oregon, 478.
XV. The provision of the city charter conferring power on
the City of Portland, "to regulate the building of wharves and
the driving of piles in the Willamette River within the limits
of the city, and to establish a line beyond which wharves shall
not be built nor piles be driven " (bill of complaint, Abstract
of Record, 2), does not authorize it to declare by a special ordinance that a private wharf is an obstruction to navigation
and a public nuisance, if in point of fact it is not such obstruction or a public nuisance. Authorities, supra.
XVI. Conceding the right of both the City of Portland and
the Port of Portland, as claimed by appellants, to establish
wharf lines in the harbor of the City of Portland, it is respectfully submitted that any action taken by the respondents in
that regard in order to have any binding effect whatever, must
be reasonable, and we submit that the location of the line by
the City of Portland was an unreasonable exercise of municipal
power upon the part of appellants and binds nobody. Authorities, supra.
XVII. Conceding for the argument that the City of Portland
had the power to establish a wharf line, and to declare that
wharves should not be extended outside of such line, even then
the simple declaration of the municipality that the wharf was
being constructed outside of such lines, and that the construction of the same was an obstruction to navigation and therefore
a public nuisance, will not determine the question; and on such
a declaration alone in the complaint, especially if the answer
denies that the construction of the wharf does in any manner

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

190 U. S.

interfere with navigation or commerce, or the improvement of
the river, and that it is not a nuisance, either public or private,
the plaintiff, the municipality, must prove by evidence, other
than the mere declaration of the city itself, that the structure
does interfere with navigation, or the improvement of the river
or commerce, and that it is a public nuisance. Yates v. _20,
waukee, 10 Wall. 498; Angell on Tide Waters, 196, and authorities, supra.
XVIII. In the incorporation act of the Port of Portland
there is no authority whatever conferred upon the Port of Portland to establish harbor lines or wharf lines. The act, therefore, upon the part of the commissioners of the Port of Portland in establishing by resolution wharf lines on both sides of
the Willamette River, was ultra vires and amounts to nothing.
Sees. 6, '(, 12, River and Harbor Act, September 19, 1890, 26
Stat. 453,456 ; sec. 'T,act 1890, as amended July 13, 1892, Supp.
Rev. Stat. vol. 2, p. 30.
XIX. The harbor lines having been established in the Portland harbor by the Secretary of War, August 9, 1892, in pursuance of the power conferred on him by the twelfth section of
the River and Harbor Act of September 19, 1890, 26 Stat. 46,
therefore, the ordinance of the common council of the City of
Portland, approved December 12, 1892, establishing harbor or
wharf lines, Abstract of Record, 2, was unconstitutional and
wholly inoperative, except in so far as the harbor or wharf line
established by such ordinance did not conflict with the line established by the Secretary of War. Authorities, supra.
XX. From the pleadings in this case it is shown, and conceded by complainants, that no action whatever had been taken
either by the City of Portland or the Port of Portland, establishing either harbor or wharf lines in the harbor of Portland
prior to August 9, 1892, when the harbor lines in said harbor
were caused to be established by the Secretary of War. And
it is further shown and conceded by said bill of complaint, that
the State of Oregon had not, prior to September 19, 1890, the
date of the passage of the River and Harbor Act, susara, conferring power on the Secretary of War to cause harbor lines to be
established in the navigable harbors of the United States, passed

MONTGOMERY v. PORTLAND.
190 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

any act conferring upon the City of Portland power to establish
harbor or wharf lines. This power on the part of the city only
dates from February 19, 1891. When, therefore, the General
Government, in the interest of international and interstate commerce, assumed jurisdiction of the waters of the Portland harbor by establishing harbor lines therein, neither the State of
Oregon, nor the City of Portland, nor the Port of Portland,
had established or attempted to establish any such harbor lines.
XXI. "The authorities of a town will not be permitted to
locate an imaginary deep water line away from the navigable
part of a river or bay and without making the water navigable
up to that line, so as to deprive the riparian owners of the advantages of wharves, under a provision of law conferring upon
such tdwn the right to regulate the line of deep water to which
wharves may be built." Wool v. Edenton, 117 S. C. 1, and
authorities, supra.
XXII. Whenever a police power is so exercised by a State
as to come within the domain of Federal authority, as defined
by the Constitution, the latter must prevail. Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, 210; -enderson v. The .Mfayor, 92 U. S. 259, 272;
.Sew Orleans Gas Co. v. Iouisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650,
661; Morgan v. Louisiana, 118 U. S. 464.
XXIII. The police power does not extend to depriving any
person of the lawful use of property without due process of law,
and without just compensation. Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y.
110; -Mfatter of Cheeslrough, 78 N. Y. 232; Rockwell v. _Hearung, 35 N. Y. 302; Fourteenth Amendment, Const. U. S.
XXIV. "Wharves, levees and landing places are essential to
commerce by water, no less than a navigable channel and a
clear river." Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S.
707. No foreign or interstate commerce can be carried on with
the citizens of a State without the use of a wharf. Mr. Justice
Field in Gloucester _Fery Go. v. Pennsylovania, 114 U. S. 205.
Mr. Thomas .D. Pambaut and Mr. C. E. S. Wood for defendants in error, withwhom Mr. George H. Williams was
on the brief.
The material facts in the case at bar are quite similar to

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

190 U. S.

those in the case of Cummings v. Chicago, decided by this
court February 23, 1903, where it is held that private parties must obtain the assent of the constituted agencies of
the State as well as the assent of the agent of the National
Government before erecting a structure in navigable waters
wholly within the State, and the authority of the decision in
that case compels the affirmance of the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Oregon in this case unless the court is persuaded to
overthrow the doctrine it has so recently enunciated. Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410. No ground for the reversal
of that doctrine has been suggested, and a review of the decisions by this court shows that it has been the established
policy of the National Government to leave to the several
States plenary authority over such purely local matters as the
location of wharf lines in navigable waters lying wholly within
the limits of the respective States. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheaton, 1 ; Willson v. Black Bird Creek .M'arsh Co., 2 Pet.
245 ; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wallace, 713 ; Keokuk ff. L. P.
Co. v. -feokuk, 95 U. S. 377; Jfobile County v. Kimball, 102
U. S. 238; Cincinnati&c. Packet Co. v. Trustees Catlettsbtrg,
105 U. S. 559; Parkersburg Transpootation Co. v. Parkersburg, 10T U. S. 801; Ouachita Packet Co. v. Aiken, 121 U. S.
444; Illinois Central R1. 1R. v. -illinois,146 U. S. 387 ; Willamniette Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1, 17.
The River and Harbor Act passed by Congress in 1890,
does not expressly exclude the previously exercised authority of the States over such matters, but deals with the harbor
area only, and leaves to the respective States plenary control
over the wharf area wholly within their limits. The established policy of this Government in permitting States to control wharves is not to be overthrown by a mere inference.
Lake Shore & -Mich. So. Ry. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 365; Cummings v. Micago, supra. The delegation to the Secretary of
War of authority to establish a line beyond which no wharf
shall extend into the protected harbor area, without his permission, does not confer upon that officer the power to give
original authority to build wharves in the wharf area between
the protected harbor area and the shore. If the act of Con-

MONTGOMERY v. PORTLAND.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gress of 1890 purports to confer upon the Secretary of War
this authority, it is tantamount to conferring upon that officer
the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and
among the several States, and is unconstitutional. Art. X,
Amendments to U. S. Constitution.
Congress and the States have concurrent authority over navigable waters wholly within the States until Congress excludes
the State's authority. The intention to exclude the State's
authority must be clearly manifest, and while, no doubt, this
court could confirm the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oregon upon the authority of the recently decided Cumnnings
case, still this court should take advantage of the opportunity
to declare invalid the act of Congress of September 19, 1890,
before further mischief be done under it. Gibbons v. Ogden,
The attempt of the Secretary of War to regstablish
suTpr.
the harbor line was inoperative. If his authority be limited to
a mere executive act he be.came andus ojlio when the original
harbor line was established; but if his authority be to locate
harbor or wharf lines at his discretion, then Congress attempted
to transfer to this officer the regulation of international and
interstate commerce, and the act is void. The power to regulate commerce is wholly a delegated power from the States,
and it cannot be redelegated by Congress. Art. X, Amendments to U. S. Constitution. It would be contrary to the fundamental principles of this Government to permit a body elected
by the people, as Congress is, to turn over to an appointive
officer the power entrusted to it. The incongruity of the act
is apparent when it is realized that the mere deputy of this appointed cabinet officer can exercise this enormous national
power during the temporary absence of his chief, as was done
in this case.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
This case cannot be distinguished in principle from Cummings
v. City of Chicago, 188 U. S. 410, decided at the present term.
In that case it appeared that the Secretary of War, proceeding

OCTOBER 'IER,

190 .

Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

under the act of September 19, 1890, and other legislation of
Congress, had given his assent to the rebuilding of a certain
dock in Calumet River, within the limits of Chicago; which
river, being one of the navigable waters of the United States,
had been surveyed by the direction of the Government, and for
its improvement Congress had made appropriations from time
to time. When that action was commenced there was in force
an ordinance of the City of Chicago, enacted under the authority of the State, forbidding the construction of any pier, dock
or other structure in navigable waters within the limits of that
city without first obtaining a permit from its Department of
Public Works. And the question was whether under the acts
of Congress, including that of 1890, the above ordinance was of
any avail as against the permit of the Secretary.
The contention of the plaintiff was that Congress, by its appropriations for the improvement of Calumet River, had taken
such complete possession of that stream as to deprive the local
authorities of all power in respect of the building or maintenance
of structures in that river. In determining that question the court
took into consideration various enactments, including the tenth
section of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899, c. 425,
(passed after the present suit was brought,) as follows: "That
the creation of any obstruction not affirmatively authorized by
Congress, to the navigable capacity of any of the waters of the
United States is hereby prohibited ; and it shall not be lawful
to build or commence the building of any wharf, pier, dolphin,
boom, weir, breakwater, bulkhead, jetty, or other structures in
any port, roadstead, haven, harbor, canal, navigable river, or
other water of the United States, outside established harbor
lines, or where no harbor lines have been established, except on
plans recommended by the Chief of Engineers and authorized
by the Secretary of War; and it shall not be lawful to excavate
or fill, or in any manner to alter or modify the course, location,
condition, or capacity of, any porl, roadstead, haven, harbor,
canal, lake, harbor of refuge, or inclosure within the limits of
any breakwater, or of the channel of any navigable water of the
United States, unless the work has been recommended by the

MONTGOMERYt v. PORTLAND.
100 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Chief of Engineers and authorized by the Secretary of War
prior to beginning the same." 30 Stat. 1121, 1151.
In that case we recognized the doctrine as long established
that the authority of a State over navigable waters entirely
within its limits was plenary, subject only to such action as
Congress may take in execution of its power under the Constitution to regulate commerce among the several States. After
referring to lake Shore & dMfichigagi Railway v. Ohio, 165 U. S.
365, 366, 368, (1896), we said that if Congress had intended
by its legislation, prior to that decision, "to assert the power
to take under national control, for every purpose, and to the
fullest possible extent, the erection of structures in the navigable waters of the United States that were wholly within the
limits of the respective States, and to supersede entirely the
authority which the States, in the absence of any action by
Congress, have in such matters, such a radical departure from
the previous policy of the Government would have been manifested by clear and explicit language. In the absence of such
language it should not be assumed that any such departure was
intended. We do not overlook the long-settled principle that
the power of Congress to regulate commerce among States ' is
complete in itself, may be exercised to its utmost extent, and
acknowledges no limitations other than are prescribed in the
Constitution.' Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196 ; Brown v.
.Marylland, 12 Wheat. 419, 446 ; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.
630. But we will not at this time make any declaration of
opinion as to the full scope of this power or as to the extent to
which Congress may go in the matter of the erection, or authorizing the erection, of docks and like structures in navigable
waters that are entirely within the territorial limits of the
several States. Whether Congress may, against or without the
expressed will of a State, give affirmative authority to private
parties to erect structures in such waters, it is not necessary in
this case to decide. It is only necessary to say that the act of 1899
does not manifest the purpose of Congress to go to that extent
under the power to regulate foreign and interstate commerce and
thereby to supersede the original authority of the States. The
effect of that act, reasonably interpreted, is to make the erec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U.'S.

tion of a structure in a navigable river, within the limits of a
State, depend upon the concurrent or joint assent of both the
National Government and the state government. The Secretary of War, acting under the authority conferred by Congress,
may assent to the erection by private parties of such a structure.
Without such assent the structure cannot be erected by them.
But under existing legislation they must, before proceeding under such an authority, obtain also the assent of the State acting by its constituted agencies."
There is nothing in the present case to distinguish it from
the Cuinmmivgs case. While section 12 of the act of 1890 forbade
the construction or extension of piers, wharves, bulkheads, or
other works, beyond the harbor lines established under the
-direction of the Secretary of War, in navigable waters of the
United States, "except under such regulations as may be prescribed from time to time by him," it does not follow that
Congress intended in such matters to disregard altogether the
wishes of the local authorities. Its general legislation so far
means nothing more than that the regulations established by
the Secretary in respect of waters, the navigation and commerce upon which may be regulated by Congress, shall not be
disregarded even by the States. Congress has not, however,
indicated its purpose to wholly ignore the original power of
the States to regulate the use of navigable waters entirely within their respective limits. Upon the authority then of Cummings v. City qf CMicago, and the cases therein cited-to which
we may add Ffillamette Bridge Co. v. Hfatch, 125 U. S. 1-we
hold that, under existing enactments, the right of private persons to erect structures in a navigable water of the United States
that is entirely within the limits of a State, cannot be said to be
complete and absolute without the concurrent or joint assent
of both the General and state Governments. Of course, the
right of the Government to erect public structures in a navigable water of the United States rests upon different grounds.
In this view it is unnecessary to consider the general question discussed at the bar whether Congress has or not, by some
of its enactments relating to structures in navigable waters,
committed to the Secretary of War the determination of mat-

WILKES COUNTY v,. COLER.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ters that are legislative in their nature and which, under the
Constitution, could only be determined, in the first instance, by
Congress. It is sufficient now to say that the legislation upon
which the defendant relies to justify the construction of the works
in question does not, when reasonably interpreted, indicate any
purpose upon the part of Congress to assume such complete and
absolute control of the navigable waters of the United States as
will make of no avail the action of the States in respect of the
erection by private parties of structures in waters wholly within their respective limits.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon is
A4ffmed.

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 247. Argued April 17, 20, 1903.-Decided MIay 18, 1903.

The North Carolina ordinance of March 8, 1868, has been declared by
the Supreme Court of that State and by this court, (180 U. S. 532,)
to have been the law of North Carolina when bonds were issued by
Wilkes County for subscription to stock of the Northwestern North
Carolina Railroad Company. All the conditions of the ordinance as to
the route of the railroad and the approval of a majority of the qualified
electors of the county having been met, the county had power to subscribe to the stock of the road and to issue its bonds therefor, and it
cannot now contend that the bonds are invalid for want of power on its
part to issue them.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

'. A. C. Avery for petitioners.
Xr. .7ohn F. -Dillonfor respondents. -Mr. HBar'ry Hubbard,
'. Johnf -.Dillon and X'. Charles Price were on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action against Wilkes County, North Carolina,

