CASES ADJUDGED

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.

In

Pe

WATTS AND SACHS, PETITIONERS.

ORIGINAL.
Nos. 15,16.

HABEAS CORPUS AND CERTIORARI.
Argued April 20, 1903.-Decided May 18, 1903.

1. The jurisdiction of the courts in bankruptcy in the administration of the
affairs of insolvent persdns and corporations is essentially exclusive.
2. The general rule as between courts of concurrent jurisdiction is that
property already in possession of the receiver of one court cannot rightfully be taken from him without the court's consent by the receiver of
another court appointed in a subsequent suit, and although that rule
has only a qualified application when winding up proceedings in a: state
court are superseded by proceedings in bankruptcy, it obtains as a rule of
comity, and its considerate observance is adequate to avert collisions between Federal and state courts.
3. The preservation of the independence of the bar is vital to the dde administration of justice, and its members cannot be imprisoned for contempt for error in judgment when advising in good faith and in the
honest belief that their advice is well founded.
4. Members of the bar cannot be properly held to have intended to obstruct
the administration of justice and to bring the authority of a court of the
United States into contempt when it is the orders of a state court appearing to have been entered of record of its own motion that are complained of, and counsel in that court acted in good faith and in the
honest discharge of their duty.

M. ZIER & COMPANY, a corporation located at

New

Albany.

Indiana, engaged in the boiler manufacturing business, was
(1)
VOL. 0x0-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

hopelessly insolvent on and prior to December 30, 1902, and
some thousands of dollars had been drawn from its treasury by
the manager of its affairs for the purpose of making certain
payments, of which $3100 had been paid to Ryerson & Son, a
corporation of Chicago, Illinois, and a large creditor of the Zier
Company, previously to December 30, and $9600 was on that
day placed by M. Zier, the manager of the company, in the
hands of his attorney to be paid over to Zier's sister-in-law, who
was a stockholder and creditor of the Zier corporation. It was
arranged by Zier's attorney with the Chicago corporation on
December 29 that the latter should apply for the appointment
of a receiver of the Zier corporation, and that the New Albany
Trust Company should be appointed receiver, and this resulted
in a complaint filed by the Ryerson corporation, represented by
W. W. Watts, a member of the bar of Kentucky, in the Circuit
Court of Floyd County, Indiana, charging that the Zier Company was insolvent and was dissipating its property and assets,
and praying for the appointment of a receiver, "and that the
court shall make such orders as shall be necessary and proper
for the preservation of said property, for the continuance of
said business for the purpose of completing unfinished contracts,"
etc., to which defendant voluntarily appeared and consented to
the appointment of the New Albany Trust Company as receiver.
The appointment was accordingly made, and the Trust Company immediately qualified and proceeded to administer the
estate and wind up its affairs.
On January 16, the Trust Company, as receiver, filed its report and petition, giving an inventory and appraisement of the
assets of Zier & Co., the receipts and expenditures of the receiver to that date, the particulars in respect of outstanding
contracts; raising the question as to the further operation of
the plant, and advising an order for a meeting of the creditors
to consider that subject; requiring creditors to prove their
claims, and enjoining them from the prosecution of suits except
by intervention. A list of the creditors was attached, which
included the Inland Steel Company, John C. Thurston, and the
Dey Time Register Company.
The court entered an order directing such meeting to be

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

AND

SACHS.

Statement of the Case.

held January 24, and notice by mail to be given, which was
done, and the meeting was held on that day, a large number
of creditors being represented, including the Inland Steel Company. An order was thereupon entered for payment of rent,
the completion of unfinished contracts, for the continuance of
the operation of the plant to a specified extent, for the issue of
certificates of indebtedness to a small amount, but that no new
contracts should be made. It was further ordered that creditors be notified by mail and by publication to file their claims
on or before May 11, and "that all creditors and other persons
be and they are hereby enjoined and restrained from prosecuting any claim or suit against this estate except by intervention
in this cause or by first obtaining leave of this court."
February 6, 1903, the Inland Steel Company, John C.
Thurston, and John Dey, doing business as Dey Time Register
Company, creditors of the Zier corporation to the amounts of
$935, $15, and $100, respectively, filed their petition in bankruptcy in the United States District Court for the District of
Indiana against that corporation to have it declared a bankrupt. The petition alleged that the company was hopelessly
insolvent and had committed, within four months next preceding the filing of the petition, acts of bankruptcy, which were
specified. It was further alleged that it was necessary, for
the preservation of the estate of Zier & Company and for the
benefit of its creditors alike, that a receiver in bankruptcy be
appointed at once to take charge of the affairs of said company. On February 11 a further petition was filed by the
Inland Steel Company, and, on the same day, a supplemental
petition, in which the appointment by the Circuit Court of
Floyd County of a receiver and his being put in charge of the
insolvent's property, were set up as additional acts of bankruptcy.
The District Court thereupon appointed Frederick D. Connor
as receiver, and directed that he should take into his possession
the plant of Zier & Company and all its other property, and
further ordered that the New Albany Trust Company should
deliver up to the receiver all the property of Zier & Company
and refrain from in any way interfering with him. The re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

ceiver immediately qualified by giving bond as required by the
court.
February 13, 1903, and before the receiver of the District
Court had made demand for the property, on learning of Mr.
Connor's appointment as receiver, Mr. Watts, after consulting
with the local attorneys of Zier & Company, communicated
with the District Judge and requested that the Federal receiver should not proceed until he, Mr. Watts, could procure
an order from the Floyd Circuit Court permitting him to do
so, and could come to Indianapolis, and present to the District
Judge reasons why the receiver should not have been appointed by that court, and why his order to that effect should
be vacated. The District Judge immediately caused the court's
receiver and the attorneys interested in the case to be notified to
take no further steps until a hearing could be had on the
questions suggested by Mr. Watts, on February 16, at Indianapolis. No further action was taken by the receiver of the
District Court, but he presented to the Floyd Circuit Court a
petition setting forth his appointment and qualification, together
with a certified copy of the order appointing him, on the
morning of Saturday, February 14, and asked the delivery to
him of the property and effects of Zier & Company and the
discharge of the Trust Company as receiver. The Floyd Circuit Court entered an order reciting that Connor, as receiver,
came by his attorney, "and by leave and order of the court,
and upon his own motion, makes himself a party to this proceeding, and thereupon by leave of the court files his verified
petition showing his appointment as receiver of said Al. Zier
& Co. by order of the United States District Court for the
District of Indiana," and praying for the surrender of the
property, "and the matter of said petition is now continued
until the next term of this court." Saturday, February 14,
was the last day of the term, and the next term of the court
commenced on the ninth day of March.
On the same day, February 14, the Trust Company, by
Watts, its attorney, filed its petition, framed by him, which alleged that the Trust Company was carrying out as receiver
the terms of the order of January 24; that that order had

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

AND

SACUS.

Statement of the Case.

been entered without objection from the Inland Steel Company, John C. Thurston or the Dey Register Company, or any
creditor; that the three last-mentioned creditors had filed a
petition in involuntary bankruptcy against M. Zier & Company, February 6, 1903; that supplemental petitions were filed
February 11, 1903, but that the petitions, although setting up
the receivership in the state court, had not shown to the United
States District Court the participation of the Inland Steel
Company in the proceedings of January 24, its appearance,
and the restraining order and injunction ; that thereupon the
order had been obtained in the bankruptcy proceedings appointing Connor receiver, and directing him to take charge of
the estate of M. Zier & Company in bankruptcy, and directing the receiver of the state court to deliver up the property.
The petition' further averred that the creditors whose appearance was noted in the state court on January 24 had claims
aggregating $53,279.51 ; that creditors with claims aggregating
$11,622.49 had filed claims with the state court receiver, making a total of $64,902 in amount, so filed or appearing, out of a
total liability of $76,463.36; that the total number of creditors
was seventy-six; that thirty-seven appeared to the action, and
twenty-five, including the Dey Time Register Company, had
filed their claims with the state court receiver, making a total
of sixty-two creditors who had appeared or filed their claims.
That, with a view to the due observance of the comity existing between the state and the Federal courts, and of avoiding
a clash of jurisdiction, petitioner had communicated through
its attorneys with the United States District Judge and requested the non-enforcement of his order until after the matters
in question had been presented to the state court, with the request that that court direct it and its attorneys to lay said
matters before the judge of the District Court, whereupon the
District Judge requested counsel to notify the attorneys of the
creditors petitioning in bankruptcy that the matter would be
heard on Monday, February 16, in Indianapolis, and that in
the meantime the order appointing Connor was not to be enforced.
The petition further alleged that the court was about to ad-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

journ over to the first day of its next term, March 9; that the
order of January 24, directed petitioner as receiver to go on
and complete various contracts; that it had entered upon the
work; that the operation of the plant was for the beneficial
purposes of the estate; and that the stoppage of the plant would
involve loss to the creditors and many complicated questions of
damage; that it would work great hardship to leave the estate
with the court adjourned and without instructions as to what
to do; and that the petitioner was this court's officer, and must
be ordered and directed by this court only, with respect to the
property in its hands.
Petitioner averred that the injunction and restraining order
of the state court had been knowingly violated by the Inland
Steel Company and th6 Dey Time Register Company; that
these two creditors and all other creditors were estopped from
prosecuting the petition in bankruptcy, and from seeking to
take from petitioner the assets in its hands as receiver; and
that all the creditors were enjoined from prosecuting any attempt to take from the receiver any of the assets in its hands
except by leave. And, further, that the record in the District
Court of the United States for the District of Indiana did not
disclose all the facts regarding the matters herein; that that
court had no information as to the restraining orders and
estoppels, by entry of appearance, participation, and otherwise.
That the assets of the Zier Company were in custodia legis;
that the parties had submitted themselves to this forum; that
the court came into lawful custody of the property, and the
orders and proceedings were entered and had before the institution of the bankruptcy proceedings, and the attempt to oust
this court and receiver therefrom. Petitioner, therefore, asserted its belief that the District Court, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, would coincide with the state court, if
it should deem wise to enter orders specifically restraining the
Inland Steel Company, John L. Thurston and the Dey Time
Register Company and their attorneys; Connor; and the United
States marshal from further prosecuting any matters in relation
to the estate or of the taking of the assets in any manner, except by intervention in this action.

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

xqD SACHS.

Statement of the Case.

Petitioner prayed for instructions; that it should present the

facts to the District Court of the United States, either by limited or general appearance in the bankruptcy proceedings, and
ask such relief, if any, as this court might direct; and that an
injunction be granted.
An order was then entered, prepared by Mr. Watts, embodying matters set up in the petition, granting an injunction, ordering the operation of the plant to continue, and directing the
receiver, through its attorneys, to proceed to Indianapolis and
there by a limited appearance to lay before the District Court
the facts with regard to the matters herein, and to suggest to
that court the orders of this court, and its belief that with full
information of the facts the order of that court would at most
have been a direction for application to be made to this court
for the delivery of the assets to the receiver or trustee of the
District Court. It was further ordered that the Inland Steel
Company, John L. Thurston, and the Dey Time Register Company show cause why they should not be punished for contempt
in disobeying the orders of this court by taking action without
obtaining leave.

On Monday, February 16, Mr. Watts, with the vice president
of the New Albany Trust Company, receiver, appeared in the
District Court at Indianapolis, and the proceedings in the state
court, including the petition and order of February 14, were
laid before that court, and hearing was had that day and on
February 17. At the conclusion of the argument the District
Judge announced his ruling that the court in bankruptcy had
supreme and exclusive jurisdiction in the matter; and asked Mr.
Watts and the representative of the Trust Company if it were
not better to avoid the clash of jurisdiction by voluntarily turning the property over to the Federal receiver, indicating at the
same time that otherwise it would be his duty to exert the
power of the court in vindication of its jurisdiction. Mr. Watts
and his colleague thereupon announced that the property would
be turned over to the Federal receiver. Mr. Watts at the same
time stated to the court that he would do all in his power to
see that the proceedings in the state court of February 14 were

OCTOBER TERM, 190 .
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

stricken out, and that he would endeavor to have the state
court make an order directing the surrender of the property.
The District Court, on February 17, made the following order:
"This cause coming on now to be heard upon the petition of
Frederick D. Connor, filed herein on the 16th day of February,
A. D. 1903, for the instruction of the court concerning the property and assets of said Mv.Zier & Company, which are now in
the possession of the New Albany Trust Company, as receiver
of the Floyd Circuit Court, in a suit therein pending against
said M. Zier & Company, because of their insolvency; and the
petitioning creditors in this cause and said Connor, receiver as
aforesaid, being now present and represented by George H.
Hester and William Wilhartz, their solicitors, and said New
Albany Trust Company, receiver as aforesaid, being now present and represented by Henry E. Jewett, its vice president, and
by William W. Watts, its solicitor, and after argument by
counsel, the said New Albany Trust Company, as receiver of
the Floyd Circuit Court, by its said vice president, having voluntarily offered and agreed, by and with the consent and approval of said William W. Watts, its solicitor, in open court, to
surrender full and immediate possession and control of the property and assets of said M. Zier & Company, in its possession or
under its control, as receiver of the Floyd Circuit Court, to said
Connor, as receiver of this court, upon the presentation by him
to said New Albany Trust Company of a certified copy of the
order for his appointment as such receiver heretofore made by
this court. It is now hereby ordered by the court that said
Connor, receiver as aforesaid, forthwith present a certified copy
of the order for his appointment as such receiver to the said
New Albany Trust Company, and immediately thereupon take
full possession and control of the property and assets of said
M. Zier & Company that are now in the possession or under
the control of said New Albany Trust Company, as receiver of
the Floyd Circuit Court."
On February 19 the Trust Company by its vice president filed
a report in the Floyd Circuit Court, in which it stated that, in
pursuance of the order of the court, it had appeared before the

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

AND

SAC0KS.

Statement of the Case.

District Judge in Indianapolis on Monday, February 16, and,

J

upon the hearing in that court, the receiver had stated that it
was ready and willing to deliver to the receiver appointed by
the Federal court all the property and assets of Zier & Company in its bands; that it had not yet been able to make up its
accounts as receiver, but was preparing the same to submit to
the court, and was willing to turn over all the property to the
Federal receiver; and prayed leave from the court to do so.
The company further asked that upon the presentation and approval of its accounts as receiver, its resignation be accepted,
and that it be fully and finally discharged.
On the same day Connor demanded of the Trust Company
the property of Zier & Company in its possession, to which
that company-at once replied that it had that morning filed
before the judge of the Floyd Circuit Court, in chambers, a report, a copy of which was attached; that the judge had stated
orally that he wished the property held until the accounts of
the Trust Company as receiver were reiidered and passed on;
that the company thought this might be done the next day,
and desired, if Connor was willing, to defer action until then,
because it would "relieve us of embarrassment in the premises.
On the other hand, if you insist on immediate surrender of the
property to you, we are bound to say that we believe that to
carry out in good faith the understanding with the Honorable
Judge of the United States Court of Indianapolis and our vice
president, HI. E. Jewett, we ought to surrender the property to
you at once." Connor declined to grant further time, and the
Trust Company turned over to him the plant of Zier & Company, which constituted all the property of that company except certain books and cash. Connor immediately took possession of the property and put watchmen in charge to hold the
same for him.
On February 20 the United States Tube Company presented
to the Floyd Circuit Court, "in vacation, at chambers," a petition signed and verified by D. A. Sachs, in which it was set forth
that the Trust Company, as receiver, had wrongfully turned
over and surrendered the possession of the boiler plant of Zier
& Conipany to Connor, the receiver in bankruptcy, and was

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

threatening to turn over to Connor all the other assets of Zier
& Company in its hands. Petitioner therefore prayed that the
Trust Company be cited to appear before the court, in chambers,
on the afternoon of that day, and show cause why it should
not be punished for contempt, and that if the court found that
the Trust Company had violated its orders as represented that
it be removed from its office as such receiver and a successor
be appointed; and that the Trust Company be required to account immediately and turn over to its successor the property
of Zier & Company. On this petition the judge of the Floyd
Circuit Court on the same day entered an order removing the
Trust Company from the receivership and directing it to account for the assets of Zier & Company. The order further
provided for the appointment of Charles D. K61so as receiverand directed him, on qualification, to demand of the Trust Company and Connor the immediate possession of the property of
Zier & Company which came into the hands of the Trust Company as receiver, and should Connor fail or refuse to surrender
the possession of the assets, that he at once report to the judge
for further instructions.
Kelso, having qualified, on the same day reported to the judge
at chambers that he had demanded of the Trust Company the
possession of the assets of Zier & Company, and that the Trust
Company had refused to surrender the possession for the reason
that it had turned over the possession of the plant to Connor,
and that as to the other assets it intended to account forthwith
to the judge of the Floyd Circuit Court; and that he then demanded the property of Connor, who refused to surrender the
same. The state court then entered an order that a writ be
issued, directed to the sheriff of the county, requiring him immediately to seize and deliver to Kelso all the property which
Connor had in his possession, and forthwith to make a return
to the court.
February 21, Connor filed a petition in the District Court, in
which, after setting forth the facts as to the delivery of the
possession of the plant of Zier & Company to him, February 19,
he stated that he retained possession of the same until February 20, when possession was demanded of him by Kelso, as

Inh re WATTS
190 U. S.

AND

SACHS.

Statement of the Case.

receiver appointed by the Floyd Circuit Court, which demand
he refused; that he was served with a certified copy of the order
of the Floyd Circuit Court, and with a writ issued by that court
February 20, to the sheriff, requiring him forthwith to take
possession of the plant and the assets; and that the sheriff
forcibly took possession thereof, and delivered the same over
to Kelso, who was then in possession.
The petition of Connor further stated:
"That this petitioner believes the above-stated proceedings
were procured to be had by William W. Watts, Esq., of Louisville, Ky., who during the continuation of the New Albany
Trust Company, as receiver of M. Zier & Company, represented said Trust Company as such; that said Charles ID.
Kelso is now represented by one D. A. Sachs, Esq., of Louisville, Ky., an attorney-at-law, and that the petitioner believes
that said Sachs also assisted in procuring the orders of the
said Floyd Circuit Court above set out, and the petitioner
further says that he verily believes the forcible removal of
said property from his possession and control as receiver appointed by this court as aforesaid, was brought about by the
joint action and efforts of said Charles D. Kelso, as receiver,
and Charles D. Kelso, individually, and William W. Watts, as
attorney for said New Albany Trust Company, and D. A.
Sachs, attorney for said Charles ID.Kelso, receiver."
The petitioner further prayed that Kelso, as receiver and
individually ; the sheriff, the deputy sheriff, and the custodian
of the plant; and William W. Watts, as attorney for the Trust
Company, and D. A. Sachs, as attorney for Kelso, be required
and directed to redeliver the property to petitioner, and be
cited to appear and show cause why they should not be punished for contempt.
On this petition the District Court, February 21, made an
order requiring the parties therein named to appear before it
at Indianapolis on February 25 to show cause why they should
not redeliver the property, and restraining them from in any
way interfering therewith; and further ordering that the
parties show cause why they should not be punished for contempt. On the same day, the United States District Attorney

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
. Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

for the District of Indiana filed informations in the District
Court against Kelso, Watts, Sachs, and others, for contempt
of the District Court in disobeying and disregarding its orders.
Watts and Sachs filed separate answers and pleas to the rule
to show cause and to the information against them, which were
traversed by the United States District Attorney.
William W. Watts, by way of response to the rule, and plea
to the information, pleaded that he was not guilty of the alleged
contempts stated in the rule and information, or either of
them. He denied that he had committed or advised any act
of contempt of the orders of the District Court, or that he had
in any way, directly or indirectly, or by aiding or advising,
forcibly, or in any other way, taken from the receiver in the
bankruptcy proceedings the property of Zier & Company, or
any part of it, or in any way, by aiding, abetting or advising,
had withheld the custody of said property or any part of it.
But ie said that the orders of the District Court directing its
receiver to take the property of Zier & Company into its
custody were void because of want of jurisdiction, and that the
possession of the property by Connor, receiver, was wrongfully
and unlawfully obtained, and the retaking under the orders and
writ of the Floyd Circuit Court was a lawful and proper taking.
Ile then set up the various proceedings hereinbefore enumerated, and the part he took therein; adding: "All this was done
solely for the purpose of preventing any possible conflict between the two jurisdictions, and it was believed by this defendant and respondent, and by the said New Albany Trust
Company, and by the judge of the Floyd Circuit Court, that
upon such presentation, the United States District Court would
rescind its said order appointing said Frederick D. Connor, as
receiver, and directing him to take possession of said property
of M. Zier & Company." Under this authorization he and the
Trust Company appeared at Indianapolis on IMonday, February 16, and exhibited to the District Court the order of the
Floyd Circuit Court authorizing them to appear, and make a
full statement of the situation in the state court, after which
and extended argument, the District Judge refused in any way
to reconsider, modify or set aside his order, and demanded of

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

AN'D

SACHS.

Statement of the Case.

the representative of the Trust Company whether or not it
would turn over the property, and of defendant and respondent
whether or not he, as counsel for the Trust Company, would
advise it to turn the property over, to Connor, as receiver.
"Under these circumstances and not otherwise, and believing
that the said demand of said judge of the said United States
District Court was peremptory, this defendant and respondent,
as counsel for the said New Albany Trust Company, stated
that he would advise the said New Albany Trust Company to
turn over the said property to the said Frederick D. Connor,
receiver." On February 17, defendant and the vice president
of the Trust Company left Indianapolis, and defendant supposed
that it was not necessary for any order respecting the hearing
in the District Court February 16 and 17 to be entered, and
that no order would be entered. But an order was entered, a
fact which he learned several days thereafter.
Defendant, further answering, alleged that on February 19
defendant and the Trust Company, receiver, appeared before
the judge of the Floyd Circuit Court, in chambers, and defendant, as attorney for the Trust Company, then filed before the
judge of that court a written petition and motion, setting forth
what had passed at Indianapolis, in view of which he moved to
strike out and expunge from the files the petition and order of
February 14, 1903. This was particularly desired, because the
District Judge seemed to regard the petition and order as offensive. That defendant was in every way in good faith endeavoring to carry out the understanding at Indianapolis, and
advised, and at no time gave any contrary advice, the Trust
Company to turn over to Connor, receiver, all the property of
the Zier Company. The response and plea further averred
that Watts was much embarrassed by the condition of affairs
and felt that the judge of the Floyd Circuit Court might misconstrue his actions in the premises, and before going to New
Albany on February 19, 1903, requested his friend, D. A.
Sachs, a lawyer residing in Louisville, Kentucky, to accompany
him for the purpose of explaining his action to the judge of
the Floyd Circuit Court, and this Sachs accordingly did. But
the judge of that court was not satisfied, and entered a rule on

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Statement of the Case.

190 U. S.

Watts to show cause "why he should not be punished for
contempt."
On the same day the Trust Company filed its separate petition, praying for leave to turn over the property, and for its
discharge in the premises on the approval of its accounts. But
the judge cited it also to show cause.
The pleading further set forth the communication of the Trust
Company to Connor, receiver, and the delivery of the property
to him; and that on February 20 defendant appeared before
the judge of the Floyd Circuit Court in obedience to his request. On that day an order was entered removing the Trust
Company as receiver, and appointing Charles D. Kelso as receiver in its stead, and authorizing him to demand of Connor
the property of Zier & Company. Before that order was entered the Trust Company had, in fact, under the advice of
Watts, turned over the property to Connor, and the response
and plea asserted that defendant did not advise, aid, connive
at, or abet the entry of said order, and had nothing whatsoever
to do with it.
The response and plea further set forth the report of Kelso,
and the entry of an order directing the issue of a summary writ
to the sheriff of Floyd County, and stated: "This defendant
and respondent did not procure the entry of said order or connive at its entry or advise its entry, and did not know of its
entry until after it had been entered. He had no connection
whatever with it."
Defendant and respondent reiterated that all of his acts and
doings and advice after his appearance at Indianapolis were
with the single purpose of having the Trust Company turn over
all the property and effects to the receiver of the District Court,
and that he did nothing and said nothing and advised nothing
which would in any way delay the execution of that purpose;
that he did nothing and said nothing with reference to the removal of the Trust Company or the removal of Kelso, and in
no way did he advise anything looking to the retaking of said
property from the hands of said Connor, receiver, and with all
these matters he had nothing to do. Transcripts of the records
were attached as exhibits.

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

AND

SACHS.

Statement of the Case.

By his separate response and plea, D. A. Sachs denied -the
commission of any act, or the advising or consenting to the commission of any act, in disobedience of any order of the court in
the bankruptcy case, or that he had aided, abetted or advised
the taking from the receiver the property of Zier & Company,
or in any way disobeyed or disregarded, or aided or abetted the
disregarding of, the orders or decrees of the District Courtor
been guilty of any contempt in the case. He said that he first
heard of the proceedings on February 18 from Mr. Watts, and
appeared before the state judge and attempted to explain the
matter simply as his friend, lie at no time advised disobedience or disregard of the orders of the District Court or the
taking of the property from Connor, but on the contrary advised against that course; and "that all he did in this matter
was without fee or any consideration whatever except through
friendship to said Watts." He then believed and is still of the
opinion that the receiver of the Floyd Circuit Court had the
rightful possession of the property, and that the District Court
did not have the right or authority to interfere therewith in
the summary way pursued herein. The response then set forth
the various proceedings in both courts, and respondent asserted
that on Monday, February 23, 1903, he learned for the first time
of the making of the order in the District Court dated February 17. He denied that he had anything to do with the proceedings other than the action he took with a view of extricating
Mr. Watts from the complications, and "with a view of avoiding any action that might be justly construed as a violation of
the orders of either court." He denied knowledge of a petition
or order for the property to be seized, and had nothing whatever to do in any way with the procuring or execution of such
an order or with the forcible taking of the property or any part
thereof from the receiver.
The responses and pleas having been traversed, evidence,
documentary and oral, was adduced at considerable length,
and on March 14, 1903, the District Court found Watts and
Sachs each guilty of contempt as charged in the information
and rules, and sentenced each of them to confinement in the
jail of Marion County for sixty days and to pay costs.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1902.

Argument for Petitioner Watts.

190 U. S.

In the meantime the property had been restored to Connor,
receiver, the $9600 bad been paid over to him, and Zier & Company had been adjudicated bankrupt.
Petitions by Watts and Sachs for writs of habeas corpus and
of certiorari, setting forth the foregoing matters and things,
were thereupon presented to this court, leave given to file
them, and the writs thereupon issued, and it was directed that
each of the petitioners be admitted to bail on his personal recognizance in the sum of $500, to be entered into before the
judge of the United States court for the District of Indiana.
.Ar. David Fairleigh,with whom Mr. BernardFlexner was
on the brief, for the petitioner Watts.
I. When a person is imprisoned by a United States court for
refusing to comply with an order of that court, and such order
is beyond the jurisdiction or power of the court to make, the
order itself is void, and the order punishing for contempt is likewise void, and this court will, on writ of habeas co?:pus, discharge the person so imprisoned. Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall.
163; Ex parte Rowland, 10d: U. S. 604; Ex _parte Fisk, 113
U. S. 713; _Tn re Ayres, 123 U. S. 443; Jn re Lane, 135 U. S.
443; In -re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164; In re Bonner, 151 U. S. 24:2;
IFn re Mleltenzie, 180 U. S. 536.
II. An order of a United States District Court sitting in bankruptcy, commanding its receiver to peremptorily take from the
possession of a receiver of a state court property in his hands as
such at the time the bankruptcy proceedings were begun, is
void. Peak v. enness, 7 -%ow.611 ; Taylor v. Carryl,20 How.
583; ]farshall v. Knox, 16 Wall. 551; Doe v. Childress, 21
Wall. 643; Covell v. leyman, 111 U. S. 182; Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 168; Johnson, Assignee, v. Bishop, Sierif,
Woolworth, 324; .AMetcayf v. Barker, 187 U. S. 165; Pickens
v. Boy, 187 U. S. I[[; Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, 184:
U. S. 18; Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524.
III. A receiver appointed by a court has no authority to
surrender the possession of the property in his hands without
authority from the court which appointed him, and the person
who so acquires the possession of the property from him is in

In re WAT I'S
190 U. S.

AND

SACHS.

Argument for Petitioner Sachs.

wrongful possession, and the court may issue an appropriate
writ to restore the possession of the property to a custodian of
the court. Davis v. Gray, 16 Wal. 217; Shields v. Coleman,
157 U. S. 168; Tkite v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Metcalf v.
Barker, 187 U. S. 165.
.Mrb. W. H. 1. -Miller,with whom Mr. W. .X. Smith was on
the brief, for the petitioner Sachs.
1. The Floyd Circuit Court was in the lawful, actual possession of the property in controversy when the bankruptcy proceeding commenced. First N~ational Bank v. U. S. Encaustic,
etc., 105 Indiana, 227; Pressley v. Lamb, 105 Indiana, 171.
The fact of actual possession is undisputed.
This proceeding in the state court is not subject to collateral
attack. Phelps v. .utual Reserve, etc., 112 Fed. Rep. 453;
Meiss v. Guerineau, 109 Indiana, 438; Hollinger v. Reeme,
138 Indiana, 363.
The suit in the state court was not under an "insolvency
law." Mfaqyer v. ilellman, 91 U. S. 496; Carling v. Seymour,
113 Fed. Rep. 483.
It is idle to say that the filing of the bill and procurement of
the appointment of a receiver was a fraud on the state court
because preferences had been given; since, in the absence of
bankruptcy proceedings, the preferences were lawful. Sandford Fork, etc., v. Howe, 157 U. S. 312, 317; . cormick v.
Smith, 127 Indiana, 230, 235. It was uncertain whether bankruptcy proceedings would ever be commenced.
2. The rules of comity between the state court and the
United States District Court sitting in bankruptcy apply in all
their breadth and force. Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612 (Bankrupt Act, 1841); -Eyster v. Gaff, 91 U. S. 521 (Bankrupt Act,
1867); Mietcalf v. Barker, 187 U. S. 165 (Bankrupt Act, 1898);
Carling v. Seymour, 113 Fed. Rep. 483.
If the possession of the state court is actual, the fact, (if it be
a fact,) that the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court is exclusive
does not warrant the latter court in taking the possession from
the state court by summary proceedings. Horan v. Sturges,
154 U. S. 256; The Oliver Jordan,2 Curtis, 414; Taylor v.
VOL. cxc-2.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Argument for Petitioner Sachs.

190 U. S.

Carryl,20 How. 583; The E. L. Cain, 45 Fed. Rep. 367; The
James Boy, 59 Fed. Rep. 784; Carling v. Seymour Lumber Co.,
(C. C. A. 5th Cir.) 113 Fed. Rep. 483, 490, 491, reversing same
case, In re .Macon,etc., in 112 Fed. Rep. 323, where the District Court seems to have held opinions similar to those of the
District Court in the case at bar. See also, Temple v. Glasgow,
(C. C. A. 4th Cir.) 80 Fed. Rep. 443-446.
3. And the fact that the suit in the state court was not based
on a valid lien is immaterial. The power of the bankruptcy
court is as plenary when there are liens as when there are not.
Rev. Stat. ยง 4972 (act 1867) ; sections 2 and 69, act 1898; Johnson v. Bishop, 1 Wool. 324; Bradley v. _Frost, 3 Dillon, 457; In
re Price, 92 Fed. Rep. 987; In 're Lingert, 110 Fed. Rep. 927;
In re Lesser, 100 Fed. Rep. 433; In re Uells, 114 Fed. Rep.
222; In re Ward, 104 Fed. Rep. 985; Smith v. Beyord, 106
Fed. Rep. 658; -Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S.
18.
For discussion of rule of comity, Covell v. Hleyman, 111 U.
S.176.
4. The act of 1898 (as well as that of 1867) provides for intervention by representative of bankruptcy court in a suit in a
state court. Section 11, sub. b and c.
5. This was actually done in case at bar by a general appearance.
6. This being done, the bankruptcy court was bound to await
the decision of the state court in the ordinary way. Peck v.
Jenness, 7 How. 612, 625; Johnson v. Bishop, 1 Wool. 324;
Doe v. Childress, 21 Wall. 643; Scott v. Kelly, 22 Wall. 57;
.Mays v. yritton, 20 Wall. 414; .Davis v. Friedlander,104 U.
S.570 ; W'inchester v. ileiskell, 119 U. S.450 ; Adams v. Crittenden, 133 U. S.296; Ludeling v. Chaffe, 143 U. S.301.
The bankruptcy court never got lawful possession of the
property. a. Because such possession as it got from the state
court's receiver was the result of a threat to take it with "a
club." b. Because the state court receiver could not deliver
lawful possession without the consent of his court. This is
elementary. Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 168; White v.
Schloerb, 178 U. S.542; -fetcayf v. Barker, 187 U. S.165; The

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

AND

SACHS.

Argument for Receiver.

E. -L. Cain, 45 Fed. Rep. 367-370; The J ames Roy, 59 Fed.
Rep. 784; iXoran v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256.
7. The amendment to the bankrupt act of February 5, 1903,
making a receivership an act of bankruptcy, is not retroactive
so as to apply to this case. All bankrupt acts have been prospective as to acts of bankruptcy. Act 1841, 5 Stat. 442; Act
1867, 14 Stat. 536; Act 1898, sec. 71; Chew Hong v. United
States, 112 U. S. 536, 559; Endlich on Statutes, 276; X cEwan
v. Den, 24 How. 245. If the amendment is not retroactive, this
receivership was not an act of bankruptcy. In re Wiaington
Hosiery Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 180; also 179.
Mr. George ff. Hester (by special leave), with whom _l'.
William Wilhartz was on the brief, for the receiver in bankruptcy of M. Zier & Co.
All state laws for the administration of insolvents' estates
and all actions and proceedings thereunder are suspended by
the enactment of the general bankruptcy law. In re Smith,
92 Fed. Rep. 135 ; Tua v. Carriere,117 U. S. 201-209 ; In re
Bruss-Pitter Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 651; Lea v. George X!. West
Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 237; In re Rouse, Hazard & Co., 91 Fed.
Rep. 96; Lothrop v. Hlighland -Foundry Co., 128 Massachusetts, 120; Parmenter Affg. Co. v. Hamilton, 172 Massachusetts, 178; ifrarbaugh v. Costello, 184 Illinois, 110; In re Gutwillig, 90 Fed. Rep. 475.
The jurisdiction of the Federal courts over the administration of insolvent estates is exclusive and supreme. In re Norchants ]hsurance Co., 6 N. B. R. 43 ; In re Smith, 92 Fed. Rep.
135; ifarbaugh v. Costelo, 184 Illinois, 110; Watson v. Bank,
11 N. B. R. 161.
The Bankruptcy Act of 1898 authorizes the District Court
"to make such orders, issue such process and enter such judgments in addition to those specifically provided for as may be
necessary for the enforcement of this act."
The jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court being supreme, it
may properly, by summary process, obtain possession of property in the hands of an assignee or other officer of a state court.
In re John A, Etheridge Furniture Co., 92 Fed. Rep. 329;

OCTOBER TERM, 1902'
Argument for Receiver.

190 U. S.

White v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Bryan v. Bernleimer, 181
U. S. 188; -Mueller v. N-e gent, 184: U. S. 1; in re Tune, 115,
Fed. Rep. 906; In re Green Pond R. Co., 13 N. B. 1. 118;
Fed. Gas. No. 5786; In Se Safe Deposit and Say. Inst., 7 N.
B. R. 392; Fed. Cas. No. 12,211; in re Washington Marine
Ins. Co., 2 Ben. 292; Fed. Cas. No. 17,246; In re Merchants
12s. Co., 3 Biss. 162; Fed. Cas. No. 9441; Inre National Life
Ins. Co., 6 Biss. 25; Fed. Gas. No. 10,046; in re lVkifle, 6
Biss. 516; Fed. Gas. No. 17,512; In re Smith, 92 Fed. Rep.
135; ClarNke v. Larremore, 188 U. S. 486.
Summary proceedings are also authorized to take property
from the hands of a receiver of a state court. In re Merchants
ins. Co., 6 N. B. R. 43; In re Lengert IFagon Co., 110 Fed.
Rep. 927; In re Storok Lumber Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 360; in re
Bruss-Ritter Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 651; Platt v. Archer, 9 Blackf.
559; Fed. Cas. No. 11,215.
The proceeding in the state court for the appointment of a
receiver of M. Zier & Co. was, in substance, a voluntary assignment, or bankruptcy proceeding. Every asset of the insolvent was placed by it in the hands of the receiver selected
by it. The purpose was the distribution of these assets among
all its creditors. In re John A. Etheridge Furniture Co., 92
Fed. Rep. 329 ; In re Storolo Lumber Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 360.
The cases at bar do not involve either the question of property held by adverse claim, or that of a lien attaching more
than four months previous to the bankruptcy proceedings.
The following cases relied on by the petitioners are not, therefore, in point: Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 625; Louisville Trust
Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18; Metcalf v. Barker, 187 U. S.
165.
The state court having no jurisdiction whatever after the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, it had no power to hear and
determine the question of whether or not it would relinquish
the property. It became its duty to do so at once, upon being
informed of the proceedings in the United States court, and
every step taken thereafter with reference to the property and
its custody was coram nonjudice.
If a receiver is appointed by a Federal court and actually

In re WATrTS
190 U. S.

AND

SACHS.

Argument for the United States.

takes possession of the property, possession will not be yielded
to a receiver subsequently appointed by a state court, although
the suit in the state court was commenced before that in the
Federal court. East Tenn., Virginia,& G. R?. Co. v. A. & T7.
R. Co., 49 Fed. Rep. 608; Central Trust Co. of ff. Y. v.
C],attanooga,1. Co., 69 Fed. Rep. 950.
Where a state court has no jurisdiction over property and
loses the actual possession thereof to the Federal court, there
remains no possession by the state court, either actual or constructive. The Willamette Valley, 62 Fed. Rep. 293; 66 Fed.
Rep. 565; 2lforan v. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256, 293.
Where there is neither actual nor constructive possession
there can. be no obstacle to proceeding summarily, and an action thus taken cannot be invalidated by relation. Moran v.
Sturges, 154 U. S. 256, 284.
The bankruptcy court having been given voluntary and
peaceable possession, the question of comity between the courts
is not involved, except as it applies to the action of the state
court in retaking the property. It is a question of the supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the United States. In Pe
Time, 115 Fed. Rep. 906; East Tenib., etc., 1. Co. v. A. & T.
R. Co., 49 Fed. Rep. 608.
Where property is in the custody of the bankruptcy court,
no other court, and no person acting under any process from
any other court, can, without the permission of the bankruptcy court, interfere with it; and to so interfere is -a contempt of the bankruptcy court. 1n re Vogle, 7 Blackford, 18 ;
-Moranv. Sturges, 154 U. S. 256; Freeman v. -Howe, 24 How.
450, 459.
. r. Solicitor General -Hoytfor the United States.
I. The argument of counsel for petitioners relates exclusively to the manner in which the District Court exercised its
jurisdiction over the property in dispute.
The power of a bankruptcy court to enforce its jurisdiction
by contempt proceedings is unquestioned. Whether the facts
presented warranted petitioners' conviction and the punishment
imposed, were matters within the judgment of the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for the United States.

190 U. S.

Court to determine, as they are within the power and discretion
of this court to review. Acts similar to those committed by petitioners have been held to constitute contempt in the following cases: In re Vogel, 2 N. B. R. 427; Fed. Gas. 16,983; in
re Ulrich, 8 N. B. R. 15; Fed. Gas. 14,328; Jn re ]2itchdield,
13 Fed. Rep. 186; Expvarte Davis, 112 Fed. Rep. 139; Royal
Trust Co. v. Washburn, etc., Ry.Co., 113 Fed. Rep. 531. See
particularly Anderson v. Comptois, 48 0. C. A. 1, and note,
p. '7; also reported in 109 Fed. Rep. 971.
II. Upon the filing of the petition in bankruptcy the jurisdiction of the District Court immediately attached, and was
exclusive. In re Merchants' Ins. Co., 6 N. B. R. 43 ; In re
Lady Bryan 1 ining Co., 6 N. B. R. 252; Watson v. Citizens'
Savings Bank, 11 N. B. R. 161; In Pe Gutwillig, 90 Fed. Rep.
475 ; In re Bruss-Ritter Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 651 ; In re Rouse &
Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 96 ; -Leav. George ill. Mest Co., 91 Fed. Rep.
237 ; In re Smith, 92 Fed. Rep. 135 ; In re Etheridge EFurnituqe Co., 92 Fed. Rep. 329; In re Richard, 94 Fed. Rep. 633;
in re Lengert Wagon. Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 927; In re Storeck
.Lumber Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 360; ParmenterXjfg. Co. v. -Hamilton, 172 Massachusetts, 178; Harbaugh v. Costello, 184 Illinois, 110.
Only a pretense of argument is made against the jurisdiction
of the District Court over the property of the bankrupts.
Within four months prior to the filing of the petition they had
committed acts of bankruptcy by making preferences denounced by the statute. Besides, the amendment of February 5, 1903, to the Bankruptcy Act makes the appointment of
a receiver by a state court because of insolvency an act of
bankruptcy. That amendment is on its face retroactive, and
applies to a case where a receiver "has been" appointed within
four months of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy. In
the original act, a retroactive effect was expressly provided
against, and proceedings commenced under state insolvency
laws before its passage were explicitly not to be affected, but
the amendatory act contains no such provision.
That the jurisdiction of the District Court is not seriously
attacked, is shown by the fact that opposing counsel frankly

in re WATTS AND SACHS.
190 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

state that the question here is not as to the right of possession,
but of proper procedure.
III. The question as to the authority of a bankruptcy court
summarily to take property over which it has acquired jurisdiction from the possession of a state court or its officers, does
not arise on this record. The District Court did not summarily
seize the property but the same was voluntarily surrendered
to its receiver. The fact that the receiver of the state court
make the transfer, does not affect the
was not authorized tro
legality of the possession received by the District Court, but
was a matter wholly between the state court and its receiver.
An order of the state court directing the surrender of the property could give the District Court no additional right to the
possession. That right was already perfect.
IV. Assuming, however, for the sake of argument, that the
property was summarily taken from the state court, it is apparent that, under the decisions of this court, sunmary action
in such a case was authorized. The attitude of the state court
toward the Federal court is indicated by the order enjoining
the bankrupt's creditors from proceeding in any other court.
The attempt to defeat the jurisdiction of the District Court
is evident.
The necessity for prompt and forcible action by the Federal
courts, in order to enforce the provisions of the National Bankruptcy Law, when one exists, even as against the state courts,
is recognized by section -720 of the Revised Statutes, which provides:
"The writ of injunction shall not be granted by any court of
the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State,
except in cases where such injunction may be authorized by
any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy."
Among the powers conferred upon the courts of bankruptcy
by section 2 of the act of 1898, are-" to (15) make such orders,
issue such process, and enter such judgments, in addition to
those specifically provided for, as may be necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this act." 30 Stat. 546.
The twelfth geijeral order in bankruptcy provides: "3. Apfor an injunction to stay proceedings of a
.
.
plications

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Argument for the United States.

190 U. S.

court or officer of the United States, or of a State, shall be
heard and decided by the judge."
And section 2, clause 3, of the act of July 1, 1898, authorizes
courts of bankruptcy to "appoint receivers or the marshals,
upon application of parties in interest, in case the courts shall
find it absolutely necessary, for the preservation of estates, to
take charge of the property of bankrupts after the filing of the
petition and until it is dismissed or the trustee is qualified."
A forced conception of what constitutes "proper procedure"
should not, therefore, be allowed to defeat the Federal jurisdiction.
V. It is not asserted that the rule of comity does not apply
to bankruptcy cases. On the contrary, the importance of a due
observance of that rule is fully recognized. Put it is contended
that the rule of comity has its limitations: that it is not so
one-sided as to operate only on the Federal court, and that it
ceases to apply when the state court becomes remiss in its
duty.
Counsel urge that the proper course is to appeal to the highest
court of the State, and thence, if necessary, to this court. In
the meantime the property of the bankrupt might be dissipated
or destroyed. It would be curious, indeed, if the administration of the National Bankruptcy Law could be thus defeated
by a state court. What would then become of the supremacy
of the Constitution and laws of the United States? Iow does
this view agree with the "incontrovertible principle that the
Government of the United States may, by means of physical
force, exercised through its official agents, execute on every
foot of American soil the powers and functions that belong to
it?" Exparte Siebold, 100 U. S. 395.
The doctrine of Peck v. Jenness, 7 Ilow. 611, and Johns n
v. Bisho2 , Woolworth, 324, is not so much a rule of comity as
a rule of law, and applies only to cases in which the state court
had full and complete jurisdiction, or where the jurisdiction of
the state court is concurrent, such as suits to enforce valid preexisting liens, or suits by assignees in bankruptcy to recover
property of a bankrupt in the hands of an adverse claimant.
VI. But the authority of receivers or marshals in bankruptcy

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

AND

SAHS.

Argument for the United States.

is not to be measured by that of assignees under the act of
1867 or trustees under the present act.
The observation in Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S.
531, that courts of bankruptcy could hardly be considered as
empowered by the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act to authorize receivers or marshals forcibly to seize property in the
hands of adverse claimants, was stated to have been an inadvertence and therefore withdrawn in the subsequent case of
Bryan v. Bernhe rner, 181 U. S. 189, 197.
It seems plain that in Bryan v. Bernheimer, the court perceived that, since receivers or marshals were only to be appointed "in case it is necessary for the preservation of the
property of the bankrupt," the right to authorize them to proceed summarily might in some cases be absolutely essential to
the accomplishment of that purpose.
In Whitie v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542, it was held that the
District Court sitting in bankruptcy had authority, by summary proceedings, to compel the return of property taken from
it on a writ of replevin from a state court, sued out after the
jurisdiction of the District Court had attached. It is true that
in fetealf v. Barker, 187 U. S. 165, the court said that "this
sustaing, as far as it goes, the concautious utterance . .
verse of the proposition when presented by a different state of
facts." In White v. chloerl the District Court, at the time of
the seizure of the property by the state court, not only had the
possession of the property, but the right of possession as well.
In the present case, at the time of the alleged seizure of the
property by the District Court, the state court had absolutely
no right of possession. In this respect it may indeed be said
that this case is the converse of W7hite v. Sctloerb.
The destinction between cases where the state court has jurisdiction and where it has none, was pointed out in Clarke v.
Larremore, 188 U. S. 486, decided February 23, 1903. In that
case the right of the bankruptcy court to enjoin the officers of
a state court and summarily take possession of property in their
hands, when necessary to the enforcement of the exclusive jurisdiction in bankruptcy, is distinctly recognized.
The possession of the state court was in virtue of the title

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

of this bankrupt. A mere refusal to surrender does not constitute an adverse holding. Mueller v. NSugent, 184 U. S. 1.
VII. The possession of the District Court being coupled with
exclusive right, could not afterwards be disturbed, even by the
court from which it was taken, unless it be that two wrongs
make a right. In no case has it been held that a court which
has been summarily dispossessed by another court having the
exclusive right of possession, may retake what it has no further
right to hold. It is futile to say thAt the "constructive possession" remains in the state court. Constructive possession
is necessarily dependent on the right of possession, and at the
time of the recaption, the right of possession, as well as the actual possession, was in the District Court.
Mv[R. CHIEF JUSTiCE FULLER,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
In this matter writs of certiorari as well as of habeas corpus
were issued, and the record returned to us includes the evidence
below, which was duly preserved by bill of exceptions. The
District Court held that a flagrant contempt of the court in
bankruptcy was committed on the twentieth of February by
the taking of the property of Zier & Company out of the possession of its receiver, in whose hands, in the view of the court, it
had been voluntarily placed; and that defendants Watts and
Sachs were so connected with that transaction as to subject
them to like condemnation.
The New Albany Trust Company was appointed receiver of
the property of Zier & Company under section 1245 of the
Revised Statutes of Indiana, Thornton's Rev. Stat. of 1897,
providing that this might be done, "when a corporation has
been dissolved, or is insolvent, or is in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights;" and it was
directed to complete unfinished contracts but to make no new
ones. The winding up of the business was contemplated and
entered upon. Whether the transfers of $3100 and $9600 could
have been overhauled in that suit we need not inquire, as they
were undoubtedly acts of bankruptcy, and as such justified the

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

AND

SACHS.

Opinion of the Court.

application to the bankruptcy court. And the operation of
the bankruptcy laws of the United States cannot be defeated
by insolvent commercial corporations applying to be wound up
under state statutes. The bankruptcy law is paramount, and
the jurisdiction of the Federal courts in bankruptcy, when properly invoked, in the administration of the affairs of insolvent
persons and corporations, is essentially exclusive. Necessarily
by
when lke proceedings in the state courts are determined
to
has
care
bankruptcy,
in
the commencement of proceedings
possession
in
property
be taken to avoid collision in respect of
of the state courts. Such cases are not cases of adverse possession, or of possession in enforcement of preexisting liens, or in
The general rule as
aid of the bankruptcy proceedings.
between courts of concurrent jurisdiction is that property already in possession of the receiver of one court cannot rightfully be taken from him without the court's consent, by the
receiver of another court appointed in a subsequent suit, but
that rule can have only a qualified application where winding
up proceedings are superseded by those in bankruptcy as to
which the jurisdiction is not concurrent. Still it obtains as a
rule of comity, and accordingly the receiver of the District
Court brought his appointment to the knowledge of the Floyd
Circuit Court and requested the delivery of the assets.
We think there can be no reasonable doubt that the judge
of the Floyd Circuit Court and Messrs. Watts and Sachs entertained the conviction in good faith that the custody of the
state court could not be lawfully interfered with by the bankruptcy court by summary proceedings. Their view was that
the jurisdiction of the state court having attached, that court
was, in all circumstances, entitled to exercise it until voluntarily
surrendered. But if the state court had taken into consideration that Zier & Company had committed acts of bankruptcy
in the matter of preferential transfers; that the amendatory
bankruptcy act of February 5, 1903, provided that acts of
bankruptcy would exist if a person "being insolvent, applied
for a receiver or trustee for his property or because of insolvency a receiver or trustee has been put in charge of his property under the laws of a State, of a Territory, or of the United

OCTOBER TEIZAM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

States;" and that the intent of the bankruptcy law is to place
the administration of affairs of insolvents exclusively under the
jurisdiction of the bankruptcy courts, it appears to us that
instead of continuing the application of the Federal receiver
for three weeks, the court should have directed the surrender
of the property to him at once, or at least after the report of
its own receiver on returning from Indianapolis.
The state court, however, did not approve of the a~surance
given by its receiver at Indianapolis, and refused to allow the
surrender of possession, so that the delivery to Connor by the
Trust Company presently made was unauthorized by the court,
whose receiver and officer the Trust Company was.
We are not now dealing with the right of the District Court to
take possession in invitirn, but with the voluntary delivery
of property by the officer of a court, without the court's consent, and, therefore, unlawful. We say, " voluntary," for we
decline to entertain the suggestion that the District Court intimidated the Trust Company and Watts, or that members of
the bar can be intimidated in the discharge of their duty.
It is true that the state court had authorized the Trust Company and Mr. Watts to appear at Indianapolis and explain the
situation, but in doing so it was attempted to limit the operation of the order to a special appearance in the bankruptcy
court, while by the order continuing the Federal receiver's application it was attempted to make him a party to the proceedings in the state court and bound by them. Obviously the state
court did not wish its receiver to be bound by going before the
District Court, and did wish the receiver of the District Court
to be bound by his appearance in the state court.
On the other hand the District Court made an order on February 17, which recited the presence of the Trust Company
and of Watts, the voluntary offer of the Trust Company, with
the approval of Watts, in open court, to surrender possession,
and then directed Connor to present a certified copy of the
order of February 11 to the Trust Company, and thereupon to
take possession. Mr. Watts had no notice or knowledge of this
order until February 23, and Sachs first saw it on that day,
though he was informed of its existence February 22.

In r WATTS
190 U. S.

AND

SACHS.

Opinion of the Court.

The situation February 19 was this: The Trust Company
and Watts were under rules to show cause for disregard of the
orders of the state court. One had done, and the other had advised the doing, that which the state court had not consented
to, and it was after it had signified its disapproval that the
District Court receiver obtained possession without such consent. The state court thereupon concluded that it was entitled
to restore the status quo, and accordingly it entered the orders
of February 20, under which Connor was dispossessed.
This was a reassertion of the jurisdiction which the state court
insisted it was entitled to exercise, that it had not voluntarily
parted with, or been lawfully deprived of.
The petitioners were sentenced to imprisonment for contempt
because of their alleged participation in this action of the state
court.
It is the action of the state court that was complained of, and
the essence of the alleged contempt was that, assuming that
action was taken pursuant to the advice of these attorneys,
they were liable to condemnation for giving such advice. In
the ordinary case of advice to clients, if an attorney acts in
good faith and in the honest belief that his advice is well
founded and in the just interests of his client, he cannot be held
liable for error in judgment. The preservation of the independence of the bar is too vital to the due administration of justice
to allow of the application of any other general rule.
But here we do not have the ordinary case of advice to
clients, but the case of judicial action alleged to have been induced by the advice complained of. The theory of the condemnation is that of conspiracy between the state court and
the attorneys to obstruct the administration of justice and to
bring the authority of the United States court into contempt.
We are of opinion that such charges ought never to be indulged in, and that the ultimate consequences of attacks of such
a character by the courts of one government on the courts of
another are too serious to allow them to be made.
The state court was a court of original general jurisdiction.
On the face of its record its jurisdiction had been properly.
invoked and been properly exercised and was not open to col-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

lateral attack. Assuming that the proceedings in bankruptcy
superseded further proceedings in the state court, and that
nothing remained for the latter but to direct the surrender of
the assets and the winding up of the accounts, the District
Court was of opinion that it might by summary proceedings
take the assets out of the possession of the state court. But
Connor's possession was not acquired in that way. The contention is that the property was given up voluntarily by the
state court receiver and not in obedience to any order entered
on summary proceedings to which that receiver was a party.
And the difficulty is that the receiver had no power to make
the surrender when it was made. It was the representative of
the state court. The property in its hands was property in
custodia 7egis, and it had only such authority as was given to
it by the court, and could not exceed the limits prescribed by
the court. Without doubt the receiver agreed to give up the
property in its hands to the receiver of the court in bankruptcy
on the supposition that the state court would assent to its
doing so. But the state court took a different view, and therefore the possession of Connor was from its standpoint a wrongful possession.
In order to the adequate enforcement of the provisions of
the bankruptcy law, it is necessary that the powers of courts
in bankruptcy should be, as they are, most comprehensive.
Section 720 of the Revised Statutes provides: "The writ of
injunction shall not be granted by any court of the United
States to stay proceedings in an.), court of a State, except in
cases where such injunction may be authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy."
By section two of the bankruptcy act of 1898 the bankruptcy
courts are empowered to "(3) appoint receivers or the marshals,
upon application of parties in interest, in case the courts shall
find it absolutely necessary, for the preservation of estates, to
take charge of the property of bankrupts after the filing of the
petition and until it is dismissed or the trustee is qualified ;"
"(13) enforce obedience by bankrupts, officers, and
other persons to all lawful orders, by fine or imprisonment or
rfle and imprisonment;"
.
.
(15) make such orders,

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

AND

SACHS.

Opinion of the Court.

issue such process, and enter such judgments in addition to
those specifically provided for as may be necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this act."
The twelfth general order in bankruptcy provides: "3. Applications . . . for an injunction to stay proceedings of a
court or officer of the United States or of a State shall be
heard and decided by the judge."
But no writ of injunction as such was granted in this case.
The order of February 11, for the appointment of a receiver,
provided that the Trust Company should deliver up the property to the Federal receiver and should refrain from interfering with his possession and control of the same. That order
was entered on the application of the Inland Steel Company,
which had appeared in the state court at the creditors' meeting
of January 24, and had interposed no objection to the order
then entered for the completion of pending contracts and the
running of the plant for that purpose. It was one of the contentions in support of the jurisdiction of the state court that
the Inland Steel Company was thereby estopped from resorting to the bankruptcy court and obtaining the appointment of
a receiver there. In Simonson v. Sinsheimer, 95 Fed. iRep.
948, it was held by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit, in a careful opinion by Taft, J., that a creditor might
be estopped from filing a petition in involuntary bankruptcy,
in the circumstances therein detailed, and n re Curtis,91 Fed.
Rep. 737, and 94 Fed. Rep. 630, in which a different conclusion was reached, was distinguished. We express no opinion
on the matter, but it should be noted, in passing, as one of the
elements of controversy entering into the views of counsel in
the state court.
The completion of contracts by the state receiver and the
procuring of materials therefor had been authorized at the
creditors' meeting, in which the petitioning creditor participated, and the work had been entered upon, and it is possible
that a state of facts might have existed which would involve
the application of the doctrine of estoppel to some extent.
We do not understand it to be contended that the passage
of the bankruptcy act in itself suspended the statute of Indiana

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

in relation to the appointment of receivers, but only that when
the proceedings for such appointment took the form, as they
did here, of winding up the affairs of the insolvent corporation,
the proceedings in bankruptcy displaced those in the state court
and terminated the jurisdiction of the latter. But the acceptance of that view does not necessarily involve the concession
that these attorneys were guilty of contempt of the District
Court because of the action of the state court.
They could not be found guilty because they believed and
declared their belief that the state court had jurisdiction and
that the District Court had not. Granting that they were mistaken, it does not follow that their mistaken conviction constituted contempt. In point of fact the state court agreed with
them, and would certainly not have entered orders of whose
validity it entertained any reasonable doubt.
The distinction between the exclusive jurisdiction of the
court in bankruptcy, proceeding, as it were in rem, to determine the status of a debtor and his assets, and the jurisdiction
over property subjected to particular liens, and the like, exercised by courts of concurrent jurisdiction, was probably thought
by them not to apply in the circumstances existing here, and
advice based on that opinion could not in itself constitute contempt.
What evidence is there that these attorneys, or either of
them, gave any advice or took any action in bad faith, not in
the honest discharge of their duty as counsel, but with the deliberate intent to have the Federal court set at defiance and its
orders treated with contempt?
When Mr. Watts returned from Indianapolis he had been
disabused of his conviction that the District Court would modify
its order of February 11, when fully informed of the actual
situation of the suit in the state court, and the participation
in the proceedings therein of the creditor on whose application
that order had been granted, and he appears to have earnestly
sought to bring about the delivery over of the property, the
discharge of the Trust Company, and the withdrawal from the
record of the petition and order of February 14.
But he realized, when about to appear before the state court,

In re WATTS
190 U. S.

AN D

SACHS.

Opinion of the Court.

that his promise to endeavor to bring about the surrender of
the property had been made under the pressure of expediency,
and not by reason of change of judgment, and that he had
placed himself in the embarrassing position of acting without
leave and in disregard of the limitations of the order he had
himself framed and procured to be entered. This led him to
request Mr. Sachs to accompany him as his friend to New Albany, and assist in representing his situation in as favorable a
light as possible to the state court. It is not disputed that Mr.
Sachs visited New Albany solely in obedience to the dictates
of friendship, and that he had no connection whatsoever with
the litigation.
The result was, however, and it might well have been anticipated, that it appeared to the state court that its jurisdiction
had been treated cavalierly by the attorney who had represented the original complainant, who had insisted that the
court retained jurisdiction, and who could not deny that he
was of the same opinion still. It was then, and on the twentieth, that Mr. Sachs, without the assent or connivance of Mr.
Watts, unless suspicion be allowed to supply the want of proof,
signed and verified a certain statement by the United States
Tube Company, which represented that the Trust Company
had "wrongfully, unlawfully and without leave of this court"
turned over the possession to Connor, and prayed for its removal, and the appointment of a successor. This statement is
recited in the order of that date entered by the judge of the
state court, disallowing the application of the Trust Company
to resign because of its action "without leave or permission,"
and stating That "the judge of this court, upon his own motion
and because of the open contempt of said receiver for the orders, judgment and process of this court, does now order and
direct that said receiver be and it is hereby removed from its
trust." The Trust Company was ordered to account immediately for all the assets, and Kelso was appointed as receiver in
succession by the judge "upon his own motion," and directed
to demand possession of the property, and in case of refusal to
report to the judge for further action in the premises. This
was followed by the qualification of the new receiver, the deVOL. cxc-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

mand on Connor, the report of his refusal, the issue of the writ
to the sheriff, and its execution.
Ur. Sachs testified that on the 19th the judge of the Circuit
Court insisted on retaining the property and in declining to
approve of the promise Mr. Watts had made; that when it was
known that 4he property had been delivered the judge still
declined to discharge Mr. Watts; that on the forenoon of the
20th the judge announced that he had made up his mind to
remove the Trust Company and appoint another receiver; that
he, Sachs, expressed the opinion that if the judge did that the
better procedure would be for the new receiver to interplead
in the District Court, setting up all the facts from the beginning and obtaining a determination in that court; that the
judge asked Kelso to bring the facts in respect of the delivery
of the plant to the official knowledge of the court, when he
would remove the Trust Company and appoint Kelso. That
in the afternoon Kelso desired him to sign the statement bringing the facts to the court's notice, which he, Kelso, objected
to doing, because he was to be appointed receiver, and Sachs
signed it supposing the course to be followed would be an application to the District Court in the nature of an interpleader;
that he did not know what became of the paper and did not
know, until after the commencement of the pending proceedings, what order had been entered upon it; that he did not
know that any proceedings were contemplated or in course of
preparation or prepared with the view of retaking the property; and did not advise or assist in any such, or believe any
such would be undertaken.
In seeking to extricate Mr. Watts from his anomalous position, Sachs found himself involved, by the attitude of the
state court, in similar embarrassment, for the state court adhered to its views as to jurisdiction, and insisted that it had
never voluntarily yielded the position it occupied, which afforded the basis for testing the question. It does not seem to
have occurred to Sachs that the mere effort to get an issue
which could be transmitted to the District Court for determination subject to petition for review or such other appellate
remedy as the bankruptcy act provided, could be regarded as

It
190 U. S.

re WATTS

AND

SACHS.

Opinion of the Court.

contempt of that court, and want of intention to commit contempt is entitled to great weight in such circumstances.
There is some conflict of evidence as to Sachs' participation
by way of suggestion in the preparation of papers on the
twentieth, or knowledge of the preparation of the final order
and writ, but, without attempting to review the evidence and
pass upon its weight, we find nothing in this conflict to justify
the conclusion of an intention to contemn.
State courts are entitled to the assistance of the gentlemen
of the bar in the maintenance of their dignity and jurisdiction,
and the fearless discharge of their duty by the latter should not
be shaken by liability to punishment for mere errors of judgment in rendering such assistance.
The presumption on the verified response and plea of Sachs,
which was sustained by his testimony, was that he had not
been in any way a party to the dispossession of Connor, and
had not advised it or expected it; that he not only had not
intended any contempt, but had committed none. And as the
record of the state court showed that the orders were entered
by the judge of that court "upon his own motion," that presumption could not be overthrown without collaterally impeaching the record, and that we think was inadmissible.
It has been already assumed that the bankruptcy proceedings operated to suspend the further administration of the insolvent's estate in the state court, but it remained for the state
court to transfer the assets, settle the accounts of its receiver
and close its connection with the matter. Errors, if any, committed in so doing could be rectified in due course and in the
designated way.
We cannot but express our regret at the unfortunate collision between the two courts and the belief that the considerate observance of the rule of comity is adequate to avert such
occurrences.
We are of opinion that there was no legal evidence to sustain these convictions for contempt, and the order in each case
must be
Petitioner discharged.

