OCTOBER TERMI, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

There must be judgment overruling the demurrer, but as
the defendant may desire to set up facts which it might claim
would be a defence to the complainant's bill, we grant leave to
the defendant to answer up to the first day of the next term
of this court. In case it refuses to plead further, the judgment will be in favor of the United States for an accounting
and for the payment of the sum found due thereon.
Demurrer overruled and leave to answer given, etc.

CONLEY ov. MATHIESOT ALKALI WORKS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 238. Argued April 15,16, 1903.-Decided May 18,1903.
Granting the existence of a cause of action, it is not every service upon an
officer of a corporation which will give a state court jurisdiction of a
foreign corporation. The residence of an officer of a corporation does
not necessarily give the corporation a domicil in the State. He must

be there officially, representing the corporation in its business.

Goldey

v. Mforning -Aews, 156 LT. S. 518.
Service in New York of a summons upon a director of a foreign corporation
who resides in New York is not sufficient to bring the corporation into
court where, at the time of service, the corporation was not doing business in the State of New York.
See also Geer v. Mathieson Alkali Works, post, p. 428.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.MXr. William 1W. XfacFarlandfor plaintiff in error.
-Mr.Alfred Ely for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff is a citizen of the State of New York, and the
defendant was incorporated in the State of Virginia. The plain.

CONLEY v. MATHIESON ALKALI WORKS.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tiff as assignee of T. T. Mathieson brought this action in the
Supreme Court of New York County, State of New York,
against the defendant for moneys alleged to be due on a contract made and entered into by iathieson and defendant. The
complaint alleged that the contract was made in the city of New
York on the 15th of August, 1893. The articles of agreement
show that Mathieson's employment was as general superintendent for the term of eight years, in the erection and general
management of the works of the corporation, "and also of their
operation, after the same shall have been erected." The defendant had designated no agent upon whom service could have
been made, and summons was served on IR.T. Wilson and John
G. Agar, two members of the board of directors of the corporation, both residents of the city of New York. They were not
officers of the company. Before the time for answer had expired, on defendant's motion the cause was transferred to the
United States Circuit Court for the Southern District of New
York. A motion was made in that court to set aside the summons and service as null and void. Affidavits were presented
by both parties, and ruling on them the court said that if the
facts stated by the affidavits of the defendant were true, that
at the time of the service of the summons and for some months
before defendant corporation had ceased to do business in the
State, the motion should be granted. But it was said that "the
affidavits of complainant are mainly on information and belief,
but annexed to them is a letter, the genuineness of which is not
questioned, which bears date March 15, 1901, (two months and
a half after the alleged cessation of business at Niagara Falls,)
and signed by the treasurer of the defendant corporation, in
which he speaks of the plant at Niagara Falls as still being operated by the defendant. Under these circumstances the court
would not be warranted in granting this motion, in view of the
conflict of fact. If, however, the defendant feels assured that
the apparent discrepancy can be explained, and is willing to
pay the expenses of a reference, it may be sent to a master to
take testimony and report to the court whether or not at the
time of the service of the summons the defendant corporation
was doing business within this State."

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

A reference to the master was made. After taking testimony (which occupies sixty-two pages of the record), the master reported that, beside its plant at Saltville, the defendant,
prior to December 31, 1900, owned and operated a plant for
the manufacture of caustic soda and bleaching powder by electricity, located at Niagara Falls, under a patented process,
known as the Castner electrolytic process; that on the 31st of
December, 1900, it conveyed this plant and all of the property
of the defendant, of every kind and description, to the Castner
Electrolytic Alkali Company, a corporation organized under
the laws of Virginia; that the consideration expressed for the
conveyance was one dollar and other valuable considerations,
but that the substantial consideration was the entire capital
stock of the Castner Electrolytic Alkali Company; that the
selling agent for the products manufactured at Niagara Falls,
before and after the transfer, was Arnold Hoffman & Co., a corporation organized under the laws of Rhode Island, and had
and has its principal place of business in Providence, in that
State; that said company was and is the selling agent for the
Saltville products, with some exceptions, and that said corporation has a branch office in the city of New York, but the business dealings of the defendant corporation and of the Castner
Company with Arnold Hoffman & Co. are carried on through its
Providence office; that the defendant, since a period prior to the
31st day of December, 1900, had, and still has, its principal place
of business in the city of Providence, and that its books and records are kept there, and it has also an office force, consisting of
several employ~s, that its bank account is also kept in said city
and that it has no office in the State of :New York-none of its
books, records or accounts are kept there, nor has it, since January 1, 1901, sold any of its products there; that a by-law of
the company, adopted in 1896, provided that the directors
should hold monthly meetings in the city of New York, on the
second Wednesday of each and every month in each year, but
that it did not appear, however, that meetings had been held in
compliance with the by-laws, the fact being that they were held
sometimes in Saltville and sometimes in Providence, and, during the year 1901, at least, were held not more than two or

CONLEY v. MATHIESON ALKALI WORKS.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

three times in New York city, and then at the branch office of
Arnold Hoffman & Co., or at the office of R. T. Wilson & Co.,
bankers, in Wall street, a member of which firm was a director
of the defendant company, and one of its principal stockholders ; that the admissions in a letter of the treasurer of the company, March 15, 1901, "are fully explained by the fact that it
followed earlier correspondence in which the plan for disposing
of the plant at Niagara Falls for the stock of a new company
was brought to the attention of Mr. Pell," the president, to
whom the letter was addressed. The master's report concluded
as follows:
"Upon the facts thus outlined, it does not appear that the
defendant corporation was, at the time of the service of the
summons herein, viz., April 18, 1901, doing business within this
State.
"The fact that it held the entire capital stock of the Castner
Electrolytic Alkali Company and that the operations of that
company were carried on under the same management as before
December 31, 1900, is not material. The new corporation was
a separate legal entity, and whatever may have been the motives leading to its creation it can only be regarded as such for
the purposes of legal proceedings.
"It was that corporation alone which transacted any business in this State, notwithstanding it may have been for all
practical purposes merely the instrument of the defendant
corporation. People v. Am.. Bell Telephone Co., 117 N. Y.
241; United State8 v. The Same, 29 Fed. Rep. 17."
The plaintiff excepted to the report, the rulings of the master
on the admission of testimony, and to his conclusions. The
report was affirmed and the service of summons set aside and
declared null and void. This ruling is assigned as error.
The fundamental proposition of plaintiff in error is that the
state court had jurisdiction of the defendant in error, and that
therefore the Circuit Court of the United States had jurisdiction. To sustain the jurisdiction of the state court subdivision 3
of section 432 and section 1780 of the Code of Civil Procedure
of the State are cited. Subdivision 1 of section 432 provides
for service upon certain enumerated officers of a foreign corpo-

OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

ration; subdivision 2 provides for the designation of a person
by the corporation upon whom process may be served. Subdivision 3 i§ as follows:
"If such a designation is not in force, or if neither the person
designated, nor an officer specified in subdivision first of this
section, can be found with due diligence, and the corporation
has property within the State, or the cause of action arose
therein; to the cashier, a director, or a managing agent of the
corporation, within the State."
Section 1780 is as follows:
"SEc. 1780. An action against a foreign corporation may be
maintained by a resident of the State, or by a domestic corporation, for any cause of action. An action against a foreign
corporation may be maintained by another foreign corporation, or by a non-resident, in one of the following cases only :
"1. Where the action is brought to recover damages for the
breach of a contract, made within the State, or relating to property situated within the State, at the time of the making
thereof.
"2. Where it is brought to recover real property situated
within the State, or a chattel, which is replevied within the State.
"3. Where the cause of action arose within the State, except
where the object of the action is to affect the title to real property situated without the State."
These sections, it is insisted, gave the state court jurisdiction,
and that it follows that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
But granting the existence of a cause of action, it is not every
service upon an officer of a corporation which will give the
state court jurisdiction of a foreign corporation. This was declared in Goldey v. ]oraing Vews, 156 U. S. 518. The case
arose in INew York, and the question presented was "whether,
in a personal action against a corporation which neither is incorporated nor does business within the State, nor has any
agent or property therein, service of the summons upon its
president, temporarily within the jurisdiction, is sufficient service upon the corporation."
As there was a difference between the rulings of the state
court of New York and the Circuit Courts of the United States

CONLEY v. MATHIESON ALKALI WORKS.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

on the question, it was elaborately considered "upon principle
and in the light of previous decisions of this court." The decisions were examined and the question was answered in the
negative, and it was announced, as "an elementary principle
of jurisprudence, that a court of justice cannot acquire jurisdiction over the person of one who has no residence within its
territorial jurisdiction, except by actual service of notice within
the jurisdiction upon him or upon some one authorized to accept service in his behalf, or by his waiver, by general appearance or otherwise, of the want of due service. Whatever
effect a constructive service may be allowed in the courts of
the same government, it cannot be recognized as valid by the
courts of any other government." It was also held that the
defendant by filing a petition for removal did not waive defects
in the service of summons, and that objection could be made to
such service in the Circuit Court of the United States in the
same manner as if the action had been originally commenced
there. Goldey v. forning -ews was affirmed in Wabash
Wfestern Railway v. Brow, 1641U. S. 271.
The principle announced in Goldey v. Aforning NWews covers
the case at bar. The residence of an officer of a corporation
does not necessarily give the corporation a domicile in the State.
He must be there officially-there representing the corporation
in its business. St. Claii- v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350. In other
words, a corporation must be doing business there, and, recognizing the necessity of this, the Circuit Court referred that issue
to a master. The decision upon the issue was adverse to the
contention of the plaintiff, and we cannot say that it was not
sustained by the evidence and the presumptions which must be
conceded to the report of a master and the judgment of the
lower court. The defendant was competent to convey its
property to the Castner Electrolytic Alkali Company, and
afterwards make the locality of its own business Providence
and Saltville. Whether the transfer to the latter company
was fraudulent we certainly cannot decide from this record,
and the by-law, which provided for a monthly meeting in New
York, could not of itself keep the corporation in New York.
The testimony is positive that no business of the corporation

OCTOBER TERMT,

1902.

Syllabus.

190 U. S.

was done in New York city after the transfer of the Niagara
Falls plant; that all of the business of the corporation was conducted at Providence, except that of a purely manufacturing
character, which was conducted at Saltville.
The following is an extract from the testimony of the secretary and treasurer:
"The offices of the Mathieson Alkali Works at Providence
conducted all the business of the company except that of a
purely manufacturing character, which was conducted at Saltvile. They keep there the general books of account, the books
of record, the stock books. They had charge of the general
course of the company's affairs and transacted its finances;
collected the money and paid the bills. In fact, attended to
all the business which generally comes under the conduct of a
company's general office. This was done solely at Providence
and nowhere else."
And he further testified that all of the goods of the corporation were sold at Providence. The affidavits filed by the defendants were as positive as the oral testimony. The order of
the Circuit Court is, therefore,
_Aybimed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH{ COMPANY v. MISSOURI ex 'rel. GOTTLIEB.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No 256.

Argued April 21, 1903.-Decided May 18, 1903.

1. In estimating, for purposes of taxation, the value of the property of a
telegraph company situate within a State, it may be regarded not abstractly or strictly locally, but as a part of a system operated in other
States; and the taxing State is not precluded from taxing the property
because it did not create the company or confer a franchise upon it, or
because the company derived rights or priviliges under the act of Congress
of 1866, or because it is engaged in interstate commerce.
Where the highest court of a State has decided that the board of equalization has acted according to the methods prescribed and authorized by

