OCTOBER TERM, 1902.
190 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

announced than the statement that, although there is no power
whatever to tax a particular object, the courts will nevertheless maintain a tax if it only indirectly puts a burden on
the forbidden object or that the tax may be sustained because
in the judgment of a court the degree in which the Constitution
has been violated is not great. Constitutional restrictions are
in my opinion imperative, and ought not to be disregarded because in a particular case it may be the judgment of a court
that the violation is not a very grievous one.
Testing the validity of the tax in this case solely by the extent of the power to tax conferred on the government of the
United States by the Constitution, it follows, as the United
States has no right to directly or indirectly burden a state
governmental agency, that the tax here in question, in my
opinion, cannot be sustained.
I am authorized to say that the CHIEF
TiCE PECKHAm concur in this dissent.

JusTICE

and

MRa.

Jus-

MIFFLIN v. R. H. WHITE COMPANY.
APPEAL FRO3

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 268. Argued April 30, May 1, 1903.-Decided June 1, 1903.

The serial publication of an author's work in a magazine with his consent
and before any steps are taken to secure a copyright is such a publication
as vitiates, under ยง 4 of the act of 1831, the copyright afterwards attemped to be taken out. "Holmes v. Hurst, 174 U. S. 82. Where there is
no evidence that the publishers were the assignees or acted as the agents
of the author for the purpose of taking out copyright, the copyright entry
of a magazine, made by them under the act of 1831, and under the title of
the magazine, will not validate the copyright entry subsequently made
under a different title by the author of a portion of the contents of the
magazine. And see Xififin v. Dutton, post, p. 265.

THIs was a bill in equity by the firm of Houghton, Miffin
& Co., as assignees of the late Oliver Wendell Holmes, against

MIFFLIN v. It. H. WHITE COMPANY.
190 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the R. H. White Company, for a violation of the copyright
upon the "Professor at the Breakfast Table." The work was
published serially during the year 1859, in the Atlantic Monthly
Magazine, at first by Phillips, Sampson & Co., and later by the
firm of Ticknor & Fields. The first ten parts were published
from January to October, 1859, by Phillips, Sampson & Co.
without copyright protection. The remaining two numbers
for the months of November and December, 1859, were entered
for copyright by Ticknor & Fields, whose copyright purported
to cover the entire magazine. After its publication serially had
been completed Dr. Holmes published the entire work in one
volume, containing a proper notice of copyright.
Upon this state of facts the Circuit Court dismissed the bill,
107 Fed. Rep. 708, and upon appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals that court affirmed the decree. 112 Fed. Rep. 1004.
AMl. Samuel J. Elder and .[r. Edmund A. Whitman for
appellants.
YTr. Avdrew Gilhooly for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

That the copyright taken out by the author after the serial
publication of his work in the Atlantic M onthly did not prevent the republication of so much of such serial as had appeared in the magazine prior to December, 1859, and before
any steps taken to obtain a copyright, was settled by this court
in Holmes v. Hurst, 174 U. S. 82, wherein we held that the
appearance of a work in a magazine, by consent of the author,
was such a publication as vitiated the copyright under section
four of the copyright act of 1831. 4 Stat. 436.
The question presented by this case is whether entering for
copyright the last two parts of the "Professor at the Breakfast Table" in the December number of 1859 of the Atlantic
Monthly by Ticknor & Fields, proprietors of the magazine,
was sufficient to save the rights of the author, the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERTM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

having purchased such rights from the executor of the late
Dr. Holmes.
By section one of the act of February, 1831, " the author or
authors of any book or books . . . not printed and published, . . . and the executors, administrators, or legal as-

signs of such person or persons, shall have the sole right and
liberty of printing," etc. By section four, "no person shall be
entitled to the benefit of this act, unless he shall, beforepublication, deposit a printed copy of the title of such book
in the clerk's office of the District Court of the district wherein
the author orpoprietorshall reside," when the clerk is directed
to make a record of the same, in a form prescribed, wherein is
stated the date, the name of the author or proprietor, etc. ; and
by section five, the person entitled to the benefit of the act
shall give information of his copyright, by giving notice on
the title page, or page immediately following, in a prescribed
form. Construing these statutes together, it would seem that
the word "proprietor," in the fourth section, must practically
have the same meaning as "legal assigns" in the first section,
and was designed to give to the legal assignee of any author or
authors the right to take out the copyright in his own name.
There is no evidence in this case, however, that Dr. Holmes,
the author of the " Professor at the Breakfast Table," ever assigned to either of the proprietors of the magazine the authority
to copyright his work. While there is an allegation in the bill,
upon information and belief, that the work-the first ten parts
of which were published by Phillips, Sampson & Co.-was
printed, published and sold by said Phillips, Sampson & Co. "by
and with the consent and authority of the said Oliver Wendell
Holmes, and in accordance with an agreement" made with him
by the said firm, whereby he granted to them the right to print,
publish and sell his work in the said magazine, there is no allegation that either Phillips, Sampson & Co. or their successors,
Ticknor & Fields, were authorized to enter "The Professor at
the Breakfast Table" for copyright, either in their own names,
or in the name of the author; nor does there appear to be any
connection whatever between the copyright taken out by Ticknor & Fields and that subsequently taken out by Dr. Holmes.

MIFFLIN r. R. ff. WRITE COMPANY.
'100 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The entry of the Atlantic Monthly by Ticknor & Fi6lds was
evidently not intended for the protection of the author of each
article therein appearing, but for their own protection, and to
prevent the republication of the December number of the Atlantic Monthly. While, without further explanation, it might,
perhaps, be inferred that the author of a book who places it in the
hands of publishers for publication, might be presumed to intend
to authorize them to obtain a copyright in their own names, Pulte
v. Derby, 5 McLean, 328 ; Beford v. Scrib7e', 144 U. S. 488, 504,
it is apparent that there was no such intention in this case, inasmuch as almost immediately after the publication of the December number of the magazine, Dr. Holmes himself entered
the book under its correct title for copyright. That right was
never assigned until 1895, when it was turned over to the plaintiffs by the executor of the author. Had the copyright been
entered by Ticknor & Fields, as agents of Dr. Holmes, it is possible it might have been sustained, but there is nothing to indicate that Ticknor & Fields Were acting for any one else than
themselves; and there is nothing to show that Dr. Holmes ever
assented to their copyrighting his work. It is impossible to see
how the copyright subsequently obtained by Dr. Holmes can derive any additional support from the fact that Ticknor & Fields
chose to copyright the final chapters of the work in the Atlantic Monthly, since there is nothing to indicate that he even
knew that any such proceeding was contemplated, much less
that he authorized it.
But, even assuming that it was done by his authority, there
is an additional question whether the entry of a book called
the "Atlantic Monthly Magazine," in the name of Ticknor &
Fields, is equivalent to entering a book called "The Professor
at the Breakfast Table," by Oliver Wendell Holmes. The two
entries were in the following form:
1. Entry of "the Atlantic "Monthly" for the month of December, 1859. "Entered according to act of Congress in the
year 1859, by Ticknor & Fields, in the clerk's office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts."
2. Entry of "The Professor at the Breakfast Table." "Entered according to act of Congress in the year 1859, by Oliver

'26.1

6OCTOBEIR 'IrERTIM, 1902.
Opinion of the Court.

190 U. S.

Wendell Holmes, in the clerk's office of the District Court of
the District of Massachusetts."
The object of the notice being to warn the 'public against
the republication of a certain book by a certain author or proprietor, it is difficult to see how a person reading these notices
would understand that they were intended for the protection
of the same work. On their face they would seem to be designed for entirely different purposes. While owing to the great
reputation of the work and the fame of its author, we might
infer in this particular case that no publisher was actually led
to believe that the book copyrighted by Dr. Holmes was not
the same work which had appeared in the Atlantic Monthly,
that would be an unsafe criterion to apply to a work of less
celebrity. It might well be that a book not copyrighted or insufficiently copyrighted by the author might be republished by
another in total ignorance of the fact that it had previously
appeared serially in a copyrighted magazine. It is incorrect
to say that any form of notice is good which calls attention to
the person of whom inquiry can be made and information obtained, since the right being purely statutory, the public may
justly demand that the person claiming a monopoly of publication shall pursue, in substance at least, the statutory method
of securing it. Twmopson v. B'ubbard, 131 U. S. 123. In determining whether a notice of copyright is misleading we are
not bound to look beyond the face of the notice, and inquire
whether under the facts of the particular case, it is reasonable
to suppose an intelligent person could actually have been misled.
With the utmost desire to give a construction to the statute
most liberal to the author, we find it impossible to say that the
entry of a book under one title by the publishers can validate
the entry of another book of a different title by another person.
The decree of the Court of Appeals was correct, and it is
therefore
Affirmed.

